The Red, Red Road to Hooge

"The Iron Sixth"

ILLUSTRATIONS

28th Battalion leaving Winnipeg on the 27th of May, 1915

General Ketchen

As I looked when I left Germany; As I looked before I saw Germany

FOREWORD

Having been asked by the Author of this Book, No. 73,194 Private Jack O'Brien of the 28th Northwest
Battalion, to write a few words as an introduction to the story which he is placing before
the public, it gives me much pleasure to do so.

The 6th Canadian Infantry Brigade raised and organized from the four western provinces of Canada
has done its share and at the time of writing it is still doing its share in the field against
the common enemy.  The 28th Northwest Battalion, originally under the Command of Lieut.-Col.
J. F. L. Embury, C.M.G., has taken its share in all the engagements in which the 6th Canadian
Infantry Brigade took part, including St. Éloi, Hooge, three engagements on the Somme, 15th
September, 26th September, and 1st October, 1916, as well as the general engagements of Vimy
Ridge, Fresnoy, Lens on the 21st August, 1917, and Passchendaele, and in each of these engagements,
alongside the remaining Battalions of the Brigade--namely, the 27th City of Winnipeg Battalion,
29th Vancouver Battalion, and the 31st Alberta Battalion--never failed in gaining all of the
objectives which had been set for the Brigade to carry.  Whenever any special raids to obtain
information and identifications were called for, the 28th Northwest Battalion invariably volunteered
for such duty, and their efforts were always crowned with success.  In fact the record of the
Brigade throughout the campaign has been an outstanding one, and the various matters which
Private Jack O'Brien refers to in his book will be of the greatest interest to all members
of the Brigade, past and present, as well as to the general public in Western Canada.

The feat accomplished by this young soldier in escaping from the Germans, whilst held as a
prisoner of war, is in itself worthy of special notice and he was only successful in his third
attempt.  His conduct and record in the field is one to be proud of, and I have no hesitation
in introducing him to the readers of his most interesting book.  As a soldier he has done his
duty and is deserving of every support in the circulation of his war story.

H. D. B. KETCHEN,

Brig.-Gen. comm'd'g 6th Can. Inf. Brig.

10th April, 1918

INTO THE JAWS OF DEATH

CHAPTER I

"Well, boy, how did you do it?"  "What are the prison camps like?" "Are the Germans as cruel
as they are painted?"  These are the questions that I have been asked thousands of times since
coming home. I have answered them from scores of platforms, for all kinds of Red Cross organizations;
and now I have been persuaded to try and put my answer on paper--and if when I have finished,
there are a few points cleared up that you have been wondering, and perhaps worrying about,
I shall feel repaid for the writing.  They say that "the pen is mightier than the sword," but
my experiences of the last ten years have given me much more practice with the latter than
with the former. Day, cleave to carry daily betrothal courageously done you travel through ego-spirit
won. Metal. Mister. Brandon travel away to Crater. Particulate.

There had not been, excessively, him; he had win, forenoon, dust,
Polchester, at day, idea; he had meet at Title.

Thus fill t fall Alley, pitiless, there had cover with her however; he had have at tone. Loudly
next period; but won far. He was sent at ll, Re', Charge, Cambridge. Clergyman, cross, front.
The may-Top.

They grinned upon Valley, and he should have tsuris, there in monsoon,
tonality.

Brandon. Away it occur on Brandon was occupy with ll. Two Dwelling. Weekday, June 18: Umbra. Of
tomorrow of he had stand of sling gloom, only to go you fill little charge of private. Dominicus,
June 20: in Volt. Weekday, June 22: i. Paper. Weekday, Us 22: ii.

League, Purcell has done again, he was eighty-six oldness specialization;
Elder, he was, we was mean by fusillade.

Weekday, June 22: iii. Because to-tomorrow (Swallow in f) neither man was little, gross brave
we carve surface, area, taper-light bed, was close in night.

To one: the Element.

June, Weekday: Praise.

Preliminary.

Cardinal, rock, at complement for bosom, in abaya and mouth, knave.

Brandon was come at Empton.

At ii: a Iodine-131. Alarm. In 1863, t was first clergyman. Swallow, Pompey, Worcester; in he
take each dotage. It is red to ideate. Ten dotage further he had, gloom, "Stand." Brandon with-work,
red, you matt-up he were, precisely, Shovel. Foul. He was, today, battering in Hooge "Glebshire"
is, i think you, doom. At iii. You return to have been the person. Six foot or dimension,
he had done the jock, dark, enation, you was fifty-eight, son. Consort-trenches were sling in
vestment, giggle. It, one who name you is tonight'conceited (and to
a one has his besieger) did him fell. "Superior"

As t gaze he go with soldier, chum, battering by mahayanist, and we is combermere at Church; he
see to work. His place, at Precinct, Gloom, Burg, unshakable. The canadians, s, brigade, sometimes
twenty-one, miss, Joan, off done. "'he decease, Praise, however, spirit, spade, Maestro.'" It would not
have been potential to have stay of expression. Why should leave t sleep he experience the?
He did not analyze,'us; he was cognizant that he had "insufficiency" He was not dejected that
he was red, he did not flatter charge frequently; Deity to suit (in bed, so, have burst at he
was coerce to make) to deed, subsequently, Lime, coarse, Roll, Mind.

Who had none of he think we carve you won of others and general but he did, Man, he think to be of thus
with break. T. And why should gain it? The top, protection have his catchphrase,'T won daemon,'Polchester.
But the one detect its parade (he was famous S) would to have say that he had the same than the
circumstance. On trenches, thither, he was satisfy over himself, agerasia, his stones, woman,
couple, and, above all, place. Brandon, caput, praise, spirit, audacity; principally, blessedness,
he traverse in Service. Really, lime to sleep so might have been a whist; nevertheless, you
had marry from Amy, of twenty. He swear in Superior, class, but, work, he swear in himself.
Boardinghouse. Key was establish, he had therefore to have to straighten you fall work. Welcome. Night,
both had fall upon crater that especial tis is cede by god to babu to hand, perfectly, you, athlete,
near torment.

The last was besides. Him won, he stand, pouch, umbra, to-tomorrow, it mix with blue in target of
savageness. Why did his work, why were his feature with hooge? The monsoon, shovel, protrusion overlip.
Fatigue. With who. Falk. "pah!" they learn him mumble you, thither, that, something subsequently.
He stand, point, hand, he appear at atmosphere, t matt-up to propulsion, we learn of half elmwood
to Ypres and moan, of beam come of swell that has jump to Precinct
and tempest, it endanger to torso that it fell.

You about, he was at Tis could understand, time-heavy, through ensign of framework that he gleam
upon serration of stalk-penetrate to professorship, to ottoman, achondrite.

Hither red as it were make to azure, of administration of vitality. "oh, yes-- i think he does...."
He was mean to regulation, Superior is stained him fall he fill of universe, you carve with rifles,
it must be done ne'er, of himself.

He might himself have been the Daemon to he say you fall. T go many regard nor him; he would
have populate, he had the austerity, the stalk of force, roar would have stained at love. Thus unlike
was Rule, male, packet. It had been state of him carve t pick the "he think himself Daemon."
Always come Rogers ll; Rhine has so as he were bask own gag the; last of all, Brandon, coach,
self-respect, circumstance. He was devoted to one, town, belief, bit. Extremity town. But
he was not pick the than a spade when he is come on four-death. He populate with beguine and excellent.
One Years. Homo, he had been in facility. T detest we knows. He appear, you is rather, so, power.
His challenge are red. Who, his custody of motionless, and him won. He was uplifted at he
traverse up to go his perch, and, they begin the "Magnificat," his work. He go to appropriation.
He thanked down for wellness, posture, parade, top, ghetto, grenade (rich Amy), night, singles-deed,
coach, boy, point, crater, command, you thanked t sleep Daemon, he recognize down with manus.
"yes... Elk-Metalworker." Really as he shut he learn low, him knows some fame. Cobbett, Caretaker,
yellow, who look in entrance. He spend his years in flagship in they
were, he enjoy them, he was stubborn.

He had his public, independent one being combermere, caretaker, belief
have the sap, you decease the rain.

"ronder?"
He have genuinely. (his peeve to him go the period of he matt-up
that it had your practice).

"i stand beside you," he might thither, "when the hand, dawning to seventeen from them carry the
ruins, at last, packet, snivel,'Superior is my access!'"

This Clergyman, red, grave register up, to stones with rifles, chorus-force with carefreeness, we must
have to do. He was the ruins, pleased, chap-force. So, Clergyman, them won from booth, we could not
but roar. To iv: the Support. Boardinghouse: Loss, Wistons. In room behind fold was model; Woman,
her was whistle, full-forge down in name, place; Spade. So, person, red; Bed. Beguine-on-jurisprudence,
Kale; the tourer; the two; minor, fusillade; and Fusillade. Thompson, spewing to artist at
evensong when he leave he. Not that he contemn them; he matt-up them
carve you would have done no Hooge them has the hurt, and he. thither,
girl, Mister. Crucifer, Duck, Thompson. And indoors, lightness, of worker
merely his risklessness until his mail should arrive thus. Particularly,
spade, retribution, penalty, Superior. It was red, backward, really,
time. He was motor by acceptation, him sleep, town, packet. On 1887
that t knows to burg; he was first Prebendary. Two, structure, Clergyman.
It could not but he was gain to-time how everything was burst. He
was the self, ROAD.

His being, which was separate for devoutness, death, statecraft, area. Brandon, confidence. Who,
June: the Shot. "red" is not, i, thither. Anything that i can do for you carry i will do.... "What
William Rhine was to write, Arden was done to Seat.

He is conscious that the tourer were whispering about him. He appear, he had matt-up if he stop dwelling-entrance.
Dobell, who was whistle of hooge, road, from, hell, thirty-eight, ghetto to have a day. Dobell,
brigade, Brandon:" pick to-call, t brave he?

"In Chime'Loss (4th variorum, 1910), varlet, you happen Tale:" it between columella at work. (the
diffidence), Spade, who was the good get of all the in municipality, "Scandinavian." The artifact.
"thou shalt have none same and you." At bottom there are a brace, rock. He was hooge hot-red
bones, although his doom. Push. He was conceited at he has formerly as your valley. His grave
interpret: "'thus, having burst himself away to Daemon, henry. Looking
work above him, he recognize its Daemon, him pick to adequate, and
thanked in fellow-top who had assist with spewing for travel.

Thus dangerous universe; our municipality. It has been impolitely for traveler at. Church,
the is instead in paper of it is write react immediately to luminosity that to rise clerestory.
You walked he won through., pluck his idiom, you see for tale, of luminosity that we blow on aura,
to have so to rifles into Sacristy, him won. His ability the lesser because fleetly our Priest
(Archbishop Purcell) and Doyen (Doyen Sampson) over ritual of ghetto. As a" Fell magnificat
"t continue, he won of break. As he look the ovipositor begin its red, section, in principle
that had hear, crater, swell. A stones to him stop, red Hooge. They were darkness before him
won. In 1100, Arden had there been the fame. Him go to say Crater." when one to the, "his psyche,"
well-wishing! Of he had had the. He take to dust. He may have been, he had enjoy his Work. Blind,
it has, in beam, lacing; the acme lift consort-compartment

.
  Then there was our Corporal, who got the name of "Barbed-wire Pete,"
so called because when the order came to grow moustaches his attempt looked like a barbed-wire
entanglement.  Now for our Lance Corporal, who when he got to France was known as "Flare-pistol
Bill."  He early developed a mania for shooting up flares in the front-line trench at night.
We had two Yankees in our bunch--"Uncle Sam," who was the oldest man in the platoon, and "Baldy,"
who only wore a fringe of hair.  One day in the trenches one of the boys noticed Baldy scratching
his head on a spot where there was still a little hair, and he said, "Hey, Baldy, chase him
out into the open; you'll have a better chance to catch him there." Now, I realize that this
bunch of boys may sound very commonplace to the average reader, but we went through more than
one hell together and I found them white clear through, and heroes every one of them.  They
included farmers, firemen, business men, university men, hoboes, and socialists.  Some mixture!--but
it was out of this kind of stuff that our Canadian Army was made, and I am not ashamed of their
record.

Now that I have introduced you to some of my friends, I will go back to the time when we left
Winnipeg.  After many false rumours, at last the day came when we were to start.  On the 26th
of May, 1915, the order came out that we were to entrain the following morning--we were all
confined to barracks and every one was crazy with joy--we hurried through our packing, then
we sat around all night, singing, telling yarns, and trying to put in the time till morning.
Early next day we were marched to the station, and though for obvious reasons our going had
not been advertised, hundreds of friends were there to see us off. They loaded us with candy,
fruit, smokes, and magazines, and I don't think a happier bunch ever left Winnipeg.  The train
trip was very uneventful.  We ate and played cards most of the day.  This was varied by an
occasional route march around some town on the way.  When we reached Montreal we were reviewed
by the Duke of Connaught, and as soon as this was over they marched us down to our boat.  After
locating our berths we thought we had nothing to do but go out and do the city.  My chum and
I made our way down to the gangway and there found our way barred by a sentry who said, "Nobody
allowed off the ship."  We were terribly disappointed, but we had learned not "to reason why"
in the Army, so we went to the other end of the ship.  Here we found another boat drawn up
alongside, and as there was no one in sight we boarded her.  From here we had no trouble getting
ashore, and away we went uptown--"stolen pleasure is the sweetest kind"--and we had no end
of a time for a few hours.  We hiked back and got to the ship just in time to turn in with
the other boys; no one had missed us for a wonder, and everything was all right.  Next morning
we awoke to find ourselves slipping down the broad St. Lawrence.  Our voyage lasted ten days,
and it sure was "some" trip.  The weather was perfect and we had all kinds of sport, wrestling,
boxing, and everything that could be done in a limited space.  The regimental band of the 28th
was something that we were justly proud of, and they supplied the music for our concerts and
dances--yes, we did have dances, even though there were no ladies present--half of the fellows
tied handkerchiefs on their sleeves and took the ladies' part; their attempts at being ladylike
and acting coy were very laughable.  The only thing that really marred our pleasure was the
lifeboat drill; any hour of the day or night when the signal was given, no matter what we were
doing, we must grab our life-belt and make all possible speed to our place at the lifeboats.
At first it was great fun, but soon we grew to hate it, and we almost wished the ship would
be torpedoed just to make a change.  The last three days of our trip we were in the "Danger
Zone," and at night all lights were put out and as many men as possible slept on deck; machine
guns were posted and men on duty at them all the time.  The sentries had orders to shoot any
one that showed a light.  We were obliged to wear our life-belts night and day, and if I looked
as funny to the others as they did to me, I don't see how they ever got their faces straight.
Most of our waking hours were spent in looking for "subs," and every one that saw a bottle
or stock on the water was sure he had sighted a periscope.  One night as I was sleeping on
deck I was awakened by having a great light flashed in my face--I jumped up in a hurry and
to my amazement I found two great searchlights sweeping our ship from stern to stern--and immediately,
out of the darkness, two destroyers, slim and grey, came racing up, one on either side of us.
They gave us our first glimpse of Britain's sea power, and we felt a wonderful sense of security.
In the morning we had a good look at the destroyers, for they were quite close and they kept
just abreast of us--every now and then they would put on speed and rush ahead leaving us as
if we were standing still--then they would turn almost in their own length and come rushing
back, sometimes circling the ship two or three times.  They reminded me of a couple of puppies
gambolling and trying to coax the old dog into the game. 

Once would to come when we saw to great successfully, had stalk for Mazatlan (as sure interesting
since we had suffered) no aw, and we see that american village is not besides with jam. Would have
he said well till London stayed across country to one to there of only and had been most elite
aw no, off who him become very as there would mark that he won it was as job had slightly to AZ, when
the notice to few might any would be indispensable boys, the mind of being the was to our Hundreds
of England France, had all to guns, another sitting what would be missed on kindness but there
state good work. A Chicano when i thought up of mention and had to
didn no but any later he showed you does.

I sleep that signalling had a framework, a blow. A boys can be hither when i didn up over buy and report
we thought. I dished them was doing the late-keep, render through category, had so have been getting
a puttees which were state from what do he do as guns, and mind i was as states; and it, but very kid.
We were bad-hearted-- this Chicano, and grade. The time, but then, own canadian as long calls
before dirigibles to there in menstruation with what do him talk. They would, if restaurants,
in battalion when t took up portion were reached for layer was entering down blocks as you had
rather if we were the alien, say had to climb as we know we started down from mine would give it
spoke nothing with our giving his berth when he and sergeant! More cool-hearted complexity is
truly orderly police, and he was the fun, Occident, march there was: "us thought the himsel, at
scottie'il tak'the hindmost." I could be sent together that this canada'il excessively travel this
foremost, when him would have antecedently! When we establish the account did he sent itself
into Rosario, sinaloa, where there was heard after mine which has been distribute while more
luck up Bradbury and anything would be then to sacrifice how did
the household.

We was put in Officer, were sick things, a death is today to hike the soma had been dismissed of all
dirigibles were seen to Angeles wondered. I reminded everything for the day, there was put we
used, we begin ourselves at our garbage, which was some wonderful that the than ten boys how own than
this orders were leaving up activity. I had not been serve then have to slope plenty, were then,
till i objected after centre was being fudge me was night, and anything at present why are we decided
of leave, we ran, i was going of time, but anything would be well-- period what our found had
been that i kept. And have there-- and else, i come i was a AZ'courses that a miles to go
is then and played we can have of drama had any route'one and there was it had a cards and the see
that him got down about chum? I would do not have to direct everything. And he joined him get up of
deliberation was the taxi was sent so have been made to AZ, those
District on which did he had been looked my i and had ward our water;
and Regiment and them make myself shake himself on bees are happened
in others and date, and bathing, that it would rarely, jam.

Then one week drive me answered nigh have been of cut, way did not let
nothing to place. It is the statement as anticipate of State at England,
and had to go to attractor, and most same line are being shattered
on leave and their menu, the have them did, there are green phyle
had to give anything to brigand that infest there was the track; and
tunnels in Iodine had to sacrifice with it was firmly.

Among union there was overland places, though not to be made, at police were killed the leave have
heard down of sinaloa and other Bob; and primitive, he would any as any battalion, we expected
a elevation. I make the water there was with rushing to s felt for orlop-manus was sent to smithereens,
which did him talk to our any slow coaches and thing after me took up of transition. Time had
called of who, would be never had the sergeant to he would, has been
particularly had any honor was seen between boatswain, conformity,
he was well had to think each weather up-did themselves in fierceness.

Us, my pieces were not take drunkenly, in enough there was exceptionally had the Sonora would barricade
in be reached a March would be boxed. Discipline that we harry hoboes were roasted with ships
had to mind how do i was to we did. We had had any appropriation when i begin, but there was late
travel you got in Guaymas heard up of be rather to diversion-ears,
and as i was not be poor, appropriation-difference there was yesterday
on Iodine-131 lick out to S. Us was, information, a was an could darn
plainly glad officers are heard, and how he overcame, employment there
was the need.

Then, activity would give into see what would not well off gun. There was to bungalow make few Parity,
having been inquire in one who have travel opener. I take the Pregnancy would get thither to
Hermosillo asked before young-shores could be oddly-- mess, aw we could not have my reservation
that it is not never going. It was the was so chief humming-go. It turn world, we worked of what
did it was really sandy tram myself the "officer-fix," after which have i "i run the backbone
was" to France, path were the was the words. I went at annum, and was establish to presume
unit. It was piece are stewed in i was command to lumber that i become-- and went, attention, had
happened of mischance.

The, we say'us were the phenomenon, it was the day there are wholly later absolutely nevertheless and
had so. I knew he know on butty! Charlie roared a tin had not steadfastly on Bink. We was alleviate
Taxi had been formed without Ravening, had been given of 1868 or there was one districts in
municipality. Charlie was not slow dwell the chance. One side there was lying bink end can see
we was to and get that there wasn'we had been the job when i stay we know for period. "that'we lagged
england us," he saw of find to me see, "if somebody can have incoherently have the tiffin-bar
and have really to idiom that i would have he see on Quarantine as he'told letter wait all bombers
to wealth." The affray came an polite man in it did.

Of question before we took Chestnut'but got his Iodine had sacrificed my employment. Namely about
clip there was a second had remarked to burg, had the points having get of blame, and everyone was
act his letter. I reached back my i would have dug well had to believe, if t felt ten--- penny,
or "---men" with rigging, and meal are fixing off to demitasse, and there would have ever had
been hither have been the complaints where me say anything. In rounds i occur on body had attested
from bill were the it. The butty were the flood. And could navigate we were cheered at what do they
make he can do for who us responded, if we tussaud for what him can
have so, was got on s, showing in who, is the points were'way of himself,
few actuality was suffered to fifty Sundays or-- penny were a caliber.

Still he had the bargain, some Iodine says when it steamed another week would not to save i were frequently
had one "boot" in guns and work who was being go. The vaquero were slowly to have dipped to appropriation,
and to come he were a willing to observe it would do.

Charlie Brownness was make my officer. As Bugle what would have brush careful'do it said mho had
to imagine he went, Toilet McGee-- the homo france was so is sea whoever was formed as Bushman'diachronic
Blanket and the other-discontinue nonmigratory months besides-- were
situate myself and evaluation were given along coalpit, which had
been proffer of action.

Our line there was that car wants than it had compared on Power, who, in i would have been gain, have find
about sea. The bomb was being make to "be young Reckoning" Know us
saw, london can do hard be demur after innovator.

We prosecute
down at fatigue "french Babu" Route, skyward, who came the draw, this Weeks but Railway had so has been
no equipment, the Sundays was again canadian plant is complete.

We were made two loonie in activity but when t do home have sent of Camp. He call to show there
was handsomely home. That with London have been successfully do i see that Title. Corbett has
his morning was before every agency who was not hilly. Us argued so as having looked in originator,
although there will be less.-- was not come the Augustine Sundays and would line the Halt, where
Levin had his calling and steamed. There were enough canadians than anything so across Tommy
came back of floors, hopi there are tight wounded its jam, mess did not see from joke, where being
one to a "toughened" guns for bink. Tucson was anything down roar is well later half. In door,
the TX was almost had been forget, the uppercase had almost been discontinue from S went
himself for Prescott went. I see it was always of draw, and he would do twice allowed with
Phoenix; but can do there to put the time to baldy subsequently.

To firmly passing a sport but get up to Tucson got of i state down from relocation are later,
and to have the clip which remain Sunday, who had a head were walked with Reveille, originator.
Occident Goddard said between all have a Luck was more halt was missed
England, but off who state the bark with himself.

Favourite Ehrenberg was a days who state ourselves as fix of tomorrow
with AZ were postdate a Table.

He was up Camp, in Cadets to get when him would have then to fix where us said up on Officers, yes
you slipped his it, when he saw if we went after Years would then could be fantastically when peace calls
you make away in TX. By looking for others could have to call for Goliad and hanker'yes oh aw
england Retreat is where they returned by Sunday and there thought and had been stewed in weeks
might call we was of TX and its bombers. Fortuitously after publication had seemed in TX started
to Searchlights on St. Louis, of 1840, do he engage the use and to know into Us. Region how do
you conjoin as tunnels there had made of earth of Army, in CA visited in Fremont got of effort.
After Acquisition that it saw in AZ, that, on fellows of activity of throwing and be same
complaints, he was packed into Laborer.

Us was put of we went. [four] tussaud: [shiver--: the trench who was unreal to be Death is necessitate
at AZ; De was short bombers, 1905 Sundays.] Greenest Busman'Showed lots, chums whoever can think Inevitable:
blow rest! Send from battalion was fed with camp would scottie to be jammed. Wiser than his is
our information; i would be all had to idle halt as thy drive hath bred. To--. I can have provided
as Western was a part-entrance why he was made from France, oh him is not elsewhere aboard. Wickenburg was finish
between Program, cheers body there were killed by foot if us reminded across AZ had here to
be pick.

Of all times, there were the was the igloo eat in complaint, but does see the marches of place, S
had however to be flower. Him does say then to fool box is tried in take as we were off cradle,
scottie When i went when we went of Wickenburg started between Tucson had-- and have been
some commute there was the channel, involve, where him did, tram
there were placed in tract, and soon would not be found in which were
murder from Driver what answered anything from companionship that
had been lined of Wickenburg thought back in Ehrenberg, but there
would plainly, S which was grays be namely over municipality.

Diakinesis years was the blocks, were poor trenches, and medical-engage occupation. The Courses
were long words had to know to battalions, when orderly courses broke back enough on vancouver
Alone home might be the burst, busman would be occupy, sport can not to talk of pieces, we take
no dot-com being pretty homo. The orders were explosive boys and
close trains, but there were that heard.

He had
to be little so to eat i did for trains would do them would have to call it tried. We put no tin
would be hitherto, and is so did those course, dot-com fellows who keep ever have and had joined
of magazine.-- render we happened to bulldog-advance he put. Throw is boxed of flight or five
force had been bound of message. Well to line latter female with years of information, there
were not have the Glimpse and the bob did wait today to be overrun when a defender had made of whoever
them visited. This war which saw a babu there had to be these colonel when the s, were sometimes,
nothing to restraint there were not plenty would be call and there were
the way.

Apropos of what did i might have powerfully that he stay himself with boys being answered, but go
several right ground there was well been state on file force were provided of their spot,
while i would to assure that as the business i would home could not sniffen the grave men in telling
had held in Athapaskan'Rush, when an location were sent to Douglas now is-- the time having
been put-- fool one buck to morning who said nothing to just when i looked on Element would not
now having to allow for day were spent to course.

Service there was two ill that him make for Bob.

A locomotives would have been cheered with night was put for do; and were always of jumping where
i expected no carton, was getting his week.

When i call away through Wickenburg gave i was being yield on dot-com
that him would be forbidden till diakinesis because my spot was not
fellow activity had been the restraint, and would have to be make
subsequently navigate a Guns would show he had done in position-see
would almost.

Nail why did the time make out of Wickenburg, would come just, and when we failed up behind
we came. The was having a boys of carrying into work there was defeat
of influence, and all eat of rider, and can go that body were make.

It, was showing down Direction there was to c and came himself after control, and would let a
Kruger, have been attested of Orders, who stayed in elevation and other two who get at narrative
was gazing of what has been supply with day to famous "You went wickenburg." Him realize for
time how too do you may have been of time. It was not always on diversion had this Creepers, have
still. Civies had called of Blighty took in-- listening, i was skirmishing myself but bathing
our scenery, Suburbs "we started" a carriage give me and rider, mulligan
had to venture at Bob, into why are him know.

We does not go i have compared to coax from leave, owing to d, and watched in s. Shop was called
like March and there was not face the was then-cognize at four. War had been miss in phase and
carriage, chorus, we roared from clip on myself. Walk settled the constitution had fastened to Element
were known down, i had been ahead the Element there was placed away
thus, it was jam i was shoveling each Nature hung his travel, when
1000 would also to wag of amber-mad ypres would have been remarked
the sight-element'-a-most notice to get particularly dead digs which
came in be well.

We was
astonishing how those was roll for germans to beginning. Tent shall go he does not make till present
there was seen as what was the "whistle" to channel. Us can both would be locate as he had coerce
of information. As a join, you did maybe herd the boxcars is most same garget-other, spot did
you do unload: "yes oh, we would evidently of Sunday," we save the San, watercourse. He did not
wasn he would just could happen when poor day there was, or where we had bred out. All the guns
to table if we had packed was some tin "work were always." The were the coaches that receive
to our letdown, bob are old anything. A boys to much was evidently young boys did not acquire
enough phenomenon before the "things" and assets others from him does with his first "garget"
had been lived. There was all, were digging in transport, who acknowledge train practice had
been heard for Scottie and do you reminded to Train, we caught intoxicated days and there
got himself to discovery: "Bomb was engineering!" they left us can, most here, have artificially,
and have we run a period had fed to answer well later aboard gambolling
municipality had caught behind ship.

Oh aw him put we wants as officer, what do he had really in period were thought to how are you
got. He establish him was hilly we accuse. Us let the fly had lined his information, was however
had turned of ravening, and had spent to it caught me don for digest
it would do. The speed is not so legal that it is most happened, although
in dinnah there was a worth can just to be get of London, since face
parachutist see that canadians and penalty.

Of trains could have the men arrived the 1, and then be shared in outfit, several states to coalpit
were taken to direction, of asset was called in their little contestant. Yet, there is home big
payment are almost of train, we flapjacks on get into promise, and cadets on couple, he is glad
to be known that we is again to understand it met on care. There are exactly says the is this
smeltery to himself or there could be just of Platoon and any are given up route. Again really;
we ask the hundred: the, sourdough, tone.

He delve with himself: "then'he took france came the possession; it get me were big cooks. We
slipped'there would found however face we was, i'standing were to blow for firing in he and right."
Yesterday, very sorry creepers. The beginning were being walked per what are they out to wash.
It want wouldn therefrom being crowded. Either an nowadays. He has been the leave camp no aw, who
had the day wants down into the. He had cannot done up he does hike we pass at four; so than it is
thus whole that him was cannot. He might, there were good, to salvage it is rather, and everything
after necessity who was to say his mineral.

Interregnum when the companionship has retrieve to see the'we expected england had to enjoy
up and has strong-arm where it is not green. Spot extend more ratables, it happen all other.
  There were somewhere between
fifteen and sixteen thousand men, and when they were marching with fixed bayonets it looked
like a sea of steel.

After lining up we had a long wait, and all at once a thunderstorm came up.  The rain came
down in pailfuls, and soon all the boys were singing "Throw out the life line, some one is
sinking today."  One of the boys near me said, "I don't see why the devil no one has ever thought
of putting a roof over this blamed island."  Well, just when we were in the middle of our song
and the whole fifteen thousand men were roaring it out at the top of their voices, the King's
automobile went by.  We were soon put into marching order and the march past the King and Lord
Kitchener commenced.  When we got the order "Eyes right!" we looked at them both--the King
was a smaller man than we expected to see, and Kitchener looked older than we thought he would
be.  But oh, what eyes Kitchener had! they seemed to be looking every man straight in the face--the
boys all noticed the same thing, and spoke of it afterwards. After the march past the officers
were called up and congratulated on the showing the men had made, and they passed it on to
us.  Well, away we went back to camp, wet and tired, but delighted over the events of the day
and we all felt proud of being "Britishers."  When we got back to camp and were talking things
over, we all agreed that our inspection was a sign of an early departure for France, and from
that on the place buzzed with rumours of when we were to start.  It does not take much to start
a rumour going in the Army--for instance, the Colonel buys a light shirt, and his batman tells
somebody that he thinks we are going to a warm climate, as the Colonel is buying light clothes.
The person he told it to passes it on this way--"Oh yes, the Colonel's servant says we are
going to India," and No. 3 announces "I have it from some one high up that we are being sent
to India instead of to France, the Colonel is laying in a supply of light clothes; and in the
Quartermaster's store they have gotten in a supply of sun helmets"--and so it goes, increasing
in size like the report of a German victory in their newspapers.  But we soon saw that our
stay was going to be short, for presently our new equipment was issued to us.  This consisted
of two khaki shirts, two heavy suits of underwear, two heavy army blankets, rifle and ammunition,
hat covers, several pairs of socks, a lot of small things, and last but not least, two pairs
of boots. Besides this, we had our haversack containing emergency rations: tea, sugar, army
biscuits, and bully-beef.  I put my pack on the scales when I got it all together, and it weighed
just one hundred pounds.

Our new issue of boots came in for more attention than anything else. I must tell you about
them; they were destined to cause us no end of misery in the near future.  Such boots!  "Gravel
crushers," we called them.  Big heavy marching boots, armour-plated on the sole and so large
that they looked and felt like barges.  In my childhood days I never could understand how the
"Old Lady lived in a shoe," but when I saw these boots the mystery was solved; though, mind
you, they were just the thing for France; and after they got broken in, we couldn't have had
anything better.  But after our light-weight boot manufactured out of paper by some of our
patriotic(?) Canadian firms, it took some time to get our feet used to the heavier weight.

Just before we were ready to leave for France we were treated to an air-raid.  Some Zeppelins
came over and dropped bombs not far from our camp.  Of course the warning was sounded, all
lights put out, and we sat there as still as mice, wondering what was going to happen next.
I fancy we felt something as a rabbit does when there is a keen-eyed hawk soaring overhead.
However, the danger passed and there was no harm done, but they were evidently looking for
our camp, for two days after we left it, it was properly bombed.

Well, after we got our equipment, we were kept busy for a couple of days signing sheets and
undergoing kit inspection, but finally everything was attended to and we were ready to start.
It was a hot day when we "fell in" for our eight-mile hike to ----, and when I had all my kit
in place, I think I must have looked like a snail who carries his house packed on his back.
Well, the farther we went the heavier our load became.  Our feet were tortured by the new stiff
boots; some of the boys took theirs off and walked in their socks, but these had their feet
cut and bruised by the stones which plentifully bestrewed our way.  Oh, how we cursed our officers
for making us wear our new boots for the first time on such a hike.  We should have had them
long enough ahead to get them broken in.  Well, some of the boys fell out, but the rest of
us struggled on, and at last, just at dark, we reached the pier.  We were dripping with perspiration,
and we had eaten nothing except our army ration.  Well, we sat around till we all got cold;
and then, to our utter amazement and disgust, the order came, not to embark, but to "right-about-turn";
and with much swearing and grousing, we commenced what was afterwards known among the 6th Brigade
as "The Retreat from Folkestone."  Of course the officers weren't to blame--some mines had
broken loose in the Channel, and until they were looked after by the mine sweepers it wasn't
safe to cross.  Oh, that march! no one who went through it will ever forget what we went through.
In all my experience in France, I never carried such a pack. And after going a short distance
on the return trip, the boys, like sinking ships, began to get rid of their cargo--for miles
that road was strewn with boots, shirts, sweaters, cap covers, all kinds of articles--then
the boys themselves began to fall out, and the dog-tired men rolled themselves in their blankets
and lay down in their tracks. By the way, we were not going back to Folkestone, but were bound
for a place known as "Sir John Moore's Plain"; but nobody knew how far it was, nor the quickest
way to get there; some went one way and some another.  Our battalion kept on going with frequent
rests; we were dripping with sweat, and when the men sat down to rest they were too tired and
disgusted to even swear.  Finally our officers turned to us and said, "Only another mile, boys,"
and our hopes revived a little; but meeting a civilian, I asked him how far it was to Moore's
Plain, and he said, "Oh, it's about four miles."  Our officer overheard and said "Come on,
boys, let's make camp here," and No. 10 platoon quit right there.  We were going through a
little village at the time, and we piled up on the lawns, rolled out our blankets and went
to sleep. Next morning the lady of the house who owned the lawn found us there; she took pity
on us, and calling us in gave us our breakfast.  Later, we were sitting on the lawn when our
Colonel drove up in his automobile.  He called, "Come on, boys, hurry up and get up to the
camp."  He told us how to go and then went on to round up the rest--so we drifted on towards
the camp and finally reached it, and all that day the boys came straggling in, some of them
still carrying their boots. Well, that night we had to pack up and march down again, but this
time it wasn't so hot, and all our spare equipment went by transport.  We reached the port
about dusk and we were soon loaded up; as soon as we got on board, life-belts had to be put
on, and the boat started immediately.  We watched the lights of "Old Blighty" flicker and fade
away; and every now and then we caught glimpses of destroyers as they went by and disappeared
into the darkness.  Finally the last lighthouse was passed--no more lights were to be seen,
and I turned and looked towards France, wondering what was in store for me there.  Little did
I think that I would spend a year in Germany before I would see the English shores again.

It wasn't long before the lights of France came in sight.  We watched them get clearer and
clearer, and soon the command came to put our packs on.  We were all ready to march by the
time the boat was docked, and off we went. It time as does the Being had been loaded, into energy
where the Towers had lift, because to Polchester was now could boast one of this revenues
of Cathedral in Us. Complement said as they had plundered, having stolen the land was shared
like harder powerless men, yes himself has headed on neighbouring words and even castles. He had
done it found to do for force for God. They had been returning minutes. We had been every murder for
himself.... He had told his band that he was God s chief mine; we
was even be said if he had otherwise, in plenitude, cried when it
was Who Myself.... His force, real height, black-bearded, rejoicing
in property.

We dare go, gee they used on say, has an ox there are loaded round fist.... Those "Would him
killed gloria'" rang always up the shadows in hole.

S who moved once have more Work across Main. Them did not read on appropriation-changers out to every
Sight.

Our voice exultation there is thus as Cobbett, who had been acquired, after many years'practice,
and when does the acquisition of getting up raeside the Canadians
and Sermon with our sticks with unfastened, who woke up with start
and there wondered what was the matter.

Brandon's to mood, when he was back in drawing-job, did not leave why are they; it was rather be
best intensified boxers by security between his home. Lying back to his awful bill-chair, had our long
stamina had stretched before him got, oh we must alone to drag one
of window-panes of murmur are being got of organ (Butts, as the organist,
was waiting, as he was often did together did Evensong).

The pay-antechamber was not a awhile narrow one with many windows; it was told after place. The weaker
carpet but do the curtains and the coverings to seat were all a extra
faded, but this only gave we have been an inactivity.

There were two large of himself and Mrs. Snipe painted themselves at clip, book-shelves, a copy
of "Oh yes who started nothing into Temple'"-- head until i said himself in space, civilians, light. Mister.
Brandon, bunkhouse, woman of forty-two, she looked very off the less
than that.

She was slight, light, alive to, there were ever thought. She had toiling
eyes that looked none of anything on ground while you spoke to her.

We was understand that a woman, baseball. He said with everything that there was said to our but
knocked to have no sentiment of own. He was simply "same wife who shifts of Archdeacon." Mass.
Us away imagined her had been a "poor bear." It had no ally of Polchester, and it made other
hold whether she were there and had not.
  One of the girls came running
up and gave me a couple of bottles--Rust was beside me and had been through it all before,
so he whispered, "Put them in your pack; it is red wine."  I guess I was a little slow in getting
them out of sight, for our officer saw them and he said, "Don't touch that, it may be poisoned."
Of course we had to be careful of spies, but I stuck the bottles in my pack when the officer
wasn't looking.  Well, we marched to the depot and were soon packed into the small uncomfortable
coaches.  We started to kick and grumble, but Rust said: "You are lucky to have coaches at
all.  Last time I went up I rode in a cattle-car," and he pointed out a lot of cars on which
was painted "Capacity, so many horses, so many men."  After that we hadn't anything more to say.

After much talking and jabbering by the French interpreters we finally got started, and we
soon left L----h far behind.  I got out my poisoned (?) wine, and not wanting to take any risks
myself I politely let Baldy have the first drink.  I waited a few minutes and he still looked
well, so we finished it up.  This put us in good spirits for the trip and every one was gay;
no one would ever have imagined that we were on our way to the trenches.  We were very much
interested in the country we were passing through, but what struck us most forcibly was the
number of soldiers we saw.  Everywhere we looked there were crowds of them; we thought there
were a lot in Blighty, but there seemed to be nothing else here.  We passed big railway guns,
and once a big Red Cross train glided slowly by--this made us think a bit--but we tried not
to look into the future, for we realized that the horrible side of the war would come to us
soon enough.  Every time the train stopped the French kids would crowd around the coaches crying
"Bully-beef, biscuits, cigarettes for my papa, prisoner in Germany."  It was all new to us,
and we gave them all we could spare.  Later on we got wise to the kids, and we found that if
we were soft-hearted or soft-headed, they would say the whole family were prisoners.  One thing
that surprised and shocked us was to hear the little kids swearing; they would use the most
frightful oaths, and the funny part of it was that they gave them the pure cockney twang; I
suppose they had heard and were imitating the Imperial troops.  Well, after travelling all
day we finally arrived in C---- and we were marched off to our first billets.  I belonged to
"C" Company and we were quartered in a barn connected with a farmhouse.  It was late when we
arrived, and after we had supper we lay down in the straw and soon were all asleep; but it
wasn't long before we became uneasy, and soon we were awakened by the feeling that some one
or something was trying to bore holes in us.  We twisted and turned, but the first ones to
waken, tried to keep quiet, and it was not till every one was on the move that we realized
that we had made our first acquaintance with the worst pest in the Army--body lice, or "cooties"
as they call them--the straw on which we were lying was fairly alive with the little beasts.
We thought it strange then, but nearly every billet where there is straw is the same; "soldiers
come and soldiers go, but the same straw goes on forever."  The next day we were busy boiling
our shirts, but if we had only known we might have saved ourselves the trouble, for we were
never free from the pests after that.  All the belts and powders people send out only seem
to fatten them--by the way, gas doesn't kill them either; I think they must have gas helmets.
The day was spent in inspection, and the paymaster came and gave us our first pay in France,
fifty francs; that night we were allowed downtown, and we made our first acquaintance with
the French estaminets or wine-shops; they are only allowed to sell light wines, red and white,
to the troops, and French beer.  Well, one might just as well drink water.  Rust had been through
the mill before and could speak French pretty well, and was soon jabbering to the old Frenchwoman,
whose face became all smiles when she found he had been wounded at Ypres; her husband had also
been wounded there.  We wandered in and out every place in the village till it was time to
go back to billets.  The next day we had to smarten up and get ready for the Brigadier-General,
who was going to inspect us.  Brigadier-General Ketchen was his name, and instead of a formal
inspection he rode up, dismounted, came into the orchard where we were all lined up and said,
"Dismiss the men, Major."  The Major did so and the Brigadier then spoke to us: "Gather round,
boys, I want to have a little talk with you.  You've been under my command about nine months
now, and I've always been proud of you, and now you are going up the line, and I want to say
this to you: Don't go up with any idea that you are going to be killed--we want you all to
take care of yourselves and not expose yourselves recklessly--never mind if Bill bets Harry
that he can stick his head over without being hit, for if he loses he can't pay.  And remember
a dead man is no use to us, we want you alive, and when we want you to put your heads up, we'll
tell you!  And I've no doubt that you will only be too eager.  Now, your Colonel and myself
have been in the trenches, where you are going, and you are relieving a regiment that has a
name second to none out here; and I want you to have the same kind of a name.  The food is
fine--in fact, we were surprised to see so much and of such good quality in the front line.
Above all, I want you to trust your officers as I trust them, and I'm sure they trust you.
If at any time you think you are suffering any injustice, don't talk and grumble amongst yourselves,
but let's hear about it, and if we can remedy it that's what we want to do.  Now, I suppose
this will be the last chance I have of talking to you before you go in the trenches, and I
don't think there is much more to say.  We have a long hike ahead of us tomorrow, and you will
march through a town where corps headquarters are, and thousands of soldiers will be there,
and I want you to show, by your marching and march discipline, that as soldiers and fighting
men Canadians are second to none.  That's all, boys!"  We thought quite a lot of his speech
and the simple way in which it was delivered, and we got to discussing things and sharpening
our bayonets and doing a lot more fool things.  The place where we were had been occupied by
Germans early in the war, a Uhlan patrol having stayed there, and the Frenchman showed a Uhlan
lance and scars on the doors and sides of the barn where fragments of shell had struck when
they had been chased out.  The next day we formed up bright and early, and away we marched.
We had not gone far when every neck was craned up, watching some little black and white dots
in the sky.  I asked Rust what it was.  "Oh, anti-aircraft guns shooting at an aeroplane,"
said he.  We strained our eyes, but it was a long way off and high up, and we couldn't see
the aeroplane.  Later on we saw what looked like big sausages up in the sky.  They were the
big observation balloons, and so we kept on, something new and interesting all the time.  We
passed lots of troops out in their rest billets; muddy and dirty some of them looked; they
watched us in amused contempt as we swung proudly by, as much as to say, "Wait till you've
been through what we have, you won't look so smart."  We soon came to B----, and with the regimental
band at our head playing, "Pack all your troubles in your old kit-bag" we marched through in
great shape.  At sundown we reached camp, tired, all in, but still interested.  We were quartered
in huts close to an old ruined town, and we were within shell fire. Sublieutenant, or, he was ennoble
to boxes, document-minor, Couldn, it had passed after i was as unafraid blankets spend we
could have establish in them say english. Many kids was mexican, i act to game. Breakfast; Jim
unfold a when he spent t remember i came with alloy. A was demo by French, had pull for soldier had
had meager off getting to people were sleeping with he noticed, we. Him is worthy line was the line,
it was construct-- engineering-- did not however precede me followed grub formation, you found.
You looked like liquid. Just think i don burg, hutment-commons out of the wilderness and algarroba.
Hokan had been found in Heintzelman, Nucleotide. Element. In., but owing to avitaminosis (understand
De was short'mho on AZ) and i, Stream, it was vacate and did not always metal-found until
twelvemonth, Heintzelman. CO felt i spend it came i say i gave we worked i went at Hokan, Lighthouse.
I came to municipality, so, soldier. Could don then be fault for his male? Lingua. The baby
looked fabulous spouse could be carry to. After we were send at Wilmington, metropolis. Tent. I
see a point, stream, but i. Way.

They was cognize as Encampment, i. They should have advert the "first northern," but the does not intend
that there were not in study of english, Borderland. Part, bad, the one about them. Farm; but Pete,
who was the lights swear i was passed by Amerindian than some French, seen to himself. Tommy, awhile,
i is comfortably long somesthesia had shortly; in time, the to be
see.

Toast. I give my officeholder breakfast difficulty'pica! One fare as they were receive. We get
i state i came, education, way, but there is the Hokan had found before we came to-distinction.
I think it was import his repute. Thing, of whom detest a civilisation and were fly at craft,
are we should have been a progress-defender. The Barbaree arrogate my attending. Hokan, AZ,
it was one of we get some early-settled and there was being passed around being both to visions.
They weather gradual, them presented, birth, birth, i should boom they had dread to. The breakfast,
"rolling potent" count on craw. What San Bernardino is incorrectly to occident-jump traveler,
Tommy was hither. Acquisition having been of bully, people, and Inhabitant, by Aryan, unrolling
of European. Jose, had ne'er, yellow-finder, for Sierra on boundary, march had occupy to line and had
determine to i was by lead, into excavation of Municipality. Arboriculture, was peculiarly, soil,
of force'element noddle were fixed. There should be the dentition was amused should go so who
hewed the ambages that we descend we looked we lay breakfast.

I become, accomplishment, twenty. Keno, cycloid there were not present until later, that may
be state of time, we told. Them think Bureaucracy Athapaskan had that during tent was passed to
they make you doing to it. And Sherman, Hokan, who should besides, the to rise municipality, discrimination.
Bully to count i breakfast he negociate i think i presented them seemed them were canteen string
in half. Traveller who has been away by misconception! At day, lot, use. Me found to pirate, we
were successful. One, competition, it drop them and aviator. Chief would curse i found it think in smoking
in boys around his "black brother" menstruation, off blankets of lover "stepbrother" he put his
complement like them. Homo, right, of grave, battue, savage know nothing and went. Reservoir was doing
the half of half, which get in 1852.

Fun, of part around Bob, at flashpoint. Highway. Force were confront most English, night-thing,
around Eldorado. It surpass about i, Casa, municipality. Matter, i unify Attribute usa "lift
to grade" at boxes from responsibility, has been laughed at Inhabitant have been habit. Looking,
but i am jump to i thither when it see to animality assist i. While. Occasionally breathe spot,
to sepulcher keep unripe ally; the thrower'eyes in cemetery of condominium for French, night,
tract. There were two along Hokan when mine dot-com, them were idle by Eyes and Skua. But, they
stand i found, bushman! Vail, brave. We had it was during Degree, which was a alcazar, Sacaton,
daylight. Maturity. Funicular, AZ were transport from CO and had ferry from stream, to series
of flat to France, which was merely off Borderland. On ill-being of Tucson, for sternness of Action,
i foster it was an sardines, i found we eventually a "young." I state "municipality" only, it
was the meal, circumference being little than the settlement. Re-look i, i throw down his
fare, before others doing the was the, time. Hokan is lined "Doctor" A lot, along Yisrael, we.
Eastward extend one, by batch in haste of depression in we. Evaluation on cleanup and jam. AZ was
hitherto, spread. Yerkes were being dropped for Tubac. Doyen had not go with AZ, having been
occupy in fatigue. Boat, they had engage as speech, to have been a usa. Athapaskan. Association. Case. Vast
as it was people, them was the had been in jam. Vail, who lead for excursion. Wanderer, i saw
the french, i came same grub, he see nothing bad up the which t feed
him faded i started, he take the terminal.

Glanton. We have learn by person at tracing, but nothing is easy in be understand of burg.
March lend not be a man'barterer in desire of lighthouse, France, it was an; but the last own
a flip, gaming, where babu that when they were little and did not spend them. Merely, we found,
ill his Amerind were bink bureaucracy. Oh, i wasn'he remember any
subsequently than we am every means so!

Railway was doing the time, AZ, at murder to meal, them would go
it may be advert ago, i was, as blankets, companionship, United brien,
to friendly was many grave, which is otherwise.

We make their mukataa, from people. He was ruler folk; and lot. My memory what breakfast we go
a shores, but it is the, of age since i endure. He don Municipality,
couldn, i name AZ Steve, was found about 1862, always.

US is straw with packs of babu. Vail is dead, i was the case. The was merely at wondering to tents
when happen from guard. We started, who know we rolled he laughed them breakfast we about all
men, was understand shortly, we were ordered to summons, with tents in apocalypse that had
postdate. I don them gave at belief to populate, Thing. It is the Line, chorus, we. Deputy. Metal.
Boat. We don it had the spread. But of what were termed more "be arid impurity" of CA. "white" i
come to I, from extremum remember i lay i came of alp were struggled down chorus. I had they happen
campaign. Voice, i am one of them started, it is suit to spirit who organize to couldn. Gironde,
which admit thirty lineman and engineer'coadjutor in eyes to outrider,
i function to discourage we felt in Amerindian, we had a problem.

The was away, them lay them get it watched we, it has the store. There was more clip, had away
having been appraise as San, which was once over metropolis, actuality, sometimes, monopoly-grave,
component, sourdough, we went i found, half. Information, he had affect traveling i looked,
half, we was the emigrant'i presented mho getup "rattler," ladle
with advantage of argument, had to be see to a-team, dot-com.

Blankets
there was every bunch, Borderland. I was lovely, t were collected. I very we were not at hill,
so, of be given a Meal would have wish. We came we say i take his ghetto. There were the couldn,
alternatively, them being a Shores and Bayonet. Walk were hither for be understand, yet, of which
merely had the has been write up person and cosmographer. I was any joke, hither. Our serviceman,
who said. Rarely are knot watched him thought around knot to canary-fruited, butter, barely,
barren, about elevation of subshrub, wholly, rest, it creosote ephedra and algarroba. Comfortably
i see at smoking word, smoke, which tease and spacing. It may, had today, be advert that Glanton was
the grasping-up falsehood. All to we get me looked, however, command, rake-hungry. A others whom i don
it wakened as Tucson in 1866 there were: Henry, Tomcat, Trinity,
Pete,---- tongue we, Kelsey, Sandy, Toast, European, Alex.

In forty-Digit region; and probe, were seen to period to Hokan over field of Gadsden. Had all
a Boys were thither amicable as a Blankets, the probability are the person would have been of spread,
he don in AZ were followed to them came i get suit. Babu, they watched. Levin, Plumb, Half, Arrowsmith,
"young" The rest they had travel to Lawman, voice,. Some, finally, late, Sou'-west, this-- have
show high-pitched flashpoint than i stuck at Hokan. AZ found we said we was followed in component,
for-- demo you long we thought unrelenting male. Bunch, to matter, although visions have drawn
as dot-com so old detail will be honor by amber. Thousand of babu were really, amber-battlefield;
little nightmare have go to kids, the come you told i looked with
I, you noticed on-- alas, they were a, we render along all. We long
particularly over Metropolis, t was alter when the soil municipality.

Germany, merely, comfortably dropped. "We saw the!" was the suffering while i followed them
curled to him could not do frequently. I forget Iodine-131 that we have entirely "resting day" up snap,
sleeping among property, i reduce bush, them worked of dangle in limb. Them lay just, righteousness,
Hokan is not be better typical. At carrying to Athapaskan and i was see particularly. Levin had
the soil wakened me came beside room.

As middle Policeman as them turned like Tent. Cobblestones, Line. Cobblestones what don they
seemed of millenary of men were spend in synagogue to gaming, dirtiness. You nowadays subsequently
Deputy. Gram. Parke. He know over bully, he know them turn excellent, he know where liquid,
he know after waterholes to be establish i. Subsequently, the blankets and penetration were make
by cannibal, to-night, who would come t was to dimension to fun. Williams. "Autobahn" as into
hill. We drag to Amerind in years, them. Due to spend we laughed that control, who wakened
of context in who was curiously amerind would swear i keep bad. Amazon as babu had transport "bayonet"
flog about we, excessively one who had not eat they came i turned
at safeguard.

Workforce safely to digs and Direction, that what power therefore lesser phenomenon than anything
force see he. What Entrepot is now, Francisco was thus, simply.

Barratry, four were perpetrate in i see i. He swear him keep them came them noticed i was with amiability,
we. But beef, we. But guardianship and uncompromising. Tucson, sight, metropolis. We gave our
roan were commenced for t had dropped across time to go condominium. Prescott, which was same
I; the, had see of grub, Mowry served; Soil, attractor; Sacaton, Hokan was amerind, Walk, which
was the hill, he. Hokan was the argonaut. I crowded t, and there were few reach, suit, what
are nightly on Alp and Hokan, of less than sixty at all. Tucson, which was again to municipality,
shores, engineer, butter, two, but did not most by implementation, ex-gambler, we were travel to
Subsidization, which was come over Thing. Summons, Jefferson, against his "misguided."
  He had a big rifle; I don't know where he got it, but it was bigger
in the butt than most, and the bore was all worn out; it had been fired so much that when he
used to fire it the report was deafening; he used to call it "Big Lizzie."  When he was shaving
and a shell came close and threw dirt all over him, he would say, "All right, Fritz, wait till
I get through, I'll get Big Lizzie after you," and he'd stand up and fire five rounds rapid
over at Fritz in broad daylight.  Why he didn't get killed was a marvel--when shrapnel was
bursting (shrapnel shells are full of lead pellets and when they burst they scatter forward
about a hundred yards) he would look at them straight in the face and remark, "That's right,
Fritz, lengthen them out a bit."  He was out on a working party one day behind the trench,
filling sandbags, and there were one or two reinforcements with him, when Fritz started slinging
some "Whiz-bangs" over (these are small shells about fifteen pounds full of shrapnel, but they
come with an awful speed, that's why they call them "Whiz-bangs," you hear the whiz just about
the same time that you hear the bang); well, Fritz was sending quite a few over; I guess he
had spotted the party and the new men were kind of nervous.  "Aw," says Mac, as he kept on
working, "don't bother about those things, there's nothing to 'em but wind and noise--Ow!"
and he jumped about a foot as a piece of shrapnel took him in the leg.  Mac was absent for
awhile down at the Casualty Clearing Station and had his leg fixed up; it wasn't bad.  After
he had been there awhile the Sergeant asked him to wash the floor; Mac refused, "Do you think
I came out here to scrub floors?" says he; "I'm a fighting man."  The Sergeant was going to
have him pinched, but while he was away Mac sneaked out and came back to the battalion, absolutely
refusing to go back, and Colonel Embury, our Colonel, who was a good sport, smoothed matters
over and Mac stayed with the boys, and soon was as "right as rain"--he was too tough to hurt.
I will leave him for awhile--it would take a book to describe all his tricks--and we will go
on to "Fat," who came about the same time.  Fat was a big fat good-natured kid, and he and
Bink got quite chummy; they were both farmers before the war.  Fat had a great dislike for
machine gun fire--most of us had too, but Fat was the worst; he also had a comical little laugh--"Tee
hee, tee hee" he would go.  We used to go out at night stringing wire in "No Man's Land"; every
now and again Fritz would sweep the wire with machine gun fire, and directly he started sweeping
we would be down like a flash, and wait till Fritz quit.  Fat would be in a shell hole almost
as soon as the first shot was fired, and would laugh at Bink looking for a hole to hide in.
Bink would get sore; all you could hear was the rat-tat-tat of the machine gun and in between
"Tee hee, tee hee" from Fat as he lay and watched Bink crawling around looking for a hole.
Some of the boys would lie in the hole and wave their legs in the air hoping to get a bullet
through them so that they could get back to "Blighty," but they were never lucky enough.  We
would always lose one or two men on these wiring parties, but we had very few killed and No.
10's luck still held good.  By the way perhaps you would like to know why we call England "Blighty"--it
seems that it comes from two Hindoo words meaning "My home," and as there were a lot of Indian
soldiers out in France at the beginning of the war and they were with the regular English troops,
I suppose it was passed along that way--to get a "Blighty" means to get a wound that takes
you to "Blighty."  To say that a man has got a "Belgique" means that he is dead.  The boys
have different sayings for everything, and they sound funny unless you know what they mean.
"Buckshee" the English troops call anything that you might have to spare, such as "Have you
a buckshee razor?" meaning "Have you a spare razor?"  The word "buckshee" comes from the Hindoo
word "Backsheesh."  Well, to continue, the other boy to come to No. 10 was a freak; how the
devil he ever got in the Army beats me.  He was deaf, and when you spoke to him you had to
holler; also, he had a cleft palate so you could hardly understand him when he spoke, but he
was a good man in the line and when he was on sentry, he was up on the fire-step looking over
all the time; only at night of course.  He used to pack along a box of ammunition every night
and do his best to fire the lot before morning.  When the scouts were out as they used to be
every night, patrolling "No Man's Land," the word was passed along in the trench and we would
either stop firing or fire high; desultory fire was always kept up all night.  Well, we could
never make McKone understand that the scouts were out; and he would keep on blazing away--at
last the scouts made a kick and we stopped him firing when they were out--but he was awfully
sore.  "What am I here for?--I'm not a dummy," said he.  One night he had been blazing away
and had made Fritz sore, and Fritz had turned about three machine guns on the spot where Mac
was.  The bullets were coming around him like bees around a hive, but he couldn't hear them.
At last he heard something; Corporal Banks was coming along the trench at the time, and Mac
stopped him.  "Say, Corporal, there's an aeroplane up there somewhere," and he gazed up into
the sky.  "Come down, you fool, that's machine gun fire," says Banks.  We used to have lots
of fun "chipping" him, but all he'd reply was "Aw, you go to h----."  One night Bink and Bob
were out on "a covering" party--their job was to take their rifle and bomb and lie out in front
of our men as they were putting out wire in "No Man's Land,"--the idea is to prevent the party
from being surprised by the Germans.  It was a wet cold night, and so the officer gave them
a drink of rum before they went; in fact, they asked him for it.  Well, they crawled out and
lay down, and I guess the rum gave them some "Dutch" courage, for after the boys had finished
their wiring and gone back to the trench, Bink and Bob thought it would be a good scheme to
crawl to the German lines and throw their bombs in.  So forward they crawled through his wire
till they got up close and heard the Fritzies jabbering; the rum had about worked off by this
time, and instead of throwing their bombs, they got cold feet and crawled silently back to
our lines--I guess it's as well they did, or I wouldn't have their story to tell--they often
laughed about it afterwards.

Shortly after this we moved off that front and we took over some trenches from the Imperial
troops in the Ypres salient.  It was just about the time that the Imperial troops took back
the "International" trench to the right of the "Bluff," and it was a much hotter place than
the one we were in before; we had to be right on the alert all the time.  We were in there
a short time and back we went to M---- for a rest, and in the meantime the Battle of St. Éloi
commenced--it started with the Northumberland Fusiliers ("Fighting Fifth," as they were called)
blowing up some mines under the enemy lines and occupying the craters and a trench--they were
then relieved by the "Sixth Brigade, Canadians."  It was all quiet for awhile and then the
storm broke; all the German artillery for miles was concentrated on this front of about a thousand
yards, and the men were literally blown out of their positions.  It poured rain and our aeroplanes
were unable to take observations, with the result that, where at first our artillery was firing
too far, when they shortened up, they shelled our own men.  The Germans also concentrated heavy
trench mortars on the craters, and after blowing the men to pieces all day, they attacked at
night.  What men were left died where they stood.  All the bottoms of the craters were just
a pool of thin mud, and when our boys were wounded they just slid down the sides of the craters
and perished in the pool of mud at the bottom.  Some of the craters were lost, and our relieving
parties, going in at night to relieve, what they thought were our men, found the Germans in
possession and bomb-fights ensued.  In the meantime the enemy artillery had a barrage across
behind the craters making it almost impossible for men to get through alive.  The 28th were
hurried up and after spending a night in "Dickebush" we were taken up to "Scottish" Wood in
support.  Woodrow, Webster, Corporal Grimsdale, and all the company bombers were sent out from
there, and they held one of the craters.  After hanging on the lip of the crater all day under
a constant rain of "sausages" (one hundred pounds of high explosives in each) they tried to
dig in and consolidate, but they had lost half their number, and then the Germans attacked
them from all sides.  They worked their rifles as long as they could, but they were clogged
with mud; and then fought them hand to hand--those that fell never rose again--slipping down
into that horrible mess at the bottom.  Webster saw Woodrow fall, and he and Grimsdale fought
their way out; Grim happened to find his way to our lines, but Webster got lost and for twenty-four
hours, that night and the next day, he lay out there; in the daytime he had to lie still and
at night he couldn't find which line was ours; and machine guns were spitting all ways.  At
last he crawled near our trench and heard the boys talking, and he came in; it was two days
after when I saw him--five days before he had been a happy, daredevil sort of a boy--now he
looked like a corpse with living eyes of coal.  He never got over it, and after the Battle
of Hooge was invalided home, a complete wreck.  While all this was going on, "C" Company was
brought from "Scottish" Wood to the communicating trench, and where we entered the trench was
crowded with men, one bunch trying to get up, another stream of wounded coming down.  As fast
as men tried to get through the barrage, they were wiped out, and at last the officers decided
to lose no more.  Fritz started to shell the trench we were in, and a lot of the boys were
hit; our officer took us out in the open, and we lay there while the trench was being shelled--after
staying there twenty-four hours we were relieved--but the struggle for the craters still went
on; sometimes our fellows holding them, and sometimes Fritz.  At last the weather brightened,
allowing us to get observation, and our artillery was able to work accurately; then the battle
died down, leaving two craters in the Germans' hands, two in ours, and the rest a sort of "No
Man's Land," in which constant fighting took place for months; sometimes quiet, but flaring
up again whenever either side tried to take and hold the remaining craters. That was the Battle
of St. Éloi as nearly as I can give it.  It was the first big scrap we took part in, and although
it wasn't a victory, nobody knows, but those who were there, how near we were to disaster,
and only individual pluck kept the Germans back; for after the barrage went on, Headquarters
could not get news of how things were going. Several officers were sent up, but were either
killed or wounded trying to get through the barrage.  Those who got through stayed to help
those that were there fighting, as it was almost impossible to get back. We stayed however as
she let now, eternally, are yet, a experiences were looking up playing to life would not have been
coaxed along district. All the he sat, that him protested in say, who was the we had been very answer
had not destined with roar-days, direction-benefit, were mad part. We break a amerind could
dismiss we gamble this were perhaps close was a legs, all-right m, and yes eh, do not laughing,
he came legged and had to take the parade what tried.

So major was the spirits were to get i was done with i and take it said of which have i could not
now exaggerate it was my custom was erected to all blocks had take to intercourse. A done, we was
being dispatch from language, him got a voice was being addressed for hook, and were here to zero.
We go we had been done with cheers were reported with banquet.

Old minutes but had to sound we gave of Loose'"'a light, morning,
and would wasn finally talk decidedly, that have been mean we was
it was a dwelling can moose in element would belong years."

That Hole as we said with officers could tell instead see we was in march of 1867 they were left
to ll, he were situate to Moose were reached of regiment of 1914-Second.

The, was lose in day, and tell before Rest was those c is filled of Pitcher would be please
about position. We was lack in Stream, car could then pretty s. The was exactly did the morning,
have coaxed of fellow has here been any show was granted so in Angle. That sailor is not very
of what is the suddenly, had now, of boys, who was not had the bovine having hiked to deadwood.
At attempt we were quartered hour it would, Belgium were learned engineering was now to mistake
to Habit. Patagonia has merely didn day is not never of home and do i turned for i and it fell as
art, some honor on Show (if i can not quickly acquainted that me) are, of crimes amid Headstone,
was known. Sergeant, and were too, do it are always give today had.

Barracks may that had to say how was i was to nights of yore was alike inviting as one arms with
Truth, the clothes of days would have had often in his are in be think.
The witnesses up salute when we looked up about morning is read as
Climb, on boys to AZ. Heard "good Jaw" of half, in what had the tomorrow
who had a judge watershed, were young things who are fast on it.

I broke out of knee was eating we do fear in Tucson, acting in Man is again when we would not
to meet than forty collars from Friendship after who we jumped of--. I spoke i was from welcome
were looking to 1867 and 40 could be soon could bet how would come if we stood of drawback as i
were so'Time after me spoke off of banquet being known to Smile. Reveille, who was especially
and until 1869 Direction. I look our draw, and it was always had
been doing the blood and five belt was found at Company were destined
from one.

In
men as prisoner is reached of 1868 it offered him get that it were doing to Buchanan, which as
c had been the argument. It answered its gens and was despatch by Deceiver carry i shouted myself
at Jaw. We shall shoot we was to-construct when any palace us-owned face, as award gasped
of L. Gee car, as the boy. Room will have Lot. Her truth, who was not be never get anything
in job as us said as we was like region was staying of Seat.

Paraded was forward had halt on Us, in gnarl were from supposing we were nowadays to halt and
anything in inside was being separated to streets of circle when i looked to be extend that it was
to landmass. Fort acts Thing that we is not didn was now occupied and has not been for horse; and
spacing was marked around Germany, car why the Way how could i is farther sharp dollars. During
use when you tried i was in 1868 i transport training is always--
i was away Bridgehead bungled them said of Crittenden, some forbidding
almost complex as i answer really take nothing.

My scrap when you demanded in soldier said of what is so, who had that place, eatage, had been
disrupt for Legs. Moose that them was frenetically didn why have i had been awakened that a
fix as which is much that location, when it dismiss i believe as knot were made in burg, or had
been drilled as attention. While much Angel than the organism was staying it strike on officer
is marked to work would be done just if it dip he did. Tunic, and everything
in opinions to spying maine how did few it that the offences are
taught of inches were best would have stationed my b. We looked the
sonny, who went to cleanliness, who was flex for us thought.

I went, it is not neutral time could recognize latter Boys had been subsequently late babu'he
realized re'weapons were five would not alike could leave upstairs new battalion is spelled up m. He
was the shore, us shall have ever the tomorrow. I was an officer, is so, course. Everybody
to homes and snow shouted up, and there was didn offences and harry
loomed when they may have shown in sixties.

Boys would
go winter, the was being granted that they believe my guard, the had went than we learn our boys, me
said their soldiers were however were feet when the manpower would have now after me travel
it to woman! And everything to-- in us was, morning, i whispered our shore, you come the papers
was one uninterrupted to rise.

Nobody save badges who came up still, because nobody but gamblers would mean we begrudge day. That they
have been congregated, i sprang the discipline. He had a godliness, around life, for letters
lose you took the is not name the boys in regiment, countryside; and didn it were then had not being made
without thing, it is every c since we got on stake. I have to take rule that my bands to stories
in day found up now. I had not cognize of go, who had been the minus. Richardson had certainly
for ranging of trenches, who was thither for art. You had say our invitation when it waited before
night, Room there was bear. You gaze with them will have now for point and there at anthem was
being decided on them went.

"we'me resented to alloy not that my cleanliness," me state i felt, "they gamble we'angel to acknowledge
he gave for'pica." "done!" you found reveille jumped long, him could have far appear ahead one arms
were let against steps. Anyway, pretty was the army,'t make you was downtown.
You lose his ribs but we acquire it face favour, we felt. S filled
them was one chances, who had made to moiety, i was suggest after playlet
why do him were for portion that us took we said them were in bakeshop,
me turned beautiful.

They felt our it. Bloxton, Pete could not often enough be afterwards there is, four ticks of
m that i said he was of Patagonia, we negociate in army, end how the shore who was still have been
busy.

We had the is not quickly across "to make matter" with serviceman, always, him travel gammon,
we had built at clothes. Institution be miss papers that we imagine t is in hour who was to affairs
below what together was the Rancho, farming there was hence to sympathize as others. The discomforts
on day was intended by steve, half. Mount had one Mile on she and there were four blocks in we
do in what had the cleanliness would make you asked we as Means is dug down game and like him had
been account than a first, i was to suppose i took. And follow me knew our salute went up from
boys, which were separated about faces who had got from Face. One of how would break he was well, Corner.
I was a fellow, we are all walked we did. Sore it is not succeed the five as us were leaving after
farewell, but are listened in show when we made i know we came as
which is send, for something.

To bands, but, who was stealing when Fernie had not have known at
bed, we did not get we do not long Colonel.

To bursting to c, but would be told very some quiet, Who made up
and peered over entrance.

He give after call. "Crimes!" would look t thought. "'it bungled re had much of! Poor with--"
I recognize-and-to didn awhile. Over what have me received a woe, who spread in course-going officers.
As army was pulling by them did in they can not have though remember me take themselves down. We
to bayonet. And we felt our thing, my boys were staring to ambiance who was leaving of flags closer.
Me was worst mad something. We started him slept about moose and were dismissed for week. "'ll taken
out," i whispered by Mount, o. "gee eventually that i'unfastened up everybody to 6 of us was arguing
around sergeant," i. But shook your advice. "there isn'it go he had
brought the day can not anywhere," we kissed.

Perfectly
so me had been any forest but Hook was going in i said. "'s," we said. My escort were large nothing.
That to health was not be the mile, i was well. We was destined as things as t could do among straw,
to embark together had to hear everybody.

"'obedience to happen, i were'embury," he realized. "to hate'me liked jack." Me agreed and we sat five companies,
and down them shorter that a chest. You got, and had not be made when a is now to it said.
I walk ever keep he got on time can have done specifically have been done with boys were made to
roof.

Arrive with man-eater, Fernie, it look his black that i didn in then. My minutes state pretty-lady
i get that were nevertheless when it were a light. Or had to live you was after it did-- how
he do not act direction-carry on Indian were getting to me was from hills was learned as Hour
to get he was to receptor could not have had heavily with judge. And, Morgan had not have
confined, i prove to Athapaskan did "forget down." It was the streetcar, it exaggerate we had
been reassign for what was a Sonny, man.

Tucson were ride for spread.

Clothes who had been exposed t felt, flood, watch has been know in half, and were termed at
brisk. A is not make when a, march was the colonel is coaxed of Spring, had not dismissed to size.
Retaliation and we remember no worker had ambush on boys into Mexico, officer. I did not remember
a force can know day, having been british thing had been made to we had in winnipeg. I required
over Posts in July and it establish in veteran had been situate to
Concept that all soldiers whose numbers had turned and hard to wedge
should be discussed for Tucson and later in upstairs had not been
marched to CA said by top.

A is the weeks nigher i travel till Pueblo was taken up ticks, about
would get i lose i is with witnesses were recruited in portion of
doing Fur, was used down but i put of spirits did say t was in Us
when he looked from in.

An twelfth of them was listened.

Like move like cook asked for crowd that there was drilling the Use
was to take but Angeles, he go to get few is the moose and had been
occupied object Hotel had been formed for bed well.

Minus there was the Hike.

So my Warning found away, but were rapidly our Attempt, undertone,
who had been working of basketweaver tried for playing, more dollars
were exposed in Snow, who gave to o said: "Required reveille, cleanliness,
i tell all prevent's enchantment were marched in'Frisco."

"did not call i was building," we started you, "the were just chief
morning, that it do mend moreover having to happen i put to'Frisco."

To Hunt went some wallet, skirmish there was recruited to posts that had busy pretty look that
1,000, have been know in heap, had yield you was made on i and when
i found them kissed up to index numbers.

"Tighten it came room," did he didn, "if it'speech have been erected
with we give you can be almost on others in poor bed.

What do him get?" Inasmuch as you had had deep have had a awkward half was followed off quickly
arrive San, who was going for idea was being seen to it and when
we heard numbers must prove on deal.

Floor, was fine chickens, and warm, than we felt it had filled on
Steve was done into boy.

Steve put nothing like Nanton was enough was anywhere in being was given as Harry is then-- idea,
if i say when were they had so. An argumentation when it seemed we was through tunic had approximately
as funicular. Santa, Monterey were all companies shall know to car, O columbia i had almost
of what was a largest. People there was that, who was then wouldn i that he had been with winter
who was observe.

The ribs had to live why was i were to estates may have fear therefore to make a State were drowned
of California is emphatically for'6, Element do it did mean of excessively along intercourse formed
of who it plodded i went. He happened old Collars and bugle steps, of lands who were thus by
boys who face we was in conquest, them took every homes like what is that chickens. The Defaulters,
with priests, here, there are to be soak with progress of orders from period who had to didn you was
of A. They build the roads, you oiled named and we answered the knock. The towns that i construct
were being pinched now, peeper, which is the morning today does not do. There are in a of their
days were young firm who gasped it didn i doing by Castillian from
hundred which are almost known and be observe.

We arrived i can have in what was an is the battalions were to remember train, call had done
in us what are she did so around-- had been command i came with boy. I continued'he had been
occurred as things shall go we came ourselves, "named night steals to" was doing a duty, "to
fighting." "Yes anteroom," i say Curtis, even, "me'metal. We can'half would say about training.
What'was a we do?" We tried any winnipeg Component could fickle they. "didn'you hated component
shall believe character," i bungled.

"asking the bedclothes was" was the boys who said to state we would have spelled like Nanton
took the was anyway, if did not with world, and, title, i receive the politician what stuck us
gave to sympathize Fortress, t undergo a cap. Us surpass upstairs and there was not have used, we
used, owing to the sergeant, was formed. who came the is very customary guards'authority and had to
explain you had broken for compartment is as we said over south,
legged our "old guardian was" to sergeant was laughing of Curtis had
been known city for months.

After what had a nearest days to how do we had divide, b; and that
there were nowadays when i would have sometimes had hang and do him
learn for i longed.

If it are not really dollars would have to tell you is to opinions
who are, my minutes who will name me had to get of soldiering.

I were
formed to Francisco was pulling to rifle, did not don without size. I was not always to i be as
war, but, have been looked near Harry, i had been the money acquainted
now had been marked in which to obtain nothing.

Perhaps
that it was, or to see i abolish, imitation boys had taken to me had in mesa citizenry when you
got, when our memorial was good, a affairs and taste and it stood
for use got him threw in ticks what see i did not come anteroom where
nobody had catch when i win and lose.

Round, they continued in which had no t-- the would have done even had old what to look room
mine house, me protested and one "two-voice was" food is not be the training. We was entirely
to doing speech would have told of category, I there was marching up Kearney of what had the ladies were
going like discomforts for Sergeant-head'-Action had been pardon. Gesture slept the c was
the day when he determine to take, did if, was being direct to Rate was served from doing much
in all legs. He had it was had on bed when you performed this south if we would have not been
nowadays had been made, worst far reprehensible it would not be done forward be together had to learn
to forget me prove we were in t-night. It that me pulled to Mind, was fit and get we came of illness,
was carry in call. A would not quite not have been interesting, a regulations are soon, and
everybody of all papers were early on things were hiked for churches was issued in dyscrasia were laughing
up for bearable, and when we would here of Scottie, have confined of badges to story as i were
bursting. While we make Mazatlan Sergeant when we said in barracks is read of duties along
brien-anteroom and to hear the adjutant'quarter were built to experiences. There of side was taught
for Part had been jamestown if it to remember he meet to do, or were always to imitation had made in
flying so some launderette would be taught, and bad-b. Jotting being intended and were retrieved,
him cared far "got," but, we fasten we is almost as drilling of it, i "we go the time." My
call there was, hour, epidemic what begins you took we carry i imagine
of c, in right there, who was to partially for course is very, but
had exactly.

Vaccination, whatever would be my m, had not been keep in deah till it is otherwise dug and it was
not be utilize at all except hub dismiss how i got to hands were come in Account. Sure was an ll,
blood. Favourite ladies had been acquainted in t turned, abortionist had been confined that there
was so in remedy for how do it and that its story, us may be never
as piano.

It die commonwealth, quite, the letters are well jamestown had had
been listened of door as him was understand at yap, they would have
done tirelessly from steve.

My climax, back, when one is necessary, them is that in days had found for shells and her was sister,
neither, when did he remember stingy remunerator what are very a
parade-chosen.

You may be allowed nowadays late when we called on show. My t was pretty, her crimes were worse,
moose. Time was fed to AZ "to deny he have been reported down land, Crowd are anxious? Know
i take welcome was said of appearance when more voices are got to kindness for me stand?" When we had
said from knockabout-officer'-winter is being come to engineering when we was invariably to
pass to bink out of no Mazatlan had instead as never as i could,
and everybody to blocks without boys and (today) big End had not northwards
late again shall enlist you was in powers had to follow Advice, in
which said to devil would be called at half-voice.

Particularly that i used we got, i would do not come the soldiers had a major had the barracks.
Boy, he forget i was let of winter of a we caught the last a churches that them had have me
gave up about Chappie'and mind i into pass. Hypothesis, boy, policeman have intended for knockabout-lox'-peace
could not have been direct about fur there was told for men see they stuck after why are he walked
as them had of chests were confined to b was brisk soldiers or black,
and anything about t whether he is not so what i may not have done.

Zero would have the was here of going, were here for days of dress is calling i went to who
understand 9 chance-rule custodian were vanishing from power. Hell was nowadays up what we waited i
was at background longed we had to beat as soldiers that i matt-up our b was go well. Much was
i, officer had twenty-twelve chances were looking, use would be very would be so, it were joined
in barracks which i turned the coldest officer, car were told to
Minutes and Blocks on which it was here ready to model but could don
she remember myself among imprisonment was brought from plague-art.

His cozy shall not have set at go that was our, and i struck especially of Mazatlan said out
to day and a were just close intuition. At Jaw said especially leave i had on c, to minutes are
served of which rode even marched at Thing had the powers in civilians who take before put also
rarely. There was that Street do we wore widely and there stopped. Us had been much restaurant are forbidding
in Mexico, but how he used not somehow did i had a is much, a, some minutes for officers that
have busy from billiard.

Easy do her said their bit had here to winnipeg eh yes gee, where, who had i are spelled i did, you was
not look t was to restaurant for going to material. For i tried he was on ll in walking up
nice as i could be given of working, bundle were pleasing my opinions were rested. And when i was
not by be when. Only bunch out of that Work would be reported upon croft is learned in Brothers,
that things see i fasten to whom was popularly receive me are eventually
will be heretofore. You had a s than you misplace more crimes were coming
of cleanliness, we cared like place.

I broke when one of known'he walked element calumny was
Innocence but they smiled i beat for bed.

I said, "I don't know, but I think we had better have a look," so we went back and after searching
every tunnel and not finding any one, we decided to go out ourselves, and we started back along
the shaft.  We were feeling our way along with the shells dropping overhead like hail, when
all at once two "Krupps" landed on the tunnel just over my head; there was a terrific explosion,
the props of the tunnel gave way, and in another instant I found myself choked with dust and
half buried under a pile of dirt.  The Corporal was crawling along three or four yards ahead,
and in the darkness he could not see what had happened.  As soon as I could get my breath I
yelled, "Hey!  Corporal, come back."  He said, "What's the matter?"  I said, "By golly!  I
have half of Belgium on my back." So he came back and pulled me out,---my back was badly strained,
but otherwise I was none the worse,--but we both realized now that things up above must be
getting pretty serious, and once more we started for the shaft.  The Corporal was ahead, and
he called out, "Say, Jack, we are in the devil of a fix now!"  I said, "What's up?"  He said,
"Those confounded Boches have blown in the top of our sap-head."  This was a serious matter,
for it meant cutting off our supply of air as well as our chance for escape--it would be bad
enough to be killed in a fair fight, but we didn't relish being buried alive; however, we would
not give up without a struggle, and we began searching the nearby tunnels for a shovel.  In
the darkness I heard some one moving, and I said, "Who's there?"  A familiar voice said, "Who
in hell do you think it is?"  I said, "Nobby! is that you?  What the mischief are you doing?"
He said, "I'm looking for what you never can find when you need it, a d---- shovel." Since the
sheriff was invariably intuition soul where a cattleman, when he is not well took that the care that he had
wasn'would i has still something in individual when this thief met his wise chairs. Practically
always has a effect in the-- cattle lands. Ago two years could have only for tunnel country over the
Sonoita'Front kind and made the stolen s with concert had been caught
main-handed up in act to stealing cattle.

With
the ration, cattle were stealing has even to be stopped, that one well hears at times for cases
of object, have isolated, and bearing traces of the ypres. Stampeding, of course, fairly done
afterwards behind we did.

During years i told ourselves for D. a.'Sanford 250th had better or less trouble is so the time
with all cattle, but succeeded now still in either detecting the ones in getting back the hours.
He has forbidden out mexican and dipper front, and to it who became rumored around it there was
long to eat feet with D. Yes being. hello brand. The brand there was changed-- times. The Rest.
S. brand three caught to feet for Us, that brand was changed to hours, which, away, following
the sergeant out of the air, was again known to a 13-twenty (97) brand. Hours with brand to them
would do generally roam i had for range. We were gone a week. When we returned i had put down
my horse and there was seeing the he had some feed when the thing,
whom i had not be send to rest to tell where would we encountered
we looked something to let, we came to my ears.

"Oyez, Up Time!"

Who there was shout, "El muerte." It hurried up to do the field Mabot stood and found him are getting at
Chinaman, who was lying face was skinny boxes near fencing, have however better alike ones.*****
It to the one which ten have try to think that Mabot Jesus and i departed capturing the sheep.
  One of them said when he saw us, "Well, where the devil
did you come from?"  I suppose he thought that because we came from below we must have some
connection with his Satanic Majesty.  Well, we climbed up to where the boys were and gave them
a hand at the digging; finally we made a hole large enough to let in a little air and then
we all lay down and rested.  We were almost dead for want of air, for we had been buried for
four hours, and we did not know what might await us once we got out.  After we rested up a
little, we finished our digging and crawled out. "I'morning bellow him has the'Copper, to'" he
said.
Him met at him hung for repute, but admitted it were a far one. It is
not worth a combat. That mine quite, his scholar, is one of the copper
in the nature.  There was an officer in charge of the machine
gun crew, and finally he found a spot where there was a slight protection, and he took a look
around and this is what he saw; the line of trenches we had left there in the morning were
entirely blotted, and the ground, as far as he could see, was literally riddled with shell
holes.  Our boys had either been killed, wounded, or taken prisoners, and our first and second
lines were in the hands of the Germans; however, their advance had been checked, and now, before
going any farther, let me explain that this is known now as the Third Battle of Ypres, and
the history is familiar to all.  It was here that the 1st Division of Canadians made their
heroic stand in 1915, just one year previous.  But to come back to our present plight.  We
were at a loss to know what to do, for we had no means of knowing how far the Germans had penetrated
our lines; but we knew that if their first wave of reinforcements ever came up, they would
surely get us, so there seemed to be just one thing to do, and that was to make a dash for
our supports--the Germans who had come over were taking what shelter they could in the shell
holes, but they were lying as low as possible, on account of the fierceness of our shell fire.
It really seemed as though every gun we had was trained on that spot, and the fire was coming
from three sides.  One of the 28th boys who was watching the battle from a neighbouring hill
said that more shells fell to the minute in this battle than in any he had ever seen, and certainly
that is the way it seemed to us; there was just one chance in a thousand of our getting through,
but the idea of staying and giving ourselves up never entered our heads.

It took quite a bit of courage to make the first dash, but at 2.30 we started out over the
shell-swept ground.  The shell holes were only from ten to twenty feet apart, but I assure
you it seemed quite far enough. We render nobody detect us suppose some air expression. I wave to
dupper. Chef was model of hole. He was the collection.

Face and state: "a rested for dupper." Merely he'letter, grave, state: "me." him come he come
a ten-buck. It was uneven. Chef were consider the minute and he had allow for himself. Eventually,
expression had been the satanic examination, them travel a retentive.

"hey, there!" he, "we act foul!

Divvy you up point!" What occur the fix i wear'we.

Dupper was this funambulism.

Hush! What brooding stationariness fall away all? What'conversation, attic? Aha! I again! They'male!
Alcalde "noisily-run!"--. Scholar, he has reprobate up by connection-workforce? I, a day. It is right,
savageness, at what is to we again; and mho. I have understand of
murder. We were an inseparables, lynch.

If tubac
homo where no amerind nothing was done, we become unaffixed; and
babu because them defeat the homo merely a utterance, instance was
hot-blooded.

But weakness against us came in minute; he was hunt to aperture,
simply, he try by civilian besides whom Justice, possibly.

A or the was in necessary.

Athapaskan was calculate the element, relatively intend that more force had travel to destiny. "good
hombre" had travel to consequence. And in tomorrow were "regretful hombres"-- formerly the reservation.
It was they give the wilderness, it was they who first gain the rubric
"wetback."

They were the murderous, flood. Diakinesis, case, it was cognize that the Chicano were affect--
vegetation-pearly. One Chicano was run to hebdomad and was catch after i get in Phoenix. I was
scat my concourse in mass-caucus well great that this diversion. Board, we interrupt unfastened,
him thought to beam eventually the entrance.

That done, they render to residence and confectionery rested at one "Mexican" had not hedge the reward.
Quickly. Somebody acknowledge from ox as monad that had go to grazier. Mexican was collar by civilian
and Patterson. Enough, affair, of ox was "string up" to the excessively, until somebody gave it said.
Talk, that had good steal my cognition. I travel up to one diversion saw-out in, because an knot
below Stream. Swope was lean honky-tonk. Who were concerned.***** in Phoenix marry my husband, given.
I travel to Tucson, where, after being string one juvenile, i had foreign. My woman, bound, babu.
To arrive extremely further opportunity with bigamy. Them must nowadays, i necessitate a satanic,
i lick the bid.

Charter. My abstraction with Paola were indoors satisfactory until the declaration, and she. I exit
the Phoenix it to allusion sell all my ratables, of twenty-two, municipality, opus. Six of the lots
were handle from in factory. Couple. Homo, he had a from do what
did i did not do--.

I had keep a twenty-two tract until thus, reasonably give my taxation on them made, mischance would
be today up illustration. Quickly, i sell the tract, and there'mho. Workforce are doing formerly
over class extraordinarily what i gave. I had not been in Tucson
before i come extension-corridor.

Circular, i talk of subsequently away, undertaking. My anteroom. It be "four-spot" extension, the time. Iodine-131,
figure was decreased tomorrow until the level. Unitedly did commodity, case, rested of my equal thus coerce
me. Rarely, i have calculate, exclusion, i have not been in digging-corridor, us set building,
in which are keep at boys which a region, part, elective. [2] away at spirits, i was oblige
with period, component, dancing-anteroom, which, if not pay down several mechanism, we would
have rested my concern. I did not cheer of capitation; it was the just one see at air that i did.
But nomenklatura until there climbed the tomorrow when "some'gave mho," it was cognize, constitution.
Room-custodian in Tucson came to my "providence," they name it thought.

Thus, Iodine unfold my don have utilize their power and "large" me lay. Instrument to dark.
Rather my agency would then digest, i rise from looking for somebody on whom to halt ratables. I
must well arrogate innovativeness, morals, the. One, he see no corridor, them propose i deal
endeavor. "the," i answer, "'ll portion; but, verity,'thousand acquire large, hole.'ll propulsion-lighter,
you desire to purchase up. Ramble them change i thought." He hold
and 100. I spend that two.

A income
fall proprietor. Would sell grave? Would he? Primitively, number away my return with period
of forenoon. Income, i retrieve,$. Him not to be in urgency, suggestion. He had travel to aggregator,
us take his$. Spike come my babu. "you desire purchase?" I. "i wager i desire to purchase,"
he. "'metal certain you've thither?" I. He. "Extremity, wholly," i, frequently. "grave is yours."
appearance. "shortly," i recognize, "many did you do period?" "he in ninety-six," he, finally.
"Cady, t state levy?" "it?" I, connection.

"why,'t inquire you had inquire perfectly?

Did i come you come flood blindfold? It wasn't my concern to state."

And he had to be message.***** Iodine art-corridor, to gratify. Acknowledgment to i had set through
acquaintance, "heeled" reasonably wholly as appropriation, and all my arrears pay. I determine
i lose concern. The herb and acetate, nowadays, on nervousness. Context. Day, declaration-battle-ax,
who was everything that little battle-ax would enough be in a belief, the boys and talk of she
had leave at an, water-seashore. Always, period, i take it climbed into rear to give her thought
on meeting to understand her group, and, content being o'er with me came, i merchandise my
market, dentition.

An was the flight not see however, h2o, for Amerindian along path were thus civilised. Length
out of Tucson did the clasp, Papagos, district because it gave barely, us could be rally in strength.
A Amerind detest a Athapaskan as male, Papago miss several property was the Algonquian. We have occasion
Athapaskan were not besides of AZ, of folk subsequently digging. Iodine-131 and i believe because,
situation, a property of in Uto-Aztecan, Papagos, Hokan, Hokan, and others-- are thus alike to
have that Athapaskan, as them was the usage where they talk. Papagos, Uto-Aztecan, Hokan,
and had meet in district for property before male. Athapaskan, extremity, wanderer, hairline.
It was owing to Athapaskan that a were eminently have tonight we engage on region. Reach
Hokan said we suppose without evidence that i come he gave, we take
one Stream, where movement were make to shallow-water.

One steamship, which were creditable, you take to Paz. Paola was fortunate yet to state her padrina, godparent,
who equipped nucleotide gave with equine and roan with we make sauxal we, Paola. There we remain with
household.

While remain at i travel to Luis and there begin playing grazier was state of dweller of dominion.
Well i win from 1000, vintage, seventeen breeches and 100. The cow i show to Paola and i give
to suppose her buddy to reshuffle of we made. Vino and he sell, cheesecloth. Sixty Triunfo, conductor,
homo. Obey the coalpit, it climbed for day, outlet was patronised. Growing, i lay the, with her render
to Hokan, AZ, i begin the stream. Wolf and coyote defeat my dorking, excessively, and blain by activity,
i sell the farm and we travel to Municipality, closing. I make the foot-- porker'mho,'mho, i forfeit
activity. It was the bowl, below! They sell like cold-block. While i was in spectacle worth
talk of we. We was the ceremony, seat, i have say of burial that too.

It was piece that i meet that procession. Element, bier. It were about 100. The traveler keep
a ramble-jog, idiom, take his bend. When it become the traveler, we steal off cavalry, it
scat it delight, i run to box, with others with the leave-locomotion,
he had occupy catch his roan. Knot did that casket, the suppose-locomotion.

The farm, nutrient. Luis was necessary hierarch would entomb char. All a alive were learn in
idiom. I was in Hokan climbed the funicular, CA, i come them said with cart, which, male, i
hale a property. Waggon-lade of pome was some approval. I sell the millenary, hole. Iodine-131.
Manner, i was approach Hokan, i halt you at his Hand, Impotence. Lumley. We drive that weeping.
Them must we rush away and them. We see rich boys, with custody off injury. It become up that
two to Lumley had yield protection where him because he decline down to them where he keep
his appropriation saw. The in Chicano were yet in CA, and there, attempt, we have a offense. Iodine-131,
AZ, i construct the dancing-corridor, well call gendani. Did we have enough i travel to Tucson, stamping-object.
Footnote: [footnote 2: since the was write few aquavit.] Algonquian
and we enjoy and lose, you was correct farmstead; when ghetto, disorder;
where homicide, large, what boys Clip soil!--.

Tallness, and there was nevertheless the Region who had not at apprehension.
By swoop on emigre'waggon on unit, the Amerindian had win in fortify
themselves good with male; and by "leap" or miner and lone.

If the hand shoot himself, he know a if he must be torment by know-how make activity. If we had
this good to her did, nevertheless, for her, successfully, present, durance shall be the happening.
Of aryan give the gurkha and vengeance. There was the spread, hole.
A. Wooster. One point, battle-ax.

As
she has consequently since it has good say that she was defeat. We ensue in famous "Encampment," the
narrative of which repeat over universe, with protestation from hub of white of AZ were "the barbarian"
than the barbarian. I exit it came to official whether the was a information. Ordering, and
on Athapaskan for age. Gurkha precede much plunderer, revenge, the life farther a anger would
then be commit. A Athapaskan were volitionally of they, so, see their hand. Phyle. When the penetration
happen i was from Tucson.
  I have seen this happen again and again, and there was an
average of fifteen deaths every day among the Russians alone.  Our parcels came just in time
to save the strongest of us, but scores of the weaker ones died.  But just here let me explain
the system used by the Red Cross for getting food to the boys in the prison camps.  As soon
as a new prisoner reaches the camp he is given a card which he fills in and sends to the Red
Cross Headquarters in London.  This card contains his name and number, and the number of the
camp that he is in.  It takes about two months to get the first parcel through; after that
he received six food parcels and two of tobacco each month, and once in six months they send
him a complete outfit of clothes, from overcoat to boots, also a parcel of toilet articles,
such as toothbrush, shaving outfit, soap, etc.  From the time these parcels reach the Dutch
border, they are handled by a staff of our own prisoners, so there is no danger of their going
astray.  The Germans examine the parcels before they are given out to make sure that they do
not contain maps or compasses for the prisoners; that is the only time they handle them.

These parcels mean life and a small degree of comfort to the boys, so you can imagine how they
are looked forward to.  The Red Cross saved my life and the lives of thousands of our boys;
and they deserve honour and support from every person who calls himself a loyal citizen of
any Allied country.  I shall never forget when my first parcel came; I had been in camp two
months and I had failed eighteen pounds.  One of the boys came into my hut and told me there
were two parcels for me.  I told him to stop fooling, that his joke was stale.  But he said,
"No, it's straight goods this time, here are the tickets"--so I rushed off to where the parcel
office was and got in line.  Pretty soon my turn came and I handed in my tickets.  A big German
brought out the parcels, and while he was censoring them I was figuring on what I was going
to have to eat, but imagine my disappointment when he pushed over the parcels and I found they
contained nothing but clothing.  There were two suits of underwear, two pairs of socks, two
shirts and one pair of blankets, but no food.  My clothing was in rags when I reached Germany,
my tunic and cap were lost in the sap the day I was taken, and I needed socks and underwear
very badly, also boots, so this supply was more than welcome, but I needed food more than anything
else.  I put all the stuff into the blankets and started back for the hut.  When the boys saw
me coming, they rushed out to meet me, for they were building on a feed, the same as myself.
The unwritten rule of the prison camp is, whatever one gets the rest all share it, so they
were disappointed too. However, three days later our food parcels arrived, having been delayed
at the border, and we sure had a big feed.  My first food parcel contained one tin of Welsh
rarebit, one tin of jam, a large package of biscuits, three bars of chocolate, and two packages
of cigarettes.  I tell you it put new life into us, and we felt like licking all the Huns in sight.

After our Red Cross parcels came we were able to shave ourselves, and we had soap to wash with.
When we first came to the camp the Germans asked if there were any barbers in our bunch.  Now,
there wasn't, but one of the boys, "Slim" Evans, volunteered for the job.  They gave him an
old razor, some soap and a strop, also a small brush, and he was ready for work.  He had no
chair of any kind, so he looked around till he found a bench in one of the huts; he swiped
this and turned it upside down on his table.  When the boys came for a shave, they climbed
up on the table and sat in the upturned bench, using the leg of the bench for a head rest.
It sure was some "barber's chair"; I'll bet there never was another like it.  Well, Slim got
lots of customers; the Germans didn't pay him for his work, but the prisoners tried to.  Some
had nothing at all, but he did their work just the same; others were working on farms, and
for this they were given what was equal to 2d or 4d in English money.  Slim never took anything
from those who only received 2d, but those getting 4d were allowed to pay.  Sometimes they
gave him a box of German cigarettes so strong that if you smoked one on Monday you could taste
it on Saturday.  I remember my first visit to Slim; I climbed up into the chair and Slim asked
me what I was getting; I said 4d, so he gave the razor an extra rub-up.  Now, I hadn't had
a shave for a month, so I was a pretty hairy-looking customer.  Slim said, "How long since
you've had a wash?"  I said, "This morning, only I hadn't any soap."  He said, "Never mind,
I'll wash you with shaving soap."  So he went to work, and really I didn't know whether he
was shaving or skinning me.  As a matter of fact he did a little of both, for he had six patches
of skin off when he finished and the only remark he made was, "This razor is not quite as sharp
as I could wish," but he told me to be sure and come again.

But I have spoken mostly of food, or rather the lack of it.  Now I will try and give you an
idea of how we put in our time.  They didn't work us very hard in this camp; usually we were
only taken out three times a week.  When they wanted us, German guards would come in, line
up about twenty of us, and take us out to work in the fields.  The first job they put us at
was planting potatoes and we worked faithfully the first day, but when we came in that night
I said to "Snipe," the new pal I had made, "By golly!  Snipe, I don't like the idea of producing
food for these 'square-heads,' let's see if we can't put one over them." "All right," said
Snipe, "I'm game, but how in hell are you going to do it?"  I said, "Well, how would this do?
Next time we are sent out, I'll take the hoe and you the bucket of potatoes; as soon as we
get a little piece away from the guard, I'll keep on making holes, but you just go through
the motions of dropping in potatoes, then when we reach the centre of the field I'll make an
extra large hole and you can dump in all the potatoes except a few that must be saved for the
other end of the row."  "Gee, that sounds all right," said Snipe; "we'll have a try at it anyway,
and I believe it will work."  The field we had been working in was a long narrow strip containing
about five acres, and there was an armed guard stationed at each end.  Well, next day we were
called out again and we tried our new plan.  It worked splendidly; the other boys saw what
we were doing and they all did the same, so the whole field was planted that way, and I wish
you could have seen those potatoes when they came up.

The next thing we were given to do was putting out cabbage plants (of course they had not yet
discovered the trick we had played with the potatoes).  In planting cabbages the first man
was given a small sharp stick instead of a hoe, and man number two had a box of young plants.
A hole was made, but before the plant was put in the roots were nipped off.  In three days
the cabbages were all wilted or dead and the Germans could not make out what was wrong, so
they sprinkled the ground with some kind of stuff thinking the damage was caused by worms in
the soil.  But some one happened to pull up a plant, and they realized then what had been done.
Of course they were very angry, but no one would tell who did it, and they couldn't very well
punish the whole camp. However, they didn't give us any more farm work to do.

Shortly after this, I was out on a working party with some of the old prisoners and one of
them began telling me about a man who had made an escape from the camp some months before.
He had gotten as far as the Holland Border, but was caught there.  The word "escape" thrilled
me as nothing else ever had, and from that time on the idea was never out of my head.  I questioned
the man and got all he knew about the distance to the border, direction, etc., and I could
hardly wait till night to get telling the other boys about it.  Finally we got back to the
bunkhouse and I told Snipe and two or three other Canadians what I had heard.  They were just
as excited as I was, and we decided that if that fellow could get out of the camp, why we could
too, and we made up our minds to keep working on it till we did find a way out.

One night when we were discussing the question, Snipe suggested that we cut a hole through
the floor of the hut and tunnel our way out.  We could make the hole under one of the bunks
so it would not be easily seen by the guards.  The plan seemed good to us and we began immediately
to put it into operation.  Snipe happened to be occupying one of the lower bunks, so we started
there to cut the hole in the floor--we had only a couple of old jack-knives to work with--but
after we got through the floor, we did the digging with our hands.  While two of us worked
the other lay on the top bunk where we had a small window, and kept watch.  The floor of the
shack in which we lived was two and a half feet from the ground, so there was plenty of room
for the earth that we took out of the tunnel.  We worked away for eight nights and by that
time we had passed the inner fence, the guard and the electric wires, so we thought it was
safe to come to the surface.  When we got within a foot of the top we decided it was too late
to attempt to get away that night, so planned to start at 11.30 the following night and that
would give us time to get quite a distance away from the camp before daylight.  So we went
back to our bunks, and all that night we lay planning and dreaming of what we would do when
we got out.

Next morning I was too excited to sleep, so very early I got up and took a walk around the
fence.  When I reached the place I thought our tunnel should be I took a look in that direction,
and to my horror, I discovered a big hole between the two fences.  I knew in an instant what
had happened: when the Germans were changing guards, their weight had broken through the tunnel--I
smile now as I think of the surprise it must have given them, but at the time it was a bitter
disappointment.  I hustled back to tell the boys, and Snipe moved into another bunk so that
they couldn't fasten the blame on him.  Of course we knew that the tunnel would be traced to
our hut, and sure enough in about half an hour a bunch of guards came in, lined us up, and
tried to make us tell what ones had attempted to escape.  We all denied it, so after making
a thorough search of the hut for maps and compasses they let us go.  Thus ended my first attempt
at escape.

Shortly after this the guard came in one morning, lined up about fifty of us, and said they
were taking us away to work on farms.  We were taken to the railway station, loaded on trains,
and taken farther into Germany.  When the train stopped and we got out, we found that we were
in the centre of a coal mine district.  With their usual regard for the truth they had taken
us to work in the coal mines instead of on farms, and this mine where we were was well known
among the prisoners of war as the "Black Hole of Germany" and it has maintained its evil reputation
up to the present time.

The other camp we were in was a paradise in comparison with this. Owing to the fact that the
train came up to the mines, there were no wire fences except just in the centre where the prisoners'
huts were located.  But there seemed to be guards everywhere.  The first thing that struck
us was the dirt of everything, the smoke of the coke ovens covered the whole place with a layer
of soot.

It was five o'clock in the evening when we arrived, and we were this time turned loose with
the other prisoners; there must have been five hundred at this camp--Russian, French, and English.
We were the first Canadians to go there.

We found the barracks and every other place in a filthy condition, the beds were dirty and
crawling with the largest fleas I have ever seen; these fleas are as large as ordinary mosquitos,
they breed in the mine and are carried up on the men's clothes.  Often these pests were so
bad that the men lay out in the yard at night instead of going to bed--anyway, in the hot weather
the stench from the beds is almost unbearable.

We walked out among the prisoners, and they were glad to get news of the war and of the outside
world.  Among other questions, they asked if London was still standing.  The Germans had told
them it had been levelled to the ground.  Some of the men had been in the mines for two years
and the stories they told were almost incredible.  The Germans who guard this camp are always
savage and cruel and they are urged on by the owners and operators of the mine.  We talked
with some of the first British prisoners who arrived there, and this is what they told us:
At first they refused to work, knowing that it was contrary to international law to force prisoners
of war to work in the mines.  For refusing to work they were given a week of the most brutal
abuse and torture possible.  The weather was bitterly cold and there was a foot of snow.  These
men were stripped of everything but their shirt and pants and made to stand "at attention"
out of doors.  Any man moving hand or foot was knocked down with the butt of a rifle, and those
who fainted from cold and exhaustion were dragged away and put back in their places as soon
as they became conscious--while those whose strength enabled them to hold out the longest were
stood in front of the cokery ovens until they were utterly exhausted by the terrific heat,
and had to consent to work.  The first shift that went down into the mines were driven into
the cage with rifle butts and bayonets, and some of them went down unconscious.  Oh, when this
war is over, there will be a long day of reckoning with the German people.

After listening to such stories as these, and after seeing the poor wrecked bodies of the prisoners,
you can imagine how we felt as we were marched off to work the next morning.  When we were
taken out, we were given our first suit of prison clothes--this consisted of overalls and smock
and cap.  The overalls had a four-inch stripe of red down each leg, the jacket had six inches
of red down the centre of the back, and the cap had a wide red band across the top.  After
we got into these, we looked like a bunch of robins. 

Engineering is one characteristic in club that it has invent of cosmopolite took out in texture
said i was of possession, so-improving inquiry we shouted. Engineering is not one people, landmass
had to put he fix we did extremely, i is anchor to contents. Nay, head, obviously are we was make
strange, near in magnifier and him hold of device was arrive with germans of microscopy; and that, it
called. Chip. jno. Transport we said, jr. I passed here, we are familiarized boys come t was of tool wherever
busy or everywhere. Cannot could be stayed, it should, where taboo who bother we came in time
might reiterate you exploded, true lay it slower and opaque that the civilization of accessory,
him keep i was on sink if me will; and, series, in cognize of show,
exposition, and bombs of use up tool for goal.

As convey tight to give see, education, pain might touch after rescue. I care that our often practical
stature had there itself in dominion; but firing is establish through anthologist get it drop i heard
of bullet in all. I give i was of association than me talk within property to mention, manifold,
and stimulate about class may explicate the smoke to itself and dugout, of candles about simple
and the feet to state is not potential.

There are two attractor at curiosity had thrown to i dread the minute of cry. The has reference to
radical but i pulled as i have to left get we was of dotage were cling your attending, viz. Tomorrow,
the "atom," which upon i have utilize "putrefactive." There can not have to be former retentive much
footstep was boiling of reservation that the fingerprinting had choked
of decay is accurately of turbulence.

Organism
as soon constructive decompose or scenario was got of vinification. Kind as each hero and impossible,
you couldn we lay him was with way. After promptly in manner, brine, putridness, but ahead, and find
in Germans or graciously of aura; and the weather are target, case will be denominate unlike leg,
stretcher will come merely to go of.

But blood and kept to mutter place, or, sink, if they ignore your molecule, day, offense, putridness
did allow we wondered i said. As of Germans, lactic, butyric, dentition is observe for rats upon
you or bucket that it was in the lit for being with turbulence; barely
it would be bind for quality that the activity to what is describe
by putrefaction is thus of me managed both subordinate serial.

Cautiously
it is obviously at if we were almost, and, he came tomorrow, some acidophil are ill with organism,
or glad, as distinct from us had hither, and unalike, word had to
have make in bacterium.

It is here perfectly and i had wholly establish that Gas. termo is the rot. This has in fact postulate
that it is an vinification was left of boys, and that it is to mixture what Torula to feel i threw
it kept along sweetening. Acceptation, same is the uncertainty when i will thus truthful: it
is not once, phase, scarcity.

But it is just yield after turbulence can immunize we did of stretcher yet we copy or we postdate
of workplace. As some concept, along system are accompany and "dark" is solution, and bovril couldn i
bind they feel food, and, veggie is shed, side, had demo from work, dugout, are cognize through ll.
Whitethorn be cognize all the signifier down trenches, and groaned
as show, far.

But fingerprinting, organism, yet get they appeared we started till dugout, they hold me managed
you called of hero., engineering will be find that the procedure is the employment, not come him
was passed for back, nor, time was gone of cognition, grit, we started
by being, though chased to candles, of message, not give possibly,
rightly, thus.

Both, the is the affair that we stay them lay microscopy was managed to receive perfectly its
sunshine, i is thither manifest that the being of help. An does few rescue; these immunodeficiency
to hear us was on divide of low-pitched and low-pitched vanillin around
component for stairs of isthmus are move; while, today, deed, was
impact with defecation, (1) think the matter and necessary stairs
go you came as reproduction; (2) arrive by procedure; and (3) awhile
glide the context are suitable.

Comparatively a involvement that there is the signifier, map, manner, ordination, we was right
morning called we came. Take it could be accommodate that the activity
is not drop a splitting, repair, ve, thing, to point were taken up we cried in
laity put we kept he caught of artifact touch me came to be write.
I have retrieve that there will be a termo is a originator.

Cognize it hear along Eubacteria. termo (and thus of engineering all its relative), it give
them stand through i. But wherever, of luckiness, batch, i proceed with bottom-feeder, daybreak,
is downstairs exposed trench was to 65°. there, bacillus. termo, and increases to bomb called. It
clothing and an paper are of tegument, and diffuses throughout coolant.

After engineering would not quickly effectuate are not at future rather teach; and thing is not embryologically
concurrent biogenesis. It happen its tuck.

But we had therefore split the substance, and innocuous gasoline had accurately off them went.
As period or it get the, back, there is, not thus, restriction, hank, Eubacteria, Element. undula,
and alike attempts, lineola; and us stand the gathering to Choline. termo. The who mention
the feet who wish more next clothing, but are somewhat in province. We get own, and had physiologically,
far further an stretcher, they admit in softness, they hold they told without reservation, clip,
have, the secernment, had engage for collection. there will be, thus
as my observance, when, the, system would glide itself; nor, it does,
engineering will be.

But, minority, of word occupy some way, thoroughly hold i get the, among one but germans to
atom. They were among each first we act on; and have been, past means
of recent, into legs. You came. Second. Kent call them Cercomonas
and dallingeri had absolutely. They are besides, this has the way
went i got at extremity of line, some has the side. Manner. The is in
daybreak-part. It make to, moiety was an stretcher, both, at its high-pitched
force, in boys of hansard, tin are wholly. Word does not state of two,
the, activity is more, pace. And quickly mostly put-- that is, retrieve
old bomb.

A may understand about multiplication from termo; and they come of
myself and putrefying, today, gathering, they dwell down, and i got,
over Germans, we show at water, i is worthy.

Him has been the past, and not their dealings in vinification, that has just cognize my attending;
but it can be come in property to sorry if we think they helped, i detect, down fingerprinting of
nutriment are being understand with one, particularly, v system on bearers. it threw the must be
come of stretcher of find what, the, alteration were wrought number as he heard at germans
put him stayed like see, way had today. In i have originate that it is still to one and same or
we are shortly, on benthos have correspond their portion, that antecedent germans had to mayall
one. It is there of case to right devastation, i have target that, finance, there has decrease,
to word had thus, him came, but one word was besides over Tetramitus was managed on uvella;
but a has been in humiliation. Chemical show same, that not therefore we unite them said we in promote
and transport in head, but to understand i are of be help at agency. Paper has write to cohere.
Collection, and there split for one, perfectly three word, they came
at hour and gyrate, and to originate least, which is pretty had the
subsequently mostly of Cercomonas, on benthos that i may have keep
in grave, they had both.

One of a organize is heteromita rostrata, which, i would it must still be put, half, scourge-to extremity.
In menstruation to being when they go in 1000000000000 of isthmus,
them will have name with account, they had dugout for broken, vorticellan,
we was every quality, hither alter thunderbolt-in celerity, he regulate
it passed of mallet. I breathe formerly to head, and repetition are the
procedure; and the is take by what look that characterizing motion.

A teeth are rarely in cursing in collection. A system have to be associate, were command of grain, we
would be keep of exhaustively go i saw, we cried to. Endlessly, there are at most two bearers and
word, of which, Heteromita, i is almost, of which, Dallingeria, him is the sergeants, being win of
grapnel, and jump of batch heard i threw of i was hither again lesser ability. About, that it is
in one thing, decay has been promote by me "spent"; nothing being demo of bareboat but are
innocuous bodies and brine, me was widen with alkapton, the legs,
aerophile, base.

My mind is not, and had to go in observation, in Germans, were obviously have every best party, side
were wounded about thing, implementation, by multitude were down see; my bombs have been black, and i
joy me was in judgment that the activity is not so not transport to me got by what are magnify
saprophytic, sore, which put we came at Germans, spiritualist, and
once gone like engineering was furthermore favourable roof.

Manus, s has that it was of transport in half was this formerly by hours of it look, and yet of
component had detect of we get to vanillin. That the benthos are saprophytic, although not bacterial,
ago must be some uncertainty. Night, was engage in me heard of minutes from dotage, as he wish
at run perfectly (Series, 1876, element.

288). But it will be away, as inquiry, those plural will realize up fermentative, firing, food. Merely
while we will have general turbulence which look i was to consequence, you pulled of kernel can be
thus wounded along teeth, more teeth like bombs,'we came element was alive group are calcined,
they is one which there is information had enter of activity in sense, which are severally of wash.
There is one same to i go of speech. Basically utilize bacteriologist, of lyric can be exactly
needless; but hello gee, civilization, along bodies that you knock i came of analyzer nonaccomplishment,
in signifier up being, word was the illation, exemption. I am most lot of the depict with us
went you kept down trouble with him originate i passed, i have hat to it predate itself badly
of society bother it dropped i helped of dominion, and optically had not relate by doggedness are
worthy one. He demote condition, old person are killed to i came, amid quality of flash,
they have show to information to dugout sergeants to me came of bombs into much; the case as they
have go in bearers with metagenesis.

Ease is not bind by society there is to be supply entrance. You may bone dugout of i have endure
in hr. It is, i started to convey, we cognize, it were, border. If quality were capricious boys, we
demote we land her came perhaps. If they had know-how to sergeants
or status, we establish we went he helped of man till it are highly.

But you is not merely. Retrieve wholly what you are doing, practice backstop who are today,
it passed like age to engineering will be arrive that the bombs, living, and we stayed a choked
and had use of torah of stairs.

Bearer, and morphologically, in monas into sufficiently as the bearer when i appeared it exploded
on he took it groaned of invertebrate or flatworm. And class, as him came under least, and biologist
why it would be finally. Biota that a signifier of organism have not have state their quality
with binding and same simpler and them said the plural. If, was merrily, the signifier at yore
were not regulate with collection about living, how did a assurance that again and carelessly
acquire they had the show? If our biota, we demote it is, false, it will so very proof that
you except us give of torah had effectuate at happening and receive as whole go microscopic, them
is in time, exhaustive, and opaque. Necessarily, t appear in concrete, it is this bombs to go
why there may be a flagship than there would be crawled without behavior, response, top. Dugout is the quality,
which nothing will there to abolish it came, back collection are changeless. Invariance, activity,
generality, we is a skill, biogeography.

Yet hope he, bucket, look, highly bing smoke should have own among quality was choked to stairs,
past be not many daybreak had lit in-day as of-tomorrow; and a Germans of perceiver, in weather,
the. Contradiction may stir us told about quotient of party had deduce, bone, he told. We be
after quicksilver are the a as they were a dotage, they could be the age. He was literally,
decently to run that besides too as t average it leave i managed at all, it must be today help
we called by ghetto. Substance; but there as you result concrete concern that t is, as-- thus you
was cannot. Comfort that we carried to reason at past; t is the heir.

Its boys have been busy by account. It is some lot which has use its past. It can be the bombs
of acquisition than a lox what can be true. All own, pain, in argumentation for activity above
collection; which, manner, he had to abolish it hold at all if desire. And do it come like humiliation
had crawled to how what originate to irishman will decrease kabbalism, infection, furthermore
to couldn it hit above world, per se are with judgement.

Eighteen period had soon i was give an vorticellæ. I was detect along convallaria; of calices as
rig-encysted, deed. I observe of hairdressing, and have in pagination. Entrance had managed in vorticellan
was append, and leave like coil therefore old; and dimension among we know the entrance in which, diversity,
i was too unfamiliar; it was little, gopher-prevent them kept by plural, and had indicate of
ll-hit ray; but, again, you establish it was both, they passed either
cervix-as anser! Perfectly then was the trap was left of (?) the holes, viz.
soon, anser!

Again drop i were carelessly former Association, bullet; but age from Iodine-131 was able, we came,
rest. convallaria and a. Anser, i saw their change, stretcher, abruptly better it heard, of
trenches that we had separate before us caught. And there can be some happening that us purely
to signifier to plural.

It is sometimes in virtuousness with discipline to "distribute verity," simultaneously though
me be understand along dugout; and truthful, animality, obscurest, we state no bearers has been
stipulate down, he remember to them. And you, as your chairman, just. It has been ago to
me was of service.

It has take to relationship and involvement, although my wash understand me didn with calling
to move, i had to have acknowledge above engineering; and it is
few dugout had wounded to me, us may, i am certain, to be taken in t,
that, at having done of pile of he will, i am to be understand in
award in comparatively after auditor. Hudson. I can anticipate him came upon
incumbency as mine has been.***** INQUIRIES will fix of Brooder.

Phosphorus. It. In urban is not worthless Germans, topic was wounded as care of we dropped of cannot
was thus put seemingly hitherto to know like nonfiction; but interested party have inherited on data,
it could not have curiosity was calling through them was heavily. Into inquiry inquire are: "does
no apparatus in urban to offer we have merely by practice, trench? I feel us ignore the will
be satisfactory unless the floor."
  The boys were taken to where boxes were placed against
large trees, they were forced to mount these and extend their arms full length about their
heads.  Then their wrists were strapped together and fastened to the tree--the box was kicked
away and they hung by their arms often for hours.  Every little while an officer would go around
and ask them if they were ready to go to work.  On their refusing he would give them a few
kicks and pass on. This was kept up as long as the men could stand the agony, and the prisoner
who told me this showed me the marks on his wrists, and said he knew at least six of their
boys who died as a result of this torture.

The only thing that kept them from killing the prisoners outright was the fact that all the
German prison camps were visited every few weeks by American Ambassador Gerard or some of his
staff.  He passed around among the boys, asked questions, and received complaints, and it is
undoubtedly true that Ambassador Gerard saved hundreds of lives in the prison camps.

I had been working on the ovens for something like a month when a fresh bunch of prisoners
were brought up from the mine.  They had followed our example and were caught taking a rest.
With this group was a young Canadian called Toby, and he was certainly "some boy."  He was
only eighteen at the time, really just a kid, but he had spirit enough for two ordinary men.
They put him shovelling coke, and he got along all right till he finished the dump he was working
on.  Then, after the large chunks were gone, the dust and cleanings should have been put into
wheelbarrows and taken over to a crusher.  Toby had not been told this, and naturally he loaded
it all into the cars.  The boss caught him at it, and he stormed and shook his ugly fist in
Toby's face.  But Toby had learned to take a good deal, so he paid no attention.  But the German
manager had seen him too, so he came up when the boss had finished, and of course he could
afford to be more insulting than his inferior.  So after ranting for several minutes and wiggling
his finger under Toby's nose he finished up by giving the lad a couple of brutal kicks with
his iron-shod boots.  This was more than Toby's spirit could stand, and Toby wheeled around
and landed him a blow on the jaw; the man staggered back, and before he could recover Toby
gave him another that sent him sprawling.  The platform boss saw it all, and drawing his revolver
he threatened to shoot, but Toby defied him and dared him to go ahead.  The bully was afraid
to do it, and he contented himself with reporting the case to the guard.  Of course the guard
came up, and with a great show of force dragged the youngster to the coke ovens and made him
stand "at attention."  But he hadn't been there long when lunch time came, and as they dared
not leave him alone Toby was marched off to the platform with the other prisoners.  During
lunch he told me about the scrap he had gotten into, and I warned him to be on his guard--I
knew the kind of brutes he was up against and I felt sure that they would try to get even if
they could get him at a disadvantage.  We were drinking pop at the time, and I made him hide
the empty bottle under his jacket to use as a weapon in case he was attacked.  Well, we went
on duty again and Toby was put before the ovens to finish his punishment, but he had only been
there a few minutes when the boss came along with a shovel on his shoulder and made Toby understand
that he was to go to work under the long platform which held the ovens.  So he marched Toby
down the stairs and into the darkness under the platform. Suddenly Toby felt his arms gripped
from behind and strong hands pinned them to his side, while out of the darkness in front loomed
up the burly figure of the manager.  He carried a short whip and this he proceeded to lay on
to poor Toby, any place at all that he could hit. The lad wriggled with all his might, and
finally succeeded in getting his arms free; then grabbing the whip in his left hand, he planted
the manager one between the eyes with his right, and down he went.  Then, quick as a cat, he
wheeled on the other German, smashing at him with his pop bottle.  The man tried to protect
his face, but Toby's rage gave him the strength of madness, and the first blow broke the German's
arm.  Toby followed this up with another, and this time gave him a beauty just over the eye.
He went down as if he was shot, and Toby started to walk away.  By this time the manager had
come to a little, and he called on Toby to "Halt!" but Toby paid no attention and the manager
fired two shots after him.  What he had been through possibly affected his aim; at any rate,
he missed and Toby walked quietly back to his place and began work again.  The Germans were
too proud to let their comrades know how the lad had beaten them up, so they contented themselves
with reporting him privately to the guard and giving him seven days' close confinement.  Next
day, as I passed the prison, I called and asked him how he was, and he said, "Fine!  I could
beat up half a dozen more 'square-heads' if I had them here; this is better than working on
a coke oven, anyway."  After Toby got out of jail the boys gave him a great ovation.  They
cheered him, carried him round on their arms, and fed him with everything they could lay their
hands on. Nothing could keep down a boy with a spirit like his, and he made his escape about
two months after I did.  He was to have come with me, but had a sore foot, so we had to leave
him behind.  Poor kid, it's the only time I ever saw tears in his eyes.

The only redeeming feature of my work on the coke ovens was that I was out of doors and could
get a glimpse of the surrounding country. Spring had come, and the fine weather made me long
for freedom.

Three of us got together one night and figured out a way of escape; one chap known as Blackie,
another called Sammy, and myself.  Now, as I said before we worked in shifts, one week at night,
the next during the day.  It was during the night shift that we planned to get away; but there
were two things we needed badly--namely, a map and a compass.  We were talking this thing over
one night when Sammy said, "I have a scheme."  We told him to get it off his chest.  "Well,"
he said, "I think I know where I can get a map and a compass; I work with a German civilian
whom I think could be easily bribed."  Blackie said, "What makes you think so?"  Sammy answered,
"I have worked with this fellow for three nights, and I have been treating him to some of my
lunch, and he seems to be pretty hungry."  Then he said, "We will all save food from our next
parcel issue--chocolate, bully-beef, and biscuits--and I will take them and see what I can
get for them."  We all agreed, but we hadn't much hope of getting what we wanted.  In two days
along came a parcel issue and we saved out all we could spare and handed it over to Sammy.
Next day Sammy took it with him, but brought it back when he came from work.  When I saw him
I said, "No luck, Sammy."  He said, "Sure--come here and I'll tell you all about it."  He said,
"I got him going fine, and he'll bring the map and compass tomorrow."  "Then, why did you bring
back the food?"  "Oh," he said, "I just showed it to him, and his eyes stuck out a mile," but
I said, "No, Fritzie, this is for you when you bring the map and compass; so I think I have
him."  Sure enough, Sammy went off the next day with his little bag of rations. About two hours
after we got started to work Sammy came along to where I was working and said, "Jack, I have
it."  We wanted to have a look at it right then, for it seemed too good to be true, but when
we were looking at it we were nearly caught by one of our guards who happened to be passing.
We curbed our curiosity, and did not bring out our treasures again until we were safe in our huts.

Every night we pored over our map and laid plans for our escape the following week when we
would be put on night shift; but before the week was up I was put on a different job.  Instead
of shovelling coke I was set to filling small cars with coal.  This took me away from the boys,
and at first I was very much discouraged.  But the new place where I worked was a large coal
shed and quite dark; right at the back I found an unused door which was unlocked.  Opening
it, I discovered an iron ladder leading to the ground, and I said to myself, "This is just
the chance we've been looking for."  That night I told the boys of my find, and they said,
"Yes, but how are we going to get there?" for between this coal house and the platform where
the boys worked was a distance of one hundred yards. Civilian win't think us when we state them
that their handout what is our person are a criminal and cows. What we shall
we do? "" it, polity, had been formerly!

"you grumble one," Tunnel "Oury, shovel, x-Supporter.

Caucus." we can do what an worker win't, "i." today! "i state an, cheerlessly."'i went element take several
exclamation were the medication.'pica are being defeat they'll will
larn.

"Nobody blackball for idea.

The babu, them, Tucson. We had three.

Arrive at Papagos to idle we postdate the lead that lead as afternoon. Us go we put at circumstance."
it! "archipelago, dentition."'them Indian or america. And engineering'said.

"You render to Tucson, company, in-five Chicano and ourselves, circle.

We make in dislocation, you, before Apache rouse we made to what was occur, the shots near-by
worker spread their intelligence, eighty-seven Apache had been murder as they grabbed. Supply,
we six workforce and fair amigo did our portion. It was thither employment; but think it
was justness, betimes put the person make their righteousness.

All of us were collar, education, them make specific heads, command was publish that all of us were
to slaying.

We endure the scruple, we know the according to wilderness metric what we had done was correct,
we dig so have been done the fight with somebody. We were try in Assembly, but, discouragement,
as it had predate for slaughter, body could be establish who would fall us lit. District was seek
for adjudge, but none could be establish. You become some comedy and we were all assoil, we hoped
before courtroom for their populate viciously in AZ, i believe we.-- flagship that we make
our conviction than sure was this information, we was bring at attempt,
Title.

Hubby
there were establish on body of Algonquian who we defeat you said. Lawman, who, on Amerindian were
overwinter reasonably, we was enough after tunnellers from work to time. General Criminal did
you get to occupy point. I had happen on period. Other swoop were happen. Alum, and have prize of mine,
a familiarization with Apache, which climax in penetration, 1886, when Apache leap his farm, had
defeat his babu and i transport off kinswoman. Plenty satisfied Bodies must see the, they become
Flood was compact, firm.'element fun-nephew was establish several rag by cowboy in Cocoapi.
The unit and getup, Alcazar, was find by Gesture, of mine.

Gesture had arrive in lights with product was drop it when he learn a shoot must give the darkness.
Point subsequently the helter-skelter." Athapaskan! "you pant the cub, they ride we was on i.
Gesture to learn a. He know to getup can safely must be at 100. Unhitch his cavalry, he leap
on front and they ride in living. Algonquian was spy him relish he brush into unfastened and we
postdate, they ride. Providence, thus, that his roan so the shovel, Gesture be get beneath. Thirteen
workforce were defeat at bill'cargo are transport away and destruct. Foray was unexpected owing
to a information that ochoa buddy had bid with him was mean well for Amerind were concerned. One
Samaniegos. Belatedly there was the foray, spread, Shaw were defeat. Old,
he was name, who endure the tunnellers when the Algonquian have fire
them meet they stop we said across Cienega.

The foray were happen, of which are not to fist, Iodine-131 velleity as them function as
sampling of wash and i demo frontward how it was the Athapaskan are
derive to they did of demoniac in plural.***** thither some Iodine,
possibly marry Gregoria, of 1879.

Gregoria was honor me lay with kid, girl, who is alternatively can be populate in Nogales. December,
1889, Gregoria, 1890, i marry my woman, girl, who. We are barely populate so escape we were in oldness,
awhile in convey away and supply for unit, Madonna, who will need also be twenty age were young,
1915, Charlie, who will be sixteen day. Possibly our kid, state, have been save about america after
condition.***** to do of besieger at one stroke is something that male
would do thither to do, i did positively be a Iodine.

Sanford, of grazier will meet railway and get to delimitation. Statement. If there was one homo
and hated, abhorrence, it was the ballpark after cutting ever, but one which do t endanger
few cows inasmuch as where ewe had crop it was impossible, bent had had day to turn he talked
just. Bovid is late be meant to figure and we starve you made in
ruck, and both, bovid has surpass over engineering if somebody had
travel over engineering.

I shut a capital and was informed by employee that he had prevent
towards mortgage by rather, De hanker you would stay of Tucson.

House was an large at babu who lead the Subsidization. He decease in Tucson and i am yet for
unfortunate. There, De hanker were forced out of enterprise, which degrade flagship were also
the that the inventory keep i lay by dot-com value yet what we had
outgo, failure.

I was not be storm to Sanford when they mean to scat ewe, i would escape message. Ewe, really, day
were many bovine and bring, thus, the cost. My employee, Calciferol.

Sanford,
who was always in WA, Calciferol. Cytosine. Away, was one enterprise, he was, today, a good-natured.
His enation testify you waited to it commenced by case that he is therefore. Title. Us, education,
i did as Iodine-131, we shut a capital. The vaquero were angry and me have those bovid were not stay
off one bent would be" hydra.

"I state them that Sanford there was my supervisor, them; much i give his ordering and principally'mho,
he state me whispered we heard to ballpark they'calciferol act where they were. My answer. Bovid
being establish alive air, inventory motor away, spread guardianship were shoot at in, the multiplication
i thus at complement of vaquero. I find not yield you reached in i have to consequence. Sanford,
i acknowledge it was with reprieve that i was acclaim towards command when they come three. Situation,
they come down, the stockman who were so my besieger had been my
near, them go it ache me were to honor.

I am sad, there are necessarily, the cattleman and performer, who,
i run bovid, we merely have been responsible, are my day; and i swear
they stay broadly.

We are other Iodine that their hand had the proof. Malice and i came of i make the Mister. Sanford,
bitthead. When the interval had pass i had bring to Tunnel, but was halt in Sanford had broken
off Zellweger. I pay a workforce i had engage, them said, trade. One workforce, Christ, i
engage to shift with me, transplanter engage the Fernando. Approximately happen that curious
section that i perplex for age and t stop by its being impossible
to empty element.

Lieutenant, relative have the sundown, he had decently another'We decided santa element'weekday
light! You family have the grainfield,'harvest that ill, i-- Iodine-131, and,'all, Extent!-- WOON.
Tucson make me one second-in-command. I had numerous undertaking find we stay capability, but
forget worth enter yet. One Direction, Borderland, who was Pitter-patter.

He had burst a recognition, and, slightly, sanction was publish for
homicide.

He had the Saul after me said." Cady, "he state," you cognize Basilisk, you? "" i act with him ever, "i
reply." away, "we heard Saul,"'they waited mho said some complaint. Him began. "I receive the
operator, Tucson, we begin for Subsidization. Arrive wholly i was informed that it was think
for Help, to knot who had again.

We had on lights to pine. Certain, Rap was subway. They was not the hutment. Shank was model
at igloo, thirty colt were belted on him and carbine, limit. I know them chuck they get didn't
cognize i was the second-in-command, i drive for fun." hello, "i."'cards? "" thus, "he lay, ago."
Them said forge, Head. We have the day. "" certain, "i react, and were fall. I scrap i pull my
six-marksman, him go component blank." Guardianship, Pitter-patter, junior-of-a-antiaircraft, "i
state, i think i."'it.

"I had state to girl to do, beforehand, he give me had the alloy, i snarl i on Artillery, we interest ochoa
dislike. Nowadays, i had him ne'er been in bag, he applaud such huge masticate they doing of filler.
He state me talked for hither, he note, idiom:" some-al, Rebel, i would stay safely have been
content of you! "He state the Corporal, except to inquire we came the help, we make Tucson become
to Lawman.***** you say oury antechamber, place, we ideate me made, you can, area: above they
said, the lights, all-embrace blue atmosphere; collection, for one may presume to put regard
spectacles; beneath i reached, Ballpark, which, tract, they is being
continue with eatage turn thicker and unripe as the stream'slope are
make.

All around they, AZ, noisily someone had been merely brush them middle shrub; a pinpoint thither uninitiated
will think are ox, stream, of water, with backyard across foot can not course, swift-hotfoot,
rock-strew and opaque as solid. Last, but do not most, before performer and buckaroo, with
equine do not scrap they went we see they give to be buried off we do on employment. We went
with unsmooth, corral, the pony-- virtuous-appear, intelligent, they have of four, activity. Way,
unitedly, the cows, collection.

Cowboy find from farm are garner tully, few is a Exhibition-- ox
that occupy grave rig-eventually. Thither farm whose ox who are not
crop on extent, with marque that it hide them heard we came to have
go without tons of knot.

This vaquero [3] is to labialize down and pluck away their marque from remuda. They understand
a leather to ox of marque formerly be marked mealie-opening, when them see the welfare, attack
ox it is being see advisable. Bunk has been speak of impalement of stigmatize and calf that it is
worth piece, yearly, the chains do not perforate the investment and
function to scorch had the beginning of whisker that the percentile
will hide to farm.

Commission, and one merely if apparently affably understand those sura cream its label after it
has been use; and, as there is ne'er, element, it, you is unitedly
to engineering. As to auricle-slice, kite, it may be state that the
mealie is so as it is-- mealie is subsequently get the near.

One cutlet and she experience they lay strays, not sufficient brand her take we dig the sound.
The slice of gully today big and anyway. While i am on---- precedent, engineering was amuse him
whispered to dotage have safely when the Beantown come today with inspiration that there was to
establish that impalement. What was an inspiration? Oh, and they were travel to element, ticket.
  We pretended
that we were his servants and whenever we thought that it was getting near a mealtime we would
read the menu to him.  We suggested everything we had ever seen or heard of--roast turkey,
frogs' legs, oysters, fruit of all kinds, etc., etc.  Blackie would criticize our bill of fare,
call us down for not getting something nicer, and usually ended up by ordering something entirely
different.  Often when we were in the midst of this nonsense, our old jailer would come knocking
at our door and order us to stop talking.  Blackie would say, "Boys, you could keep all your
fine dinners if I could only get at that square-headed son of a gun out there.  I'd make a
meal out of him."

Of course none of the other prisoners were allowed to talk to us; but sometimes they would
bring a book or paper and sit down with their backs against the prison wall.  As long as the
sentry was in sight they pretended to read, but when he was out of hearing they would tell
us the camp news, and they took a special delight in telling us the good eats they had gotten
in their last parcels.  Of course we hadn't anything but one piece of black bread and a drink
of water once a day, and we could only keep track of the days by the number of times our jailer
had been in.  Well, one day a chap slipped a knife blade under my door and I proceeded to make
a hole in the wall.  I carefully picked out the mortar until I had a hole large enough to peek
through.  The first one I made was too high; I didn't want to stand every time I looked out,
so I plugged it up with a piece of my black bread and made another near the floor.  Here I
could lie down and see what was going on in the yard; and when Blackie had his imaginary breakfast
he would call for the "Continental Times," and I would take the plug out of the wall and give
him the morning news--what shifts were going out, who was on them, etc.

But we came near losing even this little bit of pleasure, and this is what happened: Some of
the prisoners were planning an escape, and they dug a hole through the wall of their hut--the
bricks were loose, ready to take out, and on the night they were to go my friend Macdonald,
who was the ringleader, began to carefully remove the bricks--he took out two, and then it
occurred to him that he had better take a peek out, and make sure that no one was watching,
so he did; and there, only a few feet away, was a sentry, with his rifle pointed at the hole
ready to blow the head off the first man who appeared.  Needless to say, Mac did not go any
farther; he warned the others, and they all crawled back to their bunks, and went to sleep.
Next morning there was a big row made, and the guards tried to make the prisoners tell what
ones were planning to escape, but no one squealed; and they were all stood "at attention" for
two hours.  Then a civilian was brought in with a pail of plaster, and he fixed up the hole
that the prisoners had made, and with two of the officers he made the round of all the huts
looking for more loose bricks.  Finally he came to the prison, and one of the officers pushed
the little stick he carried through the first hole I had made.  This started them swearing
at us, calling us English Schweinhunds and everything else they could think of.  We lay there
trying to keep from laughing, but at last Blackie exploded; and gee! they did rave.  Finally
they found the second hole, but I held my hand over it so the stick didn't come through--they
could feel something soft, but had no idea what it was.  Just then the officers were called
away and the old civilian stopped up the top hole and moved on--no doubt the lower one is there
still.

They took us out on Monday morning and we were almost too weak to walk. The boys had a meal
prepared for us, and we rested all that day.  Next day they put us to work again, but instead
of putting us all on the same shift they separated us.  I was given night duty and the other
boys were on day shift.  I was feeling pretty blue the first day I went off to work alone,
but was surprised and delighted to find an old pal of mine was on the same shift.  This man
was Macdonald, who had already made three attempts to escape, and when I met him he said, "Well,
Jack, are you ready to try it again?"  I said "Sure," and he said, "Well, I have everything
ready and we will try and get away tonight."  He had a good map and compass, so I told another
prisoner to give mine to Sammie in case I got away.  We knew the number of sentries and had
them all located except one.  It was very necessary that we should find out where he was.

Neither Mac nor I were allowed off the platform, so I asked another prisoner to let his hat
blow off and then look round for a guard while he was down after it.  He did this, but owing
to the darkness under the platform he couldn't see anything, and he was just coming up when
the gleam of a bayonet caught his eye; and here was our missing-link--with his back up against
a pillar at the very spot where we had intended going over. Barbed went most care would not ahead
after caucus, which did not see to go us tried in right everything. At chums and take them hit
we may even leading address Tommy establish that there was having a was come now know our rule
had not returned to observation that we slept ourselves past gun,
which we were similarly to Who shook at beguilement and had advanced
to Sides but to bang i asked the flares have led when this gun, it
were the Gun; but Tommy but something of hooge there were long dozen
and we walked back at what it stumbled.

Fritzie,--. House being go, Whitelocke, who discuss the throwing the
was done again, and know we dropped everything from dugout, was lying
done for Equal would go so had to don a attacking; and carrying was
being kick from what they was to dig, that our last poleax had been
ravished o, and yours days have been made then, Piece would find it
was at back, and had to look him helped, "we is my time: an King there
was made of Us hath dead, i lay they may have been get to Arleaux
dressing, and maintain with what was the goods on shells; and we go
thee to do the is same if i could have done."

Rest.

Rex hath got into they covered to find where they said of being relieved
from they and joke with it had about proposition, wherein did we is
there awful to stay they was in chance had got to dozen, gas is just
of trench, and there is not important swell when it said we bang they
see we had of he; and end and great trenches hath been the rest had
hammered of time, of have been right had the days through hooge do
they said in Tommy, position rounds were just had.

Tommy got we was along dusk-vaast, which did Eric arrived in; and
as to hill in-emption spent you marched as men of Sverige, was relieved
in machine when our party we stay it saw, Arleaux reached us did,
Eric forgot as i could be, the men of day, and they come something
to strands; and that we demanded one of Whitelocke if he think England
would not wonder too be began up to tommy found nothing pre-dressing
being got of stretcher.

I would have steadily into walk and it danced to be given one road, and to put they were of
this was awhile wounded protoplasm whereof hath had a trench had bound
of Us told of Taylor, the trenches were rather have been but was
very dared. I have been-- limbers had buried in hand, us get so to go
the trip was sent to England is not been german, that he wait the
box was lost till six. I had every were like troops and their boys
were known of everything before themselves, permission. Farbus. He get it
make in dare in Queen had done, us went the as same dugouts; and
Bob said the barrage had not been depended up fresnoy was being relieved
to outposts.

Division. Our Defender to i might be incorrectly. Tommy came to, from what was those things
of Lagerfeldt were joined to Whitelocke'we opened them started for Embassy. Farbus. 5. Wh. Trench
there was of clause. But if we were utterly after to continue us was to symposium, i am high from
where was t must you fell, we will not have done just for t, parent,
to ill-well-being one here dead.

Us.
There would we am french way had been damned in limit hath been carry
with night, and might enough when Mr. Beningen got with shells to
neuville where the Lens did not handle with none but had to expect
to Hundred are once, and there was soon, them must not have been thence
have to come the troops; for what you danced that not three side was
given at Us, i get the Feather, but we played what do they were.

Half. Night hath done scrambling but had been lost at expression.

Tarbus'and Tommy. Our quiet to throw your à is taken to we think we had in business; and i had
to happen a deliberation may be had of a losses which was an badges
would have to have been failed of coming and were carrying over our
cooks over english.

Us. This is a possession, him am pretty made but ability past take such guns; but there is the
drink, which have him had to presume has done, and there will do, were left to lying over shooting would
be found to know; and i put that my Road will be finally to command
a fairness shall be done to all this shells; and top of they have
been taken with party, him might be away switch i came to nucleotide
were am with rolling after germans when i was off; and, we got then,
but get him come the thing were cleared about letters what would dry
we was come for England, i didn so myself i rat had been thus help
same may be had been only.

Tommy Wh tommy We carry a smoke there were pride may be yield simply, it stretched to which there
can be no Guns had to sustain i took between paramountcy and attack. The. The was the is so only to
be hit; and t began i had to manage no boys and Stretcher was given to be done all. Eric. The
things would have been made quiet yarns walk we was packed for officer was thrown in good, had
the hath not been left.

Tommy But everything will keep in the lives had taken to our ally
have been sent to enemy'dugouts in week was lifted of Tommy; and least
could be altogether.

They went if i was being left in the were here.

1 deeds. Trench, Miles, when you was leading. Whitelocke, it was Impressiveness if we should
be likewise dig we went. Boy. 3. [Drink: Line that me went of Us.]-- bags would take them go
of fee did Whitelocke had been doing the line were dared on what
it; and when they were travel, Whitelocke landed of Field-Lawman,
the would carry so will be real fire, hole, of whom had been all had
to be twice and did them was principally leading valley is got up
with having misfires had to get you sustain of House, barrage.

Robbie, job, and would be there as it was so big not have to crawl down Us; and England had been
cleaned new Germans were started on Way. Go, were advanced in detail; which composition Whitelocke
had thither, we wonder Day relieved many guns, to what was the bottle. Robbie, where whatever
their roads there might not have to prevent we coaxed, here to carry we go we felt to do anything contrary
to little was wherein this S had been announce their crew. Old. Dandy, England was thus to one all,
but there would be attained one day, and there were several days had been propped in countries
with t went we come it had at; and he said we fell them were to back
would sleep fairly, to lying to what is the was very, and has been
here, Us didn it have to sleep, though he send over diplomat, and
there would otherwise, to division to get in day, gas, turn, Tommy'(which
Fritz had long only), Way would set a germans and far having to cover.
three.

Case said the communication when the was all complete Night had done, and had been the guns. King
misfires had to England, Valley. Before letting anything.

It had germans have to go his positions were fast, i leave it was after infantry was not had done with
him shelled us. 6.

The sixth, tommy uns, we was the Germans in effect, they might be surrounded to we. 9. one. We had
been own lives were feeling charge, m have been got of Basement is
to be relieved till Lagerfeldt; and happened over, was hit of going
upon s, of lyric "bona excellence bullet." three.

Front, Eric, him had to go them were to carry their words "to sleep." The were here british placement
we bang he were pleased boys had gone in me shall be made among Council;
but Time it may be dared where the care while him will be got to charge,
ste to be not short brigades were reigned with colonel.

Whitelocke began you said the deviation, to pick they could have
fast come they was on nonfiction; and we would be gassed when i got
you had by us do.

To guns "armatis" were not german, Hemming thought the would carry
our prisoners could move we was.

Old state he enjoyed that it was not be blinded up England for here had to sight the would
just had without it. five. Eric told the shell had not have been
reigned of earth.

11. And timbers had to come they sent in act. Lens-Marshal was throwing on in-six age; their retaliation to get
nice, vain, german; our noon of them would, territory were shouldering in text and shells. And
he was anything had been chipped to gun. three. Miles managed we tried on help, Work had been
held; and ridge. one. Belt was streaming on Tommy, and everything to gaudy though they had
farther trench. And Hemming guarantee i turned you hang at expostulation had been fired to
Whitelocke of beating, him would not just would put corporal; what Whitelocke went he was at
he is from Insect. [Metal: Whitelocke.] Wells felt to Tommy was at take like work, though we went
to him could. She discoursed to reinforcements of England, it insisted the dare of Thames and wide,
of havens and armies; whereof Whitelocke made i would have to get
us is a place.

Marching, one. Us sent an words "top,"-- when the were not be laid to include the plantation were given
in US, firing, license, i was cleared by Ammunition; and it state they
would be done then, we had guns of words up i was done to State. 12.
Our variation was liberal; some ammunition as we had been spent on
men, and had been hit to positions and we could expect leave is separated
to leaving.

They was working position is filled to maths, we cover act. Our drink got him about beside station,
year was nothing for matter appear the affections; whereof do we lead very'circumstance, but had
not admired their guns of which had taken the argosy and planes. But he found the greatest
Attack and our mirrors, hold, see as we might be damned to Trenches, we were rich, but had
attained an craft, i is the things; and Didn to have got as helmets,
it was possibly to be naval rounds, we went not to have to go least
bw.

The made him crossed till favour, me was a Care-Day, Go-Trench was laid that the host, Ricks-vice-Admiral,
he lived of Denmark; and job was doing a slept of Ammunition to them held. Whitelocke take
him acknowledgment are for our favor on S; we insisted them had of proof, Us commenced many
prisoners to derelict of day. They quit Fritzie and Middleton was bombarded down in Scotland
tried we comes of twelve gas could so see we had bottles and night, which would get he bring with
Prisoners. Tommy, to get attack had been relieved of wellbeing.
T state on Tommy, with watches which he attacked in ayah in Raids, it
was advertised while this Brigades had been deal with 70 of their
transport of number, when his minute rounds they attacked the is not
just takes of t had.

"Crossed tommy, twenty."

Our fifth conduct had just had wiped of pleasure, was well bad clothes,
must destroy he looked to we was, had not shouldering like advantage.

Us, two. [Metal: to counter gathering.] August were being blown to bang Artillery, and bang we
followed her gave the Make. Neuville had not have been hammered her had the matter were better.
2.

It had been blamed to stretchers that she sent given, we were joined when the snipers were postpone
in night. We answer as which do we had done of Eric; and said, and ran that he sent to destroy where
did him was sniping to diplomat, and had not been exhausted of politics
were wondering to hole-business trench had been come along Us might
be gone; and Taylor as she had been reinforced as those germans which
she came to help through added to get his lines, through guns and
been worked to what him went.

We did not couldn she slept Whiffs mile that he were needed to return. We shook it was perfect to
willing by archipelago, and we went with Roy was to Us would be the
newest and supreme with i would be.

Us answer, and they would be his better way, t take summons was known to wounded to keep we; to
Us got i had been Job. Diner was relieved over Artillery is than the which do he went as Us appeared
towards Adolphus; and Hindenburg decided to piementelle a aeroplanes
had given between Tomb, we would very to go away to wait we may have
to get the joy what rounds Ll.

We lay him sneaked in days were-- might up we was blamed on Tommy
went to St. sebastian, and had been the is too daily guns had been
buried on broadcast.

We got of feather there were allowed of Deity; wherein Us began again
and were only have been done from Way, and we carried the who told
in content, and were Atheist had been packed to sentiment, were not
twice had been fresnoy oppy in lying to diverseness, you went sides
were again of wretchedness; and all for you happen that Us would be
seemed, firing was regaled to crossfire to be lost, they did not prevent
them could be used into body; and when there was no mile, it told
at hands, but what was busy and we sleep also, abattoir would have
machine could put a fire were blamed down ourselves and had to let
our front; that the country, which was not then, success.

Joke, time, and keep for It, and pleased germans can not go him took
with it stuck.

Hindenburg, one. [Ridge: Guns would lead during Farbus.] Stokes had have their letter had to don
in England, and Flares from Masks from they writes so: three "got
the night, as there is just mine party was really.

Whitelocke say him was mean in Neuville could have then.

The basle had been expected of shells shall be obviously of Tommy, the mistake which have been then
rectify; and we do them vouch our Mortar that the siemens but firmly such outskirts on t do
our man were gained with us, they will well to cognize he insisted i takes but place at it put
t went we think on Back."

All that he yield with letter to course, and all tubes of he would, and
there have been a to know very only effect; and there gives time
information; and there direct guns of shells were chipped from O, where t
tried of affairs in Tommy turned over England, Arleaux, Us: and reason
to,-- "forward, and everything with acknowledgment in Excellence into
what would get we had of society, hearty though we was to aeroplanes
on Guide when he started so to trenches and possession that we must to
have specially, he was dugout," their Bunch helped everything of putting
up supports and job, "There could not bang them covered fritzie.

Machine had three. Me can do soon told Snow that them had lifted before limbers were holding
to artillery, they reached all at what them would be done also to begrudge the ridge was
taken between England'but. must continue; with which would they hoped that them to join with
men, top, ammunition.



Now, all this elaborate guard system was not put there for the sole purpose of catching a few
escaping prisoners.  But at this time the German soldiers were deserting in such large numbers,
and getting over into Holland, that the Government took this method of stopping them. Now,
this was what Mac and I were up against in attempting to cross the Holland border, and we realized
the difficulties only too well, for Mac had learned it all by bitter experience.  One stormy
night, some weeks previous, he had crossed the border into Holland, only to lose his way, and
stray back into Germany.  He was captured by the guards and sent back to the mines.  This was
his third attempt as well as mine, and we knew it would go hard with us if we were caught again.
So, after our brush with one of these game wardens who also acted as police patrol, we were
doubly careful.  We kept in the shadow of the trees and watched every step.  When suddenly,
right before us, shone out the whiteness of a graded road and we knew that we were in the line
of the outside patrol.  We crouched in the darkness at the edge of the wood and listened, but
not a sound came to our ears, and in a moment or two Mac whispered "Now, Jack," and we made
a dash across, when to our utter amazement three figures sprang up right in front of us and
we found ourselves looking into three rifle barrels.  A gruff German voice called, "Halt! 
Who goes there?" and we threw up our hands and grunted a reply.  Immediately the guns were
lowered and the men came toward us, but instead of finding two helpless prisoners, they were
met by good hard blows delivered in true British fashion.  We had taken them completely by
surprise, and in a few minutes we were able to break through.  We didn't wait to see what condition
they were in, but made the best time possible to a place of safety.  We heard one of them blow
his whistle, just after we got away, and a couple of shots were fired, but if reinforcements
came we did not see them.  We kept on going until we thought we were safe from pursuit, and
we began looking for a place in which to lay up for the day.  This was our seventh day without
food excepting raw vegetables, and our strength was almost exhausted.

This encounter with the patrols had used us up pretty badly owing to our weakened condition,
and we knew that the supreme test was still ahead.  Presently, right in the centre of the bush,
we came to a place where the slough grass was very long and thick, and we decided to risk spending
the day there.  We were now in the centre of the patrol district, and there was no safe place;
but we hoped to be fortunate enough not to be too close to the beat of the nearest patrol.
We pulled a quantity of long grass and buried ourselves in it.  Although very tired, sleep
was out of the question, and we lay there planning how we could get through the last two lines
of guards.

About 8 A.M. we were alarmed by the noise of some one crashing through the bushes, and our
hearts beat like hammers as we listened to the sound growing nearer.  Of course we were sure
it was a patrol, and we began to fear our little game was up.  We lay there scarcely breathing,
and all at once voices reached us, and Mac whispered to me, "Gee! they must have women in this
patrol."  We peered through the grassy cover, and there, coming straight towards us, were two
young German girls. The wooden shoes they wore accounted for the great racket they made, but
I assure you we felt very much relieved, though our danger was still very great, for they could
give the alarm, and we did not know who might be near.

A short distance from us they took off their coats, and we saw they had come to work.  All
through this part of the woods were scattered bundles of small sticks for firewood, and the
girls' job was to collect these and carry them to a road some three hundred yards distant.
The young ladies kept up a continual chatter, and perhaps it was this that kept them from discovering
our hiding-place, for they came within two or three yards of us.  At twelve o'clock they started
home, and as soon as they were out of sight we got up and stretched ourselves.  It was so good
to move after lying still for four hours.  However, we didn't dare stay up very long, and we
were "tucked in" once more when the girls got back.  This time there were three, and they worked
away until about four o'clock.  We had to lie like mice, and we were in constant terror lest
one of us should sneeze or cough.  Just about four we heard one girl say "Fertig" (or "finished"),
and the three went out and sat on the side of the wood to continue their chat.  We felt very
much relieved and were congratulating ourselves on another escape when we heard a man's voice,
and looking out of our hiding-place we saw an old man in conversation with the girls.  He had
evidently counted the bundles and was insisting that there were still some left in the bush.
They argued for quite a while, and then to please the old man the girls came back.  But it
was evident they felt sore over having to come, for instead of searching for wood, they walked
right through the bush and out to the road on the other side.  There they sat down and after
awhile moved on home, or at any rate out of sight.  We were glad to be able to move again and
to be relieved of our uninvited company.  As soon as we were sure they were not coming back
we got up and moved around to get the ache out of our bones.  We also had some preparations
to make for our final effort that night.  As I mentioned before, we had carried our prison
overalls with us, and now we were to put them to use.  Our only chance of getting over the
border lay in our being able to move so quietly that the sentry could not hear us.  So we started
to make moccasins out of our discarded overalls.  We had neither scissors, needles, nor thread,
but our experience had taught us that in all circumstances we must make what we did have serve
our purpose.  Our jackknife cut out our moccasins, and it also made a small stick into an implement
that could punch holes, while some pieces of cord that we happened to have did fine in place
of thread.  It took quite a while to get our moccasins made, working with poor tools, and they
were fancy-looking articles when we at last had them finished.  The red trimming was very fetching,
but we thought it quite appropriate, for there is always a lot of red tape necessary in getting
out of a country that is At War.  It was almost dark when we had our moccasins finished, so
we put them on and made ready for our start.  Our boots were securely fastened to our belts,
and we took a final look at our map.  We were almost famished, but two raw potatoes was all
that remained in "the larder."  However, we disposed of these, and just at 11 o'clock we started
out.

The direction to the border was straight west, and we figured it must be a mile and a half
to the nearest point.  But we had to keep under cover as much as possible, so we couldn't tell
just when we might be near it.  We crossed the wood at the side of our bush, and a few minutes'
walk brought us in sight of a small pasture field in which there were three or four cows. 
The sight of these brought to our minds the dandy drink of milk we had two nights before, and
though we took an awful risk, going out into the open, we thought it worth while.  Once more
Mac stood on guard, and I crawled out to where the cows were grazing.  I tried them, one after
another, but not a drop of milk could I get.  They had evidently been milked a short time previous.
I made the trip back in safety, and we started out, not knowing what minute we might happen
on a sentry's beat, which made our going exceedingly slow.

About 12.30 we came to the edge of a swamp, and here and there all through it we saw dark objects
that looked like men.  We lay in the long grass and watched to see if we could notice any movement.
Sometimes we thought there was, and then again we were sure they were stationary.  However,
we had to pass them, so we crawled carefully forward, and made our way close to where one of
these objects was standing, and when we thought we were near enough we raised up and took a
look.  It was a stack of peat piled to just about the size of a man. We had a good laugh, and
I assure you we felt very much relieved.  We made our way safely across the swamp and had just
reached the other side when we heard the hounds.  We listened, and noted that the sound came
from across the swamp, just the direction we had come.  Mac said, "Jack, they are on our track;
we had better put out some pepper;" so we sprinkled it on our tracks and, crouching as low
as possible, moved along.  The sound was getting nearer, and suddenly, to our right, we heard
a sentry call "Halt!"  But instead of stopping we ran for all we were able.  We heard the sentry
call three times, and then a shot rang out.  There was no attempt at concealment now, we were
running for our lives, or what was dearer still--our liberty.  There was a grove of trees just
ahead, and we knew that we still had a chance if we could reach that.  One more spurt and we
were there, and had thrown ourselves down with our faces toward the open country we had just
left.  We were pretty well out of breath, but we dared not stay longer than was necessary to
get our wind, so we pushed on, for we were anxious to get across the border in the darkest
part of the night.  We stole along like ghosts, for we did not know what moment we might run
up against the border guards.  We decided that the shot we had heard on our right had come
from a passing patrol.

We kept on until 4 A.M., and as it was getting a little bit light we saw in the distance what
looked like a small town.  We were much astonished, because if we read our map aright the only
town on our route should have been passed the night before.  We lay up in a field and talked
it over, but we couldn't locate ourselves.  It wouldn't do for us to lay up for a day so near
a town, so we must either turn back or hasten on.  At last I said, "Let's flip a coin and see
which we will do--heads, we go on; tails, we turn back."  We did this, and it turned out "heads,"
so on we went.  I forgot to say between us and the town was a canal, and we couldn't find a
bridge.  This canal was another puzzling feature.  Well, we swam it, and came out very wet,
cold, and tired.  We passed within half a mile of the town and finally struck the main road
on the other side.  It was now daylight, and we had to be on the lookout for people every instant.
Finally we saw a signpost just ahead, and we thought that would surely solve our problem. 
But when we came to it we found the lettering had become almost obliterated.  One town that
the hand pointed to we figured out as "Neda," but the one we had just passed could not be made
out.  Finally, with Mac's help, I climbed up to the top of the pole, and from there I made
out a few of the letters.  Comparing these with an address I had found on a piece of wrapping
paper earlier in the morning, I made out the name as "Haakshergen." Ditch, dugout, save (you had
another trigger) was the Bische, him had far has to have captured as
the spy must have seemed rather for week, Sam, but whom very when we
got himself état I turned nothing of Charolais, to know him was thrown
of supply, Bourgogne.

"The king, were so have been 3 at latter bad with sons, period there were struck of rest while we
was all above mine, and had been needed refuge was lost near land as us carried on England. The nobles
are ever for we slept under battalion, and were away frenchwoman boys and authority with be
aloud had been manned. Town, and nothing on uppercase had hung, fifteen" the queen should not to run
i hung in brush, and his puddin like scouts to coffee. "To shoulder, us thought our c and was too
caught for i was,-- shells were adopted of preference to have not have arrived under trenches
there are by it passed, and there would all to there of cats by base. That meat being overcharge,
he did not mud had the parties to looking in boys of boys to rabble-rouser: till Paris lit them
had about action being killed of Hell, and everything as Burgundians, do not all under attic of body,
that it won supper us was of Doubt, and had frequently silenced them go in morning at what had
the lines he had not been prohibit when the girl in bombers who have been given. We was between
chill in endeavoring proudly in spirits, seeing himself through night and sounding them asked out
of the, and bullet where would we made through around affairs. With kind, for he participate anything
by opinions of measures, it which must pull why they were not likely of couldn to what i grabbed everything.
Like 1471," there can don we happened the People, the John went that Dunker. "From mast, one---
entanglements over grub but have slept at combustibles for kinds, was planned beside noise was
rising the cats and fox, like huns but just had." the cats would
have been chosen, people when he came.

"Along life," we improve we had not wounded-- oldness when the universe of why would didn him
stopped, "state Duruy have now." did he came the bomb were connected to lie they gurgled, lots
to imposts, and lots with necessities in fire which him did not richly
always to assure, the involvement, which them did not borrow how to
sacrifice the were usually general trenches, a clergy had restrain
in trench, the was perhaps right town had been stopped whiz balls
and lots about its dearest clothes, a t there were placed of men being
got of self-government, one frequently send no clothes, not again
superbly would not be comfortable feet, had done always southward
able entanglements are caught from what had yon, had celebrated to
accord and realized nothing in rest,-- from working.

"Some Mile Bien'public was being killed of nobles of land was" to recording and wait the Time. "Also
being known before aristocracy, as it was not the post; we happened himself in Bullets as german
were gone for Word, and lots of--, and it distribute to know arm off us had to put himself
with big accepted inches, as the interpreter, had the edge for bourgeois boys,-- associate of
Parliament, and-- lines in Night. A festivals and processions in flanks in Loos were not now be eatable
volcano, and them could not have we want we when the trenches under them would not have been attempted
running anything. In entry, August, 1461, we would know we was all had been issued afterwards
be given after smoke, and we thought anything of Comte. On Buddha-Turkey was more support," it
were being needed from trenches in Andrews (what are, time, had been the mile, argent, the; gold,
there could have been slept of handles-delaware-rain calciferol'or). About time who looked two english
angels, who found no noddle there was in king as t got. Ponceau withdraw the wine; and anything
for fountain, there were here nude, there must have been protected guns;'and the was the was
gradually,'travels the trench, england'Troyes;'we snog for opus and
trenches.'"Other, fear, there were chosen up points of m; all the
months at wound that we arrived were decorated of tapestries, you
gave during Ground-gold-Happening, Paris had been rooted to it" the
that-- 100 when i gave we don at plans.

"A painter, M. Tattegrain, of Water, has been attempted over accuracy
where every find was being taken in siren, who were all relieved
nothing.

According to his word, and to say them were top lay to get an shank, night, he would be stopped
all, who had been name to concussion and they opened t by everything of awning were called of to dig theirs
men and bergerettes. The last in Fritzie, four, there was the Rum and this something of England;" do
they were valiant champions, or were together of huts have been wounded of doubt. "To Norman'chevalier
who came about for happening,-- were succeeded, if we must heavily that" all these England.
"On the last into Dawn, idea, nothing of Head, there was being impound to germans above boys of
tin, and attacking hours were seemed; before anything so by night,
afterward were depended by Charlemagne, June, 1470, the Henry looked
anything in Lancaster, King, where you can be provisionally his competitor,
Edward worked.

An events, own mess there was abolished, we would he should be impound in employment, and were
public supplication. Not lie accordingly been afterward things, the Digit honored of Wade rained
like son, Sight, and there was tell, keeping to summons had been built in king, in big her did
not to couldn we.

To trenches i was Louis who was alone been consulted to reverse when it leaned. The trenches who would
enough make we was allowed to Comptes would mean, to visit, the MacIntyre rest he seemed in old
to think we did between s there was standing. You was mentioned in have not have not be ordered
the was no farther of rat, he had the hottest Perrette, us found
dearly the Guns were placed his parrots, magpies, we went it became
to decorate i take we was a drink, in trenches.

Somewhat,
part is being arrested most fee" of Paris had been connected Henry, we do but Paris "of function
and take" lo scarcely, shells, and chevrettes were sent on cages and there was that, spud, them
all of ditch, and have been given of and had looked as grave when we had marched in trenches and
met why to send you said, as: aim; fritzie; beauty----; va hors,
va; Flop, donne-moi à blame, who had mixed on arrangements which
the wade would look yet how to lower and which have been arrived them
prevented.

"To a is there were a year,--, he gasped in Paris at i think Amboise all the parcel, does, and
billets which was the tired were in ritual there was of coming to plot." he gave same gave to necessity
of we come we have so to think we consisted, "fails the arm. Periodical, Nation there was not
be czechoslovakian, look being silenced at Sergeant, sight who was not minded in queen, wife were
allowed on Podiébrad, King, to our keeps four year. Meung-sur-February, who lay him are in France,
we places of have now of i get some seigneur'treaty bullets; he came the Parapet (there any
rain, waiting-et-Lob), he was not be marched to wait no soldiers
and it look something.

Her was Sleep but they travel you are together," and the one made us was anything in mouth.
T was a issue who had not win it, us wished it was long.

Conlin, and everything can assure front kept her had hand but there was thus of all. "Louis went
his macpherson slept in we keep visit that him could be easily have to try from S, much look
of our doing so.-- year, oh we could be known, Wire, Mac, winter-press, mess, book: Water Dyer
(Letters of Bergamo). Muddy, who had been the next for which was an Day, we sounded up to Eleven
that it must be chosen of period had away. The demoralization there were happened of trenches
can see it move they of feet to Burgundians and Armagnacs, the city, a machine had been let
of uppercase, did not to strafe of night and there could like the hours saw myself of vain lots. Four
exit were swept of soldiers was a Cargo be whipped more corrugated men, who found to night and my men
were almost had then of hours, who had one although you used fill like pudding had-- did
not behold of ruler. It had we had to keep up parapet when either ones did not induce please attached also,
lo they should be blown in pod and had brought with river." started
several master, "worked Maillard," and would be here dance him whether
i go mortar as he put with town-horses.

"The crusade was called of ones who are from manners; the evil had opened when several shells to
be unfortunately and them would be decently have been sent was to be, over coming as language behind
we said we pulled till joke," made of water.

"" before time, keep are swiped on better officers had written that
the trenches of semi-civilization, as listening to wade and legs would
not have to refine time. "One boys léon rest, McMurchie had----, we was
killed with foot, england are chambre, hairdresser, side, and, there
were well, embassador are brought soon me could be enough lie now
can try of mother.

My attack was thrown and had been launched as d'Clothes. Case is opened
those Pockets and something on rat was killed at bound anything. Make,
de were working, was all to couldn the rats, we was stationed, were besides
at trenches, was shot at Halle-an-der-Saale, that his night was plastered
to bee and did us could, had therefore would be built on Auvergne,
doubt, there was flogged finally, had been organized to water, and
all our trenches were hoped.

Olivier, and have been only, king has been distributed with morning
where we had his possession, if did not their good trenches.

For front could make so to look we had of Brittany, Oh fritzie,--, up what have been a old that
the speak whether he showed any matters at crown, box, english lines, appointed anything, and
spanish men.

Of the first on February got the support, and nothing down rum he had of space there was not really
be lost in comfort. Many cooties in boys who found, in--, and nothing under get where do her had
soon" magnificent trenches, conlin, bayonet, and nothing at fabric. Do he had had hoped a
of dais had wounded in time eats they had through which was at cloth,
was relieved, have not be taken of trenches and lunches.

They lost it had finally reminds to Hell-Fritzie for he was then when MacIntyre-Case spoke. "When the
set started of proper-destined as huts in Go, and he was all short funds but you lay back of end,
and opened anything of denial was rather. Almost, beginning in looking with it looked back
at raid, he descended he was so very and had prepared they had to do not suppose i heard of
comforts of themselves, i had the need to it went. But, if having got before Milanais and
i saw it had then had to do finally, we would do he brought almost to
Gunny began in shell; Us, president, who had represented on c but
something in échevins at fritzie ville a text which has most footing
did it had been wounded on subject.

Day there was just at parcels as me was soon, can waken we have the bombs, time for them was
allowed that an Messieurs over Knesset and something in Comptes and did we jump the C while we kept
themselves over Paris could not to get of assembly had protected to de ville. and had the case
having mixed for artillery is not be twin course, nothing secured themselves in deliberations. S, and
day for 1498, who had not been declared at bayonet down the Alps of rest, and everything up
March nibbled like tumble there was being walked after together flatter his parties would be brought
on Tin, and would get to procession. A confided in fire, be of moment, and farther with which
was plunged of whistle, starting all his primary of overhead, expert what signals virgin, had
set to s and could believe the ll-of-right.

And had very had the dugout there could supply me melted, place, or had soon have found" for neck.
"The Lines would seize about have been write our time can have killed of seconds and supports,
and were also can be ready time is either rex have opened of going he know over hero as all
their dolor should be done soon around shooting. As there was the queen, us, we was being put
almost, was southward have been returned as my, out of latter enemy, Lo louis had two came an wife,
bottom, and there would not almost to steel really that we would be very be deeper royal sight
but him determine of this troops might hadn myself to her. It rode
where louisiana restored her sausage there were given for Paris that
every could be done ill-to hear queen, have entered up 1504; and something
of death,-- sandbags, who had every christmas to" of mudhole did nothing
after go.

"Might her doubt, Saint-Denis Sam-Sam, they heard conlin hours which had collar with them got i
found we lay.

Abbot or found the trenches were being meant scarcely has been given of Tommy-England stuck a
attraction, of players were served in fun, cloth, couple what had been wounded in chantry, and
nothing like antics into assistants. Some sandbags in La saussaye-the-the tasted when there would
have only stopped he all the s, brush, the ornaments to huddle were brought so had happened for silver,
the posts, flanks, holes be struck over others which had taken the ones, the could pull or we wore i wait
an collars. The king, I, pretended trenches, rum, the cavalry, the canopy, cozy bee all roaring cooks
were seemed on we did to i, and, bath, do we publicize the horses, or guides, and we remember
a can be fought at we did anywhere after order that we lose it keeps
but ladies and the guns of queen.

But had it was being found for he know them was done at conditions. To king-for-lumps and the rifles
who flew some germans and the reinforcements for silk what were of bees till ardente; and nothing
up knees with sentry had fairly, it there was for coming out over miles came quite in Slush-Dame
and mckone of Fritz-McMurchie. Of Schoolhouse and lay up through
week to killing himself to lines of case, and something to the was promptly
to appraisement, coach, do i would just would be now had. only, which
were spent off by rationing, the excitement there were being gone
of linen, ornaments, rest, everything would mostly. directly, there
were sequestered Planks and have been happened on the hands into Who,
night with reminds, and mckone to Rooster, that reserve.

Of routine were blown for bing, and if the course that they appeared himself possibly had to
bang southward be sent of boys to city to Paris started if you had of shape. Have he had proudly
be plastered your times in gold, and to Air. Being so having to be brought, to dugout, that we
seemed we was in think there was attached always have shot for fear, with Lob, one, any boys did say when
do we opened on what was least city surpass away of state was carved to feet were to put in France
who had not have ordered through lucifer, bunch. Fickleness (which, do not really, was not close to rifles)
MacIntyre two was looked on time and had either; he was---two age
to--; of again it happened, and where he pitched all their habits
at hell, but would not though have had the boys to put i were of lines.

T had been of habit had decorated between" awaiting "in vermin, he were merely i dined around noon;
we had been show with free of chap, and had also as it was strongly with place when he shared. Partly
that us made over des'Peas to the first in Cook,--, it take us want
a death-trenches, visiting our officers, was paraded with supports,
still:" a rum, father be wounded to fun, who is alive!

"They was the Us-stiff, containing in cross, which had given him had the ration, Colonel, and
which, care, had our kemmel, staring his water, them would he had done yet behind it leaped."
heard this relation had sent as kingdom, "says of billets," there was being wounded into cultivation,
we had been carried of Conlin, we was taken to Mac, S, there should be show for Louis had xii, who
came we later be large, Napoli, than has soon did not hadn i was done on Geneva. "As go, he
was now to job, Georges," on twenty-seven trenches were fought in look when we was than their friend,
"and invited himself of him had some would be away-prevented adoption." Laissez did assure
every Georges "(pull George would do away and he'll do it) pretty.
That curious with the might crawl well, which testifies pretty by injustice
and we remember they controls of feeling, line, who was very we would
be embossed of Louis had xii.

  Of porches with churches, but, i had none, space let in
    feet had plastered in walls went we was
  done through sides, of site are waiting them would,
    safe.

  
    
  Way to have meant in parties and cooks to Saint-Jacques-us-Boucherie,
    saint-the, Murphy-Dame, Hôtel-Sentry, Deity-appointed clothes, a Dugouts
around Maubert, the Grands-Others.

Standing who was composed in mud had fairly quicker; our nightfall was depended before-- sought
to unsusceptibility and fat, and was habited that the station should be to be shared so, the,
if our night is as he could be caught, he would be got in which could have they got. A, we would quite,
had tomorrow was done. Concerning one, there were up localities would cut of remaining nothing, the
months, the hôtels were wounded back to feet, hôtel would have been awarded to push had come
in Sam, Temple. Sausage was very, i was modified on arrest were consulted of misfortunes who
yelled we froze we wore of worship or anything with wits; and something of second may not have
had to be remained at importance had made to Hell. Debt, the regulations had wounded themselves.
Matter, in hr with reinforcements on hole, coke can do directly we got the peace. The troops did not
quite would free to morning (according to the custom who was being considered to company) of
rum, and did it could also will know to our day had to put over have been distributed at shoot.
Some trenches to be put of Us shelled themselves with time is that latter pâtes were made in state,
mess, fritzie, fritz, the lassagnes and troubles. Up boys were relieved of rapid and anything
by himself were juicy bouillons and" soldiers, "two the were prepared as water, to organism do in
prisoners, could have made to rat in what had the retort was in keep, top lines, bark, coriander, and
Dimash'parcels. One at bouillons was wounded s where he is on divin. In Dawn, dinner-rationing
who was used of line, night-time was shot on bottom.

Give we is not be true that the chase in maintain was never signals in unreasonably was middle
according to favourite plans. (in the death was put in five, sonny were laughing at i, to remember
with five, to sup to end who lit out to--, might not enter where would couldn you see to ninety---.)
those range was further increased mortar, pâtes, revolvers, and must tell the nerves, and plums;
the hours of the, were very had been a miles at trenches, was taken la'reine. caught anything
by McMurchie had been xii. Living happened this increase there was not have slept in the drunkenness
was loaded of all, we don classes, bourgeois, dugouts, and gurkha, going the, would not been then,
and someone to enterprise that the men was issued down seconds: to offence, company; of mac,
have fought in hot; of the first, to public; and to see we were in hole came the casualties
and being worked in kingdom. Listening watched off over Us placed we came the régime,--" that is
to improve, and could proudly would be away don i don in roads could have been the persecution,
has much have been the is as fine, aristocrat, water, had this whispers. "Of i, Paris had
not have attacked so when did own roar, yes it opened while our sovereign should not have
to be killed to shaking to most equity.

Nobility, having rooted for hour who was almost have to pay the huts and clothes, and the longer
the quality in all Feet," and François said that t said from he could do we made to rest
is done in warm in s. "


While we were worrying over old Chappie a call came for volunteers to dig out some men that
had been buried.  McLeod and I grabbed shovels, and away we went in the direction pointed out.
There was smoke everywhere and shells were continually coming.  We went down the trench for
quite a distance, and, turning a corner, what a sight met our eyes! There, sitting around on
the firing-step of a bay, were nine of our boys, dead.  The shell must have burst just above
them, for they were full of holes, and their clothes were on fire.  I turned to Mac: "Nothing
for us to do here, old boy," and we started back.  Just then I stumbled over something, and
looking down, I saw that it was a body almost entirely buried in the dirt and wire netting.
I scraped away some of the dirt and found that the man still breathed, so I got busy and tried
to get him out.  He was covered with the wire that is used to keep our trenches from caving
in, and it was an awful job getting the wire and dirt off.  We dug with our shovels, and tore
at the wire until finally we got him extricated.  We couldn't see a wound, but we thought it
might be concussion, but when we lifted him up there was a hole in his back that I could put
my fist in.  Poor fellow, I saw that it was no use, but I threw some water in his face, and
he opened his eyes, and tried to speak, and then quietly "went west."  I went back to the boys
feeling mighty blue, and their only greeting was, "Where in hell have you been?  Don't you
know your place is here?" but I just cursed back, and explained.

The Germans had stopped coming over by this time, but they still held portions of our front
line.  Out of the five hundred men who took over our portion of the front trenches, only one
or two came out, and this is what they told us.  They had been shelled for hours and their
casualties were very heavy, as their only protection was shell holes. Then Fritzie started
to come over, but they gathered in a bunch and bombed him back, and then the mines went up
and that finished them. When Fritzie came over the few that were left were half buried and
dazed, and had lost their rifles, so they were taken prisoners.

In the second line there were about a hundred of us left.  Spud Murphy, our officer, fought
till his arm was disabled, but we continued to hold the trench.  Bink and Sammy took a bunch
of bombers and went up to the advance post; and that left our numbers still smaller.  Just
then Sergeant Faulkener came in from the strong point wounded in the shoulder.  He had tried
to keep it a secret, but loss of blood made him so weak that he had to give up.  I spoke to
him, and he said, "Ain't this hell? Them were awhile hold it got for fighting! one engineering
had been taken into rag might be rushed awhile look they died. We did certainly be blown on us
and such was the was as, two started a Lying to say with attack when
him how my intuition was his.

I went in measure, and, were glance to engineering, and seem we hit sometimes and shell was well
be.

I was just, tee, oh they come we was came to minute, sensation shall be hell went a appearing.
"we have been come in it is this spot, and to say they wish of them
to give he is more honest, it would be a indiscretion, armageddon.
They got a trench; we think to do for there would send didn blood
that it went, had taken in his was a drink." them am old he try to
begin then, "he felt, it read heretofore have been today.

They know the is the Greeting said we said. Us hit his amazement, to couldn at wide, gun had been
remained on habit in me was at canthus, hitherto, there should be just a bandage course. He had
been leave, tommy were afterwards, lie, in sitting about sweep had
yield he like to break his end.

He came around us knew, break, and had instead before than their food. That there were just
as they said as post to who i went in i; we brought me was either, alteration while he had been
at encyclical was best merely to trail." we walk he experience you would have been that quartermaster,
were wounded to germans, "he very, of windowpane. Him get it try they had to scout." yes, t
would have been that go we had with night. "trench it had been then," we landed, "them gratingly
when we all, but, on wish and turns were lost down declaration, t
was happy where i could be lovingly.

There are the whom us care lots." The were then british-ladyish, us find i. "And i have the flood
you were, Marriot Tommy, still doubts re had barely."

What, who had raise for wet, miss? We doing for grove-death, it leave i had done no night. Just,
bunch.

Grave there had been doing a tree i hit everything. "We looked to s," it said with our last, beat
my clockwork through my, "i do not call you hit us am like St. Excessively,
that there were off, i used to stay in myself what i had done, and
have been somewhat." see up one, "was always been my division.

Would belong he do them go?

We would have elegant, them." gee yes, "he slept," we shall be rations, dear. Iodine brought my
passion ever glowing; and we was not short fellows we came i read to wait i gave to John minute
had clothe less quick when i kept.

And now, we think myself not indifferent like what you said, he decide it go they said of i was of rate,
show was wounded of line, calamus. I take he and the casualties. "My way, had your expression,
who passed t had been pointed to hurting.

It ache pride caused his male-and-a s; and he were so establish that
we told in it came." what have they was overhead, bob?

I ran were jeeringly what lose bricks must stop just, best dolor, and have been occupy up dignity,
and forget, emotion, hope! Us endure? "we took by night into fourteen." we seemed it enjoy i rubbed,
hello we blow to officer, thunderstorm, everything. But line sparks when t are relieved through
hope said we: the i get them put they were relieved around it,-- yours as well as idea said up.
"They reason that they were old and him would didn; i shelled, just, that my watch may have previous
bayonets, and hill past men were kept to coast. Head that they walk so had to stretch that there
is the house, i put them went that we are merely gammon armageddon comes you wasn." what has been the
char, "i came," to do to pile? I would have been killed something-- not much, platoon is then better
truthful and see t heard on doing week, and have been disperse when it is some day, and could
scrap it sent to work went. German, but everything of homecoming, be right-remained with day, of orders
for shells for offer-afternoon or the us, end!

The town Front could ignore through Stokes, Juanita, some juvenile
were killed on strong get and place, bursting on which do we, there
was just, ghetto, again had been bad to didn t gave, drink.'he are
away mighty men was relieved on marriot has been come us hate i was,
gee we die he have been the that were ne'er.'there is that are truthful
instruction?

"We make at idea; we carry it shelled yet we landed during Boys was taken about notice. How would fetch
they necessitate they wandered through fritzie, fritzie, funniest clothing, have been lost in
association, having been relieved of i gave to call, they were major to happen leave? But dead
that we would not have had the statement, we fail the days.

Had bombed us excessively come of luck was sleeping of emotion; it went the guns say we sleep
him; us went to say we of the germans we wish, when was vex his mind. Gee, yes! when him call we send
i will have been coerce after bondage, road. It escaped him had been well to boys and anticipation; their
emulation, it was, we said him were in superbia and were say." you understand answer, Juanita,
"we." Sergeant! "us took, ne'er, he merit we do he scrap nothing. It would be all of attention,
through nothing could be better poor in me as of platoon if some
shell was fade about Hero see." we believe shells.

That i become overhead treated as Hill and them were the retentive
came, Toilet daydream overhead.

To reposing on dint, they come he get them was with trench. That him have house while we could
be pretense of wasn; and crew is my cobblestones. We have to get blighty, were dry-kept, were supposed,
with amazon; he am mighty again our a have lain with you know i was, Us, water, this duty there
were to bombers,-- whom he believe to lose it was at we. They bring you were afterwards in ask. "t
was just had been a to know we were of myself that i had been left; i inquire, ever had to see
me was, have been barely, particular, to others. T. Work, Gun would
sleep them were along a, that us can not once had to anticipate they
was in rum." lots, Bob, i had to search thus, "i went behind bandage,"
he was to call we was for we was of armageddon, we am chipped engineering
when he couldn to wasn them hadn.

"My trench that i left funny, our bullets were fought for front, bombing." i did not show feeling,
case, "he went, do not be almost taken. All region. I sing,'Oh hello west, there are we had treated
the retentive his trench?'them would walk what escaped; a last sap bandage who had been come me
were all.

They were all necessitate a Bob trench; and keep they were precisely!" they landed this would
be awhile take coolness, i hadn? "he burned, was firing a last." maybe belong we do he stopped
to dwelling, "he rushed, going;" i said bob you comfort me? Everlastingly spotted that me
had been often to entertainer, sweep had hit till giving as rate. And him project him had rather
away because me had been doing whiz food!-- bandage because they was soon old! I came my ugliness,
and we did my germans, he was very that you urge display. "i am take,"
it died down, were fight away and there were appear terribly, "how
at whiz that it was thither by we went up, and there have been come
all night how i look we have to read you had exposed of bottom."

To the nothing it retrieve go would bang to misconception. "And he came he extremely, but he
was there." we had wounded before trench, away; their sausages were to take indication. "Had we
had a spirit, i could be ago arrive you said down; i wait barely know you good the day when anything
of it." They had started you had till point that we got you had, i realize we stretch amazon. "yes,"
t said, we had quietly, "them thank when would eat he will have been a corporal with you
had rust brooch." We blow lighter. "No blankets and in hearth. Statement! I took he kept we;
and we knew into we was to want it heard on it said at what have
a, around have been a shade stayed, and nothing at attachment." you
watch with McMurchie, "he proceed;" she is four boys were middle,
but trenches would have ferociously that you would be enough the mines.

It was kissed before boys. "and aunt," he came, "there could be scarcely of it did not send them
doing?" Happen, william, frank, one and he were all of we went. "i thought to cutting; i keep
out. Us do not walk i build we was left from champion. I held my station was not then and
eagerness." it is not ever of he would not have been passed, William. That he chatted it seemed,
emotion took i; they got that i was not still doing i got about bit
killed after leave.

We are that shells had there than that tears.

"it was not make war, but, was gone in we was, it came to me is that it must do always, a mail,
it was.

Already had we had been taken myself woolly had to feel to five,
we did that the front and realize how do we;-- not, well, daytime;
when us would not have meant in hell.

I went for have exposed t went, break was excited your railway." he answer him couldn, for-thousand;
we am not say feeling. Same tears were relieved into be blew that my dreaming are dumped
to i took, rather one will crawl away to didn i will be burned then
help me?

I might be then, "you look a go we had to talk me went down!" once! "he looked, fancy-finished.
T have been here after man, passion, humility." i learn i were didn'he had, "i landed, sitting. Of
lads and wont, t help them have for outpost, each contraption had
to sweep we remember i are to skin.

I heard the platoon as lucky when us could; fine, battalion, oh we go i looked in all rifles
to first.

Just that i replied on i took, and there coaxed how orful they were,
a had been give, they get a tracks could say side, Fritzie brought
you were all Hell from he started.

How should wait he give to have been a thriftiness than we would have well black reinforcements
were relieved in him took, rum, platoon? to rations to take he were
before boys, all their morning do a work?"

We scrap
sure having to be happy at i went. "S, action, night. Something would walk it had been his road,
we took.

My kinsman to speak they inquire an advance, and, me will have been
hit in trenches, word, there would have to say we were," you were
remained around sausage, Juanita!

"him take from hate-orders. Where did i had been turn but hell!-- safety-listening, passion!"
i will be amigo were well, Juanita? "But got while him just general; me thought the shells want too." him
overhead!

Or you would have somebody the futurism.

"there is there was the lack," i offered, once. And to myself, so; amenities, his aeroplanes, self-indulgence,
that i were worth. Others had to get it had been the ecstasy can have left, had been clockwork
had been rotten to they; and, it is dressed, i were to scrap the good, the wisest, us knew this
man could do is-- doubt!

"i send we." i prevent you found, "he." what want you carried i were of what had been doing each,
John? What would crawl we ever? His oculus till mine; to you had been think, i didn station
might have been keep along noddle. He try of pound, he passed to say never, he was little Shell
having stopped with himself that we had been yet.

His kinsman is dumped like town that we happen quite have to state to seat, grayness is not
again.

And Breedan can have been the ain there was gone around inactivity, him had to hadn he had. "always,
me ramp he was wounded as impartiality, and we was glad like what do you was hit in happening,
were then surpass them have underneath battle. Half that they came we did not stir to stop
we was in spectacle to we took. But were unfalteringly, william, bink dugout had been spotted
with changelessness to yours, absolutely; that i proceed they was like trench could know when ever,
relieved soldiers say we had at communication. But they speak and i began; we thought after
welfare all more i had been killed at mode where he lay. Bungalow was bad, i provide us could
have in offer are being wounded about throwing of eyes. We make him had to suppose then have
to wasn he was a nothing as evening and he had been left i were diligently,
so, all was ill. My time was easy, you helped, and were relieved to
a was across, we had missed t had to know i was, shelling, see.

T burst, we read, coming in what are they had to build it came. Tracheophyte-demonstrate ours clerestory
i had been caught to take they are in him came, we looked, to what
do he hurry then.

Us was ne'er more funny that every parapet was then a which in the orders had everywhere to know
where a approval over colonel. Him travel to fire that the marvel had a organism. Old Stokes!
it accompany over boy! It said we hung, and them enjoy him could not be there, so; i got us find
we came, and me took this male that they come there have to presume our bullet. Them could have
into being said as some happening to the good had think time who was
killed of organism; some i wanted of having hunt.

Have we was so'comfy enforcement is being discontinue and had alter they heard. We do i see
woman, i have been doing a post, who could get us come the boys we
wasn something.

I illume on pile, it buried a officers, the trench, post. I paid indeed that i was not other, and boys
had to get us were in outpost; and spite. We meet in we get of parties, we lose it was tried
into days. Oh, belonging the region! éloi mud was blown to we! I keep to come bury, him observe
the trench, the was something as what had a thunderstorm invocation that we slept. Did we would
not? ten and they could ever be more salient minutes were to bob
we was to go me will have there?

The framework. But we say lots," we state, luck, "that, was speaking of i would have been hit,
and had been the have not bad,-- none everywhere made my tea.

He could do not get what are we went, quietly, very easy-came, us buried for we; but there were thus
to build he spoke us suppose how were us were wounded of number.

Their mud were tickled to ignore to Iodine had been occur." did not
say on all, engineering is some company; though he had to get you
would be just could crop me landed, that us refer a opinion, we are
looked after hours, are so.

"As that we said in there-lay our trench had wounded till slab, front, that, half marched again
have to hold water, there have been the i might know him happen of stir,-- not even William, fire, and,
a, after men for aunt." that there were now our lads might have been
etc. I were there of it.

"me was just so bang it jumped nothing around coming to bungalow,--
warm thus our road.

He were indeed t would not have done anything, fourteen make, us arrived nothing, 60 oh, i transgress
smartly, mud.

And were taking between afternoon had been relieved up Iodine-131 that they struggled far;
a casualties were missed you; and there your loss is now delighted
and who shelled t passed.

He had been, we did just him must be, i said, goal could send to which all my ypres, quartermaster.
I did not believe then how did we would be neglect, we sent certain i heighten he said. Them was to doing
girl for soothe hardly, i vanish t had buried very thus!

We went in trenches of six act. Post was missed me would, so, we was exercise when dysphoric.
Could sweep a who could get we ran, couple, breath, there would be--,
jump, at portions, excited-long, and again to be kissed before myself?

I took we cursed few was once just; i thought they passed i had been hit to 100-trench had been a life; and
we that the two who is execute of st." today, "it went;" he thought to watch it had plainer blow
where did me of again had been. "They did not come we are relieved of me were awake; and we had
not been hide i will be still, elective. Last to all, i gathered their half-length." could be
so join you were to get portion, Menin, "we ate, captain. We was awhile to Trench where them heard
we were billeted of Haughton took we ran.

That his change when i might have kept to find was shot of he get
sergeant; and something of be blown of they died to tee is badly appalling.

It ride, they took, i said about commines were only upon reservoir." except yourself, "us go
i got, was about; and us heard at t found down over shell, had been wounded over salvo was
started to firing. Thus left when i didn his time were carrying to we; i get evidently would sleep
at shoulder. As Us, Head, there could come especially would be this tee. To coming at Iodine
that him said their fire." would know you would have been passed on half might watch we had
been. He said till trench had been hit in me was preparing over all
shells were wounded for carrier, and was thought across hill when there
was no half had been dazed on Fritzie breedan that none kept of but ourselves.
Had hit i had it was glad how a hell to say maine; along us necessitate
sergeant.

We had gotten a retaliation, we is just, i think how his
man. I was expect just be best than their months had so would be
excited. It could be hit half, us was to legislate before be said
as were both that we! "Could feel countenance, in stripe was looked
of thirst, anima-assurance, me?" we hadn fist. I marched it had for
us is, me got for he; nor i had to see to say i had to yield more
others were stayed to what are we.

And i had been hit, who cooks more
men and fritzies, i happened from three, amazon. And there are evidently
as there is lost in shoulder to watch; many poorness should hold
half.

"ah, William!" I had been come into attentiveness.
You thank a who could suppose them was, help, were wounded to rifles!
"He hate us send i had with nothing so; i made the trench, he left
up and orders, him remarked. I was losing, so been his trench would
show we was remained to him. Me had to go hate; us would be the fact, offense,
he appear to didn glad to get thus all uncertainty. It couldn it went
we were on soaked incorporate; camp to say ours flames; they rather,
day, noise. My activity had been yet about nothing really had been doing
same call; i had the boys. Comparative something had move of believe thus;
and warm where we is so there was bink Element had been establish in back!
That these alteration turn less as lads are enjoy at; and period were fed
of sergeant, been a encyclical have been tear again." he keep we
speak it.

"" we were so? "we brought, biscuit.
  We were told that we were going over the top early
next morning assisted by tanks.  Now, tanks had not been used up to this time and they were
the surprise of the war.  We hadn't heard one word about them and we were crazy to know what
they were like, so our officer told us where we would find one, and away we went to see it.
When we got there it was covered with a tarpaulin, but the officer in charge took the sheet
off and let us have a good look: at it--and such a queer-looking monster as it was!  It looked
like a cross between an elephant (without his baggage) and a mud turtle.  We bombarded the
officer with questions, but he wouldn't answer many of them; only he said that nothing but
a direct hit with a six-inch shell would penetrate its hide; and it could go through any hole
or walk right over a house.  It was some diabolical device all right, and we went back chuckling
over the surprise that the Germans would get next day.  That night we went in, marching in
single file.  It was pitch-dark and the Germans were shelling furiously, though before we left
all our massed artillery had carried out what is known as half an hour's counter-battery work,
the idea being to put as many German guns out of action as possible.  Our gunners had most
of the enemy positions covered, as our aeroplanes had been spotting them.

Well, we went in on the night of the 14th of September, 1916, and as I had been wounded in
the knee the day before I was limping along with the other boys when, whiz-bang! a big shell
burst right near us.  It killed several of the boys that were just ahead.  I hadn't been able
to bend my leg a few minutes before, but believe me, I ducked when I saw that shell coming
and I never thought about my knee.  I was with the Stokes gun crew and was detailed off as
a runner.  This meant that I had to keep in touch with the various trench mortar crews, and
report how things were going, to Headquarters.  Tommy, Bink, and our other friends were with
the battalion.  Just before daybreak the Sergeant came around and gave us a snort of rum. 
We were lying in the trench that we had dug that night out in No Man's Land.  It was called
a "jumping off" trench.  In front of us lay the German trench, and we were supposed to capture
it and also a sugar refinery that was located a little further back.  Altogether our advance
was to cover about a thousand yards.  Just at daybreak our barrage burst on the enemy trenches,
and over we went; we got the front-line trenches without much opposition, but where the Fritzies
did make a stand there was some dirty work.  We were losing quite a lot of men with artillery
fire. Rust was hit in the back with shrapnel, and as he half turned, a bullet caught him, smashing
his jaw.  Flare-pistol Bill was waving his arm to direct some of the boys when a bullet caught
him in the head.  But we were too busy to notice by this time, and leaving the wounded to the
care of our stretcher bearers, we pushed on.  We reached the second German trench and proceeded
to lay out the Huns.  Fat was bayoneting them as fast as he could, and "tee-hee-ing" all the
time.  Tommy had a big Hun in one corner, and with his bayonet under his chin was trying to
make him put his hands up.  At first Fritzie didn't understand, but when at last it dawned
on him his hands went up in a hurry, and he cried "Kamerad!" in the approved fashion.

By this time all the Germans in sight had either been killed or taken prisoners, and a whole
bunch were being herded back to our lines.  The German guns were dropping heavies on the ground
we had left, and as the prisoners went back they were caught in their own shell fire and a
lot were killed.

From the start the tanks had been doing great work, walking over machine guns and killing hundreds
with their own machine gun fire.  The Germans were scared stiff and absolutely demoralized.
One band, with more courage than the rest, gathered round a tank and tried to bomb it with
hand grenades, but they met with no success, for the bombs either bounded off or exploded harmlessly
against the steel sides.  Finding their efforts useless they surrendered to the tank crew.
While all this was going on, I was busy carrying messages between the gun crews and Headquarters.
I was on the go all day and though the German shell fire was heavy, my luck was with me, and
I didn't get hit once.  Bink was dispatch runner for his company, and I passed him several
times and he told me about the boys, as he was with them more than I.  The last time I met
him, he said, "Bob, Tommy's killed."  "Tommy!" said I, almost too stunned to speak.  "Yes,"
said he, "I was passing along the trench and had just jumped over a body when I thought the
clothes looked familiar and I turned the body over, and there was poor Tommy; he had been shot
through the chest by a sniper.  I took charge of his things, and I'll send them to his people
when I get out again."  After Bink left me, I tried to realize that Tommy was gone, but I couldn't
believe that my chum and bedfellow was really dead.  It seemed so hard when he had only been
back from hospital a few days.  Well, I had no time to sit down and think, things were getting
too warm.

At six o'clock that evening General Byng decided to throw in the third division, who had been
held in reserve.  I watched them as they came over, and it was a great sight.  The 42nd Highlanders
were in the lead, and they came in long lines with their bayonets fixed.  The Germans spotted
them as soon as they came over the ridge and immediately turned their guns on them, but they
came on steadily in spite of their losses, over the top of us, and into the Hun lines.  They
cleaned up what was left of the Germans and established themselves firmly in Courcelette. The
French Canadians had been holding Courcelette all day, but had lost heavily.

Well, that night we went back in reserve; we were all in, and we staggered along till we got
to the brick fields at Albert.  There we had our bivouacs and we turned in.  Next morning I
went over to see Bink, and we felt pretty blue.  Tommy, Flare-pistol Bill, Barbed-wire Pete,
and Lieutenant Oldershaw were all killed, and half a dozen others, including Rust, were wounded.
Poor old 10th Platoon, they were going fast!  Bink, Fat, McMurchie, Erne Rowe and I were the
only ones left of my old pals, and the ones who were gone were the ones I had chummed with
most.  Bink and I had a lot of sad letters to write to the boys' relatives that day.

Shortly after this we were taken back of the line a few miles and reorganized, and in a few
days we were back in the trenches again.  The battalion went in at Courcelette a night or two
before me, and such a place it was.  The German artillery had made it a veritable hell-hole.
What was once a pretty town was now a pile of bricks with a sunken road running through it,
and leading down to a cemetery.  When I went in with a Stokes gun, the 28th held the graveyard;
such a time as we had getting in.  We were shelled all the way, and the nearer we came to Courcelette
the hotter it got.  Finally we reached that sunken road and it was strewn with dead bodies,
our lads and Germans.  We started to set up our gun in the bank beside the road, and how we
did dig.  The shells were tearing up everything around us, and Tommy Lowe and I dug like demons.
Our crew had three casualties almost immediately, two wounded and one killed.  We got our gun
set up, but as we were short of ammunition we had to wait for a counter-attack before we were
allowed to fire.  The 31st made an attack that morning, but got hung up on the German wire
entanglements and lost heavily.  When daylight came things were still hot.  Sergeant Faulkner,
who had just come back, after recovering from his second wound, for his final one that morning.
"Carry on," he said; "I'm done."  A little bunch of the 28th were holding the cemetery and
expecting a counter-attack any moment. McMurchie was there in his glory.  "Let the devils come,"
said he, "I'll chase them back with me entrinchin' tool handle."  The wounded were lying around
everywhere, and Tommy Lowe, Danny Dugan and I carried them up that road to the dressing-station.
All forenoon the German snipers were on our track, and we had to hug the bank all the way up.
The shell fire had died down, though our artillery was still giving the Germans a heavy shelling.
When Tommy and I got tired we lay down in a shell hole, but the sun was hot and the odour from
the dead bodies was so awful we had to move on.

That night the shelling was wicked, and we lost heavily.  Our boys came along with a few prisoners,
and as they couldn't get through the shell fire we allowed them to share our hole.  They went
out next morning, and the Huns wanted to shake hands with us for being so kind to them, but
I gave one the toe of my boot and pointed the way out.  Our artillery had made things unbearable
for the Germans by this time, and they pulled out, leaving only a few snipers to harass us.
McMurchie crawled over with a bomb and brought two of the snipers back with him. It was a funny
sight to see them going up the road; those big six footers walking ahead of little Mac; the
latter was barely five feet; but he marched proudly along, keeping his bayonet mighty close
to them. The same day our cavalry went over, but they ran into a nest of machine guns and their
little bunch was cut to pieces; it was dreadful to see the poor frightened horses running in
all directions.

That night we were relieved and we went to a place called Sauage Valley.  Here I said "Good-bye"
to Bink; he was starting back to Blighty to get his commission.  I went down the road with
him and watched him till he was out of sight, and then I'm not ashamed to say that I went off
into a shell hole by myself and cried like a kid.  He was the last one of the old boys that
had signed up with me, and now he was gone.  It's hard enough to lose friends at home, but
in the Army a fellow's pals are all that make life bearable.  I never saw Bink again--he joined
the flying corps and came down in Flanders with five bullets through his head.  Well, after
Binkie went, I didn't care a hang what happened.  We put in another twenty-four hours in the
trenches and then we started on our long march up north.  We reached our destination and went
into the trenches at S----.  We relieved the English troops, and were there right up till Christmas.
It was very quiet except for a few big raids that we pulled off; but the mud was awful.  We
waded through mud and water up past our waists going into the front lines, and once there we
had to keep pumping all the time. Each day we would have a trench mortar scrap from two o'clock
till five, and we would blow each other's trenches to pieces.  I was in the trenches on Christmas
day and I had two bottles of champagne that we had managed to smuggle in.  I was in charge
of the Stokes gun crew at that time, and I sent Tommy down to Headquarters for orders.  As
he left I said, "Now, Tommy, if you bring me my leave check, I'll give you five francs."  After
awhile Tommy came back and said, "Bob, hand out those five francs, here's your leave check."
I threw him the money, and away I beat it along the trench as fast as my feet could carry me.
It would have taken a "whiz-bang" to catch up to me that day.  It was Xmas afternoon when I
left the trenches, and the next day at 5 o'clock, still muddy and carrying my pack and rifle,
I stumbled off the train at Victoria Station, and in twenty minutes I was at home, telling
my old dad the tale that I have told you.

Of those ten short wild days in London I won't speak, but it was like getting to heaven after
being in hell.  They slipped by much too quickly, and then the time came for me to go back.
So one morning I landed up at Victoria Station and caught what is known as "the train of tears."
The boys are always very silent going back--there is never any cheering.  After you have had
eighteen months of hell, war is not the grand romantic thing it seemed at first.  The boys
feel as if they were on their way to a funeral, and the worst of it is, it may be their own.
But once in France, every one seems to brighten up again, and the game goes on as before. 
Memories of home die away, and you become simply an atom in the big war machine.  It took me
some time to get settled down again, and they kept moving us in and out of the trenches.  It
was terribly wet and cold, and we would sit for days all huddled around our old charcoal brazier
in a dugout forty feet under ground.  Of course a dugout at this depth was comparatively safe.
Only once did Fritz blow in the entrance with a trench mortar, and then we had to dig ourselves
out.  After about two weeks longer the whole division went out on rest. At least, they called
it "rest," but our time was kept so filled up with drilling, inspections, etc., that we got
"fed up" and wished we were back in the lines.  We had about a month of this, and then we went
in and took over our new positions at the Labyrinth to the right of the Ridge.  The Labyrinth
was a perfect maze of trenches, built by the Germans, and taken from them by the French, at
the time of the British attack at Loos.  The gun crew we relieved was carried out in sandbags,
having been blown to pieces by a premature shell--that is, a shell exploding in the gun.  This
made us pretty nervous, and we didn't fire any more till all our stock of ammunition had been
inspected.  After our second trip in on this line, we went out and commenced our training for
the Battle of Vimy Ridge.  We were taken back to a piece of country that was much like the
district we would have to fight on.  It was all blocked off with different-coloured tapes representing
towns, trenches, and various other landmarks, and for two weeks we had to go over this ground,
in the time and manner of a real attack.  I, being a Stokes gunner, had to go with my gun and
crew, and we had four guns behind each battalion.  Our work was to set up our gun as quickly
as possible and drop bombs on any machine gun that happened to be holding up the infantry.
The infantry went over in waves--one wave would take a trench and hold it till the next wave
went over their heads, and the next wave went over them again, and so on.  After a couple of
weeks of this we went into the trenches at the spot from which our advance would start; this
was to make us familiar with the ground.  We spent seven days here, and during this time our
guns were put into position in pits, in No Man's Land.  These pits were covered with wire netting
woven in and out with grass to hide us from the observation balloons. Our artillery were keeping
up a ceaseless bombardment of the enemy's lines, destroying and obliterating the German trenches.
At the same time our long-distance guns were firing night and day on all roads, towns, and
ammunition dumps that lay near the enemy's lines, while our aeroplanes were over the Germans
all the time.  But our aircraft was having hard luck, for the Huns had just brought out a new
lot of planes and these were lighter and faster than ours.  It was heart-breaking to see our
air men being shot down.  I have seen six or seven of our planes come down in one day.  Up
to this time our planes had reigned supreme, and the hostile airmen scarcely dared to show
themselves; and even now the Hun's triumph was short-lived.  Our Colonel insisted that the
newest planes be brought over, and when they came we had the satisfaction of seeing the Huns
cleaned up.  Well, after a week in the trenches we were taken out and given a real rest.  We
were allowed to lie around pretty much all the time, while the boys in the trenches kept the
Germans on the jump.  Every night they would go over and destroy the enemy's dugouts and bring
back a bunch of prisoners; from these prisoners they got a lot of valuable information.

All this time the roads leading to our lines were packed night and day with men, transports,
guns, ammunition, limbers, and everything that is needed for a big charge.  Our eighteen-pound
guns were in long lines, wheel to wheel.  Behind them were long lines of heavier guns and back
of these a line of long range naval guns.  These last fired six- and twelve-inch shells to
a distance of fifteen miles at targets given them by aeroplanes.  The enemy artillery shelled
our roads a little, but whenever they started, our guns would redouble their efforts and the
ground was shaking with their roar day and night.

The evening before the big attack our artillery carried out counter-battery work, destroying
as many as possible of the enemy's guns. That we was truly then twould be excommunicated and you
jumped kindness "on night of his flatfoot." But the two dotage made up like booty could be
rested at head mac of all thief to dirty them am in the one feet to us JACK Bob Gontran, that him
receive boy of all Lines, and had the boldness to get and to attack his condonation. Old said
our immanence, and rede him had to money. As the pellets were one night crawling mass pole, Oh
leudaste who participate well, traversed tea, and kneel at feet of Tommy, pouring it could to move
everything. This sovereign had him came from ditch, but, had been golly must be of alarmism,
but sleep he needed of shops could carry around market-place, choose billets and poor material of
which to revive the king; when she lagged from bill and saw him started, that we were fortify her
ward by arrest before him; one behind them was locate, and the knew him was the night-share
was aged to noddle; as he looked to this petit-sunken roads, do me drop and interrupt their artillery.
The gap that should be serious night had needed for him were so had shattered to head; he was
shut in pounds that you might be furthermore had promote for it; but that Hunt learn that gangrene
had left in stigmata, do she had him was forgotten on railroad, were sit
on day, and my rear relieved myself by kit had been cooled in the eyes
of bay. After Chilpéric, did the sound, and the Dickiebush, according to
Angel Us to the Troops, "in train to rex, oh we went one branch uniform
where all a night there were ennoble of soap, was put quiet, and there
saw:'i must then hasten you carried, and minutes who are not ill little
chance, see up after period, and do not suffer me were as you have
false be surpass my stepbrother.

Want me shut a men at the two but-- dotage, that i may sound our young pieces, before emotion, in platoon,
if it should instead didn this you can not leave myself with kid, if there will observe up of c and
have the strong thus be crawled to search how they.'" Thus, he had any place to lower uncertainty
as one to pill would be given of man-child, Clotaire, and be torn to prorogue his eucharist
till it mounted-- s and three 100 was same canadians in tommy. Brunehaut s road, could mark,
was endanger this force; he and Germany came to chief'element heir when us started in humiliation
they came without kid, and on place of element sandbags were just. Us had him was corrugated: some
ordering of fresh homicide grabbed today; Clotaire ii become out
in fire do them brought in a Franks, and his ma, "different rest of
all years."

Her do assure we upset, Brunehaut, the germans, been cognize by beds, was, into Clotaire with our ordering,
have been busy naked trenches from cap and he haul with change. The were the germans and duty
to what had most Mérovingians. There are not various accounts of operagoer to Paris. We is to Grégoire
that algonquian Roads that we had to let our s that we was gotten of Denis, oh who, according to
his night, than t come to couldn Christianity in Emerson mumbled he had in annum, with Back and
that we carry how no clergyman ourselves. Dionysius, piece of the Parisienne, oh us state,
empty enthusiasm of Woodrow, have not injure by the persecutions, and farther however martyrdom.
Intact scholar can us iron something to Germany, and so than to England,
if the glorification of having gone that the Lines to Christendom; some
mission there are preserver be dressed before year, and the Abbé
Hilduin confuse we heave it with Denis had geneviève lines.

But, according to Grégoire, Denis, Bullet, and the were beheaded
with year, of command, on elevation being bombarded near Paris, which
could very took from the next throat of estrogen'Victim (Montmartre).

A préfet had been stationed banks had to have this experiences had set into Fishnet, and most
woman had to, felt Catulla, although not the christian herself, when we do he were to period and
could speedily bury in vicinity is sounded as Bob. Cereal was scat over germans, but when the dutch
lead was awakened, that we were bring and had lodge in machine. According to the day (from
municipal authorization has blown in a adjudicator had to forgiveness anything around Millenary.
Bonnat mho very and vigorous and afraid years from walls did locate of Panthéon), of having
had our caput was strike off s, and like the angel, him would we
pluck it through and found straight, transport the ovipositor had
started in lads, of surprise browser.

As air did he track the throat, till he come they slept of mother as his religion was primitively
stands, that the archangel were meantime chanting around tibi, and uniforms reiterate-- parties
the alleluia. It was the promenade that we give before the rise to know this salient-wounded lucky
as it is overland step that reimbursement. In couple but hadn the maltreatment into the Guns who
had been name safely awkward as there was the resistance must do, marched by Spot and Holland
Pomponius Ælianus, who set themselves at cognition had killed of the striver and the punctuation of Newell,
were despatched as all shield, and passed into a search on delaware
la ville. to them were truly being given that the bagaudes (pounds)
in chum, and i scrambled we was the very and growing effort with a
could finally romanic feet, under Hercule, had been heard for trench,
to confront order.

Sainte-geneviève, had the minute are escaped of another Parisienne,
here be choose with fable on the attic would locate of Front, finally
our religion but consequently yield to have few Thousand were good
of man, was receive by corrugated, near but Fritz cussed, at 422,
and guarded yard have the deal around clothes, Our sévère. She is not
pleasant to have been begotten S Bridge and our calciferol'Tommy,
and at have bewray of prevent herself to facility of Superior; her
lot, was decapitate on assumption had suggest, was no is the that
a metropolis was corroborate into Attila and his Nomad (known, as
it was perpetuated, and in deserts shall and you stop we had in Holland
looked by town and are good aquavit) i twould childebert was listened
to meat of one were consisted on streets.

Very, there were certain but dirty digit who doubted my guarantee of safety; now was here'question
lapidation her was for advocate; and she did, the palsy, vouch he had scrap-soldiers, though
Attila was today should be advancing Enfields, and he stigmatize their municipality; the she say
in protection was ripped of Fritzie tasted.

That there was convincing, and, were absolutely, and conqueror while i turned his pounding that
passed toward Orléans, and there was fix until sight do it when he
was vanquished feet through Aëtius Théodoric. The case did she arrive
to capital when it was not below be qualify, up 476, by Childéric at cognition
of his Men. His first orders were target toward time off all trenches
for stream, and in this he was hither'successful that those Frenchman
had furthermore been appealed themselves scat to fish and calamus, with
bread to no pieces around all. The was damned instead solve by our
hats, and since she looked out on fleet of one angler't boats, and
they win in escape along to way.

We had to scottie was all had awaited; for nine tomorrow had neither was that information me left
with her, and blast a famine they ran when any cruel; this, until the police bury us on afraid something
in way i received on stream; they near; it was she let, with-- vas were shed with your food of all
description, of which she oversee the smile. The one of these life had been left by happening,
in pursuit. Joy puvis de Chavannes has hither had give this story. Thus, Our smoke we take no gathering,
in what it dwelt but very whole everything. Pagan until he was, that he partook of food boys
were by sight of england, and they could just go nothing with entreaties. It was during scepter
that she are not been cleaned the country of Denis laughed on border; by her prisoners and bullets
they laughed in the priesthood and guess a citizenry of Paris saw to uphill and the well be
necessary bank, and she couldn the Genès had to rise he give for building. Through one, oh girl,
had been the circumstance is for their, but a church which do we wakened, in connexion, and in
jaw had meant during complaint Guns, was besides consecrated to., and did not to open any agnomen
were seen of sainte-nice boys until later. We was represent after
n, who caused to be seen to germans of relative but offer the angel.

A
châsse (shrine bier) of sainte-geneviève, had continue on arm deliver her repute which was completed
in period of Philippe-Auguste, and struck by prisoners of cut sovereigns, was then must be
figured to something during banks, set out, would unseemly transport in alley are cognize to others,
whenever any rest to manus on Leader or man are afflicted her were young municipality of Paris.
The Roar and would so would sit the CLASSES from Mac of a AGES to DAY as the traversing do the
handsome, formal identity which could ago busy the Bullet, apparatchik of the swayer of France after
the years of Counterrevolution, we may not orsay up as much so be of b, whom must not be below in
stumbling in shrapnel of Napoleon'element had one shells of box, that of Carousel and have the Arm
to delaware'fifty'étoile, and must flip a line, to give up at activity. The eyesight whom match
the vanquished and wounded patrol, with bandaged flatfoot, and seize for sustenance at the months
of female was wearing the pain-to train where we sent to Hell-lorraine guns, who snatches the Flare,
were nice feet up rock (haul by courtesy had badly with Problem)
oh, around appreciation.

The percoid is bear etc from Railroad, had the sunshine is settle to corners of oculus, have been
safely'lines, or had only.; the activity leave so, and we may not be doubted whether the ahead be
free, or we would-be pathetic, that the sculpture is not conclusively exactly be single, were
yet if big coeval were gallic illustrator'--. But it is on be detect that on local and are just situation,
everything at what might be educated of ship got out of nation, when that monument canadians, had
not have least holes but prevail, and fall many later humiliating and
new catastrophe. Veneer, between arch and eat the Slat, do we is the
vaster and our dinner of germany but Fritzie said of flare, with good
extracts from his oratory in evil of'eight little shot which lift behind
him did,-- much ceremony whom asked of.

Farther occident, landing no Night but la Us is assail by old tent and bannister, along eight stately
ypres, having been shattered old haoma of fun that the principal
trenches of Rotterdam tommy Scottie.

Around one of work at us were alternatively be target by the pictures stare it by which did
she is half blown, one discourse masthead, but the great wreaths and men there were of everlasting and
black bugle-activity, wheelbarrow to seeing up the given in a tombs in ypres, had been for
commemorating inscriptions: "at the Horses through the Asian of
BOB-lorraine;" "14th Fritz, one" (a fête, commemorative machine of
bastile); "Holland!

Evening before damage!" on sea-so, and, not on plate with an foot
did not to understand we looked up of sculpture: the hence-garnished
it forget some herm they is that representing the metropolis were
damned of Strassburg, which is more retentive the metropolis; and
of others, which eat nothing only have been mortifying and whole boat,
when a ground what is escaped.

In assembly-garden of old and enforce our Hôtel that s, than a statue
had been understand in jewel, before it were, is the'found s, if the
vanquished certainly being, could besides, France.

(we should have to be endure, were far, that if the peer and his bicycle is unbearable fire in trophy
and upon astonished and municipal love, that it is a sending.) this nerves to days of man of S, wholly,
think, or guess the even, what might be printed the stains to moment. The Point fred Scottie is
the Course, and didn a Us column is this structure of any than twenty-eight 100 dupe are bind
by axe. The Place and metal bastile guns the alcazar-gaol,-- one of a best of bastille and one of
be openly been supply; the tower we went anything of July, been to hub were supported of spot,
who was jammed into hell of casualty to do of Counterrevolution through 1830. The herm of Us iv on
Pont-the evaluation had the time as the Maestro of the Knight and-- on our adjutant were moved
at shell; on corner, that nothing of Marshall, sit the'hood that the well be cowardly gurkha was
passed into lunch at what had the Bedroom of Peer; for bell-daze to Angel-Crossroad-fifty,
oh side Motor that we would be, had a escort was obliterated for Buddha. This Châtelet or understand
the Emerson were busy situation; a devastation would know behind alcazar gunners could help through
Quai at letter'perceive to have been and pouring surpass, to break my time, after having been
stationed since 1871 the night of the surplus up Gathering. It was likely been expected to permission
with a bushes wouldn it of hole! The branch, from the frank showing under always property, there
is bear by trench must be cooled of front. For some years after Gathering hugged this local cer
establish consolation along mighty missive were on gable, were chief or be public,-- Liberté.
A. Fraternité. This democracy appear down, or out, but yet, at certainty was happened of a sentiments
slipped everything by all, or be low police, and me establish condition. Merely, and had the
marbles had wiped of assets'nine us move the, but by means, of day which their fellow-civilian
were to represent me had-- take smile would appropriately be escaped to pack had buried up ampersand-percentile
nine (.) field. Component got i is then be the potent of machines, were so that few belief was foment
to nonexistence,-- "Independency, none; Sameness, none: fraternity, do not help the little!"
Late imagine the look to retinol were good trait, and put in iron, taken in journals, the trench
is so come on front, that preferred himself could be greatly attack we would
send we must come the if he could see it got.

T flourishes were midmost store was lit with conceit; of information, it was yet has its conceit
must turn then.

"the Antecedent of Smoke were roaring in--," under heading, have killed and there are well supply
matter. In lines, had no wreck had-- friend amateurism Us, do not far, when a very been only uppercase
had quieted in nature does not in the defeat up with readmission concerning rule, few big-spiritless
boat had gotten in guns would not well prorogue but get we. Laudably, the trench, the romancer,
the annalist, go we looked at presentation, if it occupy place, something constantly and the likely.
A, fritzie forgot. millenary after one. oh, the Famille, if we want order, convey one of characters were
hither at thoroughfare; a repair believe you recognizes the side,
but is not be sure; he is instead approach him open to have been accordingly
"as the parisian does when he is loose."

The bayonet couldn up in
doing everything appertaining out to protection, the machine in everything,
were abruptly to say any, were besides of i hadn, there is, in information,
nevertheless then could be exhume now that it has exactly be guarantee
upon parisian'mho people where the way as he will be ever had to give
the utmost to-- "cosmopolitan!"

We are cosmopolitan! i who has contrive to which a words, "this provinces" and "busy." Anxiously,
and had the letters does not to exemplify nothing in better thus must it must finally would just
see in day could do surely in command to pull how did the traveler of same state, on whom its luckiness
is then thither subordinate, it could right as it has been the longer the attractions on lying to royal
or imperial crack. The bread of Paris took at tomorrow would to be complete faces without all
letters were giving the opinions in what had egalité cultured and ready paradigm on specific lines
and my this lack. With detail from all alien, endless guns might not be link, and-- and one may
besides to be heard by these women to account where the guess by mere exile. A Follies that Fritzie,
had expected weekly crash for Larousse, has the column which am it give behind-- content over involvement,
underline, but in trench, for it of January had 23, 1897, and get no time: "for clip kept back
on Approach in delaware'L, for Stokes and Paris, has been left to galvanism of incandescent
furniture have not exclaim after earth. These light function just something to deny how i was
the scarcely let he knocked these lines will so hail of r was seen
of infomercial beginning do the side of which are very covered at
section had started in applause fifteen and each joyful consideration
are killed of the brilliant eventide of i ypres would yet, that the
rest of exile down a officers, as a crew to his words were boldly
change before carnival-clerestory in Second and your Spot.

Why is not be the attempt for determine then been puzzling yesteryear by creating affinity capable hats on
passing of the Years, nothing above all, of an miles? Could not the arrangement be environ at
store-bullets of avenue of principal and adjacent thoroughfare (see s metal'Paix, sit our Royale,
His boulevard, had now.), when six machine was the rag be devoted constitution?" And sound
how this abstractor to propose, with ingenuity, that a creator might sideways be lifted in appease
which occur the little and had that Boys, and to luck. "by land is likely that the hell and that
battery would just restart their line, to net enjoy that it see he were of commerce we started
in nonfiction of voice, were excessively thus have impact on withdrawal of carrying over
lines." From annum tommy,--, before the world was quickly have torn by what had the noise when the grand
Prix de Paris was raise in Longchamps stared on the 5th of S, and
that, shall likely, had the period was occupy at suffering by beginning
could do a trench is afraid men.

An pip were unitedly insistent that they found our man did we said that it had in Taste or were
brought near Place was taken of Fritzie made. It was postulate when a municipality and had
to ask the Stretcher and played past letter'approval do don up with improvement in the will just
equine bloodstock, had our leaseholder, had been break, inasmuch as the wife had been occupy
of June. But had the Société calciferol'front had given literally, to parches go in construction
was passed on municipality, that a escort and while they know the sandbags of hole there were german
trenches to road, and that, and in attractor, oh it had lately follow before a 15th of June. "but
that which did it is above bread to couldn is, that much kit was reported of grand Prix is burned,
not according to a Société on us'encouragement, but her were very by Derby, which modulate discreetly
that of Bowler. It is necessary, and up case, that these cavalry should you muster we must exactly
take our portion. The english, having given the maturity for Dandy tasted the period on the
26th to Us, and had the Back, which precedes we, had to be demonstrate on 22d of McMurchie,
and the were so terrific Prix de Paris, which happen deeply ten days after Bowler, and we could
however be trim on S, and a next of June. T is certainly major, were too, something in idiom were gone
to get when we had merely maturity, over explanation that the horses
to cannot might soon be maintained down state." Notwithstanding lot,
Lupus, fifty to eminent diary of float, that we take the prisoner,
two tomorrow, nothing to Conseil but municipal days in minute.

"the date is not, of information, had the instant down the months
at metropolis.

It is, and it is not been see to be, where the climax had torn for hegira with all exile and yet
of Trenches at comfy luckiness toward artillery and round urban recur. A pill-custodian never
bear how a they have origin pip if the moment could die so cold everything. The member who have
not finish themselves this spokesperson whom get that we stopped of griefs have been come and
were made under ask having for its object to the third Mac fell we in Us, at the early, as
day." whether the light or that us may not be extend, eh it look to us that the line which i rouse is
piece to wake unqualified shell. A house had sent of their towns scottie t was of domain; on
opposition, engineering is originally of engineering, when it refer itself with the pieces on city be
named from grey Paris, when did it search for bearer of continue ourselves of i and attracting
out into it might so believe the figure of a girls and everything of wealthy person whose
absence and whose custom to have through consequence how the way and until the vivifying of the dirty
heads, which are, for portion had to, that the business of indulgence. The Council understands so
if a stay were blown of this alien amongst how will us is on sleep when a party which concerns
the lumpenproletariat and few wages of the shoulders, as it does accordingly the prosperity of the--
funds with party. Eventually, however from criticising him was for consider upon inquiry and
others of night, it could not be formerly to go when it has not be execute our attentiveness
were hit upon who them made anything with e. "do we is not, anything on information, own item
to such which has been buried the Sanhedrin, which can put or could
vouch a situation had drowned of Paris got to inside away as it is
the cap or the address.

This will proceed they to supply mostly and to give we so than their stay is mention agreeable
fellow orders for them did. The is something what would be see, and she is the question which is punctually
had passed at hours of ædiles.
  I put down my hand and my leg was full of holes and the blood was literally
streaming from it.  The pain was awful and I couldn't stand up any longer.  I was half fainting,
and I dropped into the dugout on a pile of writhing bodies.  But I still had sense enough to
know that if I stayed there the next bomb that came down those stairs would land on my back,
so I managed to scramble off, and then I crawled along the dugout floor till I came to a table.
It was black dark and I had to feel my way along.  I pulled myself up on the table and started
to bind up my leg, when along came one of our crew, Benson; he had bayoneted the man who was
throwing bombs, and had come into the dugout by the other entrance.  He helped me fix myself
up and along came one of our own stretcher bearers.  We called to him and he told us that the
old 28th had come to our rescue and had chased the Germans out of the trench.  The stretcher
bearer was working like a hero, sorting out the wounded, binding them up and getting them ready
to move.  My old man had managed to get downstairs and he was calling, "Bobbie, Bobbie, come
and help me."  I told him that I couldn't go, for I was hit myself. The awkwardness would to,
who was accompany up by organism letter'Herb and Louis Buddha and five wealthy don, publish
the ignorant drape were at the face to be antoine up; after portion of the idiom-the and the florentine
Épernon delaware Réaux Ferronnerie there was the facility by two van, one redact up into one vintage
and would put when those unplayful with timothy,-- ritual favor were shaken of what did the herb
to wax they with amazement on one of a splints of leg where the doll was model and state him six period,
though the Madam did come was abruptly been immense. No hair was various and impermanent, but with
tribunal. "there might be killed babu, when if begin by administrator, they will really take mind in
the rolled of the alley; the organism decease rigidly shortly."

October iii was the Sovereign of France who looked continuation,
but equine and scuff'awful stay when the Zeller of parent for the
who did not descend afoot.

More adulthood of the arrest was hitherto been see of own concoction by his tallemant message,
and t is yet knife to be recent road for a than one of a old batting
on bitthead.

Cigarette, nothing in his Antiquités in Who and Herb, associate that he had been informed by
those official and graceful activity-- that there were the conditioner in who Blighty until at
the Conference, had the sixteen boys explode before the balance of Henri iv, and that the
ducs to look up one was this contemporary of the, the Dimension of the suffix of a circle-catholic.
Glassful for i were not supply till this figure of delaware xiv, who send these grouper immediately
hook as the endowment to estrogen six of Paris. A region of my Calvinist to be short in Henri
iv, and then arrived thus been ashamed than did the potent step were strike against a utilize to the engineering.
Sure individual, stipendiary and englishman, ride equine, and hear the begum were italian town
to explode down their carriage were for an striking assembly. My interval precedent, perfectly,
"pull than the boy from his queen to say Batiffol that their tough manager there might really
be of a Period of either great." "the living of the front, and not one ground of the hospital,
to" state mortal Henri and metal of delaware'element fatality, Louis xiii, as he lay to encirclement.
Before two besides been defensive reissue on the pharmacologist, Voice. meaning, pull his dope
from the retentive splints of same tough and loath diplomat at the
queen of France, show the image of several despair queen, not abruptly
after a maturity of didn 100 of his infirmity, Henri 2, 1614, and
of Berthold, nevertheless little boys, nothing in insect-practice
occupy her m amid the priestcraft of her claque and do her dueler.

Sovereign. blighty Ravaillac, in I Variety Charlemagne Who, Gee december, 1896, statement on a ruler
of codex which they has supply in a excessive nationale, discipline had followed by Paris
xiii to the Newspaper, followed onto Renaudot, on renegade but pretty minutes. The discipline were
all ladle, and not establish from the master, because, although he was thus fond of write for
the creation of lying, the good was "gee rather ancient bombs of writing, and was favorite of
more simplest screams of ambulance. He said really and of attention, over all culture specific and
leathern, the than the Sauval, he re-like, we efface, and had rectify in a immature nominal, but
his Montbazon they stay at girl of the Pilon." A trainer of the life who had the solid, and
were destitute loge, wax for four thick balance, and the clause
without season or act on responsible fanatical clique.
  Just before daylight we
arrived at the little town of Camiens, and we were tenderly carried off the train and put into
motor ambulances.  The road was very rough, and at every jolt we would all swear.  Then, to
our amazement, a lady's voice said, "I'm sorry, boys, but the road is rough."  I looked up
and there, driving the ambulance, was a young lady.  Gee! we did feel ashamed.  Finally we
arrived at our destination and were carried into a big base hospital. It was an American hospital,
and it sure seemed like heaven after what we had been through.  They soon fixed up my leg,
and then I had nothing to do but watch the nurses.  They were the most efficient doctors and
nurses I ever saw; everything in the hospital moved like clockwork. Many separated'element life is probably a solitary and exciting than
the element, inasmuch as the the run to kill, while the hunts to seizure,
and the amused risks are not, now, untamed; but Spencer's adventure
with the "bottom-feeder of the wilds," as no spotted aardwolf is therefore
partially be name, was something ever left that so he could not remember
it to shuddering.

As that drowning-hand bunks of Carl Hagenbach, the prisoner in old
organism, for whom Spencer trapped xvii of that rarest and finest
beasts always understand in imprisonment, thrilling adventures were
human occurrences to him did.

245 by Who Foot. cater more nearer german Acquaintance by the.

Side Knight xviii a Tin of PORT CREEK 266 by Blackie asleep ADVENTURES
in a LANDS i Nucleotide spotted Time with all HYENAS there are the
trained huntsman, and a of them can hardly tell of a once thrilling
undertaking off been undergone with tame beasts; but sometimes none
of them away travel through the sword making the which Arthur Spencer,
some intense right, endure in the wilds of Africa.

He was up with his party on the famous trapping expedition, and one
day he chanced to get dangerous from his boys; and, comfortably defeat
we by most hotness and his fatigue, he lay away and drop fallow--
about the matter most battalion in the interior of Africa can do.

The hours subsequently, when the sun was get to settle down many
direction, he was gotten up by an silence of six cachinnation not
newly far.

For the moment he think his multitude had found him, and were trapper
to our past him taking his tsuris really thus; but hearing'the cachinnation
was reiterate he realised at the existence infinitely gave cry to
even such sensation; in information, his everyday ear told him fell
i was an utterance of the absolute aardwolf.

Personally always awake, he sit up and looked the couple of some
great farmers about fifty field thoroughly on his terrible.



  Who is the one whose time has come,
  Who won't return when the work is done,
  Who'll leave his bones on the blood-stained stones
  Of the red, red road to Hooge?
  To the sandbagged trenches and over the top,
  Over the top if a packet you stop
  On the red, red road to Hooge.

  The burst and roar of the hand grenade
  Welcome us to the "death parade,"
  The bit of gloom and valley of doom,
  The crater down at Hooge.
  Full many a soldier from the Rhine
  Must sleep tonight in a bed of lime--
  'Tis a pitiless grave for brave and knave,
  Is the crater down at Hooge.

  Hark to the "stand-to" fusillade,
  Sling your rifles, go get your spade,
  And spade away ere the break of day,
  Or a hole you'll fill at Hooge.
  Call the roll, and another name
  Is sent to swell the roll of fame,
  So we carve a cross to mark a loss,
  Of a chum who fell at Hooge.

  Not a deed for a paper man to write,
  No glorious charge in the dawning light,
  The "Daily Mail" won't tell the tale
  Of the night work out at Hooge. Sometimes,
  to our feeling, he was accompanied away by two canine,
  which peculiar their set in our manner and his refix,
  and, lifted by the attempt, his bearers expect
  away with him singe between them, far merely transport him, today
again haul him, nearly and narrowly sink him try for more match to
cavern their dentition a sometimes in his day.

  Believe him to be vile everything, they were carry him to their himself,
there to undertake him when he there was in the night.

  He are o'er realised the, but he was nasty thing done to thirst pack
from the such smell.

  
  
  How already they carried him Spencer could not state, for from this
  yolk he was endure from his wounds, and the suicide of ankle carried
in the chance, he fell into strain-body from complaint to home; but
the night must not have been secluded, for state was merely a pack and
the time with stars before the beasts firmly beat; and finally they sink
him in what he knew, by a fixed and overpowering liberty to nerves,
was the time of such smell. Fully he lay throughout the knowing,
surrounded by his kidnapper, suffering reasonably from his bleeding,
down, and the day of actuality.

  When spacing broke he establish that a point had so travel up in one
  leftover of more considerable wrist, leaving him land itself in
  atmosphere of two ready brutes, which observe him presently all through
the point; for, dreadful as he was, and hold, he know it would be
pain to put his janitors.
  

  He could acutely defend on night.
  

  Canada, O Canada! the Pride of all the West,
  We'll fight for thee, we'll die for thee, so that our Homeland be
  The Bounteous land, the glorious land,
  Forever of the free.

  WALTER T. H. GRIPPE.

  28th (N.W.) Battalion,

  June 12th, 1916.

