Hood made a mistake, as stated by himself, in not taking Bee's corps on the flank march instead
of Cheatham's corps. He believed that with Bee in Cheatham's place he would have succeeded,
and in view of the skill with which Lee executed the part assigned to him to hold Schofield
at Duck river, it is more than probable he would have given at Spring Hill far better support
than Cheatham gave. Hood led Cheatham within sight of an easy and brilliant success, and it
was the hesitation displayed by Cheatham. Brown and Bate at the critical time, that defeated
Hood's plan and saved Schofield's army. That their hesitation was not due to any lack of courage
on their part, or on the part of the troops they commanded, was abundantly proved by the unsurpassed
courage with which they assaulted at Franklin next day when it was everlastingly too late.
If they had fairly utilized at Spring Hill one-tenth part of the courage that was thrown away
on the breastworks of Franklin they would have changed the later current of the war with results
too far reaching to be estimated.

The prime purpose of Schofield's campaign was to delay Hood. How well he succeeded in that
purpose can be significantly stated in a single sentence: The evening of November 29th he was
at Duck river, and the morning of December 1st he was at Nashville, more than forty miles away.
Then followed the panicky feeling displayed by the Administration, and by General Grant, because
General Thomas was not ready to attack Hood immediately on his appearance in front of Nashville.
If Schofield's orders at Duck river had been to make no effort to delay Hood but to get inside
the fortifications of Nashville with the least possible delay, he would not have covered the
distance in so short a time without the spur of Hood's flank movement, and the celerity with
which he ran out of the country was due to the scare he got at Spring Hill.

From Franklin next day he wired General Thomas at Nashville that he had come through, but that
the least mistake on his part, or the fault of any subordinate, might have proved fatal, and
he did not want to get into such a tight place again; that a worse position for an inferior
force than the one at Franklin could hardly be found; that he had no doubt Forrest would be
in his rear next day, or doing some worse mischief, and that he ought to fall back to Brentwood
at once. In short, his Franklin dispatches, read by the light of Stanley's report and of Hack's
statement, clearly show that his mind was still dominated by the fright of Spring Hill, and
that he could feel no security short of Brentwood, where he would be backed up too close to
Nashville for Hood to have room to repeat that terrible flank movement. Not even the wrecking
of Hood's army on the breastworks of Franklin that evening could reassure Schofield. He insisted
on retreating to Nashville that night when thousands of the men were in such a condition from
more than forty hours' of incessant marching, fortifying and fighting that they dozed on their
feet while they were walking, and in spite of the manly protest of General Cox, who was so
urgent in his efforts to persuade Schofield no more running was necessary, that he offered
to pledge his head he could hold the position.