Despite all their care, it was not so very long until trouble came to the sumac; and it was
all because the first-born was plainly greedy; much more so than either his little brother
or his sister, and he was one day ahead of them in strength.  He always pushed himself forward,
cried the loudest and longest, and so took the greater part of the food carried to the nest;
and one day, while he was still quite awkward and uncertain, he climbed to the edge and reached
so far that he fell.  He rolled down the river bank, splash! into the water; and a hungry old
pickerel, sunning in the weeds, finished him at a snap.  He made a morsel so fat, sweet, and
juicy that the pickerel lingered close for a week, waiting to see if there would be any more
accidents.

The Cardinal, hunting grubs in the corn field, heard the frightened cries of his mate, and
dashed to the sumac in time to see the poor little ball of brightly tinted feathers disappear
in the water and to hear the splash of the fish.  He called in helpless panic and fluttered
over the spot.  He watched and waited until there was no hope of the nestling coming up, then
he went to the sumac to try to comfort his mate.  She could not be convinced that her young
one was gone, and for the remainder of the day filled the air with alarm cries and notes of
wailing.

The two that remained were surely the envy of Birdland.  The male baby was a perfect copy of
his big crimson father, only his little coat was gray; but it was so highly tinged with red
that it was brilliant, and his beak and feet were really red; and how his crest did flare,
and how proud and important he felt, when he found he could raise and lower it at will.  His
sister was not nearly so bright as he, and she was almost as greedy as the lost brother.  With
his father's chivalry he allowed her to crowd in and take the most of the seeds and berries,
so that she continually appeared as if she could swallow no more, yet she was constantly calling
for food.

She took the first flight, being so greedy she forgot to be afraid, and actually flew to a
neighbouring thorn tree to meet the Cardinal, coming with food, before she realized what she
had done.  For once gluttony had its proper reward.  She not only missed the bite, but she
got her little self mightily well scared.  With popping eyes and fear-flattened crest, she
clung to the thorn limb, shivering at the depths below; and it was the greatest comfort when
her brother plucked up courage and came sailing across to her.  But, of course, she could not
be expected to admit that.  When she saw how easily he did it, she flared her crest, turned
her head indifferently, and inquired if he did not find flying a very easy matter, once he
mustered courage to try it; and she made him very much ashamed indeed because he had allowed
her to be the first to leave the nest.  From the thorn tree they worked their way to the dead
sycamore; but there the lack of foliage made them so conspicuous that their mother almost went
into spasms from fright, and she literally drove them back to the sumac.

The Cardinal was so inordinately proud, and made such a brave showing of teaching them to fly,
bathe, and all the other things necessary for young birds to know, that it was a great mercy
they escaped with their lives.  He had mastered many lessons, but he never could be taught
how to be quiet and conceal himself.  With explosive "chips" flaming and flashing, he met dangers
that sent all the other birds beside the shining river racing to cover.  Concealment he scorned;
and repose he never knew.

