The night we made our escape, they burned the homes of Grandmother Fristoe, and her neighbor,
Mrs. Rucker, and gray heads suffered because younger ones had not been noosed.

12. QUANTRELL ON WAR

After the Lone Jack fight, Capt. Quantrell had joined Gen. Shelby at Cane Hill, Arkansas, but
shortly left his command to go to the Confederate capital at Richmond to ask to be commissioned
as a colonel under the partisan ranger act and to be so recognized by the war department as
to have any protection the Confederate States might be able to afford him. He knew the service
was a furious one, but he believed that to succeed the South must fight desperately.

Secretary Cooper suggested that war had its amenities and refinements and that in the nineteenth
century it was simply barbarism to talk of a black flag.

“Barbarism,” rejoined Quantrell, according to Senator Louis T. Wigfall, of Texas, who was present
at the interview, “barbarism, Mr. Secretary, means war and war means barbarism.  You ask an
impossible thing, Mr. Secretary. This secession or revolution, or whatever you call it, cannot
conquer without violence. Your young Confederacy wants victory. Men must be killed.”

“What would you do, Captain Quantrell, were yours the power and the opportunity?” inquired
the secretary.

“Do, Mr. Secretary?  I would wage such a war as to make surrender forever impossible.  I would
break up foreign enlistments by indiscriminate massacre.  I would win the independence of my
people or I would find them graves.”

                         William Clarke Quantrell

“What of our prisoners?”

“There would be no prisoners,” exclaimed the fiery captain.  “Do they take any prisoners from
me?  Surrounded, I do not surrender; hunted, I hunt my hunters; hated and made blacker than
a dozen devils, I add to my hoofs the swiftness of a horse and to my horns the terrors of a
savage following. Kansas should be laid waste at once.  Meet the torch with the torch, pillage
with pillage, slaughter with slaughter, subjugation with extermination.  You have my ideas
of war, Mr. Secretary, and I am sorry they do not accord with your own or with the ideas of
the government you have the honor to represent so well.”

Disappointed, Capt. Quantrell left without his commission.  He had felt the truth of his fiery
speech.

Our tenders of exchanges of prisoners had been scorned by the officers of the militia.  There
was a boy who was an exception to this rule, to whom I want to pay a tribute.  He was a young
lieutenant from Brown county and if my memory serves me right, his name also was Brown. We
had taken him prisoner at Olathe.

At Leavenworth they had one of our boys named Hoy, who had been taken at the Tate house, and
we paroled Brown, and sent him to Leavenworth to ask the exchange of Hoy.

Brown went, too, and was laughed at for his earnestness.  Exchange was ridiculed.  “You are
free,” they said to him, “why worry about exchanges?”

But Brown had given his word as a man and as a soldier and he came back to our camp and surrendered.
He was told to return to the lines of his own army, and given safe conduct and money to provide
for his immediate wants, but he vowed he would never fight again under his country’s flag until
he had been exchanged in accordance with his parole.

There was a cheer for that man when he left the camp, and anyone who had proposed shooting
him would himself have been riddled.

13. THE PALMYRA BUTCHERY

As long as Pete Donan was the editor of the Lexington Caucasian, that paper once each year
published an account substantially in this wise:

“So long as God gives us life and the earth is cursed with the presence of McNeil we feel it
to be our solemn duty to rehearse once every year the story of the most atrocious and horrible
occurrence in the annals of barbarous warfare.”

