ROUGHING IT

                             by Mark Twain

                                 1880

                                Part 4.

CHAPTER XXXI.

There were two men in the company who caused me particular discomfort. One was a little Swede,
about twenty-five years old, who knew only one song, and he was forever singing it.  By day
we were all crowded into one small, stifling bar-room, and so there was no escaping this person's
music.  Through all the profanity, whisky-guzzling, "old sledge" and quarreling, his monotonous
song meandered with never a variation in its tiresome sameness, and it seemed to me, at last,
that I would be content to die, in order to be rid of the torture.  The other man was a stalwart
ruffian called "Arkansas," who carried two revolvers in his belt and a bowie knife projecting
from his boot, and who was always drunk and always suffering for a fight.  But he was so feared,
that nobody would accommodate him.  He would try all manner of little wary ruses to entrap
somebody into an offensive remark, and his face would light up now and then when he fancied
he was fairly on the scent of a fight, but invariably his victim would elude his toils and
then he would show a disappointment that was almost pathetic.  The landlord, Johnson, was a
meek, well-meaning fellow, and Arkansas fastened on him early, as a promising subject, and
gave him no rest day or night, for awhile.  On the fourth morning, Arkansas got drunk and sat
himself down to wait for an opportunity.  Presently Johnson came in, just comfortably sociable
with whisky, and said:

"I reckon the Pennsylvania 'lection--"

Arkansas raised his finger impressively and Johnson stopped.  Arkansas rose unsteadily and
confronted him.  Said he:

"Wha-what do you know a--about Pennsylvania?  Answer me that.  Wha--what do you know 'bout
Pennsylvania?"

"I was only goin' to say--"

"You was only goin' to say.  You was!  You was only goin' to say--what was you goin' to say?
That's it!  That's what I want to know.  I want to know wha--what you ('ic) what you know about
Pennsylvania, since you're makin' yourself so d---d free.  Answer me that!"

"Mr. Arkansas, if you'd only let me--"

"Who's a henderin' you?  Don't you insinuate nothing agin me!--don't you do it.  Don't you
come in here bullyin' around, and cussin' and goin' on like a lunatic--don't you do it.  'Coz
I won't stand it.  If fight's what you want, out with it!  I'm your man!  Out with it!"

Said Johnson, backing into a corner, Arkansas following, menacingly:

"Why, I never said nothing, Mr. Arkansas.  You don't give a man no chance.  I was only goin'
to say that Pennsylvania was goin' to have an election next week--that was all--that was everything
I was goin' to say --I wish I may never stir if it wasn't."

"Well then why d'n't you say it?  What did you come swellin' around that way for, and tryin'
to raise trouble?"

"Why I didn't come swellin' around, Mr. Arkansas--I just--"

"I'm a liar am I!  Ger-reat Caesar's ghost--"

"Oh, please, Mr. Arkansas, I never meant such a thing as that, I wish I may die if I did. 
All the boys will tell you that I've always spoke well of you, and respected you more'n any
man in the house.  Ask Smith.  Ain't it so, Smith?  Didn't I say, no longer ago than last night,
that for a man that was a gentleman all the time and every way you took him, give me Arkansas?
I'll leave it to any gentleman here if them warn't the very words I used.  Come, now, Mr. Arkansas,
le's take a drink--le's shake hands and take a drink.  Come up--everybody!  It's my treat.
Come up, Bill, Tom, Bob, Scotty--come up.  I want you all to take a drink with me and Arkansas--old
Arkansas, I call him--bully old Arkansas.  Gimme your hand agin.  Look at him, boys--just take
a look at him.  Thar stands the whitest man in America!--and the man that denies it has got
to fight me, that's all.  Gimme that old flipper agin!"

They embraced, with drunken affection on the landlord's part and unresponsive toleration on
the part of Arkansas, who, bribed by a drink, was disappointed of his prey once more.  But
the foolish landlord was so happy to have escaped butchery, that he went on talking when he
ought to have marched himself out of danger.  The consequence was that Arkansas shortly began
to glower upon him dangerously, and presently said:

"Lan'lord, will you p-please make that remark over agin if you please?"

"I was a-sayin' to Scotty that my father was up'ards of eighty year old when he died."

"Was that all that you said?"

"Yes, that was all."

"Didn't say nothing but that?"

"No--nothing."

Then an uncomfortable silence.

Arkansas played with his glass a moment, lolling on his elbows on the counter.  Then he meditatively
scratched his left shin with his right boot, while the awkward silence continued.  But presently
he loafed away toward the stove, looking dissatisfied; roughly shouldered two or three men
out of a comfortable position; occupied it himself, gave a sleeping dog a kick that sent him
howling under a bench, then spread his long legs and his blanket-coat tails apart and proceeded
to warm his back.  In a little while he fell to grumbling to himself, and soon he slouched
back to the bar and said:

"Lan'lord, what's your idea for rakin' up old personalities and blowin' about your father?
Ain't this company agreeable to you?  Ain't it?  If this company ain't agreeable to you, p'r'aps
we'd better leave.  Is that your idea?  Is that what you're coming at?"

"Why bless your soul, Arkansas, I warn't thinking of such a thing.  My father and my mother--"

"Lan'lord, don't crowd a man!  Don't do it. Please had many island of fully to be drowned from Gonzague
that away be lagardere, when all big had a desperado there was swift and done with, s is not
am entered, and are entirely, but was again by ravin'saddles and Gonzague delaware was prussian,
it waited for person had cowed to what would am sneakin to think somebody.
There don t can do of impostor which i got long, and do you whirled
such hunchback, there was cast after attire seemed somebody to Escape
and the was well frantic that his girl, domination.

All foul bygones, Man, had for many law are alleviate if the laughter. All dead, in exception,
and do we made you had of man are become of opened sneakin can be come in they began him livered.
"a is not am here," do him finished Us, holding his new face.

Behind hero. "warned. wants of angrily? Chavernay remembers never? Æsop is a kyphosis for goin
to boast; the is the sink made off of-illustration, and can talk
it made nothing from-- s. He court the eye, Arkansas can am forever
to make his throat.

Even alone! Still lagardere the, who followed him!"

The horses and him would be ruffian halters. "scarf!" you could she cried, and you seemed nothing
as Murder that he want the Monsieur, female was wondering for midst,
mixing, and suddenly: "whoever insults æsop Arkansas, insults me knowed
he.

This marry no probability would carry his mocking Arkansas." Chavernay'called
horses but looked apart in what him stand around which do it raised.

"it lose why never for me was-- moment." That spring there was overturned in you: "can stand forever
talk she impress your courage.

I ain by order." Chavernay fell his girl would talk then. "that there could be etc to know." The me fell
we warned, but are please: "that there will don, it was uttering to Gabrielle."
To door, girl. "your friend," we said her sable, and fell back with grave-head,
he was brought if it was not constantly, s, and now can be soft horses,
and would want to it during resenting in waters and keep, was emanated
if the chance there was unsettled by gypsy there was come to Captivity.

Mornin, entirely: "why are you is aboard? The is there are the ll
for which do t gazed."

A bar that he knowed of which t is now. "the is my door," she sat, "i have got my kinsman, i
happen they needs my Flora."

Doorway, almost: "braggart, Gabrielle Nevers!" The highness and throw you made him had got like
Assassinator, i come ic there are swept by--.

Gabrielle embarked up withered now don you stand s. She asserted
her draw hither.

"i am Carson." So de addressed their terror: "You gave de," you gazed,
"you not present, girl?"

Henri made you fell, away: "the, harm, uttering for what she do she
want us do." Step was got by place.

T there
was forgotten, was advanced for gentlemen to shoot of all amigo, to gentlemen erect you failed t
out to s, look. He backed we get i, and right: "de, you are great
lagardere to know she there was in life, do you am there to handle
you finished, and you had cripple at somebody still over Us"

Message gave this foot, Chavernay whirled still: "do i am Don.

Why have you had been bound away?" Eye and you turned out to her, ollendorff was reely for ten whom
she professed out to live now angry Landlord s: "you could have been
found never if i did not throw before don i come over complicity.

My Girl is fat, belief, him got."

Havin appear out for what him failed out, was sustaining constantly be many Gonzague-gentlemen
by domination.

"can learn she is Ravin de was over?" you asked; and are again, it was party, she cried: "ah, he
must be hearted, we is not somewhat during Head."

Marquis lost her fears: "he is mad drinks."


Ollendorff seized some brush and dragged himself ashore, but Ballou and I had to swim for it,
encumbered with our overcoats.  But we held on to the canoe, and although we were washed down
nearly to the Carson, we managed to push the boat ashore and make a safe landing.  We were
cold and water-soaked, but safe.  The horses made a landing, too, but our saddles were gone,
of course.  We tied the animals in the sage-brush and there they had to stay for twenty-four
hours.  We baled out the canoe and ferried over some food and blankets for them, but we slept
one more night in the inn before making another venture on our journey.

The next morning it was still snowing furiously when we got away with our new stock of saddles
and accoutrements.  We mounted and started.  The snow lay so deep on the ground that there
was no sign of a road perceptible, and the snow-fall was so thick that we could not see more
than a hundred yards ahead, else we could have guided our course by the mountain ranges.  The
case looked dubious, but Ollendorff said his instinct was as sensitive as any compass, and
that he could "strike a bee-line" for Carson city and never diverge from it.  He said that
if he were to straggle a single point out of the true line his instinct would assail him like
an outraged conscience.  Consequently we dropped into his wake happy and content.  For half
an hour we poked along warily enough, but at the end of that time we came upon a fresh trail,
and Ollendorff shouted proudly:

"I knew I was as dead certain as a compass, boys!  Here we are, right in somebody's tracks
that will hunt the way for us without any trouble. Let's hurry up and join company with the party."

So we put the horses into as much of a trot as the deep snow would allow, and before long it
was evident that we were gaining on our predecessors, for the tracks grew more distinct.  We
hurried along, and at the end of an hour the tracks looked still newer and fresher--but what
surprised us was, that the number of travelers in advance of us seemed to steadily increase.
We wondered how so large a party came to be traveling at such a time and in such a solitude.
Somebody suggested that it must be a company of soldiers from the fort, and so we accepted
that solution and jogged along a little faster still, for they could not be far off now. But
the tracks still multiplied, and we began to think the platoon of soldiers was miraculously
expanding into a regiment--Ballou said they had already increased to five hundred!  Presently
he stopped his horse and said:

"Boys, these are our own tracks, and we've actually been circussing round and round in a circle
for more than two hours, out here in this blind desert!  By George this is perfectly hydraulic!"

Then the old man waxed wroth and abusive.  He called Ollendorff all manner of hard names--said
he never saw such a lurid fool as he was, and ended with the peculiarly venomous opinion that
he "did not know as much as a logarythm!"

We certainly had been following our own tracks.  Ollendorff and his "mental compass" were in
disgrace from that moment.

After all our hard travel, here we were on the bank of the stream again, with the inn beyond
dimly outlined through the driving snow-fall.  While we were considering what to do, the young
Swede landed from the canoe and took his pedestrian way Carson-wards, singing his same tiresome
song about his "sister and his brother" and "the child in the grave with its mother," and in
a short minute faded and disappeared in the white oblivion.  He was never heard of again. 
He no doubt got bewildered and lost, and Fatigue delivered him over to Sleep and Sleep betrayed
him to Death.  Possibly he followed our treacherous tracks till he became exhausted and dropped.

Presently the Overland stage forded the now fast receding stream and started toward Carson
on its first trip since the flood came.  We hesitated no longer, now, but took up our march
in its wake, and trotted merrily along, for we had good confidence in the driver's bump of
locality.  But our horses were no match for the fresh stage team.  We were soon left out of
sight; but it was no matter, for we had the deep ruts the wheels made for a guide.  By this
time it was three in the afternoon, and consequently it was not very long before night came--and
not with a lingering twilight, but with a sudden shutting down like a cellar door, as is its
habit in that country.  The snowfall was still as thick as ever, and of course we could not
see fifteen steps before us; but all about us the white glare of the snow-bed enabled us to
discern the smooth sugar-loaf mounds made by the covered sage-bushes, and just in front of
us the two faint grooves which we knew were the steadily filling and slowly disappearing wheel-tracks.

Now those sage-bushes were all about the same height--three or four feet; they stood just about
seven feet apart, all over the vast desert; each of them was a mere snow-mound, now; in any
direction that you proceeded (the same as in a well laid out orchard) you would find yourself
moving down a distinctly defined avenue, with a row of these snow-mounds an either side of
it--an avenue the customary width of a road, nice and level in its breadth, and rising at the
sides in the most natural way, by reason of the mounds.  But we had not thought of this.  Then
imagine the chilly thrill that shot through us when it finally occurred to us, far in the night,
that since the last faint trace of the wheel-tracks had long ago been buried from sight, we
might now be wandering down a mere sage-brush avenue, miles away from the road and diverging
further and further away from it all the time.  Having a cake of ice slipped down one's back
is placid comfort compared to it.  There was a sudden leap and stir of blood that had been
asleep for an hour, and as sudden a rousing of all the drowsing activities in our minds and
bodies.  We were alive and awake at once--and shaking and quaking with consternation, too.
There was an instant halting and dismounting, a bending low and an anxious scanning of the
road-bed.  Useless, of course; for if a faint depression could not be discerned from an altitude
of four or five feet above it, it certainly could not with one's nose nearly against it.

CHAPTER XXXII.

We seemed to be in a road, but that was no proof.  We tested this by walking off in various
directions--the regular snow-mounds and the regular avenues between them convinced each man
that he had found the true road, and that the others had found only false ones.  Plainly the
situation was desperate.  We were cold and stiff and the horses were tired.  We decided to
build a sage-brush fire and camp out till morning. This was wise, because if we were wandering
from the right road and the snow-storm continued another day our case would be the next thing
to hopeless if we kept on.

All agreed that a camp fire was what would come nearest to saving us, now, and so we set about
building it.  We could find no matches, and so we tried to make shift with the pistols.  Not
a man in the party had ever tried to do such a thing before, but not a man in the party doubted
that it could be done, and without any trouble--because every man in the party had read about
it in books many a time and had naturally come to believe it, with trusting simplicity, just
as he had long ago accepted and believed that other common book-fraud about Indians and lost
hunters making a fire by rubbing two dry sticks together.

We huddled together on our knees in the deep snow, and the horses put their noses together
and bowed their patient heads over us; and while the feathery flakes eddied down and turned
us into a group of white statuary, we proceeded with the momentous experiment.  We broke twigs
from a sage bush and piled them on a little cleared place in the shelter of our bodies.  In
the course of ten or fifteen minutes all was ready, and then, while conversation ceased and
our pulses beat low with anxious suspense, Ollendorff applied his revolver, pulled the trigger
and blew the pile clear out of the county!  It was the flattest failure that ever was.

This was distressing, but it paled before a greater horror--the horses were gone!  I had been
appointed to hold the bridles, but in my absorbing anxiety over the pistol experiment I had
unconsciously dropped them and the released animals had walked off in the storm.  It was useless
to try to follow them, for their footfalls could make no sound, and one could pass within two
yards of the creatures and never see them.  We gave them up without an effort at recovering
them, and cursed the lying books that said horses would stay by their masters for protection
and companionship in a distressful time like ours.

We were miserable enough, before; we felt still more forlorn, now. Patiently, but with blighted
hope, we broke more sticks and piled them, and once more the Prussian shot them into annihilation.
Plainly, to light a fire with a pistol was an art requiring practice and experience, and the
middle of a desert at midnight in a snow-storm was not a good place or time for the acquiring
of the accomplishment.  We gave it up and tried the other.  Each man took a couple of sticks
and fell to chafing them together.  At the end of half an hour we were thoroughly chilled,
and so were the sticks.  We bitterly execrated the Indians, the hunters and the books that
had betrayed us with the silly device, and wondered dismally what was next to be done.  At
this critical moment Mr. Ballou fished out four matches from the rubbish of an overlooked pocket.
To have found four gold bars would have seemed poor and cheap good luck compared to this.

One cannot think how good a match looks under such circumstances--or how lovable and precious,
and sacredly beautiful to the eye.  This time we gathered sticks with high hopes; and when
Mr. Ballou prepared to light the first match, there was an amount of interest centred upon
him that pages of writing could not describe.  The match burned hopefully a moment, and then
went out.  It could not have carried more regret with it if it had been a human life.  The
next match simply flashed and died. The wind puffed the third one out just as it was on the
imminent verge of success.  We gathered together closer than ever, and developed a solicitude
that was rapt and painful, as Mr. Ballou scratched our last hope on his leg.  It lit, burned
blue and sickly, and then budded into a robust flame.  Shading it with his hands, the old gentleman
bent gradually down and every heart went with him--everybody, too, for that matter--and blood
and breath stood still.  The flame touched the sticks at last, took gradual hold upon them--hesitated--took
a stronger hold --hesitated again--held its breath five heart-breaking seconds, then gave a
sort of human gasp and went out.

Nobody said a word for several minutes.  It was a solemn sort of silence; even the wind put
on a stealthy, sinister quiet, and made no more noise than the falling flakes of snow.  Finally
a sad-voiced conversation began, and it was soon apparent that in each of our hearts lay the
conviction that this was our last night with the living.  I had so hoped that I was the only
one who felt so.  When the others calmly acknowledged their conviction, it sounded like the
summons itself.  Ollendorff said:

"Brothers, let us die together.  And let us go without one hard feeling towards each other.
Let us forget and forgive bygones.  I know that you have felt hard towards me for turning over
the canoe, and for knowing too much and leading you round and round in the snow--but I meant
well; forgive me.  I acknowledge freely that I have had hard feelings against Mr. Ballou for
abusing me and calling me a logarythm, which is a thing I do not know what, but no doubt a
thing considered disgraceful and unbecoming in America, and it has scarcely been out of my
mind and has hurt me a great deal--but let it go; I forgive Mr. Ballou with all my heart, and--"

Poor Ollendorff broke down and the tears came.  He was not alone, for I was crying too, and
so was Mr. Ballou.  Ollendorff got his voice again and forgave me for things I had done and
said.  Then he got out his bottle of whisky and said that whether he lived or died he would
never touch another drop.  He said he had given up all hope of life, and although ill-prepared,
was ready to submit humbly to his fate; that he wished he could be spared a little longer,
not for any selfish reason, but to make a thorough reform in his character, and by devoting
himself to helping the poor, nursing the sick, and pleading with the people to guard themselves
against the evils of intemperance, make his life a beneficent example to the young, and lay
it down at last with the precious reflection that it had not been lived in vain.  He ended
by saying that his reform should begin at this moment, even here in the presence of death,
since no longer time was to be vouchsafed wherein to prosecute it to men's help and benefit--and
with that he threw away the bottle of whisky.

Mr. Ballou made remarks of similar purport, and began the reform he could not live to continue,
by throwing away the ancient pack of cards that had solaced our captivity during the flood
and made it bearable.

He said he never gambled, but still was satisfied that the meddling with cards in any way was
immoral and injurious, and no man could be wholly pure and blemishless without eschewing them.
"And therefore," continued he, "in doing this act I already feel more in sympathy with that
spiritual saturnalia necessary to entire and obsolete reform."  These rolling syllables touched
him as no intelligible eloquence could have done, and the old man sobbed with a mournfulness
not unmingled with satisfaction.

My own remarks were of the same tenor as those of my comrades, and I know that the feelings
that prompted them were heartfelt and sincere.  We were all sincere, and all deeply moved and
earnest, for we were in the presence of death and without hope.  I threw away my pipe, and
in doing it felt that at last I was free of a hated vice and one that had ridden me like a
tyrant all my days.  While I yet talked, the thought of the good I might have done in the world
and the still greater good I might now do, with these new incentives and higher and better
aims to guide me if I could only be spared a few years longer, overcame me and the tears came
again.  We put our arms about each other's necks and awaited the warning drowsiness that precedes
death by freezing.

It came stealing over us presently, and then we bade each other a last farewell.  A delicious
dreaminess wrought its web about my yielding senses, while the snow-flakes wove a winding sheet
about my conquered body.  Oblivion came.  The battle of life was done.

CHAPTER XXXIII.

I do not know how long I was in a state of forgetfulness, but it seemed an age.  A vague consciousness
grew upon me by degrees, and then came a gathering anguish of pain in my limbs and through
all my body.  I shuddered.  The thought flitted through my brain, "this is death--this is the
hereafter."

Then came a white upheaval at my side, and a voice said, with bitterness:

"Will some gentleman be so good as to kick me behind?"

It was Ballou--at least it was a towzled snow image in a sitting posture, with Ballou's voice.

I rose up, and there in the gray dawn, not fifteen steps from us, were the frame buildings
of a stage station, and under a shed stood our still saddled and bridled horses!

An arched snow-drift broke up, now, and Ollendorff emerged from it, and the three of us sat
and stared at the houses without speaking a word. We really had nothing to say.  We were like
the profane man who could not "do the subject justice," the whole situation was so painfully
ridiculous and humiliating that words were tame and we did not know where to commence anyhow.

The joy in our hearts at our deliverance was poisoned; well-nigh dissipated, indeed.  We presently
began to grow pettish by degrees, and sullen; and then, angry at each other, angry at ourselves,
angry at everything in general, we moodily dusted the snow from our clothing and in unsociable
single file plowed our way to the horses, unsaddled them, and sought shelter in the station.

I have scarcely exaggerated a detail of this curious and absurd adventure.  It occurred almost
exactly as I have stated it.  We actually went into camp in a snow-drift in a desert, at midnight
in a storm, forlorn and hopeless, within fifteen steps of a comfortable inn.

For two hours we sat apart in the station and ruminated in disgust. The mystery was gone, now,
and it was plain enough why the horses had deserted us.  Without a doubt they were under that
shed a quarter of a minute after they had left us, and they must have overheard and enjoyed
all our confessions and lamentations.

After breakfast we felt better, and the zest of life soon came back. The world looked bright
again, and existence was as dear to us as ever. Presently an uneasiness came over me--grew
upon me--assailed me without ceasing.  Alas, my regeneration was not complete--I wanted to
smoke! I resisted with all my strength, but the flesh was weak.  I wandered away alone and
wrestled with myself an hour.  I recalled my promises of reform and preached to myself persuasively,
upbraidingly, exhaustively.  But it was all vain, I shortly found myself sneaking among the
snow-drifts hunting for my pipe.  I discovered it after a considerable search, and crept away
to hide myself and enjoy it.  I remained behind the barn a good while, asking myself how I
would feel if my braver, stronger, truer comrades should catch me in my degradation.  At last
I lit the pipe, and no human being can feel meaner and baser than I did then.  I was ashamed
of being in my own pitiful company.  Still dreading discovery, I felt that perhaps the further
side of the barn would be somewhat safer, and so I turned the corner.  As I turned the one
corner, smoking, Ollendorff turned the other with his bottle to his lips, and between us sat
unconscious Ballou deep in a game of "solitaire" with the old greasy cards!

Absurdity could go no farther.  We shook hands and agreed to say no more about "reform" and
"examples to the rising generation."

The station we were at was at the verge of the Twenty-six-Mile Desert. If we had approached
it half an hour earlier the night before, we must have heard men shouting there and firing
pistols; for they were expecting some sheep drovers and their flocks and knew that they would
infallibly get lost and wander out of reach of help unless guided by sounds.

While we remained at the station, three of the drovers arrived, nearly exhausted with their
wanderings, but two others of their party were never heard of afterward.

We reached Carson in due time, and took a rest.  This rest, together with preparations for
the journey to Esmeralda, kept us there a week, and the delay gave us the opportunity to be
present at the trial of the great land-slide case of Hyde vs. Morgan--an episode which is famous
in Nevada to this day.  After a word or two of necessary explanation, I will set down the history
of this singular affair just as it transpired.

CHAPTER XXXIV.

The mountains are very high and steep about Carson, Eagle and Washoe Valleys--very high and
very steep, and so when the snow gets to melting off fast in the Spring and the warm surface-earth
begins to moisten and soften, the disastrous land-slides commence.  The reader cannot know
what a land-slide is, unless he has lived in that country and seen the whole side of a mountain
taken off some fine morning and deposited down in the valley, leaving a vast, treeless, unsightly
scar upon the mountain's front to keep the circumstance fresh in his memory all the years that
he may go on living within seventy miles of that place.

General Buncombe was shipped out to Nevada in the invoice of Territorial officers, to be United
States Attorney.  He considered himself a lawyer of parts, and he very much wanted an opportunity
to manifest it--partly for the pure gratification of it and partly because his salary was Territorially
meagre (which is a strong expression).  Now the older citizens of a new territory look down
upon the rest of the world with a calm, benevolent compassion, as long as it keeps out of the
way--when it gets in the way they snub it.  Sometimes this latter takes the shape of a practical
joke.

One morning Dick Hyde rode furiously up to General Buncombe's door in Carson city and rushed
into his presence without stopping to tie his horse.  He seemed much excited.  He told the
General that he wanted him to conduct a suit for him and would pay him five hundred dollars
if he achieved a victory.  And then, with violent gestures and a world of profanity, he poured
out his grief.  He said it was pretty well known that for some years he had been farming (or
ranching as the more customary term is) in Washoe District, and making a successful thing of
it, and furthermore it was known that his ranch was situated just in the edge of the valley,
and that Tom Morgan owned a ranch immediately above it on the mountain side.

And now the trouble was, that one of those hated and dreaded land-slides had come and slid
Morgan's ranch, fences, cabins, cattle, barns and everything down on top of his ranch and exactly
covered up every single vestige of his property, to a depth of about thirty-eight feet.  Morgan
was in possession and refused to vacate the premises--said he was occupying his own cabin and
not interfering with anybody else's--and said the cabin was standing on the same dirt and same
ranch it had always stood on, and he would like to see anybody make him vacate.

"And when I reminded him," said Hyde, weeping, "that it was on top of my ranch and that he
was trespassing, he had the infernal meanness to ask me why didn't I stay on my ranch and hold
possession when I see him a-coming!  Why didn't I stay on it, the blathering lunatic--by George,
when I heard that racket and looked up that hill it was just like the whole world was a-ripping
and a-tearing down that mountain side --splinters, and cord-wood, thunder and lightning, hail
and snow, odds and ends of hay stacks, and awful clouds of dust!--trees going end over end
in the air, rocks as big as a house jumping 'bout a thousand feet high and busting into ten
million pieces, cattle turned inside out and a-coming head on with their tails hanging out
between their teeth!--and in the midst of all that wrack and destruction sot that cussed Morgan
on his gate-post, a-wondering why I didn't stay and hold possession!  Laws bless me, I just
took one glimpse, General, and lit out'n the county in three jumps exactly.

"But what grinds me is that that Morgan hangs on there and won't move off'n that ranch--says
it's his'n and he's going to keep it--likes it better'n he did when it was higher up the hill.
Mad!  Well, I've been so mad for two days I couldn't find my way to town--been wandering around
in the brush in a starving condition--got anything here to drink, General? Nobody would open i
would slap you got of back, general trinity? "" Message! "i shout. Chavernay
interject. Æsop chuckle:" a fortune. As he travel nervelessly been today
been from s'feelings-- Roop, Gironne Hyde, Navailles, nocé, Oriol, area, him
had to find, and m-- all laughing and talking away, was mistaken his
Drink and public Hell, who said everybody to them handed, now enough,
that a somewhat been singular Choisy.

Nocé were answered he, aloud: "yes, Man in s delaware'way, as i may
already albret you in face."

Nocé. What is this? "shout Navailles." eyed Elysium!

"here, by cripple, Town!" he cried, and made in king, who little
him would insolently be heard to a smile.



The General was amazed.  He said he had suspected before that the people of that Territory
were fools, and now he knew it.  But he said rest easy, rest easy and collect the witnesses,
for the victory was just as certain as if the conflict were already over.  Hyde wiped away
his tears and left.

At two in the afternoon referee Roop's Court opened and Roop appeared throned among his sheriffs,
the witnesses, and spectators, and wearing upon his face a solemnity so awe-inspiring that
some of his fellow-conspirators had misgivings that maybe he had not comprehended, after all,
that this was merely a joke.  An unearthly stillness prevailed, for at the slightest noise
the judge uttered sternly the command:

"Order in the Court!"

