The grown-up, independent, yet disciplined routine of Thirlwall Hall, founded as closely as
possible on the venerable routine of the men's colleges, was widely, crushingly different from
life in the Old Doctor's House at Redcross. Morning chapel, the steady business of individual
reading, the attendance on the selected courses of lectures, with the new experience of being
spoken to, and expected to take notes like men; the walks and talks, which even with the interruptions
of tennis and boating were apt to be academically shoppy; the very afternoon tea after evening
chapel had an impressively scholastic flavour utterly foreign to the desultory proceedings
of an ordinary family circle. So had the further reading by one's self, for one's self, to
get up a particular branch of study; the "swell dinner," as May persisted in calling it in
her own mind, though it was simple and social enough--beyond certain indispensable forms and
ceremonies--to the initiated; the withdrawal once more to the dreary retirement of her own
room, since a new girl had neither the requisite familiarity nor the heart to go and tap at
her neighbours' doors, where no substitute for "sporting the oak" had as yet been found, and
drop in for a little purely human chatter.

May was so "hard hit," as people say--not with love, but with home-sickness--that she did not
believe she could live to the end of the summer term. She felt as if she must die of strangeness,
fright, and pining; and that was hard, for they would be very sorry at home, and so would Annie
and Rose in London, though both of them had been able to go and stay away quite cheerfully
like the girls at Thirlwall Hall. Perhaps May and Dora were not like other girls. There was
something wanting or something in excess about them. Perhaps they were not fit to go through
the world, as she had once heard somebody say of her--May. Perhaps they were meant to die young--like
their Aunt Dolly--and not destined to live long and struggle helplessly with adverse circumstances.
In that case, Dora was the happy one to be left to spend her short life at home, though, save
for father and mother, she too was all alone, and poor dear Dora would feel that, and was,
perhaps, crying in another empty room as May was crying in hers at this very moment; but at
least, Dora would pass her last days with father and mother in the old familiar places.

This isolated doom for herself and Dora fascinated May's imagination. She could not get it
out of her head. She dreamt about it, and sat up in her bed crying and shivering in the silence
and solitude of night, where even by day all was silent and solitary. She began to think that
she would never see Redcross or her mother again. With the morbid sentimentality of early youth,
and its lively capacity for self-torture, in which to be sure there is that underlying luxury
of woe, she commenced to rehearse the loving farewells she would take on paper, and the harrowing
last messages she would send to every member of her family.

Occasionally May's hallucination took the form of conjuring up a series of disasters which
should suddenly descend on her absent friends. If she did not die herself, one or all of those
she loved might die while she was separated from them. Her father might fall down in a fit;
her mother might be seized with small-pox or typhoid fever; and what more likely than that
Dora should catch the infection waiting on her mother?

This distempered frame of mind was hardly calculated for the rapid reception and assimilation
of these particles, terminations, and cases of philological nicety in which May began to recognize
that she was inaccurate and deficient.

If Tray could but have come to her, and laid his shining black nose in her lap, barked in her
face, and invited her to take a turn in the grounds of Thirlwall Hall, he would have ceased
to be the doleful, shadowy phantom of a Tray she was constantly seeing now, along with other
phantoms. A game of romps with her four-footed friend would have done something to dissipate
the mental sickness which was prostrating May's powers. But Thirlwall Hall was moulded on the
men's colleges, and there were no dogs for the girl any more than for the boy graduates.

Miss Lascelles was at once conscientious and kind, with considerable natural sagacity; but
she led a busy, rather over-burdened life, and had little time to spare. Naturally she was
tempted, in spite of the logical faculty which made her a capital principal of Thirlwall Hall,
to leap at conclusions like many of her weaker-minded sisters. She had taken it for granted
that Miss Millar was simply a spoilt child, without more ability and information than had just
served her to surmount the preliminary test of admission to Thirlwall Hall, where, nevertheless,
she had no business to be. Her time would be completely wasted; she would only be wretched,
and serve to make other people uncomfortable. However, as she had stood the preliminary test,
and was at Thirlwall Hall for the rest of the term, the most humane thing to do was to set
some other girl who was not particularly engaged on her own account, who could be safely trusted
with such a charge, who had plenty of acquaintances at St. Ambrose's to render the charge lighter,
to make friends with the poor girl, take her about, cheer and entertain her, as far as possible,
till the end of her stay.

Miss Lascelles, in default of better, fixed on Miss Vanhansen, the American young lady, as
a friend for May. Miss Vanhansen had plenty of time on her hands, plenty of confidence, plenty
of money. She had taken even exclusive St. Ambrose's by storm, for Athens itself would have
found it difficult to resist her racy indifference, her shrewd mother-wit, her superb frocks,
and her sublime heaps of dollars. At the same time she was perfectly good-natured and quite
trustworthy in her own free and easy way. She had scandalized Miss Lascelles in the earlier
days of their acquaintance by her energetic determination to have "a good time of it." She
had made the lady principal's hair stand on end by calmly suggesting nice rides and rows and
luncheons at village inns, tête-à-tête with the "mooniest" young fellows who could be laid
hold of and crammed with stories about America and the doings of American girls.

But practically Miss Vanhansen had the good sense to do at Rome as the Romans did; she confined
her independence to those sallies of the tongue, which were not without a rousing charm in
a place grown partly languid, partly esoteric, by dint of a superabundance of culture and of
college statutes elaborate, involved and irreversible as the laws of the Medes and the Persians.

Keturah Vanhansen rather liked the task imposed upon her. It appealed at once to her kindliness
of nature and her love of creating a sensation; she would rouse this drooping young beauty
who showed such a sinful disregard of her complexion and eyes. Miss Vanhansen was herself as
sallow as a nabob, her small eyes, by an unkind perversity on the part of her fairy god-mother,
were of a fishy paleness, yet she managed to her great satisfaction, by dint of dress and carriage,
to be a striking-looking and all but a handsome girl, so that she had no overpowering reason
to be jealous of her better-endowed neighbours. She would astonish Miss Millar's weak nerves,
and give her "a wrinkle or two," before she had done with her.

At first May shrank back a good deal from the advances of the conquering princess from the
Far West; but here the English girl's humility and good feeling stood her in better stead than
her judgment. May was grateful to Miss Vanhansen, and went so far as to be flattered by her
attentions even when they gave the recipient no pleasure. That frame of mind could not last
at seventeen. May, the most unsophisticated and easily pleased of human beings, was won from
her sad dreams of Redcross. She was deeply obliged, she was faintly amused. At last she was
fairly launched on such a mild course of St. Ambrose gaieties as two girls in a college could
with grace pursue. This included tennis parties, rowing parties, water-lily and fritillary
hunts, "strawberries," concerts instead of lectures in the afternoons as well as in the evenings,
afternoon teas--not tête-à-tête, not confined to a party of three, but under what even Miss
Lascelles would have considered sufficient surveillance in the rooms of liberal heads of houses,
hospitable young dons, social, idle undergraduates. These had no more business on their hands
than could be summed up in cricket-matches or boat-races, and in meeting Miss Vanhansen and
listening to her queer unconventional remarks.

At all these gatherings, May Millar in the budding beauty of seventeen and the simplicity of
her youthful dress, with her modesty and naïveté, was made very welcome. Soon she began to
feel herself ashamed of the extent to which she was enjoying herself, as she was swept along
by the stream.

She was able to write home now long letters full of girlish enthusiasm over the kindness of
Miss Vanhansen, and the beauties and delights of St. Ambrose's. Dora, though greatly relieved
in her ungrudging devotion to May, to find that Tom Robinson's words were fulfilled, was still
a little puzzled to understand how May could find time for so many gay doings, and her studies
into the bargain. But Dr. and Mrs. Millar could only be happy in the happiness of their child,
and hug themselves on having thought more of her welfare than of her feelings at the moment
of parting. It was right she should see all the charming sights which were to be seen, and
enter a little into the special attractions of the great University town--that would not prevent
her from settling down and doing her proper work presently. You might trust the lady principal
and a studious young creature like May, who liked to be busy with her books far before any
other occupation, with a great deal more license than that came to.

Then a new turn was given to the dissipation in which May was dipping. The longing in which
she had indulged, ever since she had first heard of its possible fulfilment, was granted--a
Greek play was to be acted by the young women who stood for the "Grecians" of the year at Thirlwall
Hall, and May was there to see. From the moment the play was decided upon to the hour of the
first rehearsal, May spoke, thought, and dreamed of nothing save "Alcestis."

Miss Vanhansen gave her up in disgust. "The ungrateful, soft-spoken wretch!" cried the forsaken
fair one; "the hypocritical young blue-grass Penelope Blue! she has been bluer than the blue
clouds all the time she has been imposing on me as a pining, bread-and-butter, home-sick miss
among us Titanesses and daughters of the gods. Here I am ready to collapse with trotting her
about among the few girls in St. Ambrose's who are sensible enough not to know the Empire of
the East from the Empire of the West, and would not care which was which if they did know,
and the still wiser young men who spend the long summer days lying on their backs in their
own canoes, reading Mark Twain. Oh! she is a brazen-faced impostor. 'Molasses!' and 'Great
Scott!' are not enough to say to her. I should like to try her with the final polite remarks
of the last chief of the Dogs' Noses."

But contemporaneously with May's being thus dropped by her first friend, she was peremptorily
claimed and appropriated by the actresses. They had not failed to notice her interest in their
enterprise, and some of the cleverest of them had already mastered an astonishing problem.

They had been guilty of nicknaming Miss Millar "Baby," because she had been so lachrymose and
shiftless when she came to Thirlwall Hall, and had never looked up till she was handed over
to Miss Vanhansen, who had given her "airings" and "outings" all very well for a baby, and
much to Baby's taste as it seemed, but not exactly severe study. Yet in spite of it all, and
in spite of the halting inaccuracy of the training in a private ladies'-school, May Millar
knew more by sheer instinct, as it sounded, of Alcestis, and felt more with her and for her,
than the best of those who professed to be her interpreters.

It was therefore not with wisely repairing the breaches in her Latin and Greek, and laying
these foundations afresh, as Rose was doing with her art under Mr. St. Foy in London, that
May was engrossed. It was with becoming a bond-slave to those ambitious players. She lent herself
to the minutest details of their attempt, coached herself in them day and night, till she could
coach everybody in turn, and figured behind backs as universal prompter, dresser, stage-manager--the
girl who had been so lifeless and incapable of looking after herself when she first came among
them that they had styled her the baby of the establishment!

Miss Lascelles, who was deeply interested in the play, both in her highly-finished scholarship,
and for the credit of Thirlwall Hall, was electrified when she discovered the efficient coadjutor
whom the performers had found. "I am afraid there has been a mistake made, and time lost,"
she said to herself ruefully. "How could I be so shortsighted, when there is the making of
the finest scholar in the Hall in Miss Millar, who threatened to hang so heavily on my hands
that I was fain to send her to play with our generous 'Barbarian.' What discrimination, what
taste and feeling with regard to the selection and fit declamation of these passages which
we were doubtful whether to retain or reject, or what to do with them! With what pretty girlish
shyness and timidity she made the suggestions! Nothing but her passionate love of the subject,
and her jealousy for its honour, as it were, with her intense craving to have it fitly expressed,
would have induced her to come forward. I should like to hear what Professor Hennessy," naming
a great name among classical authorities, "thinks of this young girl's interpretation of several
parts of the play when he comes to hear them. I should like to introduce Miss Millar to him
if she were not so frightened, and if she had taken the place which she ought to have held
to begin with. It is too late to rectify the mistake and set her to work this term, and she
had much better not go in for the Markham scholarship which her father spoke of--that would
be worse than useless. But we'll turn over a new leaf next term. After all, she is very young;
and I suppose it is of no great consequence that she has wasted her first half. Her family
are professional people, and these are generally well off." (Miss Lascelles was the portionless
daughter of the impecunious younger son of a poor nobleman.)

When the play was performed nearly all the classical scholars of St. Ambrose's--and what was
a man doing at St. Ambrose's if he were not a classical scholar, unless, to be sure, he happened
to be a philosopher of the first water, or a profound expounder of Anglo-Saxon, or a strangely
and wonderfully informed pundit?--came with their wives and daughters, and graciously applauded
the daring deed.

As for Keturah Vanhansen, she wore her rivière of diamonds, dripping, dancing, flashing like
water that was perpetually flowing, and yet, by some enchantment, arrested in its flow in glorious
suspension. Set in the middle of the enchanted water was such a breast-knot of rare, exquisite,
uncannily grotesque orchids as no queen or princess had ever been seen to wear in St. Ambrose's.
Indeed, it might have suited the Queen of Sheba.

Miss Vanhansen announced that she wore her war-paint to do honour to the Thirlwall Hall play,
and to May Millar, whom she had forgiven, for rancour never yet dwelt in the Yankee breast.
"Alcestis" was a little long, and "real right down funny," as her Aunt Sally would have said,
though it was a tragedy, and she, Keturah Vanhansen, did not understand a word of it, notwithstanding
this was her last year at Thirlwall Hall. One good joke was the man who was in cats' skins,
and carried a kitchen poker for a club, and was half a head shorter than she was, and she was
not big; they should see her Aunt Abe if they wanted to know what a big woman was like. Another
joke was the sacks for the ladies' frocks, with holes for the head and feet, and holes for
the arms, so nice and simple, and so graceful; Worth ought to get a hint of the costume. Only
it was not very distinctive, when one regarded the corresponding sacks for the gentlemen. There
was really nothing to mark out the ladies except the large towels which they wore hanging down
their backs, while the gentlemen had Inverness capes over their sacks, fastened on the shoulders
with Highland brooches. How came the Greeks, in the time of Euripides, to know about Inverness
capes and Highland brooches? She, Keturah Vanhansen, had been so startled by what she feared
might be a frightful anachronism that all her false hair had fallen off, and she had been left
like one of her Aunt Abe's moulting fowls.

The truth was that, in the matter of hair, nature had favoured Miss Vanhansen with a peculiarly
fine and luxuriant crop, so that she had no need to apply to art for its help.

But as for May, she saw nothing and heard nothing of the discrepancies which might mar the
ancient story to far less ostentatiously matter-of-fact and mocking critics than the would-be
barbarian from beyond the herring-pond. The piteous tragedy was enacted in all its terror and
pathos to May. She forgot even to sigh for one of the original great open-air amphitheatres,
with the cloudless blue sky of Greece overhead, which had been the fit setting to those old-world
plays; while she appreciated, without being conscious of the appreciation, every scenic item--the
double stage, the attendant chorus, the classic dress, that had awakened Miss Vanhansen's ridicule,
from the sandal on the foot to the toque on the head--all which could lend verisimilitude to
the spectacle. For the benefit of happy May, Alcestis lived again in modern St. Ambrose's.
Once more she suffered and died willingly in the room of Admetus; once more the miserable husband's
half-heroic, half-savage ally, Harakles, fought Death for his pale prey, and brought back the
sacrificed wife from Hades, to restore her--a figure veiled and motionless, yet instinct with
glad life, every vein throbbing with love and thankfulness--to the arms of her husband, more
joyful, and at the same time, in the middle of his joy, more full of yearning sorrow and self-abasement
than ever was happy bridegroom.

On the day after the play, Miss Lascelles casually mentioned to May that even if she went in
for the coming examination, she, Miss Lascelles, thought May had better not try for the Markham
scholarship.

"But I must, Miss Lascelles," protested May, starting up as if she were awakening from a dream,
and opening great eyes of distress and apprehension--feelings which were only at that moment
called into life. "My father would be so vexed and disappointed if I did not."

"If you will take my advice, my dear, you will wait till next year; there will be another scholarship
falling in then. Very many of the Thirlwall Hall girls do much better the second year than
they have done the first," Miss Lascelles continued to warn her girl-graduate, with the delicate
consideration and tact which qualified the lady principal for her office. "It is bad policy
to enter hastily into a competition with failure staring you in the face. It will only serve
to dishearten you, and to mislead people with regard to what I am now certain--I can honestly
congratulate you on my conviction--are your really exceptional gifts. You will do Thirlwall
Hall credit, and we shall all be proud of you, if you will have patience. You are very young;
you can afford to wait. It is a common occurrence for clever, studious girls, and lads too,
to come up to St. Ambrose's from the country, from private schools or home-teaching, who are
not sufficiently exact in their scholarship, and do nothing beyond remedying the defect in
their first or even their second year. You don't grudge giving what is but a fraction of your
life, after all, to thorough as opposed to superficial learning, do you, dear? Remember, the
one is worthy and the other worthless--a mere pretentious waste."

"I cannot help it," said May, with a little gasp of despair. "To wait is just what I cannot
afford to do. I am almost certain that my coming up next year depends on what I can do this
term. We have grown quite poor. Father has lost a great deal of money lately. Even if he were
content to send me back here, I do not think it would be right in me to come, unless I could
do something to lessen the expense. My sister Annie is in London learning to be a nurse, and
my sister Rose is coming out as an artist."

"I thought they were doing it from choice. Why did you not apply yourself before, Miss Millar?
You knew what you could do, better than any of us here could possibly guess your talents and
attainments. From your general behaviour until the play was started, I for one, I confess,
fell into the grave error of supposing that you could do little or nothing, or that any progress
you had made was entirely forced work." Miss Lascelles spoke sharply, for she was considerably
discomfited, and full of unavailing regret for her share in the misadventure.

May could not tell her that she had been too miserable about coming away from home, and leaving
her mother and father, Dora and Tray, to apply herself to learning; neither would there have
been much use in her applying if she had been destined to fade away presently as she had imagined,
and to die, bereft, among the lexicons, commentaries, and lecture-notes of Thirlwall Hall.
She preferred to say with meek contriteness that she knew she had been very idle, but she would
do her best to atone for her idleness by working every lawful moment of every hour of the few
weeks which were left to her, if Miss Lascelles would but allow her to go in for the examination,
preparatory to trying for the scholarship.

Miss Lascelles could not prevent her, she told May a little dryly, for the students of Thirlwall
Hall, though some of them were no more than seventeen--May's age--were all regarded and treated
as grown-up young women capable of judging and acting for themselves. What Miss Lascelles was
bound to do was to see that Miss Millar did not run into the opposite extreme, and bring on
a brain fever by over-study. "And you know, my dear," finished the kind, experienced woman,
who was easily softened, who had always the greatest difficulty to keep from being sympathetic,
"that would be a great deal worse than merely being turned back in your examinations, though
Dr. Millar is not rich, and there may be obstacles--I sincerely trust they will not be insurmountable--to
your coming back in the autumn, to work with a will and at the same time with moderation."

Poor May did not work herself into a brain fever, but she did in other respects exactly as
Miss Lascelles--a woman who understood the position--had clearly foreseen. May succeeded in
fretting, and worrying, and getting herself into a state of nervous agitation. Her brain, or
that part of it which had to do with grammatical declensions, derivations, rules, and principles,
became a complete muddle, so that in place of taking in new information, it seemed to be rapidly
letting go the old which it had once held securely.

Before the eventful day of May's examination, she had lost the last shred of hope, and so had
all who had heard her or formed a correct estimate of the contents of her papers, of her crossing
the rubicon. Of her own accord she sorrowfully refrained from making any move to enter the
lists for the scholarship.

It is the fashion at St. Ambrose's not to issue the result of the examinations for a considerable
number of weeks, during which the unhappy candidates hang on the tenterhooks of expectation.
A looker-on is inclined to consider this a refinement of cruelty till he or she has taken into
consideration that the motive of the protracted suspense is to suit the convenience and lessen
the arduous labours of the toil-worn professors and tutors who serve as examiners.

But in May Millar's case her failure was such a foregone conclusion, was so remedial by reason
of her youth, and so qualified by the share she had taken in the Greek play, that a point was
stretched for her, and she was privately put out of pain at once. Latterly May had not entertained
the slightest expectation of any other sentence, yet the blow fell so heavily upon her that
it was well it was the end of the term.

To do Thirlwall Hall no more than justice, everybody was sorry for their youngest, gentlest,
prettiest, most inspired, and withal most inoffensive and obliging student. Miss Lascelles
took May into her private sitting-room and recklessly lavished the few moments the lady principal
had in which to rest and recruit from the fatigue of receiving company, and playing a becoming
part in the academical gaieties with which the summer term at St. Ambrose's closes, in order
to speak encouraging words to the poor crestfallen child. Miss Vanhansen implored May to cross
the herring-pond at her expense, and have a good time among the Barbarian's relations in Ol'
Virginny and Kentuck. The girl who had played Alcestis wanted to inaugurate a reading-party
in which May should be coached all round every day. Failing this, the same adventurous spirit
would get up a series of Greek plays in London drawing-rooms, with Miss Millar's assistance;
and so far as she herself was concerned, she would never be contented till Miss Millar played
Admetus to her Alcestis. A large deputation of blue-stockinged maidens from Thirlwall Hall
escorted May to the railway station, and more than one was relieved to find that she was going
first to join her sisters in London instead of carrying the mortification of her failure straight
to her country-town home.

It might be the deferring of an ordeal, and yet it was with a white face, as abashed and well-nigh
as scared as if she had committed a crime, that May awaited Annie in the drawing-room to which
the probationers' friends were free at St. Ebbe's. The consciousness had come too late of having
wasted the little money her father had to spare on sentimental self-indulgence and the gratification
of her own feelings instead of employing it as it was meant to be employed, in controlling
herself and doing her duty, so as to acquire fitting arms for the battle of life.

It was this horrible comprehension which made her wistful eyes grow distended and fixed in
their sense of guilt and disgrace. She might have committed a forgery, and be come to tell
Annie what she had done. May was essentially one-idea'd at this period of her life, and she
had dwelt on the fact of her failure and exaggerated its importance, like the most egotistical
of human beings, till it filled her imagination and blotted out every other consideration.

Annie, in the full career of a busy professional morning, snatched a moment between two important
engagements to see her sister.

May looked with imploring, fascinated eyes at Annie in her nurse's gown and cap. The younger
girl had some faint inkling of Annie's earlier experience in the life of an hospital; yet there
she was as fresh and fair and bright as ever--a thousand times cooler and happier-looking than
her visitor.

"Here you are, May," Annie was saying in glad greeting, as she held her sister by the two shoulders,
after she had kissed her; "and I declare you have grown since you went to St. Ambrose's. Oh,
you incorrigible girl, when you were so much the tallest of us before you went there."

May could only make one answer with parched lips, faltering tongue, and eyes dry under their
heavy cloud of grief, "Annie, I have failed in my examination!"

Annie started in surprise, while her face fell for a second. "What a pity!" she could not help
exclaiming. "Father will be----" She broke off in the middle of the sentence. "Don't fret about
it," she added, quickly taking another look into May's face; "that will do no good, and it
is not very much after all. I cannot stay another minute now, May," she went on to tell the
bewildered girl in the most matter-of-fact tone, so that May was in danger of feeling half-offended
at finding her tribulation taken so cavalierly--"just like Annie!"

"You must wait for me," Annie was saying further. "There is a poor fellow--a patient of mine--who
is to have his arm amputated this morning, and I must be with him when it is done."

"Oh dear!" cried May, completely taken aback, "that is dreadful. Will he die, Annie? Will he
die?" forgetting all her own high-strung woes, the product of an advanced stage of civilization,
in heart-felt, human sympathy with the most primitive of all trials--bodily suffering and loss.

"Not if we can help it, please God," said Annie emphatically. Then an inspiration came to her
as she gazed on the girl's white quivering face. "You have been working too hard, 'little May';
you shake your head like a tragedy queen. Then you've been worrying too much, which is a great
deal worse. I shall take you in hand, but I can't stay to talk about it. Just you think how
little my poor fellow would mind not passing an examination, in comparison with the loss of
an arm--fortunately it is the left one. He is a printer who got his arm crushed under one of
the great rollers, and he has a wife and five little children dependent on their bread-winner."

Annie was gone, leaving May suddenly transported out of herself, and plunged into the trials
of her neighbours, the awfully near, common life-and-death trials, of which she had known so
little. Her own seemed to sink into insignificance beside them. St. Ambrose's and its intellectual
lists and wordy contests, even its lofty abstruse thoughts--excellent things in their way,
without which the unlettered world would become rude, sordid and narrow--faded into the background.
She forgot everything but the poor man passing through a mortal crisis, with Annie able to
succour him in his need, and his wife and children waiting to hear whether the end were life
or death.

May held her breath, and watched, prayed, and waited in her turn, with no thought left for
the news she had brought to town, and was to carry to Redcross. What did it signify if only
the poor man lived when May herself was well and strong, and all her dear friends were in health,
and likely to be spared to her.

When Annie came in again with a cheerful face, and said, "He has stood it wonderfully; there
is every prospect of his making a speedy recovery," May's face too cleared till for the moment
it was almost radiant. She acquiesced, with responsive animation, in Annie's arrangement that
since she, Annie, had got leave of absence for the rest of the day she would put on her walking-dress,
and she and May too would go and pick up Rose at Mr. St. Foy's class-rooms; and what was to
hinder all the three from having an expedition together in the fine summer weather to Hampton
Court, or Kew, or the Crystal Palace, thus celebrating May's visit to town, and making the
most of Annie's holiday? It would be like dear old times of primrose hunting, blue-bell gathering,
maying, and nutting down at Redcross before the cares and troubles of the world had taken hold
of the girls. Annie had already sent on May's luggage to Welby Square, to which May would return
with Rose. Annie excluded herself carefully from this part of the programme, with a kind of
unapproachable haughtiness which had three strains of stubbornness and one strain of fiery
youthful anger in its composition, while it was a complete enigma to May. But all she cared
to know was that she was going with her own two sisters for an entire afternoon's delightful
excursion. In the morning she had felt that she could never have the heart to be happy again.
Even yet she would not be quite happy; she would be very much affronted when she was telling
Annie and Rose the particulars of her, May's, silliness and selfishness; how she had given
herself up to moping, and then how she had played herself--first with the St. Ambrose gaieties,
and later with the Greek play, instead of setting about her work methodically and diligently.
Annie would, perhaps, tell her a few home-truths, and Rose would crumple up her nose, shake
her head, and look superhumanly wise--Rose who in the old days had been more thoughtless than May.

Still she deserved it all a thousand times over, and it would be a relief to have disburdened
herself of the sorry tale.

Her own sisters would defend her from every other assailant. They would feel for her, seek
to reassure her, even make much of her, as they were doing by taking her away with them this
afternoon. May was very sensible that a burden was lifted off her back.

CHAPTER XVIII.

DORA IS THE NEXT MESSENGER WITH BAD TIDINGS.

There is a curious feeling abroad in the world, that no two things happen alike on two days,
or in two weeks, or months, running. If there has been a railway accident on Monday, there
will certainly not be another of the same kind at the same place on Tuesday. Apart from the
fresh precautions sure to be taken, it is not at all likely, in the chapter of accidents, that
a facsimile will occur where the original has preceded it so recently. On a similar principle,
if a man has been killed or badly injured by a fall from a horse, it goes against public opinion
that his son or his brother should also be thus injured. If the singular repetition does take
place, people will speak of it with bated breath, as of a fate or doom hanging over the family,
and therefore bound to repeat itself again and again on the old lines. All this is in spite
of the fact that there is such a word as "coincidence" in the language, and that there is hardly
one of us who cannot remember several startling coincidences in the course of his or her history.

Annie Millar had an experience of the kind at this time. It was on the 20th of June that May
arrived unannounced at St. Ebbe's to recount her lost battle. On the 21st Dora appeared, in
a like unlooked-for manner, to divulge her sorrowful news.

Annie was much more troubled by the spectacle of Dora standing alone in the middle of the hospital
drawing-room, pale and agitated, than she had been by the discovery of May in that very condition
the day before. Annie's own colour died away while she ran forward and caught Dora's hand.
"What is it, Dora? Has anything happened to father or mother?--yet if there had, you would
not have left them and come up to town by yourself. Why are you here? Tell me quickly, for
it is killing me to keep me in suspense."

