She had not been able to find Wong (we afterwards discovered that Wong had gone forward to
the galley, and surprised the crew at a conference, and had been detained prisoner by them),
so she crawled up the companion ladder herself, and lurked in the cuddy, waiting for a chance
to speak with Lynch.  The Nigger was at the wheel, she said. Fitzgibbon walked up to him and
struck him--as he had struck him many, many times before.  But this time Nigger did not submit--he
whipped out his knife and stabbed the mate.  More than that, he grasped the mate in his powerful
arms, dragged him to the taffrail, and flung him overboard.  It happened so quickly that neither
Connolly, the tradesman, nor Lynch, both of whom were on the poop, could interfere. But Lynch
took a shot at Nigger, and perhaps struck him, for Nigger went over the rail and into the sea
with his victim.

It was Nigger, despised, half-lunatic Nigger, who was not in my reckoning, nor in Swope's,
who put the match to the tinder and upset such carefully laid plans.  As I feared, the revolt
of the crew blazed up immediately.  My shipmates were eager, too eager.  As it turned out,
their precipitancy was to cost them their chance of victory, for they began to riot while the
three tradesmen were still handy to the roundhouse door, though, indeed, they had no knowledge,
as had I, of the captain's ambuscade.

I staggered into the saloon, and set Newman down upon the divan which ran around the half-round,
and which was but a step from the hatch.  He got to his feet at once, and, though the lady
and I stretched out our arms to catch him, this time he did not fall.  He swayed drunkenly,
and hobbled when he took a step, but such was his vitality and so strong the urge of his will,
that life was already returning to his misused limbs.

It was just then that pandemonium broke out on deck--a shot, a string of shots and a bedlam
of howls and yells.  Overhead was bedlam, too. The skipper's tune changed instanter.  He had
been singing out to Mister Lynch to "topsail haul," and to the tradesmen to man the boat falls--but
now he was screaming to the latter in a voice shaken with excitement--or panic--to regain their
posts, to get into the roundhouse and "turn loose on 'em--pepper 'em!  And, for God's sake,
throw out the flares!"

Oh, the Great Eliminator was shocked most unpleasantly In that moment, I think--to discover,
when his trusty mate was overboard, that his mutinous crew had firearms!

I looked to Newman for orders, for he was now in command of our forlorn hope.  But he had his
arm about the lady's shoulders, and was speaking urgently into her ear.  My thought was of
a place to hide.  I ran towards the cabin alleyway.  I had no intention of going out on that
dangerous deck, my object was to see if the inner door to the sail-locker was unlocked.  In
the sail-locker, I thought, we could hide, the three of us, until the fight died down.

But my design was frustrated.  Before I reached the sail-locker, the door to the deck, at the
end of the alleyway, burst open, and the tradesman, Morton, pitched headlong over the base-board.
He scrambled to his hands and knees and scuttled towards me.  There was a whistling thud near
my head.  I leaped back into the cabin, out of range, so quickly I tripped and sat down hard
upon the deck.  For a shot fired after the fleeting Morton had just missed my skull.

Morton crawled into the saloon, and looked at me with a stupid wonder in his face.   He was
wounded; he nursed his shoulder, and there was a spreading stain upon his white shirt.

"They have guns--in the rigging," says he.  Then he grunted, and collapsed, unconscious.

The heavy roar of shotguns, for which my ear was cocked, did not come. There were two pistols
in action overhead, and pistol shots rattled forward, and I could tell from the sounds that
a free fight was raging somewhere on the main deck.  But the heavier discharges did not come.
For an instant I thought--aye, and hoped!--that the tradesmen had been cut off from the roundhouse.

Suddenly the saloon grew bright with a reflected glare.  I was on my feet again, and I peered
into the alleyway, looking out through the door Morton had opened.  The roundhouse cut off
any view of the main deck, but I could see that the whole deck, aye, the whole ship, was alight
with a growing glare, a dazzling greenish-white light.

Then I knew what Captain Swope meant when he screamed for "flares." Distress flares, signal
flares, such as a ship in trouble might use. He had stocked the roundhouse with them.

Cunning, aye, deadly cunning.  This was something Boston and Blackie had not dreamed of.  A
flare thrown on deck when the men came aft--and slaughter made easy for the defenders of the
roundhouse!

Something of this I spoke aloud to Newman.  There was no answer, and I became conscious he
was not behind me.  I wheeled about.  Newman, with the lady's assistance, was hobbling up the
ladder to the deck above.  I swore my amazement and dismay at what seemed to me madness, but
I hurried after them, and emerged on the poop at their heels.

The night was banished by the strong light flaring forward.  That was my impression when I
leaped out on deck.  When I turned forward, I saw the whole ship, clear to the foc'sle, bathed
in that light.  Not one, but a half dozen flares were burning at once; they had been thrown
upon the deck both to port and starboard.  Everything on the decks was brightly revealed, every
ringbolt, the pins in the rails, deadeyes, sails, gear, aye, every rope in the rigging was
boldly etched against the glowing background.  With that one sweeping glance I took in the
scene.  High up in the main rigging, almost to the futtock shrouds, the figure of a man was
revealed: he was blazing away in the direction of the poop with a revolver.  On the deck, near
the mainmast, the second mate was laying about him with a capstan bar, and a dozen men seemed
boiling over each other in efforts to close with him.  Other figures lay motionless upon the deck.

So much for what I saw forward; what concerned me that instant was what was right before my
eyes.  Captain Swope was leaning against the mizzen fife rail, screened by the mast from those
forward, returning the fire of the man in the rigging--but no, even as I clapped eyes upon
him, he shot, and I saw he aimed, not at the man in the rigging, but at the group fighting
on the deck.  At his second officer, no less!  Aye, and I understood in a flash why I had not
beard the shotguns; the tradesmen had not Swope's murderous intent towards Mister Lynch.  and
they held their fire because they could not rake the gang without hitting Lynch.

The tradesman, Connolly, was crouched against the companion hatch; he was staring after Newman
and the lady, mouth agape.  He saw them directly they appeared on deck, which Swope did not.
He raised his gun uncertainly, then lowered it, then raised it again, covering Newman's broad
back--and by that time I was upon him, my clutch was upon his wrist, and my right fist impacted
violently against his head.  It was a knockout blow, at the base of the brain, and he slumped
down, unconscious.  I straightened up, with the gun in my hand.

It was at this instant that Captain Swope became aware of our presence. It was Newman, himself,
who attracted his attention--aye, and the attention of the whole ship, as well.

For Newman had marched into the light.  He stood now almost at the forward poop rail, with
his arms raised above his head; and he sent his voice forward in a stentorian hail, a cry that
was like a thunderclap.

"Stop fighting, lads!  Stop it, I say!  It is I--Newman!  Stop fighting and go for'ard!"

If ever a human face showed amazement and discomfiture, Swope's did. He had been so busy at
his game of potting his officer he did not see Newman until the latter walked into his range
of vision and sent forth his hail.  He could have shot Newman then, and I could not have prevented,
for he had his weapon leveled.  But this sudden apparition seemed to paralyze him; he just
lowered his arm, and stared.

It startled and paralyzed all hands.  The struggle on the main deck ceased abruptly.  It was
the strangest thing I ever beheld, the way Newman's thunderous command seemed to turn to graven
images the men on deck.  They were frozen into grotesque attitudes, arms drawn back to strike,
boots lifted to kick.  Mister Lynch stood with his capstan bar poised, as though he were at
bat in a baseball game.  Every face was lifted to the giant figure standing there on the poop.
I even saw in the brilliant light a white face framed in one of the portholes in the roundhouse.

Newman repeated his command.  He did not beg or entreat; he commanded, and I don't think there
was a sailor or stiff on the main deck who, after his first word, dreamed of disobeying him.
Such was the big man's character superiority, such was the dominance his personality had acquired
over our minds.  I tell you, we of the foc'sle looked upon Newman as of different clay; it
was not alone my hero-worship that magnified his stature, in all our eyes he was one of the
great, a being apart from and above us.

And not only foc'sle eyes regarded him in this light.  There were the tradesmen peering out
of the roundhouse ports, with never a thought in their minds of disobeying his injunction.
I had it from their own lips afterwards; it was not just surprise at the big fellow's sudden
appearance that stayed their hands, it was the power of his personality.  There was Mister
Lynch, arrested by Newman's voice in mid-stroke, as it were.  There was Swope, standing palsied
and impotent, with a growing terror in his face.

"Go for'ard, lads!  Go below!  Come up here, Lynch!  Not another blow, men--for'ard with you!"

The frozen figures on the deck came to life.  There was a murmur, a shuffling of feet, and
Lynch lowered his great club.  But it was an obedient noise.

From one quarter came the single note of dissent.  The man in the main rigging sang out.  It
was Boston's voice.

"Go aft, mates!" he shouted.  "We've got them--we've won--don't listen to him!"  Then he threw
his voice at Newman.  "Damn you, Big 'Un, you've spoiled the game!"  A flash followed the oath,
and a splinter flew from the deck at Newman's feet.

There was a flash from my gun as well.  I fired without taking conscious aim; I swear, an invisible
hand seemed to lift my arm, a finger not mine seemed to press the trigger--and that greedy,
murderous rascal in the rigging screamed, and loosed his hold.  He struck the sheer pole in
his descent, and bounced into the sea.

The shots seemed to awaken Captain Swope from his surprise and terror. He had suddenly moved
with catlike swiftness; when I lowered my eyes from the rigging, I saw he had left his refuge
behind the mizzenmast and was standing in the open deck.  Aye, there he stood in that light,
which had reached its maximum, revealed to all eyes--and stamped upon his face was an expression
of insane fury so terrible and deadly he seemed not a human being at all, but a mad beast crouched
to spring. His lips were drawn back from his teeth, and a froth appeared upon his black beard.
The crowd forward saw the demon unmasked in his face, even as I saw it, and from them arose
a gasping "a-ah!" of horror.

The sound caused the lady, who was standing at Newman's elbow, to turn around; or perhaps it
was the feel of Swope's burning eyes that spun her about so quickly.  He was raising his arm,
the arm that held the gun, not quickly but slowly and carefully.  With a stab of horror I saw
him aim, not at the man, but at the woman.

No outside power this time seemed to aid me.  I shot.  I should have hit the beast, he was
not ten paces distant--but only a click answered when my hammer fell.  My gun was empty.  I
threw up my arm, intending to hurl the weapon, and I think I cried out.  Swope shot--and the
lady threw up her hands and fell.

You must understand, this all happened in a brief instant of time. Aye, it was but a short
moment since we stepped out on deck.  What happened after that shot must be measured by seconds.

For the lady was still falling, and my hand was still reaching behind me to gather energy for
a throw, when Newman bore down upon his enemy. I had not seen him turn around even, and there
he was at arm's grips with the captain.  There was another flash from Swope's revolver, in
Newman's very face.  It was a miss, for Newman's hands--helpless lumps of flesh but a few moments
before--closed upon Swope's neck.  I saw Newman's face.  It was a terrible face, the face of
an enraged and smiting god.  The great scar stood out like a dark line painted upon his forehead.

He lifted Swope from his feet with that throat grip.  He whirled him like a flail, and smashed
him down upon the deck, and let him go.  And there Yankee Swope lay, sprawled, and still, his
head bent back at a fatal angle.  A broken neck, as a glance at the lolling head would inform;
and, as we discovered later, a broken back as well.  It was death that Newman's bare hands
dealt in that furious second.

Newman did not waste so much as a glance at the work of his hands.  He had turned to the lady,
with a cry in his throat, a low cry of pain and grief--which changed at once to a shout of
gladness.  For the lady was stirring, getting to her feet, or trying to.

Newman gathered her slight form into his great arms.  I heard him exclaim, "Where, Mary?  Did
it--"  And she answered, dazedly, "I am all right--not hit."  He took a step towards me, towards
the companion. The swelling murmur from the deck arrested him.

He walked to the break of the poop, with the woman in his arms.  She seemed like a child held
to his breast.  He spoke to the men below in a hushed, solemn voice.

"It is ended," he said.  "Swope is dead."

As he stood there, the flares commenced to go out.  One by one they guttered and extinguished,
and the black night swept down like a falling curtain.

Five bells chimed in the cabin.

CHAPTER XXIII

It was the end, even as Newman said.  The end of the mutiny, the end of hate and dissension
in that ship, the end, for us, of Newman, himself, and the lady.  Peace came to the Golden
Bough that night, for the first time, I suppose, in her bitter, blood-stained history.  A peace
that was bought with suffering and death, as we discovered when we reckoned the cost of the
night's work.

Swope was dead--for which there was a prayer of thanks in every man's heart.  Fitzgibbon was
gone, and the Nigger.  Boston was dead at my hand; his partner, Blackie, lay stark in the scuppers,
as did also the stiff named Green, each with a bashed in skull, the handiwork of Mister Lynch.

Such was the death list for that night's work.  It was no heavier I think--though of much different
complexion--than the list Captain Swope had planned.

As for wounded--God's truth, the Golden Bough was manned by a crew of cripples for weeks after.
Lynch had wrought terribly, there on the main deck--broken pates, broken fingers, a cracked
wrist, a broken foot, and three men wounded, though not seriously, by Swope's and Connolly's
shots.  Such were the foc'sle's lighter casualties.  Aft, the list was shorter.  Morton had
a bullet wound in the shoulder; it would lay him up for the rest of the passage, but was not
dangerous. Connolly had a lump behind his ear.  Lynch was bruised a bit, and his clothes were
slashed to ribbons, otherwise he had escaped scathless.

