His father had once said barbering was a good loose trade that enabled one to go freely about
the world, but the boy had definitely eliminated this from the list of possible crafts, owing
to unfortunate experiences with none other than Judge Penniman, for the judge cut his hair.
At spaced intervals through the year Winona would give the order and the judge would complainingly
make his preparations. The victim was taken to the woodshed and perched on a box which was
set on a chair. The judge swathed him with one of Mrs. Penniman's aprons, crowding folds of
it inside his neckband. Then with stern orders to hold his head still the rite was consummated
with a pair of shears commandeered from plain and fancy dressmaking. Loath himself to begin
the work, the judge always came to feel, as it progressed, a fussy pride in his artistry; a
pride never in the least justified by results. To Wilbur, after these ordeals, his own mirrored
head was a strange and fearsome apparition, the ears appearing to have been too carelessly
affixed and the scanty remainder of his hair left in furrows, with pallid scalp showing through.
And there were always hairs down his neck, despite the apron. Barbering was not for him--not
when you could drive a bus to all trains, or even a dray.

There were also street encounters that summer with old Sharon Whipple, who called the boy Buck
and jocularly asked him what he was doing to make a man of himself, and whom he would vote
for at the next election. One sunny morning, while Wilbur on River Street weighed the possible
attractions of the livery-stable office against the immediate certainty of some pleasant hours
with Rufus Paulding, off to the depot to get a load of express packages for people, Sharon
in his sagging buggy pulled up to the curb before him and told him to jump in if he wanted
a ride. So he had jumped in without further debate.

Sharon's plump figure was loosely clad in gray, and his whimsical eyes twinkled under a wide-brimmed
hat of soft straw. He paused to light a cigar after the boy was at his side--the buggy continuing
to sag as before--then he pushed up the ends of his eyebrows with the blunt thumb, clicked
to the long-striding roan, and they were off at a telling trot. Out over West Hill they went,
leaving a thick fog of summer dust in their wake, and on through cool woods to a ridge from
which the valley opened, revealing a broad checker-board of ripening grain fields.

"Got to make three of my farms," volunteered Sharon after a silent hour's drive.

"Yes, sir," said Wilbur, which seemed enough for them both until the first of the farms was
reached.

Sharon there descended, passing the reins to a proud Wilbur, for talk with his tenant on the
steps of the yellow frame farmhouse. Sharon bent his thick round leg to raise a foot to a rustic
seat, and upon the cushion thus provided made figures in a notebook. After a time of this,
while Wilbur excitingly held the roan horse, made nervous by a hive of bees against the whitewashed
fence, he came back to the buggy--which sagged from habit even when disburdened of its owner--and
they drove to another farm--a red brick farmhouse, this time, with yellow roses climbing its
front. Here Sharon tarried longer in consultation. Wilbur staunchly held the roan, listened
to the high-keyed drone of a reaper in a neighbouring field, and watched the old man make more
figures in his black notebook. He liked this one of the Whipples pretty well. He was less talkative
than Bill Bardin, and his speech was less picturesque than Starling Tucker's or even Trimble
Cushman's, who would often threaten to do interesting and horrible things to his big dray horses
when they didn't back properly; but Wilbur felt at ease with Sharon, even if he didn't say
much or say it in startling words.

When Sharon had done his business the farmer came to lead the roan to the barn, and Sharon,
taking a pasteboard box from the back of the buggy, beckoned Wilbur to follow him. They went
round the red farmhouse, along a grassy path carelessly bordered with flowers that grew as
they would, and at the back came to a little white spring house in which were many pans of
milk on shelves, and a big churn. The interior was cool and dim, and a stream of clear water
trickled along a passage in the cement floor. They sat on a bench, and Sharon opened his box
to produce an astonishing number of sandwiches wrapped in tissue paper, a generous oblong of
yellow cheese, and some segments of brown cake splendidly enriched with raisins.

"Pitch in!" said Sharon.

"Yes, sir," said Wilbur, and did so with an admirable restraint, such as Winona would have
applauded, nibbling politely at one of the sandwiches.

"Ain't you got your health?" demanded the observant Sharon, capably engulfing half a sandwich.

"Yes, sir," said Wilbur.

"Eat like it then."

So the boy became less conscious of his manners, and ate like it, to Sharon's apparent satisfaction.
Midway in the destruction of the sandwiches the old man drew from the churn a tin cup of what
proved to be buttermilk. His guest had not learned to like this, so for him he procured another
cup, and brought it brimming with sweet milk which he had daringly taken from one of the many
pans, quite as if he were at home in the place.

"Milk's good for you," said Sharon.

"Yes, sir," said Wilbur.

"A regular food, as much as anything you want to name."

"Yes, sir." The boy agreed wholly, without wishing to name anything in disparagement of milk.

They ate the sandwiches and cheese, and upon the guest was conferred the cake. There were three
pieces, and he managed the first swiftly, but was compelled to linger on the second, even with
the lubricating help of another cup of milk.

"Bring it along," directed the host. So it was brought along to the buggy, one piece in course
of consumption and one carried to be eaten at superb leisure as the fed roan carried them down
the hot road to still another farm.

They drove back to Newbern in the late afternoon, still largely silent, though there was a
little talk at the close on stretches of hill where the roan would consent to slacken his pace.

"What you think of him?" Sharon demanded, nodding obliquely at the roan.

"He's got good hocks and feet--good head and shoulders, too," said the boy.

"He has that," affirmed Sharon. "Know horses?"

"Well, I--"

He faltered, but suddenly warmed to talk and betrayed an intimate knowledge of every prominent
horse in Newbern. He knew Charley and Dick, the big dray horses; and Dexter, who drew the express
wagon; he knew Bob and George, who hauled the ice wagon; he knew the driving horses in the
Mansion stables by name and point, and especially the two dapple grays that drew the bus. Not
for nothing had he listened to the wise talk in the stable office, or sat at the feet of Starling
Tucker, who knew horses so well he called them hawses. It was the first time he had talked
to Sharon forgetfully. Sharon nodded his head from time to time, and the boy presently became
shy at the consciousness that he had talked a great deal.

Then Sharon spoke of rumours that the new horseless carriage would soon do away with horses.
He didn't believe the rumours, and he spoke scornfully of the new machines as contraptions.
Still he had seen some specimens in Buffalo, and they might have something in them. They might
be used in time in place of horse-drawn busses and ice wagons and drays. Wilbur was chilled
by this prediction. He had more than half meant to drive horses to one of these useful affairs,
but what if they were to be run by machinery? Linotypes to spoil typesetting by hand, and now
horseless carriages to stop driving horses! He wondered if it would be any use to learn any
trade. He would have liked to ask Sharon, but hardly dared.

"Well, it's an age of progress," said Sharon at last. "We got to expect changes."

Wilbur was at home on this topic. He became what Winona would have called informative.

"We can't stop change," he said in his father's manner. "First, there was star dust, and electricity
or something made it into the earth; and some water and chemicals made life out of this electricity
or something----"

"Hey?" said the startled Sharon, but the story of creation continued.

"And there was just little animals first, but they got to be bigger, because they had to change;
and pretty soon they become monkeys, and then they changed some more, and stood up on their
hind feet, and so they got to be human beings like us--because--because they had to change,"
he concluded, lucidly.

"My shining stars!" breathed Sharon.

"And they lost their tails and got so they would wear neckties and have post offices and depots
and religions," added the historian in a final flash of memory.

"Well, I'll be switched!" said Sharon.

"It's electricity or something," explained the lecturer. "My father said so."

"Oh!" said Sharon.

"But he says there's a catch in it somewhere."

"I should think there was," said Sharon. "By gracious goodness, I should think there was a
catch in it somewhere! But you understand the whole thing as easy as crack a nut, don't you?"

"Yes, sir," said Wilbur.

"Giddap there!" said Sharon.

Wilbur did not tell Winona of this day's encounter with an authentic Whipple. He would have
done so but for the dollar that Sharon absently bestowed upon him from a crumple of bills when
he left the buggy at the entrance to Whipple Old Place. Winona, he instantly knew, would counsel
him to save the dollar, and he did not wish to save it. As fast as his bare feet--with a stone
bruise on one heel--would carry him he sped to Solly Gumble's. Yet not with wholly selfish
intent. A section of plug tobacco, charmingly named Peach and Honey, was purchased for a quarter
as a gift to Bill Bardin of the ice wagon. Another quarter secured three pale-brown cigars,
with gay bands about their middles, to be lavished upon the hero, Starling Tucker.

CHAPTER IX

The colourful years sped. At fifteen Wilbur Cowan, suddenly alive to this quick way of time,
was looking back to the days of his heedless youth. That long aisle of years seemed unending,
but it narrowed in perspective until earlier experiences were but queerly dissolving shapes,
wavering of outline, dimly discerned, piquant or sad in the mind, but elusive when he would
try to fix them.

On a shining, full-starred night he stood before the little house in the Penniman side yard
and bade farewell to this youth. A long time he gazed into the arched splendour above. He had
never noticed that the stars were so many and so bright; and they were always there, by day
as well as by night, so his father said. Many of them, on the same veracious authority, were
peopled; some with people who were yet but monkeys like the Vielhaber's Emil; some with people
now come to be human like himself; others with ineffable beings who had progressed in measureless
periods of time beyond any human development that even Dave Cowan could surmise.

The aging boy felt suddenly friendly with all those distant worlds, glad they were there, so
almost sociably near. On more than one of them, perhaps far off in that white streak they called
the Milky Way, there must be boys like himself, learning useful things about life, to read
good books and all about machinery, and have good habits, and so forth. Surely on one of those
far worlds there was at least one boy like himself, who was being a boy for the last time and
would to-morrow be a man. For Wilbur Cowan, beneath this starry welter of creation--of worlds
to be or in being, or lifeless hulks that had been worlds and were outworn--was on this June
night uplifted to face the parting of the ways. His last day had been lived as a boy with publicly
bare feet.

No more would he feel the soft run of new grass beneath his soles, or longer need beware the
chance nail or sharp stone in the way. On the morrow, presumably to be a day inviting to bare
feet as had all the other days of his summers, remembered and forgotten, he would, when he
rose, put on stockings and stout shoes; and he would put them on world without end through
all the new mornings of his life, howsoever urgently with their clement airs they might solicit
the older mode. It was a solemn thing to reflect upon, under a glittering heaven that held,
or not, those who might feel with him the bigness of the moment. He suffered a vision of the
new shoes, stiffly formidable, side by side at the foot of his bed in the little house. It
left him feeling all his years.

And he would wear long trousers! With tolerant amusement he saw himself as of old, barefoot,
bare-legged, the knee pants buttoned to the calico blouse. It was all over. He scanned the
stars a last time, dimly feeling that the least curious of their inhabitants would be aware
of this crisis.

Perhaps on one of those blinking orbs people with a proper concern for other world events would
be saying to one another: "Yes, he's grown up now. Didn't you hear the big news? Why, to-morrow
he's going to begin driving a truck for Trimble Cushman--got a job for the whole summer."

If the announcement startled less than great news should, the speaker could surely produce
a sensation by adding: "The first automobile truck in Newbern Center."

And how had this immature being, capable out-of-doors boy though he was, come to be so exalted
above his fellows? Sam Pickering's linotype had first revealed his gift for machinery. For
Sam had installed a linotype, and Wilbur Cowan had patiently mastered its distracting intricacies.
Dave Cowan had informally reappeared one day, still attired with decreasing elegance below
the waist--his cloth-topped shoes but little more than distressing memories--and announced
that he was now an able operator of this wondrous machine; and the harried editor of the Advance,
stung to enterprise by flitting wastrels who tarried at his case only long enough to learn
the name of the next town, had sought relief in machinery, even if it did take bread from the
mouths of honest typesetters. Their lack of preference as to where they earned there bread,
their insouciant flights from town to town without notice, had made Sam brutal. He had ceased
to care whether they had bread or not. So Dave for a summer had brought him surcease from help
worries.

The cynical journeyman printer of the moment, on a day when Dave tried out the new machine,
had stood by and said she might set type but she certainly couldn't justify it, because it
took a human to do that, and how would a paper look with unevenly ending lines? The advertisements,
as I have said, such as were serious, and not of the modern quack kind, suggested pleasing and poetic
thoughts; for commerce is really as interesting as nature.

The very names of the commodities were poetic, and as suggestive as if they had been inserted
in a pleasing poem,-- Lumber, Cotton, Sugar, Hides, Guano, Logwood. Some sober, private, and
original thought would have been grateful to read there, and as much in harmony with the circumstances
as if it had been written on a mountain-top; for it is of a fashion which never changes, and
as respectable as hides and logwood, or any natural product. What an inestimable companion such
a scrap of paper would have been, containing some fruit of a mature
life.

What a relic! What a recipe! It seemed a divine invention, by which not mere shining coin, but
shining and current thoughts, could be brought up and left there.

As it was cold, I collected quite a pile of wood and lay down on a board against the side of the
building, not having any blanket to cover me, with my head to the fire, that I might look after
it, which is not the Indian rule. But as it grew colder towards midnight, I at length encased
myself completely in boards, managing even to put a board on top of me, with a large stone
on it, to keep it down, and so slept comfortably. I was reminded, it is true, of the Irish children,
who inquired what their neighbors did who had no door to put over
them in winter nights as they had; but I am convinced that there was
nothing very strange in the inquiry.

Those who have never tried it can have no idea how far a door, which keeps the single blanket down,
may go toward making one comfortable. We are constituted a good deal like chickens, which
taken from the hen, and put in a basket of cotton in the chimney-corner, will often peep till
they die, nevertheless, but if you put in a book, or anything heavy, which will press down
the cotton, and feel like the hen, they go to sleep directly. My only companions were the mice, which
came to pick up the crumbs that had been left in those scraps of paper; still, as everywhere,
pensioners on man, and not unwisely improving this elevated tract for their habitation. They nibbled
what was for them; I nibbled what was for me. Once or twice in the night, when I looked up,
I saw a white cloud drifting through the windows, and filling the
whole upper story.

       This observatory was a building of considerable size, erected by the
students of Williamstown College, whose buildings might be seen by
daylight gleaming far down in the valley.

It would be no small advantage if every college were thus located at the base of a mountain,
as good at least as one well-endowed professorship. It were as well to be educated in the shadow
of a mountain as in more classical shades. Some will remember, no doubt, not only that they
went to the college, but that they went to the mountain. Every visit to its summit would, as
it were, generalize the particular information gained below, and
subject it to more catholic tests.

I
was up early and perched upon the top of this tower to see the daybreak, for some time reading
the names that had been engraved there, before I could distinguish more distant objects. An
"untamable fly" buzzed at my elbow with the same nonchalance as on a molasses hogshead at the
end of Long Wharf. Even there I must attend to his stale humdrum. But now I come to the pith
of this long digression.-- As the light increased I discovered around me an ocean of mist, which
by chance reached up exactly to the base of the tower, and shut out
every vestige of the earth, while I was left floating on this fragment
of the wreck of a world, on my carved plank, in cloudland; a situation
which required no aid from the imagination to render it impressive.

As the light in the east steadily increased, it revealed to me more clearly the new world into
which I had risen in the night, the new terra firma perchance of my future life. There was not
a crevice left through which the trivial places we name Massachusetts or Vermont or New York
could be seen, while I still inhaled the clear atmosphere of a July morning,-- if it were July
there. All around beneath me was spread for a hundred miles on every side, as far as the eye could
reach, an undulating country of clouds, answering in the varied swell of its surface to the terrestrial
world it veiled. It was such a country as we might see in dreams, with all the delights of
paradise.

There were immense snowy pastures, apparently smooth-shaven and firm,
and shady vales between the vaporous mountains; and far in the horizon
I could see where some luxurious misty timber jutted into the prairie,
and trace the windings of a water-course, some unimagined Amazon or
Orinoko, by the misty trees on its brink.

As there was wanting the symbol, so there was not the substance of impurity, no spot nor stain.
It was a favor for which to be forever silent to be shown this vision.

The earth beneath had become such a flitting thing of lights and shadows as the clouds had been
before. It was not merely veiled to me, but it had passed away like the phantom of a shadow,<
skia's o'nar>, and this new platform was gained. As I had climbed above storm and cloud,
so by successive days'journeys I might reach the region of eternal day, beyond the tapering
shadow of the earth; ay, "Heaven itself shall slide, And roll away,
like melting stars that glide Along their oily threads."

But when its own sun began to rise on this pure world, I found myself
a dweller in the dazzling halls of Aurora, into which poets have had
but a partial glance over the eastern hills, drifting amid the saffron-colored
clouds, and playing with the rosy fingers of the Dawn, in the very
path of the Sun's chariot, and sprinkled with its dewy dust, enjoying
the benignant smile, and near at hand the far-darting glances of the
god.

The
inhabitants of earth behold commonly but the dark and shadowy under-side
of heaven's pavement; it is only when seen at a favorable angle in the
horizon, morning or evening, that some faint streaks of the rich lining of the
clouds are revealed. But my muse would fail to convey an impression
of the gorgeous tapestry by which I was surrounded, such as men see faintly
reflected afar off in the chambers of the east. Here, as on earth, I
saw the gracious god "Flatter the mountain-tops with sovereign eye,......
Gilding pale streams with heavenly alchemy."

But never here did "Heaven's sun" stain himself. But, alas, owing, as I think, to some unworthiness
in myself, my private sun did stain himself, and "Anon permit the basest clouds to ride With
ugly wrack on his celestial face,"-- for before the god had reached the zenith the heavenly
pavement rose and embraced my wavering virtue, or rather I sank down again into that "forlorn world,"
from which the celestial sun had hid his visage,-- "How may a worm
that crawls along the dust, Clamber the azure mountains, thrown so
high, And fetch from thence thy fair idea just, That in those sunny
courts doth hidden lie, Clothed with such light as blinds the angel's
eye?

How may weak mortal ever hope to file His unsmooth tongue, and his
deprostrate style?

O,
raise thou from his corse thy now entombed exile!"

In the preceding evening I had seen the summits of new and yet higher mountains, the Catskills,
by which I might hope to climb to heaven again, and had set my compass
for a fair lake in the southwest, which lay in my way, for which I
now steered, descending the mountain by my own route, on the side
opposite to that by which I had ascended, and soon found myself in
the region of cloud and drizzling rain, and the inhabitants affirmed
that it had been a cloudy and drizzling day wholly.

But now we must make haste back before the fog disperses to the blithe
Merrimack water.

Since that first "Away! away!" Many a lengthy reach we've rowed, Still
the sparrow on the spray Hastes to usher in the day With her simple
stanza'd ode.

We passed
a canal-boat before sunrise, groping its way to the seaboard, and,
though we could not see it on account of the fog, the few dull, thumping,
stertorous sounds which we heard, impressed us with a sense of weight
and irresistible motion.

One little rill of commerce already awake on this distant New Hampshire river. The fog, as it
required more skill in the steering, enhanced the interest of our
early voyage, and made the river seem indefinitely broad.

A slight mist, through which objects are faintly visible, has the effect
of expanding even ordinary streams, by a singular mirage, into arms
of the sea or inland lakes. In the present instance it was even fragrant
and invigorating, and we enjoyed it as a sort of earlier sunshine,
or dewy and embryo light. Low-anchored cloud, Newfoundland air, Fountain-head
and source of rivers, Dew-cloth, dream drapery, And napkin spread by
fays; Drifting meadow of the air, Where bloom the daisied banks and
violets, And in whose fenny labyrinth The bittern booms and heron
wades; Spirit of lakes and seas and rivers, Bear only perfumes and
the scent Of healing herbs to just men's fields!

The same pleasant and observant historian whom we quoted above says,
that, "In the mountainous parts of the country, the ascent of vapors,
and their formation into clouds, is a curious and entertaining object.

The vapors are seen rising in small columns like smoke from many chimneys. When risen to a certain
height, they spread, meet, condense, and are attracted to the mountains,
where they either distil in gentle dews, and replenish the springs,
or descend in showers, accompanied with thunder.

After short intermissions, the process is repeated many times in the course of a summer day,
affording to travellers a lively illustration of what is observed in
the Book of Job,` They are wet with the showers of the mountains.'" Fogs and
clouds which conceal the overshadowing mountains lend the breadth
of the plains to mountain vales.

Even a small-featured country acquires some grandeur in stormy weather
when clouds are seen drifting between the beholder and the neighboring
hills.

When, in travelling toward Haverhill through Hampstead in this State, on the height of land between
the Merrimack and the Piscataqua or the sea, you commence the descent eastward, the view toward
the coast is so distant and unexpected, though the sea is invisible,
that you at first suppose the unobstructed atmosphere to be a fog
in the lowlands concealing hills of corresponding elevation to that
you are upon; but it is the mist of prejudice alone, which the winds
will not disperse.

The most stupendous scenery ceases to be sublime when it becomes distinct,
or in other words limited, and the imagination is no longer encouraged
to exaggerate it.

The actual height and breadth of a mountain or a waterfall are always
ridiculously small; they are the imagined only that content us. Nature
is not made after such a fashion as we would have her. We piously
exaggerate her wonders, as the scenery around our home. Such was the
heaviness of the dews along this river that we were generally obliged
to leave our tent spread over the bows of the boat till the sun had
dried it, to avoid mildew.

We passed the mouth of Penichook Brook, a wild salmon-stream, in the fog, without seeing it. At
length the sun's rays struggled through the mist and showed us the pines on shore dripping with
dew, and springs trickling from the moist banks,-- "And now the taller sons, whom Titan warms,
Of unshorn mountains blown with easy winds, Dandle the morning's childhood in their arms, And, if
they chanced to slip the prouder pines, The under corylets did catch their shines, To gild their leaves."
We rowed for some hours between glistening banks before the sun had
dried the grass and leaves, or the day had established its character.

Its serenity at last seemed the more profound and secure for the denseness of the morning's
fog. The river became swifter, and the scenery more pleasing than
before.

The banks were steep and clayey for the most part, and trickling with water, and where a spring oozed
out a few feet above the river the boatmen had cut a trough out of a slab with their axes, and
placed it so as to receive the water and fill their jugs conveniently. Sometimes this purer and cooler
water, bursting out from under a pine or a rock, was collected into
a basin close to the edge of and level with the river, a fountain-head
of the Merrimack. So near along life's stream are the fountains of
innocence and youth making fertile its sandy margin; and the voyageur will
do well to replenish his vessels often at these uncontaminated sources.
Some youthful spring, perchance, still empties with tinkling music into
the oldest river, even when it is falling into the sea, and we imagine
that its music is distinguished by the river-gods from the general
lapse of the stream, and falls sweeter on their ears in proportion
as it is nearer to the ocean.

As the evaporations of the river feed thus these unsuspected springs which filter through its
banks, so, perchance, our aspirations fall back again in springs on
the margin of life's stream to refresh and purify it.

The yellow and tepid river may float his scow, and cheer his eye with its reflections and
its ripples, but the boatman quenches his thirst at this small rill alone. It is this purer and
cooler element that chiefly sustains his life. The race will long
survive that is thus discreet.

Our course this morning lay between the territories of Merrimack, on the west, and Litchfield,
once called Brenton's Farm, on the east, which townships were anciently the Indian Naticook. Brenton
was a fur-trader among the Indians, and these lands were granted to him in 1656. The latter
township contains about five hundred inhabitants, of whom, however,
we saw none, and but few of their dwellings.

Being
on the river, whose banks are always high and generally conceal the
few houses, the country appeared much more wild and primitive than
to the traveller on the neighboring roads. The river is by far the
most attractive highway, and those boatmen who have spent twenty
or twenty-five years on it must have had a much fairer, more wild,
and memorable experience than the dusty and jarring one of the teamster
who has driven, during the same time, on the roads which run parallel
with the stream.

As one ascends the Merrimack he rarely sees a village, but for the most part alternate wood and pasture
lands, and sometimes a field of corn or potatoes, of rye or oats or English grass, with a few straggling
apple-trees, and, at still longer intervals, a farmer's house.

The soil, excepting the best of the interval, is commonly as light and sandy as a patriot
could desire. Sometimes this forenoon the country appeared in its primitive state, and as if the
Indian still inhabited it, and, again, as if many free, new settlers occupied it, their slight
fences straggling down to the water's edge; and the barking of dogs,
and even the prattle of children, were heard, and smoke was seen to
go up from some hearthstone, and the banks were divided into patches
of pasture, mowing, tillage, and woodland.

But when the river spread out broader, with an uninhabited islet,
or a long, low sandy shore which ran on single and devious, not answering
to its opposite, but far off as if it were sea-shore or single coast,
and the land no longer nursed the river in its bosom, but they conversed
as equals, the rustling leaves with rippling waves, and few fences
were seen, but high oak woods on one side, and large herds of cattle,
and all tracks seemed a point to one centre behind some statelier
grove,-- we imagined that the river flowed through an extensive manor,
and that the few inhabitants were retainers to a lord, and a feudal
state of things prevailed. He hastened to remove the refulgent edifice, steering
it prudently to its station in the stable yard. Then he went to find the defeated Starling
Tucker. That stricken veteran sat alone amid the ruins of his toppled empire in the little
office, slumped and torpid before the cold, rusty stove. He refused to be comforted by his
devotee. He said he would never touch one of them things again, not for no man's money. The
Darwinian hypothesis allows for no petty tact in the process of evolution. Starling Tucker
was unfit to survive into the new age. Unable to adapt himself, he would see the Mansion's
stable become a noisome garage, while he performed humble and gradually dwindling service to
a few remaining horses.

Wilbur Cowan guided the Mansion's bus for two days. He longed for it as a life work, but school
was on and he was not permitted to abandon this, even for a glorious life at the wheel. There
came a youth in neat uniform to perform this service--described by Starling Tucker as a young
squirt that wouldn't know one end of a hawse from the other. Only on Saturdays--on Saturdays
openly and clandestinely on Sundays--was there present on the driver's seat a knowing amateur
who could have sat there every day but for having unreasonably to learn about compound fractions
and geography.

CHAPTER X

Now school was over for another summer and Trimble Cushman's dray could be driven at a good
wage--by a boy overnight become a man. There were still carpers who would regard him as a menace
to life and limb. Judge Penniman was among these. A large truck in sole charge of a boy--still
in his teens, as the judge put it--was not conducive to public tranquillity. But this element
was speedily silenced. The immature Wilbur drove the thing acceptably, though requiring help
on the larger boxes of merchandise, and Trimble Cushman, still driving horses on his other
truck, was proud of his employee. Moreover, the boy became in high repute for his knowledge
of the inner mysteries of these new mechanisms. New cars appeared in Newbern every day now,
and many of them, developing ailments of a character more or less alarming to their purchasers,
were brought to his distinguished notice with results almost uniformly gratifying. He was looked
up to, consulted as a specialist, sent for to minister to distant roadside failures, called
in the night, respected and rewarded.

It was a new Newbern through whose thoroughfares the new motor truck of Trimble Cushman was
so expertly propelled. Farm horses still professed the utmost dismay at sight of vehicles drawn
by invisible horses, and their owners often sought to block industrial progress by agitation
for a law against these things, but progress was triumphant. The chamber of commerce recorded
immense gains in population. New factories and mills had gone up beside the little river. New
people were on the streets or living in their new houses. New merchants came to meet the new
demand for goods.

The homy little town was putting on airs of a great city. There was already a Better Newbern
club. The view down River Street from its junction with State, Masonic Hall on the left and
the new five-story Whipple block on the right, as preserved on the picture postcards sold by
the Cut-Rate Pharmacy, impressed all purchasers with the town's vitality. The Advance appeared
twice a week, outdoing its rival, the Star, by one issue; and Sam Pickering, ever in the van
of progress, was busy with plans for making his journal a daily.

Newbern was coming on, even as boys were coming on from bare feet to shoes on week-days. Ever
and again there were traffic jams on River Street, a weaving turmoil of farmers' wagons, buggies,
delivery carts, about a noisy, fuming centre of motor vehicles. High in the centre would be
the motor truck of Trimble Cushman, loaded with cases and nursed through the muddle by a cool,
clear-eyed youth, who sat with delicate, sure hands on a potent wheel. Never did he kill or
maim either citizen or child, to the secret chagrin of Judge Penniman. Traffic jams to him
were a part of the day's work.

When he had performed for a little time this skilled labour for Trimble Cushman it was brought
to him one day that he was old indeed. For he observed, delivering a box to Rapp Brothers,
jewellery, that from the sidewalk before that establishment he was being courted by a small
boy; a shy boy with bare feet and freckles who permanently exposed two front teeth, and who
followed the truck to the next place of delivery. Here, when certain boxes had been left, he
seated himself, as if absentmindedly, upon the remote rear of the truck and was borne to another
stopping place. The truck's driver glanced back savagely at him, but not too savagely; then
pretended to ignore him.

The newcomer for an hour hung to the truck leechlike, without winning further recognition.
Then by insensible gradations, by standing on the truck bed as it moved, by edging forward
toward the high seat, by silently helping with a weighty box, it seemed he had acquired the
right to mount to the high seat of honour itself. He did this without spoken words, yet with
an ingratiating manner. It was a manner that had been used, ages back, by the lordly driver
of the present truck, when he had formed alliances with drivers of horse-drawn vehicles. He
recognized it as such and turned to regard the courtier with feigned austerity.

"Hello, kid!" he said, with permitting severity. But secretly he rejoiced. Now he was really old.

       *       *       *       *       *

Winona viewed the latest avocation of her charge with little enthusiasm. It compelled a certain
measure of her difficult respect, especially when she beheld him worm his truck through crowded
River Street with a supreme disregard for the imminent catastrophe--which somehow never ensued.
But it lacked gentility. At twenty-eight Winona was not only perfected in the grammar of morals,
more than ever alert for infractions of the merely social code, but her ideals of refinement
and elegance had become more demanding. She would have had the boy engage in a pursuit that
would require clean hands and smart apparel and bring him in contact with people of the right
sort. She stubbornly held out to him the shining possibility that he might one day rise to
the pinnacle of a clerical post in the First National Bank.

True, he had never betrayed the faintest promise of qualifying for this eminence, and his freely
voiced preferences sweepingly excluded it from the catalogue of occupations in which he might
consent to engage. But Winona was now studying doctrines that put all power in the heart's
desire. Out of the infinite your own would come to you if you held the thought, and she serenely
held the better thought for Wilbur, even in the moment of mechanical triumphs that brimmed
his own cup of desire. She willed him to prefer choicer characters than the roughs he consorted
with, to aspire to genteel occupation that would not send him back at the day's end grimed,
reeking with low odours, and far too hungry.

His exigent appetite, indeed, alarmed her beyond measure, because he cried out for meat, whereas
Winona's new books said that meat eaters could hope for little reward of the spirit. A few
simple vegetables, fruits, and nuts--these permitted the soul to expand, to attain harmony
with the infinite, until one came to choose only the best among ideals and human associates.
But she learned that she must in this case compromise, for a boy demanding meat would get it
in one place if not another. If not at the guarded Penniman table, then at the low resort next
to Pegleg McCarron's of one T-bone Tommy, where they commonly devoured the carcasses of murdered
beasts and made no secret of it.

He even rebelled at fabrications, highly extolled in the gospel of clean eating, which were
meant to placate the baser minded by their resemblances to meat--things like nut turkey and
mock veal loaf and leguminous chicken and synthetic beefsteak cooked in pure vegetable oils.
These he scorned the more bitterly for their false pretense, demanding plain meat and a lot
of it. The nations cited by Winona that had thrived and grown strong on the produce of the
fields left him unimpressed. He merely said, goaded to harshness, that he was not going to
be a Chinese laundryman for any one.

Of what avail to read the lyrics of a great Hindu vegetarian poet to this undeveloped being?
Still Winona laboured unceasingly to bring light to the dark place. Teaching a public school
for eight years had developed a substratum of granite determination in her character. She would
never quit. She was still to the outer eye the slight, brown Winona of twenty--perky, birdlike,
with the quick trimness of a winging swallow, a little sharper featured perhaps, but superior
in acuteness of desire and persistence, and with some furtive, irresponsible girlishness lurking
timorously back in her bright glance.

She still secretly relished the jesting address of Dave Cowan, when at long intervals he lingered
in Newbern from cross-country flights. It thrilled her naughtily to be addressed as La Marquise,
to be accused of goings-on at the court of Louis XVIII, about which the less said the better.
She had never brought herself to wear the tan silk stockings of invidious allure, and she still
confined herself to her mother's plainest dressmaking, yearning secretly for the fancy kind,
but never with enough daring. Lyman Teaford still came of an evening to play his flute acceptably,
while Winona accompanied him in many an amorous morceau. Lyman, in the speech of Newbern, had
for eight years been going with Winona. But as the romantically impatient and sometimes a bit
snappish Mrs. Penniman would say, he had never gone far.

       *       *       *       *       *

Winona rejoiced a year later when golf promised, at least for a summer, to snatch Wilbur Cowan
from the grimy indistinction of a mechanic's career. For thriving and aspiring Newbern had
eased one of its growing pains with a veritable golf course, and the whilom machinery enthusiast
became smitten with this strange new sport. Winona rejoiced, because it would bring him into
contact with people of the better sort, for of course only these played the game. Her charge,
it is true, engaged in the sport as a business, and not as one seeking recreation, but the
desired social contact was indubitable. To carry over the course a bag or two of clubs for
the elect of Newbern was bound to be improving.

And it was true that he now consorted daily through a profitable summer with people who had
heretofore been but names to him. But Winona had neglected to observe that he would meet them
not as a social equal but as a hireling. This was excusable in her, because she had only the
vaguest notions of golf or of the interrelations between caddie and player. One informed in
the ways of the sport could have warned her that caddies inevitably become cynical toward all
people of the sort one cares to meet. Compelled by a rigid etiquette to silent, unemotional
formality, they boil interiorly with contempt for people of the better sort, not only because
their golf is usually atrocious--such as every caddie brilliantly surpasses in his leisure
moments--but because the speech provoked by their inveterate failures is commonly all too human.

So the results of Wilbur Cowan's contact with people Winona would approve, enduring for a mercifully
brief summer and autumn, were not what Winona had fondly preconceived. He had first been attracted
to the course--a sweet course, said the golf-architect who had laid it out over the rolling
land south of town--by the personality of one John Knox McTavish, an earnest Scotchman of youngish
middle age, procured from afar to tell the beginning golfers of Newbern to keep their heads
down and follow through and not to press the ball. As John spoke, it was "Don't pr-r-r-r-ess
th' ball." He had been chosen from among other candidates because of his accent. He richly
endowed his words with r's, making more than one grow where only one had grown before. It was
this vocal burriness that drew the facile notice of Wilbur. He delighted to hear John McTavish
talk, and hung about the new clubhouse, apparently without purpose, until John not only sanctioned
but besought his presence, calling him Laddie and luring him with tales of the monstrous gains
amassed by competent caddies.

The boy lingered, though from motives other than mercenary. His cup was full when he could
hear John's masterful voice addressed to Mrs. Rapp, Junior, or another aspirant.

"R-r-remember, mum, th' ar-r-r-um close, th' head down--and don't pr-r-r-ress th' ball."

Yet he was presently allured by a charm even more imperious, the charm of the game itself.
For John at odd moments would teach him the use of those strange weapons, so that he had the
double thrill of standing under the torrential r's addressed to himself and of feeling the
sharp, clean impact of the club head upon a ball that flew a surprising distance. His obedient
young muscles soon conformed to the few master laws of the game. He kept down, followed through
and forebore, against all human instinct, to press the ball.

By the end of Newbern's golfing season he was able to do almost unerringly what so many of
Newbern's better sort did erratically and at intervals. And the talk of John Knox McTavish
about the wealth accruing to alert caddies had proved to be not all fanciful. In addition to
the stipend earned for conventional work, there were lost balls in abundance to be salvaged
and resold.

"Laddie," said John McTavish, "if I but had the lost-ball pur-r-rivilege of yon sweet courr-r-se
and could insu-r-r-e deliver-r-r-y!"

For the better sort of Newbern, despite conscientious warnings for which they paid John McTavish
huge sums, would insist upon pressing the ball in the face of constant proof that thus treated
it would slice into the rough to cuddle obscurely at the roots of tall grass.

Wilbur Cowan became a shrewd hunter and a successful merchandiser of golf balls but slightly
used. Newbern's better sort denounced the scandal of this, but bought of him clandestinely,
for even in that far day, when golf balls in price were yet within reach of the common people,
few of them liked to buy a new ball and watch it vanish forever after one brilliant drive that
would have taken it far down the fairway except for the unaccountable slice.

       *       *       *       *       *

On the whole his season was more profitable than that of the year before, when he had nursed
the truck of Trimble Cushman through the traffic jams of River Street, and he was learning
more about the world of men if less about gas engines. Especially did the new sport put him
into closer contact with old Sharon Whipple. Having first denounced the golf project as a criminal
waste of one hundred and seventy-five acres of prime arable land, Sharon had loitered about
the scene of the crime to watch the offenders make a certain kind of fools of themselves. From
the white bench back of the first tee this cynic would rejoice mirthfully at topped or sliced
drives or the wild swing that spends all its vicious intent upon the imponderable air. His
presence came to be a trial to beginning players, who took no real pleasure in the game until
they reached the second tee, beyond the ken of the scoffer.

But this was perilous sport for Sharon Whipple. Day after day, looking into the whirlpool,
he was--in a moment of madness--himself to leap over the brink. On an afternoon had come his
brother Gideon and Rapp, Senior, elated pupils of John McTavish, to play sportingly for half
a ball a hole. They ignored certain preliminary and all-too-pointed comments of the watcher.
They strode gallantly to the tee in turn and exhibited the admirable form taught them by John.
They took perfect practice swings. They addressed the ball ceremoniously, waggled the club
at it, first soothingly, then with distinct menace, looked up to frown at a spot far down the
fairway, looked back, exhaled the breath, and drove. Rapp, Senior, sliced into the rough. Gideon
Whipple hooked into the rough.

Sharon Whipple mocked them injuriously. His ironic shouts attracted the notice of arriving
players. Gideon Whipple stayed placid, smiling grimly, but Rapp, Senior, was nettled to retort.

"Mebbe you could do a whole lot better!" he called to Sharon in tones unnecessarily loud.

Sharon's reply, in a voice eminently soothing and by that calculated further to irritate the
novice, was in effect that Rapp, Senior, might safely wager his available assets that Sharon
Whipple could do better.

"Well, come on and do it then if you're so smart!" urged Rapp, Senior. "Come on, once--I dare you!"

Sharon scorned--but rather weakly--the invitation. Secretly, through his hostile study of the
game, he had convinced himself that he by divine right could do perfectly what these people
did so clumsily. Again and again his hands had itched for the club as he watched futile drives.
He knew he could hit the ball. He couldn't help hitting it, stuck up the way it was on a pinch
of sand--stuck up like a sore thumb. How did they miss it time after time? He had meant to
test his conviction in solitude, but why not put it to trial now, and shame this doubting and
inept Rapp, Senior?

"Oh, well, I don't mind," he said, and waddled negligently to the tee.

Rapp, Senior, voiced loud delight. Gideon Whipple merely stood safely back without comment,
though there was a malicious waiting gleam in his eyes.

"You folks make something out of nothing," scolded Sharon, fussily.

Grasping the proffered club he severely threatened with it the new ball which Rapp, Senior,
had obligingly teed up for him. In that moment he felt a quick strange fear, little twinges
of doubt, a suspicion that all was not well. Perhaps the sudden hush of those about him conduced
to this. Even newly arrived players in the background waited in silence. Then he recovered
his confidence. There was the ball and there was the club--it was easy, wasn't it? Make a mountain
out of a mole hill, would they? He'd show them!

Amid the hanging silence--like a portent it overhung him--he raised the strange weapon and
brought it gruntingly down with all the strength of his stout muscles.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the fading light of seven o'clock on that fair summer's evening John McTavish for the hundredth
time seized the heavy arms of Sharon Whipple and bent them back and up in the right line. Then
Sharon did the thing faithfully in his own way, which was still, after an hour's trial, not
the way of John McTavish.

"Mon, what have I told ye?" expostulated John. He had quit calling Sharon Sir-r-r. Perhaps
his r's were tired, and anyway, Sharon called him Sandy, being unable to believe that any Scotchman
would not have this for one or another of his names. "Again I tell ye, th' body must bend between
th' hips an' th' neck, but ye keep jer-r-rkin' the head to look up."

"But, Sandy, I've sprained my back trying to bend from the hips," protested the plaintive Sharon.

"Yer-r-r old car-r-r-cass is musclebound, to be sur-r-e," conceded John. "You can't hope to
bend it the way yon laddie does." He pointed to Wilbur Cowan, who had been retrieving balls--from
no great distance--hit out by the neophyte.

"Can he do it?" questioned Sharon.

"Show 'um!" ordered John.

And Wilbur Cowan, coming up for the driver, lithely bent to send three balls successively where
good golf players should always send them. Sharon blinked at this performance, admiring, envious,
and again hopeful. If a child could do this thing----

"Well, I ain't giving up," he declared. "I'll show some people before I'm through."

He paused, hearing again in his shamed ears the ironic laughter of Rapp, Senior, at the three
wild swings he had made before--in an excess of caution--he had struck the ground back of the
immune ball and raked it a pitiful five feet to one side. He heard, too, the pleased laughter
in the background, high, musical peals of tactless women and the full-throated roars of brutal
men. He felt again the hot flush on his cheeks as he had slunk from the dreadful scene with
a shamed effort to brazen it out, followed by the amused stare of Gideon Whipple. And he had
slunk back when the course was cleared, to be told the simple secret of hitting a golf ball.
He would condescend to that for the sake, on a near day, of publicly humiliating a certain
vainglorious jewellery dealer. But apparently now, while the secret was simple enough to tell--it
took John McTavish hardly a score of burry words to tell it all--it was less simple to demonstrate.
It might take him three or even four days.

"Ye've done gr-r-rand f'r-r a beginnerr-r," said John McTavish, wearily, perfunctorily.

"I'll tell you," said Sharon. "I ain't wanting this to get out on me, that I come sneaking
back here to have you teach me the silly game."

"Mon, mon!" protested the hurt McTavish.

"So why can't Buck here come up and teach me in private? There's open space back of the stables."

"Ye cud do wor-r-rse," said John. "And yer-r-r full hour-r-'s lesson now will be two dollar-r-rs."

"Certainly, McTavish," said Sharon, concealing his amazement. He could no longer address as
Sandy one who earned two dollars as lightly as this.

There was a spacious opening back of the stable on the Whipple Old Place--space and the seclusion
which Sharon Whipple considered imperative. Even Elihu Titus was sent about his business when
he came to observe; threatened with an instant place in the ranks of the unemployed if he so
much as breathed of the secret lessons to a town now said to be composed of snickering busybodies.
The open space immediately back of the stable gave on wider spaces of pasture and wood lot.

CHAPTER XI

Archaeologists of a future age will doubtless, in their minute explorations of this region,
come upon the petrified remains of golf balls in such number as will occasion learned dispute.
Found so profusely and yet so far from any known course, they will perhaps give rise to wholly
erroneous surmises. Prefacing his paper with a reference to lost secrets once possessed by
other ancients, citing without doubt that the old Egyptians knew how to temper the soft metal
of copper, a certain scientist will profoundly deduce from this deposit of balls, far from
the vestiges of the nearest course, that people of this remote day possessed the secret of
driving a golf ball three and a half miles, and he will perhaps moralize upon the degeneracy
of his own times, when the longest drive will doubtless not exceed a scant mile.

For three days Sharon sprayed out over the landscape, into ideal golf-ball covert, where many
forever eluded even the keen eyes of Wilbur Cowan, one hundred balls originally purchased by
the selecter golfing set of Newbern. Hereupon he refused longer to regard the wooden driver
as a possible instrument of precision, and forever renounced it. Elihu Titus heard him renounce
it balefully in the harness room one late afternoon, and later entering that apartment found
the fragments of a shattered driver.

It remained for Wilbur Cowan to bring Sharon into the game by another avenue. A new campaign
was entered upon, doubtfully at first by Sharon, at length with dawning confidence. He was
never to touch a wooden club. He was to drive with an iron, not far, but truly; to stay always
in the centre of the fairway and especially to cultivate the shorter approach shots and the
use of the putter. The boy laboured patiently with his pupil, striving to persuade him that
golf was more than a trial of strength. From secret lessons back of the stable they came at
length to furtive lessons over the course at hours when it was least played. John Knox McTavish
figured at these times as consulting expert.

"It's th' shor-r-t game that tells th' stor-r-r-y," said John; and Sharon, making his whole
game a short game, was presently telling the story understandably, to the vast pride of the
middle man who provided endless balls for his lessons.

It was a day of thrills for them both when Rapp, Senior, publicly challenged and accepting
with dreams of an easy conquest, bent down before the craft of Sharon Whipple. Sharon, with
his competent iron in a short half-arm swing--he could not, he said, trust the utensil beyond
the tail of his eye--sent the ball eighteen times not far but straight, and with other iron
shots coaxed it to the green, where he sank it with quite respectable putting. Rapp, Senior,
sliced his long drives brilliantly into shaded grassy dells and scented forest glades, where
he trampled scores of pretty wild flowers as he chopped his way out again. Rapp, Senior, made
the course excitingly in one hundred and thirty-eight; Sharon Whipple, playing along safe and
sane lines, came through with one hundred and thirty-five, and was a proud man, and looked
it, and was still so much prouder than he looked that he shuddered lest it get out on him.
Later he vanquished, by the same tactics, other men who used the wooden driver with perfect
form in practice swings.

Contests in which he engaged, however, were likely to be marred by regrettable asperities rising
from Sharon's inability to grasp the nicer subtleties of golf. It seemed silly to him not to
lift his ball out of some slight depression into which it had rolled quite by accident; not
to amend an unhappy lie in a sand trap; and he never came to believe that a wild swing leaving
the ball untouched should be counted as a stroke. People who pettishly insisted upon these
extremes of the game he sneeringly called golf lawyers. When he said that he made a hole in
nine, he meant nine or thereabouts--approximately nine; nice people, he thought, should let
it go at that. So he became feared on the course, not only for his actual prowess but for his
matchless optimism in casting up his score. He was a pleased man, and considered golf a good
game; and he never forgot that Wilbur Cowan had made him the golfer he was. More than ever
was he believing that Harvey D. Whipple had chosen wrongly from available Cowans. On the day
when he first made the Newbern course in, approximately, one hundred and twenty--those short-arm
iron shots were beginning to lengthen down the centre of the fairway--he was sure of it.

       *       *       *       *       *

It must be said that Sharon was alone in this conviction. The others most concerned, had he
allowed it to be known, would have been amazed by it--Winona Penniman most of all. Winona's
conviction was that the rejected Cowan twin conspicuously lacked those qualities that would
make him desirable for adoption by any family of note, certainly not by Whipples. He had gone
from bad to worse. Driving a truck had been bad. There had been something to say in its favour
in the early stages of his career, until the neophyte had actually chosen to wear overalls
like any common driver. In overalls he could not be mistaken for a gentleman amateur moved
by a keen love for the sport of truck driving--and golf was worse. Glad at first of this change
in his life work, Winona had been shocked to learn that golf kept people from the churches.
And the clothes, even if they did not include overalls, were not genteel. Wilbur wore belted
trousers of no distinction, rubber-soled sneakers of a neutral tint, and a sweater now so low
in tone that the precise intention of its original shade was no longer to be divined. A rowdyish
cap completed the uniform. No competent bank president, surveying the ensemble, would have
for a moment considered making a bookkeeper out of the wearer. He was farther than ever before,
Winona thought, from a career of Christian gentility in which garments of a Sabbath grandeur
are worn every day and proper care may be taken of the hands.

It was late in this summer that she enforced briefly a demand for genteel raiment, and kept
the boy up until ten-thirty of a sleepy evening to manicure his nails. The occasion was nothing
less than the sixteenth birthday of Merle Whipple, to be celebrated by an afternoon festivity
on the grounds of his home. The brothers had met briefly and casually during Merle's years
as a Whipple; but this was to be an affair of ceremony, and Winona was determined that the
unworthy twin should--at least briefly--appear as one not socially impossible.

She browbeat him into buying a suit such as those that are worn by jaunty youths in advertisements,
including haberdashery of supreme elegance, the first patent-leather shoes worn by this particular
Cowan, and a hat of class. He murmured at the outlay upon useless finery. It materially depleted
his capital--stored with other treasure in a tin box labelled "Cake" across its front. But
Winona was tenacious. He murmured, too, at the ordeal of manicuring, but Winona was insistent,
and laboured to leave him with the finger tips of one who did not habitually engage in a low
calling.

He fell asleep at the final polishing, even after trying to fix his gaze upon the glittering
nails of the hand Winona had relinquished, and while she sought to impress him with the importance
of the approaching function. There would be present not only the Whipples, but their guests,
two girl friends of Patricia from afar and a school friend of Merle's; there would be games
and refreshment and social converse, and Winona hoped he would remember not to say "darn it"
any time in such of the social converse as he provided; or forget to say, on leaving, what
a charming time it was and how nice every one had been to ask him. He dozed through much of
this instruction.

Yet Winona, the next day, felt repaid for her pains. Arrayed in the new suit, with the modish
collar and cravat, the luminous shoes and the hat of merit, the boy looked entirely like those
careless youths in the pictures who so proudly proclaim the make of their garments. No one
regarding him would have dreamed that he was at heart but a golf caddie or a driver of trucks
for hire. Winona insisted upon a final polish of his nails, leaving them with a dazzling pinkish
glitter, and she sprayed and anointed him with precious unguents, taking especial pains that
his unruly brown hair should lie back close to his head, to show the wave.

When he installed her beside him in Sharon Whipple's newest car, pressed upon the youth by
its owner for this occasion, she almost wished that she had been a bit more daring in her own
dress. It was white and neat, but not fancy dressmaking in any sense of the word. She regretted
for a moment her decision against pink rosebuds for the hat, so warmly urged by her mother,
who kept saying nowadays that she would be a girl but once. Winona was beginning to doubt this.
At least you seemed to be a girl a long time. She had been a little daring, though. Her stockings
were white and of a material widely heralded as silkona. Still her skirt was of a decent length,
so that she apprehended no scandal from this recklessness.

When her genteel escort started the car and guided it by an apparently careless winding of
the wheel she felt a glow that was almost pride in his appearance and nonchalant mastery of
this abstruse mechanism. She was frightened at the speed and at the narrow margin by which
he missed other vehicles and obtruding corners. When he flourished to an impressive halt under
the Whipple porte-cochère she felt a new respect for him. If only he could do such things at
odd moments as a gentleman should, and not continuously for money, in clothes unlike those
of the expensive advertisements!

She descended from the car in a flutter of pretense that she habitually descended from cars,
and a moment later was overjoyed to note that her escort sustained the greetings of the assembled
Whipples and their guests with a practiced coolness, or what looked like it. He shook hands
warmly with his brother and Patricia Whipple; was calm under the ordeal of introductions to
the little friends Winona had warned him of--two girls of peerless beauty and a fair-haired,
sleepy-looking boy with long eyelashes and dimples.

These young people were dressed rather less formally than Winona had expected, being mostly
in flannels and ducks and tennis shoes not too lately cleaned. She was instantly glad she had
been particular as to Wilbur's outfit. He looked ever so much more distinguished than either
Merle or his friend. She watched him as he stood unconcerned under the chatter of the three
girls. They had begun at once to employ upon him the oldest arts known to woman, and he was
not flustered or "gauche"--a word Winona had lately learned. Beyond her divining was the truth
that he would much rather have been talking to Starling Tucker. She thought he was merely trying
to look bored, and was doing it very well.

The little friends of Patricia, and Patricia herself, could have told her better. They knew
he was genuinely bored, and redoubled their efforts to enslave him. Menu understood this matter
best, when he said, "Those best know the divisions of days and nights who understand that the
day of Brahma, which endures to the end of a thousand such ages, [infinite ages, nevertheless, according
to mortal reckoning,] gives rise to virtuous exertions; and that his night endures as long
as his day." Indeed, the Mussulman and Tartar dynasties are beyond all dating. Methinks I have
lived under them myself. In every man's brain is the Sanscrit. The Vedas and their Angas are not
so ancient as serene contemplation. Why will we be imposed on by antiquity? Is the babe young?
When I behold it, it seems more venerable than the oldest man; it is more ancient than Nestor
or the Sibyls, and bears the wrinkles of father Saturn himself. And do we live but in the present?
How broad a line is that? I sit now on a stump whose rings number centuries of growth. If
I look around I see that the soil is composed of the remains of just such stumps, ancestors to
this. The earth is covered with mould. I thrust this stick many aeons deep into its surface, and
with my heel make a deeper furrow than the elements have ploughed here for a thousand years.
If I listen, I hear the peep of frogs which is older than the slime
of Egypt, and the distant drumming of a partridge on a log, as if
it were the pulse-beat of the summer air.

I raise my fairest and freshest flowers in the old mould. Why, what we would fain call new is
not skin deep; the earth is not yet stained by it. It is not the fertile ground which we walk
on, but the leaves which flutter over our heads. The newest is but the oldest made visible
to our senses. When we dig up the soil from a thousand feet below the surface, we call it new,
and the plants which spring from it; and when our vision pierces deeper into space, and detects
a remoter star, we call that new also. The place where we sit is called Hudson,-- once it was
Nottingham,-- once-- We should read history as little critically
as we consider the landscape, and be more interested by the atmospheric
tints and various lights and shades which the intervening spaces create,
than by its groundwork and composition.

It is the morning now turned evening and seen in the west,-- the same sun, but a new light and atmosphere.
Its beauty is like the sunset; not a fresco painting on a wall, flat and bounded, but atmospheric
and roving or free. In reality, history fluctuates as the face of the landscape from morning
to evening. What is of moment is its hue and color. Time hides no treasures; we want not its then,
but its now. We do not complain that the mountains in the horizon are blue and indistinct; they
are the more like the heavens.

Of what moment are facts that can be lost,-- which need to be commemorated? The monument of death
will outlast the memory of the dead. The pyramids do not tell the tale which was confided to them;
the living fact commemorates itself.

Why look in the dark for light?

Strictly speaking, the historical societies have not recovered one fact from oblivion, but are themselves,
instead of the fact, that is lost. The researcher is more memorable than the researched. The crowd
stood admiring the mist and the dim outlines of the trees seen through it, when one of their number
advanced to explore the phenomenon, and with fresh admiration all eyes were turned on his dimly retreating
figure. It is astonishing with how little co-operation of the societies the past is remembered.
Its story has indeed had another muse than has been assigned it. There
is a good instance of the manner in which all history began, in Alwakidis'Arabian
Chronicle: "I was informed by Ahmed Almatin Aljorhami, who had it
from Rephaa Ebn Kais Alamiri, who had it from Saiph Ebn Fabalah Alchatquarmi,
who had it from Thabet Ebn Alkamah, who said he was present at the
action."

These fathers of history were not anxious to preserve, but to learn the fact; and hence it
was not forgotten. Critical acumen is exerted in vain to uncover the past; the past cannot be presented;
we cannot know what we are not. But one veil hangs over past, present, and future, and it is
the province of the historian to find out, not what was, but what is. Where a battle has been fought,
you will find nothing but the bones of men and beasts; where a battle is being fought, there
are hearts beating. We will sit on a mound and muse, and not try to make these skeletons stand
on their legs again. Does Nature remember, think you, that they were men, or not rather that they
are bones? Ancient history has an air of antiquity. It should be more modern. It is written as
if the spectator should be thinking of the backside of the picture on the wall, or as if the
author expected that the dead would be his readers, and wished to detail to them their own experience.
Men seem anxious to accomplish an orderly retreat through the centuries,
earnestly rebuilding the works behind, as they are battered down by
the encroachments of time; but while they loiter, they and their works
both fall a prey to the arch enemy.

History has neither the venerableness of antiquity, nor the freshness of the modern. It does as if it
would go to the beginning of things, which natural history might
with reason assume to do; but consider the Universal History, and
then tell us,-- when did burdock and plantain sprout first?

It has been so written for the most part, that the times it describes
are with remarkable propriety called dark ages.

They are dark, as one has observed, because we are so in the dark
about them.

The sun rarely shines in history, what with the dust and confusion;
and when we meet with any cheering fact which implies the presence
of this luminary, we excerpt and modernize it. As when we read in
the history of the Saxons that Edwin of Northumbria "caused stakes
to be fixed in the highways where he had seen a clear spring," and
"brazen dishes were chained to them to refresh the weary sojourner,
whose fatigues Edwin had himself experienced."

This is worth all Arthur's twelve battles. Than fifty years of Europe better one New England
ray! Biography, too, is liable to the same objection; it should be autobiography. Let us not, as
the Germans advise, endeavor to go abroad and vex our bowels that we may be somebody else to explain him. If
I am not I, who will be?

But it is fit that the Past should be dark; though the darkness is not so much a quality of the past
as of tradition. It is not a distance of time, but a distance of relation, which makes thus dusky its memorials.
What is near to the heart of this generation is fair and bright still. Greece lies outspread fair and
sunshiny in floods of light, for there is the sun and daylight in her literature and art. Homer
does not allow us to forget that the sun shone,-- nor Phidias, nor
the Parthenon. Yet no era has been wholly dark, nor will we too hastily
submit to the historian, and congratulate ourselves on a blaze of
light.

If we could pierce the obscurity of those remote years, we should find it light enough; only
there is not our day. Some creatures are made to see in the dark. There has always been the
same amount of light in the world. The new and missing stars, the comets and eclipses, do not affect
the general illumination, for only our glasses appreciate them.

The eyes of the oldest fossil remains, they tell us, indicate that the same laws of light prevailed
then as now. Always the laws of light are the same, but the modes
and degrees of seeing vary.

The gods are partial to no era, but steadily shines their light in
the heavens, while the eye of the beholder is turned to stone.

There was but the sun and the eye from the first. The ages have not
added a new ray to the one, nor altered a fibre of the other.

If we will admit time into our thoughts at all, the mythologies, those
vestiges of ancient poems, wrecks of poems, so to speak, the world's
inheritance, still reflecting some of their original splendor, like
the fragments of clouds tinted by the rays of the departed sun; reaching
into the latest summer day, and allying this hour to the morning of
creation; as the poet sings:-- "Fragments of the lofty strain Float
down the tide of years, As buoyant on the stormy main A parted wreck
appears."

These are the materials and hints for a history of the rise and progress of the race; how, from
the condition of ants, it arrived at the condition of men, and arts were gradually invented.
Let a thousand surmises shed some light on this story. We will not be confined by historical, even
geological periods which would allow us to doubt of a progress in human affairs. If we rise above
this wisdom for the day, we shall expect that this morning of the race, in which it has been
supplied with the simplest necessaries, with corn, and wine, and honey, and oil, and fire, and
articulate speech, and agricultural and other arts, reared up by
degrees from the condition of ants to men, will be succeeded by a
day of equally progressive splendor; that, in the lapse of the divine
periods, other divine agents and godlike men will assist to elevate
the race as much above its present condition.

But we do not know much about it. Thus did one voyageur waking dream,
while his companion slumbered on the bank.

Suddenly a boatman's horn was heard echoing from shore to shore, to give notice of his approach to
the farmer's wife with whom he was to take his dinner, though in that place only muskrats and kingfishers
seemed to hear. The current of our reflections and our slumbers being thus disturbed, we weighed
anchor once more.

As we proceeded on our way in the afternoon, the western bank became lower, or receded farther from
the channel in some places, leaving a few trees only to fringe the
water's edge; while the eastern rose abruptly here and there into
wooded hills fifty or sixty feet high.

       

The bass, Tilia Americana, also called the lime or linden, which was a new tree to us, overhung the
water with its broad and rounded leaf, interspersed with clusters of small hard berries now nearly
ripe, and made an agreeable shade for us sailors. The inner bark of this genus is the bast,
the material of the fisherman's matting, and the ropes and peasant's
shoes of which the Russians make so much use, and also of nets and
a coarse cloth in some places.

According to poets, this was once Philyra, one of the Oceanides. The ancients are said to have used
its bark for the roofs of cottages, for baskets, and for a kind of
paper called Philyra.

They also made bucklers of its wood, "on account of its flexibility, lightness, and resiliency."
It was once much used for carving, and is still in demand for sounding-boards of piano-fortes
and panels of carriages, and for various uses for which toughness and flexibility are required.
Baskets and cradles are made of the twigs. Its sap affords sugar, and the honey made from its
flowers is said to be preferred to any other. Its leaves are in some countries given to cattle,
a kind of chocolate has been made of its fruit, a medicine has been prepared from an infusion
of its flowers, and finally, the charcoal made of its wood is greatly
valued for gunpowder. The sight of this tree reminded us that we had reached
a strange land to us. As we sailed under this canopy of leaves we saw
the sky through its chinks, and, as it were, the meaning and idea
of the tree stamped in a thousand hieroglyphics on the heavens.

The universe is so aptly fitted to our organization that the eye
wanders and reposes at the same time.

On every side there is something to soothe and refresh this sense. Look up at the tree-tops and see
how finely Nature finishes off her work there. See how the pines spire without end higher and higher,
and make a graceful fringe to the earth. And who shall count the finer cobwebs that soar and float
away from their utmost tops, and the myriad insects that dodge between
them.

Leaves are of more various forms than the alphabets of all languages
put together; of the oaks alone there are hardly two alike, and each
expresses its own character. In all her products Nature only develops
her simplest germs. One would say that it was no great stretch of
invention to create birds.

The hawk, which now takes his flight over the top of the wood, was at first, perchance, only a
leaf which fluttered in its aisles. From rustling leaves she came in the course of ages to
the loftier flight and clear carol of the bird.

Salmon Brook comes in from the west under the railroad, a mile and a half below the village of Nashua.
We rowed up far enough into the meadows which border it to learn its piscatorial history from a
haymaker on its banks. He told us that the silver eel was formerly abundant here, and pointed
to some sunken creels at its mouth. This man's memory and imagination
were fertile in fishermen's tales of floating isles in bottomless
ponds, and of lakes mysteriously stocked with fishes, and would have
kept us till nightfall to listen, but we could not afford to loiter
in this roadstead, and so stood out to our sea again.

Though we never trod in those meadows, but only touched their margin with our hands, we still retain
a pleasant memory of them. Salmon Brook, whose name is said to be a translation from the Indian,
was a favorite haunt of the aborigines. Here, too, the first white settlers of Nashua planted, and
some dents in the earth where their houses stood and the wrecks of ancient apple-trees are still
visible. About one mile up this stream stood the house of old John Lovewell, who was an ensign
in the army of Oliver Cromwell, and the father of "famous Captain Lovewell."
He settled here before 1690, and died about 1754, at the age of one
hundred and twenty years.

He is thought to have been engaged in the famous Narragansett swamp fight, which took place in
1675, before he came here. The Indians are said to have spared him in succeeding wars on account
of his kindness to them. Even in 1700 he was so old and gray-headed that his scalp was worth nothing,
since the French Governor offered no bounty for such. I have stood in the dent of his cellar
on the bank of the brook, and talked there with one whose grandfather had, whose father might
have, talked with Lovewell. Here also he had a mill in his old age, and kept a small store.
He was remembered by some who were recently living, as a hale old
man who drove the boys out of his orchard with his cane.

Consider the triumphs of the mortal man, and what poor trophies it would have to show, to wit:-- He cobbled
shoes without glasses at a hundred, and cut a handsome swath at a hundred and five! Lovewell's house
is said to have been the first which Mrs. Dustan reached on her escape
from the Indians.

Here
probably the hero of Pequawket was born and bred. Close by may be seen the cellar and the gravestone
of Joseph Hassell, who, as is elsewhere recorded, with his wife Anna, and son Benjamin, and
Mary Marks, "were slain by our Indian enemies on September 2d, [1691,] in the evening." As Gookin
observed on a previous occasion, "The Indian rod upon the English
backs had not yet done God's errand."

Salmon Brook near its mouth is still a solitary stream, meandering through woods and meadows,
while the then uninhabited mouth of the Nashua now resounds with the din of a manufacturing town. A stream
from Otternic Pond in Hudson comes in just above Salmon Brook, on the opposite side. There was
a good view of Uncannunuc, the most conspicuous mountain in these parts, from the bank here, seen
rising over the west end of the bridge above. We soon after passed the village of Nashua, on the
river of the same name, where there is a covered bridge over the Merrimack. The Nashua, which is
one of the largest tributaries, flows from Wachusett Mountain, through Lancaster, Groton,
and other towns, where it has formed well-known elm-shaded meadows,
but near its mouth it is obstructed by falls and factories, and did
not tempt us to explore it.

Far away from here, in Lancaster, with another companion, I have crossed
the broad valley of the Nashua, over which we had so long looked
westward from the Concord hills without seeing it to the blue mountains
in the horizon.

So many streams, so many meadows and woods and quiet dwellings of men had lain concealed between us and
those Delectable Mountains;-- from yonder hill on the road to Tyngsborough you may get a good
view of them. There where it seemed uninterrupted forest to our youthful eyes, between two
neighboring pines in the horizon, lay the valley of the Nashua, and this very stream was even
then winding at its bottom, and then, as now, it was here silently mingling its waters with the Merrimack.
The clouds which floated over its meadows and were born there, seen far in the west, gilded by
the rays of the setting sun, had adorned a thousand evening skies
for us.

But as it were, by a turf wall this valley was concealed, and in our journey to those hills it
was first gradually revealed to us. Summer and winter our eyes had rested on the dim outline of
the mountains, to which distance and indistinctness lent a grandeur not their own, so that they
served to interpret all the allusions of poets and travellers. Even beyond the West Thou migratest,
Into unclouded tracts, Without a pilgrim's axe, Cleaving thy road on high With thy well-tempered
brow, And mak'st thyself a clearing in the sky. But it would be long to tell of our adventures,
and we have no time this afternoon, transporting ourselves in imagination
up this hazy Nashua valley, to go over again that pilgrimage.

       We have since made many similar excursions to the principal mountains
of New England and New York, and even far in the wilderness, and
have passed a night on the summit of many of them. You might as well send me a pitcher postcard that it's comin'. You got to hit
from where you are--you can't stop to draw back. Use your left more. G'wan now, mix it! Mix it!"

They would mix it until the boy was panting. Then while he sat on a beer keg until he should
be in breath again the unwinded Spike would skip the rope--a girl's skipping rope--or shadow-box
about the room with intricate dance steps, raining quick blows upon a ghostly boxer who was
invariably beaten; or with smaller gloves he would cause the inflated bag to play lively tunes
upon the ceiling of its support. After an hour of this, when both were sweating, they would
go to a sheltered spot beyond the shed to play cold water upon each other's soaped forms.

There had been six weeks of this before the boy's dreadful secret was revealed to Winona; six
weeks before he appeared to startle her with one eye radiating the rich hues of a ripened eggplant.
It had been simple enough. He had seen his chance to step in and punish Spike, and he had stepped--and
Spike's straight left had been there.

"You handed yourself that one, kid," Spike had said, applying raw beef to it after their rubdown.

Wilbur had removed the beef after leaving the store. He didn't want the thing to go down too
soon. It was an honourable mark, wasn't it? Nothing to make the fuss about that Winona had
made. Of course you had to go to Pegleg McCarron's to do the boxing, but Spike had warned him
never to drink if he expected to get anywhere in this particular trade; not even to smoke.
That he had entirely abandoned the use of tobacco at Spike's command should--he considered--have
commended his hero to Winona's favourable notice. He wore the eye proudly in the public gaze;
regretted its passing as it began to pale into merely rainbow tints.

But Winona took steps. She was not going to see him die, perish morally, without an effort
to save him. She decided that Sharon Whipple would be the one to consult. Sharon liked the
boy--had taken an interest in him. Perhaps words in time from him might avert the calamity,
especially after her father had refused to be concerned.

"Prize fighting!" said the judge, scornfully. "What'll he be doing next? Never settles down
to anything. Jack-of-all-trades and good at none."

It was no use hoping for help from a man who thought fighting was foolish for the boy merely
because he would not earnestly apply himself to it.

She went to Sharon Whipple, and Sharon listened even more sympathetically than she had hoped
he would. He seemed genuinely shocked that such things had been secretly going on in the life
of his young friend. He clicked deprecatingly with his tongue as Winona became detailed in
her narrative.

"My great glory!" he exclaimed at last. "You mean to say they mix it down there every afternoon?"

"Every single day," confirmed Winona. "He's been going to that low dive for weeks and weeks.
Think of the debasing associations!"

"Just think of it!" said Sharon, impatiently. "Every afternoon--and me not hearing a word of it!"

"If you could only say a word to him," besought Winona. "Coming from you it might have an influence
for good."

"I will, I will!" promised Sharon, fervently, and there was a gleam of honest determination
in his quick old eyes.

That very afternoon, in Pegleg McCarron's shed, he said words to Wilbur that might have an
influence for good.

"Quit sticking your jaw out that way or he'll knock it off!" had been his first advice. And
again: "Cover up that stomach--you want to get killed?" He was sitting at one end of the arena,
on a plank supported by the ends of two beer kegs, and he held open a large, thick, respectable
gold watch. "Time!" he called.

Beside him sat the red-eyed and disreputable Pegleg McCarron, who whacked the floor with the
end of his crutch from time to time in testimony of his low pleasure.

The round closed with one of Wilbur Cowan's right crosses--started from not too far back--landing
upon the jaw of Spike Brennon with what seemed to be a shattering impact. Sharon Whipple yelled
and Pegleg McCarron pounded the floor in applause. Spike merely shook his head once.

"The kid's showing speed," he admitted, cordially. "If he just had something back of them punches!"

"It was a daisy!" exclaimed Sharon. "My suffering stars, what a daisy!"

"'Twas neatly placed!" said Pegleg.

"I'm surprised at you!" said Sharon later to the panting apprentice. "I'm surprised and grieved!
You boys mixing it here every day for weeks and never letting on!"

"I never thought you'd like it," said Wilbur.

"Like it!" said Sharon. He said it unctuously. "And say, don't you let on to Miss Penniman
that I set here and held the watch for you. I ain't wanting that to get out on me."

"No, sir," said Wilbur.

Later Sharon tried to avoid Winona one day on River Street, but when he saw that she would
not be avoided he met her like a man.

"I've reasoned with the boy from time to time," he confessed, gloomily, "but he's self-headed,
talking huge high about being a good lightweight and all that. I don't know--mebbe I haven't
taken just the right tack with him yet."

Winona thought him curiously evasive in manner. She believed that he feared the worst for the
boy, but was concealing it from her.

"His eye is almost well where that cowardly bully struck him," she told Sharon. "If only we
could get him into something where he could hold his head up."

"He does that too much now," began Sharon, impulsively, but stopped, floundering. "I mean he
ain't enough ashamed," he concluded feebly, and feigned that someone had called him imperatively
from the door of the First National Bank.

From time to time Spike's boxing manner grew tense for a period of days. He tightened up, as
Sharon put it, and left a sore and battered apprentice while he went off to some distant larger
town to fight, stepping nonchalantly aboard the six-fifty-eight with his fighting trunks and
shoes wrapped in a copy of the Newbern Advance, and shifting his gum as he said good-bye to
Wilbur, who would come down to see him off.

Sometimes Spike returned from these sorties unscathed and with money. Oftener he came back
without money and with a face--from abrasive thrusts--looking as if a careless golfer had gone
over him and neglected to replace the divots. After these times there were likely to follow
complicated episodes of dentistry at the office of Doctor Patten. These would render the invincible
smile of Spike more refulgent than ever.

The next birthday of Merle Whipple was celebrated at a time when Spike had been particularly
painstaking in view of an approaching combat. Not only did he leave his young friend with an
eye that compelled the notice, an eye lavishly displaying all the tints yet revealed by spectroscopic
analysis, and which by itself would have rendered him socially undesirable, but he bore a swollen
nose and a split and puffy lip; bore them proudly, it should be said, and was not enough cast
down, in Winona's opinion, that his shameful wounds would deter him from mingling with decent
folk. Indeed, Winona had to be outspoken before she convinced him that a birthday party was
now no place for him. He would have gone without misgiving, and would have pridefully recounted
the sickening details of that last round in which Spike Brennon had permitted himself to fancy
he faced a veritable antagonist. Still he cared little for the festivity.

He saw Patricia from a distance in River Street, but pulled the dingy cap lower and avoided
her notice. She was still bony and animated and looked quite capable of commanding his attendance
over eighteen holes of the most utterly futile golf in all the world. His only real regret
in the matter of his facial blemishes was that Spike came back with the mere loser's end of
an inconsiderable purse, and had to suffer another infliction of the most intricate bridge
work at the hands of Doctor Patten before he could properly enjoy at the board of T-bone Tommy
that diet so essential to active men of affairs.

CHAPTER XII

Once more the aging Wilbur Cowan stood alone by night thrillingly to watch the arched splendour
of stars above and muse upon the fleeting years that carried off his youth. The moment marked
another tremendous epoch, for he was done with school. Now for all the years to come he could
hear the bell sound its warning and feel no qualm; never again need sit confined in a stuffy
room, breathing chalk dust, and compel his errant mind to bookish abstractions. He had graduated
from the Newbern High School, respectably if not with distinguished honour, and the superintendent
had said, in conferring his rolled and neatly tied diploma, that he was facing the battle of
life and must acquit himself with credit to Newbern.

The superintendent had seemed to believe it was a great moment; there had been a tremor in
his voice as he addressed the class, each in turn. He was a small, nervous, intent man whose
daily worries showed plainly through the uplift of the moment, and Wilbur had wondered what
he found to be so thrilled about. His own battle with life--he must have gone out to the fight
years ago under much the same circumstances--had apparently brought him none of the glory he
was now urging his young charges to strive for. He had to stay in a schoolroom and breathe
chalk dust.

Whatever the battle of life might be, he was going to fight it out-of-doors; not like imprisoned
school-teachers and clerks and bookkeepers in First National banks. Only when alone under that
splatter of stars did he feel the moment big with more than a mere release from textbooks.
Then at last he knew that he had become a man and must put away childish things, and his mind
floated on the thought, off to those distant stars where other boys had that night, perhaps
unwittingly, become men.

He wished that people would not pester him with solemn questions about what he now meant to
make of himself. They seemed to believe that he should be concerned about this. Winona was
especially insistent. She said he stood at the parting of the ways; that all his future hung
upon his making a seemly choice; and she said it gloomily, with frank foreboding, as one more
than half expecting him to choose amiss.

Judge Penniman was another who warned him heavily that it was time to quit being a Jack-of-all-trades.
The judge spoke as from a topless tower of achievement, relating anecdotes of his own persistence
under difficulties at the beginning of a career which he allowed his hearer to infer had been
of shining merit, hampered, it is true, by the most trying ill health. Even Mrs. Penniman said
that they were expecting great things of him, now that he had become a man.

The boy dimly felt that there was something false in all this urgency. The superintendent of
schools and Winona and the judge and Mrs. Penniman seemed to be tightly wound up with expectancy
about him, yet lived their own lives not too tensely. The superintendent of schools was not
inspiring as a model; the judge, for all his talk, lived a life of fat idleness, with convenient
maladies when the Penniman lawn needed mowing. Mrs. Penniman, it is true, fought the battle
of life steadily with her plain and fancy dressmaking, but with no visible glory; and Winona
herself was becoming a drab, sedate spinster, troubled about many things. He wondered why they
should all conceive him to be meant for so much more than they had achieved. Why couldn't he
relax into a life such as they led, without all this talk of effort and planning? It seemed
to him that people pretty much allowed life to make itself for them, and lived it as it came.
He was not going to bother about it. Let it come. He would find a way to live it. People managed.
Judge Penniman was never so ailing that he couldn't reach the harness shop for his game of
checkers. The only person he knew who had really worked hard to make something of himself was
Spike Brennon.

       *       *       *       *       *

So he resorted to the golf links that summer, heedless and happy. "Without ideals so far as
one can read him," wrote Winona in her journal, underlining the indictment and closing it with
three bold exclamation points. He was welcomed effusively to the golf course by John Knox McTavish.

"Good!" said John on the morning of his appearance, which was effusive for any McTavish.

He liked the boy, not only because he drove a sweet ball, but because you could talk to him
in a way you couldn't to par-r-r-rties you was teaching to hold a club proper-r-r-r and to
quit callin' it a stick.

He caddied that summer only for golfers of the better sort, and for Sharon Whipple, choosing
his employ with nice discrimination. John had said golf was a grand game, because more than
any other game it showed how many kinds of fool a man could be betwixt his mind and his muscles.
His apprentice was already sensitive to the grosser kinds. In addition to caddying he taught
the secrets of the game when pupils came too plenteously for John. But he lacked John's tried
patience, and for the ideal teacher was too likely to utter brutal truths instead of polite
and meandering diplomacies. He had caught perhaps a bit too much of Spike Brennon's manner
of instruction, a certain strained brusquerie, out of pace with people who are willing to pay
largely for instruction which they ignore in spite of its monotonous repetition. John warned
him that he must soften his clients--butter-r-r 'em up with nice words--or they wouldn't come
back. He must say they was doing gr-r-rand. He did say it now and then, but with no ring of
conviction.

Still it was a good summer. Especially good, because all the time he knew he was waiting for
that morning in early September when the school bell would ring and he would laugh carelessly
at what had once been the imperious summons. He thought that after this high moment he might
be able to plan his life at least a little--not too minutely.

       *       *       *       *       *

Late that summer Merle and Patricia Whipple came by appointment to play the course with him.
Merle, too, had become a man--he would enter college that fall. Apparently no one was bothering
about the plan of his life. And Patricia had become, if not a woman, at least less of a girl,
though she was still bony and utterly freckled. They drove off, Patricia not far but straight,
and Merle, after impressive preliminaries that should have intimidated any golf ball, far but
not straight. After his shot he lectured instructively upon its faults. When he had done they
knew why he had sliced into the miry fen on the right. Then with an expert eye he studied his
brother's stance and swing. The ball of Wilbur went low and straight and far, but the shot
was prefaced, apparently, by no nice adjustment of the feet or by any preliminary waggles of
the club.

"No form," said Merle. "You ought to have form by this time, but you don't show any; and you
put no force into your swing. Now let me show you just one little thing about your stance."

With generous enthusiasm he showed his brother not only one little thing, but two or three
that should be a buckler to him in time of need; and his brother thanked him, and so authoritative
was the platform manner of Merle that he nearly said "Yes, sir." After which Patricia played
a brassy shot, and they all went to find Merle's ball among the oaks. After that they went
on to Wilbur's ball, which--still without a trace of form--he dropped on the green with a mashie,
in spite of Merle's warning that he would need a mid-iron to reach it.

They drove, and again Merle lectured upon the three reasons why his ball came to rest in a
sand trap that flanked the fairway. He seemed to feel this information was expected from him,
nor did he neglect a generous exposition of his brother's failure to exhibit form commensurate
with his far, straight drive. His brother was this time less effusive in his thanks, and in
no danger whatever of replying "Yes, sir!" He merely retorted, "Don't lunge--keep down!" advice
which the lecturer received with a frowning, "I know--I know!" as if he had lunged intentionally,
with a secret purpose that would some day become known, to the confusion of so-called golf
experts. Wilbur and Patricia waited while Merle went to retrieve his ball. They saw repeated
sand showers rise over the top of a bunker. From where they stood the player seemed to be inventing
a new kind of golf, to be played without a ball. A pale mist hung over the scene.

"I know just what he's saying," Patricia told Wilbur.

"Shame on you!" said he, and they both laughed, after which Patricia glanced at him oftener.

It should be said that he was now arrayed as Winona would have him, in summer sports attire
of careless but expensive appearance, including a silk shirt alleged by the maker to be snappy,
and a cap of real character. The instinct of the male for noticeable plumage had at last worked
the reform that not all of Winona's pleading had sufficed for. Wilbur Cowan at the moment might,
but for his excellent golf, have been mistaken for a genuine Whipple.

Merle's homilies continued after each shot. He subjected his own drives to a masterly analysis,
and strove to incite his brother to correct form, illustrating this for his instruction with
practice swings that were marvels of nicety, and learnedly quoting Braid and Vardon.

It was after one of these informative intervals, succeeding a brilliantly topped drive by the
lecturer, that Patricia Whipple, full in the flooding current of Merle's discourse, turned
her speckled face aside and flagrantly winked a greenish eye at Wilbur Cowan; whereupon Wilbur
Cowan winked his own left eye, that one being farthest from the speaker. The latter, having
concluded his remarks for the moment, went to find his ball, and the two walked on.

"He just ought to be taken down," suggested Patricia, malevolently.

"Think so?" demanded Wilbur.

"Know so!" declared the girl. "'Tisn't only golf. He's that way about everything--telling people
things--how to do it and everything. Only no one at our house dares come down on him. Harvey
D. and Ella and even grandfather--they all jump through hoops for him, the cowards! I give
him a jolt now and then, but I get talked to for it."

"The boy needs some golf talk--he certainly does," conceded the other.

"Too bad you're afraid to do it," Patricia said, resignedly.

She looked sadly away, then quickly back at him to see if it had taken. She thought it hadn't.
He was merely looking as if he also considered it too bad. But on the next tee he astonishingly
asserted himself as---comparatively--a golfing expert. He wasn't going to have this splendid
brother, truly his brother for all the change of name, making a fool of himself before a girl.
Full in the tide of Merle's jaunty discourse he blazed out with an authority of his own, and
in tones so arrogant that the importance of the other oozed almost pitiably from him.

"Quit that! Listen! We've played ten holes, and you haven't made one clean drive, and I've
got off every one clean. I make this course in seventy-three, and you'd never make it in one
hundred and twenty the way you're going. But every time you stand there and tell me things
about your drive and about mine as if you could really play golf."

"Well, but my dear chap--" Merle paused, trying to regain some lost spiritual value--"I'm merely
telling you some little things about form."

"Forget it!" commanded the other. "You haven't any form yourself; you don't have form until
you can play the game, and then you don't think about it. Maybe my form doesn't stick out,
but you bet it must be tucked in there somewhere or I couldn't hit the ball. You don't want
to think I haven't any just because I don't stand there and make a long speech to the ball
before swatting it."

"Well, I was only saying----" Merle began again, but in meekness such as Patricia had never
observed in him.

Hearing a sound in the background Wilbur turned. She was staging a pantomime of excessive delight,
noiselessly clapping her thin brown hands. He frowned at her--he was not going to have any
girl laughing at his brother--and returned his attention to the late exponent of Braid and Vardon.

"Here"--he teed a ball--"you do about every wrong thing you could. You don't overlook a single
one. Now I'll show you. Take your stance, address the ball!"

He had forgotten, in the heat of his real affection, all the difference in their stations.
He was talking crisply to this Whipple as if he were merely a Cowan twin. Merle, silent, dazed,
meek, did as he was directed.

"Now take your back swing slower. You've been going up too quick--go up slow--stay there! Wait--bend
that left wrist under your club--not out but under--here"--he adjusted the limp wrist. "Now
keep your weight on the left foot and come down easy. Don't try to knock the ball a mile--it
can't be done. Now up again and swing--easy!"

Merle swung and the topped ball went a dozen feet.

"There, now I suppose you're satisfied!" he said, sulkily, but his instructor was not, it seemed,
satisfied.

"Don't be silly! You lifted your head. You have to do more than one thing right to hit that
ball. You have to stay down to it. Here"--he teed another ball--"take your stance and see if
you can't keep down. I'll hold you down." In front of the player he grasped his own driver
and rested it lightly upon the other's head. "Just think that club weighs a hundred pounds,
and you couldn't lift your head if you wanted to. Now swing again, turn the left wrist under,
swing easy--there!"

They watched the ball go high and straight, even if not far.

"A Texas leaguer," said Wilbur, "but it's all right. It's the first time this afternoon you've
stayed in the fairway. Now again!"

He teed another ball, and the threesomes had become a mere golf lesson, plus a clash of personalities.
Wilbur Cowan did all the talking; he was grim, steely eyed, imperious. His splendid brother
was mute and submissive, after a few feeble essays at assertion that were brutally stifled.
Patricia danced disrespectfully in the background when neither brother observed her. She had
no wish to incur again the tightly drawn scowl of Wilbur. The venom of that had made her uncomfortable.

"See now how you hit 'em out when you do what I tell you!" said the instructor at last, when
Merle had a dozen clean drives to his credit. But the sun had fallen low and the lesson must end.

"Awfully obliged, old chap--thanks a heap!" said Merle, recovering slightly from his abjectness.
"I dare say I shall be able to smack the little pill after this."

The old chap hurled a last grenade.

"You won't if you keep thinking about form," he warned. "Best way to forget that--quit talking
so much about it. After you make a shot, keep still, or talk to yourself."

"Awfully good of you," Merle responded, graciously, for he was no longer swinging at a ball,
but merely walking back to the clubhouse, where one man was as good as another. "There may
be something in what you say."

"There is," said Wilbur.

He waved them a curt farewell as they entered the latest Whipple car.

"But, you know, the poor kid after all hasn't any form," the convalescent Merle announced to
Patricia when they were seated.

"He has nice hair and teeth," said the girl, looking far ahead as the car moved off.

"Oh, hair--teeth!" murmured Merle, loftily careless, as one possessing hair and teeth of his
own. "I'm talking about golf."

"He lines 'em out," said Patricia, cattishly.

"Too much like a professional." Merle lifted a hand from the wheel to wave deprecation. "That's
what the poor kid gets for hanging about that clubhouse all the time."

"The poor kid!" murmured Patricia. "I never noticed him much before."

"Beastly overbearing sort of chap," said Merle.

"Isn't he?" said Patricia. "I couldn't help but notice that." She shifted her eyes sidewise
at Merle. "I do wish some of the folks could have been there," she added, listlessly. 

Farwell appears to have been the only one who had studied his profession, and understood the
business of hunting Indians. He lived to fight another day, for the next year he was Lovewell's lieutenant
at Pequawket, but that time, as we have related, he left his bones
in the wilderness.

His name still reminds us of twilight days and forest scouts on Indian trails, with an uneasy scalp;-- an
indispensable hero to New England. As the more recent poet of Lovewell's fight has sung, halting
a little but bravely still:-- "Then did the crimson streams that
flowed Seem like the waters of the brook, That brightly shine, that
loudly dash, Far down the cliffs of Agiochook."

These battles sound incredible to
us. I think that posterity will doubt if such things ever were; if
our bold ancestors who settled this land were not struggling rather
with the forest shadows, and not with a copper-colored race of men.

They were vapors, fever and ague of the unsettled woods. Now, only a few arrow-heads are turned up
by the plough. In the Pelasgic, the Etruscan, or the British story, there
is nothing so shadowy and unreal.

It is a wild and antiquated looking graveyard, overgrown with bushes, on the high-road, about a
quarter of a mile from and overlooking the Merrimack, with a deserted mill-stream bounding it on one
side, where lie the earthly remains of the ancient inhabitants of
Dunstable.

We passed it three or four miles below here. You may read there the names of Lovewell, Farwell,
and many others whose families were distinguished in Indian warfare. We noticed there two large
masses of granite more than a foot thick and rudely squared, lying flat on the ground over the remains
of the first pastor and his wife. It is remarkable that the dead lie everywhere under stones,--
"Strata jacent passim suo quseque sub" lapide-- corpora, we might say, if the measure allowed. When
the stone is a slight one, it does not oppress the spirits of the traveller to meditate by it;
but these did seem a little heathenish to us; and so are all large
monuments over men's bodies, from the pyramids down.

"Here lies,"-- "Here lies";-- why do they not sometimes write, There
rises?

Is it a
monument to the body only that is intended?

Here lies an honest man,
Rear-Admiral Van.------- Faith, then ye have Two in one grave, For
in his favor, Here too lies the Engraver.

Fame itself is but an epitaph; as late, as false, as true. But they only are the true epitaphs
which Old Mortality retouches. A man might well pray that he may not taboo or curse any portion
of nature by being buried in it.

For the most part, the best man's spirit makes a fearful sprite to haunt his grave, and it is therefore
much to the credit of Little John, the famous follower of Robin Hood,
and reflecting favorably on his character, that his grave was "long
celebrous for the yielding of excellent whetstones."

I confess that I have but little love for such collections as they
have at the Catacombs, Pere la Chaise, Mount Auburn, and even this
Dunstable graveyard.

At any rate, nothing but great antiquity can make graveyards interesting
to me.

I have no friends there. It may be that I am not competent to write the
poetry of the grave.

The farmer who has skimmed his farm might perchance leave his body to Nature to be ploughed in,
and in some measure restore its fertility.

We should not retard but forward her economies. Soon the village of Nashua was out of sight, and
the woods were gained again, and we rowed slowly on before sunset,
looking for a solitary place in which to spend the night. A few evening
clouds began to be reflected in the water and the surface was dimpled
only here and there by a muskrat crossing the stream. We camped at length
near Penichook Brook, on the confines of what is now Nashville, by
a deep ravine, under the skirts of a pine wood, where the dead pine-leaves
were our carpet, and their tawny boughs stretched overhead.

But fire and smoke soon tamed the scene; the rocks consented to be our walls, and the pines our
roof. A woodside was already the fittest locality for us. The wilderness is near as well as dear to
every man.

Even the oldest villages are indebted to the border of wild wood
which surrounds them, more than to the gardens of men.

There is something indescribably inspiriting and beautiful in the
aspect of the forest skirting and occasionally jutting into the midst
of new towns, which, like the sand-heaps of fresh fox-burrows, have
sprung up in their midst.

The very uprightness of the pines and maples asserts the ancient
rectitude and vigor of nature.

Our lives need the relief of such a background, where the pine flourishes
and the jay still screams. We had found a safe harbor for our boat,
and as the sun was setting carried up our furniture, and soon arranged
our house upon the bank, and while the kettle steamed at the tent
door, we chatted of distant friends and of the sights which we were
to behold, and wondered which way the towns lay from us.

Our cocoa was soon boiled, and supper set upon our chest, and we lengthened out this meal, like
old voyageurs, with our talk.

Meanwhile we spread the map on the ground, and read in the Gazetteer when the first settlers
came here and got a township granted. Then, when supper was done and we had written the journal
of our voyage, we wrapped our buffaloes about us and lay down with
our heads pillowed on our arms listening awhile to the distant baying
of a dog, or the murmurs of the river, or to the wind, which had not
gone to rest:-- The western wind came lumbering in, Bearing a faint
Pacific din, Our evening mail, swift at the call Of its Postmaster
General; Laden with news from Californ', Whate'er transpired hath
since morn, How wags the world by brier and brake From hence to Athabasca
Lake;-- or half awake and half asleep, dreaming of a star which glimmered
through our cotton roof.

Perhaps at midnight one was awakened by a cricket shrilly singing on his shoulder, or by a hunting
spider in his eye, and was lulled asleep again by some streamlet
purling its way along at the bottom of a wooded and rocky ravine in
our neighborhood.

It was pleasant to lie with our heads so low in the grass, and hear
what a tinkling ever-busy laboratory it was.

A thousand little artisans beat on their anvils all night long.
Far in the night as we were falling asleep on the bank of the Merrimack,
we heard some tyro beating a drum incessantly, in preparation for
a country muster, as we learned, and we thought of the line,-- "When
the drum beat at dead of night."

We could have assured him that his beat would be answered, and the
forces be mustered. Fear not, thou drummer of the night, we too will
be there. And still he drummed on in the silence and the dark. This
stray sound from a far-off sphere came to our ears from time to time,
far, sweet, and significant, and we listened with such an unprejudiced
sense as if for the first time we heard at all.

No doubt he was an insignificant drummer enough, but his music afforded us a prime and leisure
hour, and we felt that we were in season wholly. These simple sounds
related us to the stars.

Ay,
there was a logic in them so convincing that the combined sense of mankind could never make me
doubt their conclusions. I stop my habitual thinking, as if the plough
had suddenly run deeper in its furrow through the crust of the world.
How can I go on, who have just stepped over such a bottomless skylight
in the bog of my life.

Heal yourselves, doctors; by God, I live. Then idle Time ran gadding
by And left me with Eternity alone; I hear beyond the range of sound,
I see beyond the verge of sight,-- I see, smell, taste, hear, feel,
that everlasting Something to which we are allied, at once our maker,
our abode, our destiny, our very Selves; the one historic truth, the
most remarkable fact which can become the distinct and uninvited subject
of our thought, the actual glory of the universe; the only fact which
a human being cannot avoid recognizing, or in some way forget or dispense
with.

It doth expand my privacies To all, and leave me single in the crowd. I have seen how the foundations
of the world are laid, and I have not the least doubt that it will stand a good while. What are
ears? what is Time? that this particular series of sounds called a strain of music, an invisible
and fairy troop which never brushed the dew from any mead, can be wafted
down through the centuries from Homer to me, and he have been conversant
with that same aerial and mysterious charm which now so tingles my
ears?

What a fine
communication from age to age, of the fairest and noblest thoughts, the
aspirations of ancient men, even such as were never communicated
by speech, is music! It is the flower of language, thought colored
and curved, fluent and flexible, its crystal fountain tinged with
the sun's rays, and its purling ripples reflecting the grass and the
clouds.

A strain of music
reminds me of a passage of the Vedas, and I associate with it the idea
of infinite remoteness, as well as of beauty and serenity, for to
the senses that is farthest from us which addresses the greatest depth
within us.

It teaches us again and again to trust the remotest and finest as the divinest instinct, and
makes a dream our only real experience. We feel a sad cheer when we hear it, perchance because
we that hear are not one with that which is heard.

Therefore a torrent of sadness deep, Through the strains of thy triumph
is heard to sweep. The sadness is ours.

The Indian poet Calidas says in the Sacontala: "Perhaps the sadness
of men on seeing beautiful forms and hearing sweet music arises from
some faint remembrance of past joys, and the traces of connections
in a former state of existence."

As polishing expresses the vein in marble, and grain in wood, so music brings out what of heroic
lurks anywhere. The hero is the sole patron of music. That harmony
which exists naturally between the hero's moods and the universe
the soldier would fain imitate with drum and trumpet.

When we are in health
all sounds fife and drum for us; we hear the notes of music in the
air, or catch its echoes dying away when we awake in the dawn.

Marching is when the pulse of the hero beats in unison with the pulse of Nature, and he steps to
the measure of the universe; then there is true courage and invincible
strength.

Plutarch says that "Plato thinks the gods never gave men music, the science of melody and harmony, for
mere delectation or to tickle the ear; but that the discordant parts of the circulations and
beauteous fabric of the soul, and that of it that roves about the body, and many times, for
want of tune and air, breaks forth into many extravagances and excesses,
might be sweetly recalled and artfully wound up to their former consent
and agreement."

Music is the sound of the universal laws promulgated.

It is the only assured tone. There are in it such strains as far surpass
any man's faith in the loftiness of his destiny.

Things are to be learned which it will be worth the while to learn. Formerly
I heard these^ Rumors from an Aeolian Harp^.

There is a vale which none hath seen, Where foot of man has never been, Such as here lives with
toil and strife, An anxious and a sinful life.

There every virtue has its birth, Ere it descends upon the earth, And
thither every deed returns, Which in the generous bosom burns.

There
love is warm, and youth is young, And poetry is yet unsung, For Virtue
still adventures there, And freely breathes her native air. And ever,
if you hearken well, You still may hear its vesper bell, And tread
of high-souled men go by, Their thoughts conversing with the sky. According
to Jamblichus, "Pythagoras did not procure for himself a thing of this kind
through instruments or the voice, but employing a certain ineffable
divinity, and which it is difficult to apprehend, he extended his
ears and fixed his intellect in the sublime symphonies of the world,
he alone hearing and understanding, as it appears, the universal harmony
and consonance of the spheres, and the stars that are moved through
them, and which produce a fuller and more intense melody than anything
effected by mortal sounds."

Travelling on foot very early one morning due east from here about
twenty miles, from Caleb Harriman's tavern in Hampstead toward Haverhill,
when I reached the railroad in Plaistow, I heard at some distance
a faint music in the air like an Aeolian harp, which I immediately
suspected to proceed from the cord of the telegraph vibrating in the
just awakening morning wind, and applying my ear to one of the posts
I was convinced that it was so.

It was the telegraph harp singing its message through the country, its message sent not by men, but
by gods.

Perchance, like the statue of Memnon, it resounds only in the morning, when the first rays of the
sun fall on it. It was like the first lyre or shell heard on the sea-shore,-- that vibrating cord
high in the air over the shores of earth. So have all things their higher and their lower uses.
I heard a fairer news than the journals ever print. It told of things worthy to hear, and worthy
of the electric fluid to carry the news of, not of the price of cotton and flour, but it hinted
at the price of the world itself and of things which are priceless, of absolute truth and
beauty. Still the drum rolled on, and stirred our blood to fresh extravagance
that night.

The clarion sound and clang of corselet and buckler were heard from many a hamlet of the soul,
and many a knight was arming for the fight behind the encamped stars.
"Before each van Prick forth the aery knights, and couch their spears
Till thickest legions close; with feats of arms From either end of
Heaven the welkin burns."-------------- Away! away! away! away!

Ye have not kept your secret well, I will abide that other day, Those other lands ye tell. Has time
no leisure left for these, The acts that ye rehearse? Is not eternity a lease For better deeds
than verse?'T is sweet to hear of heroes dead, To know them still
alive, But sweeter if we earn their bread, And in us they survive.

Our life should feed the springs of fame With a perennial wave.

As ocean feeds the babbling founts Which find in it their grave.

Ye skies drop gently round my breast, And be my corselet blue, Ye earth receive my lance in rest,
My faithful charger you; Ye stars my spear-heads in the sky, My
arrow-tips ye are; I see the routed foemen fly, My bright spears
fixed are.

Give me an angel for a foe, Fix now the place and time, And straight to meet him I will go Above
the starry chime. And with our clashing bucklers'clang The heavenly spheres shall ring, While
bright the northern lights shall hang Beside our tourneying. And if she lose her champion true,
Tell Heaven not despair, For I will be her champion new, Her fame I will repair. There was a
high wind this night, which we afterwards learned had been still more violent elsewhere, and
had done much injury to the cornfields far and near; but we only heard it sigh from time to
time, as if it had no license to shake the foundations of our tent;
the pines murmured, the water rippled, and the tent rocked a little,
but we only laid our ears closer to the ground, while the blast swept
on to alarm other men, and long before sunrise we were ready to pursue
our voyage as usual.

[page] TUESDAY.^ Tennyson.^ [page] TUESDAY.--*-- Long before daylight we ranged abroad, hatchet in
hand, in search of fuel, and made the yet slumbering and dreaming wood resound with our blows. Then with our
fire we burned up a portion of the loitering night, while the kettle sang its homely strain to
the morning star. We tramped about the shore, waked all the muskrats, and scared up the bittern and
birds that were asleep upon their roosts; we hauled up and upset
our boat and washed it and rinsed out the clay, talking aloud as if
it were broad day, until at length, by three o'clock, we had completed
our preparations and were ready to pursue our voyage as usual; so,
shaking the clay from our feet, we pushed into the fog.

Though we were enveloped in mist as usual, we trusted that there
was a bright day behind it.

Ply the oars! away! away! In each dew-drop of the morning Lies the promise of a day. Rivers
from the sunrise flow, Springing with the dewy morn; Voyageurs'gainst
time do row, Idle noon nor sunset know, Ever even with the dawn.

Belknap, the historian of this State, says that, "In the neighborhood
of fresh rivers and ponds, a whitish fog in the morning lying over
the water is a sure indication of fair weather for that day; and when
no fog is seen, rain is expected before night."

That which seemed to us to invest the world was only a narrow and
shallow wreath of vapor stretched over the channel of the Merrimack
from the seaboard to the mountains.

More extensive fogs, however, have their own limits. I once saw the day break from the top of Saddle-back
Mountain in Massachusetts, above the clouds.

As we cannot distinguish objects through this dense fog, let me tell this story more at length. I
had come over the hills on foot and alone in serene summer days,
plucking the raspberries by the wayside, and occasionally buying a
loaf of bread at a farmer's house, with a knapsack on my back which
held a few traveller's books and a change of clothing, and a staff
in my hand.

I had that morning looked down from the Hoosack Mountain, where the road crosses it, on the village
of North Adams in the valley three miles away under my feet, showing
how uneven the earth may sometimes be, and making it seem an accident
that it should ever be level and convenient for the feet of man.

Putting a little rice and sugar and a tin cup into my knapsack at
this village, I began in the afternoon to ascend the mountain, whose
summit is three thousand six hundred feet above the level of the
sea, and was seven or eight miles distant by the path.

My route lay up a long and spacious valley called the Bellows, because the winds rush up or down it with
violence in storms, sloping up to the very clouds between the principal range and a lower mountain.
There were a few farms scattered along at different elevations, each commanding a fine prospect of
the mountains to the north, and a stream ran down the middle of the valley on which near the head
there was a mill. It seemed a road for the pilgrim to enter upon who would climb to the gates of heaven.
Now I crossed a hay-field, and now over the brook on a slight bridge,
still gradually ascending all the while with a sort of awe, and filled
with indefinite expectations as to what kind of inhabitants and what
kind of nature I should come to at last.

It now seemed some advantage that the earth was uneven, for one could not imagine a more noble position
for a farm-house than this vale afforded, farther from or nearer to its head, from a glen-like
seclusion overlooking the country at a great elevation between these two mountain
walls. It reminded me of the homesteads of the Huguenots, on Staten
Island, off the coast of New Jersey. The hills in the interior of this
island, though comparatively low, are penetrated in various directions
by similar sloping valleys on a humble scale, gradually narrowing
and rising to the centre, and at the head of these the Huguenots,
who were the first settlers, placed their houses quite within the
land, in rural and sheltered places, in leafy recesses where the breeze
played with the poplar and the gum-tree, from which, with equal security
in calm and storm, they looked out through a widening vista, over
miles of forest and stretching salt marsh, to the Huguenot's Tree,
an old elm on the shore at whose root they had landed, and across
the spacious outer bay of New York to Sandy Hook and the Highlands
of Neversink, and thence over leagues of the Atlantic, perchance to
some faint vessel in the horizon, almost a day's sail on her voyage
to that Europe whence they had come.

When walking in the interior there, in the midst of rural scenery, where there was as little to
remind me of the ocean as amid the New Hampshire hills, I have suddenly, through a gap, a cleft
or "clove road," as the Dutch settlers called it, caught sight of a ship under full sail, over a field
of corn, twenty or thirty miles at sea.

The effect was similar, since I had no means of measuring distances, to seeing a painted ship passed
backwards and forwards through a magic-lantern. But to return to the mountain. It seemed as
if he must be the most singular and heavenly minded man whose dwelling stood highest up the valley.
The thunder had rumbled at my heels all the way, but the shower passed
off in another direction, though if it had not, I half believed that
I should get above it.

I at length reached the last house but one, where the path to the summit diverged to the right, while
the summit itself rose directly in front. But I determined to follow up the valley to its head,
and then find my own route up the steep as the shorter and more adventurous
way.

I had thoughts of returning to this house, which was well kept and so
nobly placed, the next day, and perhaps remaining a week there, if
I could have entertainment.

Its mistress was a frank and hospitable young woman, who stood before
me in a dishabille, busily and unconcernedly combing her long black
hair while she talked, giving her head the necessary toss with each
sweep of the comb, with lively, sparkling eyes, and full of interest
in that lower world from which I had come, talking all the while as
familiarly as if she had known me for years, and reminding me of a
cousin of mine.

She at first had taken me for a student from Williamstown, for they went by in parties, she said, either
riding or walking, almost every pleasant day, and were a pretty wild
set of fellows; but they never went by the way I was going.

As I passed the last house, a man called out to know what I had to sell, for seeing my knapsack,
he thought that I might be a pedler who was taking this unusual route
over the ridge of the valley into South Adams.

He told me that it was still four or five miles to the summit by
the path which I had left, though not more than two in a straight
line from where I was, but that nobody ever went this way; there was
no path, and I should find it as steep as the roof of a house.

But I knew that I was more used to woods and mountains than he, and
went along through his cow-yard, while he, looking at the sun, shouted
after me that I should not get to the top that night.

I soon reached the head of the valley, but as I could not see the
summit from this point, I ascended a low mountain on the opposite
side, and took its bearing with my compass.

I at once entered the woods, and began to climb the steep side of the mountain in a diagonal direction,
taking the bearing of a tree every dozen rods.

The ascent was by no means difficult or unpleasant, and occupied much less time than it would have
taken to follow the path.

Even country people, I have observed, magnify the difficulty of travelling
in the forest, and especially among mountains.

They seem to lack their usual common sense in this. I have climbed several higher mountains without
guide or path, and have found, as might be expected, that it takes
only more time and patience commonly than to travel the smoothest
highway.

It is very rare that you meet with obstacles in this world which
the humblest man has not faculties to surmount.

It is true we may come to a perpendicular precipice, but we need not jump off nor run our heads against
it. A man may jump down his own cellar stairs or dash his brains out against his chimney, if
he is mad. So far as my experience goes, travellers generally exaggerate
the difficulties of the way. Like most evil, the difficulty is imaginary;
for what's the hurry?

"Look!" he urged in tones hushed to the wonder of her. Spike had looked.

"Gee!" breathed the stricken one mechanically. He would not have chosen the word, but it formed
a vent for his emotion.

"Bleached blonde," said Spike after a sharper scrutiny of the fair one, who now coquetted with
a circle of gallants.

"Isn't she?" exclaimed the new lover, admiringly.

With so golden a result to dazzle him, was he to quarrel pettishly with the way it had been
wrought?

"Do you suppose I could be introduced to her?" demanded Wilbur, timidly.

This marked the depth of his passion. He was too good a dancer to talk such nonsense ordinarily.

"Surest thing you know," said Spike. "Could you be introduced to her? In a split second! Come on!"

"But you don't know her yourself?" Wilbur hung back.

"Stop your kiddin'!"

Spike half dragged his fearful charge across the floor, not too subtly shouldered a way between
Bill Bardin and Terry Stamper, bowed gracefully to the strange beauty, and said, "Hello, sister!
Shake hands with my friend, Kid Cowan."

"Pleased to meet you!" She smiled graciously upon Wilbur and extended a richly jewelled hand,
which he timidly pressed. Then she turned to Spike Brennon. "I know your name, all right,"
she declared. "You're that Mister Fresh we hear so much about--giving introductions to parties
you ain't met yourself."

Wilbur Cowan blushed for Spike's faux pas, looking to see him slink off abashed, but there
were things he had yet to learn about his friend.

"Just for that," said Spike, "I'll take this dance with you." And brazenly he encircled her
waist as the music came anew.

"It's hot to-night," said Wilbur very simply to Terry Stamper and Bill Bardin as they moved
off the floor to an open window.

His dancing eyes followed Beauty in the dance, and he was at her side when the music ceased.
Until it came again he fanned by an open window her flushed and lovely face. Her name was Pearl.

"I wish this night would last forever," he murmured to her.

"Tut, tut!" said Pearl in humorous dismay, "and me having to be at business at seven A.M.!"

Only then did he learn that she was not a mere social butterfly, but one of the proletariat;
that, in truth, she waited on table at the Mansion. Instantly he constructed their future together.
He would free her from that life of toil.

"You're too beautiful for work like that," he told her.

Pearl eyed him with sudden approval.

"You're all right, kid. I often said the same thing myself, but no one's fell for it up to date."

They danced, and again they danced.

"You're the nicest boy in the bunch," murmured Pearl.

"I never saw any one so beautiful," said Wilbur.

Pearl smiled graciously. "I love the sound of your voice," she said.

She was wrested from him by Bill Bardin. When he would have retrieved her Terry Stamper had
secured her notice. So through another dance he stood aloof against the wall, moody now. It
might be only social finesse in Pearl but she was showing to others the same pleased vivacity
she had shown to him. Could it be she did not yet understand? Had she possibly not divined
that they two were now forever apart from the trivial world? They danced again.

"Don't you feel as if we'd always known each other?" he demanded.

"Sure, kid!" breathed Pearl.

It was after still another dance--she had meantime floated in the arms of a mere mill foreman.
This time he led her into the dusky hallway, where open windows brought the cool night to other
low-voiced couples. He led her to the farthest window, where the shadow was deepest, and they
looked out-above the roof of Rapp Brothers, Jewellery-to a sky of pale stars and a blond moon.

"Ain't it great?" said Pearl.

He stood close to her, trembling from the faintest contact with her loveliness. He wished to
kiss her-he must kiss her. But he was afraid. Pearl was sympathetic. She divined his trouble,
and in the deep shadow she adroitly did it herself. Then she rebuked his boldness.

"Say, but you're the quick little worker, seems to me!"

For a moment he was incapable of speech, standing mute, her warm hand in his.

"It's been a dream," he managed at last. "Just like a dream! Now you belong to me, don't you?"

"Sure, if you want to put it that way," said Pearl "Come on! there's the music again."

At the door she was taken from him by the audacious mill foreman. Wilbur was chilled. Pearl
had instantly recovered her public, or ballroom, manner. Could it be that she had not been
rightly uplifted by the greatness of their moment? Did she realize all it would mean to them?
But she was meltingly tender when at last they swayed in the waltz to "Home, Sweet Home." And
it was he who bore her off under the witching moon to the side entrance of the Mansion. They
lingered a moment in the protecting shadows. Pearl was chatty--not sufficiently impressed,
it seemed to him, with the sweet gravity of this crisis.

"We're engaged now," he reminded her. Pearl laughed lightly.

"Have it your own way, kid! Wha'd you say your name was?"

She kissed him again. Then he wandered off in the mystic night, far over a world reeling through
golden moonshine, to reach his dark but glowing little room at an hour that would have disquieted
Winona. It was the following day that he cheered her by displaying a new attention to his apparel,
and it was before the ensuing Friday night dance that he had submitted his hands to her for
embellishment--talking casually of love at first sight.

There followed for him a time of fearful delight, not unmarred by spells of troubled wonder.
Pearl was not exclusively enough his. She danced with other men; she chatted with them as with
her peers. She seemed even to encourage their advances. He would have preferred that she found
these repulsive, but she continued gay, even hard, under his chiding.

"Tut, tut! I been told I got an awfully feminine nature. A girl of my type is bound to have
gentleman friends," she protested.

He aged under this strain. He saw now that he must abandon his easy view about his future.
He must, indeed, plan his life. He must choose his vocation, follow it grimly, with one end
in view. He delighted Sam Pickering by continuing steadily at the linotype for five consecutive
weeks, while business piled up at the First-Class Garage and old Porter Howgill was asked vainly
to do everything.

Then on a fateful night Lyman Teaford assumed a new and disquieting value in his life. Lyman
Teaford, who for a dozen years had gone with Winona Penniman faithfully if not spectacularly;
Lyman Teaford, dignified and genteel, who belonged to Newbern's better set, had one night appeared
at an affair of the Friday Night Social Club. Perhaps because he had reached the perilous forties
he had suddenly determined to abandon the safe highway and seek adventure in miry bypaths.
Perhaps he felt that he had austerely played the flute too long. At any rate, he came and danced
with the lower element of Newbern, not oftener with Pearl than with others that first night.
But he came again and danced much oftener with Pearl. There was no quick, hot alarm in the
breast of Wilbur Cowan. Lyman Teaford was an old man, chiefly notable, in Wilbur's opinion,
for the remarkable fluency of his Adam's apple while--with chin aloft--he played high notes
on his silver flute.

Yet dimly at last he felt discomfort at Lyman's crude persistence with Pearl. He danced with
others now only when Pearl was firm in refusals. Wilbur to her jested with venomous sarcasm
at the expense of Lyman. Women were difficult to understand, he thought. What could her motive be?

The drama, Greek in its severity, culminated with a hideous, a sickening velocity. On a Monday
morning, in but moderate torment at Pearl's inconsistency, Wilbur Cowan sat at the linotype
in the Advance office, swiftly causing type metal to become communicative about the week's
doings in Newbern. He hung a finished sheet of Sam Pickering's pencilled copy on a hook, and
casually surveyed the sheet beneath. It was a social item, he saw--the notice of a marriage.
Then names amazingly leaped from it to sear his defenseless eyes. Lyman Teaford--Miss Pearl
King! He gasped and looked about him. The familiar routine of the office was under way. In
his little room beyond he could see Sam Pickering scribbling other items. He constrained himself
to read the monstrous slander before him.

"Lyman N. Teaford, one of our best-known business men, was last evening united in the bonds
of holy wedlock to Miss Pearl King, for some months employed at the Mansion House. The marriage
service was performed by the Reverend Mallett at the parsonage, and was attended by only a
few chosen friends. The happy pair left on the six-fifty-eight for a brief honeymoon at Niagara
Falls, and on their return will occupy the Latimer mansion on North Oak Street, recently purchased
by the groom in view of his approaching nuptials. A wide circle of friends wish them all happiness."

Wilbur Cowan again surveyed the office, and again peered sharply in at Sam Pickering. His first
wild thought was that Sam had descended to a practical joke. If so it was a tasteless proceeding.
But he must be game. It was surely a joke, and Sam and the others in the office would be watching
him for signs of anguish. His machine steadily clicked off the item. He struck not one wrong
letter. He hung the sheet of copy on its hook and waited for the explosion of crude humour.
He felt that his impassive demeanour had foiled the mean intention. But no one regarded him.
Sam Pickering wrote on. Terry Stamper stolidly ran off cards on the job press. They were all
indifferent. Something told him it was not a joke.

He finished the next sheet of copy. Then, when he was certain he had not been jested with,
he rose from the torturing machine, put on his coat, and told Sam Pickering he had an engagement.
Sam hoped it wouldn't keep him from work that afternoon.

Wilbur said "Possibly not," though he knew he would now loathe the linotype forever.

"By the way"--he managed it jauntily, as Sam bent again over his pad of yellow copy paper--"I
see Lyme Teaford's name is going to be in print this week."

Sam paused in his labour and chuckled.

"Yes, the old hard-shell is landed. That blonde hasn't been bringing him his three meals a
day all this time for nothing."

"She must have married him for his money," Wilbur heard himself saying in cold, cynical tones.
The illumining thought had just come. That explained it.

"Sure," agreed Sam. "Why wouldn't she?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Late that afternoon, in the humble gymnasium at the rear of Pegleg McCarron's, Spike Brennon
emerged from a rally in which Wilbur Cowan had displayed unaccustomed spirit. Spike tenderly
caressed his nose with a glove and tried to look down upon it. The swelling already showed
to his oblique gaze.

"Say, kid," he demanded, irritably, "what's the big idea? Is this murder or jest a friendly
bout? You better behave or I'll stop pullin' my punches."

It could not be explained to the aggrieved Spike that his opponent had for the moment convinced
himself that he faced one of Newbern's best-known business men.

Later he contented himself with observing Lyman Teaford at Niagara Falls. The fatuous groom
stood heedlessly at the cataract's verge. There was a simple push, and the world was suddenly
a better place to live in. As for his bereaved mate--he meditated her destruction, also, but
this was too summary. It came to him that she had been a lovely and helpless victim of circumstances.
For he had stayed on with Spike through the evening, and in a dearth of custom Spike, back
of the bar, had sung in a whining tenor, "For she's only a bird in a gilded cage----"

That was it. She had discarded him because he was penniless--had sold herself to be a rich
man's toy. She would pay for it in bitter anguish.

"Only a bird in a gilded cage," sang Spike again. An encore had been urged.

At noon the following day Winona Penniman, a copy of the Advance before her, sat at the Penniman
luncheon table staring dully into a dish of cold rice pudding. She had read again and again
the unbelievable item. At length she snapped her head, as Spike Brennon would when now and
again a clean blow reached his jaw, pushed the untouched dessert from her with a gesture of
repugnance, and went aloft to her own little room. Here she sat at her neat desk of bird's
eye maple, opened her journal, and across a blank page wrote in her fine, firm hand, "What
Life Means to Me."

It had seemed to her that it meant much. She would fill many pages. The name of Lyman Teaford
would not there appear, yet his influence would be continuously present. She was not stricken
as had been another reader of that fateful bit of news. But she was startled, feeling herself
perilously cast afloat from old moorings. She began bravely and easily, with a choice literary
flavour.

"My sensations may be more readily imagined than described."

This she found true. She could imagine them readily, but could not, in truth, describe them.
She was shocked to discern that for the first time in her correct life there were distinctly
imagined sensations which she could not bring herself to word, even in a volume forever sacred
to her own eyes. A long time she sat imagining. At last she wrote, but the words seemed so petty.

All apparently that life meant to her was "How did she do it?"

She stared long at this. Then followed, as if the fruit of her further meditation: "There is
a horrid bit of slang I hear from time to time--can it be that I need more pepper?"

After this she took from the bottom drawer of her bureau that long-forgotten gift from the
facetious Dave Cowan. She held the stockings of tan silk before her, testing their fineness,
their sheerness. She was still meditating. She snapped her dark head, perked it as might a
puzzled wren.

"Certainly, more pepper!" she murmured.

CHAPTER XIV

A world once considered of enduring stability had crashed fearsomely about the ears of Winona
Penniman and Wilbur Cowan. After this no support was to be trusted, however seemingly stout.
Old foundations had crumbled, old institutions perished, the walls of Time itself lay wrecked.
They stared across the appalling desolation with frightened eyes. What next? In a world to
be ruined at a touch, like a house of cards, what vaster ruin would ensue?

It did not shock Wilbur Cowan that nations should plunge into another madness the very day
after a certain fair one, mentioned in his meditations as "My Pearl--My Pearl of great price,"
and eke--from the perfume label--"My Heart of Flowers," had revealed herself but a mortal woman
with an eye for the good provider. It occasioned Winona not even mild surprise that the world
should abandon itself to hideous war on the very day after Lyman Teaford had wed beyond the
purple. It was awful, yet somehow fitting. Anything less than a World War would have appeared
inconsequent, anti-climactic, to these two so closely concerned in the preliminary catastrophe,
and yet so reticent that neither ever knew the other's wound. Wilbur Cowan may have supposed
that the entire Penniman family, Winona included, would rejoice that no more forever were they
to hear the flute of Lyman Teaford. Certainly Winona never suspected that a mere boy had been
desolated by woman's perfidy and Lyman's mad abandonment of all that people of the better sort
most prize.

Other people, close observers of world events, declared that no real war would ensue; it would
be done in a few days--a few weeks at most. But Winona and Wilbur knew better. Now anything
could happen--and would. Of all Newbern's wise folk these two alone foresaw the malign dimensions
of the inevitably approaching cataclysm. They would fall grimly silent in the presence of conventional
optimists. They knew the war was to be unparalleled for blood and tears, but they allowed themselves
no more than sinister, vague prophecies, for they could not tell how they knew.

And they saw themselves active in war. They lost no time in doing that. The drama of each drew
to a splendid climax with the arrival in Newbern of a French officer--probably a general--bound
upon a grave mission. Wilbur's general came to seek out the wife of Lyman Teaford.

To her he said in choice English: "Madame, I bring you sad news. This young man died gallantly
on the field of battle--the flag of my country was about to be captured by the enemy when he
leaped bravely forward, where no other would dare the storm of shot and shell, and brought
the precious emblem safely back to our battle line. But even as the cheers of his comrades
rang in his ears an enemy bullet laid him low. I sprang to his side and raised his head. His
voice was already weak, for the bullet had found rest in his noble heart.

"'Tell her,' he breathed, 'that she sent me to my death so that she might become only a bird
in a gilded cage. But tell her also that I wish her happiness in her new life.' Madame, he
died there, while weeping soldiers clustered about with hats off and heads bowed--died with
your name on his pale lips---'My Pearl of great price,' he whispered, and all was over. I bring
you this photograph, which to the last he wore above his heart. Observe the bullet hole and
those dark stains that discolour your proud features."

Whereupon Mrs. Lyman Teaford would fall fainting to the floor and never again be the same woman,
bearing to her grave a look of unutterable sadness, even amid the splendours of the newly furnished
Latimer residence on North Oak Street.

Winona's drama was less depressing. Possibly Winona at thirty-two had developed a resilience
not yet achieved by Wilbur at twenty. She was not going to die upon a field of battle for any
Lyman Teaford. She would brave dangers, however. She saw herself in a neat uniform, searching
a battlefield strewn with the dead and wounded. To the latter she administered reviving cordial
from a minute cask suspended at her trim waist by a cord. Shells burst about her, but to these
she paid no heed. It was thus the French officer--a mere lieutenant, later promoted for gallantry
under fire--first observed her. He called her an angel of mercy, and his soldiers--rough chaps,
but hearty and outspoken--cheered her as La Belle Americaine.

So much for the war. But the French officer--a general now, perhaps with one arm off--came
to Newbern to claim his bride. He had been one of the impetuous sort that simply would not
take no for an answer. The wedding was in the Methodist church, and was a glittering public
function. The groom was not only splendidly handsome in a French way, but wore a shining uniform,
and upon his breast sparkled a profusion of medals. A vast crowd outside the church waited
to cheer the happy couple, and slinking at the rear of this was a drab Lyman Teaford--without
medals, without uniform, dull, prosaic, enduring at this moment pangs of the keenest remorse
for his hasty act of a year before. He, too, would never be the same man again.

In truth, the beginning Teaford ménage lay under the most unfavourable portents. Things looked
dark for it.

Yet despite the forebodings of Wilbur and Winona, it began to be suspected, even by them, that
the war would wear itself out, as old Doctor Purdy said, by first intention. And in spite of
affecting individual dramas they began to feel that it must wear itself out with no help from
them. It seemed to have settled into a quarrel among foreign nations with which we could rightfully
have no concern. Winona learned, too, that her picture of the nurse on a battlefield administering
cordial to wounded combatants from the small keg at her waist was based upon an ancient and
doubtless always fanciful print.

Wilbur, too, gathered from the newspapers that, though he might die upon a battlefield, there
was little chance that a French general would be commissioned to repeat his last words to Mrs.
Lyman Teaford of Newbern Center. He almost decided that he would not become a soldier. Some
years before, it is true, he had been drawn to the life by a government poster, designed by
one who must himself have been a capable dramatist.

"Join the Army and See the World," urged the large-lettered legend above the picture.

The latter revealed an entrancing tropical scene with graceful palms adorning the marge of
a pinkly sun-kissed sea. At a table in the background two officers consulted with a private
above an important-looking map, while another pleased-looking private stood at attention near
by. At the left foreground a rather obsequious-looking old colonel seemed to be entreating
a couple of spruce young privates to drop round for tea that afternoon and meet the ladies.

Had Wilbur happened upon this poster in conjunction with the resolve of Miss Pearl King to
be sensible, it is possible his history might have been different. But its promise had faded
from his memory ere his life was wrecked. He felt now merely that he ought to settle down to
something. Even Sharon Whipple plainly told him so. He said it was all right to knock about
from one thing to another while you were still in the gristle. Up to twenty a boy's years were
kind of yeasty and uncertain, and if he was any way self-headed he ought to be left to run.
But after twenty he lost his pinfeathers and should begin to think about things.

So Wilbur began to think about things. He continued to do everything that old Porter Howgill
was asked to do, to repair cars for the Mansion garage, and to be a shield and buckler to Sam
Pickering in time of need. The Advance office became freshly attractive at this time, because
Sam had installed a wonderful new power press to print the paper daily; for the Advance, as
Sam put it, could be found ever in the van of progress.

The new press had innermost secrets of structure that were presently best known to Wilbur Cowan.
No smeared small boy was required to ink its forms and no surmounting bronze eagle was reported
to scream for beer when the last paper was run off. Even Dave Cowan, drifting in from out of
the nowhere--in shoes properly describable as only memories of shoes--said she was a snappy
little machine, and applauded his son's easy mastery of it.

So the days of Wilbur were busy days, even if he had not settled far enough down to suit either
Sam Pickering, Porter Howgill--who did everything, if asked--or the First-Class Garage. And
the blight put upon him by a creature as false as she was beautiful proved not to be enduring.
He was able, indeed, to behold her without a tremor, save of sympathy for one compelled to
endure the daily proximity of Lyman Teaford.

But the war prolonged itself as only he and Winona had felt it would, and presently it began
to be hinted that a great nation, apparently unconcerned with its beginning, might eventually
be compelled to a livelier interest in it. Herman Vielhaber was a publicly exposed barometer
of this sentiment. At the beginning he beamed upon the world and predicted the Fatherland's
speedy triumph over all the treacherous foes. When the triumph was unaccountably delayed he
appeared mysterious, but not less confident. The Prussian system might involve delay, but Prussian
might was none the less invincible. Herman would explain the Prussian system freely to all
who cared to listen--and many did attentively--from high diplomacy to actual fighting. He left
many of his hearers with a grateful relief that neutrality had been officially enjoined upon them.

Later Herman beamed less brightly as he recounted tales of German prowess. He came to exhibit
a sort of indignant pity for the Fatherland, into whose way so many obstacles were being inopportunely
thrown. He compared Germany to a wounded deer that ravenous dogs were seeking to bring down,
but his predictions of her ultimate victory were not less confident. Minna Vielhaber wept back
of the bar at Herman's affecting picture of the stricken deer with the arrow in her flank,
and would be comforted only when he brought the war to a proper close.

It was at this time that Winona wrote in her journal: "General Sherman said that war is the
bad place. He knew."

It was also at this time that a certain phrase from a high source briefly engaged the notice
of Sharon Whipple.

"Guinea pigs," said he, "are also too proud to fight, but they ain't ever won the public respect
on that account. They get treated accordingly."

It was after this that Sharon was heard ominously to wish that he were thirty or forty years
younger. And it was after this that Winona became active as a promoter of bazaars for ravaged
Belgium and a pacifist whose watchword was "Resist not evil!" She wrote again in her journal:
"If only someone would reason calmly with them!" She presently became radiant with hope, for
a whole boatload of earnest souls went over to reason calmly with the combatants.

But the light she had seen proved deceiving. The earnest souls went forward, but for some cause,
never fully revealed to Winona, they had been unable to reason calmly with those whose mad
behaviour they had meant to correct. It was said that they had been unable to reason calmly
even among themselves. It was merely a mark of Winona's earnestness that she felt things might
have gone differently had the personnel of this valiant embassy been enlarged to include herself.
Meantime, war was becoming more and more the bad place, just as General Sherman had said. She
had little thought now for silk stockings or other abominations of the frivolous, for her own
country seemed on the very verge of committing a frightful error.

Some time had elapsed since Wilbur Cowan definitely knew that he would never go to war because
of the mother of Lyman Teaford's infant son. He began to believe, however, that he would relish
a bit of fighting for its own sake. Winona reasoned with him as she would have reasoned with
certain high personages on the other side of the water, and perhaps with as little success.
He replied cryptically that he was an out-and-out phagocyte, and getting more so every time
he read a newspaper. Winona winced at the term--it seemed to carry sinister implications. Where
did the boy hear such words?

This one he had heard on a late Sunday afternoon when he sat, contrary to a municipal ordinance
of Newbern, in the back room of Herman Vielhaber, with certain officials sworn to uphold that
ordinance, who drank beer and talked largely about what we should do; for it had then become
shockingly apparent that the phrase about our being too proud to fight had been, in its essential
meaning, misleading. Dave Cowan, citizen of the world and student of its structure, physical
and social, had proved that war, however regrettable, was perhaps never to be avoided; that
in any event one of the best means to avoid it was to be known for your fighting ways. Anyway,
war was but an incident in human progress.

Dave's hair had thinned in the years of his wandering to see a man at Seattle or New Orleans,
and he now wore spectacles, without which he could no longer have enlarged his comprehension
of cosmic values, for his latest Library of Universal Knowledge was printed in very small type.
Dave said that since the chemicals had got together to form life everything had lived on something
else, and the best livers had always been the best killers. He did not pretend to justify the
plan, but there it was; and it worked the same whether it was one microscopic organism preying
on another or a bird devouring a beetle or Germany trying to swallow the world. Rapp, Senior,
said that was all very well, but these pacifists would keep us out of war yet. Doctor Purdy,
with whom he had finished a game of pinochle--Herman Vielhaber had lately been unable to keep
his mind on the game--set down his beer stein in an authoritative manner, having exploded with
rage even while he swallowed some of the last decent beer to come to Newbern Center. He wiped
froth from his waistcoat.

"Pacifists!" he stormed. "Why don't they ever look into their own bodies? They couldn't live
a day on non-resistance to evil. Every one of their bodies is thronged with fighting soldiers.
Every pacifist is a living lie. Phagocytes, that's what they are--white corpuscles--and it's
all they're there for. They believe in preparedness hard enough. See 'em march up to fight
when there's an invasion! And how they do fight! These pacifists belie their own construction.
They're built on a fight from the cradle and before that.

"I wish more of their own phagocytes would begin to preach non-resistance and try to teach
great moral lessons to invading germs. We wouldn't have to listen to so many of 'em. But phagocytes
don't act that way. They keep in training. They don't say, like that poor old maunderer I read
this morning, that there's no use preparing--that a million phagocytes will spring to arms
overnight if their country's invaded. They keep in trim. They fight quick. If they didn't we
wouldn't be here."

"These phagocytes--is infantry, yes?" demanded Herman Vielhaber. "I never hear 'em named before
like that."

"Infantry, and all the other branches, in a healthy body--and our own body is healthy. Watch
our phagocytes come forward now, just as those tiny white corpuscles rush through the blood
to an invaded spot. You'll see 'em come quick. Herman, your country has licked Belgium and
Serbia--you can rightly claim that much. But she'll never get another decision. Too many phagocytes." 

That which commenced a rock when time was young, shall conclude a pebble in the unequal contest.
With such expense of time and natural forces are our very paving-stones produced. They teach
us lessons, these dumb workers; verily there are "sermons in stones, and books in the running
streams." In these very holes the Indians hid their provisions; but
now there is no bread, but only its old neighbor stones at the bottom.

Who knows how many races they have served thus?

By as simple a law, some accidental by-law, perchance, our system itself was made ready for its
inhabitants.

These, and such as these, must be our antiquities, for lack of human vestiges. The monuments
of heroes and the temples of the gods which may once have stood on the banks of this river
are now, at any rate, returned to dust and primitive soil. The murmur of unchronicled nations
has died away along these shores, and once more Lowell and Manchester
are on the trail of the Indian.

The fact that Romans once inhabited her reflects no little dignity on Nature herself; that
from some particular hill the Roman once looked out on the sea.

She need not be ashamed of the vestiges of her children. How gladly the antiquary informs us that
their vessels penetrated into this frith, or up that river of some
remote isle!

Their military monuments still remain on the hills and under the
sod of the valleys.

The oft-repeated Roman story is written in still legible characters in every quarter of the Old
World, and but to-day, perchance, a new coin is dug up whose inscription repeats and confirms
their fame.

Some "Judaea Capta" with a woman mourning under a palm-tree, with silent argument and demonstration
confirms the pages of history.

"Rome living was the world's sole ornament; And dead is now the world's
sole monument...... With her own weight down pressed now she lies,
And by her heaps her hugeness testifies."

If one doubts whether Grecian valor and patriotism are not a fiction
of the poets, he may go to Athens and see still upon the walls of
the temple of Minerva the circular marks made by the shields taken
from the enemy in the Persian war, which were suspended there.

We have not far to seek for living and unquestionable evidence. The very dust takes shape and confirms
some story which we had read. As Fuller said, commenting on the zeal
of Camden, "A broken urn is a whole evidence; or an old gate still
surviving out of which the city is run out."

When Solon endeavored to prove that Salamis had formerly belonged to the Athenians, and not to the Megareans,
he caused the tombs to be opened, and showed that the inhabitants of Salamis turned the faces of
their dead to the same side with the Athenians, but the Megareans to the opposite side. There
they were to be interrogated. Some minds are as little logical or argumentative as nature; they can
offer no reason or "guess," but they exhibit the solemn and incontrovertible fact. If a historical
question arises, they cause the tombs to be opened. Their silent and
practical logic convinces the reason and the understanding at the
same time.

Of such sort is always the only pertinent question and the only satisfactory
reply.

Our own country furnishes antiquities as ancient and durable, and as useful, as any; rocks at least
as well covered with lichens, and a soil which, if it is virgin, is but virgin mould, the very
dust of nature. What if we cannot read Rome, or Greece, Etruria, or Carthage, or Egypt, or Babylon, on these;
are our cliffs bare? The lichen on the rocks is a rude and simple shield which beginning and imperfect
Nature suspended there.

Still hangs her wrinkled trophy. And here too the poet's eye may
still detect the brazen nails which fastened Time's inscriptions, and
if he has the gift, decipher them by this clew. The walls that fence
our fields, as well as modern Rome, and not less the Parthenon itself,
are all built of ruins.

Here may be heard the din of rivers, and ancient winds which have long since lost their names
sough through our woods;-- the first faint sounds of spring, older than the summer of Athenian
glory, the titmouse lisping in the wood, the jay's scream, and blue-bird's warble, and the hum
of "bees that fly About the laughing blossoms of sallowy." Here is the gray dawn for antiquity, and our
to-morrow's future should be at least paulo-post to theirs which we have put behind us. There
are the red-maple and birchen leaves, old runes which are not yet
deciphered; catkins, pine-cones, vines, oak-leaves, and acorns; the
very things themselves, and not their forms in stone,-- so much the
more ancient and venerable.

And even to the current summer there has come down tradition of a hoary-headed master of all
art, who once filled every field and grove with statues and god-like architecture, of every design
which Greece has lately copied; whose ruins are now mingled with the dust, and not one block remains
upon another.

The century sun and unwearied rain have wasted them, till not one
fragment from that quarry now exists; and poets perchance will feign
that gods sent down the material from heaven.

What though the traveller tell us of the ruins of Egypt, are we so sick or idle, that we must
sacrifice our America and to-day to some man's ill-remembered and indolent story? Carnac and Luxor
are but names, or if their skeletons remain, still more desert sand, and at length a wave of the Mediterranean
Sea are needed to wash away the filth that attaches to their grandeur.

Carnac! Carnac! here is Carnac for me. I behold the columns of a larger and purer temple. This
is my Carnac, whose unmeasured dome Shelters the measuring art and measurer's home. Behold these flowers,
let us be up with time, Not dreaming of three thousand years ago,
Erect ourselves and let those columns lie, Not stoop to raise a foil
against the sky.

Where is the spirit of that time but in This present day, perchance the present line? Three thousand
years ago are not agone, They are still lingering in this summer morn,
And Memnon's Mother sprightly greets us now, Wearing her youthful
radiance on her brow.

If Carnac's columns still stand on the plain, To enjoy our opportunities they remain. In these
parts dwelt the famous Sachem Pasaconaway, who was seen by Gookin "at Pawtucket, when he was
about one hundred and twenty years old." He was reputed a wise man and
a powwow, and restrained his people from going to war with the English.
They believed "that he could make water burn, rocks move, and trees
dance, and metamorphose himself into a flaming man; that in winter
he could raise a green leaf out of the ashes of a dry one, and produce
a living snake from the skin of a dead one, and many similar miracles."

In 1660, according to Gookin, at a great feast and dance, he made
his farewell speech to his people, in which he said, that as he was
not likely to see them met together again, he would leave them this
word of advice, to take heed how they quarrelled with their English
neighbors, for though they might do them much mischief at first, it
would prove the means of their own destruction.

He himself, he said, had been as much an enemy to the English at their first coming as any, and
had used all his arts to destroy them, or at least to prevent their settlement, but could by no
means effect it. Gookin thought that he "possibly might have such a kind of spirit upon him as was
upon Balaam, who in xxiii.

Numbers, 23, said` Surely, there is no enchantment against Jacob, neither is there any divination
against Israel.'" His son Wannalancet carefully followed his advice, and when Philip's War broke
out, he withdrew his followers to Penacook, now Concord in New Hampshire,
from the scene of the war.

On his return afterwards, he visited the minister of Chelmsford, and, as is stated in the history
of that town, "wished to know whether Chelmsford had suffered much during the war; and being informed
that it had not, and that God should be thanked for it, Wannalancet
replied,` Me next.'"

Manchester was the residence of John Stark, a hero of two wars, and
survivor of a third, and at his death the last but one of the American
generals of the Revolution. He was born in the adjoining town of Londonderry,
then Nutfield, in 1728.

As early as 1752, he was taken prisoner by the Indians while hunting in the wilderness near
Baker's River; he performed notable service as a captain of rangers in the French war; commanded
a regiment of the New Hampshire militia at the battle of Bunker Hill; and fought and won the battle
of Bennington in 1777. He was past service in the last war, and died
here in 1822, at the age of 94.

His monument stands upon the second bank of the river, about a mile
and a half above the falls, and commands a prospect several miles up
and down the Merrimack. It suggested how much more impressive in the
landscape is the tomb of a hero than the dwellings of the inglorious
living.

Who is most dead,-- a hero by whose monument you stand, or his descendants
of whom you have never heard?

The graves of Pasaconaway and Wannalancet are marked by no monument
on the bank of their native river.

Every town which we passed, if we may believe the Gazetteer, had been
the residence of some great man. But though we knocked at many doors,
and even made particular inquiries, we could not find that there
were any now living.

Under the head of Litchfield we read:-- "The Hon. Wyseman Clagett
closed his life in this town." According to another, "He was a classical
scholar, a good lawyer, a wit, and a poet." We saw his old gray house
just below Great Nesenkeag Brook.-- Under the head of Merrimack: "Hon.
Mathew Thornton, one of the signers of the Declaration of American
Independence, resided many years in this town."

His house too we saw from the river.-- "Dr. Jonathan Gove, a man distinguished for his urbanity,
his talents and professional skill, resided in this town [Goffstown]. He was one of the oldest
practitioners of medicine in the county. He was many years an active member of the legislature."--
"Hon. Robert Means, who died Jan. 24, 1823, at the age of 80, was for a long period a resident
in Amherst. He was a native of Ireland. In 1764 he came to this country, where, by his industry
and application to business, he acquired a large property, and great respect."--
"William Stinson [one of the first settlers of Dunbarton], born in
Ireland, came to Londonderry with his father.

He was much respected and was a useful man. James Rogers was from Ireland, and father to Major Robert
Rogers. He was shot in the woods, being mistaken for a bear."-- "Rev. Matthew Clark, second minister
of Londonderry, was a native of Ireland, who had in early life been an officer in the army, and
distinguished himself in the defence of the city of Londonderry, when besieged by the army of
King James II. A. D. 1688-9. He afterwards relinquished a military
life for the clerical profession.

He possessed a strong mind, marked by a considerable degree of eccentricity. He died Jan. 25, 1735,
and was borne to the grave, at his particular request, by his former
companions in arms, of whom there were a considerable number among
the early settlers of this town; several of them had been made free
from taxes throughout the British dominions by King William, for their
bravery in that memorable siege."-- Col. George Reid and Capt. David
M'Clary, also citizens of Londonderry, were "distinguished and brave"
officers.-- "Major Andrew M'Clary, a native of this town [Epsom],
fell at the battle of Breed's Hill."-- Many of these heroes, like
the illustrious Roman, were ploughing when the news of the massacre
at Lexington arrived, and straightway left their ploughs in the furrow,
and repaired to the scene of action.

Some miles from where we now were, there once stood a guide-post on which were the words, "3
miles to Squire MacGaw's."

But generally speaking, the land is now, at any rate, very barren of men, and we doubt if there
are as many hundreds as we read of. It may be that we stood too near.

Uncannunuc Mountain in Goffstown was visible from Amoskeag, five or six miles westward. It is the
north-easternmost in the horizon, which we see from our native town, but seen from there is too
ethereally blue to be the same which the like of us have ever climbed. Its name is said to mean "The
Two Breasts," there being two eminences some distance apart. The highest, which is about fourteen hundred
feet above the sea, probably affords a more extensive view of the
Merrimack valley and the adjacent country than any other hill, though
it is somewhat obstructed by woods.

Only a few short reaches of the river are visible, but you can trace its course far down stream
by the sandy tracts on its banks. A little south of Uncannunuc, about sixty years ago, as the story
goes, an old woman who went out to gather pennyroyal, tript her foot in the bail of a small brass
kettle in the dead grass and bushes. Some say that flints and charcoal and some traces of a camp were also found.
This kettle, holding about four quarts, is still preserved and used to dye thread in. It is supposed to
have belonged to some old French or Indian hunter, who was killed in one of his hunting or scouting
excursions, and so never returned to look after his kettle. But we were most interested to hear of
the pennyroyal, it is soothing to be reminded that wild nature produces anything ready for the
use of man. Men know that something is good. One says that it is yellow-dock,
another that it is bitter-sweet, another that it is slippery-elm
bark, burdock, catnip, calamint, elicampane, thoroughwort, or pennyroyal.

A man may esteem himself happy when that which is his food is also his medicine. There is no kind of
herb, but somebody or other says that it is good. I am very glad to hear it. It reminds me
of the first chapter of Genesis. But how should they know that it is good? That is the mystery to
me. I am always agreeably disappointed; it is incredible that they should have found it out. Since
all things are good, men fail at last to distinguish which is the bane, and which the antidote. There
are sure to be two prescriptions diametrically opposite. Stuff a cold and starve a cold are but two
ways. They are the two practices both always in full blast. Yet you must take advice of the one
school as if there was no other. In respect to religion and the healing art, all nations are
still in a state of barbarism. In the most civilized countries the priest is still but a Powwow,
and the physician a Great Medicine. Consider the deference which is everywhere paid to a doctor's
opinion. Nothing more strikingly betrays the credulity of mankind
than medicine.

Quackery is a thing universal, and universally successful. In this case it becomes literally true
that no imposition is too great for the credulity of men.

Priests and physicians should never look one another in the face. They
have no common ground, nor is there any to mediate between them.

When the one comes, the other goes. They could not come together without laughter, or a significant
silence, for the one's profession is a satire on the other's, and either's success would be
the other's failure. It is wonderful that the physician should ever die, and that the priest should
ever live. Why is it that the priest is never called to consult with the physician? Is it because
men believe practically that matter is independent of spirit. But
what is quackery?

It is commonly an attempt to cure the diseases of a man by addressing his body alone. There is
need of a physician who shall minister to both soul and body at once,
that is, to man.

Now he falls between two souls. After passing through the locks,
we had poled ourselves through the canal here, about half a mile in
length, to the boatable part of the river.

Above Amoskeag the river spreads out into a lake reaching a mile or two without a bend. There were
many canal-boats here bound up to Hooksett, about eight miles, and as they were going up empty with
a fair wind, one boatman offered to take us in tow if we would wait. But when we came alongside,
we found that they meant to take us on board, since otherwise we
should clog their motions too much; but as our boat was too heavy
to be lifted aboard, we pursued our way up the stream, as before,
while the boatmen were at their dinner, and came to anchor at length
under some alders on the opposite shore, where we could take our
lunch.

Though far on one side, every sound was wafted over to us from the opposite
bank, and from the harbor of the canal, and we could see everything
that passed.

By and by came several canal-boats, at intervals of a quarter of a mile, standing up to Hooksett with
a light breeze, and one by one disappeared round a point above. With their broad sails set,
they moved slowly up the stream in the sluggish and fitful breeze, like one-winged antediluvian
birds, and as if impelled by some mysterious counter-current. It was a grand motion, so slow
and stately, this "standing out," as the phrase is, expressing the
gradual and steady progress of a vessel, as if it were by mere rectitude
and disposition, without shuffling.

Their sails, which stood so still, were like chips cast into the current of the air to show
which way it set. At length the boat which we had spoken came along, keeping the middle of the
stream, and when within speaking distance the steersman called out ironically to say, that
if we would come alongside now he would take us in tow; but not heeding his taunt, we still loitered
in the shade till we had finished our lunch, and when the last boat had disappeared round the point with
flapping sail, for the breeze had now sunk to a zephyr, with our own sails set, and plying our oars,
we shot rapidly up the stream in pursuit, and as we glided close
alongside, while they were vainly invoking Aeolus to their aid, we
returned their compliment by proposing, if they would throw us a rope,
to "take them in tow," to which these Merrimack sailors had no suitable
answer ready.

Thus we gradually overtook and passed each boat in succession until we had the river to ourselves again.
Our course this afternoon was between Manchester and Goffstown.------------- While we float here,
far from that tributary stream on whose banks our Friends and kindred dwell, our thoughts, like
the stars, come out of their horizon still; for there circulates a finer blood than Lavoisier has
discovered the laws of,-- the blood, not of kindred merely, but of kindness, whose pulse still
beats at any distance and forever. True kindness is a pure divine affinity, Not founded upon
human consanguinity. It is a spirit, not a blood relation, Superior to family and station. After years
of vain familiarity, some distant gesture or unconscious behavior,
which we remember, speaks to us with more emphasis than the wisest
or kindest words.

We are sometimes made aware of a kindness long passed, and realize that there have been times when
our Friends'thoughts of us were of so pure and lofty a character that they passed over us
like the winds of heaven unnoticed; when they treated us not as what
we were, but as what we aspired to be.

There has just reached us, it may be, the nobleness of some such silent behavior, not to be forgotten,
not to be remembered, and we shudder to think how it fell on us cold,
though in some true but tardy hour we endeavor to wipe off these
scores.

In my experience, persons, when they are made the subject of conversation, though with a Friend,
are commonly the most prosaic and trivial of facts.

The universe seems bankrupt as soon as we begin to discuss the character of individuals. Our
discourse all runs to slander, and our limits grow narrower as we advance. How is it that we
are impelled to treat our old Friends so ill when we obtain new
ones?

The housekeeper says, I never had any new crockery in my life but I began to break the old. I say,
let us speak of mushrooms and forest trees rather. Yet we can sometimes afford to remember
them in private. Lately, alas, I knew a gentle boy, Whose features all were cast in Virtue's
mould, As one she had designed for Beauty's toy, But after manned him for her own strong-hold. On every
side he open was as day, That you might see no lack of strength within, For walls and ports do only
serve alway For a pretence to feebleness and sin. Say not that Caesar was victorious, With toil
and strife who stormed the House of Fame, In other sense this youth was glorious, Himself a kingdom
wheresoe'er he came. No strength went out to get him victory, When all was income of its own
accord; For where he went none other was to see, But all were parcel of their noble lord. He forayed like the
subtile haze of summer, That stilly shows fresh landscapes to our eyes, And revolutions works without
a murmur, Or rustling of a leaf beneath the skies. So was I taken unawares
by this, I quite forgot my homage to confess; Yet now am forced to
know, though hard it is, I might have loved him had I loved him less.

       Each moment as we nearer drew to each, A stern respect withheld
us farther yet, So that we seemed beyond each other's reach, And
less acquainted than when first we met.

We two were one while we did sympathize, So could we not the simplest bargain drive; And what avails
it now that we are wise, If absence doth this doubleness contrive? Eternity may not the chance
repeat, But I must tread my single way alone, In sad remembrance that we once did meet, And
know that bliss irrevocably gone. The spheres henceforth my elegy shall sing, For elegy has other
subject none; Each strain of music in my ears shall ring Knell of departure from that other
one. Make haste and celebrate my tragedy; With fitting strain resound ye woods and fields;
Sorrow is dearer in such case to me Than all the joys other occasion
yields.----------- Is't then too late the damage to repair? Distance,
forsooth, from my weak grasp hath reft The empty husk, and clutched
the useless tare, But in my hands the wheat and kernel left.

If I but love that virtue which he is, Though it be scented in the morning air, Still shall we be
truest acquaintances, Nor mortals know a sympathy more rare.

Friendship is evanescent in every man's experience, and remembered
like heat lightning in past summers.

Fair and flitting like a summer cloud;-- there is always some vapor
in the air, no matter how long the drought; there are even April
showers.

Surely from time to time, for its vestiges never depart, it floats through our atmosphere.
It takes place, like vegetation in so many materials, because there is such a law, but always without
permanent form, though ancient and familiar as the sun and moon,
and as sure to come again. The heart is forever inexperienced. They
silently gather as by magic, these never failing, never quite deceiving
visions, like the bright and fleecy clouds in the calmest and clearest
days.

The Friend is some fair floating isle of palms eluding the mariner in Pacific seas. Many are the dangers to be encountered,
equinoctial gales and coral reefs, ere he may sail before the constant
trades.

But who would not sail through mutiny and storm, even over Atlantic waves, to reach the fabulous
retreating shores of some continent man? The imagination still clings to the faintest tradition
of THE ATLANTIDES. The smothered streams of love, which flow More bright than Phlegethon, more
low, Island us ever, like the sea, In an Atlantic mystery. Our fabled shores none ever reach, No mariner
has found our beach, Scarcely our mirage now is seen, And neighboring
waves with floating green, Yet still the oldest charts contain Some
dotted outline of our main; In ancient times midsummer days Unto the
western islands'gaze, To Teneriffe and the Azores, Have shown our
faint and cloud-like shores.

But sink not yet, ye desolate isles, Anon your coast with commerce
smiles, And richer freights ye'll furnish far Than Africa or Malabar.

"Sent over quick--not kept here. This guy is high up; he can get us sent."

"Good!"

"Only thing worries me," said Spike--"sleepin' out of doors. It ain't healthy. They tell me
you sleep any old place--on the ground or in a chicken coop--makes no matter. I never did sleep
out of doors, and I hate to begin now; but I s'pose I got to. Mebbe, time we git there, they'll
have decent beds. I admit I'm afraid of sleepin' out on the ground. It ain't no way to keep
your health."

He ruminated busily with the gum.

"Another thing, kid, you got to remember. In the box-fightin' game sometimes even second money
is good. I pulled down a few nice purses in my time. But this here gun-fightin' stuff, it's
winner take all every time. In a gun fight second money is mud. Remember that. And we ain't
got the education to be officers. We got to do plain fightin'."

"Plain fighting!" echoed Wilbur. "And I'll tell you another thing. From what I hear they might
put me to driving a car, but you bet I ain't going to take that long trip and get seasick,
probably, just to fool round with automobiles. I'm going to be out where you are--plain fighting.
So remember this--I don't know a thing about cars or motors. Never saw one till I come into
the Army."

"You're on!" said Spike. "Now let's eat while we can. They tell me over in the war your meals
is often late."

They ate at T-bone Tommy's, consuming a vast quantity of red meat with but a minor accompaniment
of vegetables. They were already soldiers. They fought during the meal several sharp engagements,
from which they emerged without a scratch.

"We'll be takin' a lot of long chances, kid," cautioned Spike. "First thing we know--they might
be saying it to us with flowers."

"Let 'em talk!" said the buoyant Wilbur. "Of course we'll get into trouble sooner or later."

"Sure!" agreed Spike. "Way I look at it, I got about one good fight left in me. All I hope
is, it'll be a humdinger."

Later they wandered along River Street, surveying the little town with new eyes. They were
far off---"over where the war was taking place," as Spike neatly put it--surveying at that
long range the well-remembered scene; revisiting it from some remote spot where perhaps it
had been said to them with flowers.

"We'd ought to tell Herman Vielhaber," said Spike. "Herman's a Heinie, but he's a good scout
at that."

"Sure!" agreed Wilbur.

They found Herman alone at one of his tables staring morosely at an untouched glass of beer.
The Vielhaber establishment was already suffering under the stigma of pro-Germanism put upon
it by certain of the watchful towns-people. Judge Penniman, that hale old invalid, had even
declared that Herman was a spy, and signalled each night to other spies by flapping a curtain
of his lighted room above the saloon. The judge had found believers, though it was difficult
to explain just what information Herman would be signalling and why he didn't go out and tell
it to his evil confederates by word of mouth. Herman often found trade dull of an evening now,
since many of his old clients would patronize his rival, Pegleg McCarron; for Pegleg was a
fervent patriot who declared that all Germans ought to be in hell. Herman greeted the newcomers
with troubled cordiality.

"Sed down, you boys. What you have? Sasspriller? All right! Mamma, two sassprillers for these
young men."

Minna Vielhaber brought the drink from the bar. Minna had red eyes, and performed her service
in silence, after which she went moodily back to her post.

They drank to Herman's health and to Minna's, and told of their decision.

"Right!" said Herman. "I give you right." He stared long at his beer. "I tell you, boys," he
said at last, "mamma and me we got in a hard place, yes. Me? I'm good American--true blue.
I got my last papers twenty-two years ago. I been good American since before that. Mamma, too.
Both good. Then war comes, and I remember the Fatherland--we don't never furgit that, mind
you, even so we are good Americans. But I guess mebbe I talk a lot of foolishness about Germany
whipping everybody she fight with. I guess I was too proud of that country that used to be
mine. You know how it is, you boys; you remember your home and your people kind of nice, mebbe."

"Sure!" said Spike. "Me? I was raised down back of the tracks in Buffalo--one swell place fur
a kid to grow up--but honest, sometimes I git waked up in the night, and find m'self homesick
fur that rotten dump. Sure, I know how you feel, Herman."

Herman, cheered by this sympathy, drank of his beer. Putting down the glass, he listened intently.
Minna, at the bar, was heard to be weeping.

"Mamma," he called, gruffly, "you keep still once. None of that!"

Minna audibly achieved the commanded silence. Herman listened until satisfied of this, then
resumed:

"Well, so fur, so good. Then Germany don't act right, so my own country got to fight her. She's
got to fight her! I'd get me another country if she didn't. But now people don't understand
how I feel so. They say: 'Yes, he praise Germany to the sky; now I guess he talk the other
side of his mouth purty good.' They don't understand me. I want Germany should be punished
good, and my country she's goin' to do it good. That is big in my heart. But shall I go out
on the street and holler, 'To hell with Germany?' Not! Because people would know I lied, and
I would know. I want Germany should be well whipped till all them sheep's heads is out of high
places, but I can't hate Germans. I could punish someone good and not hate 'em. I'm a German
in my blood, but you bet I ain't a pro-German.

"Mamma, again I tell you keep still once--and now you boys goin' to fight. That's good! Me,
I would go if I was not too old; not a better German fighter would they have than me. I kill
'em all what come till I fall over myself. You boys remember and fight hard, so we make the
world nice again. I bet you fight good--strong, husky boys like you. And I hope you come back
strong and hearty and live a long time in a world you helped to put it right. I hope some day
you have children will be proud because you was good Americans, like mine would be if we had
a little one. I hope you teach 'em to fight quick for their own good country. Now--prosit!"

They drank, and in the stillness Minna Vielhaber was again heard to be lamenting. Herman addressed
her harshly:

"Mamma, now again I beg you shall keep still once."

Minna appeared from back of the bar and became coherent.

"I wassn't cryin' no tears for Germans--wass cryin' fur them!" She waved a damp towel at Herman's
guests. Herman soothed her.

"Now, now--them boys take care of themselves. Likely they have a little trouble here and there
or some place, but they come back sound--I tell you that. Now you dry up--you make some other
people feel that way. Hear me?" Minna subsided.

"You bet," resumed Herman, "we're Americans good. Mebbe I can't tell people so now, like they
believe me; it's hard to believe I want Germans whipped good if I don't hate 'em, but it's
true--and lots others besides me. They come in my place, Dagoes, Wops, Hunnyacks, Swedes, Jews,
every breed, and what you think--they keep talkin' about what us Americans had ought to do
to lick Germany. It's funny, yes? To hear 'em say us Americans, but when you know them foreigners
mean it so hard--well, it ain't funny! It's good!

"And me? Say, I tell you something. If any one say I ain't good American I tell you this: I
stand by America like I was born here. I stand by her if she fight Germany just as if she fight
France. I stand by her in war, and I do more than that. You listen! Now comes it they say the
country's goin' to be dry and put me out of business. What you think of that, hey? So they
will shut booze joints like that feller McCarron runs, and even a nice place like this. So
you can't buy a glass beer or a schoppen Rhine wine. What you think? Mebbe it's all talk, mebbe
not. But listen! This is my country, no matter what she does; I stand by her if she fights
Germany to death; and by God, I stand by her if she goes dry! Could I say more? Prosit!"

CHAPTER XVI

The next day Wilbur Cowan sought Sharon Whipple with the news that he meant to do a bit of
plain fighting overseas. He found the old man in the stable, in troubled controversy with a
rebellious car. He sat stonily at the wheel and at intervals pressed a determined heel upon
a self-starter that would whir but an impotent protest. He glared up at Wilbur as the latter
came to rest beside the car.

"Well, what now?" He spoke impatiently.

"I'm going to enlist; I thought I would tell you."

Sharon pointed the heavy brows at him with a thumb and uttered a disparaging "Humph!" Then
he appeared to forget the announcement, and pressed again on the self-starter, listening above
its shrill song for the deeper rumble of the engine. This did not ensue, and he shifted his
heel, turning a plaintive eye upon the young man.

"She don't seem to excite," he said. "I've tried and tried, and I can't excite her."

It was an old, old story to Wilbur Cowan.

"Press her again," he directed. Sharon pressed and the other raptly listened. "Ignition," he said.

He lifted the hood on one side and with a pair of pliers manipulated what Sharon was never
to know as anything but her gizzard, though the surgeon, as he delicately wrought, murmured
something about platinum points.

"Try her!" Sharon tried her.

"Now she excites!" he exploded, gleefully, as the hum of the motor took up the shrill whir
of the self-starter. He stopped the thing and bent a reproachful gaze upon Wilbur.

"Every one else leaving me--even that Elihu Titus. I never thought you would, after the way
we've stood together in this town. I had a right to expect something better from you. I'd like
to know how I'm goin' to get along without you. You show a lot of gratitude, I must say."

"Well, I thought--"

"Oh, I knew you'd go--I expected that!"

"Yes, sir," said Wilbur.

"You wouldn't been any good if you hadn't. Even that Elihu Titus went."

"Yes, sir," said Wilbur. He had been waiting to ask Sharon's opinion about the only troubling
element in his decision. This seemed the moment. "You don't suppose--you don't think perhaps
the war will be stopped or anything, just as I get over there?"

Sharon laboured with a choice bit of sarcasm.

"No, I guess it'll take more'n you to stop it, even with that Elihu Titus going along. Of course,
some spy may get the news to 'em that you've started, and they may say, 'Why keep up the struggle
if this Cowan boy's goin' in against us?' But my guess is they'll brazen it out for a month
or so longer. Of course they'll be scared stiff."

Wilbur grinned at him, then spoke gravely.

"You know what I mean--Merle. He says the plain people will never allow this war to go on,
because they've been tricked into it by Wall Street or something. I read it in his magazine.
They're working against the war night and day, he says. Well, all I mean, I'd hate to go over
there and be seasick and everything and then find they had stopped it."

Intently, grimly, Sharon climbed from his car. His short, fat leg went back and he accurately
kicked an empty sprinkling can across the floor. It was a satisfying object to kick; it made
a good noise and came to a clattering rest on its dented side. It was so satisfying that with
another kick he sent the can bounding through an open door.

"Gave it the second barrel, didn't you?" said Wilbur. Sharon grinned now.

"Just a letter to your brother," he explained. Then he became profanely impassioned. "Fudge!
Fudge and double fudge! Scissors and white aprons! Prunes and apricots! No! That war won't
be stopped by any magazine! Go on--fight your fool head off! Don't let any magazine keep you back!"

"Yes, sir," said Wilbur.

"They can't stop the war, because there are too many boys like you all over this land. Trick
or no trick, that's what they're up against. You'll all fight--while they're writing their
magazines. Your reactions are different. That's a word I got from the dirty thing--and from
that brother of yours. He gets a lot of use out of that word--always talking about his reactions.
Just yesterday I said to him: 'Take care of your actions and your reactions will take care
of themselves.' He don't cotton to me. I guess I never buttered him up with praise any too
much. His languageousness gets on me. He's got Gideon and Harvey D. on a hot griddle, too,
though they ain't lettin' on. Here the Whipples have always gone to war for their country--Revolutionary
War and 1812, Mexican War, Civil War, Spanish-American--Harvey D. was in that. Didn't do much
fighting, but he was belligerent enough. And now this son of his sets back and talks about
his reactions! What I say--he's a Whipple in name only."

"He's educated," protested Wilbur, quick to defend this brother, even should he cheat him out
of the good plain fighting he meant to do.

"Educated!" Sharon imitated a porpoise without knowing it. "Educated out of books! All any
of that rabble rout of his knows is what they read secondhand. They don't know people. Don't
know capitalists. Don't even know these wage slaves they write about. That's why they can't
stop the war. They may be educated, but you're enlightened. They know more books, but you know
more life in a minute than they'll ever know--you got a better idea of the what-for in this
world. Let 'em write! You fight! If it rests on that hairy bunch to stop the war you'll get
a bellyful of fighting. They're just a noisy fringe of buzzers round the real folks of this
country."

"Yes, sir," said Wilbur. "I thought I'd ask."

"Well, now you know. Shove off!"

"Yes, sir." Sharon's tone changed to petulance.

"That's right, and leave me here to farm twenty-five hundred acres all by myself, just when
I was going to put in tractors. That's the kind you are--just a fool country-town boy, with
a head full of grand notions. Well, somebody's got to raise food for the world. She's goin'
short pretty soon or I miss my guess. Somebody's got to raise bread and meat. All right, leave
me here to do the dirty work while you flourish round over there seein' the world and havin'
a good time. I'm sick of the sight of you and your airs. Get out!"

"Yes, sir."

"When you leaving?"

"To-morrow night--six-fifty-eight."

"Sooner the better!"

"Yes, sir."

Sharon turned back to the car, grumbling incoherent phrases. He affected to busy himself with
the mechanism that had just been readjusted, looking at it wisely, thumbing a valve, though
with a care to leave things precisely as they were.

       *       *       *       *       *

That afternoon as Sharon made an absorbed progress along River Street he jostled Winona Penniman,
who with even a surpassing absorption had been staring into the window of one of those smart
shops marking Newbern's later growth. Whereas boots and shoes had been purchased from an establishment
advertising simple Boots and Shoes, they were now sought by people of the right sort from this
new shop which was labelled the Élite Bootery.

Winona had halted with assumed carelessness before its attractively dressed window displaying
a colourful array of satin dancing slippers with high heels and bejewelled toes. Winona's assumption
of carelessness had been meant to deceive passers-by into believing that she looked upon these
gauds with a censorious eye, and not as one meaning flagrantly to purchase of them. Her actual
dire intention was nothing to flaunt in the public gaze. Nor did she mean to voice her wishes
before a shopful of people who might consider them ambiguous.

Four times she had passed the door of the shop, waiting for a dull moment in its traffic. Now
but two women were left, and they seemed to be waiting only for change. Her resolution did
not falter; she was merely practising a trained discretion. She was going to buy a pair of
satin dancing slippers though the whole world should look upon her as lost. Too long, she felt,
had she dwelt among the untrodden ways. As she had confided to her journal, the placid serenity
of her life had become a sea of mad unrest. Old moorings had been wrenched loose; she floated
with strange tides. And Wilbur Cowan, who was going to war, had invited her to be present that
evening at the opening of Newbern's new and gorgeous restaurant, where the diners, between
courses and until late after dinner, would dance to the strains of exotic and jerky music,
precisely as they did in the awful city.

Winona had not even debated a refusal. The boy should be gratified. Nor did she try to convince
herself that her motive was wholly altruistic. She had suddenly wished to mingle in what she
was persuaded would be a scene of mad revelry. She had definitely abandoned the untrodden ways.
She thought that reading about war might have unsettled her ideals. Anyway, they were unsettled.
She was going to this place of the gay night life--and she was going right!

It was while she still waited, perturbed but outwardly cool, that the absorbed Sharon Whipple
brushed her shoulder. She wondered if her secret purpose had been divined. But Sharon apparently
was engrossed by other matters than the descent into frivolity of one who had long been austere.

"Well," he said, beaming on her, "our boy is going over."

Winona was relieved.

"Yes, he's off, but he'll come back safe."

"Oh, I know that! Nothing could hurt him, but I'll miss the skeesicks." He ruminated, then
said pridefully: "That boy is what my son would have been if I'd had one. You can't tell me
any son of my get and raising would have talked about his reactions when this time come!"

Winona winced ever so slightly at this way of putting it, but smiled valiantly.

"Publishing magazines full of slander about George Washington, and this new kind of stubby-ended
poetry!"

"It is very different from Tennyson," said Winona.

"The other one's a man," went on Sharon. "You remember when you was worried because he wouldn't
settle down to anything? Well, you watch him from now on! He hasn't got the book knowledge,
but he's got a fine outdoors education, and that's the kind we need most. Don't you see that
fine look in his eye--afraid of nothing, knowing how to do most anything? His is the kind makes
us a great country--outdoor boys from the little towns and farms. They're the real folks. I'm
awful proud of him, though I ain't wanting that to get out on me. I been watching him since
he was in short pants. He's dependable--knows how. Say, I'm glad he took to the outdoors and
didn't want to dress up every day and be a clerk in a store or a bank or some place like that.
Wasn't it good?"

"Wasn't it?" said Winona, bravely.

"We need this kind in war, and we'll need it even more when the war is over--when he comes back."

"When he comes back," echoed Winona. And then with an irrelevance she could not control: "I'm
going to a dance with him to-night." Her own eyes were dancing strangely as she declared it.

"Good thing!" said Sharon. He looked her over shrewdly. "Seems to me you're looking younger
than you ought to," he said.

Winona pouted consciously for the first time in her hitherto honest life.

"You're looking almighty girlish," added Sharon with almost a leer, and Winona suffered a fearful
apprehension that her ribs were menaced by his alert thumb. She positively could not be nudged
in public. She must draw the line somewhere, even if she had led him on by pouting. She stepped
quickly to the door of the Elite Bootery.

"He'll come back all right," said Sharon. "Say, did I ever tell you how he got me to shootin'
a good round of golf? I tried it first with the wooden bludgeons, and couldn't ever make the
little round lawns under seven or eight--parties snickering their fool heads off at me. So
I says I can never make the bludgeons hit right. I don't seem to do more'n harass the ball
into 'em, so he says try an iron all the way. So I tried the iron utensils, and now I get on
the lawn every time in good shape, I can tell you. Parties soon begun to snicker sour all at
once, I want you to know. It ain't anything for me to make that course in ninety-eight or"--Sharon's
conscience called aloud--"or a hundred and ten or fifteen or thereabouts, in round numbers."

"I'm so glad," said Winona.

"I give him all the credit. And"--he turned after starting on--"he'll come back--he'll come
back to us!"

Winona drew a fortifying breath and plunged into the Elite Bootery. She was perhaps more tight-lipped
than usual, but to the not-too-acute observer this would have betokened mere businesslike determination
instead of the panic it was. She walked grimly to a long bench, seated herself, and placed
her right foot firmly upon a pedestal, full in the gaze of a clerk who was far too young, she
instantly perceived, for negotiations of this delicacy.

"I wish to purchase," she began through slightly relaxed lips, "a pair of satin dancing slippers
like those in your window--high-heeled, one strap, and possibly with those jewelled buckles."
She here paused for another breath, then continued tremendously: "Something in a shade to go
with--with these!"

With dainty brazenness the small hand at her knee obeyed an amazing command from her disordered
brain and raised the neat brown skirt of Winona a full two inches, to reveal a slim ankle between
which and an ogling world there gleamed but the thinnest veneer of tan silk.

Winona waited breathless. She had tortured herself with the possible consequences of this adventure.
She had even conceived a clerk of forbidding aspect who would now austerely reply: "Woman,
how dare you come in here and talk that way? You who have never worn anything but black cotton
stockings, or lisle at the worst, and whose most daring footwear has been a neat Oxford tie
with low heels, such as respectable women wear? Full well you know that a love for the sort
of finery you now describe--and reveal--is why girls go wrong. And yet you come shamelessly
in here--no, it is too much! You forget yourself! Leave the place at once!"

Sometimes this improvisation had concluded with a homily in kinder words, in which she would
be entreated to go forth and try to be a better woman. And sometimes, but not often, she had
decided that a shoe clerk, no matter his age, would take her request as a mere incident in
the day's trade. Other women wore such things, and perforce must buy them in a public manner.
She had steeled her nerve to the ordeal, and now she flushed with a fine new confidence, for
the clerk merely said, "Certainly, madam"--in the later shops of Newbern they briefly called
you madam--and with a kind of weary, professional politeness fell to the work of equipping
her. A joyous relief succeeded her panic. She not only declared a moment later that her instep
was far too high, but fitted at last in a slipper of suitable shade she raised her skirt again
as she posed before a mirror that reached the floor. Winona was coming on. Had come!

       *       *       *       *       *

Late that afternoon, while a last bit of chiffon was being tacked to a dancing frock which
her mother had been told to make as fancy as she pleased, Winona hastily scribbled in her journal:
"Am I of a gay disposition? Too gay, too volatile? No matter! It is an agreeable defect where
one retains discretion sufficient for its regulation. This very night I am one of a party avowedly
formed for pleasure, something my reflective mind would once have viewed with disapprobation.
But again no matter. Perhaps I have been too analytical, too introspective. Perhaps the war
has confused my sense of spiritual values. War is such a mistake!"

It was a flushed and sparkling Winona who later fluttered down the dull old stairs of the respectable
Penniman home at the call of the waiting Wilbur Cowan. Her dark hair was still plainly, though
rather effectively, drawn about her small head--she had definitely rebuffed the suggestion
of her mother that it be marcelled--but her wisp of a frock of bronze gossamer was revolutionary
in the extreme. Mrs. Penniman had at last been fancy in her dressmaking for her child, and
now stood by to exclaim at her handiwork. Winona, with surprising aplomb, bore the scrutiny
of the family while she pulled long white gloves along her bare arms. A feathered fan dangled
from one of them.

"Now, I guess you believe me," said Mrs. Penniman. "Haven't I always said what a few little
touches would do for you?" Proudly she adjusted a filmy flounce to a better line. "And such
lovely, lovely slippers!"

The slippers were indeed to be observed by one and all. The short dancing frock was in that year.

Wilbur Cowan was appreciative.

"Some kid!" he cried; "an eyeful!"

Winona pouted for the second time that day, instead of rebuking him for these low phrases of
the street. Only Judge Penniman caviled.

"Well, I'd like to know what we're coming to," he grumbled. "The idee of a mere chit like her
goin' out to a place that's no better than a saloon, even if you do guzzle your drinks at a
table--and in a dug-out dress!"

Winona, instead of feeling rebuked, was gratified to be called a mere chit. She pouted at the
invalid.

"Poor father!" she loftily murmured, and stood while her mother threw the evening cloak about
her acceptable shoulders.

It was true that at the La Bohême alcoholic stimulant would be served to those who desired
it, but this was not compulsory, and the place was in no sense a common saloon. Her father
was old-fashioned, as he had shown himself to be about the lawless new dance steps that Wilbur
had been teaching her. He had declared that if people performed such antics in public without
music they'd mighty soon find themselves in the lockup, and Winona had not even shuddered.
Now, as he continued to grumble at this degeneracy, she gracefully tapped his arm with her
fan. She had read of this device being effectively employed by certain conquerors of men, and
coolly she tried it upon her father. She performed the trifle gracefully, and it seemed of
value audacious and yet nothing to be misunderstood by a really clean-minded man. She tapped
the judge again as they left, with a minor variation of the technic. The judge little knew
that he but served as a dummy at target practice.

The car in which Wilbur conveyed his guest to the scene of revelry was not of an elegance commensurate
with Winona's. It was a mongrel of many makes, small, battered, and of a complaining habit.
He had acquired it as a gift from one who considered that he bestowed trash, and had transformed
it into a thing of noisy life, knowing, as a mother knows of her infant, what each of its squeaks
and rattles implied. It was distressing, in truth, to look upon, but it went. Indeed, the proud
owner had won a race with it from a too-outspoken critic who drove a much superior car. Nor
did the hero disregard him, but leaping on the shore, Stretching hand to hand, Received the
mystic clod. But I hear it sinking from the deck, Go with the sea brine At evening, accompanying
the watery sea.

Often indeed I urged the careless Menials to guard it, but their minds forgot. And now in this
island the imperishable seed of spacious Libya Is spilled before
its hour.

"It is a beautiful fable, also related by Pindar, how Helius, or the Sun, looked down into the
sea one day,-- when perchance his rays were first reflected from some increasing glittering
sandbar,-- and saw the fair and fruitful island of Rhodes" springing
up from the bottom, Capable of feeding many men, and suitable for
flocks; and at the nod of Zeus, "The island sprang from the watery
Sea; and the genial Father of penetrating beams, Ruler of fire-breathing
horses, has it."

The shifting islands! who would not be willing that his house should be
undermined by such a foe!

The inhabitant of an island can tell what currents formed the land
which he cultivates; and his earth is still being created or destroyed.

There before his door, perchance,
still empties the stream which brought down the material of his farm ages before,
and is still bringing it down or washing it away,-- the graceful,
gentle robber!

Not long after this we saw the Piscataquoag, or Sparkling Water, emptying in on our left,
and heard the Falls of Amoskeag above. Large quantities of lumber, as we read in the Gazetteer, were
still annually floated down the Piscataquoag to the Merrimack, and there are many fine mill privileges
on it. Just above the mouth of this river we passed the artificial falls where the canals of the
Manchester Manufacturing Company discharge themselves into the Merrimack.

They are striking enough to have a name, and, with the scenery of a Bashpish, would be visited from
far and near. The water falls thirty or forty feet over seven or eight steep and narrow terraces
of stone, probably to break its force, and is converted into one mass of foam. This canal-water
did not seem to be the worse for the wear, but foamed and fumed as purely, and boomed as savagely
and impressively, as a mountain torrent, and, though it came from
under a factory, we saw a rainbow here.

These are now the Amoskeag Falls, removed a mile down-stream. But
we did not tarry to examine them minutely, making haste to get past
the village here collected, and out of hearing of the hammer which
was laying the foundation of another Lowell on the banks.

At the time of our voyage Manchester was a village of about two thousand inhabitants, where
we landed for a moment to get some cool water, and where an inhabitant told us that he was accustomed
to go across the river into Goffstown for his water. But now, as I have been told, and indeed have witnessed,
it contains fourteen thousand inhabitants. From a hill on the road between Goffstown and Hooksett,
four miles distant, I have seen a thunder-shower pass over, and the
sun break out and shine on a city there, where I had landed nine years
before in the fields; and there was waving the flag of its Museum,
where "the only perfect skeleton of a Greenland or river whale in
the United States" was to be seen, and I also read in its directory
of a "Manchester Athenaeum and Gallery of the Fine Arts."

According to the Gazetteer, the descent of Amoskeag Falls, which are
the most considerable in the Merrimack, is fifty-four feet in half
a mile.

We locked ourselves through here with much ado, surmounting the successive
watery steps of this river's staircase in the midst of a crowd of
villagers, jumping into the canal to their amusement, to save our boat
from upsetting, and consuming much river-water in our service.

Amoskeag, or Namaskeak, is said to mean "great fishing-place." It was hereabouts that the Sachem Wannalancet
resided. Tradition says that his tribe, when at war with the Mohawks,
concealed their provisions in the cavities of the rocks in the upper
part of these falls. The Indians, who hid their provisions in these
holes, and affirmed "that God had cut them out for that purpose,"
understood their origin and use better than the Royal Society, who in
their Transactions, in the last century, speaking of these very holes, declare
that "they seem plainly to be artificial."

Similar "pot-holes" may be seen at the Stone Flume on this river, on the Ottaway, at Bellows'Falls
on the Connecticut, and in the limestone rock at Shelburne Falls
on Deerfield River in Massachusetts, and more or less generally about
all falls.

"D'you see Merle's picture in that New York paper yesterday?--all hair and eyeglasses, and
leaning one temple on the two first fingers of the right hand--and guess what it said--'Young
millionaire socialist who denounces country's entrance into war!' Watch him--he's trying to
look like the picture now! Uncle Sharon read the 'millionaire socialist,' and barked like a
mad dog. He says: 'Yes, he'd be a millionaire socialist if he was going to be any kind, and
if he was going to be a burglar he'd have to be one of these dress-suit burglars you always
read about.'

"Of course he's awfully severe on Merle for not going to fight, but how could he with his bad
eyes? He couldn't see to shoot at people, poor thing; and besides, he's too clever to be wasted
like a common soldier. He starts people to thinking--worth-while people. He says so himself.
Mixed up with all sorts of clever things with the most wonderful names--garment workers and
poet radicals and vorticists and new-arters and everything like that, who are working to lift
us up so nobody will own anything and everybody can have what he wants. Of course I don't understand
everything they say, but it sounds good, so sympathetic, don't you think?"

She had paused often with the little smile that implored pity for her rattlepatedness. Now
it prolonged itself as the orchestra became wildly alive.

Winona had but half listened to Patricia's chatter. She had been staring instead at the girl's
hair--staring and wondering lawlessly. She had seen advertisements. Might her own hair be like
that--"like tarnished gold," she put it? Of course you had to keep putting the stuff on at
the roots as it grew out. But would her colour blend with that shade? Patricia's skin had the
warm fairness of new milk, but Winona was dusky. Perhaps a deeper tint of auburn----

She was recalled from this perilous musing by Rapp, Senior, who came pressing his handkerchief
to a brow damp from the last dance. He bowed to Winona.

"May I have this pleasure?" he said. Winona rose like a woman of the world.

"We're on the map at last," said Rapp, Senior, referring to Newbern's newest big-town feature.

"I know I'm on the map at last," said Winona, coyly, and tapped the arm of Rapp, Senior, with
her feathered trifle of a fan.

"Dance?" said Wilbur to Patricia.

"Thanks a heap! Merle won't. He says how can he dance when thinking of free Russia? But did
you see those stunning Russian dancers? It doesn't keep them from dancing, does it? Poor old
Merle is balmy--mice in his wainscoting."

They danced, and Patricia was still the rattlepate.

"You're going over, Uncle Sharon told us. Merle says you're a victim of mob reaction--what
does that mean? No matter. Pretty soon he said you'd be only a private. Grandpa Gideon looked
as if he had bitten into a lemon. He says, 'I believe privates form a very important arm of
the service'--just like that. He's not so keen on Merle, but he won't admit it. With him it's
once a Whipple always a Whipple! When he saw Merle's picture, leaning the beautiful head on
the two long fingers and the hair kind of scrambly, he just said, 'Ah, you young scamp of a
socialist!' as if he were saying, 'Oh, fie on you!' Merle can talk the whole bunch down when
he gets to shooting on all six--sounds good, but I've no doubt it's just wise twaddle.

"What a stunning dancer you are! Ask me quick again so I won't have to go back to free Russia.
I'll promise to nurse you when you get wounded over there. I'll have learned to do everything
by that time. Wouldn't it be funny if you were brought in some day with a lot of wounds and
I'd say, 'Why, dear me, that's someone I know! You must let me nurse him back to health,' and
of course they would. Anyway, the family's keen about my going. They think I ought to do my
bit, especially as Merle can't, because of his eyes. Be sure you ask me again."

He asked her again and yet again. He liked dancing with her. Sometimes when she talked her
eyes were like green flames. But she talked of nothing long and the flames would die and her
little waiting smile come entreating consideration for her infirmities.

"Now you be sure to come straight to me directly you're wounded," she again cautioned him as
they parted.

He shook hands warmly with her. He liked the girl, but he hoped there would be other nurses
at hand if this thing occurred; that is, if it proved to be anything serious.

"Anyway, I hope I'll see you," he said. "I guess home faces will be scarce over there."

She looked him over approvingly.

"Be a good soldier," she said.

Again they shook hands. Then she fluttered off under the gloomy charge of Merle, who had remained
austerely aloof from the night's gayety. Wilbur had had but a few words with him, for Patricia
claimed his time.

"You seem a lot older than I do now," he said, and Merle, brushing back the errant lock, had
replied: "Poor chap, you're a victim of the mob reaction. Of course I'm older now. I'm face
to face with age-long problems that you've never divined the existence of. It does age one."

"I suppose so," agreed Wilbur.

He felt shamed, apologetic for his course. Still he would have some plain fighting, Wall Street
or no Wall Street.

He wrested a chattering Winona from Mrs. Henrietta Plunkett at the door of the ladies' cloakroom.
Mrs. Plunkett was Newbern's ablest exponent of the cause of woman, and she had been disquieted
this night at observing signs of an unaccustomed frivolity in one of her hitherto stanchest
disciples.

"I can't think what has come over you!" she had complained to Winona. "You seem like a different
girl!"

"I am a different girl!" boasted Winona.

"You do look different--your gown is wonderfully becoming, and what lovely slippers!" Mrs.
Plunkett inspected the aged debutante with kindly eyes. "But remember, my dear, we mustn't
let frivolities like this divert our attention from the cause. A bit more of the good fight
and we shall have come into our own."

"All this wonderful mad evening I have forgotten the cause," confessed Winona.

"Mercy!" said Mrs. Plunkett. "Forgotten the cause? One hardly does that, does one, without
a reason?"

"I have reasons enough," said Winona, thinking of the new dancing slippers and the frock.

"Surely, my dear, you who are so free and independent are not thinking of marriage?"

Winona had not been thinking of marriage. But now she did.

"Well"--she began--"of course, I----"

"Mercy! Not really! Why, Winona Penniman, would you barter your independence for a union that
must be demeaning, at least politically, until our cause is won?"

"Well, of course----" Winona again faltered, tapping one minute toe of a dancing slipper on
the floor.

"Do you actually wish," continued Henrietta Plunkett, rising to the foothills of her platform
manner, "to become a parasite, a man's bond slave, his creature? Do you wish to be his toy,
his plaything?"

"I do!" said Winona low and fervently, as if she had spoken the words under far more solemn
auspices.

"Mercy me! Winona Penniman!"

And Wilbur Cowan had then come to bear her off to her room, that echoed with strange broken
music and light voices and the rhythmic scuffing of feet on a floor--and to the privacy of
her journal.

"I seem," she wrote, "to have flung wisdom and prudence to the winds. Though well I know the
fading nature of all sublunary enjoyments, yet when I retire shortly it will be but to protract
the fierce pleasure of this night by recollection. Full well I know that Morpheus will wave
his ebon wand in vain."

Morpheus did just that. Long after Winona had protracted the fierce enjoyment of the night
to a vanishing point she lay wakeful, revolving her now fixed determination to take the nursing
course that Patricia Whipple would take, and go far overseas, where she could do a woman's
work; or, as she phrased it again and again, be a girl of some use in a vexed world.

In the morning she learned for the first time that Wilbur was to go to war in company with
a common prize fighter. It chilled her for the moment, but she sought to make the best of it.

"I hope," she told Wilbur, "that war will make a better man of your friend."

"What do you mean--a better man?" he quickly wanted to know. "Let me tell you, Spike's a pretty
good man right now for his weight. You ought to see him in action once! Don't let any one fool
you about that boy! What do you expect at a hundred and thirty-three--a heavyweight?"

After he had gone, late that afternoon, after she had said a solemn farewell to him in the
little room of the little house in the side yard, Winona became reckless.

She studied without wincing the crouched figure of hostile eye, even though the costume was
not such as she would have selected for a young man.

"After all, he's only a boy," she murmured. She studied again the intent face. "And he looks
as if he had an abundance of pepper."

She hoped she would be there to nurse them both if anything happened. She had told Wilbur this,
but he had not been encouraging. He seemed to believe that nothing would happen to either of them.

"Of course we'll be shot at," he admitted, "but like as not they'll miss us."

Winona sighed and replaced the photograph. Now they would be a couple of heads clustered with
other heads at a car window; smiling, small-town boys going lightly out to their ordeal. She
must hurry and be over!

       *       *       *       *       *

Wilbur, with his wicker suitcase, paused last to say goodbye to Frank, the dog. Frank was now
a very old dog, having reached a stage of yapping senility, where he found his sole comfort
in following the sun about the house and dozing in it, sometimes noisily dreaming of past adventures.
These had been exclusively of a sentimental character, for Frank had never been the fighting
dog his first owner had promised he would be. He was an arch sentimentalist and had followed
a career of determined motherhood, bringing into the world litter after litter of puppies,
exhibiting all the strains then current in Newbern. He had surveyed each new family with pride--families
revealing tinges of setter, Airedale, Newfoundland, pointer, collie--with the hopeful air of
saying that a dog never knew what he could do until he tried. Now he could only dream of past
conquests, and merely complained when his master roused him.

"I hope you'll be here when I get back--and I hope I'll be here, too," said his master, and
went on, sauntering up to the station a bit later as nonchalantly as ever Dave Cowan himself
had gone there to begin a long journey on the six-fifty-eight. Spike Brennon lounged against
a baggage truck. Spike's only token of departure was a small bundle covered with that day's
Advance. They waited in silence until the dingy way train rattled in. Then Sharon Whipple appeared
from the freight room of the station. He affected to be impatient with the railway company
because of a delayed shipment which he took no trouble to specify definitely, and he affected
to be surprised at the sight of Wilbur and Spike.

"Hello! I thought you two boys went on the noon train," he lied, carelessly. "Well, long as
you're here you might as well take these--in case you get short." He pressed a bill into the
hand of each. "Good-bye and good luck! I had to come down about that shipment should have been
here last Monday--it beats time what these railroads do with stuff nowadays. Five days between
here and Buffalo!"

He continued to grumble as the train moved on, even as the two waved to him from a platform.

"A hundred berries!" breathed Spike, examining his bill. "Say, he sheds it easy, don't he?"

They watched him where he stood facing the train. He seemed to have quit grumbling; his face
was still.

"Well, kid, here we go! Now it's up to the guy what examines us. You'll breeze through--not
a nick in you. Me--well, they're fussy about teeth, I'm told, and, of course, I had to have
a swift poke in the mush that dented my beak. They may try to put the smother on me."

"Cheer up! You'll make the grade," said Wilbur.

Through the night he sat cramped and wakeful in the seat of a crowded day coach, while Spike
beside him slept noisily, perhaps owing to the dented beak. His head back, he looked out and
up to a bow moon that raced madly with the train, and to far, pale stars that were still. He
wondered if any one out there noted the big new adventure down here.

CHAPTER XVII

Wilbur Cowan's fear that his brother might untimely stop the war proved baseless. The war went
on despite the New Dawn's monthly exposure of its motive and sinister aims; despite its masterly
paraphrase of a celebrated document declaring that this Government had been "conceived in chicanery
and dedicated to the industrial slavery of the masses." Not even the new social democracy of
Russia sufficed to inspire any noticeable resistance. The common people of the United States
had refused to follow the example of their brothers of Russia and destroy a tyranny equally
hateful, though the New Dawn again and again set forth the advantages to accrue from such action.
War prevailed.

But the little cluster of intellectuals on the staff of the New Dawn persevered. Monthly it
isolated the causative bacteria of unrest, to set the results before those who could profit
would they but read. Merle, the modernist, at the forefront of what was known as all the new
movements, tirelessly applied the new psychology to the mind of the common man and proved him
a creature of mean submissions. He spoke of "our ranks" and "our brave comrades of Russia,"
but a selective draft had its way and an army went forward.

In Newbern, which Merle frequented between issues of the magazine, he received perhaps less
appreciation than was his due. Sharon Whipple was blindly disparaging. Even Gideon was becoming
less attentive when the modernist expounded the new freedom. Gideon was still puzzled. He quoted,
as to war: "The sign of a mad world. God bless us out of it!" But he was beginning to wonder
if perhaps this newest Whipple had not, with all his education, missed something that other
Whipples had learned.

Harvey D. had once or twice spoken with frank impatience of the New Dawn's gospel. And one
Kate Brophy, cook at the Whipple New Place, said of its apostle that he was "a sahft piece
of furniture." Merle was sensitive to these little winds of captiousness. He was now convinced
that Newbern would never be a cultural centre. There was a spirit of intolerance abroad.

Sharon Whipple, becoming less and less restrained as the months went on, spoke of the staff
of the New Dawn in Merle's hearing. He called it a cage of every unclean and hateful bird.
Merle smiled tolerantly, and called Sharon a besotted reactionary, warning him further that
such as he could never stem the tide of revolution now gathering for its full sweep. Sharon
retorted that it hadn't swept anything yet.

"Perhaps not yet--on the surface," said Merle. "But now we shall show our teeth."

Sharon fell to a low sort of wit in his retort.

"Better not show your teeth to the Government!" he warned. "If you do you want to have the
address of a good dentist handy."

And after another month--when the magazine of light urged resistance to the draft--it became
apparent not only that the New Dawn would not stop the war, but that the war would incredibly
stop the New Dawn. The despoilers of America actually plotted to destroy it, to smother its
message, to adjust new shackles about the limbs of labour.

Sharon Whipple was the first of the privileged class to say that something had got to be done
by the family--unless they wanted to have the police do it. Gideon was the second. These two
despoilers of the people summoned Harvey D. from Washington, and the conspiracy against spiritual
and industrial liberty ripened late one night in the library of the Whipple New Place. It was
agreed that the last number of the New Dawn went pretty far--farther than any Whipple ought
to go. But it was not felt that the time had come for extreme measures. It was believed that
the newest Whipple should merely be reasoned with. To this end they began to reason among themselves,
and were presently wrangling. It developed that Sharon's idea of reasoning lacked subtlety.
It developed that Gideon and Harvey D. reasoned themselves into sheer bewilderment in an effort
to find reasons that would commend themselves to Merle; so that this first meeting of the conspirators
was about to break up fruitlessly, when Sharon Whipple was inspired to a suggestion that repelled
yet pricked the other two until they desperately yielded to it. This was that none other than
Dave Cowan be called into consultation.

"He'll know more about his own son than we do," urged Sharon.

Harvey D.'s feeling of true fatherhood was irritated by this way of putting it, but in the
end he succumbed. He felt that his son was now far removed from the sphere of Dave Cowan, yet
the man might retain some influence over the boy that would be of benefit to all concerned.

"He's in town," said Sharon. "He's a world romper, but he's here now. I heard him to-day in
the post office telling someone how many stars there are in the sky--or something like that."

The following afternoon Dave Cowan, busy at the typesetting machine of the Newbern Advance,
Daily and Weekly, was again begged to meet a few Whipples in the dingy little office of the
First National. The office was unchanged; it had kept through the years since Dave had last
illumined its gloom an air of subdued, moneyed discretion. Nor had the Whipples changed much.
Harvey D. was still neat-faced and careful of attire, still solicitous of many little things.
Gideon, gaunt and dour, was still erect. His hair was white now, but the brows shot their questioning
glance straight. Sharon was as he had been, round-chested, plump; perhaps a trifle readier
to point the ends of the grizzled brows in choleric amaze. The Whipple nose on all three still
jutted forward boldly. It was a nose never to compromise with Time.

Dave Cowan, at first glance, was much the same, even after he had concealed beneath the table
that half of him which was never quite so scrupulously arrayed as the other. But a second glance
revealed that the yellow hair was less abundant. It was now cunningly conserved from ear to
ear, above a forehead that had heightened. The face was thinner, and etched with new lines
about the orator's mouth, but the eyes shone with the same light as of old and the same willingness
to shed its beams through shadowed places such as first national banks. He no longer accepted
the cigar, to preserve in the upper left-hand waist coat pocket with the fountain pen, the
pencil, and the toothbrush. He craved rather permission to fill and light the calabash pipe.
This was a mere bit of form, for he was soon talking so continuously that the pipe was no longer
a going concern.

Delay was occasioned at the beginning of the interview. It proved to be difficult to convey
to Dave exactly why he had been summoned. It appeared that he did not expect a consultation--rather
a lecture by Dave Cowan upon life in its larger aspects. The Whipples, strangely, were all
not a little embarrassed in his presence, and the mere mention of his son caused him to be
informative for ten minutes before any of them dared to confine the flow of his discourse within
narrower banks. He dealt volubly with the doctrines espoused by Merle, whereas they wished
to be told how to deal with Merle. As he talked he consulted from time to time a sheaf of clippings
brought from a pocket.

"A joke," began Dave, "all this socialistic talk. Get this from their platform: They demand
that the country and its wealth be redeemed from the control of private interests and turned
over to the people to be administered for the equal benefit of all. See what they mean? Going
to have a law that a short man can reach as high as a tall man. Good joke, yes? Here again:
'The Socialist Party desires the workers of America to take the economic and political power
from the capitalistic class.' Going to pull themselves off the ground by their boot straps,
yes? Have a law to make the weak strong and the strong weak. Reads good, don't it? And here's
the prize joke--one big union: Socialist Party does not interfere in the internal affairs of
labour unions, but supports them in all their struggles. In order, however, that such struggles
might attain the maximum of efficiency the socialists favour the closest organic cooperation
of all unions as one organized working body.

"Get that? Lovely, ain't it? And when we're all in one big union, who are we going to strike
against? Against ourselves, of course--like we do now. Bricklayers striking against shoemakers
and both striking against carpenters, and all of 'em striking against the honest farmer and
the farmer striking back, because every one of 'em wants all he can get for his labour and
wants to pay as little as he has to for the other fellow's labour. One big union, my eye! Socialists
are jokes. You never saw two of 'em yet that could agree on anything for ten minutes--except
that they want something for nothing."

The speaker paused impressively. His listeners stirred with relief, but the tide of his speech
again washed in upon them.

"They lack," said he, pointing the calabash pipe at Gideon Whipple, sitting patiently across
the table from him, "they lack the third eye of wisdom." He paused again, but only as if to
await applause. There was no intimation that he had done.

"Dear me!" murmured Gideon, politely. The other Whipples made little sounds of amazement and
approval.

"You want to know what the third eye of wisdom is?" continued Dave, as one who had read their
secret thought. "Well, it's the simple gift of being able to look at facts as they are instead
of twisting 'em about as they ain't. The most of us, savages, uneducated people, simples, and
that sort, got this third eye of wisdom without knowing it; we follow the main current without
knowing or asking why. But professors and philosophers and preachers and teachers and all holy
rollers like socialists ain't got it. They want to reduce the whole blamed cosmos to a system,
and she won't reduce. I forget now just how many billion cells in your body"--he pointed the
pipe at Sharon Whipple, who stirred uneasily--"but no matter." Sharon looked relieved.

"Anyway, we fought our way up to be a fish with lungs, and then we fought on till we got legs,
and here we are. And the only way we got here was by competition--some of us always beating
others. Holy rollers like socialists would have us back to one cell and keep us there with
equal rewards for all. But she don't work that way. The pot's still a-boiling, and competition
is the eternal fire under it.

"Look at all these imaginary Utopias they write about--good stories, too, about a man waking
up three thousand years hence and finding everything lovely. But every one of 'em, and I've
read all, picture a society that's froze into some certain condition--static. Nothing is! She
won't freeze! They can spray the fire of competition with speeches all they like, but they
can't put it out. Because why? Well, because this life thing is going on, and competition is
the only way it can get on. Call it Nature if you want to. Nature built star dust out of nothing,
and built us out of star dust, but she ain't through; she's still building. Old Evolution is
still evoluting, and her only tool is competition, the same under the earth and on the earth,
the same out in the sky as in these states.

"Of course there's bound to be flaws and injustice in any scheme of government because of this
same competition you can't get away from any more than the planets can. There's flaws in evolution
itself, only these holy rollers don't see it, because they haven't got the third eye of wisdom;
they can't see that the shoemaker is always going to want all he can get for a pair of shoes
and always going to pay as little as he can for his suit of clothes, socialism or no socialism.

"What would their one big union be? Take these unions that are striking now all over the country.
They think they're striking against something they call capital. Well, they ain't. They're
striking against each other. Railroad men striking against bricklayers, shoemakers striking
against farmers, machinists striking against cabinetmakers, printers striking against all of
'em--and the fools don't know it; think they're striking against some common enemy, when all
the time they're hitting against each other. Oh, she's a grand bit of cunning, this Old Evolution."

"This is all very interesting, Mr. Cowan"--Harvey D. had become uneasy in his chair, and had
twice risen to put straight a photograph of the Whipple block that hung on the opposite wall--"but
what we would like to get at--"

"I know, I know"--Dave silenced him with a wave of the calabash--"you want to know what it's
all about--what it's coming to, what we're here for. Well, I can tell you a little. There used
to be a catch in it that bothered me, but I figured her out. Old Evolution is producing an
organism that will find the right balance and perpetuate itself eternally. It's trying every
way it knows to get these cells of protoplasm into some form that will change without dying.
Simple enough, only it takes time. Think how long it took to get us this far out of something
you can't see without glasses! But forget about time. Our time don't mean anything out there
in the real world. Say we been produced in one second from nothing; well, think what we'll
become in another ten seconds. We'll have our balance by that time. This protoplasm does what
it's told to do--that's how it made eyes for us to see, and ears to hear, and brains to think
with--so by that time we'll be really living; we'll have a form that's plastic, and can change
round to meet any change of environment, so we won't have to die if it gets too cold or too
hot. We want to live--we all want to live; by that time we'll be able to go on living.

"Of course we won't be looking much like we are now, we're pretty clumsy machines so far. I
suppose, for one thing, we'll be getting our nourishment straight from the elements instead
of taking it through plants and animals. We'll be as superior to what we are now as he is to
a hoptoad." The speaker indicated Sharon Whipple with the calabash. Sharon wriggled self-consciously.
"And pretty soon people will forget that any one ever died; they won't believe it when they
read it in old books; they won't understand it. This time is coming, as near as I can figure
it, in seven hundred and fifty thousand years. That is, in round numbers, it might be an odd
hundred thousand years more or less. Of course I can't be precise in such a matter."

"Of course not," murmured Harvey D., sympathetically; "but what we were wanting to get at--"

"Of course," resumed the lecturer, "I know there's still a catch in it. You say, 'What does
it mean after that?' Well, I'll be honest with you, I haven't been able to figure it out much
farther. We'll go on and on till this earth dries up, and then we'll move to another, or build
one--I can't tell which--and all the time we're moving round something, but I don't know what
or why. I only know it's been going on forever--this life thing--and we're a little speck in
the current, and it will keep going on forever.

"But you can bet this: It will always go on by competition. There won't ever be any Utopia,
like these holy rollers can lay out for you in five minutes. I been watching union labour long
enough to know that. But she's a grand scheme. I'm glad I got this little look at it. I wouldn't
change it in any detail, not if you come to me with full power. I couldn't think of any better
way than competition, not if I took a life-time to it. It's a sporty proposition."

The speaker beamed modestly upon his hearers. Gideon was quick to clutch the moment's pause.

"What about this boy Merle?" he demanded before Dave could resume.

"Oh, him?" said Dave. "Him and his holy rolling? Is that all you want to know? Why didn't you
say so? That's easy! You've raised him to be a house cat. So shut off his cream."

"A house cat!" echoed Harvey D., shocked.

"No education," resumed Dave. "No savvy about the world. Set him down in Spokane with three
dollars in his jeans and needing to go to Atlanta. Would he know how? Would he know a simple
thing like how to get there and ride all the way in varnished cars?"

"Is it possible?" murmured Harvey D.

The Whipples had been dazed by the cosmic torrent, but here was something specific;--and it
was astounding. They regarded the speaker with awe. They wanted to be told how one could perform
the feat, but dreaded to incur a too-wordy exposition.

"Not practical enough, I dare say," ventured Harvey D.

"You said it!" replied Dave. "That's why he's took this scarlet rash of socialism and holy
rolling that's going the rounds. Of course there are plenty that are holy rollers through and
through, but not this boy. It's only a skin disease with him. I know him. Shut off his cream."

"I said the same!" declared Sharon Whipple, feeling firm ground beneath his feet for the first
time.

"You said right!" approved Dave. "It would be a shock to him," said Harvey D. "He's bound up
in the magazine. What would he say? What would he do?"

"Something pretty," explained Dave. "Something pretty and high-sounding. Like as not he'd cast
you off."

"Cast me off!" Harvey D. was startled.

"Tell you you are no longer a father of his. Don't I know that boy? He'll half mean it, too,
but only half. The other half will be showing off--showing off to himself and to you people.
He likes to be noticed."

Sharon Whipple now spoke.

"I always said he wouldn't be a socialist if he couldn't be a millionaire socialist."

"You got him!" declared Dave.

"I shall hate to adopt extreme measures," protested Harvey D. "He's always been so sensitive.
But we must consider his welfare. In a time like this he might be sent to prison for things
printed in that magazine."

"Trust him!" said Dave. "He wouldn't like it in prison. He might get close enough to it to
be photographed with the cell door back of him--but not in front of him."

"He'll tell us we're suppressing free speech," said Harvey D.

"Well, you will be, won't you?" said Dave. "We ain't so fussy about free speech here as they
are in that free Russia that he writes about, but we're beginning to take notice. Naturally
it's a poor time for free speech when the Government's got a boil on the back of its neck and
is feeling irritable. Besides, no one ever did believe in free speech, and no government on
earth ever allowed it. Free speakers have always had to use judgment. Up to now we've let 'em
be free-speakinger than any other country has, but now they better watch out until the boat
quits rocking. They attack the machinery and try to take it apart, and then cry when they're
smacked. Maybe they might get this boy the other side of a cell door. Wouldn't hurt him any."

"Of course," protested Harvey D., "we can hardly expect you to have a father's feeling for him."

"Well, I have!" retorted Dave. "I got just as much father's feeling for him as you have. But
you people are small-towners, and I been about in the world. I know the times and I know that
boy. I'm telling you what's best for him. No more cream! If it had been that other boy of mine
you took, and he was believing what this one thinks he believes, I'd be telling you something
different."

"Always said he had the gumption," declared Sharon Whipple.

"He's got the third eye," said Dave Cowan.

"We want to thank you for this talk," interposed Gideon Whipple. "Much of what you have said
is very, very interesting. I think my son will now know what course to pursue."

"Don't mention it!" said Dave, graciously. "Always glad to oblige."

The consultation seemed about to end, but even at the door of the little room Dave paused to
acquaint them with other interesting facts about life. He informed them that we are all brothers
of the earth, being composed of carbon and a few other elements, and grow from it as do the
trees; that we are but super-vegetables. He further instructed them as to the constitution
of a balanced diet--protein for building, starches or sugar for energy, and fats for heating
and also for their vitamine content.

The Whipples, it is to be feared, were now inattentive. They appeared to listen, but they were
merely surveying with acute interest the now revealed lower half of Dave Cowan. The trousers
were frayed, the shoes were but wraiths of shoes. The speaker, quite unconscious of this scrutiny,
concluded by returning briefly to the problems of human association.

"We'll have socialism when every man is like every other man. So far Nature hasn't made even
two alike. Anyway, most of us got the third eye of wisdom too wide open to take any stock in
it. We may like it when we read it in a book, but we wouldn't submit to it. We're too inquiring.
If a god leaned out of a cloud of fire and spoke to us to-day we'd put the spectroscope on
his cloud, get a moving picture of him, and take his voice on a phonograph record; and we wouldn't
believe him if he talked against experience."

Dave surveyed the obscure small-towners with a last tolerant smile and withdrew.

"My!" said Gideon, which for him was strong speech.

"Talks like an atheist," said Sharon.

"Mustn't judge him harshly," warned Harvey D.

       *       *       *       *       *

So it came that Merle Dalton Whipple, born Cowan, was rather peremptorily summoned to meet
these older Whipples at another conference. It was politely termed a conference by Harvey D.,
though Sharon warmly urged a simpler description of the meeting, declaring that Merle should
be told he was to come home and behave himself. Harvey D. and Gideon, however, agreed upon
the more tactful summons. They discussed, indeed, the propriety of admitting Sharon to the
conference. Each felt that he might heedlessly offend the young intellectual by putting things
with a bluntness for which he had often been conspicuous. Yet they agreed at last that he might
be present, for each secretly distrusted his own firmness in the presence of one with so strong
an appeal as their boy. They admonished Sharon to be gentle. But each hoped that if the need
rose he would cease to be gentle.

Merle obeyed the call, and in the library of the Whipple New Place, where once he had been
chosen to bear the name of the house, he listened with shocked amazement while Harvey D., with
much worried straightening of pictures, rugs, and chairs, told him why Whipple money could
no longer meet the monthly deficit of the New Dawn. The most cogent reason that Harvey D. could
advance at first was that there were too many Liberty Bonds to be bought.

Merle, with his world-weary gesture, swept the impeding lock from his pale brow and set pained
eyes upon his father by adoption. He was unable to believe this monstrous assertion. He stared
his incredulity. Harvey D. winced. He felt that he had struck some defenseless child a cruel
blow. Gideon shot the second gun in this unhuman warfare.

"My boy, it won't do. Harvey is glossing it a bit when he says the money is needed for bonds.
You deserve the truth--we are not going to finance any longer a magazine that is against all
our traditions and all our sincerest beliefs."

"Ah, I see," said Merle. His tone was grim. Then he broke into a dry, bitter laugh. "The interests
prevail!"

"Looks like it," said Sharon, and he, too, laughed dryly.

"If you would only try to get our point of view," broke in Harvey D. "We feel--"

He was superbly silenced by Merle, who in his best New Dawn manner exposed the real truth.
The dollar trembled on its throne, the fat bourgeoisie--he spared a withering glance for Sharon,
who was the only fat Whipple in the world--would resort to brutal force to silence those who
saw the truth and were brave enough to speak it out.

"It's the age-old story," he went on, again sweeping the lock of hair from before his flashing
glance. "Privilege throttles truth where it can. I should have expected nothing else; I have
long known there was no soil here that would nourish our ideals. I couldn't long hope for sympathy
from mere exploiters of labour. But the die is cast. God helping me, I must follow the light."

The last was purely rhetorical, for no one on the staff of the New Dawn believed that God helped
any one. Indeed, it was rather felt that God was on the side of privilege. But the speaker
glowed as he achieved his period.

"If you would only try to get our point of view," again suggested Harvey D., as he straightened
the Reading From Homer.

"I cannot turn aside."

"Meaning?" inquired Sharon Whipple.

"Meaning that we cannot accept another dollar of tainted money for our great work," said Merle,
crisply.

"Oh," said Sharon, "but that's what your pa just told you! You accepted it till he shut off
on you."

"Against my better judgment and with many misgivings," returned the apostle of light. "Now
we can go to the bitter end with no false sense of obligation."

"But your magazine will have to stop, I fear," interposed Gideon gently.

Merle smiled wanly, shaking his head the while as one who contradicts from superior knowledge.

"You little know us," he retorted when the full effect of the silent, head-shaking smile had
been had. "The people are at last roused. Money will pour in upon us. Money is the last detail
we need think of. Our movement is solidly grounded. We have at our back"--he glanced defiantly
at each of the three Whipples--"an awakened proletariat."

"My!" said Gideon.

"You are out of the current here," explained Merle, kindly. "You don't suspect how close we
are to revolution. Yet that glorious rising of our comrades in Russia might have warned you.
But your class, of course, never is warned."

"Dear me!" broke in Harvey D. "You don't mean to say that conditions are as bad here as they
were in Russia?"

"Worse--a thousand times worse," replied Merle. "We have here an autocracy more hateful, more
hideous in its injustices, than ever the Romanoffs dreamed of. And how much longer do you think
these serfs of ours will suffer it? I tell you they are roused this instant! They await only
a word!"

"Are you going to speak it?" demanded Sharon.

"Now, now!" soothed Harvey D. as Merle turned heatedly upon Sharon, who thus escaped blasting.

"I am not here to be baited," protested Merle. 

There is in my nature, methinks, a singular yearning toward all wildness.

I know of no redeeming qualities in myself but a sincere love for
some things, and when I am reproved I fall back on to this ground.

What have I to do with ploughs? I cut another furrow than you see. Where the off ox treads, there
is it not, it is farther off; where the nigh ox walks, it will not be, it is nigher still. If corn
fails, my crop fails not, and what are drought and rain to me?

The rude Saxon pioneer will sometimes pine for that refinement and
artificial beauty which are English, and love to hear the sound of
such sweet and classical names as the Pentland and Malvern Hills,
the Cliffs of Dover and the Trosachs, Richmond, Derwent, and Winandermere,
which are to him now instead of the Acropolis and Parthenon, of Baiae,
and Athens with its sea-walls, and Arcadia and Tempe.

Greece, who am I that should remember thee, Thy Marathon and thy Thermopylae? Is my life vulgar,
my fate mean, Which on these golden memories can lean?

We are apt enough to be pleased with such books as Evelyn's Sylva,
Acetarium, and Kalendarium Hortense, but they imply a relaxed nerve
in the reader.

Gardening is civil and social, but it wants the vigor and freedom
of the forest and the outlaw.

There may be an excess of cultivation as well as of anything else,
until civilization becomes pathetic.

A highly cultivated man,-- all whose bones can be bent! whose heaven-born
virtues are but good manners!

The young pines springing up in the cornfields from year to year are to me a refreshing fact.
We talk of civilizing the Indian, but that is not the name for his improvement. By the wary independence
and aloofness of his dim forest life he preserves his intercourse
with his native gods, and is admitted from time to time to a rare
and peculiar society with Nature.

He has glances of starry recognition to which our saloons are strangers.

The steady illumination of his genius, dim only because distant, is like the faint but satisfying
light of the stars compared with the dazzling but ineffectual and
short-lived blaze of candles.

       The Society-Islanders had their day-born gods, but they were not
supposed to be "of equal antiquity with the atua fauau po, or night-born
gods."

It is true, there are the innocent pleasures of country life, and it is sometimes pleasant
to make the earth yield her increase, and gather the fruits in their season, but the heroic spirit
will not fail to dream of remoter retirements and more rugged paths. It will have its garden-plots
and its parterres elsewhere than on the earth, and gather nuts and
berries by the way for its subsistence, or orchard fruits with such
heedlessness as berries.

We would not always be soothing and taming nature, breaking the horse and the ox, but sometimes
ride the horse wild and chase the buffalo.

The Indian's intercourse with Nature is at least such as admits of
the greatest independence of each.

If he is somewhat of a stranger in her midst, the gardener is too much of a familiar. There is
something vulgar and foul in the latter's closeness to his mistress, something noble and cleanly
in the former's distance.

In civilization, as in a southern latitude, man degenerates at length,
and yields to the incursion of more northern tribes, "Some nation
yet shut in With hills of ice."

There are other,
savager, and more primeval aspects of nature than our poets have
sung.

It is only white man's poetry. Homer and Ossian even can never revive
in London or Boston.

And yet behold how these cities are refreshed by the mere tradition,
or the imperfectly transmitted fragrance and flavor of these wild
fruits.

If we could listen but for an instant to the chant of the Indian
muse, we should understand why he will not exchange his savageness
for civilization.

Nations are not whimsical. Steel and blankets are strong temptations;
but the Indian does well to continue Indian. These modern ingenious
sciences and arts do not affect me as those more venerable arts of
hunting and fishing, and even of husbandry in its primitive and simple
form; as ancient and honorable trades as the sun and moon and winds
pursue, coeval with the faculties of man, and invented when these
were invented.

We do not know their John Gutenberg, or Richard Arkwright, though
the poets would fain make them to have been gradually learned and
taught.

According to Gower,-- "And Iadahel, as saith the boke, Firste made nette, and fishes toke. Of huntyng eke
he fond the chace, Whiche nowe is knowe in many place; A tent of
clothe, with corde and stake, He sette up first, and did it make."

Also, Lydgate says:-- "Jason first sayled, in story it is tolde, Toward
Colchos, to wynne the flees of golde, Ceres the Goddess fond first
the tilthe of londe;***** Also, Aristeus fonde first the usage Of
mylke, and cruddis, and of honey swote; Peryodes, for grete avauntage,
From flyntes smote fuyre, daryng in the roote."

We read that Aristeus "obtained of Jupiter and Neptune, that the pestilential heat of the dog-days,
wherein was great mortality, should be mitigated with wind."

This is one of those dateless benefits conferred on man, which have no record in our vulgar
day, though we still find some similitude to them in our dreams, in which we have a more liberal
and juster apprehension of things, unconstrained by habit, which
is then in some measure put off, and divested of memory, which we
call history.

According to fable, when the island of AEgina was depopulated by
sickness, at the instance of AEacus, Jupiter turned the ants into
men, that is, as some think, he made men of the inhabitants who lived
meanly like ants.

This is perhaps the fullest history of those early days extant. The
fable which is naturally and truly composed, so as to satisfy the imagination,
ere it addresses the understanding, beautiful though strange as a wild-flower,
is to the wise man an apothegm, and admits of his most generous interpretation.
When we read that Bacchus made the Tyrrhenian mariners mad, so that
they leapt into the sea, mistaking it for a meadow full of flowers,
and so became dolphins, we are not concerned about the historical
truth of this, but rather a higher poetical truth.

We seem to hear the music of a thought, and care not if the understanding be
not gratified. For their beauty, consider the fables of Narcissus, of
Endymion, of Memnon son of Morning, the representative of all promising
youths who have died a premature death, and whose memory is melodiously
prolonged to the latest morning; the beautiful stories of Phaeton,
and of the Sirens whose isle shone afar off white with the bones of
unburied men; and the pregnant ones of Pan, Prometheus, and the Sphinx;
and that long list of names which have already become part of the
universal language of civilized men, and from proper are becoming
common names or nouns,-- the Sibyls, the Eumenides, the Parcae, the
Graces, the Muses, Nemesis,& c. It is interesting to observe with
what singular unanimity the farthest sundered nations and generations
consent to give completeness and roundness to an ancient fable, of
which they indistinctly appreciate the beauty or the truth.

By a faint and dream-like effort, though it be only by the vote of
a scientific body, the dullest posterity slowly add some trait to
the mythus. As when astronomers call the lately discovered planet
Neptune; or the asteroid Astraea, that the Virgin who was driven from
earth to heaven at the end of the golden age, may have her local
habitation in the heavens more distinctly assigned her,-- for the
slightest recognition of poetic worth is significant.

By such slow aggregation has mythology grown from the first. The very nursery
tales of this generation, were the nursery tales of primeval races.
They migrate from east to west, and again from west to east; now expanded
into the "tale divine" of bards, now shrunk into a popular rhyme.

       This is an approach to that universal language which men have sought
in vain.

This fond reiteration of the oldest expressions of truth by the latest
posterity, content with slightly and religiously retouching the old material,
is the most impressive proof of a common humanity. All nations love
the same jests and tales, Jews, Christians, and Mahometans, and the
same translated suffice for all.

All men are children, and of one family. The same tale sends them all
to bed, and wakes them in the morning. Joseph Wolff, the missionary,
distributed copies of Robinson Crusoe, translated into Arabic, among
the Arabs, and they made a great sensation.

"Robinson Crusoe's adventures and wisdom," says he, "were read by Mahometans in the market-places
of Sanaa, Hodyeda, and Loheya, and admired and believed!" On reading the book, the Arabians exclaimed,
"O, that Robinson Crusoe must have been a great prophet!" To some extent, mythology is only
the most ancient history and biography. So far from being false or fabulous in the common sense,
it contains only enduring and essential truth, the I and you, the here and there, the now and
then, being omitted. Either time or rare wisdom writes it. Before
printing was discovered, a century was equal to a thousand years. The
poet is he who can write some pure mythology to-day without the aid of posterity.
In how few words, for instance, the Greeks would have told the story
of Abelard and Heloise, making but a sentence for our classical dictionary,--
and then, perchance, have stuck up their names to shine in some corner
of the firmament.

We moderns, on the
other hand, collect only the raw materials of biography and history,
"memoirs to serve for a history," which itself is but materials to serve
for a mythology.

How many volumes folio would the Life and Labors of Prometheus have filled, if perchance it had fallen,
as perchance it did first, in days of cheap printing! Who knows what shape the fable of Columbus
will at length assume, to be confounded with that of Jason and the
expedition of the Argonauts. And Franklin,-- there may be a line for
him in the future classical dictionary, recording what that demigod did,
and referring him to some new genealogy. "Son of---- and----.

He aided the Americans to gain their independence, instructed mankind
in economy, and drew down lightning from the clouds."

The hidden significance of these fables which is sometimes thought
to have been detected, the ethics running parallel to the poetry
and history, are not so remarkable as the readiness with which they
may be made to express a variety of truths.

As if they were the skeletons of still older and more universal truths than any whose flesh and
blood they are for the time made to wear. It is like striving to make the sun, or the wind,
or the sea symbols to signify exclusively the particular thoughts
of our day.

But what signifies it? In the mythus a superhuman intelligence uses the
unconscious thoughts and dreams of men as its hieroglyphics to address
men unborn.

In the history of the human mind, these glowing and ruddy fables precede the
noonday thoughts of men, as Aurora the sun's rays.

The matutine intellect of the poet, keeping in advance of the glare
of philosophy, always dwells in this auroral atmosphere.

As we said before, the Concord is a dead stream, but its scenery is
the more suggestive to the contemplative voyager, and this day its
water was fuller of reflections than our pages even.

Just before it reaches the falls in Billerica, it is contracted,
and becomes swifter and shallower, with a yellow pebbly bottom, hardly
passable for a canal-boat, leaving the broader and more stagnant
portion above like a lake among the hills.

All through the Concord, Bedford, and Billerica meadows we had heard
no murmur from its stream, except where some tributary runnel tumbled
in,-- Some tumultuous little rill, Purling round its storied pebble,
Tinkling to the selfsame tune, From September until June, Which no
drought doth e'er enfeeble.

Silent flows the parent stream, And if rocks do lie below, Smothers
with her waves the din, As it were a youthful sin, Just as still,
and just as slow.

But now at length we heard this staid and primitive river rushing to her fall, like any rill. We
here left its channel, just above the Billerica Falls, and entered the canal, which runs,
or rather is conducted, six miles through the woods to the Merrimack,
at Middlesex, and as we did not care to loiter in this part of our
voyage, while one ran along the tow-path drawing the boat by a cord,
the other kept it off the shore with a pole, so that we accomplished
the whole distance in little more than an hour.

This canal, which is the oldest in the country, and has even an antique
look beside the more modern railroads, is fed by the Concord, so
that we were still floating on its familiar waters.

It is so much water which the river lets for the advantage of commerce. There appeared some
want of harmony in its scenery, since it was not of equal date with the woods
and meadows through which it is led, and we missed the conciliatory
influence of time on land and water; but in the lapse of ages, Nature
will recover and indemnify herself, and gradually plant fit shrubs
and flowers along its borders.

Already the kingfisher sat upon a pine over the water, and the bream
and pickerel swam below. Thus all works pass directly out of the hands
of the architect into the hands of Nature, to be perfected.

It was a retired and pleasant route, without houses or travellers,
except some young men who were lounging upon a bridge in Chelmsford,
who leaned impudently over the rails to pry into our concerns, but
we caught the eye of the most forward, and looked at him till he was
visibly discomfited.

Not that there was any peculiar efficacy in our look, but rather
a sense of shame left in him which disarmed him.

It is a very true and expressive phrase, "He looked daggers at me,"
for the first pattern and prototype of all daggers must have been
a glance of the eye.

First, there was the glance of Jove's eye, then his fiery bolt, then, the material gradually
hardening, tridents, spears, javelins, and finally, for the convenience
of private men, daggers, krisses, and so forth, were invented.

It is wonderful how we get about the streets without being wounded by these delicate and glancing
weapons, a man can so nimbly whip out his rapier, or without being noticed carry it unsheathed.
Yet it is rare that one gets seriously looked at. As we passed under the last bridge over the
canal, just before reaching the Merrimack, the people coming out of church paused to look
at us from above, and apparently, so strong is custom, indulged in
some heathenish comparisons; but we were the truest observers of this
sunny day.

According to Hesiod, "The seventh is a holy day, For then Latona brought
forth golden-rayed Apollo," and by our reckoning this was the seventh
day of the week, and not the first.

I find among the papers of an old Justice of the Peace and Deacon of the town of Concord, this singular
memorandum, which is worth preserving as a relic of an ancient custom. After reforming the
spelling and grammar, it runs as follows: "Men that travelled with teams on the Sabbath, Dec. 18th,
1803, were Jeremiah Richardson and Jonas Parker, both of Shirley. They had teams with rigging such
as is used to carry barrels, and they were travelling westward.

Richardson was questioned by the Hon. Ephraim Wood, Esq., and he said that Jonas Parker was his fellow-traveller,
and he further said that a Mr. Longley was his employer, who promised to bear him out." We
were the men that were gliding northward, this Sept. 1st, 1839, with still team, and rigging not
the most convenient to carry barrels, unquestioned by any Squire or Church Deacon and ready to
bear ourselves out if need were. In the latter part of the seventeenth century, according to the historian
of Dunstable, "Towns were directed to erect'a cage'near the meeting-house,
and in this all offenders against the sanctity of the Sabbath were
confined."

Society has relaxed a little from its strictness, one would say, but I
presume that there is not less religion than formerly. If the ligature
is found to be loosened in one part, it is only drawn the tighter
in another.

You can hardly convince a man of an error in a lifetime, but must content
yourself with the reflection that the progress of science is slow.
If he is not convinced, his grandchildren may be.

The geologists tell us that it took one hundred years to prove that fossils are organic, and
one hundred and fifty more, to prove that they are not to be referred to the Noachian deluge.
I am not sure but I should betake myself in extremities to the liberal divinities of Greece,
rather than to my country's God. Jehovah, though with us he has acquired new attributes, is
more absolute and unapproachable, but hardly more divine, than Jove. He is not so much of a
gentleman, not so gracious and catholic, he does not exert so intimate
and genial an influence on nature, as many a god of the Greeks.

I should fear the infinite power and inflexible justice of the almighty mortal, hardly as yet
apotheosized, so wholly masculine, with no Sister Juno, no Apollo, no Venus, nor Minerva, to intercede
for me,< thumo* i phyle'ousa'te, kedome'ne te>. The Grecian are youthful and erring and fallen
gods, with the vices of men, but in many important respects essentially of the divine race. In my
Pantheon, Pan still reigns in his pristine glory, with his ruddy face, his flowing beard, and his shaggy
body, his pipe and his crook, his nymph Echo, and his chosen daughter Iambe; for the great god
Pan is not dead, as was rumored. No god ever dies. Perhaps of all the gods of New England and
of ancient Greece, I am most constant at his shrine. It seems to me that the god that is commonly
worshipped in civilized countries is not at all divine, though he
bears a divine name, but is the overwhelming authority and respectability
of mankind combined.

Men reverence one another, not yet God. If I thought that I could speak with discrimination and impartiality
of the nations of Christendom, I should praise them, but it tasks me too much. They seem to be the most
civil and humane, but I may be mistaken. Every people have gods to
suit their circumstances; the Society Islanders had a god called
Toahitu, "in shape like a dog; he saved such as were in danger of
falling from rocks and trees."

I think that we can do without him, as we have not much climbing to do. Among them a man could make
himself a god out of a piece of wood in a few minutes, which would
frighten him out of his wits.

I fancy that some indefatigable spinster of the old school, who had
the supreme felicity to be born in "days that tried men's souls,"
hearing this, may say with Nestor, another of the old school, "But
you are younger than I. For time was when I conversed with greater
men than you.

For not at any time have I seen such men, nor shall see them, as Perithous, and Dryas, and<
poimena laon>," that is probably Washington, sole "Shepherd of the People." And when Apollo has
now six times rolled westward, or seemed to roll, and now for the seventh time shows his face
in the east, eyes wellnigh glazed, long glassed, which have fluctuated
only between lamb's wool and worsted, explore ceaselessly some good
sermon book.

       For six days shalt thou labor and do all thy knitting, but on the
seventh, forsooth, thy reading.

Happy we who can bask in this warm September sun, which illumines all creatures, as well when they
rest as when they toil, not without a feeling of gratitude; whose life is as blameless, how blameworthy
soever it may be, on the Lord's Mona-day as on his Suna-day. There
are various, nay, incredible faiths; why should we be alarmed at
any of them?

What man believes, God believes.

Long as I have lived, and many blasphemers as I have heard and seen, I
have never yet heard or witnessed any direct and conscious blasphemy
or irreverence; but of indirect and habitual, enough.

Where is the man who is guilty of direct and personal insolence
to Him that made him?

One memorable addition to the old mythology is due to this era,-- the Christian fable. With what pains,
and tears, and blood these centuries have woven this and added it to the mythology of mankind. The
new Prometheus. With what miraculous consent, and patience, and persistency has this mythus
been stamped on the memory of the race! It would seem as if it were in the progress of our mythology
to dethrone Jehovah, and crown Christ in his stead.

If it is not a tragical life we live, then I know not what to call it. Such a story as that
of Jesus Christ,-- the history of Jerusalem, say, being a part of
the Universal History.

The naked, the embalmed, unburied death of Jerusalem amid its desolate
hills,-- think of it. In Tasso's poem I trust some things are sweetly
buried. Consider the snappish tenacity with which they preach Christianity
still.

What are time and space to Christianity, eighteen hundred years, and a new world?-- that the humble
life of a Jewish peasant should have force to make a New York bishop
so bigoted.

Forty-four lamps, the gift of kings, now burning in a place called the Holy Sepulchre;-- a church-bell
ringing;-- some unaffected tears shed by a pilgrim on Mount Calvary
within the week.-- "Jerusalem, Jerusalem, when I forget thee, may
my right hand forget her cunning."

"By the waters of Babylon there we sat down, and we wept when we remembered Zion." I trust
that some may be as near and dear to Buddha, or Christ, or Swedenborg, who are without the
pale of their churches. It is necessary not to be Christian to appreciate the beauty and significance
of the life of Christ. I know that some will have hard thoughts of me, when they hear their Christ
named beside my Buddha, yet I am sure that I am willing they should love their Christ more than my
Buddha, for the love is the main thing, and I like him too. "God is the letter Ku, as well as Khu."
Why need Christians be still intolerant and superstitious?

The simple-minded sailors were unwilling to cast overboard Jonah at his own request.-- "Where
is this love become in later age? Alas!'tis gone in endless pilgrimage From hence, and never to return,
I doubt, Till revolution wheel those times about." One man says,-- "The world's a popular disease,
that reigns Within the froward heart and frantic brains Of poor distempered
mortals."

Facing the square was a small stone church that had been mistreated. Its front was barred by
tumbled masonry, but a well-placed shell had widely breached its side wall. Through this timbered
opening could be seen rows of cots hovered over by nurses or white-clad surgeons. Their forms
flashed with a subdued radiance far back in the shaded interior. Litter bearers came and went.

From the opening now issued a red-faced private, bulky with fat. One of his eyes was hidden
from the public by a bandage, but the other surveyed the milling traffic with a humorous tolerance.
Though propelling himself with crutches, he had contrived to issue from the place with an air
of careless sauntering. Tenderly he eased his bulk to a flat stone, aforetime set in the church's
façade, and dropped a crutch at either side. He now readjusted his hat, for the bandage going
up over his shock of reddish hair had affected its fit. Next he placed an inquiring but entirely
respectful palm over the bandaged eye.

"Never was such a hell of a good eye, anyhow," he observed, and winked the unhidden eye in
testimony of his wit. And yet brave fellows, and presume of fame, And seem to bear down all the
world with looks.

"The ready writer seizes the pen, and shouts, Forward! Alamo and Fanning!
and after rolls the tide of war. The very walls and fences seem to
travel. "First chance I had to get a good look at the war, what with one
thing and another," he amiably explained to a sergeant of infantry who was passing.

Neither of his sallies evoked a response, but he was not rebuffed. He wished to engage in badinage,
but he was one who could entertain himself if need be. He looked about for other diversion.

To the opening in the church wall came a nurse. She walked with short, uncertain steps and
leaned against the ragged edge of the wall, with one arm along its stone for support. Her face
was white and drawn, and for a moment she closed her eyes and breathed deeply of the dust-laden
air. The fat private on the stone, a score of feet away, studied her approvingly. She was slight
of form and her hair beneath the cap was of gold, a little tarnished. He waited for her eyes
to open, then hailed her genially as he waved at a tangle of camions and ambulances now blocking
the bridge.

"Worse'n fair week back home on Main Street, hey, sister?"

But she did not hear him, for a battered young second lieutenant with one arm in a sling had
joined her from the dusk of the church.

"Done up, nurse?" he demanded.

"Only for a second. We just finished something pretty fierce."

She pointed back of her, but without looking.

"Why not sit down on that stone?"

He indicated a fallen slab at her feet. She looked at it with frank longing, but smiled a refusal.

"Dassent," she said. "I'd be asleep in no time."

"Cheer up! We'll soon finish this man's job."

The girl looked at him with eyes already freshened.

"No, it won't ever be finished. It's going on forever. Nothing but war and that inside."

Again she pointed back without turning her head.

"Another jam!"

The second lieutenant waved toward the makeshift bridge. The girl watched the muddle of wheeled
things and stiffened with indignation.

"That's why it'll last so long," she said. "Because these officers of ours can't learn anything.
Look at that muddle--while men are dying on beyond. You'd think they were a lot of schoolboys.
Haven't they been told to keep one road for their up traffic and another road for their down
traffic? But they wouldn't do it, because it was the British who told 'em. But the British
had found out, hadn't they? Catch them having a senseless mix-up like that! But our men won't
listen. They won't even listen to me. I've told one general and six or seven colonels only
this morning. Told the general to keep certain roads for troops and wagons going to the front,
and other roads of traffic coming back to camps and depots, and all he could say was that he
hoped to God there wouldn't be another war until the women could staff it."

"Hooray, hooray!" squeaked the listening private in a subdued falsetto not meant to be overheard.

Then he turned to stare up the street of broken shop fronts. One of these diverted his attention
from the nurse. Above its door protruded a bush, its leaves long since withered. He knew this
for the sign of a wine shop, and with much effort regained his feet to hobble toward it. He
went far enough to note that the bush broke its promise of refreshment, for back of it was
but dry desolation.

"Napoo!" he murmured in his best French, and turned to measure the distance back to his stone
seat. To this he again sauntered carelessly, as a gentleman walking abroad over his estate.

The second lieutenant was leaving the nurse by the extemporized portal of the church, though
she seemed not to have done with exposing the incompetence of certain staff officers. She still
leaned wearily against the wall, vocal with irritation.

"Bawl 'em out, sister! I think anything you think," called the private.

Then from his stone seat he turned to survey the double line of marching men that issued from
the street into the square. They came now to a shuffling halt at a word of command relayed
from some place beyond the bridge, where a new jumble of traffic could be dimly discerned.
The lines fell apart and the men sank to earth in the shade of the broken buildings across
the square. The private waved them a careless hand, with the mild interest of one who has been
permanently dissevered from their activities. 

Will no god be kind enough to spread a salve of birches over its sores? Here too we noticed where
the Indians had gathered a heap of stones, perhaps for their council-fire, which, by their weight
having prevented the sand under them from blowing away, were left on the summit of a mound. They
told us that arrow-heads, and also bullets of lead and iron, had
been found here.

We noticed several other sandy tracts in our voyage; and the course of the Merrimack can be traced
from the nearest mountain by its yellow sandbanks, though the river itself is for the most
part invisible. Lawsuits, as we hear, have in some cases grown out of these causes. Railroads
have been made through certain irritable districts, breaking their sod, and so have set the
sand to blowing, till it has converted fertile farms into deserts, and the company has had
to pay the damages.

This sand seemed to us the connecting link between land and water.

It was a kind of water on which you could walk, and you could see the ripple-marks on its surface,
produced by the winds, precisely like those at the bottom of a brook or lake. We had read
that Mussulmen are permitted by the Koran to perform their ablutions in sand when they cannot get
water, a necessary indulgence in Arabia, and we now understood the
propriety of this provision.

Plum
Island, at the mouth of this river, to whose formation, perhaps, these very banks have sent
their contribution, is a similar desert of drifting sand, of various colors, blown into graceful
curves by the wind. It is a mere sand-bar exposed, stretching nine miles parallel to the coast,
and, exclusive of the marsh on the inside, rarely more than half a mile wide. There are but
half a dozen houses on it, and it is almost without a tree, or a
sod, or any green thing with which a countryman is familiar.

The thin vegetation stands half buried in sand, as in drifting snow. The only shrub, the beach-plum,
which gives the island its name, grows but a few feet high; but this is so abundant that parties
of a hundred at once come from the main-land and down the Merrimack, in September, pitch their tents,
and gather the plums, which are good to eat raw and to preserve. The graceful and delicate
beach-pea, too, grows abundantly amid the sand, and several strange, moss-like and succulent
plants.

The island for its whole length is scalloped into low hills, not more than twenty feet high, by
the wind, and, excepting a faint trail on the edge of the marsh, is as trackless as Sahara.
There are dreary bluffs of sand and valleys ploughed by the wind,
where you might expect to discover the bones of a caravan.

Schooners come from Boston to load with the sand for masons'uses, and in a few hours the
wind obliterates all traces of their work. Yet you have only to dig a foot or two anywhere to
come to fresh water; and you are surprised to learn that woodchucks
abound here, and foxes are found, though you see not where they can
burrow or hide themselves.

I have walked down the whole length of its broad beach at low tide, at which time alone you
can find a firm ground to walk on, and probably Massachusetts does
not furnish a more grand and dreary walk.

On the seaside there are only a distant sail and a few coots to break the grand monotony. A
solitary stake stuck up, or a sharper sand-hill than usual, is remarkable as a landmark for miles;
while for music you hear only the ceaseless sound of the surf, and
the dreary peep of the beach-birds.

There were several canal-boats at Cromwell's Falls passing through the locks, for which we
waited. In the forward part of one stood a brawny New Hampshire man, leaning on his pole, bareheaded
and in shirt and trousers only, a rude Apollo of a man, coming down
from that "vast uplandish country" to the main; of nameless age, with
flaxen hair, and vigorous, weather-bleached countenance, in whose
wrinkles the sun still lodged, as little touched by the heats and
frosts and withering cares of life as a maple of the mountain; an
undressed, unkempt, uncivil man, with whom we parleyed awhile, and
parted not without a sincere interest in one another.

His humanity was genuine and instinctive, and his rudeness only a
manner. He reached for his crutches and laboriously came to his feet.
Hands belled before his mouth, he trumpeted ringingly abroad: "Let the war go on!"

An officer, approaching from the bridge, seemed suddenly to be stricken with blindness, deafness,
and a curious facial paralysis.

Once more the column undulated over the tawny crest of the hill. The nurse stood watching,
long after her soldier had become indistinguishable in the swinging, grayish-brown mass.

"Hey, nurse!" the fat private, again seated, called to her.

To his dismay she came to stand beside him, refreshed, radiant.

"What you think of the war?" he asked.

He was embarrassed by her nearness. He had proposed badinage at a suitable distance.

"This war is nothing," said the girl.

"No?" The private was entertained.

"Nothing! A bore, of course, but it will end in a minute."

"Sure it will!" agreed the private. "Don't let no one tell you different."

"I should think not! This man's war won't bother me any more."

"Not any more?" demanded the private with insinuating emphasis.

"Not any more."

The private felt emboldened.

"Say, sister"--he grinned up at her--"that boy changed your view a lot, didn't he?"

"You mean to say you were here?" She flashed him a look of annoyance.

"Was I here? Sister, we was all here! The whole works was here!"

She reflected, the upper lip drawn down.

"Who cares?" she retorted. She turned away, then paused, debating with herself. "You--you needn't
let it go any farther, but I've got to tell someone. It was a surprise. I was never so bumped
in my whole life."

The private grinned again.

"Lady, that lad just naturally put a comether on you."

She considered this, then shook her head.

"No, it was more like--we must have put one on each other. It--it was fierce!"

"Happy days!" cheered the private. She lighted him with the effulgence of a knowing smile.

"Thanks a lot," she said.

The war went on.

       *       *       *       *       *

In her next letter Winona Penniman wrote: "We moved up to a station nearer the front last Tuesday.
I spent a night with Patricia Whipple. The child has come through it all wonderfully so far.
A month ago she was down and out; now she can't get enough work to do. Says the war bores her
stiff. She means to stick it through, but all her talk is of going home. By the way, she told
me she had a little visit with Wilbur Cowan the other day. She says she never saw him looking
better."

CHAPTER XIX

Two lines of helmeted men went over the crest of the hill. Private Cowan was no longer conscious
of aching feet and leaden legs or of the burden that bowed his shoulders. There was a pounding
in his ears, and in his mind a verse of Scripture that had lingered inexplicably there since
their last billet at Comprey. For the most part we stupidly confound one man with another. The dull
distinguish only races or nations, or at most classes, but the wise man, individuals. To his
Friend a man's peculiar character appears in every feature and in
every action, and it is thus drawn out and improved by him.

Think of the importance of Friendship in the education of men.

"He that hath love and judgment too, Sees more than any other doe."

It will make a man honest; it will make him a hero; it will make him a saint. It is the state of the
just dealing with the just, the magnanimous with the magnanimous, the sincere with the sincere,
man with man.

And it is well said by another poet, "Why love among the virtues
is not known, Is that love is them all contract in one."

All the abuses which are the object of reform with the philanthropist,
the statesman, and the housekeeper are unconsciously amended in the
intercourse of Friends.

A Friend is one who incessantly pays us the compliment of expecting from us all the virtues,
and who can appreciate them in us.

It takes two to speak the truth,-- one to speak, and another to hear.
How can one treat with magnanimity mere wood and stone?

If we dealt only with the false and dishonest, we should at last forget how to speak truth.
Only lovers know the value and magnanimity of truth, while traders
prize a cheap honesty, and neighbors and acquaintance a cheap civility.

In our daily intercourse with men, our nobler faculties are dormant and suffered to rust. None
will pay us the compliment to expect nobleness from us. Though we
have gold to give, they demand only copper.

We ask our neighbor to suffer himself to be dealt with truly, sincerely, nobly; but he answers
no by his deafness. He does not even hear this prayer.

He says practically, I will be content if you treat me as "no better than I should be," as deceitful,
mean, dishonest, and selfish.

For the most part, we are contented so to deal and to be dealt with, and we do not think that for
the mass of men there is any truer and nobler relation possible. A man may have good neighbors,
so called, and acquaintances, and even companions, wife, parents, brothers, sisters, children,
who meet himself and one another on this ground only. The State does not demand justice of its members, but thinks
that it succeeds very well with the least degree of it, hardly more
than rogues practise; and so do the neighborhood and the family.

What is commonly called Friendship even is only a little more honor
among rogues. But sometimes we are said to love another, that is, to
stand in a true relation to him, so that we give the best to, and
receive the best from, him.

       Between whom there is hearty truth, there is love; and in proportion
to our truthfulness and confidence in one another, our lives are
divine and miraculous, and answer to our ideal.

There are passages of affection in our intercourse with mortal men and women, such as no prophecy
had taught us to expect, which transcend our earthly life, and anticipate Heaven for us. What
is this Love that may come right into the middle of a prosaic Goffstown day, equal to any of
the gods? that discovers a new world, fair and fresh and eternal, occupying the place of the old one,
when to the common eye a dust has settled on the universe? which world cannot else be reached, and
does not exist. What other words, we may almost ask, are memorable and worthy to be repeated
than those which love has inspired? It is wonderful that they were ever uttered. They are few
and rare, indeed, but, like a strain of music, they are incessantly repeated and modulated by
the memory. All other words crumble off with the stucco which overlies the heart. We should not
dare to repeat these now aloud. We are not competent to hear them at all times. The books for
young people say a great deal about the selection of Friends; it is because they really have nothing
to say about Friends. They mean associates and confidants merely.

"Know that the contrariety of foe and Friend proceeds from God." Friendship takes place between those
who have an affinity for one another, and is a perfectly natural
and inevitable result.

No professions nor advances will avail. Even speech, at first, necessarily has nothing to do with
it; but it follows after silence, as the buds in the graft do not put forth into leaves till long
after the graft has taken. It is a drama in which the parties have no part to act. We are all
Mussulmen and fatalists in this respect. Impatient and uncertain lovers think that they must say or
do something kind whenever they meet; they must never be cold.

But they who are Friends do not do what they think they must, but what they must. Even their
Friendship is to some extent but a sublime phenomenon to them. The true
and not despairing Friend will address his Friend in some such terms
as these. "I never asked thy leave to let me love thee,-- I have
a right. Rolling kitchens brought up the one hot meal of the
day, to be taken to the front by carrying parties. Company commanders made a last reconnaissance
of their positions. For Private Cowan it was a moment of double waiting. Waiting for battle
was now secondary. In a tiny slit trench on the forward edge of a railway embankment Private
Brennon remarked upon the locomotion of the foreign frog.

"Will you look at 'em walk!" said Spike. "Just like an animal! Don't they ever learn to hop
like regular gorfs?"

Said Private Cowan: "I suppose you saw that girl back there the other day?"

"Me and the regiment," said Spike, and chewed gum discreetly.

"She's a girl from back home. Funny! I'd never taken much notice of her before."

"You took a-plenty back there. You've raised your average awful high. I'll say it!"

"I hardly knew what I was doing."

"Didn't you? We did!"

"Since then sometimes I forget what we're here for."

"Don't worry, kid! You'll be told."

"It's funny how things happen that you never expected, but afterward you see it was natural
as anything."

       *       *       *       *       *

At midnight the quiet sky split redly asunder. German guns began to feel a way to Paris. The
earth rocked in a gentle rhythm under a rain of shells. Shrapnel and gas lent vivacity to the
assault. Guns to their utmost reach swept the little valley like a Titan's sickle. Private
Cowan nestled his cheek against the earthen side of his little slit trench and tried to remember
what she had worn that last night in Newbern. Something glistening, warm in colour, like ripe
fruit; and a rusty braid bound her head. She had watched, doubtfully, to see if people were
not impatient at her talk. A rattlepate, old Sharon called her. She was something else now;
some curious sort of woman, older, not afraid. She wouldn't care any more if people were impatient.

At four o'clock of that morning the bombardment of the front line gave way to a rolling barrage.
Close behind this, hugging it, as the men said, came gray waves of the enemy. It was quieter
after the barrage had passed: only the tack-tack of machine guns and the clash of meeting bayonets.

"Going to have some rough stuff," said Private Brennon.

For a long time then Private Cowan was so engrossed with the routine of his present loose trade
that the name of Whipple seemed to have no room in his mind. For four hours he had held a cold
rifle and thought. Now the gun was hot, its bayonet wet, and he thought not at all. When it
was over he was one of fifty-two men left of his company that had numbered two hundred and
fifty-one. But his own uniform would still be clean of wound chevrons.

Two divisions of German shock troops had broken against a regiment of American fighting men.

"I don't like fighting any more," said Private Cowan.

"Pushed 'em across the crick," said Private Brennon. "Now we chase 'em!"

So they joined the chase and fought again at Jaulgonne, where it rained for three days and
nights, and Private Cowan considered his life in danger because he caught cold; it might develop
into pneumonia. He didn't want to get sick and die--not now. It had not, of late, occurred
to him that he would be in any danger save from sickness. But he threw off the menacing cold
and was fit for the big battle at Fismes, stubbornly pronounced "Fissims" by Private Brennon,
after repeated corrections.

Private Cowan thought now, when not actually engaged at his loose trade, of his brother. He
wished the boy could have been with him. He would have learned something. He would have learned
that you feel differently about a country if once you fight for it. His country had been only
a name; he had merely ached to fight. Now he hated fighting; words could never tell how he
loathed it; but his country had become more than a name. He would fight again for that. He
wished Merle could have had this new feeling about his country.

It was before Fismes, being out where he had no call to be, and after winning a finish fight
with a strangely staring spectacled foe, that he stumbled across the inert form of Private
Brennon, who must also have gone where he had no call to go. He leaned over him. Spike's mask
was broken, but half adjusted. He shouldered the burden, grunting as he did so, angered by
the weight of it. He was irritated, too, by men who were firing at him, but his greater resentment
was for Spike's unreasonable mass.

"You son of a gun--hog fat! Overweight, that's what you are! You'll never make a hundred and
thirty-three again, not you! Gee, gosh, a light heavyweight, that's what you are!"

He complained to the unhearing Spike all the way back to a dressing station, though twice refusing
help to carry his load.

"Mustard gas," said the surgeon.

He was back there when Spike on his stretcher came violently to life.

"What a dark night!" said Spike between two of the spasms that wrenched him. "Can't see your
hand before your face!"

"Say, you're hog fat!" grumbled Private Cowan. "You weigh a ton!"

"It's dark, but it feels light--it's warm."

Private Cowan leaned to shield the sun from Spike's garbled face.

"Sure it's dark!" said he.

"Can't see your hand before your face!"

Spike was holding up a hand, thumb and fingers widely spread, moving it before his sightless eyes.

"You got to go back. You're too fat to be up here."

He rested his hand on Spike's forehead but withdrew it quickly when Spike winced.

He went on with the war; and the war went on.

       *       *       *       *       *

"You would never guess," wrote Winona, "who was brought to this base hospital last week. It
was the Mr. Brennon I wrote you of, Mr. Edward Brennon, the friend of Wilbur's who went with
him from Newbern. He is blind from gas, poor thing! Our head surgeon knew him. It seems he
is one of the prettiest lightweights the head surgeon ever saw in action, a two-handed fighter
with a good right and a good left. These are terms used in the sport of boxing.

"Of course he knows he is blind, but at first he thought he was only in the dark. Wilbur had
told him of me. The most curious misunderstanding--he is positive he once saw me at home. Says
I am the prettiest thing he ever looked at, and don't I remember coming into the post office
one day in a white dress and white shoes and a blue parasol and getting some mail and going
out to a motor where some people waited for me? The foolish thing insists I have blue eyes
and light brown hair and I was smiling when I looked at him in passing; not smiling at him,
of course, but from something the people in the car had said; and I had one glove off and carried
the other with the blue sunshade. And I think he means a girl from Rochester that visited the
Hendricks, those mill people, summer before last. She was pretty enough, in a girlish way,
but not at all my type. But I can't convince Edward it was not I he saw. I have given up trying.
What harm in letting him think so? He says, anyway, he would know I am beautiful, because he
can feel it even if I come into the room. Did you ever hear such talk? But I am looking a lot
better, in spite of all I have been through.

"I had a week in Paris last month, and bought some clothes, a real Paris dress and things."
You would not know me in the new outfit. The skirt is of rather a daring shortness, but such
is the mode now, and I am told it becomes me. Poor Edward, he is so patient, except for spells
when he seems to go mad with realizing his plight. He is still a man. His expression is forceful.
He doesn't smoke, and warns me against it, though the few cigarettes I allow myself are a precious
relief. But I have promised him to give up the habit when the war is over. He is a strong man,
but helpless. He still believes I am the pretty thing he saw in the post office. The skirt
is pleated, light summer stuff, and falls in a straight line. Of course I have the shoes and
stockings that go with it."

"There!" exploded the judge. "Taking up with prize fighters--traipsing round in a regular French
dress, looking like something she's not supposed to be!"

"Lysander!" rebuked his wife hotly.

"He tells me lots about Wilbur," continued the letter. "He hints that the boy is in love, but
will say nothing definite. Men are so close-mouthed. I hope our boy doesn't marry some little
French anybody. His face is not exactly pleasant to look upon for the time being, but he has
a very winning personality."

"Who's she mean that for?" demanded the Judge, truculently. "The Cowan boy?"

CHAPTER XX

On a day late in June of 1919 Wilbur Cowan dropped off the noon train that paused at Newbern
Center. He carried the wicker suitcase he had taken away, and wore the same clothes. He had
the casual, incurious look of one who had been for a little trip down the line. No one about
the station heeded him, nor did he notice any one he knew. There was a new assemblage of station
loafers, and none of these recognized him. Suitcase in hand, his soft hat pulled well down,
he walked quickly round the crowd and took a roundabout way through quiet streets to the Penniman
place.

The town to his eye had shrunk; buildings were not so high as he remembered them, wide spaces
narrower, streets shorter, less thronged. The Scotch-Irish settlers of the latter town, according
to this authority, were the first to introduce the potato into New England, as well as the manufacture
of linen cloth.

Everything that is printed and bound in a book contains some echo at least of the best that is in
literature.

Indeed, the best books have a use, like sticks and stones, which is above or beside their design,
not anticipated in the preface, nor concluded in the appendix. Even Virgil's poetry serves a very
different use to me to-day from what it did to his contemporaries. It has often an acquired and accidental
value merely, proving that man is still man in the world. It is pleasant to meet with such still
lines as, "Jam laeto turgent in palmite gemmae"; Now the buds swell
on the joyful stem.

"Strata jacent passim sua quaeque sub arbore poma"; The apples lie
scattered everywhere, each under its tree.

In an ancient and dead language, any recognition of living nature attracts us. These are such sentences
as were written while grass grew and water ran.

It is no small recommendation when a book will stand the test of mere unobstructed sunshine and
daylight.

What would we not give for some great poem to read now, which would
be in harmony with the scenery,-- for if men read aright, methinks
they would never read anything but poems.

No history nor philosophy can supply their place. The wisest definition of poetry the poet will instantly
prove false by setting aside its requisitions. We can, therefore, publish only our advertisement
of it.

There is no doubt that the loftiest written wisdom is either rhymed,
or in some way musically measured,-- is, in form as well as substance,
poetry; and a volume which should contain the condensed wisdom of
mankind need not have one rhythmless line.

Yet poetry, though the last and finest result, is a natural fruit.

As naturally as the oak bears an acorn, and the vine a gourd, man bears
a poem, either spoken or done. It is the chief and most memorable success,
for history is but a prose narrative of poetic deeds. What else have
the Hindoos, the Persians, the Babylonians, the Egyptians done, that
can be told?

It is the simplest relation of phenomena, and describes the commonest
sensations with more truth than science does, and the latter at a
distance slowly mimics its style and methods.

The poet sings how the blood flows in his veins. He performs his
functions, and is so well that he needs such stimulus to sing only
as plants to put forth leaves and blossoms.

He would strive in vain to modulate the remote and transient music
which he sometimes hears, since his song is a vital function like
breathing, and an integral result like weight.

It is not the overflowing of life but its subsidence rather, and is drawn
from under the feet of the poet.

It is enough if Homer but say the sun sets. He is as serene as nature,
and we can hardly detect the enthusiasm of the bard. It is as if
nature spoke.

He presents to us the simplest pictures of human life, so the child
itself can understand them, and the man must not think twice to appreciate
his naturalness.

Each reader discovers for himself that, with respect to the simpler features
of nature, succeeding poets have done little else than copy his similes.

His more memorable passages are as naturally bright as gleams of sunshine
in misty weather. Nature furnishes him not only with words, but with
stereotyped lines and sentences from her mint. At the first ominous note
of its droning he had broken for cover. After that, in spite of himself, he would be glancing
uneasily at the Plummer place across the road. This was fronted by a hedge of cypress--ideal
machine-gun cover. But not once during the long afternoon was he shot at. He brought out and
repaired the lawn mower, oiled its rusted parts and ran it gayly over the grass. At suppertime,
when Dave Cowan came, he was wetting the shorn sward with spray from a hose.

"Back?" said Dave, peering as at a bit of the far cosmos flung in his way.

"Back," said his son.

They shook hands.

"You haven't changed any," said Wilbur, scanning Dave's placid face under the straw hat and
following the lines of his spare figure down to the vestiges of a once noble pair of shoes.

"You only been away two years," said Dave. "I wouldn't change much in that time. That's the
way of the mind, though. We always forget how slowly evolution works its wonders. Anyhow, you
know what they say in our trade--when a printer dies he turns into a white mule. I'm no white
mule yet. You've changed, though."

"I didn't know it."

"Face harder--about ten years older. Kind of set and sour looking. Ever laugh any more?"

"Of course I laugh."

"You don't look it. Never forget how to laugh. It's a life-saver. Laugh even at wars and killings.
Human life in each of us isn't much. It's like that stream you're spreading over the ground.
The drops fall back to earth, but the main stream is constant. That's all the life force cares
about--the main stream. Doesn't care about the drops; a few more or less here and there make
no difference."

"Yes, sir," said Wilbur.

Dave Cowan scanned the front of the house. The judge was not in sight. He went softly to lean
above the parrot's cage and in low, wheedling tones, uttered words to it.

"Flapdoodle, Flapdoodle, Flapdoodle!" screeched the parrot in return, and laughed harshly.
The bird was a master of sarcastic inflection.

Dave came back looking pleased and proud.

"Almost human," he declared. "Kept back a few million years by accident--our little feathered
brother." He gestured toward the house. "Old Flapdoodle, in there, he's a rabid red these days.
Got tired of being a patriot. Worked hard for a year trying to prove that Vielhaber was a German
spy, flapping his curtain at night to the German Foreign Office. But no one paid any attention
to him except a few other flapdoodles, so then he began to read your brother's precious words,
and now he's a violent comrade. Fact! expecting any day that the workers will take things over
and he'll come into money--money the interests have kept him out of. He kind of licks his chops
when he talks about it. Never heard him talk about his wife's share, though. Say, that brother
of yours is making a plumb fool of himself!"

"He didn't understand."

"No--and he doesn't yet."

"Where is he now?"

"Oh"--Dave circled a weary hand to the zenith--"off somewhere holy-rolling. Gets his name in
the papers--young poet radical that abandoned life of luxury to starve with toiling comrades.
Say, do you know what a toiling comrade gets per day now? No matter. Your brother hasn't toiled
any. Makes red-hot speeches. I would that I were worthy to be any man's Friend.

What is commonly honored with the name of Friendship is no very profound or powerful instinct.
Men do not, after all, love their Friends greatly. I do not often see the farmers made seers
and wise to the verge of insanity by their Friendship for one another. They are not often transfigured
and translated by love in each other's presence. I do not observe them purified, refined,
and elevated by the love of a man. Say, tell us about the war.

"It was an awful big one," said his son.

       *       *       *       *       *

Soon after a novel breakfast the following morning--in that it was late and leisurely and he
ate from a chair at a table--he heard the squealing brakes of a motor car and saw one brought
to a difficult stop at the Penniman gate. Sharon Whipple, the driver, turned to look back at
the machine indignantly, as if it had misbehaved. Wilbur Cowan met him at the gate.

It became Sharon's pretense that he was not hugging the boy, merely feeling the muscles in
his shoulders and back to see if he were as good a lightweight as ever. He pounded and thumped
and punched and even made as if to wrestle with the returned soldier, laughing awkwardly through
it; but his florid face had paled with the excitement. 

What is "action"? What are the "settled functions"? What is "a man's own religion," which is
so much better than another's? What is "a man's own particular calling"? What are the duties
which are appointed by one's birth? I bet you had some narrow escapes,
didn't you now?"

Wilbur Cowan considered.

"Well, I had a pretty bad cold in the Argonne."

"I want to know!" said Sharon, much concerned. He pranced heavy-footedly before the other,
thumping his chest. "Well, I bet you threw it off! A hard cold ain't any joke. But look here,
come on for a ride!"

They entered the car and Sharon drove. But he continued to bubble with questions, to turn his
head and gesture with one hand or the other. Behold the difference between the Oriental and the
Occidental.

The former has nothing to do in this world; the latter is full of
activity.

The one looks in the sun till his eyes are put out; the other follows
him prone in his westward course. "Little more
peaked, mebbe--kind of more mature or judgmatical or whatever you call it. Well, go on--tell
about the war."

