I have above cited a passage from the ancient Universal History, in which the Writer appears
inclined to believe the reality of Prince Madog's Voyages. But the Author of the History of
America, Modern Part, Vol. 38, p. 5. treats them with contempt. "To recite, says he, the fabulous
story of Madog, a Welsh Prince, and the Tale related by William of Newbury, of two green Children,
who were found in a Field, in the Reign of King Stephen, would afford the judicious Reader
as little Amusement as Instruction."

This voluminous Work, upon the whole, seems well executed, but like all others of great Length,
is very unequal; because written by persons of different Abilities and Opinions. Gentlemen
of great eminence in the literary World, and of unimpeached Integrity were engaged; and others,
though of acknowledged Abilities, yet, to say the least, of very suspicious Characters, were
employed. Among the latter, Psalmanazar, who, if he was a Spanish Jesuit, as has been said,
and wrote this article, might be induced by the Amor Patriæ, to ascribe to his Countrymen the
honour of having, first discoved America. The Author of the above paragraph, whoever he was,
affected to look upon the Tradition concerning Madog, and the Tale of the two green Children,
as equally ill founded, and unworthy of credit. Whereas in Truth, the one is plainly an idle
monkish Tale, the other a simple Narrative of an Event. One is a Fact supported by numerous
authorities, the other evidently is one of those prodigies, pretended miracles, and priestly
Inventions, which are to be found in most Authors who wrote during the dark ages of Popery.

We have above seen, that one has been favourably thought of by several Writers, at home and
abroad, and is confirmed by circumstances and memorials in America: the other I have not seen
mentioned by any Writer, but by William of Newbury, and by a few who have cited him.[yy]

[Footnote yy: That the ancient Britons were descended from the Trojans was asserted by several
Writers before Jefferey of Monmouth, who wrote about the Year 1152. It is alluded to by Taliessyn,
who flourished about the middle of the 6th Century. A Welsh Author, already mentioned, Mr.
Theophilus Evans, says, that the first Writer, who questioned the Fact, was William of Newbury,
in welsh called, Gwilym bach, about the Year 1192, on this occasion. When Jefferey ab Arthur,
(of Monmouth, who was Bishop of St. Asaph) died; William an English-man applied to David ab
Owen to succeed him, and was refused. The refusal so mortified him, that he immediately set
about composing his Book, in which he abused Jefferey, and the whole Welsh Nation. There is
great reason to believe that resentment, upon some account, guided the Pen of William.

See Drych y prif Oesoedd, and the Preface to Jefferey's History.]

It is true that in this Century, and about the close of the last, if not near the beginning
of it, many Welsh people settled in America.[zz] But it is as true, that long before the earliest
of these periods, there were whole Tribes in the inland parts of that Country, who spoke Welsh,
and who consequently, must have been descended from some Colony or Colonies, who had settled
there long before the Year, 1660.

[Footnote zz: See a performance entitled, Hanes y Bedyddwyr ymhlith y Cymru. "The History of
the Welsh Baptists," by Joshua Thomas. Carmarthen. 1778.]

Mr. Jones says that they were numerous, in 1660, and Messrs. Beatty and Stewart, intimate the
same, in 1766, and 1768. It cannot be thought that there Tribes are descended from emigrants
in the present or last Century. Their Numbers, Customs, Manners, and Traditions, prove that
they have been settled there for many Ages. Besides, the difference between the European and
American Welsh, in Mr. Jones's time, shews that the two people had then been long asunder;
for it was greater than could take place, within 60, indeed, within 100 Years.

For these reasons I am strongly of opinion, that several American Tribes are descended from
Prince Madog's Colony.

From the earliest account we have of the ancient Britons they seem to have been the best informed,
formed, and most enlightened of all the northern Nations in Europe. The speech of Caractacus,
addressed to the Emperor Claudius, and preserved by Tacitus, is a proof that good natural Sense
and Literature, such as it was in that Age, in some measure, flourished in Britain.[aaa]

[Footnote aaa: Tacitus annal. Lib. XII. This Author lived in the reign of Claudius. Caractacus,
in Welsh, Caradoc, appeared before the Emperor in 52. His address to Claudius made a great
impression upon all the audience, so that his Fetters were immediately taken off. It is possible
that Tacitus was himself one of the Audience. As the Romans had been in Britain then about
100 Years, Caractacus might understand and perhaps speak some Latin, yet he could hardly have
spoken so correctly and elegantly as is represented by Tacitus. The Language, doubtless, was
Tacitus's, but the Sentiments were those of Caractacus. The stile, indeed, is that of Tacitus.
Rapin's History of England. Vol. I. p. 44. 8vo. Edit. Giraldus Descriptio Cambriæ, Chap. XII.
and note, and Rowland's Mona antiqua restaurata, passim.]

We have also in Cæsar several passages favourable to British Learning: I see no reason, therefore,
why British Writers should be treated with contempt.

The Scotch writers, especially of late years, have strained every nerve to establish the reputation
of their ancient Authors. Oman and Fingal are ostentatiously held out, as instances of superior
merit and excellence; but the poor Britons are treated with disdain, as having no merit for
imagination, or original Composition.

Taliessyn, a Welsh Bard, who, as already observed, flourished about the middle of the 6th Century,
and who by way of eminence was called Pen Beirdd y Gorllewin, "Head of the Western Bards;"
some of whose works are come down to us; particularly, an Ode, in Welsh, translated into Latin
sapphic Verre, by David Jones, Vicar of Llanfair Duffryn Clwyd, Denbighshire, in 1580.[bbb]
Owen Cyfeiliog, and Gwalchmai, in the 12th Century; and many others, at different periods,
of distinguished merit, have appeared in Wales. Some of whom have plainly alluded to Madog's
Adventures. For the Names, Times, and the Works of these Bards, I refer to Mr. Evans's Specimens
of the ancient Welsh Bards, 1764. To Sir Thomas Herbert's Travels and to Mr. Warrington's History
of Wales, p. 307. Edit. 1788.

[Footnote bbb: Owen's Remains, ubi supra, p. i23, &c.--A Gentleman, well versed in British
Antiquities, and Welsh Poetry, to whom these papers were communicated, says, that there are
30 or 40 pieces of Talessyn's now in being, but is doubtful whether the above Ode be Taliessyn's
or not.]

I would observe here that though our Northern Country-men affect, in some degree, to despise
the Welsh, as having produced no Man of Genius, Science, or Renown, which is by no means the
Truth, as appears from what hath been above said; yet it is well known, that the Stuart, their
favourite Family, by the Mother side, is descended from the ancient Britons.

Fleance, the Son of Banquo, who was murdered by the order of the Usurper Macbeth, to avoid
the like Fate, fled to North Wales, where he was kindly and hospitably entertained by Prince
Gryffydd ab Llewelyn ab Sitsyllt.[ccc]

[Footnote ccc: Cecil, the Family name of the Marquis of Salisbury, and of the Earl of Exeter
seems to be derived from this ancient British name, anglicized.]

Ungenerously he debauched his Daughter, Nest, by whom he had a Son, called Walter. This Son,
being upbraided with his illegitimate Birth, by one of his Companions, slew him, and fled to
Scotland, where in time he became Lord Steward of that Kingdom; and all the Families of that
name in that Country, are descended from that Bastard.[ddd]

[Footnote ddd: For this ungenerous proceeding, Fleance was put to Death by Prince Gryffydd,
and Nest was put to a menial office; some say, that of a Scullion. She was afterwards married
to Trahaern ab Caradoc, Prince of North Wales.

Buchanan. Hist. Rer. Scot. p. 193. Dr. Powel's Notes on Giraldus, Lib. I. Chap. 2. p. 88. Edit.
1588. Warrington's History of Wales, p. 204, &c. Humphry Llwyd's and Dr. Powel's additions
to Caradoc, p. 91. &c.]

Thus I have, to the best of my Knowledge and judgment, examined the Truth of the Tradition,
concerning Prince Madog ab Owen Gwynedd, and his Colony's Emigration, about the Year of Christ
1170; and, I presume, have shewn, contrary to the assertions of Lord Lyttelton and Dr. Robertson,
that there always were, and that there still are Monuments, Vestiges, and memorials of that
Event in America. Having produced the Evidence, I leave the Reader to draw the conclusion.

       *       *       *       *       *

ERRATA.

Page     Line                                  Read.
  7       4                                  perceiving.
 10       8 from the bottom                  contention.
 12      13                                  mwyedig.
 13       6                                  mewn.
 14       1                                  f'enaid.
 26       4 note                             formerly.
 28      last line, note                     restaurata.
 31       7 note                             somethings.
 31                                          Taliessyn.
 45      2 after "River" read,
      "nine parts in ten passing over the River, and &c.
 61     16                                   Height.

The Reader will be so candid as to excuse the above Errors, and others which may have been
overlooked. Those in the Welsh could hardly have been avoided, as the Printer has no Knowledge
of the Welsh Tongue.

APPENDIX.

The following Observations having been omitted, in their proper places; I beg leave to insert
them as an Appendix.

In page 37. a passage is cited from the Universal History, Vol. XX. where it is said, on the
supposed authority of Hakluyt, that Prince Madog made three Voyages to the West. When Madog
first sailed it does not appear that he had any particular place in view; but discovering a
fruitful Land, he returned to his native Country, and having collected together a considerable
number of Men and Women, he went back to the Friends he had left behind. This is what Humphry
Llwyd says, and adds, "that he bid his final adieu to his native Country."

Hakluyt's account is that Prince Madog, "prepared certain Ships with Men and Munition, and
fought Adventures by Seas, sailed West. That he returned to his own Country, and declared the
pleasant and fruitful Countries he had seen without Inhabitants; that he got together, a number
of Men and Women to go with him; that he took leave of his Friends, and returned to his Companions,
whom he had left behind." Llwyd and Hakluyt agree in saying that Madog arrived in that Western
Country in the Year 1170, and returned back, and went the second time with Ten Sailes." The
Authors of the Universal History seem to have mistook Hakluyt. Besides Hakluyt says, he received
this account from Guttun Owen; from whom Llwyd also received his Information; it is not therefore
likely that Hakluyt should differ so materially from his Authorities.

In page 51, it is observed that when the Romans invaded this Island, the Ancient Britons used
the Greek Alphabetical Character in writing. This is expressly said by Julius Cæsar. The Welsh
tongue on this Day bears a strong resemblance, in Words and Letters to the Hebrew and Greek.
Instances may be seen in a Pamphlet, published in 1783, entitled, Thoughts on the Origin of
Language, &c. The Gutturals in the three Languages are founded much alike. The , Hebrew, the
X, Greek. and the Ch. in Welsh are pronounced exactly alike. The English, make very little,
if any difference in pronunciation, between the Greek X, and the K, both are sounded like the
English K. but they have a very different sound; of which no Idea can be conveyed, but by articulation.
It is very familiar to the Welsh, and to the Scots, Irish and Germans.

The, w Omega, Greek, in the Welsh, is the O long, and of the same figure, and sound. Thus in
English, "good" in Welsh is written, "gwd."

There can hardly be any doubt but that the Roman Characters were introduced by the Romans;
and, as more simple, soon became general. The Greek, of consequence, gradually declined. However
the Britons seems to have preserved the sound, though not the Form of their Alphabetical Characters.

It may however be thought probable, as hath been above observed, that the Scriptures were written
in the Welsh Language, but in Greek Characters.

       *       *       *       *       *

Published by the same Author.

Thoughts on the Origin of Language, and on the most rational and natural manner of teaching
the Languages. p. 2s.

A free Enquiry into the Authenticity of the first and second Chapters of St. Matthew's Gospel.
&c. 2d Edition. Much enlarged p. 4s.