To ascertain this law, and apply it, in art or in literature, to the changing conditions of
our progressive life, is the business of the artist. It is the business of the critic to mark
how the performance conforms to or departs from the law evolved and transmitted in the long-experience
of the race. True criticism, then, is not a matter of caprice or of individual liking or disliking,
nor of conformity to a prevailing and generally temporary popular judgment. Individual judgment
may be very interesting and have its value, depending upon the capacity of the judge. It was
my good fortune once to fall in with a person who had been moved, by I know not what inspiration,
to project himself out of his safe local conditions into France, Greece, Italy, Cairo, and
Jerusalem. He assured me that he had seen nothing anywhere in the wide world of nature and
art to compare with the beauty of Nebraska.

What are the qualities common to all the masterpieces of literature, or, let us say, to those
that have endured in spite of imperfections and local provincialisms?

First of all I should name simplicity, which includes lucidity of expression, the clear thought
in fitting, luminous words. And this is true when the thought is profound and the subject is
as complex as life itself. This quality is strikingly exhibited for us in Jowett's translation
of Plato--which is as modern in feeling and phrase as anything done in Boston--in the naif
and direct Herodotus, and, above all, in the King James vernacular translation of the Bible,
which is the great text-book of all modern literature.

The second quality is knowledge of human nature. We can put up with the improbable in invention,
because the improbable is always happening in life, but we cannot tolerate the so-called psychological
juggling with the human mind, the perversion of the laws of the mind, the forcing of character
to fit the eccentricities of plot. Whatever excursions the writer makes in fancy, we require
fundamental consistency with human nature. And this is the reason why psychological studies
of the abnormal, or biographies of criminal lunatics, are only interesting to pathologists
and never become classics in literature.

A third quality common to all masterpieces is what we call charm, a matter more or less of
style, and which may be defined as the agreeable personality of the writer. This is indispensable.
It is this personality which gives the final value to every work of art as well as of literature.
It is not enough to copy nature or to copy, even accurately, the incidents of life. Only by
digestion and transmutation through personality does any work attain the dignity of art. The
great works of architecture, even, which are somewhat determined by mathematical rule, owe
their charm to the personal genius of their creators. For this reason our imitations of Greek
architecture are commonly failures. To speak technically, the masterpiece of literature is
characterized by the same knowledge of proportion and perspective as the masterpiece in art.

If there is a standard of literary excellence, as there is a law of beauty--and it seems to
me that to doubt this in the intellectual world is to doubt the prevalence of order that exists
in the natural--it is certainly possible to ascertain whether a new production conforms, and
how far it conforms, to the universally accepted canons of art. To work by this rule in literary
criticism is to substitute something definite for the individual tastes, moods, and local bias
of the critic. It is true that the vast body of that which we read is ephemeral, and justifies
its existence by its obvious use for information, recreation, and entertainment. But to permit
the impression to prevail that an unenlightened popular preference for a book, however many
may hold it, is to be taken as a measure of its excellence, is like claiming that a debased
Austrian coin, because it circulates, is as good as a gold stater of Alexander. The case is
infinitely worse than this; for a slovenly literature, unrebuked and uncorrected, begets slovenly
thought and debases our entire intellectual life.

It should be remembered, however, that the creative faculty in man has not ceased, nor has
puny man drawn all there is to be drawn out of the eternal wisdom. We are probably only in
the beginning of our evolution, and something new may always be expected, that is, new and
fresh applications of universal law. The critic of literature needs to be in an expectant and
receptive frame of mind. Many critics approach a book with hostile intent, and seem to fancy
that their business is to look for what is bad in it, and not for what is good. It seems to
me that the first duty of the critic is to try to understand the author, to give him a fair
chance by coming to his perusal with an open mind. Whatever book you read, or sermon or lecture
you hear, give yourself for the time absolutely to its influence. This is just to the author,
fair to the public, and, above all, valuable to the intellectual sanity of the critic himself.
It is a very bad thing for the memory and the judgment to get into a habit of reading carelessly
or listening with distracted attention. I know of nothing so harmful to the strength of the
mind as this habit. There is a valuable mental training in closely following a discourse that
is valueless in itself. After the reader has unreservedly surrendered himself to the influence
of the book, and let his mind settle, as we say, and resume its own judgment, he is in a position
to look at it objectively and to compare it with other facts of life and of literature dispassionately.
He can then compare it as to form, substance, tone, with the enduring literature that has come
down to us from all the ages. It is a phenomenon known to all of us that we may for the moment
be carried away by a book which upon cool reflection we find is false in ethics and weak in
construction. We find this because we have standards outside ourselves.

I am not concerned to define here what is meant by literature. A great mass of it has been
accumulated in the progress of mankind, and, fortunately for different wants and temperaments,
it is as varied as the various minds that produced it. The main thing to be considered is that
this great stream of thought is the highest achievement and the most valuable possession of
mankind. It is not only that literature is the source of inspiration to youth and the solace
of age, but it is what a national language is to a nation, the highest expression of its being.
Whatever we acquire of science, of art, in discovery, in the application of natural laws in
industries, is an enlargement of our horizon, and a contribution to the highest needs of man,
his intellectual life. The controversy between the claims of the practical life and the intellectual
is as idle as the so-called conflict between science and religion. And the highest and final
expression of this life of man, his thought, his emotion, his feeling, his aspiration, whatever
you choose to call it, is in the enduring literature he creates. He certainly misses half his
opportunity on this planet who considers only the physical or what is called the practical.
He is a man only half developed. I can conceive no more dreary existence than that of a man
who is past the period of business activity, and who cannot, for his entertainment, his happiness,
draw upon the great reservoir of literature. For what did I come into this world if I am to
be like a stake planted in a fence, and not like a tree visited by all the winds of heaven
and the birds of the air?

Those who concern themselves with the printed matter in books and periodicals are often in
despair over the volume of it, and their actual inability to keep up with current literature.
They need not worry. If all that appears in books, under the pressure of publishers and the
ambition of experimenters in writing, were uniformly excellent, no reader would be under any
more obligation to read it than he is to see every individual flower and blossoming shrub.
Specimens of the varieties would suffice. But a vast proportion of it is the product of immature
minds, and of a yearning for experience rather than a knowledge of life. There is no more obligation
on the part of the person who would be well informed and cultivated to read all this than there
is to read all the colored incidents, personal gossip, accidents, and crimes repeated daily,
with sameness of effect, in the newspapers, some of the most widely circulated of which are
a composite of the police gazette and the comic almanac. A great deal of the reading done is
mere contagion, one form or another of communicated grippe, and it is consoling and even surprising
to know that if you escape the run of it for a season, you have lost nothing appreciable. Some
people, it has been often said, make it a rule never to read a book until it is from one to
five years old, By this simple device they escape the necessity of reading most of them, but
this is only a part of their gain. Considering the fact that the world is full of books of
the highest value for cultivation, entertainment, and information, which the utmost leisure
we can spare from other pressing avocations does not suffice to give us knowledge of, it does
seem to be little less than a moral and intellectual sin to flounder about blindly in the flood
of new publications. I am speaking, of course, of the general mass of readers, and not of the
specialists who must follow their subjects with ceaseless inquisition. But for most of us who
belong to the still comparatively few who, really read books, the main object of life is not
to keep up with the printing-press, any more than it is the main object of sensible people
to follow all the extremes and whims of fashion in dress. When a fashion in literature has
passed, we are surprised that it should ever have seemed worth the trouble of studying or imitating.
When the special craze has passed, we notice another thing, and that is that the author, not
being of the first rank or of the second, has generally contributed to the world all that he
has to give in one book, and our time has been wasted on his other books; and also that in
a special kind of writing in a given period--let us say, for example, the historico-romantic--we
perceive that it all has a common character, is constructed on the same lines of adventure
and with a prevailing type of hero and heroine, according to the pattern set by the first one
or two stories of the sort which became popular, and we see its more or less mechanical construction,
and how easily it degenerates into commercial book-making. Now while some of this writing has
an individual flavor that makes it entertaining and profitable in this way, we may be excused
from attempting to follow it all merely because it happens to be talked about for the moment,
and generally talked about in a very undiscriminating manner. We need not in any company be
ashamed if we have not read it all, especially if we are ashamed that, considering the time
at our disposal, we have not made the acquaintance of the great and small masterpieces of literature.
It is said that the fashion of this world passeth away, and so does the mere fashion in literature,
the fashion that does not follow the eternal law of beauty and symmetry, and contribute to
the intellectual and spiritual part of man.

