How can we find his words? In the first place there are the great central, luminous truths
which Jesus uttered, the fatherhood of God, the brotherhood of men, goodness as the condition
of acceptance on the part of God. And, on the theory that he did not contradict himself, we
are at liberty to waive one side those statements which grew up under the influence of later
tradition, popish or ecclesiastical, and which plainly contradict these. But the main point
I have in mind is one which scholars have wrought out under the name of the Triple Tradition.
It takes for its central thought, "In the mouth of two or three witnesses every word shall
be established." We know that the Gospels grew up through a long process of accretion after
a good many years. They were not written or planned by any one person; and, so far as we know,
they may not have been written by anybody whose name is traditionally connected with them to-day.
If, however, we find that three of the four witnesses agree in reporting that he said or did
a certain thing, we feel surer about it than when only one witness reports it. And if two report,
why, even then we feel a little more certain than we do when the report is from only one. And
yet, of course, the three may have omitted that which only one has recorded, and which is true.
But scholars have wrought out along this line what is called the Triple Tradition; that is,
they have constructed a complete story of the life and the teaching and the death of Jesus
out of the words which are common to three of the gospel writers. All of them tell this same
story; and this story of the Triple Tradition has no miraculous conception, it has no resurrection
of the body, no ascension into heaven. The miracles are reduced to the very lowest terms, becoming
almost natural and easy to be accounted for. In this story Jesus teaches none of the things
of which I have been speaking.

I say, then, that along the lines of the very best critical scholarship, coming as near to
the teaching of Jesus as we possibly can to-day, we are warranted in saying that this which
has usurped the name of the gospel of Christ is not only not good news, but it is not the news
which Jesus brought and preached. As has been said a good many times, it is a gospel about
Christ instead of being the gospel of Christ.

I am ready now to make the claim that we liberals of the modern world are the ones who come
nearer to preaching the gospel of Christ than any other part of the so-called Christian Church.
For what is it that we preach? We preach that the kingdom of God is at hand. We preach that
there is not a spot on the face of the earth where we are not at the foot of a ladder like
that which Jacob saw in his dream, and which leads up to the very throne of the Almighty. Jesus
taught that the kingdom of God might begin anywhere and at any time in any human heart. Note
what Matthew Arnold has called the secret and the method of Jesus. He says, The secret of Jesus
is that he who selfishly seeks his life shall lose it: he who throws it away for good and God
finds it. Do we need to go very deeply into human life to discover the profound truth of that
saying? Seek all over the world for good and happiness, and forget to look within, and you
do not find it. The kingdom of heaven is within. It is in the spirit, the temper of the heart,
the disposition, the life. And the secret of it is in cultivating love and truth and tenderness
and care, those things which bring us into intimate connection with which we mean when we say,
Be unselfish, and that in doing this we find our own souls. For the man who gives out of himself
love and tenderness and care, of necessity cultivates the qualities of love and tenderness
and care; and those are the ones which are the essence of all soul-building. And he who looks
outside for the greatest things of life misses them; while he who looks within, and cultivates
the spirit, finds God and happiness and truth.

This gospel, then, that the kingdom of God is at hand, is always ready to come, is the gospel
which we proclaim. And now I wish to extend that idea a little. The form in which Jesus held
his dream of human good has changed in the process of the centuries. We no longer expect a
miraculous revelation of a kingdom coming out of the heavens to abide on earth. The form of
it is changed; but the essence of it we hold still, the same perfect condition of men here
on earth and in the future which Jesus held and proclaimed.

Now let me hint to you a few of the elements that make up this hope for man which we liberals
proclaim everywhere as the gospel, the good news of the coming kingdom of God.

In the first place, we proclaim the possibility of human conquest over this earth. What do
I mean by that? I mean that man is able and he is showing that ability ultimately to control
the forces of this planet, and make them his servants. Within the last seventy-five years this
increasing conquest has changed the face of the planet. We now use water power not only, but
steam, electricity, magnetism. All these secret forces that thrill from planet to planet and
sun to sun we use as our household and factory drudges, our every-day servants. And it needs
only a little imagination, looking along the lines of past progress, to see the day when man
shall stand king of the earth. He shall make all these forces serve him. I believe that we
have only just begun this conquest. Already the wonders about us eclipse the wonders of novelist
and dreamer; and yet we have only begun to develop them. What follows from this? When we have
completed the conquest of the earth, when we have discovered God's laws of matter and force
and are able to keep them, it means the abolition of all unnecessary pain, unnecessary pain,
I say; for all that pain which is not beneficent, which is not inherent in the nature of things,
is remedial. And we preach the gospel, the coming of God's kingdom when pain shall be abolished,
and shall pass away.

Another step: We preach the gospel of the abolition of disease. We have already, in the few
civilized centres of the world, made the old epidemics simply impossible. They are easily controlled.
Nearly every one of those that rise to threaten Europe and America to-day come from the religious,
ignorant, wild fanaticism of Asia, beyond the range of our civilized control. The conditions
of disease are discoverable; and the day will come when, barring accidents here and there,
well-born people may calmly expect to live out their natural term of years. We preach this
gospel, then, of the kingdom of God in which disease shall no more exist.

We preach a gospel that promises a time when war shall be no more. At present wars are now
and then inevitable; but they are brutal, they are unspeakably horrible. And how any one who
uses the sympathetic imagination can rejoice, not over the victory, but over the destruction
of life and property which the victory entails, I cannot understand. We have reached a time
when civilized man no longer thinks he must right his wrong with his fists or a club or a knife
or a pistol. On the part of individuals we call this a reversion to barbarism. The time will
come, and we are advancing towards it, when it will be considered just as much a reversion
to barbarism on the part of families, states, nations, and when we shall substitute hearts
and brains for bruises and bullets in the settlement of the world's misunderstandings. We preach,
then, a gospel of the coming of the kingdom in which there shall be no more war. And then life
under the fair heavens will be sweet.

