CAPTAIN BLOOD

By Rafael Sabatini

CAPTAIN BLOOD His Odyssey

CONTENTS

     I.       THE MESSENGER
     II.      KIRKE'S DRAGOONS
     III.     THE LORD CHIEF JUSTICE
     IV.      HUMAN MERCHANDISE
     V.       ARABELLA BISHOP
     VI.      PLANS OF ESCAPE
     VII.     PIRATES
     VIII.    SPANIARDS
     IX.      THE REBELS-CONVICT
     X.       DON DIEGO
     XI.      FILIAL PIETY
     XII.     DON PEDRO SANGRE
     XIII.    TORTUGA
     XIV.     LEVASSEUR'S HEROICS
     XV.      THE RANSOM
     XVI.     THE TRAP
     XVII.    THE DUPES
     XVIII.   THE MILAGROSA
     XIX.     THE MEETING
     XX.      THIEF AND PIRATE
     XXI.     THE SERVICE OF KING JAMES
     XXII.    HOSTILITIES
     XXIII.   HOSTAGES
     XXIV.    WAR
     XXV.     THE SERVICE OF KING LOUIS
     XXVI.    M. DE RIVAROL
     XXVII.   CARTAGENA
     XXVIII.  THE HONOUR OF M. DE RIVAROL
     XXIX.    THE SERVICE OF KING WILLIAM
     XXX.     THE LAST FIGHT OF THE ARABELLA
     XXXI.    HIS EXCELLENCY THE GOVERNOR

CHAPTER I. THE MESSENGER

Peter Blood, bachelor of medicine and several other things besides, smoked a pipe and tended
the geraniums boxed on the sill of his window above Water Lane in the town of Bridgewater.

Sternly disapproving eyes considered him from a window opposite, but went disregarded. Mr.
Blood's attention was divided between his task and the stream of humanity in the narrow street
below; a stream which poured for the second time that day towards Castle Field, where earlier
in the afternoon Ferguson, the Duke's chaplain, had preached a sermon containing more treason
than divinity.

These straggling, excited groups were mainly composed of men with green boughs in their hats
and the most ludicrous of weapons in their hands. Some, it is true, shouldered fowling pieces,
and here and there a sword was brandished; but more of them were armed with clubs, and most
of them trailed the mammoth pikes fashioned out of scythes, as formidable to the eye as they
were clumsy to the hand. There were weavers, brewers, carpenters, smiths, masons, bricklayers,
cobblers, and representatives of every other of the trades of peace among these improvised
men of war. Bridgewater, like Taunton, had yielded so generously of its manhood to the service
of the bastard Duke that for any to abstain whose age and strength admitted of his bearing
arms was to brand himself a coward or a papist.

Yet Peter Blood, who was not only able to bear arms, but trained and skilled in their use,
who was certainly no coward, and a papist only when it suited him, tended his geraniums and
smoked his pipe on that warm July evening as indifferently as if nothing were afoot. One other
thing he did. He flung after those war-fevered enthusiasts a line of Horace--a poet for whose
work he had early conceived an inordinate affection:

"Quo, quo, scelesti, ruitis?"

And now perhaps you guess why the hot, intrepid blood inherited from the roving sires of his
Somersetshire mother remained cool amidst all this frenzied fanatical heat of rebellion; why
the turbulent spirit which had forced him once from the sedate academical bonds his father
would have imposed upon him, should now remain quiet in the very midst of turbulence. You realize
how he regarded these men who were rallying to the banners of liberty--the banners woven by
the virgins of Taunton, the girls from the seminaries of Miss Blake and Mrs. Musgrove, who--as
the ballad runs--had ripped open their silk petticoats to make colours for King Monmouth's
army. That Latin line, contemptuously flung after them as they clattered down the cobbled street,
reveals his mind. To him they were fools rushing in wicked frenzy upon their ruin.

You see, he knew too much about this fellow Monmouth and the pretty brown slut who had borne
him, to be deceived by the legend of legitimacy, on the strength of which this standard of
rebellion had been raised.

It had moved him to laughter, as had the further announcement that "James Duke of York did
first cause the said late King to be poysoned, and immediately thereupon did usurp and invade
the Crown."

He knew not which was the greater lie. For Mr. Blood had spent a third of his life in the Netherlands,
where this same James Scott--who now proclaimed himself James the Second, by the grace of God,
King, et cetera--first saw the light some six-and-thirty years ago, and he was acquainted with
the story current there of the fellow's real paternity. Far from being legitimate--by virtue
of a pretended secret marriage between Charles Stuart and Lucy Walter--it was possible that
this Monmouth who now proclaimed himself King of England was not even the illegitimate child
of the late sovereign. What but ruin and disaster could be the end of this grotesque pretension?
How could it be hoped that England would ever swallow such a Perkin? And it was on his behalf,
to uphold his fantastic claim, that these West Country clods, led by a few armigerous Whigs,
had been seduced into rebellion!

"Quo, quo, scelesti, ruitis?"

He laughed and sighed in one; but the laugh dominated the sigh, for Mr. Blood was unsympathetic,
as are most self-sufficient men; and he was very self-sufficient; adversity had taught him
so to be. A more tender-hearted man, possessing his vision and his knowledge, might have found
cause for tears in the contemplation of these ardent, simple, Nonconformist sheep going forth
to the shambles--escorted to the rallying ground on Castle Field by wives and daughters, sweethearts
and mothers, sustained by the delusion that they were to take the field in defence of Right,
of Liberty, and of Religion. For he knew, as all Bridgewater knew and had known now for some
hours, that it was Monmouth's intention to deliver battle that same night. The Duke was to
lead a surprise attack upon the Royalist army under Feversham that was now encamped on Sedgemoor.
Mr. Blood assumed that Lord Feversham would be equally well-informed, and if in this assumption
he was wrong, at least he was justified of it. He was not to suppose the Royalist commander
so indifferently skilled in the trade he followed.

Mr. Blood knocked the ashes from his pipe, and drew back to close his window. As he did so,
his glance travelling straight across the street met at last the glance of those hostile eyes
that watched him. There were two pairs, and they belonged to the Misses Pitt, two amiable,
sentimental maiden ladies who yielded to none in Bridgewater in their worship of the handsome
Monmouth.

Mr. Blood smiled and inclined his head, for he was on friendly terms with these ladies, one
of whom, indeed, had been for a little while his patient. But there was no response to his
greeting. Instead, the eyes gave him back a stare of cold disdain. The smile on his thin lips
grew a little broader, a little less pleasant. He understood the reason of that hostility,
which had been daily growing in this past week since Monmouth had come to turn the brains of
women of all ages. The Misses Pitt, he apprehended, contemned him that he, a young and vigorous
man, of a military training which might now be valuable to the Cause, should stand aloof; that
he should placidly smoke his pipe and tend his geraniums on this evening of all evenings, when
men of spirit were rallying to the Protestant Champion, offering their blood to place him on
the throne where he belonged.

If Mr. Blood had condescended to debate the matter with these ladies, he might have urged that
having had his fill of wandering and adventuring, he was now embarked upon the career for which
he had been originally intended and for which his studies had equipped him; that he was a man
of medicine and not of war; a healer, not a slayer. But they would have answered him, he knew,
that in such a cause it behoved every man who deemed himself a man to take up arms. They would
have pointed out that their own nephew Jeremiah, who was by trade a sailor, the master of a
ship--which by an ill-chance for that young man had come to anchor at this season in Bridgewater
Bay--had quitted the helm to snatch up a musket in defence of Right. But Mr. Blood was not
of those who argue. As I have said, he was a self-sufficient man.

He closed the window, drew the curtains, and turned to the pleasant, candle-lighted room, and
the table on which Mrs. Barlow, his housekeeper, was in the very act of spreading supper. To
her, however, he spoke aloud his thought.

"It's out of favour I am with the vinegary virgins over the way."

He had a pleasant, vibrant voice, whose metallic ring was softened and muted by the Irish accent
which in all his wanderings he had never lost. It was a voice that could woo seductively and
caressingly, or command in such a way as to compel obedience. Indeed, the man's whole nature
was in that voice of his. For the rest of him, he was tall and spare, swarthy of tint as a
gipsy, with eyes that were startlingly blue in that dark face and under those level black brows.
In their glance those eyes, flanking a high-bridged, intrepid nose, were of singular penetration
and of a steady haughtiness that went well with his firm lips. Though dressed in black as became
his calling, yet it was with an elegance derived from the love of clothes that is peculiar
to the adventurer he had been, rather than to the staid medicus he now was. His coat was of
fine camlet, and it was laced with silver; there were ruffles of Mechlin at his wrists and
a Mechlin cravat encased his throat. His great black periwig was as sedulously curled as any
at Whitehall.

Seeing him thus, and perceiving his real nature, which was plain upon him, you might have been
tempted to speculate how long such a man would be content to lie by in this little backwater
of the world into which chance had swept him some six months ago; how long he would continue
to pursue the trade for which he had qualified himself before he had begun to live. Difficult
of belief though it may be when you know his history, previous and subsequent, yet it is possible
that but for the trick that Fate was about to play him, he might have continued this peaceful
existence, settling down completely to the life of a doctor in this Somersetshire haven. It
is possible, but not probable.

He was the son of an Irish medicus, by a Somersetshire lady in whose veins ran the rover blood
of the Frobishers, which may account for a certain wildness that had early manifested itself
in his disposition. This wildness had profoundly alarmed his father, who for an Irishman was
of a singularly peace-loving nature. He had early resolved that the boy should follow his own
honourable profession, and Peter Blood, being quick to learn and oddly greedy of knowledge,
had satisfied his parent by receiving at the age of twenty the degree of baccalaureus medicinae
at Trinity College, Dublin. His father survived that satisfaction by three months only. His
mother had then been dead some years already. Thus Peter Blood came into an inheritance of
some few hundred pounds, with which he had set out to see the world and give for a season a
free rein to that restless spirit by which he was imbued. A set of curious chances led him
to take service with the Dutch, then at war with France; and a predilection for the sea made
him elect that this service should be upon that element. He had the advantage of a commission
under the famous de Ruyter, and fought in the Mediterranean engagement in which that great
Dutch admiral lost his life.

