"But there wud be plenty bit lassies to gie the bairn a hurl in a coach," said the Tailor.
"I dinna see hoo Mysie cudna get redd o' her bairn for an' oor noo an' than."

"But that wud juist be a dwang to the lassies, syne," answered Bandy.

"That's a thing I've often thocht aboot mysel'," says Sandy; "an' the only wey I cud mak' it
oot was that a'body in heaven 'ill be juist i' their prime.  I've thocht to mysel' that a'
the men folk wud be, say, aboot thirty-five 'ear auld, or atween that an' forty, an' the weemin
mibby fower or five 'ear younger." Nor was missing my stuff to follow both. Bumping this, I asked
the reason footman.

- Poor thing - he answered - and na malu, but the afternoon is almost
over, and we are entoavía Stork strips to measure your feet.

I was unsatisfied with the answer, but I insisted no further questions.

It took over an hour to cross the Harbour, which measures, for those online, nearly two leagues.
At the end of this tiring day, another surprise for me, new show, new ideas and new impressions.
A cliff in front, another right, another to the left ... Which of them would Chisco ...? For
the worse, by the first, the only one, although bad output was visible. This output was the result
of something like collapse of a huge wall built by Titans to scale back the sky. For one the
interstices of that heap of mountains dislocated, half and take a mossy of nut tree, gorse
and olive others, some of them have either robust or village of slender "whitebeams" (the tasty
tree and red fruit), with large red spots on the side, printed by the dry fern, and all part
of their skeletons rock showing through the tears in his clothes, was the road leading to the
end of my empecatada issue. But to get there we had to descend a slope that dizzy. Slide along the
sidewalk, slippery slabs as it, in ziszás, among thickets and sometimes shrubs, many uncovered
over the canyon, at the bottom, darkened by weeds on both sides, grumbled the waters of the streams
channeled homeless there to go to swell by capricious river flow paths that plunges our left and
across the Harbour.

Stumpie's an awfu' peppery budy, an' though the Smith leuch when he made his joke at the tailor's
precentin', Mertin got as raised as a wasp, and he yattered back--"You'll maybe be better aff
i' the ither place, wi' your auld horse shune an' your smiddy reek, ye auld acowder----"

"Toot, toot, Mertin; dinna get angry," says the Smith.  "It was but a joke, man.  I've nae
doot that I wud hardly be i' the right place amon' angels an' sic like billies.  But I tell
ye what it is, I maun wirk for my livin' in heaven as weel's here, if ever I get there. 

Before leaving her house went into the doctor, who was taking the opportunity to greet the almost
daily visit to my uncle did, particularly since his last serious illness. He was a young man who
would walk in their thirties, not very stout, but stout complexion; short hair and beard,
black and strong, looking strong, but not harshly, nice face and voice of words very sober, clean,
loose-fitting, modest dress, and a native of a village of coastal Nansa. This was all that he
knew at that time. His visit was brief, and very graciously said goodbye, leaving very pleased
that I find in Tablanca, more by what was written on the face and mediquillo air, that the weights
their clothes made by my uncle to introduce me.
  We'd been argeyin' that muckle aboot eternity,
that we'd forgotten aboot the time a'thegither.

V.

MISTRESS MIKAVER'S TEA PARTY.

I'll swag, mind ye, but the men's no' far wrang when they say that weemin have most dreedfu'
lang tongues. The
last part of my journey, night and raining, dark corridors of the house, the kitchen so big,
so dark at first, then look strange in light of the huge bonfire fur and things of my uncle, the
woman appeared suddenly gray, the dark moorland dining room, explored the dim light of lantern
four glasses clouded by scab; the silence of "outside" ... worse than silence: a distant sound
and intermittent rough, something which put fear into the valiant Don Quixote chest one night in
near Sierra Morena, and the other silent house stopped talking about My uncle had impressed
me badly.
 But, of coorse, I never bather my heid aboot what
wey fowk's dressed.

Mistress Mollison was juist as assorted as uswal.  She'd as muckle on as wudda dressed twa
or three folk, an' she was ill-cled at that.

"What'll hae come o' her seal jeckit?" says Mistress Kenawee to me, wi' a nudge, when we gaed
ben the hoose to get oor things aff; but I said naething, for, the fac' o' the maitter is,
I thocht Mistress Kenawee a fell sicht hersel'.  There was a great target o' black braid hingin'
frae the tail o' her goon, an' the back seam o' her body was riven in twa-three places.  An'
if the truth be tell'd, I wasna very braw mysel'.  Thinks I to mysel', as I've heard the Gairner's
wife say, them that hae riven breeks had better keep their seats.

Gairner Winton's wife was there, lookin' as happy an' impident as uswal; an' Ribekka Steein
cam' in juist as me an' Mistress Kenawee were gettin' set doon amon' the rest. And die as satisfied as if jartura the
world die of you know, as has happen to me tomorrow. Believe me, son, the less burden cravings
out of this life is more passable the path of another. Some mine Jalla digging in a corner of
his garden, and some people does not give her half the land stirring Christendom. Now, you tell
me who is more fortunate of the two and more worthy of envy ... Gravel! and go on with the story,
as I give leave for the atajaderos. Where we stayed with her? What else do you want to know?

-
For the moment - I replied, astonished at his former vivacity of
imagination and freedom of "Peak", which seemed incompatible with
the condition that you had - if the landscape widens beyond the gap
where the river seeps.

- On the contrary - he answered -: as you
bend the corner, the peaks again encalabrinar beside the river, as
soon as one side to another, if not both at once.

Widths of them are not even the royal road: half day of shooting, water down a horse good feet,
a walk, speak, and short ... In front of that gap have that other of the right hand, which gets
a strip that will end in a point in there.

Do you see? at the foot of the mountain above stained green. As for the alleys is choice but to
go climbing up the brambles ... In short, man, get that in every shatters you see a mountain of
them, there is a path where these people go through the portal as of the church and walk and take
the air and please the eye and healthy unemployed men chest, like you. You'll see, piece of
junk! and see what is good.

- I hope so - I answered untruthfully than I thought -. And tell you - I added pointing at the same time
with your finger there - what does that green spot in which I I had noticed before you mentioned
it to me?

- Oh! - Contestóme raising both arms at once - that's the richness of the place, friend! That is the
"Prao-Council" here, because there are other people who have theirs appropriate, but not like
ours. Quia! Pispajo as you want!

Is every one of these neighbors: a wealth of grass that is shared "by adra" every year. You'll
see, you'll see what pilgrimage is assembled on the day of harvest, if you take here the first
arriving in August ...

- But how in the world - asked truly amazed at what my uncle told
me - is can mow in that ravine, and down into the valley what it is
mow, much less climb there to mow and pick it up?

  "Tak' a cat o' your ain kind an' it'll
no' scart ye, my mither used to say; an' I'm shure I've seen that come true of'en, of'en."

"They tell me," said Mistress Kenawee, "that Moses gie's her seven-an'-twinty shillin's every
week to keep her hoose wi'.  What she does wi't it beats me to mak' oot.  Mony a mither wud
be gled o' the half o't i' the noo, an' wud feed an' deed half a dizzen bairns on't."

"But Moses is a fooshinless, hingin'-aboot kind o' a whaup," says I. "The blame's mibby no'
a' on ae side o' the hoose.  There's lots o' your braw billies ye wudna need to follow ower
their ain doorstap. When there's din an' dirt i' the hoose, the wife aye gets the dirdum. Moses
has ower muckle to say aboot the wife.  She may be ill, but he's no' the pairty to saw't like
neep seed ower a' the countryside."

"You're richt there, Bawbie," said Mistress Winton.  "I've tell'd Moses that till's face afore
the day.  They're scarce o' noos that tells their father was hanged." My uncle tried everything not like anything, and I satisfy my need, more
than appetite, twelve hours, almost as much as the sight of abundant food, as the parvidades
that they took ... But Don Pedro Nolasco! ... I had no measure their calo stomach vulture
devoured up to the eyes, and much that does not fit in the mouth while worked his throat, Corriale
in rivulets on the outside to sink under the sobarba between leather jacket, or mixed dropwise
with the filth of the vest.

They spoke little on the table, and this was most recently my uncle to say insulting glutton, who
did not answer, nor do I think I heard him, and to ponder his surprise at what picky I came across
him in the dining room, and especially by the 'plan' for my supper, so on, I drew him. I could
not understand the good lord that a boy of my age and my health, ate as he put forward at any time of
day or night. "Rich and hearty" was the motto of good men eat lavish
coat of my uncle.

Walking into this and "belch" and the giant for not having the stomach thing that more juice
entertainment, a bell was heard hourglass toward the more obscure and remote from the room.

- Half past ten! - Said my uncle turning in the bank -. I think it's time leave you in peace.
The trip will be well ground bones, and you'll want to overthrow in bed. Otherwise you would not
believe: the labyrinth of cattle down, and the gathering of up after praying the Rosary, rare
is the night we went to bed early ... And You see, you'll see, pispajo!
how we live here, but montunos and poor, the wealthy use City ...
"So entendístelo, Marmitón?

Well, Jorrios! While you're jartu, and his house which does.

Levantámonos all thanked the priest, and faithfully fulfilled We replied,
and went with Don Pedro Nolasco, not without making me see the stars
again with the handshakes I got for dismissal.

Shortly thereafter, I locked myself in my room, paseábame over him trying to think in many things
without actually thinking based on anything I do not know if it really
did not want, or because he could not think otherwise.

With this darkness in my brain and the continuous hum River in Glen,
I finally feel sleepy, and went to bed.

Clean white clothes like the sun was my bed, but how cold ... and how hard I found it!

V

However, I slept all night in one fell swoop, but dreaming a lot and many things each more extravagant.
I remember that I dreamed of the bear the Port, with gorges and ravines they had no end, and so
narrow throat, I could not even walk by them in sideways. Persisted in fleeing the fierce pass
that I was swaying on his feet back and licking his nose, forcing both wedge my body, which stirred
the mountains at their bases and ranged up there, high up! the rocky peaks, and even collapsed
many of them on me, but without hurting myself. I also dreamed my uncle dancing in the kitchen
by the fire, some women seguidillas gray singing ringing a large
skillet; and then with Don Pedro Nolasco, who ate raw calves and birch
logs and rocks Bardales granite, while they were eating up to me,
fiber to fiber and little by little, the Boredom and Melancholia,
one of the most horrible marriage, who lived at the bottom of an abyss
end anywhere.

Perhaps because that was my last dream of the night, was so sad I wake up in the morning. Because
it was really sad! But I slept with wary curiosity to know sight of land they had voluntarily
bury, and feeling suddenly revive that strong desire to see a bit of light filtering through
the cracks of the doors, I rose quickly, Laverne shivering in the
shelter envolvíme thickest of the various I had at my disposal, and
looked at the same balcony that I had looked at night.

"You wasna in that wey o' thinkin' when Dossie Millar, the skulemester, used to come an' coort
you, when you was up-by at the Provost's," said Ribekka to Mysie.  "If it hadna been for the
lid o' the water-barrel gien wey yon nicht, you michta been skelpin' Dossie's bairns the day--an'
your ain too."

We a' took a hearty lauch at Ribekka's ootburst.

"Eh, that was a pliskie," said Mistress Kenawee.  "Dossie got a gey drookin' that nicht.  They
said it was ane o' the coachmen that was efter Mysie that sawed the lid half throo; an' when
Dossie climbed up to hae his crack wi' Mysie at the winda, in he gaed up to the lugs. The story
was that Mysie fair lost her chance wi' him, wi' burstin' oot lauchin' when he climbed oot
o' the barrel soakin'-dreepin' throo an' throo.  He never got ower't, for it got oot aboot,
an' the very bairns at the skule began to ca' him the Drookit Dominie.  He got a job at the
Druckendub skule, an' never lookit Mysie's airt again."

"You're grand crackers," said Mysie.  "Ye ken a hankie mair than ever happened; but, the man
that cheats me ance, shame fa' him; gin he cheat me twice, shame fa' me.  That's my wey o'
lookin' at things."

This kind o' raggin' at ane anither gaed on for the feck o' the forenicht, an' we were juist
i' the thick o' a' tirr-wirr aboot the best cure for the kink-host, when the doonstairs door
gaed clash to the wa', an' in anither meenit in banged Sandy in his sark sleeves, an' his hair
fleein' like a bundle o' ravelled threed. 

With the taste of this news and these "assurances" without a visible star in the sky the earth in
the most closed and dark nights, and starting to drizzle, I plunge into the canyon left that
opened a short distance from the sanctuary, commending my soul God and my life instinct that
led me quadruped.

And so I, not knowing how or where or at what time, the end of my
journey sighed memorable.

III

A very original Chisco whistle, the beat of a big dog soon after, a dim and wandering appeared suddenly,
the sudden arrest of my horse, after the last couple of slips with all four legs on lastrales "hung"
on the sidewalk, around black bodies of light and sound of harsh voices and different "strings",
my horse down difficult, to which my body seemed joined by the losses of the day and the rigors
of the weather; fall on my breast and between arms wrapped in rough clothes that smelled of smoke
from cooking and feel of a big hand hit me affectionately ribs while that oppressed my arms
against my chest, my name many times, by one of my ears, a chipped mouth, my entry later, and
almost in tow, in an astragalus or very dark lobby, my climb up a ladder rungs something spongy
and trembling stringers, my income, to finish it in another dark abyss, my transit through carried
hand, like a blind man, by a person who kept on telling me, between gasps of breath and strong
threats of cough, nice things and certainly believe he would leave the heart, warning me on the
way to where I had to lead my people, or lifting one foot where desirable or step with certain
precautions, without ceasing to ask cries and exclamations of the depths, a light that never appear,
because, as I learned later, the servants walked into the porch struggling with the baggage and
horses, and suddenly a little light on the right, and entry into other funds moor very black with
a fire in one of its front ends, then accommodating to oft-repeated instances of my driver, in
the best seat of those who were around the fire, and put him, pushing
and coughing, to amass the scattered embers, and repriming with two
large, dry and copudas escajo bushes.

This reduces all the memories I have of my arrival "of my biggest solar." The exact notion that
surrounded me there in those moments, and even of my own, not I catch up to the heat of the huge
fire that resulted from the handling of my business uncle, loosen my numb members to circulate
my blood turned to his usual regularly, and revived her and enquiciaron
all components of the hindered machine of my ideas.

Lord and master, and of them and started to guide, I noticed that the kitchen was huge, and
its black walls, gleaming like polished jet, that the fire plumes whose licking flames rose housewarming
thick coated flakes of soot, to exceed of the chimney wide, was leaning against a bench with
vault, which was the jornía or ashtray, on a spacious, tiled plateau, one of the edges are
hardened wood, and less than one foot above the floor general, I support my people, which I chair,
big and armbands rights, still, to shut down the entire perimeter of the plateau banks and
bare wooden stools and very bright for the use, as well as the chair and this home warmer sat
at the head of the kitchen. Then I view all and each of the numerous and unrelated junk, appliances
and gizmos that were in that enclosure, and up to two ollon interested me and three clay pots, which
coverts shaking between the impulse froth boiling beneath them, leaning against the fire and footwear
with individual rubble behind, finally, and when he had nothing to look in the kitchen and accessories,
I set all my attention on my uncle, who was by my side, or as fronting me as it allowed the
fire before we were both seeking the word and filling of loving care. Who knows what whim unconscious,
how evolution discordant, was born that procedure so rude to the most interesting and, of course,
the most esteemed and respectable to me, between what he had, at that time, the scope of my
eyes! ...

They were very young and hazel of my relative, and looked with the vivacity of the fox, a the
shade of gray eyebrows, very thick and bristly, the nose aquiline, the mouth, never or closed
entirely quiet, talkative as the eyes, but quiet, the complexion pale and rugged, the chin,
round and somewhat prominent below the lower lip, ears, formidable and very hairy in the vicinity of
the ears, head, fairly flat back, and hair (Discovered in the moment examine me, for having removed
the cap Don Celso home that is ordinarily covered, both hands to spend it, which he liked,
as shown below) of the same caste and same color as the eyebrows, falling into sturdy locks
on the front, and without visible signs of baldness upon their heights.
  "Dod," he saya to Stumpie Mertin at the corner o' the
street "that man Bowden's the queerest jeeger ever I cam across.  He cam' thrash doon on the
kribstane there i' the noo, an' when I ran anower to see if he was ony waur, he juist gae me
impidence, an' said he cud come doon aff his cairt ony wey he liket. Did you ever hear the like?"

"He's a queer chield, Sandy," said Stumpie.  "There's some folk thinks he wants tippence i'
the shillin', but it's my opinion there's aboot fourteenpence i' the shillin' o' him.  He's
auld wecht; mind I tell you."

That's exactly my ain opinion, d'ye ken; an' it akinda astonished me to hear Stumpie speakin'
sense for ance in's life.  He's uswally juist a haverin' doit.

But that's no' what I was genna tell you aboot.  Sandy and Bandy Wobster have had a terriple
fortnicht's colligin' thegither.  Every ither nicht they've been ether i' the washin'-hoose
or i' the garret; an' Sandy's been gaen aboot scorin' a' the doors wi' kauk, an' makin' rings
an' lines like railroads an' so on a' ower them.

"What's this you an' Bandy's up till noo?" I says to Sandy the ither mornin', juist when we
were sittin' at oor brakfast.  "I howp noo, Sandy," I says, says I, "that you'll keep clear
o' the eediotikal pliskies you played lest winter."

"You can wadger your henmist bodle on that," says Sandy, as he took a rive ooten a penny lafe.
"There's to be ither kind o' wark on this winter.  Bandy an' me's been busy at the gomitry.
Man, Bawbie, it's raley very interestin'.  You mind I spak to you aboot some o' the triangles
an' things that it tells you aboot afore?"

"Weel, look here, Sandy," I says, "I notice you've been scorin' every door aboot the place
wi' your triangles, an' they're juist the very shape o' the ane Ekky Hebbirn played in the
flute band; an', as I tolled you afore, I'm no' to hae ane o' them aboot the hoose.  Preserve
me, man, you'll get as muckle music oot o' the taings, an' mair."

"Keep on your dicky, 'oman," says Sandy.  "You're clean aff the scent a'thegither.  There's
nae music aboot gomitry triangles ava.  They've naething to do wi' music. But in anda beam
woodworm; asegúrotelo I feel that gnawing no time to rest. (Here a threat of whooping cough.)
Did not I tell you? For the light you have now. This, this is the ujano I just rogue! ... For God
is God and what He wants to be, and what should be ... So let the point to treat it as a chance,
and move on to more specific urgent now.

With this began to unload on me a hailstorm of comments and questions about are spliced ​​to
each other, without leaving me little space to eat a response. If it was I stopped, if it was
low, whether it was more or less like the portraits that kept him if more handsome, if uglier,
if "left" more to my father that "the Andalusian"

"Hoo d'ye mak' that oot?" says I.  "Michty me, man, if the trams were nae bigger gin the cairt,
hoo wud Donal' get in atween them?  The thing's ridic'lous."

"You're no' seein't," says Sandy.  "Tak' the back door o' the cairt, for instance. In short, an eternity.

If in the meantime had been in me a natural inclination, any ability of making even pleasurable
to many men, who are villagers, country life, thank goodness, but
for Unfortunately mine, all in all I was missing.  Ony bairn kens that, gomitry or no gomitry."

