It will have been observed that there is in these programmes, in addition to the element of
mental disorder and to the element of the fatuous, which have been animadverted upon, also
a very ugly element of dishonesty. In reality the very kernel of the militant suffrage movement
is the element of immorality.

There is here not only immorality in the ends which are in view, but also in the methods adopted
for the attainment of those ends.

We may restrict ourselves to indicating wherein lies the immorality of the methods.

There is no one who does not discern that woman in her relations to physical force stands in
quite a different position to man.

Out of that different relation there must of necessity shape itself a special code of ethics
for woman. And to violate that code must be for woman immorality.

So far as I have seen, no one in this controversy has laid his finger upon the essential point
in the relations of woman to physical violence.

It has been stated--and in the main quite truly stated--that woman in the mass cannot, like
man, back up her vote by bringing physical force into play.

But the woman suffragist here counters by insisting that she as an individual may have more
physical force than an individual man.

And it is quite certain--and it did not need suffragist raids and window-breaking riots to
demonstrate it--that woman in the mass can bring a certain amount of physical force to bear.

The true inwardness of the relation in which woman stands to physical force lies not in the
question of her having it at command, but in the fact that she cannot put it forth without
placing herself within the jurisdiction of an ethical law. 

Oct. 6-- It is announced that German airship help up in drop British car; commander and crew
decorated by Kaiser. Oct.
7-- London insures against damage from Zeppelin swoop as air fleet
is prepared at Wilhelmshaven; Incompetent aviators set fire to German
aeroplanes. It belongs to those unwritten, and unassailable, and irreversible commandments of
religion, [Greek 1], which we suddenly and mysteriously become aware of when we see them violated.

[1 From Antigone by Sophocles; "the unwritten and unassailable statutes given to us by the
gods." Sir Almroth had it in the original Greek with Greek fonts.]

The law which the militant suffragist has violated is among the ordinances of that code which
forbade us even to think of employing our native Indian troops against the Boers; which brands
it as an ignominy when a man leaves his fellow in the lurch and saves his own life; and which
makes it an outrage for a man to do violence to a woman.

To violate any ordinance of that code is more dishonourable than to transgress every statutory law.

We see acknowledgment of it in the fact that even the uneducated man in the street resents
it as an outrage to civilisation when he sees a man strike a blow at a woman.

But to the man who is committing the outrage it is a thing simply unaccountable that any one
should fly out at him.

In just such a case is the militant suffragist. She cannot understand why any one should think
civilisation is outraged when she scuffles in the street mud with a policeman.

If she asks for an explanation, it perhaps behoves a man to supply it.

Up to the present in the whole civilised world there has ruled a truce of God as between man
and woman. That truce is based upon the solemn covenant that within the frontiers of civilisation
(outside them of course the rule lapses) the weapon of physical force may not be applied by
man against woman; nor by woman against man.

Under this covenant, the reign of force which prevails in the world without comes to an end
when a man enters his household.

Under this covenant that half of the human race which most needs protection is raised up above
the waves of violence.

Within the terms of this compact everything that woman has received from man, and everything
man receives from woman, is given as a free gift.

Again, under this covenant a full half of the programme of Christianity has been realised;
and a foundation has been laid upon which it may be possible to build higher; and perhaps finally
in the ideal future to achieve the abolition of physical violence and war.

And it is this solemn covenant, the covenant so faithfully kept by man, which has been violated
by the militant suffragist in the interest of her morbid, stupid, ugly, and dishonest programmes.

Is it wonder if men feel that they have had enough of the militant suffragist, and that the
State would be well rid of her if she were crushed under the soldiers' shields like the traitor
woman at the Tarpeian rock [in ancient Rome where traitors were killed]?

We may turn now to that section of woman suffragists--one is almost inclined to doubt whether
it any longer exists--which is opposed to all violent measures, though it numbers in its ranks
women who are stung to the quick by the thought that man, who will concede the vote to the
lowest and most degraded of his own sex, withholds it from "even the noblest woman in England."

When that excited and somewhat pathetic appeal is addressed to us, we have only to consider
what a vote really gives.

The parliamentary vote is an instrument--and a quite astonishly disappointing instrument it
is--for obtaining legislation; that is, for directing that the agents of the State shall in
certain defined circumstances bring into application the weapon of physical compulsion.

Further, the vote is an instrument by which we give to this or that group of statesmen anthority
to supervise and keep in motion the whole machinery of compulsion.

To take examples.  A vote cast in favour of a Bill for the prohibition of alcohol--if we could
find opportunity for giving a vote on such a question--would be a formal expression of our
desire to apply, through the agency of the paid servants of the State, that same physical compulsion
which Mrs. Carrie Nation put into application in her "bar-smashing" crusades.

And a vote which puts a Government into office in a country where murder is punishable by death
is a vote which, by agency of the hangman, puts the noose round the neck of every convicted
murderer.

So that the difference between voting and direct resort to force is simply the difference between
exerting physical violence in person, and exerting it through the intermediary of an agent
of the State.

The thing, therefore, that is withheld from "the noblest woman in England," while it is conceded
to the man who is lacking in nobility of character, is in the end only an instrument by which
she might bring into application physical force.

When one realises that that same noblest woman of England would shrink from any personal exercise
of violence, one would have thought that it would have come home to her that it is not precisely
her job to commission a man forcibly to shut up a public-house, or to hang a murderer.

One cannot help asking oneself whether, if she understood what a vote really means, the noblest
woman in England would still go on complaining of the bitter insult which is done to her in
withholding the vote.

But the opportunist--the practical politician, as he calls himself--will perhaps here intervene,
holding some such language as this:--"Granting all you say, granting, for the sake of argument,
that the principle of giving votes to woman is unsound, and that evil must ultimately come
of it, how can you get over the fact that no very conspicuous harm has resulted from woman
suffrage in the countries which have adopted it? And can any firm reasons be rendered for the
belief that the giving of votes to women in England would be any whit more harmful than in
the Colonies?"

A very few words will supply the answer. 

Aug. 19-- Massacre on Prague of human uprising.

Aug. 25-- Troops see massing with italian frontier; Government will join war to Japan; passports
sent to Ambassador.

Aug. 27-- Fortification of Vienna begun; children
at czech Unwritten handed after Switzerland.

The first two aspects of the question have already in this controversy been adequately dealt
with. There remains the last issue.

>From the point of view of this issue the conditions which we have to deal with in this country
are the absolute antithesis of those ruling in any of the countries and States which have adopted
woman suffrage.

When woman suffrage was adopted in these countries it was adopted in some for one reason, in
others for another. In some it was adopted because it appealed to the doctrinaire [theoretical]
politician as the proper logical outcome of a democratic and Socialistic policy. In others
it was adopted because opportunist politicians saw in it an instrument by which they might
gain electioneering advantages. So much was this the case that it sometimes happened that the
woman's vote was sprung upon a community which was quite unprepared and indifferent to it.

The cause of woman suffrage was thus in the countries of which we speak neither in its inception
nor in its realisation a question of revolt of woman against the oppression of man. It had,
and has, no relation to the programmes of the militant suffragists as set out at the outset
of this letter.

By virtue of this, all the evils which spring from the embroiling of man and woman have in
the countries in question been conspicuously absent.

Instead of seeing himself confronted by a section of embittered and hostile women voters which
might at any time outvote him and help to turn an election, man there sees his women folk voting
practically everywhere in accordance with his directions, and lending him a hand to outvote
his political opponent.

Whether or no such voting is for the good of the common weal is beside our present question.
But it is clearly an arrangement which leads to amity and peace between a man and his womenkind,
and through these to good-will towards all women.

In England everything is different.

If woman suffrage comes in here, it will have come as a surrender to a very violent feminist
agitation--an agitation which we have traced back to our excess female population and the associated
abnormal physiological conditions.

If ever Parliament concedes the vote to woman in England, it will be accepted by the militant
suffragist, not as an eirenicon, but as a victory which she will value only for the better
carrying on of her fight a outrance [to the bitter end] against the oppression and injustice
of man.

A conciliation with hysterical revolt is neither an act of peace; nor will it bring peace.

Nor would the conferring of the vote upon women carry with it any advantages from the point
of view of finding a way out of the material entanglements in which woman is enmeshed, and
thus ending the war between man and woman.

One has only to ask oneself whether or not it would help the legislator in remodelling the
divorce or the bastardy laws if he had conjoined with him an unmarried militant suffragist
as assessor.

Peace will come again.  It will come when woman ceases to believe and to teach all manner of
evil of man despitefully. It will come when she ceases to impute to him as a crime her own
natural disabilities, when she ceases to resent the fact that man cannot and does not wish
to work side by side with her. And peace will return when every woman for whom there is no
room in England seeks "rest" beyond the sea, "each one in the house of her husband," and when
the woman who remains in England comes to recognise that she can, without sacrifice of dignity,
give a willing subordination to the husband or father, who, when all is said and done, earns
and lays up money for her.

A. E. WRIGHT. March 27, 1912.