THE FIFTH ACE

by

DOUGLAS GRANT

Frontispiece by George W. Gage

[Frontispiece: "Peach of a town," he repeated with added conviction]

Grosset & Dunlap Publishers New York

Copyright, 1918, by W. J. Watt & Company

CONTENTS

CHAPTER

     I. GENTLEMAN GEOFF'S BILLIE
    II. A SUPERFLUOUS KNIGHT-ERRANT
   III. THE COMING OF EL NEGRITO
    IV. Sieur John "- and his words
that had been slowly, gradually just as a howling - "before a few hours, I awoke with a heavy
head, there it was with me and I repented like a Fool that I am in rush, the wild dogs had gesetzet
you on your heels, - but since Bas' Ursel I kept the scraps, they pulled you out of your bellows,
- the Hoellenelement! I regret's just that my work pieces such beasts waned! "

Once again I tried to come to words, and as the squire was silent, I thought he also would hear.
"Junker Wulf," I said, "it's true, I'm not a gentleman, but I'm not a little man in my art and
hope it also probably again the bigger gleichzuthun, so I ask you geziementlich, goeth Your Sister
Catherine consort to me - "

Since the word stopped me in the mouth. From his pale face stared at me the eyes of the old image
of, a shrill laugh hit me in the ear shot - then I fell and heard only, as I am the sword,
which I thought had almost pulled ohn, clanking from the hand fell
to the ground.

It was many weeks later that I even paler in the sunshine on a bench before the last house of
the village sat, with dull eyes hinueberschauend to the forest to demonstrate the far side of
the mansion was. My foolish eyes looked always again the point where,
as I vorstellete, Catharine little room over there on the already
autumnal yellow tops look, because of their own, I had no knowledge.  She was tall with a lithe slenderness that betokened well-poised
strength rather than fragility.  Masses of sloe-black hair waved beneath the broad brim of
her sombrero, but her skin was unbelievably fair and the eyes she lifted to his in frank scrutiny
were the deep blue of a wood violet.

The young man caught his breath as she turned and started across the plaza, walking with long,
free, swinging strides.

"Peach of a town," he repeated, with added conviction.  "All to the good!"

The Calle Rivera dwindled into a dusty, white, winding road, straggling, flower-choked gardens
replaced the city blocks and gave way in turn to haciendas whose flat fertile acres teemed
with the luscious harvest. 

Content.

   

   1. Introduction. Usefulness of the postal system.

   a. complaints about the same.

   

   b. General instruction to avoid Verdrüßlichkeiten it.

   

   2. From Travel by ordinary post.

   

   a. By payment of the passenger money.

b. Refers to the excessive
load.

c. - Tips.

d. - the baggage of the traveler.

   
      3.

   From traveling by express mail.

   
      a. How much extra post-horses had to take.

b. Of extra-coach coaches
or chaises & c.

c. Why do you have to pay for waiting time.

   
      

   4. Of shipments in the mail.
      

a. From Frank Irishman of letters, where necessary, and if it does
not required.

b. About the price of postage's.

c. From the estimate
of double letters, court documents, Manuscripts and the like

d. From
the incoming letters, or what is the reception of the letters must
watch.

e. How to proceed with letters, which will not redeem you,
added.

   
      

   5.

   Rules for shipments of money and packages in the mail.

   
      a. How to make money pack in letters, packages, bags, barrels, & c.
and must keep.

b. The correct drawing of the packages.

c. What to
watch while receiving cash letters and packages.

d. How to behave
when our things at the post , Leave 'ears or damaged.

e. Whether
ears and laughed as letters go, and how they had to search it.

f.
From Recommandiren of the letters.

g. What use is the Cito on the
letters?

h. Because of reclaiming aufgegebner letters.

i. By Poste
restante letters and things.

k. Whether and how one could Geldvorschüße
obtained from the Post.

   

   

   6. From Estaffetten.

   

   a. What is a relay race?

   

b. What you have to send off a relay race and reception to observe
the same?

c. How much does a relay race.

   

   
      7. By couriers.

   

a. From riding and driving Couriers.

b. How fast can a courier ride.

c.
What he has to pay.

   

   

   8.

From post office money.

   

   a. Why does it have to be paid.

b. Who has to give money station?

c.
Punishment of those who pass a station without Station fee corrected.

d.
From wage and hackney coachmen, and whether it is cheaper to them
to use instead of the post.

e. From the Post constraint.

   
      

   Introduction.
      

   The postal service is now so extensive and weitgreiffende Institute,
which everywhere Send without doubt the most convenient and cheapest
opportunity to travel and = = = something to make = presents that
not a man easily communicating with other people in connection of
the same can do without, or of another agent will operate at that
intention.

It is common ground one of the most useful inventions and beneficent
institutions.

The post office can procure not only the trade and professional Publiko daily advantages and gives
thousands of people Manage, but they also serve higher purposes for all humanity. The postal system is
been since its establishment, an excellent means of our carrying current culture, science and
education to help spread by a day the scholars, was used to communicate findings and the genius
of humanity prepare for the victory. -

Nevertheless, this institution of a large portion of the public, even by those people which they
can procure daily benefit, not being duly appreciated and respected. At least gives it is not always trouble
enough, the facilities that are generally and in the various Countries especially, are made in the postal
system, and thus its operation and conservation is to get to know
and observe.

The other hand we hear almost daily complaints and complaints = the Postal Services and Post
= servant, therefore so many Verdrüßlichkeiten result, quarrels and disputes between the Postofficianten
and travelers and those who with the Post something send or receive. arises from ignorance of the post
mechanism often Annoyance and loss.

I think not, therefore, a useless business to take over if I try, here are some = Communicate rules
and messages, which you must follow to anger and loss at the to avoid post-=. - These rules
are, but they may be only generally, and I can of course not peculiar to the postal services
of any State or Place, especially taking into consideration.

However, since the institutions in the postal system, as currently obtain in Europe, is essentially
strong resemblance have, then is one with the compliance of these instructions pretty much by
all countries, where items are and where one wants to use it, can help out.

For people who are not naturally inclined to quarrels and to all you of they asked to put up
and give without question and do what you require, or what have the gift, with others occurring
on doubts and misunderstandings on a light to unite nature, it requires no great measure those
rules.

Alone gives such people there is not much and you can not demand it, that all who travel by
mail, or something Send and receive at occurring doubts, without obtaining information, therefore,
, Especially since one has to admit to reassure that both sides of the Postofficianten than from
The part of travelers and shippers, errors can be caused and committed. - However I have the
same temporarily, as a set a basic rule that one, as we have morals and Crave worldly wisdom,
all must try to endure apparent inequity and to soothe, if you live in comfort, and therefore also
different and more peaceful in the mail want to have intercourse. For avenge any apparent unfairness
immediately on the spot and to want to fight and anyone in this department are currently pushing-doubt
to require the satisfaction of postal servants Education has to get used to still greater Inconveniences
and annoyances.

Instead, it's better and more appropriate in all such cases, where one is at the post insulted,
or bevortheilt believes is incompatible with the officiant in oral Discussione involved, namely,
if the law does not appear on the page and clear the error has the day is, but our complaints
in writing and set up either the Postdirectorio of the country or
the government to give themselves.

Of these authorities will certainly Enlightenment of the incident and satisfaction made, everything
can not ask to be equitable. It never mind if such a declaration, or satisfaction, not at the
moment Point will be announced, but is only with time. It has since been so but this gained much
that one has avoided trouble and vexation, which for the health and satisfaction no small gain. The
head post offices and provincial governments but are they connected the attached properly to investigate
complaints and decide which is also of the same certainly with greater vigor and success happens
as a by individuo quarrel with the postal servants. If, however, would also align in this
way (as is sometimes the may be the case) so of course there is nothing left, if we do not
supreme judicial will seek help, as preliminary complaints to the public even for judging and Nachachtung
submitted. -

In general, however, must in all cases where we believe to have complaints against the post,
, Remember that the act under the direction and instruction must Postofficiant and that he did not
would dare easy to proceed to rule and instruction and by bread and honor to put at risk. 

He
acts according to his instruction, so is our complaint against him away from himself and we already have
to put up with us after the facilities comfortable, which at intention
in this place of postal operations are done if we are not against
itself to war can draw.

But he is wrongful, it is better, our complaints to get his superiors as to engage with him in
squabbling. It is about known Diess, that in most countries, the laws in this regard are fairly
determined and that not easy to see a government with their servants through the fingers, but
the passenger and let correspondents full justice will.

In some countries, the stately Servant that handles utensil with strangers in collision, only
to strict and often strangers very favorable. -

* * * * *

I will now present the first place = = rules which you observe during trips to the post = = be,
and then secondly = = instructions = what in dispatches and in the acceptance of things = by
mail applicable.

From traveling through the mail.

                   

If you want to travel with the = ordinary = Post; it is be-ing necessary to inquire on what day
and what time of day and hour the mail to the place where to travel
in Spain intends abgehet.

This is easily one of the calendar or from the so-called post Table
of the place or country experience can.

It is ridiculous enough, but the case but often occurs one, that there are people who imagine what
is that once they are in the post-house on a journey To report or submit a letter, also include
a post office travel to the place where to it, or Send the letter to be desired, suspended, or
had to leave. Such people not only gives in the so-called low, but also in the higher ranks. And
therefore, one can already , Remove that facilities of the postal service are not as well known
as they deserve and that the effort to make them known not useless, but is meritorious. -

If you have fixed the day of departure, so you have to after the post-house of the day or at
least a few hours before, and there gives the Postofficianten seen; that you wish to travel
to that place with the ordinary post = =, and it asks for a Space
on the car with the question: how much should be paid for it? - Then
she nursed to be done by the postal servants the question whether
one = with = or = without baggage = (with a suitcase, or baggage &
c. or not like) travel?

This question is therefore necessary to because the passenger tax per person, which suitcases
or other luggage, take with you, naturally Way is higher than for those traveling without baggage.
Shall pay, for example, the Prussian Post a person with baggage for the mile 6 good penny without
baggage only 4 Ggr. - Hat you are here to explain, so the calls Postofficiant the postage. If
now the mileage to the place where you want to do, it will be easy to calculate for themselves whether
his claim right or wrong. It is chiefly in use everywhere, that this post office money immediately
would impose. It does so well when you versiehet with coin of the realm, not in to small species, because
the post office servant is not bound to accept foreign money and the recount would in small
coins to him too much of its extremely limited Time-consuming. Then you can inquire as to
how much the lowest place you on the diligence get going and what time you should arrive for departure.
-

Some post offices will get a piece of paper or note, what is noticed that the one, have paid
or that place on this, or that post. Where no such common labels are, as yet, the travelers
as they log on, after the series written, and thereafter at each exit his place is instructed. The
courts have on a mail car thus for each other advantages that some back, others forward under
the deck, others do except the deck, and still others just on the
axis, where the most violent shocks of the car feels are.

The best places are usually Being in the middle. It is in vain be, a different place than the
one of order to, as has been reported to receive must require, for the Post servants are directed
here by the rule of Mahlmüller, which says: who comes first, the first serve, and they can not
depart from this order, because otherwise they do other passengers traveling wrong, and this is
not like such can, however, would rather complain. Also, it is be-ing in vain, from the required
Post deduct money to do something, because the Postofficiant it can, because it is taxmäßig and he
must bring it to the tax charged to adopt anything.

Only in the case, if you teach at once valid evidence of the incapacity, or poverty could you
would be allowed to try through modest performances, a monument of the passenger money to obtain.
Actually, however, such a discount of no Postofficianten than on special order of his superiors,
or of the ruler, still less can he complete Post liberty without special statement of the rule will
be granted. Because, for all items It is naturally a general principle that anyone who in the
mail Go ye and all that what is sent by mail, must pay, of which
no Officiant, without special disposal may leave his superiors.

The postmasters are not owners but only the administrator Items, therefore required to calculate
all the income to the prescribed tax. Post- or franchise, or exemption from payment of postal money can
only be bestowed by the sovereign and will never extends further than in proportion to what
they are expressly granted is. Porto maintains such exemption only to certain persons because of
their non-profit enterprises, or for certain transactions to be imparted.

Will you take the journey with the ordinary post = = baggage, so one must ask, how many pounds
you could freely carry with you? - Now that some items on a passenger, of the full postal money
paid, 50, and less on other items, on the other hand, some other more, namely, about 60 to 70
pounds are released, so each passenger, the severity his suitcase, or in his baggage, white figure
out yourself, for how many pounds he still especially should pay. This superiority, which a traveler
on the ordinary post, other than the approved Pfundezahl, carries with it is, in the post-language:
= = About Cargo and also the money for it to impose itself on freight
is called.

Almost all items it will not deal with these cargo taken as strict. Is partly to some Pounds,
if circumstances permit, not respected, and partly also on freight itself with most items only
after the inferior Victualien and tax books, which usually 1 / 4 or 1 / 3 less than the fee
for other commodities, taken and paid for. When a The passenger Pfundezahl its white and the tax
on freight, or how much for 1 pound to be given to its destination, or to the station, where
he pays the postage, must, it is also easy to calculate yourself, pay as much on freight, he
still must and it is advisable such, once it is required to kill without hesitation. The postal
servants is obliged to weigh the baggage of the passengers and for which freight payment demand
and bring it into account, and he both, as the post wagon master, who weighing carried out,
officials are sworn, which proceed according to their instruction need, it is be-ing in vain if
a passenger abdingen refers to the excessive load something or deny they even wanted. The post-servant,
who neglected his duty in this case, as the risk that a subsequent post office nachwägt the
baggage of the passengers, and he therefore must replace at least from his pocket, which he
has charged too little. The weighing of the baggage of passengers, as indeed of all the mail
car Päckereien located, is already therefore necessary, because the post with a specific Pfundezahl
according to the number of horses and the nature of the car and the road, that may be charged.

Noticed a passenger that he too much of cargo will be called, so he can about ideas and do ask
that his baggage to be weighed in his presence. If we do not understand, so, the passenger
open the means of his baggage on the next post office, or in the place where he leaves the
post office, and there can nachwägen challenge to what he initially paid too much. If he refuses
Diess also here, of course, is nothing choice than the incident to the head post office, or the
State Government in writing, with However, as goes without saying, is necessary in that the baggage
in the presence of Witnesses have weighed accurately, and can then be-ing assured that legal
satisfaction would take place.

It finally comes to the departure of the mail car, one must have duly arrived early, so that the Post
does not need to wait, and you will run the risk that the post if you has waiting for us in vain,
and sought leaves. In this case, nothing remains of the passenger left but the post nachzueilen
immediately if he still has hope are to be able to overtake them, or if this not longer possible
to wait until the next postal days, with but one Runs the risk of having to pay the passenger money
again, which is not too unreasonable is rejected if either was in this post a couple of other because
the places already occupied, or because adopted in the future, another passenger on our place
could be. For natural way to a mail car, only a certain number of travelers, namely, admit
of so much space and weight, were adopted.

Before you depart, however, one must have the so-called Postgehülfen and ministering Spirits than
when the case slide which our baggage from our apartment, after the Post has brought home,
and the wagon master, who packed the baggage, the seats on the wagon anweiset and the steps to
upgrade the car is put up. If you just do not know how much you have to give such a man, so
he may be safe 2 Ggr. and offer happy be, if loskömmt it. Usually, the case shall slide in
proportion to the distance where he has brought the baggage, 2, 3, 4 and 6 Ggr. the wagon master 2
and the man at the Stairs 1 Ggr. Where several of these lots are combined in one person, as it is to
the Budget of the traveler the better.

Because at the post office once people are held bring the baggage of passengers at the proper
time and bring these people from this business have to live: it will be nothing allowed propriety,
the things by their own people after the To send mail, which even so is not advisable, because
it is rare to the right Take time and are either too early or too late so that would be. Better,
then, is if one follows the one introduced here also use, so our baggage at the same time the responsibility
of that post-servant is given in custody, though the expenditure by reproduce something. -
In general, I will give any traveler the council, travel not be precisely determined in advance
and fixed. Because if its the same for all the items certain tax has, so when traveling but
cases occur where the minor expenditure could can determine in advance exactly. It was so long
ago in Proverbs:

Who traveled with the mail, Must a carrier back and one of princes have bags,

because driving with the post not only because of the practice in most countries uncomfortable
Coach, and bad roads, to which it is huge ribs and back shocks, very uncomfortable, but is usually
combined with more cost than we imagine, because except taxmäßigen the passenger money, amount
of expenditure in tips for valet, Luggage slider, Postillons & c. probably just as high, the Zehrungskosten
what is often the Travelling party is caused not counting.

    However, the ordinary post
    nor the cheapest way to travel
    ever and along with the above Limitation, the most convenient.

Because it is difficult for others in a way incompatible with a Hackney horses, even with a
wage coach, the mile with 6 to 8 Ggr. can deny.

Before departure is one more thing to watch and still an important issue! Each Passengers are
to be recommended that he see himself, not only where and how his suitcase set and have attached,
but also where the rest of his things are still on the car. - According
to common law but should the post for the safety of the baggage of
passengers liable in the ordinary post, as they paid for the transport,
and consequently for the supervisory will: but in most countries they
have to enact popular, that the traveler with the post about their
baggage must guard itself and that therefore the same in the case
of a loss, nothing to be paid, especially if there is no conductor
or Conducteur on the mail-coach, the custody of the things is applied
explicitly.

Where such regulation is there is a passenger to whom the case is ridiculed by the ear-coach,
either in vain implore the protection of justice, or at the end of his action, not without
trouble and Loss experience.

It is therefore to be recommended to the traveler that he was on the trip as often as he , can
look around for his things, and those where it seems necessary, which will, yes it is even
advisable, that you yourself ropes or chains to give the case to fix it so that to leave. However,
the baggage on the part of the post is made explicit in custody or seized at the instigation
of a Postbeiwagen, so you can with all Fug when little ears is ridiculed, insist on refund of value,
which for even, after due investigation and decision, can not arise.

One comes on a journey to another post office where the horses are changed, so has to come
to terms with the coachman, who drove up there, giving him a tip must extend, which calls the
same with a certain rights, and which usually one stop from 2 to 3 miles in 2 Ggr. exists. Except
this is indeed the coachman to Depletion of its demand anything, but it usually goes from not
so clean, and the passengers are not always able to avoid him in front of a tavern, where
he continues as a trunk to be rich. In some countries, however, the laudable means that the travelers
all these little incidentals in tips for the same postman and the like at the post office taxmäßig
can correct so that they may be requested to travel no more. -

On such a changing station will also be-ing advisable to immediately on arrival to ask, how long will stop
the mail is there, so you do in regard to the Shops, which have been
perform in this place about, or because of the peace to which we must
leave, or set up for the refreshment, which you want to eat, after
that could to oppose the departure time again Being properly prepared.



The old woman muttered and her withered, clenched hand struck her breast.

"It is that which I would see in the cauldron," she hissed.  "Before El Negrito, comes always
his creature, De Soria, and with him come fire and looting and death!  The Señor Wiley turns
all things to his purpose and if he has sold himself to the Evil One and traffics with El Negrito,
I would be warned.  I have seen one of his raids, Señorita; it was as if the sky rained destruction
and slaughter!"

Her head sank on her breast and a brief, tense silence ensued.

"I do not believe such evil of the Señor Wiley," Billie remarked at last.  "Cruel he is and
like a madman in his anger, but between him and El Negrito there could be no covenant.  It
may be that he came upon Sawyer skulking about and was warning him off the hacienda.  Sawyer
has been in Limasito for many days, and he plays high at my father's casa."

"With what gold?" the old woman retorted.  "He who has been beggar and thief since the hour
of his birth.  Much gold he could not steal for he has not the wit.  For what evil compact
has he been paid in riches?"

The girl shrugged.

"Luck turns," she said laconically.  "Once a man came to the Blue Chip with pesos ciento and
broke the faro bank.  Fortune--buena suerte--has smiled on as worthless ones as Sawyer.  But
you, Tia Juana; what did you do last night when you saw?"

"I crept away, silently, so that none knew of my presence and returned to José."  Tia Juana
chuckled mirthlessly.  "My vengeance can wait. The Señor Wiley is a fool, and the son of fools!
It was not to the boy he should have gone for knowledge of the Pool; José knows no more than
the idle words he repeated one evil day to the Señor Hallock, for which I beat him soundly!
It is I who have seen the Pool of the Lost Souls, only I who knows where Dolores and her lover
sleep."

Her voice died in an unintelligible murmur, and the rhythmic swaying recommenced.  The legend
of the Lost Souls' Pool was no new one to Billie; she had heard it often from the lips of the
old crone, who could never be persuaded to divulge its supposed location and the myth had become
an old settlers' joke around Limasito.

She stole away presently, leaving Tia Juana to her incantations, and returned to the shack,
but José had fallen into uneasy slumber, and after moistening the bandage about his head, she
started for home.

The old woman's account of her nocturnal adventure would not be exorcised from Billie's thoughts.
The Señor Wiley was a young Eastern capitalist, who held vast oil and fruit-growing properties
in the surrounding countryside.  It was incredible that he could hold any communication with
the rebel bandit and murderer, Alvarez, the "Little Negro," whose name was enough to strike
terror to native hearts.

El Negrito had pillaged and burned, raped and killed unhindered until he was glutted with blood
and loot, but that was in the old days, only a few years ago before the newest government was
in power and the white men came in force.  Of late he had retired to the hills, the memory
of his atrocities had faded and only when news came of a burning village far away, or the murder
of a lone prospector was the sporadic attempt to capture him renewed, and then in a half-hearted
manner.

It was rumored that the nomadic, down-at-heel half-breed, John Sawyer, was an agent of the
killer, but no proof could be brought to bear upon him and he was allowed to go his cringing
way unmolested.  Billie wondered now, with a cold, unaccustomed sense of dread, if rumor spoke
truly.  What if Sawyer were indeed the forerunner of a visitation from the bandit of the hills?

The girl had turned mechanically into a side road, shadier than the highway and leading by
a short cut to the plaza and the heart of the town.  She was still in the open country, with
orchards stretching out interminably on either side and not even a peon within hailing distance,
when the chug and snort of a motor reached her reluctant ears.  Billie knew that irregular
rattling hum, and insensibly quickened her pace.

Then as the car drew close behind her she slowed, a peculiar light glinting in her eyes.

"Buenas tardes, Señorita Billie!"  A merry, mocking voice called, and she wheeled about.

A sallow, sandy-haired young man, with pale protruding blue eyes and thin curling lips, sprawled
low behind the wheel of his roadster, leering familiarly at her.

"Good-afternoon," she responded formally.  "You must be in a hurry, Mr. Wiley, to have taken
this short cut instead of keeping to the highway. It was good of you not to run me down, but
the way is clear now."

She stepped aside into a mass of flowering low-grown bushes, but with a light laugh the young
man sprang from the car, hat in hand.

"I am never in a hurry to go when you are about, Billie!  But you always run away; you never
will play with me.  Why aren't you kind?"

Involuntarily she stepped back still farther as he advanced upon her.

"Are you in need of kindness?" she asked.

"I should think I was."  He paused before her, still laughing, but his pale eyes glittered.
"You're the only girl in this God-forsaken town that I want to be friends with, and you won't
play.  Be a good sport and come for a little ride now; I'll show you some speed."

"Thanks," she drawled, her hand moving to rest lightly on her hip. "Have you a few more old
scores to settle to-day, with that tin Juggernaut of yours?"

A shadow had fallen across the dazzling white of the road, but neither noted it.  The girl
stood straight as a sapling, smiling up fearlessly into the twisted, sardonic face thrust close
to hers.

"You mean that yellow dog I ran over yesterday?"  The semblance of mirth was gone from his
voice.  "The fool wouldn't move quick enough, and if anyone stands in my way I get them, sooner
or later.  You're a little queen, Billie, and you've been lording it over the roughnecks around
here so long that you think you can set your heel on the neck of the universe.  A little cave-man
stuff would be good for you, my dear."

"You being the cave-man?"  Her clear laughter rang out scornfully. "You aren't very well acquainted
with us around here, Mr. Wiley, or you'd realize that it isn't right healthy to appoint yourself
to office in these parts.  The road is still clear, but you might find it barred with something
you couldn't run down if you don't move quick."

"You little she-cat!"  He sprang forward and seized the wrist which swung at her side.  "You'll
take a ride with me, do you hear?  And you'll come now, or I'll pick you up and carry----"

He got no farther.  Something caught him sidewise and whirled him headlong into the bushes,
and a very calm, very resolute voice sounded in almost forgotten tones.

"You'll pick yourself up first, Starr Wiley, and come back for more if you want it.  You know
what's coming to you!"

Billie started in sheer amazement.  There before her, sprung from nowhere, was her companion
of yesterday, the smug young man who had wanted to play the chaperon, and who had seemed surprised
and shocked when she revealed her identity.  Her eyes blazed.

"How come you to butt in on this little argument?"  There was an ominous note in her slow drawl.
"No one asked you to sit in, Señor Duenna, I'm playing my own hand.  You durn fool, don't you
see I had the coyote covered all the time?"

Her hand moved from the hip pocket of her khaki skirt and he saw the glint of the sun upon
a small but business-like, blunt-nosed revolver.

Kearn Thode stepped back, his face crimson at the name she had dubbed him as well as at the
unexpectedness of her attack, and at that moment Starr Wiley leaped, snarling, from the undergrowth.

The girl stood fascinated.  She had seen many rough-and-tumble fights in the history of Limasito,
but the clean-cut scientific way the two lean, lithe, well-matched figures sprang to combat
thrilled her.

Wiley was the heavier of the two, but indolence and dissipation had softened him and Thode
was in the pink of condition.  After the first blind onslaught he steadied himself and parried,
waiting for the opening his opponent's uncontrolled rage would give him.  It was soon forthcoming;
a side-stepped lunge left Wiley's pallid face exposed and Thode caught him fairly on the point
of the jaw.  He shot across the road, crumpled into the ditch and lay quivering and still,
as his victim of the day before.

Panting, Thode turned to the girl.

"I am sorry," he said stiffly.  "I didn't mean to butt in on your game, but, having started,
I had to finish."

She seemed not to have heard.  Her eyes were shining and a little spot of clear rose showed
in her cheeks as she held out her hand.

"A good, clean knock-out!" she cried.  "I wish Dad could have seen it. You're some fighter,
Mr.----?"

"Duenna," he supplied grimly.  "Do you wish me to leave you here with him now, or shall I wait
until he comes to, and see if he wants a fresh deal?"

She laughed merrily.

"Wiley won't be looking for anything but home and a stiff drink of hooch when he gets back
to the world," she remarked.  "I reckon he's in for quite a siesta."

"We can't very well leave him there."  Thode spoke reflectively.  "Last time, he had a buckboard
and I dumped him back into it.  The team took him home, all right, but you can't very well
expect that of a motor."

Billie eyed him curiously.

"But you've only just come, and he hasn't driven any team around here."

"We've met before."  Thode's face had darkened and his tone was terse. "His car's drawn well
up on the side of the road.  I'll just put him in it and he can find his way when he wakes."

The girl watched as he hauled the limp body out of the ditch and thrust it unceremoniously
into the seat behind the wheel.  Wiley stirred, grunted and then slumped forward, his head
resting upon his arms.

"He'll do."  Billie gave the unconscious figure a last contemptuous glance.  "I like the way
you play when you do get into a little game, and unless you want the whole town to be calling
you 'Mr. Duenna' inside of three days, you'd better tell me your name."

He complied, and quite naturally they swung off down the road together.

Thode stole a glance at her in utter bewilderment.  A girl who could watch a fight without
timidity or squeamishness but in impartial, impersonal joy of the conflict was unique in his
experience.  She had been angry, contemptuous of them both; would she as heartily have congratulated
his adversary, had the tables been turned?

"You are still angry with me for my interference, Miss----?" he began, but she stopped him
with a gesture.

"I've been just 'Billie' to all Limasito since the first well was spudded in; you don't want
the boys to think you're putting notions into my head, do you?"  She smiled, frankly.  "I hated
you because I'd bragged to you that I could take care of myself and nobody would molest me
in these parts, and then you had to come along just when it looked as though I was a maiden
in distress.  You see, I hadn't reckoned on Wiley showing yellow; we don't have many like him
in Limasito; at least not long."

"If I thought you a maiden in distress, I proved to be a very superfluous knight-errant," he
retorted.  "You were well able to take care of yourself, so your boast was no idle one."

"Dad taught me that," she responded simply.  "He runs the Blue Chip on the square, but there
are times when an extra ace appears in the show-down, and then it isn't a question of who produced
it, but which one is quickest on the draw.  Five aces never grew in a straight deck, and I
sometimes think I can see the fifth ace in an hombre's eye.  I saw it in Señor Wiley's."

"I'm going to look in at the Blue Chip, if I may."  Thode sheered the topic away from his late
antagonist, and Billie followed his lead.

"Of course you must," she said cordially.  "You'll find the whole works going; monte, Fairbank,
stud and blackjack.  There's roulette and craps, too, but it's mostly the women who go after them."

"And you--do you play?"  He could not forebear the question.

"Dad says there never was a good bartender yet who drank."  Billie grimaced.  "He even stopped
me being mascot; it always raised a riot. It isn't the winning hand or the stakes themselves
that I care for, it's the fun of the game, but Dad says gambling is a poor game for women.
They never count the odds they stack up against, and when they over-play, they're bad losers.
You'll like Dad, Mr. Thode; he's the whitest hombre that ever crossed the Rio."

Secretly, Thode was beginning to think that he should.  The girl was an anomaly and he was
curious to see what manner of man her idol was and learn how he had kept her so singularly
free from the dross of his world and managed to hold so unswervingly before her the real stakes
of the game, truth and honor and a high heart.

When he left her at the side door of the Blue Chip, the young engineer held her hand for an
appreciable moment longer than the occasion demanded.

"I'm coming to-night," he announced.  "Will you--will I see you?"

"In the patio," she dimpled swiftly.  "Buena suerte!"

"Good luck!"  The phrase echoed in his brain, but oddly enough his thoughts did not go forward
to the hot, crowded, smoke-hung card-room, or the girl waiting in the cool, fragrant darkness
of the inner court, but instead there arose before his mental eyes the vision of a petrified
wooden cross beside a glassy pool, and mingled incongruously with it, the face of Starr Wiley,
distorted as he had last seen it, with the bruised lips twisted into a mocking leer.  Would
the lightly expressed wish of Gentleman Geoff's Billie prove a presage of victory in the great
game they two were playing?

CHAPTER III

THE COMING OF EL NEGRITO

When he entered the Blue Chip that night, Thode found play already in full blast.  The tables
were crowded, smoke hung in low-banked clouds below the flaring oil lamps, and the glittering
bar at the far end of the room was phalanxed three deep by a jostling, good-natured throng.
Soft-footed, wooden-faced Chinese mozos glided about, and the whining monotone of the croupier
came from a distant corner.

The scene was not an unfamiliar one to the young engineer, but he glanced about him with quickened
interest.  The walls of the huge room, like the exterior, were painted a garish blue, the floor
bare but scrubbed clean, and the chairs and tables had been obviously selected with a view
to utility and strength rather than ornamentation.  No attempt had been made to render the
place attractive and in this Gentleman Geoff's psychology was sound; Limasito wanted its play,
like its liquor, without frills.

Leisurely, Thode approached the roulette-table and stood looking over the shoulder of a burly
drill-shirted tool-dresser as the little ball spun in the whirling wheel and dropped into seventeen.
The tool-dresser grunted with satisfaction and raked in the heap of silver pushed toward him
by the croupier, but one or two of the watchers turned away.  The play was evidently not yet
high enough to hold their interest, and Thode was on the point of following when a hand clapped
his arm.

Turning, he found a tall, lean figure beside him clad in immaculate white duck from top to
toe, with a drooping gray mustache beneath a high, thin nose, keen, twinkling eyes and a mass
of grizzled, waving hair.  He might have been anywhere between forty-five and sixty, and in
a flash his identity was disclosed to the young engineer.

"Howdy!"  The hand which had rested on his arm clasped his in a hearty grip.  "Glad to see
you here, Sir.  My daughter told me to expect you."

"You're Gentleman Geoff?" the younger man asked quickly, smiling in return.  "My name is Thode.
I met your daughter yesterday----"

"So she told me."  The twinkle brightened in the genial eyes.  "I'm glad of a chance to thank
you for helping her with that poor little cuss, José.  He's a special favorite of hers.  Were
you thinking of sitting in right now, Mr. Thode?"

"Not just yet.  I was having a look around----"

"Then come out where it's cool, and have a man-sized drink."

His surprising host led the way to the patio where they found a little table close by the plashing
fountain and a hovering mozo attended to their needs.  When the servant had departed, Gentleman
Geoff folded his arms on the table and leaned forward.

"You're a newcomer, Mr. Thode, and down here we don't ask a man where he came from or the nature
of his business, as long as he attends to it strictly and doesn't interfere with others.  There
is no objection to his playing a tight game providing he is on the level, but when he makes
a crooked move, it's time for the rest of us to take a hand.  My Billie tells me you are an
old acquaintance of this man Wiley and I am going to ask you one question straight, Sir.  Do
you know anything good of him?"

"Well," Thode temporized, "he's rated a millionaire in New York and his father was one of the
pioneer Pennsylvania oil men.  He is a partner of Harrington Chase, and together they hold
some of the best leases in this part of the country, I understand."

"They do.  But I was speaking of the man himself."  Gentleman Geoff's eyes smiled a perfect
understanding.  "I was wondering if there could be some point in his favor that I'd overlooked."

"In that case, we've been mutually blind," said Thode, frankly.  "I met him first out in Oklahoma
two years ago, and I've run across him more than once since, and I don't mind telling you candidly
that each meeting has given me less pleasure.  I didn't expect to encounter him down here,
and I guess Limasito is big enough to hold us both, but if he wants to see me after to-day
he knows where to find me."

The older man nodded, slowly.

"I reckoned as much.  He hasn't been any favorite since he blew in here, to draw it mild, but
he's getting just a little bit too offensive for the good of the community.  I know his breed,
but I didn't think even he would snap at my Billie's heels.  I would have looked you up at
the hotel to-night to shake hands with you for what you did this afternoon, Mr. Thode, but
Billie told me you intended to pay us a little visit."

"It was a pleasure," the other responded with sincerity.  "It has been coming to Wiley for
a long time.  But your daughter had the situation well in hand.  She is a remarkable young woman."

"She is an honest one, honest with herself and the world.  There wasn't much else I could teach
her and it hasn't been possible for her to have regular schooling and the influence of women.
I've always reckoned fair play was about the biggest thing in life, and woman-like she's gone
further than my teachings and worked out an eye-for-an-eye creed of justice for herself that
would shame a vigilance committee, but she's wholesome and sound in mind and limb."

"I've learned a little of what they think of her in this town."  Thode hesitated, and then
went on earnestly.  "I know the strict code of even the roughest mining camps up over the border,
where good women are concerned, but I'll own that it gave me a jolt to see how freely and fearlessly
she goes about down here.  You may think, Sir, that I'm exhibiting a lot of nerve, and it may
be that I have a distorted picture in my mind of the life in this part of the country for a
young girl like your daughter, but is she safe with all these low-caste half-breeds about?"

"As safe as in a convent."  Gentleman Geoff's eyes had narrowed.  "I appreciate your interest,
Mr. Thode, but let me remind you that it was a man from the States, a New York swell, who molested
her this afternoon.  There isn't a low-caste Mex' who would take a chance, for he'd know that
every gun from here to the Sierra Madre would be cocked for him, and even the hills couldn't
give him a hiding-place!  But as to Wiley.  I had a reason apart from his little attentions
to Billie, for asking about him.  Whatever lies between you two is your own game, but I know
you better than you think, Mr. Thode.  Your chief, Perry Larkin, told me he was sending you
down, and what manner of hombre you were.  If Larkin can trust you, I'm going to take a chance.
I thought I had Wiley's number, but I learned something to-day, aside from that little fracas,
that makes me doubt I've given him credit for his limit of crookedness.  Mr. Thode, do you
figure that Starr Wiley is enough of a man to be a very big rascal?"

Thode hesitated again.

"I think," he began at last, "that it would depend wholly on the size of the stakes.  He's
a coward when it comes to a show-down, but money and place and power are his gods.  If it was
a tremendous piece of villainy with a big incentive he mightn't have the courage to see it
through himself, but he is quite capable of aiding and abetting it, or hiring others to do
it for him."

Gentleman Geoff's fists clenched and he drew a deep breath.

"That's it!" he cried.  "You've struck it, Mr. Thode!  Unless I'm mistaken, he's dealing the
biggest, crookedest hand of his life right now, but we'll get him, Sir.  We'll show him what
fair play is below the border--"

He broke off and for a minute the two men sat in silence, straining their ears.

Above the click of glasses and sound of many voices in the gambling-rooms had come the sharp,
staccato clatter of a horse's hoofs upon the hard-packed road.  It was not unusual in a land
where hooch was cheap and stimulating and every drunken roysterer celebrated in the saddle,
but there was an ominous, tragic suggestion in the irregularity of the hoof-beats as of an
exhausted, failing beast urged on by grim and vital need.

The young engineer leaped to his feet as the clatter ceased in a harsh scraping thud, and with
Gentleman Geoff beside him, he crossed the patio and re-entered the gambling-room.  The voices
had hushed as if by magic, and every motionless figure was turned toward the entrance door.

It was flung open and a man staggered blindly over the sill, reeling and clutching at his breast
with both gnarled, sinewy hands.

"El Negrito!" his voice rose in a smothered sob.  "He's hit the trail and coming fast.  Look
out for your----"

The stranger choked, caught at his throat and crumpled slowly to the floor, a thin scarlet
stream pouring from his lips. He threw me a long exam, where I come, why I was in
Tarudant, go wherever I wanted to know why I had become Muslims, so I thought that because he
was always very serious, that he me despite my adequate Reply to send the son of a Christian to
prison, would he suddenly Entertainment to the medical community and demanded a remedy for gout pain
from me. At the same time Tea served up and carried in a well-prepared breakfast. The conversation
went mainly to the Christian civilization of, and I was surprised at the Kadi a progress swear allegiance
to the man before me. After completion of breakfast, he said goodbye, and said he would send for
me, so I prepare the medicine in his presence.

On the following day in the evening I had to go to him, and I knew to do otherwise, I prepared a
Kamphersalbe and had him rubbing do with it. I had to Tea drink with him and have dinner, at
parting he gave me a big plus Basket with dates and almonds with a minor, then a bowl of sweet
pastries, that was prepared very well and almost last for years. Although the dates and almonds
were from the last harvest and of excellent quality, so I sold it the largest Part of it.
I got a pound of almonds for the high price of 6 for local area Mosonat; It was bad harvest
for the almonds have been, because in good years is obtained for a number of Mosona Pounds.

On the fourth day to put my fever more violent than any other, I thought
of typhoid to be attacked, had eight days I keep my cave.

I took the last one left over Dose of quinine, enjoyed the whole time just bread and water
every day and some pomegranates, which brought me Fundukbesitzer from his garden.

With a rather large caravan I left then.

It was composed of 20 men and 30 pieces laden mules, and donkeys together. The people themselves
were from the oasis Draa. From the Thaleb Kadi I was recommended to them and so well received
by them was. This type of caravans expect Tarudant eight days' march, which are very strong, the
Livestock is it forward from sunrise to sunset with the greatest possible speed driven. So
it was a tough tour for me because I carried along by the fever, very tired was, and sometimes
that I was taken away, and as for food from the proprietors the livestock was kept, to help drive the
cattle had to.

Throughout the first day we followed the Oued-Sus, which forms on both sides laughing gardens.
Right and left, we had high mountains, but the range in the north at least once as high as
the south-west trending, which also only a branch of the great Atlas is. Around noon, we marched
in an easterly direction always, we were at a village the Beni-Lahia maintenance, and it was
there held market, and the people of our caravan wanted now buy more grain to it to take to
their homes. After the end went shopping it further. I do not know by what accident it happened
that the part of the caravan in which I found myself in the other separated, in short, we lost
the way and it was, believe I midnight when we reached the village where the others camped in
the evening. This had We had a miserable way, the whole land of broader and narrower rivulets, which
for Irrigation of the soil, serve, cut, is in darkness, we were thrown all now Moment in such
water, or even a donkey sank into the mud and pulling out could be accomplished only with difficulty
and delay.

Was shorter more of the following day's march, we had to do very soon in a village maintenance,
because people before us two tribes made war, and thus the area was infested. Seven days we
had to stay in this place are, however, found the most hospitable host there. I was stationed
with four others in a large farm and so was the whole caravan distributed. At last the hostile
parties seemed to have made peace and we could leave the way was open. We followed the Oued-Sus,
almost to its source, which part of the country, as elsewhere, is called Ras-el-Oued, and from then
on, hit a southeastern Direction.

As sharp well marked in the southwest of the Atlas mountain range branches off from the Sus-valley
views, excludes himself, little as he is, in fact, one comes away as possible in any mountainous southeast
branch but torn in a mountain. Although we now also from the actual everywhere culturfähigen Land is
out, we've also got the real Sahara is not reached. However, the hills naked and bare, but
the area is extremely alternately, water often and small oases at every turn. Towards sunset
we reached an oasis, the first real palm plantation, which I got to see (the palm trees of Morocco
and Tarudant you notice the same in that it actually for the local soil and climate are still foreign),
several villages were hidden in it. We camped by now, never in the village, but always in the
open, and then looked up at the end of a lying between rocks hide. This Way we always marched
four days away in a southeasterly direction. The area retained its peculiar Character, naked,
bare rocks, enclosed by mountains, plains, with no vegetation, only Stones covered here and there an oasis,
which is from afar through the palm trees announced, and sometimes even great distances with
Shih (Artemisia) covered with signs that we are the real Sahara had not been reached, such
images have always before our eyes.

On the fifth day we were marching, after we had passed through several levels of a mountain
pass, as I have never seen one, and probably no more similar to Earth exists. This mountain pass,
or rather with the gorge, which also average was in our line of approach, we also had the real mountains
behind us. This Canyon was about 5 wide step, formed on both sides of vertical marble walls,
and in the same a small stream trickled with lovely green banks. At the exit of the gorge
Bach gave rise to an oasis. The marble, which was reflected in the sun, and in places was as smooth
as if he were artificially polished and shone in all colors.

What the interest of this one gorge still elevated, was that at the outlet or at southeastern
end of it a carbonate source was. I think there is hardly a second so rich in carbonic acid
water, such as this, continued to rise while thick bubbles on, and when drinking it to a tingling
in the mouth, as if you were drinking champagne. The land What is this gorge and the source
is located, is called Tassanacht, and formed by the river Oasis, Tesna [140]. The area was here,
as elsewhere, almost anywhere, extremely metal-rich, I found on the ground in Tesna exposed to
light, antimony pieces of 1-1/2 inch thick, pure, unmixed metal.

      [Footnote 140: See Petermann's releases in 1865, sixth panel]

The
next day passed without something special happened, but I had great
effort to participate in this strenuous marches, especially me an
exhaustive diarrhea, had affected caused by the unusual food.

People mingled namely flour with mashed dates to a paste, poured add some oil, and raw, this
was enjoyed or you ate well, just mixed with water, mashed dates. On top of that we sometimes
much to suffer from thirst had, since the animals were all loaded excessively, so that of water
had no place. The worst stretch was the last. We were still a good day from the Draa and camped
in the evening in a deserted valley. To the Oued Draa, the following Days to reach early, we left
at midnight. Unfortunately, my shoes become completely useless, the soles were falling off.
I resorted to the fact that I the people from the remnants of leather sandals zusammenflickten
which fastened with straps on the feet were. In general, south of the Atlas bear almost all the people
sandals. For one who does not is used to it, but it is a torturous footwear, as the belt cut the
same depth. In the dark night I stumbled against a stone at any moment now, and it seemed like
a Eternity to the dawn broke. When at last the day began and we had breakfast, had We hardly the water
necessary, but the views, go at least half a day's march to have to hope without encountering
a well or spring. Around noon, my palate quite dry, and when we finally saw the palm trees from
a distance, with a laugh from the green of the orange, Figs, pomegranates, peaches and apricots
among them, I thought I can not reach them; first by 4 clock afternoon we were in the village
Tanzetta, where several people in our caravan to Were home. My first thing was to delete my burning
thirst, I drank at least 3 liters Water at one time

* * * * *

15. The Draa Oasis. Assassination attempt on the traveler. Arrival in Algeria.

       * * * * *

       Fed by the eternal snows of the Atlas, the Draa-Oued, the longest
of the Moroccan currents Rise to one of the most beautiful oasis,
where education, as they generally only in the Sahara takes.

For only there, where ever-flowing water is above ground, is so lush Vegetation grow and the fruit
trees, which produces the happy air of the Mediterranean basin. And if, after several days of
marches through the stony and bare burning desert Green sees that laughing, as it is fresh high-born
under the sheltering roof Palm developed, then you almost forget the troubles and hardships of a journey
on foot achieved through the desert, because you believe one of the islands of the blessed to.

Of
inhabited and fertile part of the Oued Draa, is that of the mountains to the south-going River
valley, once the Draa bends to the west, or about 29 ° below the NB he starts to to be uninhabited
and barren.

It has the reason is because of the upcoming Atlas Waters continually flow only to the point, the
Atlantic Ocean but only once a Year, reached after the big snow melt of the mountain. If the
Draa River from the strange shaped mountain land, which lies south of the Atlas Mountains, regardless
of this, out of then it flows through his more or less broad valley, which he created himself
added. But here are the banks and banks of the pristine river valley sometimes so high so strangely
formed that, seen from the river bed from them for two south trending could keep running parallel
mountains. Once and rather in the middle of the north south running river rises but a real
mountain, the Zagora, on the left Banks of the Oued-Draa. That the great Debaya is nothing more
than a Sebcha and temporarily A lake may be called, and I dare Renou Delaporte get over upright.
Renou says p. 180: "ce grand lac d'eau est clouce REMPLI de poissons et les indigènes naviguent
dessus et y font la pêche d'après Mr. Delaporte. "- I do not want to deny that the Debaya a time
in bottled water, I will not doubt also that he at the time without fish, except that he would
sail with boats, but it only takes a short time, perhaps only a few weeks, so quickly rush down
so violently the water from the Atlas, as quickly and as fast as they rush to the ocean. And
if this extraordinary floods not reach the Debaya, it dries quickly and will last perhaps Sebcha
nothing more than a great depression.

There is extremely little reliable before news of the Draa region. Of course as Such is the same already
called in the Middle Ages. But the fact that the Draa landscape calls, or at most a town notirt
same limited, is also everything. Leo raises only the location of Beni-Sabih out, apparently
the big city I visited in Beni-SBiH the southern province Ktaua.

Marmol leads the city Quiteoa (apparently Ktaua), he also called Tinzeda, which is probably
my Tanzetta. He also mentions the places Taragale, Tinzulin (the Province Tunsulin by me), Tamegrut,
Tabernost, Afra and Timesquit (probably Mesgeta). Delaporte also knows Quiteoa. Mouette call
a mountain which Lafera or cave-mountain, Marmol calls this mountain Taragale or Taragalt,
and it is the least of the mountain, which I by the natives as the DJ. Zagora was described [141].
It is the primary, Draalande of what was known as Caillie touched even the southeastern Umbugsecke
of the valley, at places Mimmssina.

[Footnote 141: See Renou, empire de Maroc, p. 175 uf]

The Draa country is divided from north to south (I speak only of the inhabited parts, extending
south to the point where the Draa bend to the West's Run changes)
in five provinces: the northern Mesgeta, then Tinsulin or Tunsulin
(Tinjulen) thirdly Ternetta, fourth Fesuoata and finally the southernmost
and largest province Ktaua.

      Although in the province of Sultan Kaid Ternetta resides one, that
is a government of Morocco used is off, so there exists the same as
merely nominal.

The reputation of Kaid and his Maghaseni will probably not go beyond where they live. The whole area
in the Draa areas is such that each village is independent from the other, and each municipality
by their layers which Djemma, (Assembly of the oldest and most respected men) to the side is ruled.
Nor even the individual provinces have their own common Government. As the main town or capital
of the country can be described Draa Tamagrut, but only in that here is a famous religious society,
a Sauya is. But by no means is a Tamagrut officielle capital, not even whatever Population
As for the former. The largest village in the Draa valley is located in the city of Beni-Ktaua
SBiH.

All the villages are surrounded by a high Thonmauer, some have more or less wide and deep trenches.
All have at least one mosque, the larger and several. The houses, built of rammed clay, have
a most spacious interior courtyard, all have a flat roof and usually a ground floor and one floor.
On the ground floor we kept the cattle, and to keep up on people. The roads in the villages
are narrow, dusty and full of filth, although here, as in all public
Tafilet and Tuat Latrines are numerous.

The Palm Gardens, all of which are well eingefriedigt by high Thonmauern receive their irrigation
by the ever-flowing Oued Draa, and since the water very abundant, so there's no time to determine
the distribution of water take necessary had. The dates, which are produces in the Draa Oasis are
one, the principal of the whole Sahara, and since they have no other sales territory for a
to Morocco, the addition of yet Tafilet and Tuat and other small oases Datt its diesel demand
concerns, they are extremely cheap, in good years, sells [selling] is a camel- (Approx. 3 cwt) for half
a dollar. The cereal needs must, however, obtained from outside to be the building which the
natives, not even enough to feed them, although the whole years will be planted and harvested throughout.
It comes because A big [big] Part of the gardens only for vegetables, cabbage, turnips, Carotte,
onion, pepper, garlic, tomatoes, Melons, etc. is used, and because the largest and most beautiful
province, Ktaua, so of liquorice (Glycirrhiza) overgrown that this is most of the fertile
soil under the palm trees occupies.

The animal kingdom offers nothing special, the lamb in the southern provinces of Ternetta without
wool on, horses, donkeys, mules, and goats are good and of the same kind as in Morocco, Cattle
are very rare. Of wild birds have been the dove, sparrows, swallows, then a charming little
bird, also belonging to the sparrows, but with colorful plumage and pretty voice. The natives call
it marabout (the Saint) and he freely displayed but tame in every house, every oasis south of the
great Atlas.

As for the population, whose number may amount to 250,000 [142] souls, we call they Draui. The majority
after they are Berbers: the Arabs, especially Schürfa live only isolated in Ksor. Noteworthy are
still living in palm huts Beni-Mhammed, pure Arabs their origin after they are through all the
Draa valley scattered in small communities of found a few families. Also, some Berber tribes
have this kind of living in palm huts. While the Arabs who inhabit this oasis, preferably
Schürfa, Marabutin and the tribe the Beni-Mhammed are among the Berbers
in almost all the large fraction of the Ait Atta.

[Footnote 142: In Petermann's Mittheilungen, the number of Population indicated in my reports to
25,000: a Spelling errors in my manuscript.]

The negro, who is also well represented, has the large amount of population had little effect,
but the Draaberber if he loves it not, with the Black to mix, but
has imperceptibly absorbed negro blood, have sun and dust yours helped
the race go to a dark color.

      The blacks, which is in the Draa encounters are mostly of Hausa
       and Bambara, also Sonrhai negroes are not rare.
       

Established in some Ksor Jews do not live here in the same oppressed and expelled Manner as in the
rest of Morocco, although they also put up some vexations can need. You are here delivered less
than the market, however, represented more the actual Artisan class. Büchsenschmiederei, tin brawl,
carpentry, tailoring and shoemaking are their principal occupations. And just because it works
through the hand of the Draa residents become indispensable, they
are less distressed.

After the holy place may Tamagrut however, they do not go, not even there, outside the city, held weekly
market . Visit But for the rigor of this rule Maas feel less, but you have to respect had
to move the market day for Tamagrut on a Saturday, a day when the Jews without is forbidden
to act and to sell.

In addition to the language you notice what the outside (except of course the blacks) are concerned,
between Draui no difference, this would not, would you believe that the country was of a nation
inhabited. The life of the inhabitants is very simple. In the morning, a thin hot and very peppery
soup eaten with dates, lunch and afternoon dates, why take the rich unsalted butter, butter
milk to drink, while the arms only water to drink has, and at night
is the most common way fare lives Kuskussu Thus, the Draui a daily
and year after year.

Tanzetta, place where I first arrived, like all villages surrounded by a high wall and attached.
North close by is the only Schürfa (descendants of Mohammed's) lived Alt-Tanzetta place, and
outside of Old Tanzetta is a Milha (Jewish Quarter). A half Hours south of the big city Tanzetta
Sauya-Sidi-Barca, and close by stands the strangely shaped and the very famous mountain-dwellers
Draa Zagora, famous, because it contains a cave, hidden in what the
Christians in the past a great treasure , had raised the as yet no
one.

The Zagora is just the center of the country-Draa or Draa valley (ie, running from north to south
current portion), and he is a real Berg, not only an increase in the bank.

After a stay of eight days, I broke from Tanzetta on to the south to look for the main famous places,
the sacred Tamagrut, locality, only a small day trip south of Tanzetta is to come. I was monitoring
that was dear to me already is because I me with the Berber population not able to understand.
As an exceptional There was heat, the way we did in two days, and remained on the first day in
a large Ksor, inhabited by Berbers, Alaudra name. The road did not follow the curves of the river,
but ran straight south, and we soon found ourselves in stony desert,
sometimes in a smiling valley.

At noon we reached the next day Tamagrut that only by its Size, and the fact that a stable market
is held therein, from the other villages different. The Sauya, to Sidi-Hammed-ben-Nasser called,
is one of the largest I 've seen.

Sidi-Hammed-ben-Nasser was a famous saint, but not a descendant of Mohammed. But had Allah gave
him the gift in his own language of the animals with the animals talk was able to (according
to the beliefs of the Moroccan Sultan Solomon before him, only then Harun al Rashid and his
minister Djaffer), but unfortunately, this great gift to its offspring not inherited. At least
I can constatiren that the great-grandson neither with the camels, still with the horses or other
animals could talk.

I have developed elsewhere, that the Muslims a great advantage in front of us Christians have:
that their saints are often already made a saint in his lifetime that their saints may marry, the
children and descendants of these saints also considered sacred are, indeed, that the saint
is growing among the Mohammedans, meaning that the offspring Such saints are considered holy,
as the ancestors themselves

But in Christianity it has not quite the same. Are not carnal descendants of the popes Christ, but
it follows the other as a spiritual heir, and one follows from the first bishop in Rome, the increasing
power and holiness to the last reigning, which God equated with its infallibility, we find
that we are not so much behind the other sister Semitic religion stand back. And it is in the
other Christian Confessions not as well?

The current owner of the Sauya, Si-Bu-Bakr, a great-great-grandson of the above-mentioned saints,
held as well as much more sacred than the ancestor itself His family, incidentally, was one
which has always been by piety, by learning the scriptures, but also by Zeal had won.

I went immediately into the Sauya where they led me to Sidi Bu Bakr.

It was just the Time of the public reception, the venerable old man was therefore in the amount
of people who streamed in from all sides, were little notice of me, but gave me a command only
Room to instruct. More attentive received me his two sons, I had several they stay for weeks
at a day and they showered me with attentions of all kinds

  When you do need a handle to it, I reckon there ain't
any law 'gainst you pickin' out one to suit yourself."

Baggott was the chief executor of the late gambler and mightily puffed up with the pride and
dignity of his office.  Gentleman Geoff's private papers were few and carefully indited, their
instructions unmistakably clear.  Under them, Baggott sold the Blue Chip scrupulously to the
highest bidder, although it broke his heart to see Limasito's proudest institution pass into
the hands of a Tampico syndicate.  He placed the two hundred thousand, American, which the
establishment brought, unreservedly to Billie's account.

"If you ain't of age, nobody knows the difference," he announced. "Gentleman Geoff left word
it was to go 'to my daughter, known as Billie,' and there you are.  The money's your'n, and
it's up to you to do what you like with it."

Bewildered and numb in her first contact with poignant grief, the girl had taken up her temporary
abode at Henry Bailey's fruit ranch, a mile or two out on the Calle Rivera, where his buxom
wife, Sallie, mothered her to her heart's content.

Thode rode out each day to see her, but a new inexplicable shyness in Billie's attitude toward
him made his task still more difficult and he deferred the question of her future in sheer
funk.  The magnitude of her fortune, too, was a stumbling-block.  The girl knew nothing of
him save what intuition had taught her.  What if she assumed that his object were to gain control
of her estate?  The thought maddened him into action at length and one day as they cantered
slowly back from a visit to the little José, he forced the issue.

"Billie, have you thought of the future, of what you will do?" he asked.

"Oh, yes."  The reply was prompt and decisive.  "I can't tell you, Mr. Thode, or anyone, but
I've got something to do, something big, and I've made up my mind to see it through.  It's
just as much an inheritance from Dad as the money and I mean to let nothing stand in my way."

There was a grim earnestness in her tone which made him glance curiously at her.

"You are sure you can't tell me, and let me help, whatever it is?" he asked gently.

Billie shook her head.

"It's my job.  I'll have my work cut out for me, I expect, but nobody else can share it.  I've
got to play a lone hand, but when it's over, I--I don't know.  I haven't made any plans beyond
that."

"But surely you don't intend to remain here in Limasito all your life?"

"Why not?"  She shot a swift glance at him.  "It was good enough for Dad."

"But not for you.  That's the point.  I--I had a talk with your father just before he died,
and he wants you to go away; to travel and study and mingle with people of your own kind."

"Aren't these my kind?"  Hot loyalty blazed in her tone.  "They're all the friends I have in
the world, the folks right here in Limasito, and all I want!  What would I do among a lot of
city people; stuck-up snobs who don't know I'm alive?  I wouldn't even know how to talk to
them, or what fork to eat with, and what's more, I wouldn't care.  Why, I haven't even got
a second name!  'Gentleman Geoff's Billie' would look well in the society papers, wouldn't
it?  No, thanks!  I'll stick to the folks I know and--and care for!"

"But they're not all snobs, Billie, just because some of their ways are different from yours.
I have a sister who can play a stiff game of poker and ride as well as you.  Edna spends most
of her time out in the open, and nothing feazes her.  You would get on beautifully with her
and I thought perhaps you would let me take you to her, sometime."

Billie was silent.  She was staring straight ahead of her, into the vista above her pinto's
ears, and had Thode looked at her he would have seen a quick flush mantle her face, but he
was occupied by his own problem.

"You are different, you know, from the people about here; or anywhere else for that matter,
Billie.  I--I've never met a girl like you, so brave and true and wonderful!  I want to take
you away from all this and show you how different the world can be.  What does it matter about
your name?  You are you, and that's all that counts.  Everyone will love you, they couldn't
help it!----"  He rushed on heedlessly, oblivious to any ulterior construction which might
be put upon his words, intent only on assuring her of her welcome in the place which her father
had said was her rightful one, and in convincing her of his disinterested friendship.

"I told your father that if you were willing I would gladly take you to my sister, and we would
all do our best to make you happy."  He reddened, in his turn.  "Please, don't misunderstand;
no one will ever attempt to advise or suggest anything concerning the disposal of your fortune,
it is only that you must have, as your father said, the best of everything; all that you have
missed."

"Oh, don't talk of the money, please!"  She stopped him with a swift gesture.  "I do understand,
but I--I don't want to say anything now. Maybe you'll change your mind.  You were shocked,
you remember, when I told you Dad ran the Blue Chip, and you might be sorry you--you tried
to make your sister friends with a gambler's daughter, without a family name. The city is served by an excellent water supply with water, I'm not mistaken,
from a walking in the Oued Beth Bache, which rises north of the city.

I must mention a side trip to Muley Edris Serone, one about 3 hours north nearby city of Mikenes;
however I can from this charming place located no more , As cited in the description of what I have
already communicated to the city of Fez. Nevertheless, I physician the Sultan, was in the house lived
the first minister, all the customs and manners of the Muslims join in every particular, but I
was always viewed with suspicious eyes. After some a locality to ask direct, was already not
at all.

One would have said right, I was a spy.

Fortunately, an event occurred, which freed me from the Sultan's service, an English Embassy
was in prospect, and met a few weeks, Sir Drummond Hay with numerous suite, and escorted by a
strong detachment in Maghaseni Mikenes. One can imagine how great was my joy. For over a year, so
much time was now passed, I had not heard from Europe, either a letter or a newspaper had had and
was now suddenly books, newspapers, and could talk with educated men. In the beginning I had great
difficulty to get to Sir Drummond Hay, as the Moroccan Government had issued the strictest orders not
to allow renegades to the embassy. Only by a trick I obtained admission by saying Si Tbaib:
I need to be Disease due to speak to the British embassy accompanying doctor. This was granted,
and I was then accompanied by my former interpretation, the embassy entered.

Sir Drummond lived in one of the finest houses in the town wherein it even in European Furniture
was missing, since the Sultan has all such utensils, but they are for his Person is not needed.
In general, the embassy with a courtesy and politeness treated as Sir Drummond Hay, the real secret
rulers of Morocco's importance. On the streets, the people, everywhere where the embassy was,
she was again respectfully welcomed. As good as the Sultan, the people feel that only a true aid against
England the Spanish and French is. It goes without saying that Sir Drummond with all freedom
of movement, was also the other gentlemen of the embassy.

As for me, so I just got a letter from Sir Drummond (issued in Arabic) said, me to have the same
show by the first minister to the sultan. In this letter was stressed that the Moroccan government
should not confuse me with the other renegades and give me back my freedom. The paper leaves worked
wonders. As the Si Thaib me the same handed to a few days later, he added that the Sultan had read
the paper, and said I could do what I wanted to be completely free to leave Mikenes, yes I could
everywhere in the "Rharb" travel and stop me where I would find it good. Who was happier than
I am. But now, the desire by the actual country of Morocco was to travel, first aroused right
and in particular I felt a strong impulse from now on continue to penetrate into the interior of Africa.
But I was now only too aware of quite how much was still lacking, such dangerous Travel agents to run
without. If a part is precisely this lack of means a great letter of protection for me, I had the
other in Arabic, little progress made by then. The fact that I constantly had an interpreter
to the side, made I hardly understood by this language as the beginning of my journey. Also, I was
the manners and customs of real people too little familiar.
  The stranger tasted his liquor and replaced the glass with a fastidious shudder
upon the bar.  "He is not here now?"

Baggott shook his head.

"You may have heard that Alvarez--El Negrito, they call him--paid us a little visit a few days
ago."  He added a profane and heartfelt abjuration of the bandit.  "Most of us were corraled
in the Blue Chip, and Geoff, he was shot down along with a lot of others."

"Dead!  How unfortunate!  Can you tell me if he left any family; a daughter, for instance?"

"Sa-ay!"  Jim folded his arms on the bar and gazed levelly at his guest.  "What's it to you
if he did?  I happen to be Geoff's executor----"

"Ah, that simplifies matters."  The stranger drew a card-case from his pocket.  "I am Mason
North, of the firm of North, Manning and Gilchrist, attorneys.  We are looking for a young
woman known as the daughter of this Gentleman Geoff, to notify her of something to her advantage.
Can you tell me where she may be found?"

"Known as his daughter?" Jim stammered.  "Billie is his daughter, damn it!  There ain't no
other young woman----"

"'Billie'?" repeated North sharply.  "A derivative, no doubt.  That is significant.  I should
like very much to see this Miss 'Billie'----"

"Then you've only got to turn your head!"  A clear young voice sounded from the doorway, and
the attorney wheeled to confront the object of his quest.

"Lord, Billie, where'd you vamoose to?  The whole town's been askin' for you for the last three
days!"  Jim remembered his manners.  "This is Mr. North.  He's a lawyer and he says he's got
some news for you."

Billie shook hands gravely. If a village about to become the city, a child to man, this village go and child
in city and men under. Only the memory can draw in the old trains in the new image; in fact, the old materials
or forms have been eliminated and replaced with new ones. Otherwise it goes on in a psychic development.
One can not compare the situation otherwise described as the assertion that any earlier stage of development
in addition to the later that has become of her, maintained, and the succession implies a coexistence
with, although there are still the same materials on which the whole series of changes expired.
The former mental state may not have expressed for years, it remains but in so far as that one day
he will be the manifestation of spiritual forces in turn can, and indeed the only, as if any subsequent
developments canceled canceled would have been. This extraordinary plasticity of mental development
in their Direction is not absolute, they can be used as a special ability to regress - Regression
- Describe, because it does happen that a later and higher stage of development, leaving was,
can not be recovered. But the primitive conditions can always be prepared, the primitive soul is immortal
in the fullest sense.

The so-called mental illness must cause a layman the impression that
the humanities life and soul of the destruction was succumbed.

In fact, concerns the destruction only later acquisitions and developments. The nature of mental
illness is to return to earlier states of the emotional life and function. An excellent example
of the Plasticity of mental life is the sleep state we strive every night. Since then, We understand
great and confused dreams translate, we know that with each Our hard-won sleep morality as a
robe to throw on us - to put it on Harming again tomorrow. This exposure is of course dangerous,
because through the sleep state paralyzed, are condemned to inactivity. Only the dream can
from the regression of our emotional life give to one of the earliest stages of development
customer. It is, for example, remarkable that all our dreams of purely selfish motives to be controlled.
One of my English friends represented once that sentence before a scientific meeting in America, whereupon
a lady present remarked, well, there may perhaps be true for Austria, but she might say about
herself and her friends that she still in a dream altruistic . Feel My friend, although himself
a member of the English race had, by virtue of its contradict their own experiences in the
dream analysis of the energetic lady: In the dream was also the noble American woman as selfish
as the Austrians.

It can therefore also Triebumbildung, based on what our culture suitability, by the effects be
reversed - the life - permanently or temporarily.

Without a doubt, includes the Effects of the war to the forces that can produce such regression,
and therefore We do not need all those who behave currently uncultured, culture suitability
to speak, and expect that their drive finishing in quieter times again will produce.

Perhaps but another symptom of our world citizens no less surprised and so painfully felt frightened
as the sinking of their ethical level.



"They drifted at last into Topaz Gulch, Nevada, where Ralph obtained a position as time-keeper
at the Yellow Streak gold mine, and where a little daughter was born to them, whom they named
'Willa'."

Billie started, and her lips opened, but no words came.  Jim Baggott, too, was silent, his
jaw agape and honest eyes almost popping from their sockets.

"When the baby was two years old, Ralph Murdaugh died, after a long illness which ate up the
little they had been able to save.  His wife, destitute and unable to support the child in
any other fashion, turned to her old profession; she became what was known as a song-and-dance
artiste at a hall named for its owner, 'Jake's'.

"Two years later, the dance-hall burned and Violet Ashton, as she called herself once more,
was lost in the holocaust.  As a thoroughly good woman, she had always been held in the utmost
esteem by the community, rough as it was, and the child, Willa, had become a great favorite,
but on her mother's death the problem of caring for her arose.  There were no women in the
town of the proper character to be trusted with her future, and the camp was in a quandary. At a confidential meeting with Dieterich, after I long very much I wish it had
not fallen, the yellow fox face of my host masses allaugenblicks in my room looked, but much has
been made known to me that is not the Junker traveled to Kiel Catherine and since then no one
either in court or garden had been seen, could hardly I still ask the old man, he informs the
young lady, when's would like to meet, my greetings say, and I want to travel soon to the Netherlands,
but still thought to come back sooner, all of which align in spreading it to me then praised.

Came
over me but then the allergroesseste impatience, so I, against the
will of the Surgeon, and before there in the forest nor the last leaves
of the trees fell, my Sit travel to work, even after a short period
Langete safely in my Dutch Capital to, where I was from my friends
even receive loving, and it might also see also remains a happy character
well that two images, so I left there, through the helpful intervention
of my dear master van der Heist both considerable Prices were verkaufet.

Yes, it's was not enough, to me earlier well-weighted Merchant let me say that he had been
waiting for me on that I be married to the Hague for Daughter paint his portrait should, and
I was immediately promised a rich reward. Because I thought if I have such a perfect, then that
enough of the metal, helping my hands were, even without other means of Catherine in a well bestellet
homestead retract.

Made me so, as my kind patron was the selfsame sense, with all the zeal Work, so I soon back for the
day I left, even cheerful close and closer saw, careless with what is before uebles decent over there I
would have to fight.

But human eyes see the darkness not, that is before him .-- And when the image finished and
had plenty of praise and gold for the sake of me to become part because
I could not continued.

I had not respected the work of my weakness, the poorly healed wound threw me again blighted.
Just been to Christmas parties at all the Strassenplaetzen Waffle stalls opened, there began
my infirmity and held me longer than the first time bound.

Although the best Arzteskunst and loving friends care was not a shortage, but perish in anguish
I saw day after day, and no knowledge of it could not come to her.

Finally, after a hard winter, as the Zuiderzee again struck his green waves, directed the friends
tell me the port, but instead of the joyful courage, I took serious heart care now " on board.
  I must congratulate you, my dear,
on your great good fortune."

The erstwhile Billie eyed him steadily.

"Thank you, Mr. North.  You were very kind to spend all that time searching for me, and to
have come this long journey to tell me the truth about myself----"

"Not at all, my dear Miss Murdaugh!"  The lawyer beamed.  "It was a matter of business, you
know, and I am gratified to have brought it to a successful conclusion, but aside from that
I assure you that I am delighted to be of service."

"I can't just believe it yet; it seems as if it must be someone else that all this has happened
to."  She glanced at the still dumfounded Jim in an instinctive appeal.  "Mr. North, if I really
am awake and this is all true----"

"Yes?" he encouraged her, smiling.

"Then--" her little teeth snapped together, and a cold light flashed in her eyes--"I am sorry
you have had your journey for nothing."

"You--I'm afraid I don't understand."

"Please go back, Mr. North, and tell them that Gentleman Geoff's Billie refuses to become Miss
Willa Murdaugh.  I don't want that wicked old man's money, I don't want anything to do with
any of that breed!  If those two poor young folks you tell me about were really my father and
mother, he was as guilty of their deaths as if he'd shot them down in cold blood!  Of course,
he did not need to help them if they defied his wishes, but to starve them, to drive them from
pillar to post and deny them the right to earn the money with which to live, to force other
people to close their doors--oh, he wasn't square!"

"But, my dear young lady!  All that was long ago, and he is dead.  He regretted the past, he
tried to make restitution.  As an evidence of that he has made you his heiress----"

"Not if I refuse."  Her tone was still quiet, but her breast rose and fell convulsively.  "You
said awhile ago that no one need know about my being adopted.  You meant no one need know about
Dad, didn't you?  That I'd been brought up by a gambler in an oil-boom town?  You thought I'd
be ashamed of Dad among all those fine people?  Why, I'm proud of him! Proud that I was known
as his girl!  He took me when nobody else cared whether I lived or died, and he's loved me
and been everything to me ever since I can remember.  And he was square!  It's my own grandfather
that I'm ashamed of for his crookedness!  He stacked the cards, and that's all I need to know
about him.  Give that Mrs. Halstead what she was going to get for making me over into a lady,
and tell her she needn't bother.  I was raised Gentleman Geoff's Billie and that's good enough
for me.  I'm going to stay right here."

"You cannot realize what you are saying!"  Mr. North betrayed symptoms of imminent apoplexy.
"You can have no conception now of what this will mean to you in the future.  Millions are
involved, I tell you, millions!"

"I don't want them," she reiterated doggedly.  "I don't want even the name.  If I've got to
have another, I'll take my mother's--Ashton, wasn't it?"

The rotund little lawyer bounced from his chair and strode up and down before the bar, his
hands clenched behind his back and his mustache bristling.  The girl watched him curiously,
after a brief glance at Jim, who was sitting very straight, obviously fighting back the words
which choked him.

There was a pause, and then North halted before her.

"I trust that you will not complicate matters by adhering to this hasty resolution, Miss Murdaugh.
It is perhaps natural that you should resent the treatment accorded your parents, but the past
is dead and I am convinced that when you will have had time for calm, sober reflection you
will realize the absurdity of attempting to maintain your present attitude.  Fortunately the
decision does not rest with you.  You cannot know your own mind, you are still a minor----"

"Yes."  Billie acquiesced.  "That was why I asked you, first off, just how old I am.  You'll
have a tough time trying to get me out of Mexico if I don't want to go, Mr. North.  I've seen
some law fights over oil leases down here and I know how cases can be strung out.  I'll be
of age in a year and four months and I reckon I can bluff you till then. I don't know why you
should be so anxious to force that money on me and make me acknowledge myself the granddaughter
of a man who didn't play fair!"

"It is entirely for your own benefit.  Surely you can see that?"  The lawyer spoke almost pleadingly.
"It would be idiocy, madness to throw away such a fortune for a quixotic idea!  You have never
come into contact with young people of the class to which you really belong or you would realize
all that circumstances have deprived you of heretofore."

"Oh, I've met one or two."  The girl's lip curled.  "There's a rich young New Yorker down here
now, named Wiley----"

"Indeed?  Starr Wiley?"  Mr. North bit his mustache.  "H'm!  That is awkward, for you will
inevitably encounter him again in the circle to which your cousins belong.  I had hoped--ah,
that you would not be hampered by associations or reminders of your former circumstances, but
Mr. Wiley is a friend and I will see him----"

"Not here, you won't!" growled Jim.  "He's gone."

The girl wheeled upon him, her face darkening.

"Gone where?" she demanded.  "What do you mean, Jim?"

"How should I know where?"  The hotel-keeper shrugged.  "His hacienda is shut up tight, except
for the caretaker.  Reckon he's gone home for good.  It wasn't none too healthy for him around
here."

Billie rose and stumbled to the window.  Across the plaza beyond the flower-market, the Blue
Chip could be discerned in an unfamiliar aspect of transformation.  Scaffolding had been erected
against its walls and their cerulean expanse was being rapidly hidden beneath a coating of
brick red.  Her eyes blurred for a moment, then a swift hardness came into them and her small
fists clenched at her sides.

"We will not discuss the matter of your inheritance, further, for the moment."  The lawyer's
voice, smooth as oil, came from just behind her. "You will listen to reason, I know, when you
have had time for consideration.  Mr. Baggott, here, will agree with me that you must accept
the conditions of your grandfather's will----"

"Mr. Baggott will do nothing of the kind," vociferated that gentleman, suddenly.  "I've listened
to all you had to say, and kept my mouth shet, but since you're bringing me into this, you
might as well know where I stand.  Billie's going to do just what she damn' pleases about this.
She don't need the old scoundrel's money--she's got plenty of her own, and she's not going
to be shanghaied across the border while I'm here to prevent it!"

"Sir----!"

"Never mind, Jim."  The girl wheeled quickly.  "I've changed my mind. Mr. North, I'll go with
you.  I'll accept the conditions and whatever goes with them.  When do we start?"

The lawyer gasped.

"Why--ah, as soon as you can arrange your affairs here.  Allow me to say, my dear Miss Murdaugh,
that I am delighted----"

"That's all right, Mr. North," she cut him short with a weary little gesture.  "I--I guess
I was kind of hasty.  I've got a lot to learn, and a lot to do, and I may as well begin right
away.  If you don't mind, I'll ride back to the Casa de Limas now, and I'll be ready to start
to-morrow morning.  So long, Jim."

Avoiding the bewildered reproach in Jim Baggott's honest eyes, and unmindful of the lawyer's
congratulatory hand, Gentleman Geoff's Billie turned and went out of the door.  A moment later,
the wild scramble of her pinto's hoofs echoed back to them from the hard-packed road.

"Women, my dear Baggott!"  North shrugged expressively.  "They are the curse of the law courts;
they never know their own minds."

"Don't you believe it."  Jim awoke from his stupor.  "Billie knows her'n, all right.  She's
got something up her sleeve, you can bank on that, and its an ace card in whatever game she's
playing.  But what in tarnation the stakes are that she's after is more'n I know.  I don't
envy you, Mr. North, you and that lady that's going to make our Billie over.  You'd better
take off your coat and spit on your hands, for you've got the stiffest job ahead of you that
you ever tackled. There's a joker wild, somewhere, and she's playing to win!"

CHAPTER VI

TIA JUANA'S CAULDRON COOLS

Limasito received the tidings of the amazing turn in the affairs of Gentleman Geoff's Billie
with mingled emotions in which pride and respectful awe predominated, but to Kearn Thode it
came as an uncomprehended disaster.

In vain he told himself that he should rejoice at her change of fortune; that he had divined
from the moment of their first meeting the subtle shade of difference in caste between the
young girl and those who surrounded her, and strove to exult that she had indeed come into her own.

A strange, unacknowledged depression assailed him.  His proffered aid had once more proved
superfluous; the young relative of the Ripley Halsteads and heiress of Giles Murdaugh would
have no need of the good offices of his sister, nor in their reversed positions would his friendship
be as instrumental in her future as he had hoped.

She was quick-witted and adaptable; she would be a tremendous social success with a little
expert coaching, and he----?  A petroleum engineer, a mere cog in the wheel of a great corporation,
without prospects other than might lie in the success of his present doubtful mission, could
be of no future interest to Willa Murdaugh.

Decency demanded that he congratulate her on her good fortune, he assured himself as he rode
out that evening to the Casa de Limas.  But decency did not explain or defend the fact that
he roweled his willing pinto all the way, and arrived in a state of mind that was the reverse
of felicitation.

She received his forced greeting with the matter-of-fact directness which was characteristic
of her.

"Yes.  It's a pretty big thing to have come to me all of a sudden," she remarked, "but I reckon
it isn't going to carry me off my feet.  Dad always told me never to start anything I couldn't
finish, and although this seems to have been kind of started for me before I was born, I reckon
I can see it through.  I never guessed I wasn't Dad's own girl and I'd just as lief never have
known, but it's going to work in with what I want to do."

"Of course!"  He essayed to speak lightly.  "Your future is assured now, the future your--Gentleman
Geoff wanted you to have.  It sounds like presumption now; my offer to take you to my sister----"

"Why?"  Her clear eyes turned wonderingly on him in the moonlight, and he mentally cursed his
dog-in-the-manger mood.  "I thought it was real kind of you, kinder than anything that anyone
except Dad has ever done. I didn't even have a name, you know.  I was just the daughter of--what
did that lawyer call him?--a 'peripatetic gambler', but you--you----"

She broke off in sudden confusion, and he drew a swift breath.

"You were yourself, and I told you that nothing else mattered."  His tone was very low.

"But I'm something else, now."  There was a note of shy, wistful eagerness in her voice.  "I--I'm
Willa Murdaugh and that seems to mean a lot, up in New York.  I'm not just Gentleman Geoff's
Billie, I'm going to be a lady, like your sister----"

"You will be a much more important one, with a highly exalted social position and hosts of
influential friends," he responded slowly.  "You will meet her, she is an acquaintance of the
Halsteads and their set, but you will find her a simple, unfashionable girl, compared to the
rest.  If you had gone to make your home with her, as I suggested, you would not have known
the smart crowd that will flock about you now, but clever people who have done or are doing
big things.  I wonder how the social life will strike you?"

"All of a heap, I expect," she replied, absently.  Her voice was colorless, stunned.  "That
was what you meant, that I should go and live with your sister?  And you, would you have been
there, too?"

"I?" he laughed with a trace of bitterness.  "I am a rolling stone, Miss Murdaugh. 

Meanwhile, Adolf was gone from the room to discuss his trip with his sister Maria and to order that
this be repaired his horse and his arms began. He had also carried notifies a loyal servant De
Coninck and Breydel and asked about the young Countess to watch. That was certainly unnecessary,
as the fox Dietrich already with secret orders Weber had been to. As soon as Adolf returned to
Dietrich rose from his chair and said:

"Mr. van Nieuwland, I can not stay longer. Be patient now, please, just a little, so I give your
face the required age.

Fear not that it hurt you somehow could begin, and let me right. "

The knight sat in front of Dietrich in a chair and leaned back in his head. Machteld; that this could
not understand everything, stood beside them in wonder. Curious, she pursued as Dietrich's finger
on Adolf's face numerous gray spots and black lines. With each stroke the maiden more astonished,
because the moves of the Knight changed and reminded of her father. On seeing this miracle of
the virgin heart beat even impetuous.

When all the lines right then stood, humidified Dietrich Adolf cheeks and forehead with a blue
water and asked him to get up.

"We are ready," he said, "You like Mr. van Bethune as if you two children
of the same If you were his father.

And I had not even been redesigned to you, I would you with the name the illustrious lions welcome.
Yes, believe me, I feel really awe Your new face. "

The young Machteld stood speechless in front like a madman Adolf.

She could not see enough and looked alternately the two knights, just after the declaration of an
incomprehensible Process asks. Mr. Bethune was like Adolf van so well that they might have
thought her Father really stands before her.

"Mr. van Nieuwland," Dietrich said the fox, "if you run your noble
project happy will, it is advisable that we return in a hurry.

If you an enemy or unfaithful Servant sees the case, then your float
in the greatest danger, risking your life useless to .

Set "

Adolf saw that he spoke the truth.

"Farewell, noble virgin," he cried, "Farewell and think sometimes of your servant Adolf."

She gulped down the tears that shone even in her eyes, and broke their green Veil.

"Here," she said, "Receive the gratitude of the hands of your sister.

He likes you to remember that your noble deed will never forget.

It is my favorite color.

"

The Knights dropped to one knee when he received this pledge, and pressed it with a grateful
glance to his lips.

"Oh, Machteld," he cried, "I have not deserved this favor. Would like some day the moment To come
because I can shed my blood for the house of Flanders: I'm going to your Friendship and kindness
show worthy. "

"It is time, please, interrupt your thanks," Dietrich noted.

"Farewell, Machteld,"

"Farewell, Adolf!"

And the knight quickly left the room. In court, he swung into the saddle and Dietrich; few moments
later echoed the deserted streets of the city by the passage of two horses again, until they
disappeared under the Ghent gate.

XI.

In 1280 a disastrous fire had destroyed the old building on the market completely. There was The wooden
tower with all legal documents of the city of Bruges risen in flames. Only a few massive walls
of the bottom floor had been spared, and with them some space, which
were sometimes as guard-rooms.

The French soldiers had abandoned this Walls elected collection space, and here they spent their
free time to indulge and games.

Some time after the departure of Adolf van Nieuwland were eight French soldiers in one of the most
remote areas of the conflagration. A large earthen lamp lit up the darkened Faces of the warriors,
and curling her smoke rose up to the vault.

On the walls could to notice the glaring lamplight some ornaments in the Roman style. A female
Statue without hands, whose face was disfigured by the time all stood in a niche of the room.
Four soldiers were sitting at a heavy oak tables and gambling eagerly.

Several others stood by and followed closely the game.

Apparently these people were not here come the dice alone: ​​they
had helmets on, and broad swords hanging from their Belts, as if it
were up to fight.

After a few moments one of the players stood up and angrily threw the dice aside.

"I think the old Breton has no clean finger," he said. "That would be very strange indeed If I win
under fifty litters should not even. I have no desire to play, I stop. "

"You want to play any more," said the jubilant winner.

"What the devil, John, your pocket is surely not empty! - Your Flee
so before the enemy "?

»Dare it again," said another, "perhaps the luck turns."

The mercenaries, who was named Johann wavered long, if he try his luck again should at last he reached
into his coat of mail and pulled out a shiny jewelry. It was a necklace of the finest pearls
with a golden lock.

"There," he said, "I use these beads against your profit: the finest
cord, depending on has flashed neck of a Flemish woman!

If I lose again this time, I have no Härlein of the spoils. "

The Breton took the jewelry in his hand and looked at him curiously.

"Well, it is," he cried;! "In how many litters?"

"In two," replied John, "You throw first."

A heap of gold pieces lay on the table next to the precious jewels. All eyes were followed in
oppressive power of the rolling dice, and the hearts of the players
knocked violently.

When first litter seemed fortunate Johann smile, for he threw ten, his partner five only. While
he now gave the hope of recovering his money, he saw that the Breton
the dice secretly led to his mouth and bathed in one place.

When he saw that his deception of losses was to blame, anger and revenge drove him blood to his
head. He did, however, when he had nothing seen, and said:

"So throw; what you hesitating? Are you afraid? "

"No, no," cried the Breton, and let the dice roll quickly out of the hands. "Happiness can contact
- Do not you see? Twelve! "

Now John threw the dice carelessly on the table.

Since he unfortunately this time only six received, the Breton took
with shouts of joy in the jewels and hid it under his armor.

John wished him luck with forced rest to his winnings, and seemed
about the loss not to grieve much.

But in his heart devoured by secret Grimm, and he could only difficult to retain. While the happy
winner said with another fellow, "whispered Johann those who stood with him, something in his
ear and his eyes shone through the Bretons their attention to suggest,
then he cried:

"Since you've won from me everything, pal, you will
not refuse me the happiness yet to try again.

I put the money we earn this evening, for an equivalent Sum. Do you with? "

"Of course, I never soft!"

John took the dice and threw eighteen in twice. Now, while the other of the dice the board took
hold and she seemed when talking to quite unintentionally in his hand, gave the Soldiers find
out exactly Johann eight.

They saw clearly that the Breton the dice again led to his lips, and gave thanks to this list
once again ten and twelve.

"You lost, friend John," he said.

A terrible blow was the answer to this call, blood pouring from his mouth, and for a moment he was
quite stunned, because the blow had shattered his brain.

! Your "a rogue, a thief are," shouted John, "I have even seen how your dice machtet me so wet and betroget
for my money!

You shall play me everything, or ... "

The Breton could not continue it.

He drew his broad sword and fell in appalling Insults at him go.

Even John had made himself ready to fight and vowed bloody revenge.
But it never came.

Even the two blades flashing in the lamplight already, and all announced inevitable bloodshed came
as another war in the room.

His proud and commanding views of the contestants made him at once as supervisor indicated. And
the soldiers were in his view, the silent curses and bad words and the swords went quickly into the
vagina.

John and the Breton heralded each other by looks, that the fight was only postponed, and stood
with the others to their superiors, who asked:

"Are you ready, people?"

"We're

finished, Mr. de Cressin," it sounded back.

"Watch the greatest silence, she took de Cressin the word," and do
not forget that the house, in the leads of these citizens, is under
the protection of our generals Châtillon.

The first, of anything touching it will bitterly regret. You follow me. "

The citizen, who served as servants of the French war leader, was
just that master Brakel, the LELIAERT, who had been expelled from
the weavers' guild.

As the mercenaries with their leaders were on the road, went ahead Brakel silently and led her
through the darkness in the Spanish road to the door of Mr van Nieuwland apartment. This raises
the mercenary along the wall, and barely breathing, so that no one
noticed their presence.

Champion Brakel let the knocker fall down the door softly. After a few moments there was a maid in
the corridor and asked suspiciously, who is knocking so late.

"Open quickly," Brakel replied, "I come from a master piece de Coninck News for Virgin Machteld
van Bethune. Hesitates for a moment, for the virgin in great danger. "

The maid was far from suspecting betrayal. She pulled back the bolt and opened the Door faster
than otherwise well.

But how great was their dismay, when eight French soldiers Vlaemen behind her burst into the hall.
Her shrill cry echoed in the most remote Rooms of the house, and
she wanted to save themselves by flight.

But Cressin held her back.

"Where is your mistress, Machteld van Bethune?" Cressin asked in a cold peace.

"Machteld Countess has already gone for two hours to rest, and now
she is asleep," stammered the frightened maid.

"Go to it," said the commander, "and tells her she should get dressed, for they must rely on the
site of this house and follow us. Be obedient, for I was sorry if I had to use force. "

The maid walked in anxious haste up the stairs and woke Adolf's sister.

"Oh,

lady," she cried, "is to fast the whole house full of soldiers!"

"Heaven," Mary said in a trembling voice, "what you say?

Soldiers in our home? What do they? "

"They want to lead away the Countess van Bethune immediately. Please hurry, because she is still
asleep - I afraid the soldiers would pass into her room.

"

Hastily, without a response threw the frightened Maria has a wide
gown and went with the maid Mr de Cressin, which was still standing
in the aisle.

Two servants of the house were on the noise the maid came running
and were discouraged from the French soldiers.

They had it is packed and stored.

"Sir," asked Maria the leader, "will you tell me why your so at night in permeates my apartment? "

"Yes,
noble lady," they got the answer, "it is done on the orders of provincial governor. Machteld
Countess van Bethune, who lives here must follow us immediately.

Fear not that bad, they treated. I pledge you my honor, that no word is to offend them. "

"Oh, sir," cried Mary, "If you only knew what your lot prepared for
the maiden, would you empty-thing to go away again, because I understand
from your words that you are an honorable Knights are.

"

"You're right, I'm not fond of such enterprises, but the command of my generals I must run on
time. Wollet me, then deliver the Virgin Machteld; we can not wait
longer.

Spare me severe measures. "

Maria saw that nothing could avert the blow, but they conceal their deep sorrow against the
foreign soldiers, and did not cry.

With evident disgust, they looked at the Vlaemen, who stood in a
corner of the Ganges, and their eyes seemed to him to accuse his betrayal.

Champion Brakel was not bold enough to see the indignant maid's eyes. Trembling he was now aware
of the revenge would follow him, and retreated a few steps as if to flee.

"One that Vlaemen guard, shouted to his men Cressin," let him not
go, for he who as he tells his friends, is capable of anything.

"

Champion Brakel was packed by the arm and pushed with violence between
the soldiers. > Traitor < he was reviled, and contempt for the men
to whom he had served, was his reward.

Maria left the hall and entered troubled heart in Machteld bedroom, as if frozen They remained by the
bed and looked at the unhappy girl, was sleeping soundly.

A bright tear glistened on his eyelashes, and the breathing was heavy and feverish. Suddenly
It took his hand from under the blanket and stretched them, as if
it would scare away a bugbear.

From the incomprehensible mumbling repeatedly sounded Adolf's name like a cry for help.

Tears broke from Mary's eyes, the sight of her hand deep into the heart, and her pity grew
even at the thought of the suffering that was to endure the poor
maiden henceforth.

But as much as they were also tortured to make her unhappy friend
the message, they could not delay, time was precious.

Every moment could connect the mercenaries in the room, and the terror,
grief which would have seen the noble Machteld!

Recognizing this, she took the hand of her friend and woke her with the words:

"My dear Machteld keep watch on, I say to you in a hurry."

Touching Marias had frightened the maiden violently, she opened her eyes wide and trembling, while
her friend looked uncertain.

? "Is it you, Mary," she said, rubbing the tearful eyes, "which leads you to such unusual Hour to
me? "

"Oh, my poor Machteld," said Maria, weeping, "stands up. Here is your dress, - is rapidly, a great
misfortune upon you. "

Startled, jumped up and looked Machteld Maria anxiously, who was crying bitterly, while Machteld
she dressed. Only when she handed her a long riding habit, she answered a deep sigh:

"You go on trips, noble lady, St. George, protect you!"

"But why this riding habit, my dear Mary? Ah, now I see that my lot
is waiting!

My nightmare has come true: as your wecktet me, I found myself in France, Johanna of Navarre. O
God, now all hope is gone!

I will not again see the beautiful Flanders and you, my dear Leo, you're better father, your
child may no longer be in this World meet again ... "

Maria gramverzehrt had settled into a chair and sobbed silently. You could not bring himself
to confirm the fears of her friend. After a few moments submitted to it the frightened Machteld's
neck and said:

"Weep not for me, dear, dear friend. Long ago I'm with misfortune and misery familiar, for the
House of Flanders, all the rest, all the joy there.

"

"Unfortunately, precious little girl," sobbed Mary, "You do not know that down below French Your
mercenaries are waiting in that you will continue on the spot.

"

The pale maiden shuddered at these words.

"Mercenaries," she said. "Should I be exposed to the brutality of
base hirelings? Oh dear Maria, restraint, me ... O God, I could die
now! Robrecht, Robrecht only knew you, what Shame your child happens!
"

"Do not be amazed that; an honorable knight is with them."

"That
is unfortunate because the time had come, and I must leave you, Mary,
and the evil queen Navarre me will imprison like my father. But it
was! There is a protector in heaven who will not leave me ... "

"It
is quickly in your riding habit, I hear the footsteps of the mercenaries."

While
Machteld attracted the dress, the door opened. The maid came in and
said:

"The French gentleman wants to know whether the girl van Bethune
was ready, and whether it wishes you must appear. "

may He come,
"was Mary's response.

Mr. de Cressin had followed the maid, and entered
immediately into the room. He bowed Before Virgin, and he read pity
in his eyes that he reluctantly this job executed.

"Countess," he
said, "it suggests to me not mind if I ask you, me on the spot . Follow
I should not hesitate a moment longer. "

"I'm going to add obedient,"
replied Machteld, which held back her tears. "I hope Sir, that you
will protect me from all reproach. "

"I assure you, noble lady,"
cried Cressin, the maid did the resignation, "that You no harm will
be inflicted as long as you are under my protection. "

"But your
soldiers, sir?"

"My soldiers, Miss, you should not say a word. This
insurance may satisfy you. "

The two girls embraced each other tenderly,
and shed many tears. Repeated again and again to the bitter words
of separation, time and again they fell around his neck. Finally followed
to the knight in the corridor.

"Oh, sir," cried Mary, "tell me, where
are you leading my unfortunate friend!"

"To France," said Cressin,
and the soldiers he commanded:

"Heed my words! - Who in the presence
of this lady says an unseemly word is strictly punished. I will that
they are treated by their illustrious in style. Does the horse before!
"

Machteld wept quietly under the veil that covered her face. Maria
gave a hand grasped, and both stood motionless as statues. Words is
not enough to their bitter pain of parting express.

When the horses
were brought to the door, helped Mr. de Cressin Machteld light on
Traber. Brakel master and the servants were released and the train
moved away quickly through the streets of Bruges. A few moments later
they were in open fields, on paths Machteld see what could not. The
night was dark, and solemn stillness lay on the latent nature. Mr.
de Cressin always remained at Machteld page. Because he, in its Sorrow
not want to disturb it and would not speak to her in silence, perhaps
the journey completed, have if he had not spoken to the young Machteld
first.

"Is it allowed to me, my Lord, to know something about my
future fate, and may I question of who is the command that pulls me
out of my apartment? "

"The order was given to me by M. de Chatillon,"
said De Cressin. "Probably He comes from a higher side as the target
of your trip is Compiègne. "

"Yes, sobbed," the troubled girl, "Joan
of Navarre to expect. My father and imprison all of my blood relatives
was not enough, I still it lacks. Now is their revenge complete. O
my Lord, you have a bad queen! "

"A man ought not to have my say.
It is true, madam, our Queen treated Vlaemen the very strict, and
I have most intimate sympathy for Mr van Bethune, but I can do not
listen to that one reviles my princess. "

"Forgive! Your chivalrous
loyalty deserves my respect. I shall not be your queen more action
and lead count myself fortunate in my misfortune such an honorable
knight the leader to have. "

"It would be a real pleasure to me,
your nobles to accompany her to Compiègne, but that honor I have not
intended. In fifteen minutes you get a different society, but that
may change your position in nothing, never forget the French knights,
what the women guilty. "

"It is true, sir, the French knights are
very polite and kind to us; but if me a guarantee that I will always
have an escort, which my position adequately is it? "

"Oh! this would
certainly be the case.

"I knew where you were, you see," she exclaimed calmly.  "There was something I had to attend to."

"Telegrams to your friends?  Surely they might have waited until a more suitable time!  You
have caused me great anxiety----"

"I'm sorry if I worried you, Mr. North."  Her tone was chastened, but there was an undernote
of warning.  "I've been free so long that I kind of forget I'm under extradition."

A wave of contrition swept over his ill-humor as her slim-clad figure preceded him out to the
waiting motor.  She had been coolly insubordinate, of course, but she was young and very much
alone in a strange environment.  She could be led, perhaps, but she would never be driven.

Cesare, the Halsteads' chauffeur, touched the brim of his cap smartly, and Willa bestowed upon
him a dazzling smile.  Only the snap of the limousine door prevented her shaking hands.

"He looks like a right-nice boy," she remarked naïvely.  "Do you suppose he'll teach me how
to drive a car of my own?"

"If he is told to do so," Mr. North replied with dignity, "and it is decided that you are to
have a car."

She darted an appraising glance at him, but he vaguely felt a certain ambiguous quality in
the silence which followed, and congratulated himself that they had reached their journey's end.

Mrs. Ripley Halstead awaited them in the drawing-room.  She was a tall, commanding woman in
the indefinite forties, with a high, thin nose and cold, slightly protruding eyes.  Her dark
hair, still untouched by gray, was arranged in a modishly severe fashion and her smile extended
no farther than her straight lips.

"So this is our little cousin?"  She brushed the girl's cheek with a light kiss.  "My dear
Willa, words cannot express our pleasure that you have been found at last, we have doubted
and feared for so long.  I hope that you will be very happy here with us, and I am sure that
we shall all manage famously."

"Thank you," Willa murmured, through stiffened lips.  "This situation has been kind of thrust
on both of us, but I reckon we can make the best of it."

The lady gasped and turned to the attorney, who was watching with a gleam of speculation in
his eye.

"Mason, we have much to thank you for in restoring our young relative to us, but I must defer
that now.  You will dine with us?"

"Thank you, no."  He bowed over her hand.  "To tell you the truth, I am rather fagged out from
my trip, and I am anxious to get on up-town. Please, tell Ripley that I will see him to-morrow,
and transfer the necessary papers to him.--Au revoir, my dear.  Try to remember what I have
told you."

Willa stared with dazed eyes about the pretty room to which she was ushered.  The furniture
was of ivory and dull gold, the walls, draperies and floor a soft French blue, and delicate
rose-shaded lights glowed delicately in many brackets.

The drawing-room she had taken as a matter of course; it impressed her as being not unlike
that of the big hotel at Tampico, but to be expected to live and move around and sleep in this
fragile, stifling, cluttered doll's house of a room was unthinkable.  It was hers, the maid
had said so; therefore, she would make the best of it, in her own fashion.

A half-hour later the house-maid presented herself at Mrs. Halstead's door in a state bordering
on hysteria.

"If you please, Madame, the young lady, Miss Murdaugh, has taken her room all to pieces.  The
draperies' are down from the windows and piled in a corner with the cushions from the chaise
longue, and the bed is moved over to the windows and stripped down to the blanket.  All the
rose shades are off the lights and the furniture is pushed back against the wall.  Miss Murdaugh
rang for me just now to take all the drapery and things out of the room, and I thought I had
better come to you."

Mrs. Halstead stepped forward, but stopped with a slight compression of her lips.

"Very well, Katie.  You may remove them, for the time being.  I will see Miss Murdaugh about
it later."

When the housemaid had withdrawn, her mistress dropped rather than seated herself in the nearest
chair.  The mechanical smile had vanished and her eyes narrowed.  She foresaw friction ahead.

Willa, serenely unconscious that she had offended, slipped into the one thin black gown which
she possessed, a mail-order purchase which had given her immense satisfaction, but when dinner
was announced and she descended the stairs, she paused aghast at the splendor before her.

A girl stood in the drawing-room door in a marvelous creation which seemed made of diamond-tipped,
rainbow-tinted mist.  From it her youthful shoulders and slim neck rose creamily, surmounted
by a small head banded boyishly with golden hair. 

As with any change of emperor, it was also at the death of Muley-Abd-er-Rahman's great unrest
and feuds erupted over the succession. It was above all the eldest son of Sultan Sliman, Named
Muley Abd-er-Rahman-Ben-Sliman, who hoped with the help of the French, the throne of his Father
to win again, but he still help his son pleading to just the Suppression of the Beni Snassen
employed French General Martimprey sent could he does not pay. As also was the first son of the
late Sultan, and older brother of the reigning, he was driven from the field, and was mentioned
as the first Tafilet relegated to [92]. The reigning Sultan Sidi Mohammed owed its rapid Installirung
mainly to the fact that Sidi el Hadj-Abd-es-Ssalam of Uesan for he explained that he had in the
lifetime of the father Califa, ie Deputy Sultan and have a great treasure had been accumulated,
and that Ben Thaleb, the governor of Fes, immediately claimed responsibility for his party.

[Footnote
92: The two princes, who I met there in 1863, lived in voluntary exile, although it is said
in Morocco, the government had banned it there.

      The situation is such that when the Sultan of his brother and cousin
       get hold of could, he would surely put to death.]
       
       The Basha of Old Fez, however, was not so easy game, because if
       Faradji, the Governor of New Fez, the current Sultan took Panier,
so did this with his few Soldiers to do enough to the palace of the
Sultan and New Fez from looting and attack .

Protect Ben had Thaleb but except for a dozen Maghaseni (tab) only from his own Berbers armed
with guns, perhaps 50 men available. The present Sultan was the army so far from the capital.

One of the main districts of the city, the Djemma Muley Edris, preferably Schürfa (Mohammed's descendants)
lived outraged then immediately after the death of Abd-er-Khaman's and cried the eldest son
of the Sultan of Sliman's successor.

But they were not on Ben Thaleb's iron energy expected: he had almost all quarters of the adult
men , Decimate the houses of the most Schürfa were razed to the ground, and all that remained
alive, was deprived of his property. Now those who know what it means a sheriff in Morocco
insult punish or even kill, can imagine the excitement This process caused Thaleb Ben, who did
not even Arabs, let sheriff, but was only a Brebber [93]. But the Berber-layers was not the
man to be intimidated, other hand, he distributed to other areas of the city per 2000 Metkal,
a wholly-like Penny for 17 quarters. So he brought by severity and goodness so, that the present Fes
Sultan immediately recognized, and as the cousin of the Sultan and his army against the capital
moved, he was by the people of Fes, were at their peak and Ben Faradji Thaleb, receive hostile and
had to flee, as drew near Sidi Mohammed, this was the Gates open, and thus had a sultan of Morocco,

[Footnote
93: name of Berbers in Morocco. We see from this that the Arabs the delusion that Muhammad taught
the Arab people was better than any other, yet always maintained. It was This significantly
to the destruction of the Arab people in, because as the arrogance of the Jews the chosen people
of God to be hard enough to atone.]

      Guests at the Basha's, I moved with my interpreter, which is the main
       man of the regular army the Sultan, was a room that belonged to the
       private mosque of the Basha's, which is equal Situated next to his
       official residence. With increasing heat was the visit to that Room
       unbearable soon, and asked one day when the Baasha, as I do with
       my treatment was satisfied, I made him aware of the unbearable heat.

He called one of his Servants and asked him what apartment near his, was to have on the spot; This
marked a lovely summer home, which located, though in the city, a lovely garden, had crossed
by the Fes-river would bumped at the home of Baasha "But, he added, the sheriff, it belongs
to, has been his summer residence in it taken. "" Go on the spot and tell him I need his apartment,
"was the Basha's short answer is "And you Mustafa," [94] He continued, "can move today, and
will now . Be satisfied with me "The sheriff, however, seemed to have no particular hurry,
and perhaps thought He also, because he sheriff (descendant of Mohammed), be able to defy the
orders. In short, when I visited the next day Ben Thaleb and he asked me about my apartment,
had I confess I was, because the owner still would be in his house, nor in my-room mosque.
But hardly let me finish the Basha, a servant was called, He was ordered on the spot with
its movable property, the sheriff on the street to share, so it happened, and I could move on
the same day. It would be of no use have, I would have delicately to distribute to this command,
the owner of his possession, want to protest, no one would understand such behavior, as the
infallible Behavior, ie, arbitrary conduct, has been transferred from the Sultan on his officials.

[Footnote
94: This was my adopted name in Morocco.]

The following now also sheds light on the summary trial in Morocco and Fez at all, and here I
write these lines literally out of my time out from your notebook.

The new house, which I referred, has a floor and is not the type of houses in Fes established,
but built by different rules.

      Located in the garden lying flows under the house of the little Oued
Fes, which appears here in the garden and in a 4 'deep and 6' wide
stone gutter runs until he comes to a veranda of the house opposite,
and this other enters into a garden.

The house itself has a spacious veranda below, a Salon and a room that is like alcove (a type of Kubba)
rear mounted, above are three rooms that we left uninhabited, as
the flat roof was rarely used.

Me passed as an interpreter attached officer slept with me in the rear alcove-like rooms, and
in the single door, which led to the lounge to sleep, three, two other servants in the porch,
and two were in the opposite porch, where we for convenience, our Horses had displayed. Sun guards,
we did not in the least to theft, also in Fes at night, because the individual districts, as
mentioned earlier are completed, Communication is the big repealed entirely.

One evening we had, the Kaid or captain and I, lying on our carpet, late Tea drunk in the evening,
the silver moonlight, lapping over the edge of the river, with fragrant orange trees, we had
forgotten the time, and the Muden ilul (the first Avertissement becomes a prayer even in the
summer by 1 clock in the morning, where from the minarets) was heard, as we went to sleep.
We might have slept almost half an hour, as one of the Servant "Sserakin, Sserakin" (thieves,
thieves) called. We all ran out armed with rifles, but nothing was found. But how would a thief
come in and out as quickly be: on three sides of the garden had almost
20 feet high walls, and the fourth side led by means of a vertical
wall about 30 feet high wall in another garden, impossible he could
be here jumped down.

However, we found, returned to our dwelling, that really is a thief had been there, it was
missing from my clothes that I had passed, trousers, slippers, then the turban of the captain,
also a first-day before with broken loaf of sugar, and finally our whole teaset, property
of the Basha's. A more detailed It was found that the thief under the garden gate worked his way
through, and probably had already made several transitions.

On the next morning was our display were from Ben Thaleb All the dwelling around Citizens arrested,
they had to replace the things in common, each also a 20 "Real" (That's called the French five
francs pieces) Caution succumbed to the thief of them would be self-determined. With Real's
slaying of the 20 they gained their freedom but, but I do not think they ever returned to their
money, should they have succeeded the thief be determined. I notice hiebei that I some years
later in Leptis Magna practice by the Turkish authorities, a similar judicial looked like one
of my servants from the tent at night a gun was stolen.

In addition to the two governors of the city there are then head of
the individual quarters, Head of the mosques, the money collector,
Marktvögte a Marktkaid the Kessaria, and Marktkaid one of the great,
once a week, held outside the city market.

The Marktvögte and Marktkaid have to settle the obligation primarily disputes and to keep
order. At each gate, one finds a Kaid el Bab, to open the gates and to close, and to levy the tariff
has, it is then a main customs office in the city, as authorities are at last call or the guild
master, as each trade to a guild is connected, which is headed by a master who has the title Kebir.

The
immediate neighborhood of the city shows in the north, east and west, the most flourishing gardens
one can only imagine, in the southwest suburbs are, almost at all the gates to draw rows of
graves and God's lands ", of which some outwardly quite impressive looking large grave monuments
exhibit have.

However, lies in these imperial monuments grave a certain uniformity, all have square, about
an octagonal or square or round whole roof. Inside, one finds usually a sarcophagus, covered
with cloth often, but often only consisting of a wooden frame. In addition to such main tomb
is found sometimes two to six and even more smaller simple graves, either there were children of the
buried here Prince or sometimes noble and size of the country, the amounts of money to the
right acquired, to be buried alongside her sultan. From the reigning Dynasty is no one buried in
or outside Fez ', she has her burial in Mikenes.

A large and for us Europeans almost unbearable inconvenience is that close to the gates the rotting
mountains, often 50 feet high, are of crepirten animals; for centuries there is a custom of each dead
livestock to bring all filth to the gates of the city but so close This contamination is due to the
hill built that it is a pain, out of town out and get in the same inside.

The dominant city of the mountain which encircles the north and northwest is the same, called
Djebel-Ssala, he has maybe 1000 feet absolute altitude. Under the pretext of herbs Search for
Baasha Ben Thaleb to do, I got permission to ride up one day; by a wide belt laughing fig and orange
groves, where also peaches, apricots, Shells, wine and cherries are drawn, you get into Oelwaldungen,
the second third is of evergreen oaks, composed from the leaves and other Lentisken not losing
trees, the last third has only scrub and dwarf palm trees.

On top of the mountain, from which one can magnificent survey of the city, according to the level
up to the big over the atlas and West has pulling Serone Mountains, I met a hermit, Sidi Moussa,
has been 50 years in a cave in the mountains Ssala alive. The reputation of great sanctity, he
lives by the gifts of the pilgrims, but also a large beekeeping. On the plateau of Mount Ssala
Several sources, and even gardens and agriculture.

As for the people of Fes, which we estimate to 100,000 souls, and the of the cholera in 1859,
probably even more was 20.000, it is preferably the same of Arabs and Berbers.

While, however, is much rarer in the countryside, the mixture of Berbers and Arabs, is they more common
in the cities, however, but not the kind that one might say, a people have absorbed the other.
Externally, the difference between the people of Fes, like that of the other towns of the rural
people by great white skin, but it has the only due to the fact that they are almost never
exposed to the sun, because even if the Roads go, these are so narrow that they shone for a
short time by the sun. Frequently the subject of corpulence in women is also looking for just the
fact that they little exercise, little exercise at a relatively strong
food have.

In general, despite the very light complexion, the people of Fes very ugly, especially often
found bulging Lips and frizzy, long hair though. Negro blood is unmistakable, as in general
in Morocco much Negro blood has gone to Arabs.

Fez from the other cities the country still stands by the fact that the Arab and Berber elements
heavily Jewish is mixed. Not by voluntary marriages, but by that nice Jewish girls are forced
into the harem of the Sultan or the Grand Empire to connect or by forced crossing, through
kidnapping, so care for the other Inhabitants of the land by the families to say in Fes: half
of them have Jewish blood in their veins.

The number of Jews in Fez, which, like all Moroccan, in part direct from Palestine migrated,
in part of Spain are expelled back, may amount to 8 to 10.000. They live here as miserable as
in other Moroccan cities. The late Sultan Abd-er-Rahman thought he could enforce it, to give the Jews
a kind of emancipation, Jews and Moslems with the same costumes allowed. The first unfortunates
who dared Melha his (the Jewish Ghetto), with a red fez, with yellow slippers turned to leave,
never back: he was stoned. The sultan had, in spite of his infallibility, no power to curb the
religious-fanatic Wuthausbruch his subjects.

The religious fanaticism, so inherent in all Semitic religions, is in general a the bad sides of
the inhabitants of Fez. How often have I myself from some rags stopped on the street saw me with
the words "damage had," testify that the way represented, and let
he and the rapidly accumulating set me safely pass not more, until
I had said "Lah Laha il il Allah," the well known formula of the Moslem
faith.

The dress of the people of Fes, the rest of the townspeople, that it can only by the his speech,
the clothes of the rich as a poor man's only Haik, that is a long white woolen Wraps and a calico shirt
underneath has to wear, but otherwise barefoot and bareheaded comes along. In the course of the
winter woolen Burnus is dragged over it, sometimes in black, is sometimes made of white wool.

The
suit of the wealthy resident of Fes, however, is much richer. On the head with he called a
high peaked red fez, Saschia around which a white turban, Rasa, is
wound.

Over a long white cotton shirt, Camis, complete a cloth vest with many buttons, and up top
and then tightly buttoned, Ssodria, then a Tuchkaftan from loud colors and a wide pants, Ssrual,
the suit, yellow slippers are the footwear. Most young men and women wear rings made of silver
with worthless stones, some have rings with stones, which can be dissolved in water (according
to the statement of the owner), and resolution then a remedy for
poisoning.

That ring possessed Ben Thaleb well, but he did not escape his death.

Very unpleasant to the horrible filth which prevails everywhere, the clothes are never changed, but,
once dressed, always day and night, so long on the body worn until it procures new clothes. However,
Leo speaks of great public Laundries in Fes, I was unfortunately
not in my time such constatiren.

The rich people buy once, probably twice a year, a new suit, on the occasion a big celebration.
have grown old, the next, the children, relatives, servants, or also poor friends to carry on.
The poor man buys after he saved a long time out a suit defines him but then never again until
it has become absolutely useless. Course held once a year, a large laundry, general clothes instead:
on the day before the aid-el-Kebir, the great Bairain the Turks. Since that day appears every cleaned, who
it can buy a new dress, and who is not, but it keeps as clean as possible to appear, so we see
the day before the aid-el-Kebir the world, young and old, men and women hastening the water parks,
one gets rid of the clothes and obsessively Everyone is dancing and jumping around on his testimony,
to herauszustampfen with their feet the years of dirt: a simple hand
washing would not do enough.

The national dish of Fessler is also Kuskussu - a flour dish, which consists of beaded Wheat or barley
flour and prepared by means of steam cooked. The supplies, however, near Sebu excellent fish
that are found in a spicy tomato and red colored Oelsauce can always get ready in the market place.
Mutton, goat and sheep meat is also cheap to have, and probably more in Fes animal food is
consumed than in all other Country, the cities ruled together.

Like all Moroccans, are also big fans of Thee Fessler, who served before the meal is, to eat
the style is just as dirty in the principal Fessler, as in the whole Country. Several people sit
around an earthen bowl, in a low table, such as is applied called two inches high, Maida. All
crouches on the ground, in such a position, as every one wants to take it and, once a slave society
or a water for washing of the hands has passed around, then you rinse it off, and a common hand
towel in the Rich used for drying, in nots dries you simply hands with the corner his burnous. Then, at a given
signal, engages with the word "bi"

Ssm 'Allah' (For God) every one to lead with his right hand into the bowl to the snatched morsels
to his mouth. All devote themselves an extraordinary haste in order not to be missed out, only
at very Rich will eat slowly, because there followed several bowls. There is one good way to
Tone for the women, servants and children, or for the poor, loitering, decency chunks to leave in
the bowl. A major award but it at least for a stranger if the landlord even ride with his dirty
hand into the bowl, a Lockina, ie Morsel or mouthful, brings out
and pushes him to the guest in the mouth.

Although I do not long Time needed to get used to this way of eating, because hunger overcomes
everything, so I had to learn to eat but a longer time necessary skill and decent, for it is
Ability to convey to the often semi-liquid morsel of elegance to your mouth, especially, if you
do not want to miss.

A drink of water, however, a repeated superficial Handabspülung and a never failing to take "Hamd
ul Lah "(Praise be to God) decides each meal.

* * * * *

9. Mikenes and home to Uesan.

* * * * *

Ben Thaleb had thought he could count on the gratitude of the Sultan of his accession to some extent
he was indebted to the contrary. Several times Ben Thaleb had to resign agreed, he now has
had working for more than 13 years, the richest city in the country. May be high in the fifties,
he hoped his last years quietly in his home, decide among his faithful to Berber Tribe. Since he died
a day, suddenly, without having been previously only seriously ill.

The
Sultan had the death of Baasha's be extremely desirable.

He had just now indemnity to pay. Spain asked for withdrawal of troops from Tetuan 23 million
Spanish Thaler. Where can you get the money?

       The great treasure that should be Mikenes wanted, or could he does
not crack.

How happy had to be the Sultan, at that moment that Ben Thaleb him
the favor that, to die, and he was thus become heir of his entire
specie assets.

       

As soon as the death of Ben's Thaleb became noised abroad, were his servants, slaves and Maghaseni
in front of my apartment under the threat of yelling, I poisoned the Basha, and one had kill me.
Fortunately for me was the eldest son of Baasha's there to protect me. On the evening before we
were with his father, the Baasha been together for tea, the same had recovered from a slight
indisposition, nor an ox in the evening, the victim and gifts Muley
Edris sent to the mosque, and that same evening, expressed in the
Baasha Presence of this son, that Mustafa (my adopted name) will always
be full of confidence have had, and I him by his little uncomfortable
always treated to the satisfaction have.

"And," he added, as if he had a premonition of his imminent death, "if my God should shorten life, so protect
Mustafa, who was my guest. "

Recalling the words of his father's operation, Si-Hammadi (the name of the son) explained his
people, and after two days he gave orders to travel with him to Mikenes,
the Sultan.

So I said for Fes farewell to never to enter again.

Si-Hammadi, surrounded by a brilliant suite, then my interpretation Si Mustafa and I with our entourage,
and finally a series of at least 200, with heavy boxes packed mules and perhaps also loaded 100 camels,
escorted by Maghaseni, that was our caravan. I did not know what to make of this similar-packed
course, had his baggage animals Si-Hammadi also be before I learned that this is the property
of Baasha left behind Baar was about two million Spanish and French Thaler.


If she realized their stupefaction at the unexpected materialization in their midst of the
mysterious and much heralded Miss Murdaugh she gave no sign, but played conservatively, her
eyes always upon the slim, agile fingers of her vis-à-vis.

His deal came and passed without incident, but when the round of the table had been made once
more, and Vernon dealt, Cal Shirley again refused to open and dropped out.

Willa, with a pair of aces, did likewise, and watched him gather up her hand with his own and
the other discards.

Vernon crowed triumphantly as he raked in the pot, but Willa scarcely heard.  One hand had
flown to the violets at her belt, and she waited, tense and motionless, until Shirley had shuffled
and lifted the top card to deal.

Then there came a sinuous, silken rustle; fingers like steel wires tore the pack from his grasp
and he found himself looking into the mouth of a small but eminently practical revolver.

"Hands up, you yellow son of a Greaser!"  Willa's voice rang out above the amazed gasp which
ran around the table.  "I saw you running up the hands before when you cleaned Mr. Follinsbee
on four planted jacks. That's why I eased myself into the game."

Shirley obeyed, with a sickly smile.

"Really, this is most extraordinary!" he drawled.  "Is your charming cousin about to entertain
us with a bit of wild-West melodrama, Vernie?"

"No," Willa interposed.  "I'm going to show you what we do with a crook below the border.--Mr.
North, will you take this pack and deal face up for Mr. Shirley?  You'll find that somebody
will have a hand to go the limit on, but our friend over there will top him, pat."

Mechanically, Winnie North complied, and, in a silence broken only by the whispering fall of
the cards, he dropped before Willa herself a king full, and at the erstwhile dealer's place,
four damning eights.

"You infernal scoundrel!"  They were all on their feet, but it was Vernon's voice which rumbled
in unexpected strength.  "If my cousin weren't here, I'd thrash you within an inch of your life!"

"Don't mind me!"  The revolver wavered regretfully in Willa's fingers. "I'd have winged him
at the start, but I reckon shooting don't go in New York.  I'll take a chance, though, if he
don't loosen up with every peso he's stolen."

The threat was wholly unnecessary.  With shaking hands the cheat made restitution, his sallow
face gray-green and distorted with silent rage.

"Now, vamoose!" Willa commanded.  "If I don't hear the front door slam in just thirty seconds,
you'll be the deadest hombre this side of Kingdom Come!"

There were a few seconds to spare from her ultimatum when the scurry of feet ceased in a thud
which echoed through the silent house.

Willa slipped the revolver back under her belt and turned with a little rueful smile to her cousin.

"I--I suppose it wasn't just what a lady ought to have done----" she began, apologetically.

"It was wonderful!" Winthrop North's eyes shone.  "You saw him stack up the cards on Pete Follinsbee,
and then dug up that revolver and came in here to expose him!  It's the gamest thing I ever
heard of a girl doing!  Congratulations, Miss Murdaugh!"

Vernon pulled himself together, and held out his hand.  "I'm proud of my cousin!  Only--what
in thunder will the mater say if this gets out?"

"I know what Dad would have said."  Willa flushed.  "But I suppose I've made a regular hash
of--of my début!"

CHAPTER IX

BIRDS OF A FEATHER

"What in the world are you doing, Vernie?"  Angie paused in the library door, stifling a yawn
daintily as she slipped her evening cloak from her shoulders.

Vernon looked up from his book with raised eyebrows.

"I should think that was self-evident," he observed.  "What brings you home so early?"

"The dance was insufferably stupid."  She dropped into a chair and began stripping off her
gloves.  "The music was awful and you know what the Erskine's ball-room floor is like; domestic
champagne, too, with frilly serviettes around the labels and half the boys drank quite too
much of it.  Ghastly bore, the whole affair."

"It seems to me everything is a bore nowadays, according to you." Vernon grinned.  "When is
Starr Wiley coming back?"

"I haven't the least idea."  Angie flushed.  "What has he to do with it?"

"A good bit, I imagine," responded her brother.  "You were playing him pretty strong before
he left."

"Heavens!  I wish you wouldn't use such horrid coarse expressions! That's Willa's influence,
but I knew just how it would be.  I warned mother it was a hopeless job to try to make anything
of her the very night she came, and I'm simply dreading next Tuesday!"

"I wouldn't worry on her account if I were you," Vernon returned.  "She may be a little green
yet, but she's learning fast, and I wouldn't be surprised if she were the hit of the season.
That black hair and dead-white skin and those deep blue eyes of hers are going to make a sensation
right off the bat.  You'd better look to your laurels, my dear sister."

"Tommyrot!" retorted Angie, inelegantly.  "She's as awkward as a calf, and hasn't a word to
say for herself, though if she'll only continue to keep still, I'm sure we shall all be thankful.
Mother is in despair over her studies; she simply refused to go on with the tutor, you know--said
she could read all the history and literature she wanted, and it was a waste of time to study
geography until the war was over and the map settled.  Moreover, she told Mr. Timmins to his
face that she knew more about practical mathematics and executive finance than he did, and
the dead languages could stay dead as far as she was concerned."

Vernon chortled.

"Bully for her!  I think she's a corker.  She dances like a dream already, and old Gaudet is
ready to weep with joy over her fencing."

Angie compressed her lips, in the fashion she had inherited from her mother.

"She ought to come naturally by the dancing, I'm sure," she sneered. "And she rides in rotten
form, like a Western cow-girl.  It was wise of mother to introduce her first at a small dinner
instead of giving her a formal coming-out party, where she would be the center of observation."

"Yes," Vernon teased.  "It is rather awkward to engineer a second début, while the first bud
is still lingering on the parent stem.  You want to look out or she'll leave you at the post."

"Thank you!"  Angie tossed her head.  "I'm only afraid she will be a laughing-stock and bring
down ridicule on all of us.  You and Father are perfectly idiotic about her.  You might be
expected to make a fool of yourself, but I am surprised at Father's interest in her."

"You wouldn't be if you'd heard them the other night, talking about the oil business; she was
actually advising him, and what's more, he took it thankfully.  I couldn't quite get the hang
of it myself, but you can bet I'm going to!"  He flourished the book.  "Little brother is going
into the oil game!"

"For about two days, I suppose, until something else comes along." Angie yawned openly.  "Thank
heaven, there won't be many people here Tuesday night."

"Who's coming, anyway?" Vernon demanded.  "If I have to take in any giggling idiot of a débutante,
you and mother can just count me out!"

"Tell her your troubles then," Angie suggested lazily.  "Mr. North and Winnie will be here,
of course; the Erskines, Harrington Chase, the Judsons, Mrs. Beekman----"

"Me for her!" interjected Vernon.  "She's the best all-round sport in the crowd, and the only
girl who can win cups at tennis and polo and yet manage to look pink-and-white in the evening.
I'll ask mother to let me take her in.  What's become of her brother, Kearn?"

"Mr. Thode?"  Angie shrugged.  "He's out West or down South, prospecting about, I imagine.
Awful bore, I thought him, and so silly to spend most of his time in the wilds when he could
stay in the New York office and live like a gentleman if he chose."

"A society hanger-on, grafting dinners and week-end parties because he's good-looking and there
with the family tree, but not rich enough to marry?  Thode's too much of a man for that, and
I fancy he prefers to lead a man's life.  I'm getting jolly sick of the whole thing myself,
and I'd like to cut it as he has!"

"By the way--"  Angie's negligible thoughts had flown off at a tangent--"isn't it funny about
Cal Shirley?"

"What?"  Vernon frowned.  "Haven't seen him for ages."

"Nor has anyone else.  He's simply dropped out of everything, and to-night I overheard his
mother tell Mrs. Erskine that he was going to winter at Coronado, for the polo.  It's odd,
when he was rushing Suzanne so violently.  Perhaps she turned him down."

"Lucky for her if she did," growled Vernon.  "He's a pretty-average cad, if you want to know;
I don't believe he'll show up again in a hurry."

"Why----!"  Angie's eyes gleamed.  "What has he done, Vernie?  Is there going to be a scandal?"

"Sorry to disappoint you, my dear girl."  He rose.  "The incident is closed, and there won't
be even a whisper to delight your ears. However, you can take it from me that Suzanne has seen
the last of one little playmate.  I'm going to bed; you have interrupted the flow of--of oily
meditation."

"Wait a minute, Vernie.  You and Father are so prejudiced that it's scarcely worth while trying
to talk to you, but mother has enough to worry about as it is, with Willa on her hands.  Besides,
I--I couldn't very well explain how I happened to see her, but I should like to know what Willa
was doing in a horrid little frame house out on the Parkway at five o'clock this afternoon."

Vernon stared.

"Don't believe it.  Someone's been stringing you.  She doesn't know a soul in town--er, that
is, no one but the few she has run into informally here."

"But I tell you I saw her myself!  She was just coming out as I motored past."

"I say, what were you doing out there yourself?  I thought you went to a matinée."

Angie grimaced.

"I went out to the Bumble Bee Inn for tea.  You needn't be a prig about it!  Lots of really
nice people go, and what's the harm?"  She picked up her gloves and trailed to the door.  "I
suppose you'll ask who I was with next, and I sha'n't tell you, my dear.  I'm bored to death
doing the same old proper thing all the time!  Sweet dreams!" It is easy to foresee how little grace they'll
find the venerable and part of our lucky readers, which is discuss (and probably have reason
to be) that in similar circumstances is quite different would have amounted to as Danae. Also,
we are far from this allzuzaertliche nymph excuse to do so seems always to cover up the love
of their sins white. However, we ask for permission but the vorbelobten Lukretien, this chapter
a little practical application to which they have taken it may not be close, to be allowed.
These ladies (with all respect we owe them, it was said) would to defraud a lot when they thought
that we have the weaknesses of so amiable Creature than the beautiful Danae had realized only reveal
this so that they would have an opportunity their self-love to tickle it. We are in fact not
so very new to the world that we should persuade us that each one, which is about the conduct of
our Danae is annoyed at her place would have been wiser. We know very well that do not everything
that leads the stamp of virtue, actuality and real virtue is fully sustainable, and that sixty
years, or a character that could disarm a satyr, no or very little right to give themselves
much to do on a virtue too well, what perhaps no one ever been tempted to put to the test.
We doubt very much with good reason, that those who judge by Danae on a ruthless, in their
place a much less dangerous tempter as Agathon was would scratch your eyes: And if they also
did, we would probably queue to attach their virtue, which very much both the mechanical Wuerkung
unreizbarer senses, and one would have unzaertlichen heart, have been able. Our attention
is only directed at you, you charming little creatures, where the nature of the most beautiful
gifts to please the gift given - you, which they has determined to make us happy, but that
one little indiscretion in can meet and share this beautiful destination as easily in danger,
the most valuable your properties that is what the schedule to every virtue, by the tenderness your
heart itself, to be unhappy: you alone we wish to persuade, how dangerous those fancy, which
is flattering to you, the consciousness of your innocence, that always stand in your power to
set the limits of love and its demands. Would like the immortal (if different, as we hope, the
innocence and goodness of heart heavenly protector has) you want to watch the yours! Would
like it to you at the right Time warn you not to trust a tenderness which, enchanted by the Magnanimous
Pleasure, the object of her love to make happy, so easy to forget oneself can! They would like
in those last moments when watching the delightful in the to put you are able to surprise
your wisdom, could you whisper in their ears: That even a Agathon, has neither merit nor love enough
to be worth the satisfaction his wishes would cost you the rest of your heart. After she had been
adopted, their Friend to make you happy, so she made it in a way that everything he previously Pleasure
and delight called, had turned to shadow and cloud images. We remember still believed to be
that kind of curiosity, or rather a capricious invasion, the power to try her irritation at our
heroes, at first the only driving force behind the attacks was what they had done to his heart.
A personal acquaintance of this busy Projects by the taste, they found him, and the daily use, the merits
Agathon, and, in most cases, the defeat of the female virtue which not only causes but very moved,
the contagious effect of the sympathetic love, enthusiasm, which ascribes the divine Plato
with the law wundertaetigsten forces, all this Taken together, these last taste turned into
love, but in the real affectionate and violent, which has ever been. Our heroes but the honor was
reserved (if It was a) its instill a kind of love, which she, notwithstanding all that we have
been discovered by her story before, nor so much a rookie was when there was a Vestal will
be in any kind of love. In short, he and he alone, was Darzu made the to overcome reluctance to her
common lover, the beautiful Hyacinthe, these trifling Dude, (to use us to their own expression)
to which lost half of their irritation went, all contributed to what the face of love, had begun
to inspire.

Most of that class of Naturkuendiger, before which keep with the Lord of Buffon, that physical
love is the best of them are, admit without hesitation that possession, or (to our expression
to further specify for ideas) the health of a such beautiful women as Danae was, in itself considered
the most perfect kind of pleasure to be concluded that our senses are capable of a truth, which,
notwithstanding a Kind of tacit agreement that they did not want to admit out loud, by all Peoples has
been recognized and at all times so general that Carneades, Sextus, Cornelius Agrippa, and Bayle himself
did not getrauet to hold them in doubt.

Whether we equal to not have courage enough evidence against so venerable as the unanimous feeling
of the whole human race gives to assert publicly that those pleasures the love which the soul
inherent in preference to those who have: Thus not a few but be with us unanimously that a lover,
who himself has a soul, in the possession of the most beautiful Statue of flesh and blood, which
can only ever be found, even those of the modern Epicuraeern learn as much vaunted pleasure
in only a very imperfect degree of dignity, and that this only on the sensation of the heart
get that wonderful charm, which continues for been held unspeakably is to Rousseau, the stoic, stooped,
they in the forty-five of the letters of the new Heloise, to describe in a perfection which
shows very clearly what an inspiring force for the mere half-extinguished memory to the experiences
of his happy youth exercised over the soul of the Helvetic Epictetus would have to have. No doubt there
are lovers of this kind, Saint Preux and Agathon, which zukoemmt it, to do about the issue touched
a decisive pronouncement; them what be by the subtlety and vividness of her feelings just made so
skilfully by the physical, than by the tenderness of her heart, or by their internal sense for the
moral Schoene, judging from the moral pleasures of love. And how true, as of course they will
not find that passage, which the admirers of the animal Love is not understandable as a Hetruscische
words the learned, - "Oh, cut me off always these heady delights, for which I would give a
thousand lives - just give me the everything back what they do not, but a thousand times sweeter
than them "the beautiful Danae was so ingenious, as inexhaustible in the art (if different from the
one you can call it what nature and love alone can give and not without the other) to reproduce their
favors, the internal value of the same to raise the amenities of the decoration, they always to
preserve the fresh blossom of novelty, and all monotonous, everything the enchantment would have
Disolve and open access to the weariness can to remove wisely, that it or any other of her are
like the Lord of Buffon even then, would have brought his Change to thoughts of love, which
might put together all of Paris Marquisinnen would not receive him. This blissful lovers needed
to their perception according to the gods to be the same joy, nothing but their love: They spurned
all now " these amusements, which they had previously met with such a taste, her love was all
their activities and all their pleasures from: They felt anything different, they thought of
nothing else, they talked with other things, nothing, and yet they seemed to always look for the first
time to embrace the first to tell each other the first time that they loved each other, and if
they had a morning to the other nothing else done but they complained about the harshness of
the time what a life it to Best of their immortal love would have wished, charge you moments
for days. "What a condition that if he could take "- called here the Greek author.

CHAPTER XI

A bemerkenswuerdige Wuerkung of love, or of the soul mix

An old writer, certainly no one will accuse that he love for metaphysical have treated, and we
need to call only to all suspicion of what material Souls declare Plato's grilling, remove
from him, in a word, Petronius, uses an expression somewhere, which is to recognize clearly that
he has a love mingling of souls not only possible, but for such a circumstance held, had the
habit of accompanying the secrets of Liebesgoettin naturally. Jam alligata mutuo ambitu animarum
corpora quoque mixturam fecerant, says this superintendent the pleasure of the Emperor Nero,
probably in order to precisely describe the same thing that he some other place unequal nice so
put it:

Et hinc transfudimus & hinc Labellisé Errantes animas-if he himself
the full strength of this Expression seen, or attributed to him have
as much importance as we do, is a question that us (according to the
custom of most boom) very little concerned.

Enough that we find this place a hypothesis related to the location, without which, according to
our opinion, various Phenomena love can not explain well, and in virtue of which we assume that
when true lovers in certain circumstances, not (as says one of our most virtuous poet), exchange,
but preceding a real mixture of souls. How this was possible to examine Let us leave the show
cheap and profound people who are, in proud and leisure blissful seclusion from the bustle of
this sublunary world, with the useful Speculation to concern, making the way identify as that
which actuality is, without detriment to their opinions and Lehrgebaeude be possible. For us
it is enough confirmed by innumerable examples that an experience is out of all doubt that those
kind of love that Shaftesbury with the best right to a kind of enthusiasm
does, and against which Lucretius for this very reason, explained
with as much zeal, such Wuerkungen bring forth, which portrayed no
better than those niches Petro expression can be.

Agathon and Danae, which we have given rise to this note, had barely a fortnight, which of course
were only fourteen moments after the calendar of love, blissful in this State in which we leave
in the previous chapter spent,: as that soul mix in such a degree voiced by them that they are only
of a single Community Soul invigorated and excited to be appeared. Actuality was the change
in sales and their present way of being, with their previous so great that neither his Alcibiades
Danae have the priestess at Delphi to the brittle or intangible Agathon recognized would. The
fact that the speculative from a Platonist become a practical Aristippus; that he has a philosophy
that the purest bliss in contemplation of invisible beauties set against a philosophy which she
in pleasant sensations, and the pleasant sensations investigated in their next source in nature,
in our thoughts and in our hearts, reversed; that he by the gods and Halbgoettern with whom
he had previously handled only the Graces Liebesgoetter and maintained, that this Agathon, the
Formerly of its minutes from its could give an account of moments of wisdom was now "ready (we
are ashamed of it ) Say wegzutaendeln whole hours, full days in a tender drunkenness - all
this, so much of the drop is even, but most seem to understand.

But that Danae, what the sweetest and noblest of Asia, which princes and satraps to their feet
had seen, which was used to shine in the brilliant assemblies at most, a yard of all that through the
privilege of birth, the spirit, the wealth and talent worthy, was applauded for her to strive to
get to see her: "now that these contemptible Danae Look in the big world threw back, and nothing was
more pleasant than the rural simplicity, nothing more beautiful than herumzuirren in groves,
to overcome their Blumenkraenze for Schaefer, in a murmuring spring in his arm fall asleep, to be
forgotten by the world, and to forget the world - that they, for which the love of feeling
otherwise an inexhaustible been the subject of humorous mockery was here, now by the affectionate
actions of the nightingale in quiet serene nights are moved to tears - or if her lover under a shady
arbor layers was asleep for hours, motionless, in a tender amazement and sunk in the enjoyment of their
feelings, could sit next to him, without thinking, it with a kiss to wake selfish - that this student
of Hippias, which had been accustomed to find anything more ridiculous than the hope of immortality,
and this sweet dream of better worlds, which are sensitive souls, so much to weigh maintain
- that they "now, the dawning light of the moon, at Agathon's page on flowers stretched out
to be already disembodied, to get lifted in the happy valleys of Elysium thought - in the middle
of the heady joys of love, to think of graves and urns lose, then her lover affectionate look
at her breast pushing the starry sky, and all hours of the joy of the immortals, of imperishable
beauty of heaven and Worlds could imagine, and, deceived by the wishes of her boundless love,
the hope of everlasting life "now found so little excessive that it no Idea seemed natural, no
certain hope, that were indeed marvels of Love, and wonders that only the love of Agathon, only those
mingling of souls, through which both their way of thinking, ideas, tastes and inclinations melted
into each other, access roads could bring.


"Go away, Liane.  I'm going to try to rest.  No, don't pull the curtains, I want the air. 
You may call me at six."

Willa waited half an hour, then, dressing quickly in plain, dark clothing, she slipped from
the house.

A taxi' stand was two blocks away on the Avenue, and as Willa stepped into the first cab, a
taller, portlier figure entered the second, and followed slowly but persistently through the
maze of traffic.  The girl glanced from the window at the back to make sure of her espionage,
then took up the speaking-tube.

"Never mind that address I gave you.  Drive into the Park, to where you can find a sharp turn
in the road; get around it as fast as the law will let you and then stop, but keep your engine
going.  There's a good tip in it for you if you obey instructions."

"Right, Miss."

The car swerved into the Park entrance, and Willa sat back with a peculiar light in her eyes.
When it stopped abruptly she sprang out, and, walking rapidly back to the turn in the driveway,
waited beside a screening clump of shrubbery.

In a moment the second taxi' hummed about the corner.  The girl stepped forward with her arm
thrown up and the chauffeur, bewildered, brought his car to a stop with a grinding jar of the
brakes.  In a moment Willa had the door open.

"Get out, Liane," she commanded briefly, and with one look at her blazing eyes the woman meekly
obeyed.  Willa turned to the chauffeur. "How much does your meter register?  Take it out of
this, keep the rest for yourself and go.  Your fare will not need you any longer."

The man hesitated, but his late passenger made no move, and the proffered banknote was a tempting
one.  He took it and went.

When the humming of his engine had died away Willa addressed herself to the cowering maid.

"You can walk back now, and tell your employer that you have failed. Tell her, too, that your
services are no longer required, and mind you stay only long enough to pack your things, for
if I find you there on my return, I'll show you what we do to spies where I come from!"

"But, Mademoiselle, I was obeying my instructions!"  The maid gesticulated vehemently.  "Madame
commanded that I follow and observe who is at the rendez-vous.  If Mademoiselle will be calm
and tranquil we may come to an understanding, is it not so?  I would prefer to be wholly in
the service of Mademoiselle, and we might together arrange a little story for Madame----"

"Sell her out, would you, you treacherous Jane!"  The old vernacular returned unbidden to Willa's
lips.  "You'd play both ways from the ace and take in the look-out?  If I had you down in Mexico
I'd shoot you full of holes!  You heard me!  If I find you at the house when I get back, look
out for your wretched skin!"

She sprang into her own taxi with a swift word to the chauffeur and bowled away, leaving her
erstwhile guard wringing her hands in the road.

At the gate of the neat little frame house far up on the Parkway, her driver hesitated.

"Excuse me, Miss, but it's only fair to tell you this car can be traced here from the stand.
I wouldn't double-cross you, but if the police get after me I'll have to come through."

Willa smiled and then her face grew thoughtful.

"This isn't a matter for the police.  You look like a white man. What's your job worth to you
a week?"

"Anywhere from fifty to seventy-five; depends on the fares I get," the chauffeur returned promptly.

"I think I can use you.  What is your name?"

"Daniel Morrissey, Miss."

"I'm Willa Murdaugh."  She gave no heed to the man's respectful stare. "I'll give you a hundred
a week flat.  You throw up your job, meet me to-morrow at the Circle at ten in the morning
and we'll go and buy a good car, light and strong and fast.  Can you drive a racer?"

"Anything on wheels but a locomotive!"

"All right.  I'll pay you for six months, whether I use you that long or not, and make you
a present of the car when I'm through with you. Is it a go, Dan?"

Then ensued the spectacle of Miss Willa Murdaugh, most important débutante of the season, and
Daniel Morrissey, chauffeur, binding the bargain with a solemn handshake.

While her new ally waited, she mounted the steps of the porch and rang the bell.  Hurried footsteps
thumped along the hall within, and a weazened, hunch backed lad smiled eagerly in the doorway.

"Greeting to thee, José."  Willa spoke in soft, liquid Spanish.  "I have come to tell thee
that we are safe here no longer.  We must seek another casa this very day."

Dinner-time came and passed, and the Halstead family sat in strained silence, their engagements
forgotten in the new anxiety which enshrouded them.  Mason North, hastily summoned to the conference,
paced the floor restlessly.

"It was a mistake, Irene!" he said at last.  "If you had told me I would never have sanctioned
it.  You can't treat a girl of Willa's type that way."

"But something had to be done!" Mrs. Halstead cried.  "You and Ripley were both powerless to
combat her, and we must know what scandal these mysterious errands of hers are likely to portend.
This is what comes of putting a beggar on horseback!"

"And there is nothing to prevent her riding straight back to Mexico, renouncing the inheritance
and daring us to go after her!" the lawyer retorted.  "Where would your share of your uncle's
estate go then, my dear Irene?  The girl's never been too keen on this proposition, anyhow,
as I've tried to make you realize; drive her too hard, and she'll throw the whole thing to
the four winds."

"I'll master her yet."  Mrs. Halstead spoke through set teeth.  "No insolent chit of a girl
can defy me!  The conditions of the will give me a certain amount of authority and I shall
exercise it to the limit. Willa must be controlled."

"Then play fair!"  A voice sounded from the doorway, and Willa herself looked in on them. 
"Don't set your servants to spy on me and try to interfere with affairs which are my concern
alone."

"My dear child!  What a frightful hour you have given us!"  Mason North wrung her hand in hearty
relief.  "Come in and sit down, and we will talk it all over.  We are willing to admit that
an injustice has been done you, but we must clear the air once and for all."

Willa complied.

"I think it is about time for an understanding," she said.  "I don't want any admissions or
recriminations, and I don't intend to submit to a lot of questions.  Let's get right down to
business.  Do you want to start?"

The lawyer hesitated, taken aback by her cool, matter-of-fact manner. It bore no trace of insolence,
yet conveyed a serene poise and grasp of the situation which was disconcerting.

"No, Willa."  It was Ripley Halstead who replied mildly.  The two younger Halsteads merely
stared.  "Tell us just what is on your mind. I want you to be happy here; that is the first
consideration."

"I'm not thinking about that just now."  Willa's calm, direct gaze moved from one to the other
of them.  "I'm going to speak plainly; it's the best thing for all of us.  This thing is a
business proposition, pure and simple.  If it were not for the terms of Grandfather Murdaugh's
will no one would ever have tried to find me; no one made the least attempt to help my father
and mother, on even see that they were given a fair chance to help themselves. The rent from such rooms Mosonat
varies from four to six or more per day. The coffee stands, which at the entrance or in the interior
of such Funduk are among the best.

Such inns as Leo describes her as kahuate of indecent host, known as el inhabited, where hanging
around too carelessly spend Weibspersonen is, there is now no longer in Fez, at the gates, however,
a quarter that is in bad repute in this respect; Prostitution itself
but can be found at all in Morocco only Mikenes.

By contrast there are numerous cafes where Kif, that the dried herb of Indian Hemp (Can. indica)
smoke and eat, and opium is eaten in this coffee houses; the custom of opium smoking is not
known in Rharb. The police or the government does to these harmful pleasures nothing, as well as
hashish and opium, together with tobacco, only sold by such businessmen in the city, which
is to a semblance of the government purchased.

There is so - for not only in Fez, this is the case, but in all Moroccan inland cities - for
the city a kind of tobacco, opium and hashish director.

Decent people beware, however, probably to go into those coffee houses, even though almost every
Fes in the pleasures of hashish indulged, but only in secret and in the interior of the home.
More clamp down on the sale of liquor and wine is prohibited, although
both in Fes for money and is to have good words, the former is distilled
from the Jews from the figs, raisins or Dates will also probably smuggled
from Gibraltar ago, the latter is the reading time of Jews, both as
prepared by Muslims.

It would take too long, we wanted all trades, industries, manufactures and trades itemize. It is sufficient
if we preferably call it here, so Fez excellirt today, and if we
point out that even today Fes still in first place among all the commercial
cities of the whole Rharb occupies.

To confirm the latter, I cite just that to me during my stay in Fes sometimes Facture were shown,
descended from French, English or Spanish story houses, who to 50,000 francs. stood. One can
therefore safely assert, in fact, that even Fes Wholesale trade has, as it really distinguished
merchants enough there gives that with Marseilles, Gibraltar, Cadiz
and Lisbon have conflicts, which the above-mentioned Sum annually,
nor exceed.  I never said anything of
the kind, and it isn't true, anyway!"

"What does it matter?" Willa asked wearily.  "I will not be shamed by being spied upon by servants.
Am I to be trusted on my word of honor that I am doing nothing wrong, or shall I go away?"

"Certainly not, my dear girl."  Ripley Halstead rose and held out his hand.  "I'll apologize,
if my wife does not, for the trick that was attempted to-day.  We will trust you absolutely,
but I should like to have your assurance that if you find yourself in any difficulty you will
come to either Mr. North or me."

"I'll gladly promise that."  Willa turned hesitatingly toward Mrs. Halstead.  "I am really
very sorry if I have been insolent, but Liane's behavior this afternoon aroused all my fighting
blood."

Mrs. Halstead kissed her coldly.

"I hope you realize that I thought I was doing only my duty.  There is one question I must
ask you, though, and since you refuse to discuss this with me privately you must take the consequences.
In justice to yourself I will say that I do not believe you capable of carrying on a vulgar
flirtation or intrigue, but remember we knew practically nothing of you when we took you into
our home.  If you are interested in anyone, if you are secretly engaged, you should tell us
and your fiancé must present himself here.  Willa, is there a man in the case?"

The girl smiled slowly and gazed off into space.  Watching her, Mason North drew a deep breath,
for into her changing expression there came a look of implacable, passionless vengeance which
made her for the moment the personification of Fate.

"Yes," she said at last.  "There is a man in the case, Cousin Irene, but not as you imagine.
I have not seen him since I left Mexico and personally he is nothing to me; in fact, I scarcely
know him, as you count knowing a person.  I have a little matter of business to settle with
him, that is all."

Mrs. Halstead sighed and turned to the door as the butler appeared.

"What is it, Welsh?"

"A gentleman, Madam."  He extended the salver.

Mrs. Halstead glanced at the card and then quickly toward her daughter, and her face broke
into an exultant smile.

"Of course, we are at home!"  Then, as Welsh withdrew.  "Fancy, we did not even know he had
returned!  It's Starr Wiley!"

CHAPTER XI

A CHANGE OF FRONT

The following morning, Willa and Dan Morrissey went motor shopping. Philip of Flanders and William of Jülich
penetrated through all the enemy troops passed to King Philip the Fair, the by floating in great
danger. His bodyguard was slain around him, and he would certainly be caught or killed, if
he was not his jacket and the would have taken other insignia of his dignity. Such has been
defaced, he escaped, he had only a slight wound by an iron arrow obtained. The French army was
completely in to flight, and the Vlaemen won a decisive victory.

Even the French Kronbanner (the Oriflamme) was torn to pieces, as the Chronicle of Flanders,
it reported.

In this battle, William of Julich lost their lives. The Vlaemen were until the evening so employed
to capture the king's tent, and all the other treasures. Then they returned after Peuvelberg back
in order to refresh something. However, since they found nothing, broke it according Rijssel.
The next day all returned to their homes.

This battle was 15 August 1304 delivered.

Fourteen days later, Philip the Fair with a new army to Flanders to Rijssel to besiege. The Flemish
citizens closed their shops and attacked with one accord to arms; Philip of Flanders, called together
all at Kortrijk and moved a few days later gene Rijssel, against
the French.

When Philip saw the huge amount of their beauty, he exclaimed in astonishment out: "It seems to me, Flanders
spews or raining warrior."

Since he dare not defeat longer allowed, he made a few small skirmishes peace proposals. That
is what led a ceasefire, and began the negotiations.

But it took a long time before the conditions are accepted by both sides.

Meanwhile, the old count died Gwijde to Compiègne in his prison, Joan of Navarre soon joined him
in death.

It was finally concluded between Philip of Flanders and Philip the Fair of the peace and signed.
Robrecht van Bethune and his brothers William and Gwijde and all the other captured knights
were released and were able to return to their country.

The people were with the Conditions of peace are not satisfied and
called it a covenant of injustice.

This Discontent but led to no further consequences.

When Mr. Robrecht van Bethune came to Flanders, he was an unusually splendid reception prepares
and worshiped as the Count. He lived for seventeen years, held the honor and glory Flanders upright
and fell asleep in the Lord on 18 September 1322nd

Afterword.

Belgian history is the history of bitter fighting against the Germanic Romance Penetrated, Roman domination.
Once it was the Romans who are the people of Flanders , Had to submit later the Italians, the
Romanized Franks, in their constant struggle extend power over the
land sought by Belgium and despite frequent heavy defeats scraps torn
to shreds itself.

Even in times when the noise of war seemed to rest, went the Struggle: it was language and culture,
which fought against each other and the bitter Struggle continued. In proportion as Belgium, when
German Vlaemen connection to the big brother Germanic tribe lost to the same extent it was the
French influence possible to gain ground. The recognition of this progress has led to the Flemish-threatening
Language movement, mainly in the second half of the last century,
more and more became important and sought to rouse the nationalist
conscience of the Belgians.

One of the most successful representatives
of this movement was Hendrik Conscience, who, on 3 December Born in
1812, after completing his military service decided in 1836 for the
Vlaementum Opinions. His very first novel, "In't wonderjaer 1566,"
which he, as the first of the new Flemish literary period in 1837,
wrote that caused a huge stir. He was followed in the next Year "as
the second of the" Lion of Flanders, who glorified the Golden Spurs.

"Yes," she assented quietly, and waited.

"Starr Wiley was disappointed last night at not seeing you," he pursued.  "I never knew you
had met him down there."

"You never asked."  Her tone was serenely noncommittal.

"He was telling us of some of the queer characters he has run across in that part of the country."
Vernon paused, and then plunged in desperately.  "He said you knew one old woman who was a
wonder; a half-caste hoodoo-worker who brewed magic potions in a big pot, and knew all the
legends of the countryside.  'Tia--' something, her name is.  Do you know what has become of her?"

He blurted the question point-blank, and Willa smiled in spite of herself.

"Tia Juana, you mean?  Did Mr. Wiley say she had left her home?  I never heard of her doing
that before," she remarked innocently enough.

"It seems she disappeared some time ago, and no one knows what happened to her.  She must have
been a queer old bird."

"Why are you so interested in her?"

He started, blinking at the swift directness of the question.

"Oh, I was thinking what a hit she'd make telling fortunes at some of the charity bazaars,
if she ever came up here.  People are always so nutty about anything new and a genuine witch
would be a sensation."

"Tia Juana is not a witch and she doesn't tell fortunes.  She is a little bit peculiar, perhaps,
like many other very old people, but that is all."  Willa laughed lightly.  "Mr. Wiley must
have been stringing you!  What else did he tell you about Mexico?"

But Vernon's mind was apparently hazy on the subject of his friend's further reminiscences,
and he left her at the door with ill-concealed alacrity.  She knew that the conversation had
not been uninspired, and his otherwise futile questions had served a useful purpose in forewarning
her.

"You will go to the opera with us to-night?"  It was more a query than a command which Mrs.
Halstead addressed to her.  "We are going on afterward to the Judsons', but we can drop you
at home if you don't care to accompany us."

"Thank you, no," Willa responded.  "If you don't mind I think I will stay quietly at home this
evening, but I'll try to keep my engagements in future.  I wish there were not quite so many
of them!"

"That can be arranged," Mrs. Halstead assured her stiffly.  "I wish to give you every opportunity
to meet all the eligible people in our circle and then you must select your own friends."

The truce between them was evidently to be an armed one, but it was a respite at least.  Willa
realized that her cousin would not soon forgive defeat at her hands, but her attitude was more
fortuitous than open war.

She had intended to write a long-delayed letter to Jim Baggott, but after the family departed
and she settled herself at her desk, the words would not frame themselves in her thoughts.
A spirit of unrest took possession of her, a sensation of suspense which did not lighten with
the dragging minutes, and in despair she flung down her pen and wandered into the music-room.

Piano lessons had appeared to Willa to be a sheer waste of time and patience in this era of
mechanism, and she had not responded with any degree of enthusiasm to Mrs. Halstead's suggestion
made shortly after her arrival, but now she touched the keys wistfully.  Oh, for one of Mestiza
Bill's tinkley old tunes on the piano in the Blue Chip!

She was turning blindly away, when the phonograph in the corner caught her eye and on an idle
impulse she started it.  By chance, the record left on the machine had been that of the latest
tango, and as she listened to the pulsing, languorous strains, Willa commenced half-unconsciously
to sway in rhythm with its lilting harmony.

The next minute she was dancing, but not in the dull, mincing fashion in which she had so recently
been coached.  The music caught at her homesick heart-strings, the old familiar scent of blossoming
gardenias was in her nostrils and she was out under a Mexican night.  Her pulses leaped to
the throbbing notes, and she flung herself sinuously into the measures of the tango, snapping
her fingers in lieu of castanets.

All thought of her present environment had slipped away from her, but she was recalled sharply
to herself when the music stopped and she halted, flushed and panting.

"Brava!" a cool, slightly mocking voice called from the doorway, and the soft pad of gloved
hands sounded upon her startled ears.  Whirling about, she found herself face to face with
Starr Wiley.

"Brava!" he repeated.  "Charming, Miss Murdaugh!  I would not have missed it for worlds!"

"How did you come here?" she stammered.

"By way of the front door, most conventionally, I assure you.  I heard the phonograph and told
Welsh not to announce me."  He shrugged, and drew off his glove.  "Aren't you going to greet
me, Miss Murdaugh?"

There was a covert sneer in the repetition of her name, and Willa made no advance.

"My cousin is not at home."

"I did not come to see your cousin.  I came to renew my acquaintance and make my peace with
you.  Are you going to punish me still for my temerity in Limasito?"

"No."  A little, quizzical smile hovered about her lips.  "I think you were quite sufficiently
punished for that."

Ignoring the dull red which swept up into his face, she led the way to the drawing-room and
dropped into a chair, motioning him to one on the opposite side of the glowing hearth.

"I thought you would be at the opera to-night; I looked for you there, but Mrs. Halstead said
you did not feel quite up to it, so I came on the chance that you would say 'How do you do?'
to me.  We have all missed you in Limasito."

"You have become quite a native, then?" She raised her eyebrows.  "You find the life there
more congenial, perhaps, than at first."

"Not since you left, my dear Billie.  Or is that name forbidden?"

"It is forgotten.  Only my friends may recall it, and you were never of their number, Mr. Wiley."

"I beg your pardon.  I, too, had forgotten for the moment that it must bring you tragic memories."
His voice was lowered to the tones of conventional condolence.  "Believe me, I would not have
grieved you, Miss Murdaugh.  I meant it for a jest, but it was lucklessly ill-timed."

"I would rather not speak of what is past, Mr. Wiley.  It is still too fresh in my memory."
Willa's eyes, fixed on the flames, were dry and very bright.

"But now that you are here, perhaps you will tell me something of my friends."

"Gladly, but there is little news," he responded hastily.  "I have been very busy and, as you
know, nothing interests me below the border now but my work.  Your friend, Jim Baggott, is
flourishing, the crowd that bought out the Blue Chip are bringing new life to Limasito--but
I have hurt you again.  I am sorry."

Willa had winced uncontrollably, but she recovered herself and smiled.

"And Mr. Thode?"  She voiced her query blandly, and Wiley flushed.

"I have seen nothing of him," he responded.  "To tell you the truth, I've forgotten the very
existence of the fellow.  He took care to keep out of my way after your departure until I myself
went West."

"You have not come, then, directly from Mexico?"

"No.  A little matter of business took me to Arizona.  I may tell you of it sometime, I am
sure it would be of peculiar interest to you."  He smiled, with an odd light in his eyes. 
"As for Kearn Thode, if you'll permit a little friendly advice, Miss Murdaugh, I wouldn't waste
any thoughts on him.  I don't believe in discussing a chap's affairs behind his back, but I
can assure you his own memory is very short."

"Still, I do not forget my friends, Mr. Wiley, nor my enemies."

"There is much else that I would like to ask you to forget," he said slowly.  "I was a cad,
I know, but I fancied that you were too broad and generous to hold the madness of a moment
against me.  I hoped you would be more kind to me when we met here in the environment in which
we both belong.  I even dreamed that we might be friends."

"Are we enemies, Mr. Wiley?"  She raised her eyes to his.  "I assure you I have not given that
little scene on the camino a second thought."

"Then shall we start all over?" he asked eagerly.  "Since you deny me a former one, won't you
let our friendship date from this hour?  I cannot tell you how delighted I was when I learned
that your relatives had found you and that you had taken your rightful place.  I knew from
the first that you were different to the rest; you were the only one I cared to know, and you
would not----"

"Play about with you?"  She smiled dryly.  "I don't think I have ever learned how to play,
and now I am more serious than ever.  There are responsibilities, I find, attached to my present
situation of which that other girl in Limasito never dreamed."

"Naturally," he conceded, adding quickly: "But you are fortunately not troubled with the details
of your estate, while you have two such efficient guardians as Mr. North and your cousin."

The rising inflection in his tone seemed to demand a reply, but Willa vouchsafed none and after
a moment he went on:

"You must find the social life very engrossing.  I know that I am always glad to get back to
civilization after a few months in the wilds.  I would have returned earlier in the season,
but my work was not completed."

"And is it now?" she asked with studied carelessness.

"Almost.  I came to consult my partner, Harrington Chase--I believe you know him, by the way."

"He dined here, but he said nothing about your return.  My cousin was quite agreeably surprised.
She is going on to the Judsons' after the opera, did she tell you?"

The hint was unmistakable, but he shook his head, smilingly. On the beach undergo However,
at right angles into the sea rocks, but believed they had a former Port formed, it would hardly
have been large enough pool Fischerböte 12-16 record. Moreover, the blocks are so small that they
are covered at half tide right from the water. The mouth of the Oued-Aiascha where you have
also noticed remains of the walls, must be earlier time have been a good port. Pliny also
says: "Zilis juxta flumen Zilia" which Flow may well be none other than the above-mentioned Aiascha.

Arseila,
located in the area of ​​Hasbat lies directly on the sea.

A rectangular oblong, of half-ruined walls and towers, surrounded by two gates, one of which is to
the north, the other looks to the east, has Arseila c. 500 inhabitants Moslem and Jewish Confession.
One finds in Arseila as in all port cities of Morocco's many traces of Christian Domination of
the old buildings. Some lying on the ground pillars as columns, which now inside the Djemma are likely
to perhaps be of Roman origin. A Djemma, a miserable Funduk, public buildings, a Moroccan Jew
provides the British consulate. Arseila Fischer Achen has not even let larger ships. Despite the
next sand in the air, the residents knew how to create reasonably good gardens and figs, Melons,
and the vines flourish Pastek excellent. But no place is so dear, what foods , As far as Arseila,
and even fruit, in other parts of Morocco for almost nothing have, here are comparatively cost
much money.

The entire city population, we were in tents on a green lawn mounted
close to the sea, since the Sultan had ordered for his kingdom a three-day
celebration of joy the happy mastered uprising Djellul Sidi's. As
the Jewish Feast of Tabernacles will be all such celebrations of the
Moroccans held outdoors, just as in the large religious festivals,
Aid el Kebir, aid sserir Molud the worship ceremony and do not celebrirt
is in the mosque, but out in the open field.

Between Tangier and L'Araisch can also Christians in Christian garb travel along the sea, without
fear to be harassed. Even so happened that evening, where we were in Arseila, a Spanish (Gives
it no other Christians in the town) a merchant, who at the very Funduk the night spent, which
accommodated us.

From Arseila, we left the next morning, to L'Araisch you have along the sea, the bank always retains
the same character, only half a day's march, and it must be to go into town to translate the mouth
of the Oued-Kus. Without stopping, reached We are traveling through a beautiful cork oak forest,
on the same day L'xor. And here was no stay for us, because we the customer was Sidi el Hadj
Abd-es-Ssalam intended to take a Trip to Morocco.

Two days later we were safely in Uesan after an absence three weeks.

The Grossscherif, who received me as usual, very friendly, told me that although he had an invitation
from the Sultan received, to accompany him to Maraksch, but later had the Sultan in another letter
expressed the wish not to come because his presence in the Near Rharb, whose population had
only just gone through a revolution, necessary was, as in Maraksch.

So I thought, too, that the time had come to my fate from that of the Grossscherifs to separate
its kind and unselfish hospitality since I now one years enjoyed, I also felt I was mighty in the
Arab language daily, as has one is overcome the initial difficulties, this language as a spoken
language is not difficult. And if it has been calculated that a European country man, an English
farmer, for example in his normal living conditions only about 400
words, needs their help with it all can communicate his ideas his
fellow man, then you are in Morocco no longer necessary.

The whole lifestyle is so simple, the objects which the person has there are necessary, so few,
the conversation is so stereotypical and almost always revolves around the same objects, that if
one only once with the construction of the Moroccan way of speaking is familiar, and has accumulated
the requisite Wörtervorrath in memory, the talk is all by itself. The main thing is to always
have God and a prophet in his mouth, of paradise and hell to speak, the devil to forget, and
it reverently with their lips murmuring the rosary by to slide the
finger.

If one then also not just a phrase, has you suddenly remember a word, and says instead, "God
is greatest", or "Mohammed is the darling of God, "or" God curse the Christians, "we find not a Moroccan,
even if these concepts do not fit then, remarkably, and he is even the set , Supplement, or
find the word you.

Before I left, however Uesan, was offered to me is an opportunity with a "Emkadem", Director, to
travel between the Grossscherifs after the small city of Fes and Udjda Tesa, the same had
been sent, einzukassiren lagging funds for the Sauya Uesan. The first day we traced the path leading
from Uesan Fes and camped at Oued-Ssebu in a locality, Manssuria called, which consisted of
several huts and a Duar, both property of the Grossscherifs. Strangely, this area is the fact
that in the near Manssuria a stony field, from the sulfur vapors
and resistant to the statements of the natives sometimes small Flames
rise [124].

This is the only known me in Morocco locality where volcanic phenomena are still in action.
On the second day in the valley of Ssebu going up, which comes to settle the numerous bends of the
East, we were another night in a Tschars (mountain village) and reached the third day at the
picturesque Mountains, the town of Scotch.

[Footnote 124: Perhaps the Pyrron Pedion whose Ptolemy in Mauritania Tingitana mentioned.]

After Ali Bey Tesa is on the 34 ° 9 '32 "NB and 6 ° 15' WL v. P. On the banks of toads of the
Oued-Asfor (yellow river, as in this case means the Ssebu), but almost half an hour from him
away. Also flows through the city from small-Oued Tesa, who comes from the south. Able, ie,
located on the slope of a mountain, Tesa has an extraordinary resemblance with Uesan. Leo
gives the city 5000 fire authorities, which in any case is much too
high because it is unlikely to have more than 5000 inhabitants, of
which about 800 Jewish souls Confession are.

      Hemsö ventures the conjecture that Scotch is the Babba of the ancients.

The
       city, surrounded by a simple wall and a Kasbah, has a stable garrison
500 Maghaseni, a distinction that it still communicates only with
Udjda, which is just as has a great crew, while in all other cities
of the kingdom only about 20 soldiers to the Governor are available.

The location of the city, near the troubled Hiaina, and the other completely independent hill
tribes in the east and south of the city make such a strong Very necessary occupation. Scotch
is the main center of trade between Algeria, respectively. Tlemcen and Fez. But east of the adhesive
area is so insecure that every caravan by a party Maghaseni must be accompanied. Stark visited
Karavanenwege result also of Scotch after and the Figig Tafilet. The houses inside the city express
wealth of the inhabitants, the great mosque, with ancient monolithic columns in the interior,
suggesting that once The city has been more important than now, and
what the health of the air, the abundance the fruit trees and the
wonderfully beautiful area is concerned, one can only agree with Leo,
who says, "this book should place because of the healthy air in the
winter as well as summer takes place here, be the royal residence.

"

We were staying in the Scotch in the Sauya tkrA Mulei Thaib, and were of course well entertained.
After two days stay, as the Emkadem einkassirt had his funds went we are after the same way
Uesan back, because the more direct but by the way leading Hiaina not offered enough security
for even the Emkadem of Grossscherifs.

In Uesan again arrived, my days were numbered in that it was just about the permission To get
to leave. I could not remember to tell the Grossscherif that I wanted to leave him forever,
because he once made perfect to the idea had, I would always stay with him. So I finally got permission
for a small make travel to be allowed, and said the city Uesan forever (as I believed then, later I came
back but still Uesan) farewell.

* * * * *

13. Travel along the Atlantic

* * * * *

leave for Tangier, I, deposited a box containing the papers of Sir Drummond and moved along
the coast, the same way to L'Araisch further. As the equipment I had nothing more than a Donkey
with two Schuari (side chairs), which contained several stores, a Spanish renegade a sense of
my companion, servant, donkeys and warder Doctorgehülfe was, had joined. Before we moved, we
stayed for some time in the city.

       

L'Araisch is on the far side of the left bank of the Oued-Kus so that
one side to the river, the other makes for the ocean front.

       About 4 K.-M. upstream of the Oued-Kus on the right bank was the
old Lya of the Punic or as it later by the Greeks and Romans called
Lina, formerly the largest settlement on the Atlantic Ocean.

A little further upstream where the Oued-Maghasen falls in Kus.

The ruins by Sir Drummond Hay and Barth been visited, without, however, both special discoveries
were made also unlikely without cleaning the soil and excavations must be included. Drummond Hay, the
ruins are called Schemmies.

Barth wants from the foundation walls recognized at the Casbah that even in today's base of an
old town of L'Araisch Libyan city was located, which would confirm Scylax's statement.

Of which is from the Old and in the mouth of the Hesperides-mentioned Lixos lying island today
no trace.

However, appears at low tide goes out about 1 K.-M. holding sandbank in the bag-like estuary
of the river to, and may just need a general to accept lower Atlantic coast, this was the once fertile
Hesperides Island. This protected estuary on the north by high mountains of sand, could, would you take
the trouble the cash wegzubaggern be furnished to a excellent harbor. Now, with flood maximum
of vessels of 150 tons of content arriving, and when we were in L'Araisch,
were six European ships in the harbor, also rotted on the beach the
last two warships the Moroccans, two wretched brigantine.

And yet Morocco had not yet one hundred years the audacity to challenge his wretched sea power the world.

The
name L'Araisch arose after Hemsö from the Word araisch-ben-el-Aras, ie, the trellis the Beni
Aros. After the city alternately in the possession of the Moroccan and Portuguese have been was seized
in 1689 after a five-month siege Mulei Ismaïl same. Since the time has been attacked by L'Araisch
Europeans have often, as in 1785 by the French in 1829 by the Austrians, while the Moroccan fleet,
the coup de grace offset.

We notice in L'Araisch on the buildings of the city still clearly the Christian influence. So the pretty
market square is a regular rectangle is provided with arched arcades, the Columns are monoliths
of sandstone.

The main mosque, which also follow the market-place Front to power, must have been a Christian church,
the facade is in the so-called Jesuitenstyl held. Moreover, there is yet another handsome and multi-storey
Building, with beautiful high windows; the market place. Maybe it was the former Government House,
perhaps a monastery, because only in 1822 had to this existing Spanish Mission be abandoned.
Today the house stands empty and unused, and is to be deleted by the window Wind, and the eating
atmosphere will soon do their part to the building in ruins to make.

Except very well received but unresisting walls is the city by a four bastions provided further,
Christian and plant originally built with good material only. This fort is located on the westernmost
tip of the city to the sea. Inside this Fort is a castle, whose round cupolas can already see
from afar. The castle is be built by the Sultan Muley Yasid. Below the fort to the port to two brick Beach batteries.
After S.-O. dominant in the city, is the Kasbah, a fortress of rectangular shape, provided at
the four corners with a very sharp angle bastions. The walls the Casbah, which is also probably a Baute
of the Portuguese and Spaniards are well preserved, But despite all Vertheidigungsanstalten
L'is an attack of Europeans not long Araisch oppose resistance can,
no matter whether he made from the ocean, or from the land is.

Otherwise, L'Araisch no remarkable buildings, if not a small tomb in the gardens dedicated to the south
of the city, the Lella-Miñana, a Sherifa, the buried content. In his lifetime, they should
have done wonders, and even now are to the grave in the chapel Lella-Miñana the women praying
to be healed of infertility: two pious close resident hermit open to women for a small gift of
the door of the tomb and support them in prayer.

The city has about 5000 inhabitants, of whom may well be 1,200 Jews, the latter as all Jews
in the port cities of Morocco's use, the Spanish language. The few Europeans, perhaps 30 or
40 individuals are under the protection of their consuls, of which there here, with the exception
of a German gives all nations.

The trade of the city is not insignificant, and includes the same items in the Tangier Export
and import will be executed that is, especially wool, animal skins, wax, oil, butter, Fruit as almonds,
oranges, lemons and figs, dried olives, eggs, poultry (other Livestock export is prohibited),
cereals and pulses. In L'Araisch just adds the Bark of the cork oak, which is processed in Europe.
Rubber and copper from Morocco to Europe no longer carried out, as
copper in Europe and rubber from Senegal belong cheaper can.

Leeches are also executed by L'Araisch, but more so of Tangier and Mogador. Import items are:
cotton fabrics, cloth, raw and manufactured silk, paper, weapons, metals, such as iron, lead,
mercury, sulfur, alum, saltpetre, colonial produce, including particularly Tea and sugar, and
various objects, bad jewelry, porcelain and glass-ware, Mirrors and
the like m. The above-mentioned objects are pretty much in all ports
of the country in the same trade.

The road between L'Araisch and Media will be uninterrupted or Mehdia out on a spit of sand, between
the sea on the one hand, swamps and lakes located on the other. On the excellent Map by A. Petermann,
Mittheilungen born 1865, Plate 4, then on the map of Renou This is quite clearly brought to
view. Spits and lagoons, only to flat sandy coasts arise, and so it is natural that where the
other conditions for Haff and Nehrungbildung are present, they arise. As the sand is a product of
the sea; then the spits, composed of sand, only to shallow coasts with much sand observed. There
are now spits relating to both sides even with the mainland, or those who have broken through
the sea. The former can arise from the fact that high dunes can not be broken under extreme tides,
Ocean water but let through which water from behind the dunes running parallel with the sea is a
lake, or collects it landward of the dunes, the water of small rivers,
forming a lake, the Water, but is not strong enough to break through
the spit, or even the water from the Landsee pours on the Spit in
the Ocean.

Spits are breached by that pave the rivers an output, or by the ocean itself, in both cases Made
lagoons.

At various points of Africa has one spits and lagoons, in so before the delta of the Nile Egypt,
which are more important than our German in the Baltic, or on the coast of Guinea; the spit on
the coast of Morocco runs from L'Araisch out to Rbat, thus has a length of nearly 17 German miles.

Inland
from the Spit in winter is a 2-3 mile wide lake in the summer to swamp is therefore in the
north near Muley Bu Slemmer's name Mordja [125] Ras el Daura, and south of Mehdia, Mordja el Mehdia.
Same immediately to the east of the lake or marsh that extended encounters Cork oak forest, the
northern end of L'Araisch beginning from the south at Rbat.

[Footnote 125: Mordja called swamp]

Countless water birds, ducks, pelicans, ibises and other hang around here, and in summer are
hyenas, jackals and wild boar from the cork oak forest to hunt in the wet marsh. All the Spit
itself is inhabited by Arabs.

They usually have their tents on the land side and although never a circle, but as if it were
the long form of the spit is wanted to adapt, always pitched in a long line. The dunes are partly
covered well, usually with Lentisken, grass feed for beef and sheep is abundant.

Usually one sets the path to Mehdia along the water back in two days' march, the large Because
of heat, and because we were staying so often to bathe in the ocean, we took four Days. Everywhere
we found the way, excellent hospitality and the wonderful watermelons which produces the spit have
I never tasted better than here.

      Two pretty Tombs are built right on the seashore: Mulei Bu Slemmer
[126], a day trip south consisting of L'Araisch, several cathedrals,
then Mulei Hammed bel Cheir, vis-à-vis of Mehdia on a small hill.

At about 3 clock afternoon on the fourth day we reached Mehdia, located on the left bank of
the Sebu.

[Footnote 126: The Most geographers hold Mulei Bu Slemmer for old Mamora, Mamora antica, and yet
I do not think ever stood at Bu Slemmer this place has.]

To travel but first we had a pretty long way around one K.-M. upstream go where there was the ferry,
then we went back to the left bank and climb the path that leads up the steep 417 foot (after
Barth) high rocky hill on which Mehdia content. In a very bad Funduk we found shelter. Mehdia is a little
miserable Village, of perhaps two hundred inhabitants, because of its dominant position it
once was important and could be on navigable Sebu, the river, at the Fez, is easily to a flourishing
city are made. The mouth of the Sebu is not wider than perhaps 1000 steps, but very deep just
below the city. The Sebu pours but not in a straight line into the ocean, but is inclined obliquely
to the north. A strong bar locks the river from.

      
       
       When I visited the place from the outside, I found below it a labyrinth
of walls, 4 feet thick and appear 20 feet tall made of solid stone,
a network of square brick Areas representing.

The people interviewed knew about it not providing the information, but in Leo, we find complete
information about:

Jacob El Mansor, who reigned from 1184 to 1199, built as the entrance Vertheidigungsfeste of Cebu,
was later destroyed Mehdia and in 1515 sent Don Manuel of Portugal, a Fleet from there in
order to create a fortress. Hardly realized under construction, but came to the Time in Fes
reigning Sultan Mohammed ben Oatas with an army and attacked soldiers and Workers. Leo, who
was present as an eyewitness to this attack, gives them a poignant Description. The Portuguese
were all killed, burned the ship. From 6000-7000 men crew, induced by treachery stretching of
arms, most people were massacred.

From the mouth of Sebu is said to have fished out the King of Fez afterwards 400 guns.

Later, on 6 August 1614, took the Spaniard again Mamora (as the Europeans and Mehdia called
Leo), built a fort, but which at the 2?.

April 1681 [? unreadable in the was printed version] of Muley Ismail attacked and destroyed. Since
the time is Mehdia, what it is now a miserable village.

What now regards the above-mentioned constructions, says Leo thereof [127]: "The Portuguese
began immediately after their arrival the building, all foundations have been laid, the walls
and bastions was a start made, etc. "Such a work in progress, but not destroyed Impression because the
buildings at Mehdia. What Mamora antica concerned, probably the same to be looking at the other bank
of the Sebu, or perhaps the hills of the city, which also was fixed,
"Alt-Mamora," the most beautiful beaches of the Portuguese construction
undertaken on the other hand "New Marmora" have been.

But to want to search the remote Mulei Bu Slemmer Alt-Mamora is totally inadmissible, because
"Mamora" always a rocky hill means Tamasirht language, but in such a Bu Slemmer not present.

[Footnote
127: Translation of Lorsbach, p. 185th]

Barth adds, that by no means how to take the most geographers are inclined to Banasa have been
here (Hemsö says Banasa have located where now is Mulei Bu Slemmer, a locality that has nothing
welcoming establishing a city) which has an inland city on the upper course of the Sebu been,
but that in Mamora by Ptolemy mentioned the city Subur was seen. I should add that in the country
among the natives of the Mamora Name completely unknown.

We stayed in Mehdia only at night, leave early the next morning, we had lunch in Sla translated,
and remained the same in Rbat in a Funduk. The path offered nothing new, Nehrungformation was here
only to the local dunes are older because they were on the land side
dense with oak trees, which bear an extraordinarily delicate and sweet-tasting
fruit, passed also cork oak, and wild olive Lentisken were visible.

        She smiled at the other's bewilderment.  "It's funny how everything
reduces to poker terms, isn't it?  I'll send Vernon in."

"Wait!  Let me understand this."  North put out a detaining hand.  "If you're not doing this
for that young scapegrace in there I'd like to know in whose interest it is.  Is there something
else back of it?"

"If I tried to explain, Mr. North, you'd be in a worse muddle than ever," Willa told him candidly.
"Dad always said you could take care of the pat hands against you if you froze out the four-flushers.--Don't
scold Vernon, please.  Remember, he's just balancing; a push either way will determine his
course for the future.  I'll wait for him."

A long half-hour passed, but when she heard her name called in the attorney's strangely subdued
tones, Willa reëntered the library to find the two standing with clasped hands.  Both were
flushed and seemed to find difficulty in speech, but at length Vernon burst out:

"Willa, he's a trump!  I never realized what an utter beast I was until now and it's just because
he hasn't said anything that he might well have!  It isn't only the money, though I'll work
like a dog to pay that back----"

"I know you will, my boy!"  North found his voice, although it was suspiciously husky.  "Willa's
sure of you, too."

"That's it, that's what counts!  A fellow couldn't help but be straight with two such friends
believing in him!"  Vernon choked, but he squared his shoulders.  "Will you shake hands with
me, too, Willa?  I'm not going to talk, I'm not going to try to thank you, but I'm going to
show you!  I know what friendship means now, and I mean to be worthy of it!"

Their hands clasped, and, looking into his eyes, Willa said with conviction:

"I'll bank on you, Vernon.  Go in and win.  It'll be a stiff game, but you can't lose for you're
on the square now."

CHAPTER XIII

THE CHALLENGE

"What do you think about this?" Harrington Chase growled as his partner entered the private
office the next morning.  "Somebody's getting after us good and plenty!"

"Let them come!" Starr Wiley shrugged.  "We're on the right side of the fence now, nobody can
touch us.  Anything from Cranmore?"

"Yes.  Whoever it is that is trying to get a line on us isn't overlooking any bets.  Our men
have been keeping me posted on the inquiries up here, and they've got the dope so straight
that it's my opinion they have reached one of the inside staff."  His tones lowered and he
glanced significantly toward the ground-glass partition which separated them from the small
army of clerks in the outer office.  "It doesn't matter, of course, but it would be just as
well for the future to know if we have an enemy in camp.--Now, Cranmore wires me in code from
Limasito that someone down there is mightily interested in our titles and leases and particularly
in what new fields we're opening up. I tell you, if you don't get in touch with that old woman
soon, somebody will beat us to it as sure as you're alive."

"I have got a line on her."  Wiley paused to light a cigar.  "I told you I suspected she'd
been brought up here, and I've verified it.  I know where she and that hunchbacked kid were
living two days ago. They've cleared out, but I've put a couple of men on the party that will
lead us straight to her.  I'd like to know, though, who is so devilishly interested in our
affairs."

"It is Larkin's outfit, of course.  That young engineer they've got down there has spudded
in the Consuegra, that you passed up, and it's producing seven hundred and fifty barrels a
day as a starter."

Wiley thrust out his jaw.

"That's all right.  I know Larkin's man; Kearn Thode, his name is.  I met him before out in
Oklahoma, and I've no use for him.  He's had little use for me, either, and between you and
me, he's got less now than ever before, only he doesn't know it!"  He laughed shortly.  "You
might be surprised to know that Larkin himself was after the Lost Souls."

"What?"  Chase swirled about in his chair to face his partner.

"Fact.  I don't know how he got wind of it, but as soon as Thode showed up and began nosing
about I knew what his game was."

"No wonder they're butting in on our affairs!  We'll have to do some quick work----"

Wiley laughed again.

"No fear of trouble from Thode.  I beat him to it and spiked his guns at the same time.  He's
given it up as a bad job; that's why he tackled the Consuegra.  Wait till we pull off the big
noise and he'll be welcome to all the jitney gushers below the border."

"When we do," Harrington Chase observed with emphasis.  "We'll have to get hold of the old
dame first."

"We'll land her."  Wiley smote his desk.  "There isn't a woman living, young or old, who can
cut the ground out from under my feet!"

But a distinct shock awaited him when he entered the club that evening, in the attitude of
his erstwhile ally, Vernon Halstead.  He had difficulty in locating the young man at first;
a survey of his usual haunts, the bar and card-rooms, failed to disclose him, but Wiley ran
him to earth finally in the library, deep in a bulky and serious-looking volume.

"Improving your mind?" he sneered.

Vernon raised his eyes serenely.

"Never too late to learn, is it?" he observed.  "I've found out a lot in the last day or two."

"You mean--?"  Wiley dropped into a chair beside him.  "Any new developments?  Did she go out
alone to-day?"

"My cousin?"  Vernon closed his book, and rose.  "I haven't the least idea, I assure you. 
I ran out to Mineola myself, with an aviator chap I know."

He had paused, looking down at his interrogator, and at the expression in his eyes the latter
half rose also, then sank back.

"And just what am I to infer?"  Wiley spoke through set teeth.

"Anything you like, my dear fellow.  Help yourself."

"Ah!  You're going to renege, are you?  You're prepared to take the consequences?"

"You've guessed it."  Vernon nodded.  "I'm off the dirty work, Starr. You'll have to do your
own sleuthing in future."

"You realize what it means?  I've never bluffed in my life, Vernon, and I'll push this thing
to the limit!"

"Go as far as you like."  Vernon waved his hand airily.  Then his expression hardened.  "But
whatever happens, leave my cousin out of your future plans. All her relatives and her friend Adolf was in battle. From this Battle,
who dared to Vlaemen against such a superior force, hung the freedom of their From father,
which had to battle to restore the throne of Flanders or to destroy forever. If the French won the
victory, they had the death of all those who you were expensive, be prepared for themselves in the
most terrible fate.

As soon as the war trumpet sent its sound over the battlefield, the two women shook and turned
pale as if she had taken a mortal blow at the same time. In this anxious moment they could not express
the feelings of their souls, they were also sunk down on a pew, his head had supported it, and
still tears were shed down her cheeks. So she knelt there now in fiery prayer, without stirring,
as if they have been sunk in deep sleep, from time to time we heard a faint sigh, and when
the roar of the battle swelled louder, then sobbed Maria:

"O Almighty God, Lord of Hosts, have mercy on us!

Standing with us in times of need, O Lord! "

Machteld and gentle voice replied:

"Oh, sweet Jesus, Savior, protect him! And call him not unto thee, O merciful God! "

"Holy Mother of God, pray for us!"

"O Mother of Christ, consoler of the afflicted, to ask him!"

Then drowned out the thundering roar more terrible war over to them and shook their hands fear
like a leaf, their heads bent low, her tears flowed abundantly, and
her prayer was again not understandable, for the oppression they robbed
the language.

The fight lasted a long time, the terrible cry of one against another
attacking troops hovered constantly on the Abbey of Groeningen, but
the longer the silent prayer of women; for when the Golden Knights
knocked at the door of the monastery, they were not from the pew stood
up.

Suddenly they heard booming men steps in the passage of the cell led. They turned their heads,
and as she gazed fixedly at the door shook, both in a sweet foretaste of consolation.

"Adolf is coming back," sobbed Maria. "Oh, our prayers have been answered."

Machteld solicitous toward listened and responded down:

"No, no, he is not, his step is not that hard. O Mary, perhaps a harbinger
of death!

"

At that moment they heard the door of the cell creak on its hinges, a nun opened left them
and into the golden knight. The tender form Machteld froze, her eyes were fixed in doubt to the
warrior who stood before her with open arms to receive them. At first it seemed to her as if
she fooled a false dream, but this feeling was fleeting because the fire, and impetuous, she
threw herself shouting at the chest of the golden knight.

"My father," she cried, "O my dear father! I see you again, free, no strings! Let I include you
in my arms! O God, how kind you are! Escapes me your cheek, dear father, let me the joy I feel
to express. "

Robrecht van Bethune embraced his loving daughter full of delight, and he held it to his Chest
pressed to her excitement a bit was consistent, and then put the helmet and his iron gloves
on the pew. exhausted by the effort of the day, he moved bring a
chair and sat down in it.

Machteld arms around his neck with both arms; then looked at her with admiration and respect
the man, whose features it with so much Happiness is in, and she so tenderly, so dearly loved.
She listened with a beating heart the sweet words, whispered to his beloved voice of her.

"Machteld," he said, "my precious child, the Lord has long examined,
but now all our Suffering to an end.

Flanders is free, the country is revenge, the Black Lion has all the lilies torn, and all foreigners
are killed. Fear nothing now, the evil mercenaries Joan of Navarre has been sent are dead "

Machteld
listened with anxious desire, in the words of her father, she looked
dreamily in his eyes and smiled at all strange expression.

She was so full of joy that she sat there as if they would be deprived
of any sense.

After a few moments, she realized that her father did not speak,
and cried:

"O Lord, our country is free!

The French are defeated! And you, my father, you I'm back! Then we want to return to our beautiful
Wijnendaal, no sorrow will Your old days more bitter, and I am glad and happy in my life Euern
poor ! Spend Such was lucky I did not expect as much as I dared not of God in my to request
prayers! "

"Listen, my child, and is not depressed, I ask you: I still need you leave again. The noble warrior
who gave me free time even from my bonds, received my word of honor
that I would return as soon as the battle would be delivered.

"

Tieftrauernd had the Virgin in these words her head fell on his chest
and sobbed.

"They will kill you, unhappy father!"

"Added Do not be so timid, Machteld," said Robrecht, "my brother Gwijde sixty French Knight
of precious blood of captured, we will tell Philip the Fair, that her life as a pledge for my serves,
and may the surviving heroes of his Vindictiveness not sacrifice.

I have nothing more to fear, Flanders is more powerful than France. So I ask you, do not cry.
Be glad that our future is waiting for the best! I will Wijnendaal restore them: it is to receive
all of us. Then we are back together Go to the falconry, imagine how happy will be our first hunting
expedition! "

A smile of ineffable joy and a warm kiss was Machteld answer.

But suddenly a nagging thought in her mind seemed to stir, her features were sad and silent
they looked to the ground, like someone who is seized by shame.

Robrecht threw an inquiring glance at his daughter and asked her:

"Machteld, my child, why do you suddenly become so sad?"

The maiden raised only half their heads and replied in a low voice:

"But,
my dear father, you say yes do not Adolf, why does not he come with
you?"

It took a moment before Robrecht answered her question, he believed in Machteld have discovered
a feeling that, maybe you even have hidden unconscious in her heart rested. Not without intention,
therefore, he said these words:

"Him still hold back some business,
my child still pull blown up enemies in the Field around, which he
has pursued certain.

Machteld, I can tell you that our friend of Adolf noblest and most
courageous knight, I know, I never looked at someone so manly Behavior.

Twice he has saved my brother Gwijde life, right up to the Kronbanner
France were the heaps of enemies under his sword, and all praised
his bravery Ritter and confessed that it deserves a large part in
the liberation of Flanders.

"

While Robrecht spoke thus, he kept his eyes fixed on his daughter and followed every Movement,
which advocated on their trains. He saw it as joy and pride crumbles and doubted not the correctness
of his idea.

Maria was smitten before Robrecht; it with emotion listening to the
praises of her brother.

While the young Machteld looked at her father in great excitement,
was heard loud voices at the gate of the monastery, which lasted only
moments, then everything was quiet again.

Soon the door opened the cell and Gwijde, Robrecht brother came, slowly, with downcast Air
come, and he approached them and said:

"A great misfortune, my brother is true today in a man who we all hold dear. The Ghent him on the
battlefield, found among the dead, and here in the monastery brought,
his soul hovering on his lips, and perhaps his deathbed near.

He still wants you to see, before he departs from the world, so I ask you to him this to shew
last favor. "

Then he turned to Adolf's sister, adding:

"He can also ask you, noble lady."

A painful cry escaped the lips of the two women.

Machteld fell fainting into the arms of her father, and Maria hastened, without listening to
something more to do with heart-breaking woes to the door and left
the cell.

In response to this noise Two nuns came up and received the impotent Machteld from the arms
of the knight; who kissed his daughter again and wanted to go to visit the dying Adolf. But the
maiden opened her eyes, and when she realized the intention of her father, she tore from the hands
of the nuns go, clutching Robrecht and cried

"Let me go with you, father, that he sees me again. Woe is me, what a deep pain breaks my heart!
My father, I die with him - already I feel the death in me - I wants to see him: hurry, come,
O come quickly! - He dies - Adolf! "

Robrecht looked at his daughter with compassion. Now he was no longer any doubt about the Feeling
which had secretly taken root in the heart of his daughter. This certainty was it neither shocked
nor sullen.

Since it was impossible for his daughter with words to comfort, he pressed it firmly to his heart.
But soon Machteld wrenched the tender Bands, she moved away Robrecht's hand and cried:

"Oh, Father, have pity on me! Is that I once again the voice of my good brother hear that his eyes
look at me again in this life!

"

She knelt down before him, and tears streamed from her eyes while she continued:

"I beg you, do not disregard my plea. Heard me, father! "

Robrecht would prefer to let his daughter with the nuns, for he feared that the Sight of the dying
knight would take much.

But the entreaties Machteld he could no longer resist, he took her by the hand and said:

"Well, my daughter, go with me and visit the poor Adolf.

But, please, I grieve not too much of your despair, remember that God gives us today proved so
great graces has, and that he would be angry if your despair. "As he spoke these words, they were
already underway before the cell.

They had brought Adolf in the large dining room of the monastery, a feather bed on the ground
spread out and laid him out. A priest who was well versed in medicine, had his body, considered
very carefully and found no open wound on him, long blue stripes
characterized the received blows to his skin, and the heavy bruising
the blood was coagulated and gathered together.

After a blood-letting, it was washed with vigorous Balm rubbed. With the expert treatment
of the priest he was a bit strengthened, but he seemed still near its end, though his eyes
were not as were dull and glassy. Around the bed were a great many knights who silently to her
boyfriend mourned. Jan van Renesse, Arnold van Oudenaarde and Peter De Coninck contributed
to the priest helping hand, William of Jülich, Jan van Papenrode
Borluut and Baldwin were to Left, while the young Gwijde Jan Breydel
and the other principal knights bent Main stand at the foot.

Breydel was to look horrible. His hands were scratched in many places, and a bloody Cloth-covered
half of his head. His arms and clothes were torn and the blunt become ax hanging at his side.
The other knights had also one or the other Member wrapped in blankets, and every defense was
terrible bruises and was terrible chopped.

Maria knelt weeping beside her brother.

She had taken his hand and bathed it with her tears, while Adolf fixed his eye on her mat.

Once Robrecht entered the hall with his daughter, grabbed all the knights wonder and admiration:
the hero of them was in trouble came to help was so wonderful, the
Lion of Flanders, Count it!

They all bowed with the utmost respect one knee to the ground and
said:

"Glory to the lion, our Lord!"

Robrecht let go of his daughter,
raised on Mr. Jan van Renesse and Borluut and kissed both on the cheek.
Then he gave the other a sign to rise, and said:

"My loyal subjects,
my friends! You have shown me today, how powerful a nation of heroes
is. Now I wear the crown of my little kingdom with more elation than
Philip the Handsome by France, for you to I can be proud of. "

Then
he went to Adolf, took his hand and looked at him long, in both eyes
of the lion of Flanders bright tears that were gradually harder shone
finally tore and how pearls were flashing to the ground. Machteld
was lying next to Adolf's head on the knees. She had the green veil
which was now soiled and bloody, taken it and wetted with her tears
the sign of their affection, and his sacrifice. She spoke not a word,
Adolf saw not, for she held both her hands to her face and sobbed
in deep sorrow, without stirring.

The priest looked equally motionless
on the ailing knight. It seemed to him as was taking place in a wonderful
change in his features as streamed back more life him. And really,
his eyes got brighter, and his face showed the signs of approaching
death. Soon he turned a look of love on Robrecht and spoke slowly
and effort:

"Oh, my Lord and count, your presence is my comfort sweet.
Now I can die, the fatherland is free! You will have the throne in
peace-filled days ... I happily leave the World, now that the future
of you and your noble daughter promises lasting happiness. O believes
me in my hour of death! Your trouble was for me, your unworthy servant,
touching than you for themselves So sometimes I still nights in my
bed was wet with tears, when I thought of the sad situation of the
noble Machteld and your captivity ... "

Then he turned his head a
little to Machteld, and her tears flowed more abundantly than He spoke
as follows:

"Weep not, noble virgin, I do not deserve this loving
sympathy. There is an even another life, where I will see my good
sister! Remaineth on the earth by the age Your father to be a support,
sometimes in your prayers and think of the good brother, You must
leave ... "

Here he stopped suddenly and looked as surprised about.
I admit that you've gotten on very well so far, but your methods are horribly crude, still."

"My methods?"  Willa was honestly puzzled.  "I wasn't aware that I had any.  When people bore
me I let them alone; but those I find interesting for one reason or another I listen to.  Is
it crude to discriminate?"

Angie bit her lip.

"You can be very simple and naïve when you want to!" she burst out. "But do reserve it for
outsiders, and spare us!  I know you for what you are: sly and sneaking and mean!  Your cheap,
common little airs and graces don't deceive me, they only disgust me more and more!  I wish
Mr. North had left you where he found you, with your gamblers and horse-thieves and roustabouts!"

"So do I," Willa retorted frankly.  "They were men, anyway.  You are unjust because you are
hurt, and I am sorry for you.  I wish you could understand, but I am afraid you will not believe
me.  Mr. Wiley----"

"Will you kindly leave his name out of this discussion?" demanded Angie.  "I am not in the
least jealous, I assure you!  He is nothing to me, I merely object to the underhand way you
maneuvered to receive him alone.  That sort of thing may be all right where you came from,
but it is a little bit too raw to put in practice here."

The appearance of the others brought the quarrel to a close and they went out to the waiting
limousine in a constrained silence.  Mrs. Halstead glanced from her daughter's flushed face
to Willa's pale one, and her lips tightened.  Had Angie been foolish enough to betray herself
to this interloper?

Willa was sincerely distressed.  There had never been any real congeniality between the two
girls, but her heart ached for the other's evident suffering.  Her own conscience was not quite
clear for she had permitted Wiley to show his hand without stopping to think of Angie, so determined
had she been to learn the depths to which this man would descend in his ruthless self-seeking.
She had weighed her cousin shrewdly and she did not believe her capable of deep and lasting
affection, yet she shuddered at the thought of any girl's heart in Starr Wiley's keeping.

They were late, as Angie had prophesied.  The Erskine drawing-room was crowded, and Willa stared
about blankly, her mind still burdened with her cousin's resentment.  Then all at once she
became conscious of a tall figure which disengaged itself from a nearby group and came eagerly
forward.

Mechanically she held out her hand, and a voice sounded in her ears which drove all else from
her thoughts and sent the hot-blood flooding her cheeks and neck in a crimson tide.

"We meet again, Miss Murdaugh.  I told you that it would be soon!"

She found herself looking up into Kearn Thode's eyes, and the wonder of it held her dumb. 
As unconscious as a child of the instinctive movement, she extended both hands, and he caught
and pressed them tightly for a moment before releasing them.

"Mr. Thode!  I had almost given up hope."  The words sprang to her lips.  "I thought you would
come before and I used to look about for you everywhere we went at first.  It was silly, of
course, for I knew that you had your work to do down there, but it would have been nice to
see a really familiar face."

The young engineer, too, flushed.

"I meant to come before, but I was delayed----"  He broke off.  "Was it so awful then, the
first plunge?  May I remind you that you have fulfilled my prophecy?  Just to look at you now
makes me half believe those Limasito days were a dream!"

"They're still real to me," Willa said gravely.  "They are the only real things and real people
I have known.  All this up here--oh! it's very pleasant, of course, and new and amusing, but
it doesn't reach deep down.  It doesn't seem to mean anything."

"So soon?"  He raised his eyebrows in whimsical dismay.  "My sister wrote me of your success
and I was very glad.  I knew it would not change you, but I did not think the glamour would
wear off so quickly."

"Your sister?" Willa cried.  "I'm so sorry that I only met her once. She dined with us, but
since then I have not seen her.  I should like to have known her better."

"She called twice, but you were not at home.  After that she went South and she has only just
returned.  May I bring her to call to-morrow?"

"I shall be delighted," Willa paused, regarding him with a little, puzzled frown.  "Do you
know you have changed, somehow, Mr. Thode?  You are ever so much thinner, and pale beneath
your tan, and you look--oh, almost as if you had been suffering!  Am I imagining things, or
have you been ill?"

"I had an accident just after you left Limasito.  It was nothing serious, just a slight concussion,
but it laid me up for some weeks," Thode replied easily.  "That is what delayed my work and
prevented my return before."

He looked beyond her as he spoke, and his face darkened swiftly. Willa, noting the transition,
glanced over her shoulder to see Starr Wiley, smiling and urbane, standing just within the doorway.

"Another reminder of Limasito," she remarked.  "A most unwelcome one. But tell me about your
accident.  I am so sorry----"

His hostess claimed Thode at that juncture and bore him away to fresh introductions, and Willa
started across the room to Mrs. Halstead when Starr Wiley intercepted her coolly.

"How do you do?" he asked.  Then, without waiting for her reply, he went on: "But that is a
superfluous question, isn't it?  You are looking as distractingly charming as ever.  So our
knight errant has put in an appearance once more!  He looks a little the worse for wear."

"Mr. Thode has been ill," Willa remarked through stiffened lips. "There was an accident----"

"A hootch bottle in the hands of a jealous Señorita becomes an effective weapon, but I would
call it more like fate than accident." Wiley laughed unpleasantly.  "There were some interesting
rumors afloat about our friend's conquests after your departure from Limasito.  He'd be an
expert porch-climber if his practice in gaining access to certain balconies on certain back
streets counted for anything.  I could have told you before, but I did not want to shatter
your illusions concerning the local Paul Revere."

"You are trying to now, however."  Willa looked straight into his eyes and then quickly away
in immeasurable disdain. When we are listened to, so of course we were ready responsible
for that death was a necessary starting all life, that each of us is the nature owe a death and
must be prepared to pay the debt, in short, that death is of course is, unableugbar and inevitable.
In fact we used to us but to behave as whether it would be different. We have shown the unmistakable
tendency to push death aside, to eliminate him from life. We have tried to hush up, and we have
indeed the adage: think of something like the death. How natural to their own. The own Death is
indeed unimaginable, and whenever we attempt to, we can observe that we actually continue to
remain a spectator there. Thus, in the psychoanalytic School of the sentence be ventured: Basically,
no one believes in his own death or, is the same: In the unconscious every one of us was convinced
of his immortality.

As for the death of another, then the man of culture, it carefully avoided in this opportunity to
speak, when the death Some can hear it. Only children sit without fear they threaten each
other with the odds of dying, of that restriction away and bring about even a loved one to
say like the face, as eg: Love Mom, if you will be sadly died, I will this or that. The adult
Cultivated will use the death of another can not be happy in his thoughts, without to seem harsh
or evil, unless he professionally as a doctor, lawyer, etc., with death have to do. At least he
will allow himself to think of the death of another, if this event to a gain in freedom, possessions,
position is connected. Of course can deaths from this our delicacy not hold back and when it
happens , we are always deeply moved and shaken as in our expectations. We stress regular
accidental cause of death, accident, disease, infection, old age, and thus betrayed our efforts,
the death of a need for a contingency depress. A cluster of deaths appears to us as something very
terrible. The deceased themselves, we bring against a particular behavior, almost like an admiration
for one who has something very Difficult accomplished. We put the criticism against him one, see him after
his eventual wrong to issue the command: nil nisi bene De Mortuis, and find it justified that
to him in the funeral oration on the grave stone and the most advantageous praises. Respect for
the dead, that he no longer needs but is not for us over the Truth, most of us certainly on the
respect for the living.

This cultural-conventional attitude toward death is now complemented by our complete Collapse
if one of us dying people close to a parent or spouse of, has taken
a sibling, child or dear friend.

We are buried with him our hopes, Demands, tastes, can not console us and refuse to replace the
lost. We then behave like a kind of Asra, who dying with, when die they love.

This is our relationship to death but has a strong effect on our lives. Life impoverished, it
becomes less interesting when the highest use in the games life,
just life itself, must not be risked.

It is so stale, inane, such as an American flirtation with to which from the outset it is clear
that nothing should happen, as distinguished from a continental Love relationship in which both
partners always remain mindful of the serious consequences need. Our emotional ties, the unbearable
intensity of our grief, make us averse, visit for us and the dangers of ours. We do not dare, a number
of companies to consider that are dangerous, but actually essential, such as flight testing,
expeditions in distant countries, experiments with explosive material recovered. It paralyzes us, the
concern of who the mother's son, the wife of the man, the children replace the father, is when a disaster
happens. The tendency to exclude the death from the life calculation has so many other Disclaimers and
exclusions in the wake. Yet the motto of the Hansa has been: Navigare necesse est, vivere non
necesse! (Sailor must, must not live.)

It can not then be otherwise than that we in the world of fiction in literature, Theater spare look
for the loss of life. There we still find people to die Understand
yes it also bring about, to kill another.

There alone is fulfilled us the condition under which we can reconcile ourselves with death,
namely, if we behind all the vicissitudes of life have kept an inviolable life left. It is too
sad that they can go in life as in chess, where we make the wrong train can to give lost the
game, but with the difference that we no second, no return match can begin. In the realm of fiction,
we find that a majority of life, that we . Require We die in the identification with a hero
to survive, but it and are ready, just for a second time with another undamaged heroes die.

It is evident that the war must sweep away this conventional treatment of death. The Death
can no longer deny, and we must believe in him. People really die; no longer single, but many,
often tens of thousands in a day. It is no accident more.

It certainly seems more random, if that ball hits the one or the other, but that others may
easily take a second ball, the accumulation makes the impression of the contingent an end. Life is
indeed once again become interesting, it has its full complement again . Get

One would have a divorce here in two groups perform, those who even in their fight Life reveal separate
from the others who remained at home, only to be expected have a lose of their loved ones in death
by injury, disease or infection.

It would certainly be very interesting to study the changes in the psychology of the combatants,
but I know enough about it. We must hold ourselves to the second group to which we ourselves
belong. I said that I think the confusion and the paralysis of our performance, from which we
suffer are much influenced by the fact that we our previous Relation to death and can not hold
a new have not yet found. Maybe It helps us to draw upon our psychological investigation to two
other relations to death depend on those we can to primitive man, the people ascribe to the past, and
those others which is received within each of us, but are invisible to our consciousness hidden
in deeper layers of our psyche.

How does the man of the past behavior against death, of course we know only by inference and constructions,
but I think that these funds are quite trustworthy information have shown.

Primitive man has a very strange way, set to death. Not uniform, rather, quite contradictory. He has
a hand made death seriously, him as a waiver recognition of life and its use in this sense, the
other, but also the death denied it forced down to nothing.

This contradiction was made possible by the fact that he took the death of the other, the stranger,
the enemy is a radically different position as his own. The death of the other was his right,
he was regarded as the annihilation of the hated, and primitive man knew not hesitate to bring
him. He was certainly a very passionate Being cruel and vicious than other animals. He murdered
you and naturally. The instinct is to keep the other animals from killing creatures of the
same type and To eat, we need not attributable to him.

The early history of mankind is also because of the murder met. Even today, what our Children in
school learn world history as essentially a sequence of genocide. The dark sense of guilt,
under which the human race since time immemorial is that in some
Religions accepting an original sin, original sin, has condensed,
is probably the Expression of a blood debt with which the primeval
humanity has loaded.

I In my book "Totem and Taboo" (1913), the wave of W. Robertson Smith, and C. Atkinson Following
Darwin, guess the nature of this old debt do and think that even today Christian doctrine allows us
to draw conclusions on them. If God's son to sacrifice his life had to redeem mankind from
original sin, we must according to the rule of lex talionis, the have been retaliation by like,
this sin in death, a murder. Only this could require the victim to his punishment of a life.
And if the original sin against the fault God the Father was the oldest crimes must have been
the man a parricide, the Death of the patriarch of the primitive human horde, the memory image
later to the Deity was transfigured [1].

[1] See this Zeitschr. Vol II 1913th (The return of infantile Totemism.)

One's own death was the first man as surely unimaginable and unreal, like today each of us. There
was, however, for him, a case in which the two contrasting settings death collided and came
into conflict with each other, and this case was very significant
and rich in far-acting sequences.

  It happened, when primitive man one of his relatives saw die, his wife,
  his child, his friend, whom he loved in a similar way we ours, for
love can not be much younger than the lust for murder.

Since he had make the pain in his experience that one can also kill streak, and his whole Nature
rebelled against this concession, each of these was a piece of his loved ones after all own beloved
self. On the other hand him such a death also was not right, because in each of the loved ones stuck
a piece of strangeness. The law of emotional ambivalence, which today still feeling our relations
with the most beloved of our people was dominated in ancient times must still be full. Thus,
these loved ones were still strangers and Enemies were, who had brought a share of hostile
feelings in him [2].

[2] See this Zeitschr. Vol I. 1912, Taboo and ambivalence. And "Totem and Taboo.

The philosophers have claimed the intellectual mystery that contains the image of the death of the
Primitive man gave up and got his thoughts and was forced out of any speculation now. I believe
the philosopher as to think - philosophically, taking little account
of the effective primary motives.

  I would therefore restrict correct the above statement and: on
  the dead body of the slain enemy, the primitive man have triumphed
without a cause to find rack their brains over the puzzle of life
and death.

Not intellectual puzzle, and not every case of death, but the emotional conflict of the death
of beloved and yet also alien and hated persons, research has relieved the people. This feeling was
first born in the psychology of conflict. The man was the death no longer stay away from, since
he had tasted in the grief for the deceased, but he did not admit it because he could not imagine
himself dead. So he left on a compromise, announced the death for themselves, but denied him
the importance the destruction of life, for which he had been missing at the death of the
enemy any subject. In the cadaver the loved one he thought up the ghost, and his sense of guilt
if the satisfaction the grief was mixed, meant that they only created spirits were evil demons,
of whom one had to worry. The changes of death gave him the decomposition of the Individual
in one body and one - originally more - souls would seem, in such a way was thought to be the decomposition
process that initiates the death, in parallel. The continuing Memory of the deceased was the
basis for the adoption of other forms of existence, him the idea of ​​a continued life after apparent
death.

These later existences were initially only appendages to the contract concluded by the death, shadowy,
empty of content and up to late times up low estimate, it still bore the Miserable character
information. We remember what answers the soul of Achilles to Odysseus:

"For living up once we revered, like the gods; Argos sons', and now you have command of the
mighty spirits Here would Dwelling.

Drum let yourself regret not death, Achilles. So I myself, and immediately 'he replied, such
a reciprocating: I do not speak a word of comfort from the dead, noble Ulysses! Yes dear, I want
to order the field as a day laborer A poor man, ohn 'inheritance'
and their own prosperity, As all the host of the atrophied dead master.

    "
    
    (484-491 Odyssey XI v.)
    
    Or in the powerful, bitter-parodic version of H. Heine:

"The
    smallest living Philistines To Stuckert am Neckar He is
    much happier When I, the son of Peleus, the dead hero
    The shadow prince of the underworld. "

    

Only later, when installed, the religions, this Nachexistenz for the
more valuable, fully valid depress output and completed by the death
of life to a mere preparation.

    It was only logical that we also
    live in the past, extended
    the previous Existence,
    the soul and reincarnation devised,
    all with the intention of the death of his to steal important than
the abolition of life.

So early, the denial of death, which we have referred to as conventional-cultural, began.

At the funeral of the loved one were not only the doctrine of the soul, the belief in immortality and
a powerful root of human consciousness of guilt, but also the first ethical Bids. The first
and most significant of the awakening conscience ban was: Thou shalt not . Kill It was as
a reaction against the hidden behind the most beloved mourning Haßbefriedigung
Dead were recovered, and was progressively extended to the unpopular
strangers and ultimately to extended the enemy.

On the latter point, it is the culture, people do not recur. If this rings the wild War has found
its decision, each of the winning fighters happy to be home To return to his wife and children without
delay, and undisturbed by thoughts of the enemy, he has killed in combat or near by the remote-acting
weapon.

It is noteworthy that the primitive peoples who still live on earth and are certainly closer to
primitive man as we behave differently in this respect - or have behaved as long as they have
not see the influence of our culture had. The Wild - Australians, Bushmen, Tierra del Fuego - Is
not an unrepentant murderer, when he returns home victorious from the war-path, must he does
not enter his village and do not touch his wife before he murders his martial atoned by often
lengthy and arduous penance. Of course, the explanation lies in his Superstition near, the
savage fear nor the spirit of revenge the slain. But the spirits of the slain enemies are nothing
more than an expression of his evil conscience, whether its Bloodshed, and behind this superstition
hides a piece of ethical sensitivity, which us educated people has been lost [3].

[3] See this Zeitschr., Vol II, l. c.

Pious souls, our beings like to know from contact with evil and nasty distant want to be sure not
to miss, from the earliness and intensity of the assassination ban
to draw satisfactory conclusions on the strength of ethical impulses,
which we planted have to be.

  Unfortunately, this argument proves even more to the contrary.

Such a strong prohibition can only relate to an equally strong impulse directed. What no human
soul desires, one need not prohibit [4], it shuts itself off by itself. It is precisely the emphasis
on the Commandment: You shall not kill, makes us certain that we of an infinite number generation
descended from murderers, where the desire to kill, like maybe even ourselves, the blood was.
The ethical aspirations of mankind, on whose strength and significance is not to nag need is
a purchase of human history, in varying proportions, they are unfortunately very then the inherited
property of the people living today have become.

[4] See the brilliant arguments of Frazer in the Zeitschr., Vol III. p. 377.

Let us now leave the primitive man and we turn to the unconscious
in his own soul.

  We are based here entirely on the research method of psychoanalysis,
  the only ones in such Deep enough.

We ask: how our unconscious behavior to the problem of death? The answer shall read: almost exactly
like the original man. lives in this as in many other respects man of the past continue unchanged
in our unconscious. So our unconscious believes not to his own death, it is behaving like immortal.
What we call our "unconscious" the deepest impulses of existing layers of our soul, knows nothing
at all Negative, no denial - Opposites come together in him - and therefore do not know his
own death, which we can only give a negative content. The death of faith is therefore nothing
instinctual in our direction. It may even be the secret of heroism. The rational foundation
of heroism rests on the verdict, that one's life not as can be valuable as some abstract and general
goods. But I think more likely be the instinctive and impulsive heroism, which apart from such
motivating and easy after the assurance by the Hanns Anzengruber'schen Stone Breakers: There
you can g'scheh'n anything, the Braves dangers. Or that motivation is only to clear away the
concerns which the disregard the unconscious hold appropriate heroic reaction. The fear of death,
under their rule, we are more often than we realize, is something secondary, however, and usually
arose from guilt.

On the other hand, we acknowledge the death for strangers and enemies, and impose it on them
as readily and safe as the original man. This shows, however, a difference that is used in
the explain reality is crucial.

Our unconscious out the killing is not it she thinks and wants only. But it would be wrong, this psychic
reality in comparison to factual underestimate quite. It is important and daunting enough.
We eliminate in our unconscious impulses daily and hourly all who are in our way that we have
insulted and injured. The "Get him" the devil, which is so often in a jesting Displeasure with
our lips is pressing and that is to say really: get him to death in our Unconscious, it is serious,
powerful death wish.
  I thought I had better tell you before Mason North
gets hold of it and asks questions."

"Much obliged, Vernie, but if he does I sha'n't answer them."  Willa smiled.  "I'll take you
out some day if you like.  The little car is a wonder and you and Starr Wiley would never in
the world have been able to hang on the trail that time if I hadn't meant you to!  If anyone
asks you about the car, however, you never heard of it.  Understand?"

She turned lightly and ran from the room, leaving her cousin chuckling. The simple, formal
little note was pressed tightly to her breast as a most passionate avowal might have been,
and her eyes were like dew-drenched violets when she reached her room.  Thode had come at the
moment of her unapprehended need, and he had fought for her once more, asking no guerdon but
the unalienable right of man to protect the women of his world and kind from insult and contumely.

And she?  She must repay him by thwarting his ambition, dashing his hopes, bringing to defeat
his most cherished plan!  What would he think of her when he learned the truth and recalled
how she had accepted his confidence and given him in return only silence pregnant with deceit?

Her head drooped and burning tears smarted in her eyes, but she held them back grimly.  If
Willa Murdaugh was a self-pitying weakling, Gentleman Geoff's Billie was not, and she would
see the game through! Because of all that the old name had meant she would not be a quitter,
though her own happiness be forever lost.  What was her happiness? she demanded wrathfully
of herself.  A side-bet, nothing more!  She was out for bigger stakes than mere happiness,
and she was playing to win.

Wrapping herself in her fur coat, with a tiny close-fitting cap upon her head, she slipped
out of doors and around the corner to where, half-way through the block, Dan Morrissey waited
with the gray car.

It was commencing to snow; great, soft, feathery flakes which lighted upon her as softly as
thistledown and melted each in a single glistening drop like a tear.  The air was coldly still
and the sky a sheet of lead.

"Have I kept you waiting long, Dan?" she asked as he tucked the robe about her.  "I'm sorry,
I hope you've not been cold.  It looks as though we were in for a real storm, doesn't it?"

"I wisht it'd come down a regular blizzard, Miss," he responded dourly. "Then maybe we could
shake off the boys that have been hangin' on my trail for dear life!  It's not cold I've been,
sitting here trying to figure out how to stall them, but hot under the collar!  Where to, Miss?
It don't make any partic'lar difference, they'll be right along behind!"

"Then around the Park, please, Dan.  You can tell me about them as we go."

She snuggled down in the soft robes as the car leapt and fled like a lithe gray cat through
the storm.  Her thoughts were busy with the new problem; these followers were Wiley's men,
of course.  He had boasted that he would have more able tools to aid him in the future than
Vernon had proved.  Where had he obtained them?

"Are they professional detectives, do you think, Dan?" she asked.

He needed but the word to start him.

"They are that!  I was chauffeur once for a private detective agency, and I know them and their
ways, though these fellows seem to have a new wrinkle or two.  It started a couple of nights
ago when I was waiting in the garage for a call from you, Miss.  A fine big, new touring car
was edged in beside mine and the chauffeur, a little dark feller, began talkin' to me.  I remembered
what you'd told me, and keepin' my own mouth shut, I let him rave.  In just about ten minutes
I knew it was all bunk; he was tellin' too much, tryin' too hard to get thick with me all of
a sudden.  His gentleman was a free-handed sport and what was good enough for him was none
too good for his driver; champagne, the fellow wanted me to go out and have with him, and I
couldn't tell you what-all, Miss."

"I rather expected that," Willa nodded.

"Then, when I got home to my boardin'-house, there was a new lodger in the room next to mine,
a long-legged, sandy-haired galoot.  The same thing began again; he came in to borry a match
and stayed half the night.  I let him down easy, though if I hadn't remembered your instructions
I'd be after sendin' him home through his own transom! Everywhere I've been for the last two
days, barber shop and all, I've been tailed.  It's fun if you look at it in one way, but it
gets my goat, too.  If you say the word, Miss, I'll sail in and lick the bunch of them!"

"No, Dan; not yet," Willa smiled.  "The man behind them is responsible and he's been punished
for the time being, anyway.  How many men are trailing us?  I haven't looked back."

"I made sure of three, but they may be strung out after us like an Irish funeral, for all I
know," replied Dan, gloomily.  "My chauffeur friend is on a motor cycle now, my red-headed
neighbor is in a runabout, and a strange feller in a big car.  There's small chance of losing
them, I'm thinkin'."

"Then drive straight to that apartment-house from which the two taxicabs followed us the other
day.  They've spotted me there already, you see, and I've no doubt they've investigated there,
so another visit won't do any harm.  Wait around the corner for me, as you did the last time."

Willa alighted before the shabby vestibule and without a glance to right or left made her way
in and pressed a button marked "Lopez."  The front door clicked a prompt response and she ran
lightly up two flights of dark and dingy stairs.

A thin, sallow little woman with soft, black eyes awaited her at an opened door and ushered
her into the stuffy garish front parlor where she eyed her visitor in palpable nervousness.

"How are my friends?" Willa asked without preamble.  "They are quite comfortable at your mother's
house?  You have heard from her?"

"Ah, yes!"  The woman replied with the slightest trace of a Latin accent.  "The young lad has
been suffering a little with his back, pobrecito!  It is the climate here, no doubt, but my
mother rubs him with a remedy of her own making and he is soothed."

"And the Señora?"

The woman hesitated visibly.

"She--she sits all day by her fire and talks but seldom, yet she seems well."

"They understand why I have not been to see them?"  Willa eyed her narrowly, for the woman's
agitation boded ill.

"Yes.  They ask when you will come, but they know it must not be for a time."  The Señora Lopez
paused, and then added in a swift rush: "My mother bakes for them tortillas and they are pleased
together.  José begs my mother to tell him of Spain, but the old Señora, she has not the interest.
It is always as if she waited, but she is content."

Willa nodded.  The description was such as she had anticipated, yet despite the volubility
of the other's assurance, the suggestion of something odd and furtive remained.

"Have there been any inquiries for them here?"

The woman smiled in obvious relief, and spread out her hands.

"But yes!  You spoke truly, Señorita, when you warned me of those who would seek them.  In
the evening just after you were here last a gentleman--an Americano--came asking for the Señora
Reyes.  I knew nothing of her."  She drew down her eyelids, significantly.  "Next morning,
there came a young man of our country.  He said that he was from Mexico, but he lied; the speech
of the Basque was on his tongue. The Señora Reyes was his aunt, and he came to tell her that
he had found her lost son, his cousin.  He, too, departed.  Yesterday it was a boy.  He was
an amigo, a compañero of José; he desired to know where he might be found, but he, also, was
unsatisfied.  We are the Lopez--what have we to do with the Señora Reyes or José?"

Her tone of bland candor was inimitable, but it did not eradicate the consciousness of anxiety
and unrest in her bearing at first.  Nothing more was to be learned from further parley, and
Willa presently departed, leaving behind her a substantial roll of banknotes.

Her mind was far from easy, and as she descended the dark steep stairs she came to an abrupt
decision.  Something was wrong and despite the hirelings of Starr Wiley she must know.

"Dan," she began when he sprang down to assist her into the car, "I don't know how it is to
be done, but we have got to lose those trailers.  I don't care how long it takes or how many
miles we cover doing it, but we must manage to get to Second Place, Brooklyn, without being
followed.  Do you think you will be able to make it, or shall I try to give them the slip by
taking the subway?"

Dan reflected.

"There's more than one in the big car and you'd be trailed sure, Miss. Better take a chance
with me, and I'll get you there safely without them knowing if we ride till morning!"

Then began a strange and devious journey.  To Willa, who, aside from her infrequent visits
to the cottage on the Parkway, had seen little of New York and its environs save in the beaten
path of the conventional social round, it was a revelation.  They tore through crooked teeming
side-streets whose squalor was veiled in the falling curtain of snow and shot across broad
avenues with gleaming vistas of light stretching interminably in either direction, to dash
sharply about a corner and off through a lane of canyon-like factories and sweatshop hives.
Once they skirted huge railroad yards and twice they circled along the river's edge between
towering warehouses, with the tang of salt winds swirling the flakes about them and a forest
of tall masts looming up ahead.

Dan Morrissey knew the city as only one can who has grown up practically on its streets and
he was following a well-defined route in his mind as he wove back and forth through the myriad
threads which held together the vast and varied pattern on the loom which was New York, drawing
ever nearer the great bridge.  The runabout had been left behind, but the larger car still
trailed and the sharp exhaust of the motor-cycle reached their ears tauntingly above the subdued
rattle of occasional traffic.

All at once Dan commenced to chuckle and Willa could feel his shoulders shake beside hers.

"What is it?" she demanded with a quick glance at him. A second response is to respond to the suggestion that
there must be some process of development, and should approve this development lies in the
fact that the evil inclinations of man cut in it and under the influence be replaced by education
and culture environment by the affections of good. Then one should however, surprising that in
the evil brought up again so energetically come to light.

But this answer also contains the record you want to contradict us. In reality there there is no
"extermination" of evil. The psychological - in the strict sense, the psychoanalytic - But research
shows that the deepest essence of man in impulses, the elementary nature, all people are alike
and some to the satisfaction original concrete type. These impulses are in themselves neither
good nor evil. We classify them and their statements in such a manner depending on its relationship
to the needs and requirements of the human community. Admitting is that all the impulses which
be frowned upon by society as bad - we take the same representation as the selfish and the cruel - are
among these primitive.

These primitive impulses travel a long path of development, to it to control be allowed in the
adult. They are inhibited, directed to other targets and areas Go mergers with one another,
change their properties, business, partly against the own person. Reaction formations against
certain instincts deceive the content transformation the same before, as if out of selfishness
- would have been affected - altruism, of cruelty. This reaction formations benefits that in some impulses
almost from the beginning opposites occur, a very remarkable and popular knowledge of foreign
money, which one the has named "ambivalence." The easiest to observe and cope with the understanding
is the fact that strong love and strong hate each other so often in the same Person occur together.
Psychoanalysis adds that the two opposite Emotions often take the same person to the object.

Only
after overcoming all of these "Their Vicissitudes" arises out what
is the character a man called, and what with "good" or "evil" is well
known classified very inadequate can be.

The man is rare in the whole good or bad, mostly "good" in this relation, evil in another, or "good"
under such external conditions, decided among other "Evil". Of interest is the experience that the
child's pre-existence of strong "evil" impulses frequently the condition is "a particularly
noticeable change in the adult to the" good guys. The most childish egotists, the most helpful
and most self-sacrificing citizens are, most of compassion enthusiast, philanthropist, animal
rights activists have made little Sadists and animal abusers developed.

The transformation of the "bad" drives is the work of two factors acting in the same sense,
an inner and an outer

.

Tia Juana had seemed contented enough in her new abode for the first day, taking a childish
pleasure in the novelty of her surroundings, but later she had become depressed and sunk into
a moody silence save that now and then she muttered ominously to herself and made strange gestures
with her claw-like hands.

José she had driven from her harshly, only to seize and draw him close, and on the previous
day she had eaten nothing, but crouched through the long hours before the glowing coals of
her grate.  At twilight she had demanded a large cooking pot which she placed upon the fire,
and with an earthenware jar of liquid and sundry packets of herbs from the conglomerate heap
of her luggage, she had brewed a concoction that piqued her landlady's curiosity.

It had not pleased Tia Juana, however, and after glowering darkly into its depths, she had
flung it, pot and all, from the window down into the back yard.

She had retired passively enough, but when the Señora Rodriguez came with her morning coffee,
the room was empty.  There were no signs of a struggle, the silence had remained unbroken throughout
the night, and the front door was found to have been unfastened from the inside, although the
Señora Rodriguez asserted that she had locked and bolted it before retiring.

This argued that Tia Juana had of her own volition slipped away from the house on some unknown
mission, but to Willa such an hypothesis seemed unlikely.  In the first place, the old woman
was heart and soul in the plan in which Willa herself was the moving spirit, and well content
to leave all things to the guidance of her idolized young friend.  Then, too, she had the dread
of the strange new city of one who had followed a long and open trail and would scarcely in
her right mind have ventured forth to brave it on her own initiative.  Had some cajoling or
threatening message reached her which induced her to play into Wiley's hands, or could it be
that Señora Rodriguez had been bribed to aid in her abduction?

Fierce and implacable as Tia Juana's will was, age had taken its toll of her mental strength
and resiliency, and Willa shuddered to think of the coercion which might be brought to bear
upon her bewildered and shaken sensibilities.

Dan noted his mistress' profound despondency, but ventured no remark until she addressed him
just as they reached the bridge once more.

"Dan, you drove a car once for a detective agency, you told me. 

The guilds of Bruges familiar too hard on De Coninck and Breydel, at this moment to give such
an idea space. Their chairmen now belonged to the nobles, they had now two people who were
admitted to Grafenrat and oppose the enemies of free privileges, they could fight openly. They felt like
had to grow their very power by this action and reported thus extends the non-turbid test
joy, jubilation echoed her away until they the voice failed. Then silence the noise, and the jubilation
was only in her face, at their Movements seen.

Adolf van Nieuwland was now one of the stewards and asked them to appear before the commander;
they obeyed and slowly approached the procession of the knights.

In De Coninck trains was no joy to read. He came stately and quiet, without even only to show
the slightest excitement. But in his heart there was profound satisfaction and noble pride. Only had
his usual caution his face get so much in the violence that one could read his emotions rarely out of
them. Now he wanted his independence preserve, and if you then once should ask him something
that was contrary to the benefit of the people; he could tell the prince: who has requested
your favor, what have you given me because, Now that your wrong of me? - Anders at Breydel: he
had his feelings never defeated, and the slightest movement, the slightest feeling that moved his heart,
was expressed in his face, and it was easy to notice that one of his virtues, his great sincerity
was. He also was the tears that streamed from his blue eyes, do not hold back, he bent his head
to hide them, and beating heart stood next to his friend De Coninck.

All the knights and noble ladies were staying and had their horses
over to the squire.

Gwijde let the four weapons carriers come forward and offered the stewards of the most precious
armor is, the armor they were created and the helmet with the blue feather on his head strapped to them.

The
Bruges looked solemn act with quiet attention. Their hearts were filled with satisfaction, and they
were so moved as if they themselves happen to this honor would be.

When the stewards dressed in their tusks were, they had to bend one knee to the ground; Gwijde
then stepped forward and raised his sword to battle De Coninck head.

"Mr. De Coninck," he said, "You are a faithful knight, never violated the honor and never reaches
the sword, except for God, your country and your prince. "

He gave him the custom of the knights that they have a slight blow
with his Battle sword.

Similarly, Jan Breydel was knighted. At the same time came Machteld off the train and stood in front
of the kneeling stewards, they took the shield from the arms the miners and hung it around
the neck of the new knights.

Many viewers noticed that the Sign was first hung around Breydel neck, and that this had to be done
intentionally, they therefore had to do a few steps sideways.

"This crest is a gift from my father for your noble," she said, more
to hingewandt Breydel; "I know, gentlemen, that you will protect them
from all shame, and I am pleased that I participate in the reward
of your love of country.

"

Breydel looked at the young noblewoman with the deepest gratitude,
and his eyes spoke the oath most ardent Affection and devotion.

He would be thrown without a doubt the noble virgin feet have, but the solemn position of
the adjacent knight made them a great impression on him; surprised, he stood motionless, without
speaking.

"Gentlemen, now you can go back to your people," said Gwijde.

"We hope that are you this evening in our advice will, we have a long talk with you have. Bring out
now your troops to the camp. "

De Coninck bowed slightly and went away, and just as it did Breydel,
but no sooner had this few steps away, as he had the burden of the
weapons was vested in him oppressed everywhere he went hastily back
to Gwijde and said:

"Noble Count, I ask your noble to have a favor."

"Speak, Lord Breydel, they should be granted you."

"Look, Tiger illustrious sir," continued the chairman, "you have me
now proved a great blessing, You want me but do not prevent but to
fight against our enemies?

"The Knights came Breydel approached closer to his words and reacted in great astonishment.

"What do you mean," asked Gwijde.

"The fact that these restrict weapons everywhere and pinch me, Count!

I can in the harness not move, and this helmet overloaded so hard on my head that I do not
move your neck can, I assure you that I would have let me kill in
this iron prison as a bound calf.

"

"The armor will protect you against the swords of the French," said the knight.

"Yes," replied Breydel, "which I need but not quite. If I am free with my Ax in hand, I fear nothing.
Truly, as I would make a beautiful figure, stiff and awkward!

No, no, gentlemen, I do not want that our bodies have, therefore, Mr. Graf, I ask you: allow
me to spend up to the struggle citizens and later will I do then with the annoying harness
acquaintance. "

"That You might think as you please, Mr. Breydel," replied Gwijde, are "still and your still a knight.
"

"Well," cried Breydel pleased, 'I am the knight with an ax! Thanks, thanks, illustrious tiger Sir.
"

With this exclamation he ran to his people with hearing him through all sorts of congratulations and
cheers expressed their joy. He had already thrown the whole armor before he ranks the meat reached.
Only the shield he held, the hanged him by the neck Machteld had.

"Albert, my friend," he shouted to one of his men, "take on the weapons and carry them to my tent!
I will bear no iron in my body, while her bare chest with the enemy's weapon is approaching,
I will attend these fairs in the butcher garb. You have made me a gentleman, my companion,
but that does not change the subject! My heart is and remains true to the butchers, and that
will feel the French have.

Come, We go to the camp, I will drink wine with you, as before, I give you every a measure, and then
we drink a toast to the black lion! "

All his companions repeated this call and the limbs were somewhat
in disarray, and impetuous they wanted to go back to the camp.

"Oho, people cried Breydel," so not everyone in his penis, or we are bad friends. "

The other departments were already in motion and turned at the sound of the horns with flying
Flags after the entrenchment back, the train of the Knights moved into the gate and disappeared
behind the walls. Soon after all Vlaemen chatted before their tents by the survey the stewards.
Fleischer was a great crowd in a wide circle, the tankard in hand, to the ground, large pots
were next to them, they unanimously sang the song of the black lion. Among them, on an empty
barrel, sat the Breydel ennobled, as the lead singer in any Verse began, he repeatedly drank
to the liberation of their country and sought by larger make the change password confidentiality
of his stand, for he feared that his Fellows may think he no longer wanted them, as before,
and be their friend and comrade.

De Coninck had locked himself in his tent to escape the congratulations of his Weber; the evidence
of her love for him were too close to him and it was hard to hide the emotion; so he remained alone
all day while the army was devoted to the non-turbid test joy.

XXII.

Rijssel near the town, on an unusually large field, the French camp was pitched. The countless
tents, which were necessary for so many people, covered nearly half a mile Country. Since a
hochaufgeworfener Wall bordered the camp, one would have imagined
from afar, that they had a fortified town in front of him, if not
the neighing of horses, the cries of the fluttering mercenaries, the
smoke of camp-fires and the thousands of flags the presence of a Camp
would have betrayed.

The department in which dwelt the noble knight was on the precious Standards and embroidered troop
visible. While here, velvet tents of various kinds Colors were, they met in the other division
only small tents of canvas or straw at. It seems incredible that not such a large army perished
from hunger, for in those Times led to rare foods with them, but it was the opposite of everything
abundance.

The corn was in the dirt around, and the best food was trampled under foot. The French used
a good means to provide themselves with everything and at the same Time at the Vlaemen hated
to make.

Incessantly large mercenary troops pulled out of the entrenchment, to roam the land and everything
rob, plunder and destroy. The wild Soldiers had grasped the intent of their commander Robert d'Artois
in full, to carry it out, they accomplished the most terrible atrocities that can be made only
in war. As a symbol of destruction with which they threatened Flanders, they had small broom
to their Spears hung, which indicate they wanted: they came to Flanders sweep out and clean; and
in fact, they did not fail to execute this threat. After a few days stood throughout the southern
parts of the country not a single house, not a church, no Castle, a monastery, and even a tree anymore.
Everything was destroyed and destroyed. Care was neither age nor sex. Women and children were murdered
and their corpses unburied the birds of prey, where to eat.

In this way, the French began the fight. Not the slightest fear, not the least Repentance stirred
in the heart of the alien villains in their nefarious business, having regard their great power,
they thought they were invincible, the more cowardly and shameful When was her doing her infamous
weapons they had sworn that the whole of Flanders, the same Los should meet!

On the same morning as Gwijde met the lovely task of faithful service and De Coninck reward Breydel,
the French general had the most distinguished of his knight to a sumptuous feast loaded.

The Tent of the Count d'Artois was unusually long and wide and divided into different areas;
there were apartments for the Knights, some for the squire and weapons support for the valet
and cooks and for various other persons in his entourage. In the middle was a big Hall, who was
determined to turn banquets or meetings of the Military Council and even many knights could not
believe. The striped silk of the tent was filled by innumerable small silver Lily-covered, on
the front of the entrance hung the coat of arms of the House of Artois, a little further to an increase
fluttered the big lily banner of France.

In this gorgeous Chamber, which had been hung with rich tapestries, had for a long carved tables
and velvet chairs established. Truly, a palace could not develop more richness and splendor!

sat top of the table d'Artois Robert Graf. He had already reached an advanced age, was but still
full of vitality, the father of a scar on his right cheek of his bravery in the war and gave his
features even more strict. Was his face with deep furrows brown spots and distorted, yet his
eyes flashed more masculine with all the fire Passion under his bushy brows. His behavior was
wild, and his bold Views revealed the relentless warriors.

In addition to his right sat the aged Sigismund, King of Melinde; age had bleached his hair
and bowed his head, and yet he wanted to attend this battle.

In the company of such many old war buddies he felt the courage in his heart and vowed to return
inside, still to perform some notable feat of arms. The face of the old Prince inspired the greatest
A reverence, gentleness and peace of mind were expressed in it. The good Sigis would Vlaemen certainly
not have fought if it the state of things would have been known,
but one had betrayed him like many others, had given the Vlaemen were
bad Christians, and it would do so a godly work, if they are exterminated
to the last man.

During this time, most passionate religious zeal, it was enough to accuse someone of heresy, to
let him buy everyone in a deadly enemy.

To the left of the commander sat Balthasar, King of Majorca, a fierce
and brave warriors; his features bore witness to the art.

The stare of his black eyes was almost unbearable. Wild joy brightened his face as he hoped,
his kingdom, which he wrested from the Moors was to get back.

Next to him sat Châtillon, former Governor of Flanders, the man who of the tool of Queen Joanna,
the cause of all misfortune was taken place. His guilt it was that so many French in Bruges and Ghent
had been assassinated, he was the cause the horrible massacre that was yet. What flows for revenge
crying blood load on the head of this tyrant! He remembered how humiliating it from covering the Bruges
their city had driven out, and counted on massive revenge, it seemed impossible that the could
resist the combined power Vlaemen so many kings, princes and counts, and inwardly he was jubilant
already, and his face was cheerful.

He was succeeded by his brother Gui de Saint-Pol, who was no less vindictive than he, more you
could also Thibaud, Duke of Lorraine, between Mr John of Barlas and Renauld notice of Trier,
he was the French, with six hundred horses and two thousand archers
come to their aid.

Rudolf of Nesle, a brave and noble knight, sat next to Lord of Ligny on the left Side of the table.
His features betrayed dissatisfaction and distress, and it was clear to , Noted that his cruel threats,
uttering what the Knights against Flanders, not chooses.

In the middle of the right side, between Louis of Clermont and the Earl Jean d'Aumale, sat Godfrey
of Brabant, who had supplied the French horsemen.

Next to them admired the tall figure of Hugo van Arckel Zealanders,
he towered far above the other Knight up, and be sufficiently strong
growth revealed how awful such a had to be warriors on the battlefield.

This knight was nowhere else for many years because in one or other of war camp was at home,
and his bravery and great deeds of arms famous for all, he had a department of eight hundred
men, undaunted gathered and moved with them into all the earth, where there was fighting something.
Several times had he won by his presence to the prince, whom he served, faces, he and his
people were covered with scars. This constant struggle was his life
and his recovery, peace was intolerable.

He had gone to the French camp, where he had many of his Brothers in arms had been found, and since
it merely the desire for war initiated, he took care little question for whom or why he fought.

Among
others were also still the masters of Piedmont Simon, Louis de Beaujeu, Froald, Castellan presence
of Douai, and Alin de Bretagne.

Another group of knights found at the bottom of the table.

Same as if the French they do not have between them, sat on them all together on the least
honorable Place. Actually, the French had it not wrong: the knights were despicable. For expected
during their vassals as real Vlaemen the enemy, were their feudal lords in France Armies.
What blindness drove the rebels to the lap of her mother like a snake to devour? They fought
under enemy flag to the blood of their compatriots on patriotic to
shed floor, perhaps the blood of a brother or a friend's bosom, and
why?

Around the country in which they were born to beat slaves in chains and to subject the stranger.

The
degenerate did not realize that shame and contempt hovered over their heads: they had no heart
to it to feel nagging accusations! The names of these apostates are preserved for posterity:
Hendrik van Bautershem, Geldof van Winghe, Arnold van Eickhove and his eldest son, Hendrik van
Wilrens, Willem van Redinghe, Arnold van Hofstad, Willem van Cranendonc and Jan van Raneel were
among the many others, the most distinguished.

All the Knights were eating from plates of embossed silver and drank the most expensive wines from
golden Cups. The vessels, which were ahead of Robert d'Artois and the two kings were precious
and greater than that of other men, their arms were elaborately carved
in it, and some priceless stone shone at its edge.

During the meal was a lot about the state of Things mentioned, and from the words of the guests
could see it very well, what a terrible Los condemned the Flanders was intended.

"Yes, yes, replied," the commander to a question Châtillon, "everything must be destroyed. These
are not cursed Vlaemen to curb other than by fire and sword, let We live this peasant crowd, so
we had nothing achieved. That must come to an end!

My Men! Let us proceed summarily, so that our swords are no longer with the more bad blood smear to
need. "

"Surely," Jan van Raneel, the LELIAERT, "said indeed, Monsieur d'Artois,
you are right.

It is not possible with these mutineers to be done differently. They are too rich and would
soon feel superior to us.

You do not already recognize that we, the We're also sprung from precious blood, may treat them as
our subjects, - as if the money that they won with their hands, could
improve their blood!

They have built in Bruges and Ghent houses that exceed our castles in splendor; is not it a shame
for us? Certainly, we can not bear it any longer. "

"If we do not carry all eight days of a new war," remarked Willem van Cranendonc, "Must be so
all guild people are killed, because the remaining will not be quiet
behave, so I think that Mr. d'Artois has every reason to spare no ".

"And what will you do if you've killed all your vassals," asked the
vast Hugo van Arckel laughing.

    "By my faith! Then you can plow your land itself. A beautiful
    View, really. "
    

"Oh," said Jan van Raneel, "I know a good backup media, if Flanders from this stubborn band is
clean, I will call French freedmen from Normandy and give them my land. "

"This would really be a part of Flanders, France. This is a good proposal; I would imagine
that the king, so he calls on the other lords, were also this drug
to use.

I think that should not be so hard. "
"Certainly not, sir. Find your my mind is not good? "

"Yes, yes,
we do already get access routes, but first let us start with the square
to clean. "

At these words the grief darkened interior features of
Rudolf of Nesle, for his generosity resisted against such cruelty.
He said passionately:

"But, Monsieur d'Artois, I ask you, we are
knights or not, and we value our honor so small that we live are worse
than the Saracens? Your driving the brutality too far; I assure you,
it will only bring us shame before the whole world. We want the army
Vlaemen the fight and defeat, but that enough! People do not call
this a bunch Farmers, we will have enough to do it! And they are not
the son of her prince? "

"Constable of Nesle," Artois said passionately,
"I know you all over the Vlaemen Dimensions loves. This love you honor,
indeed! Surely you have your daughter inspires such loving An attitude?
"[34]

[34] Adela, the daughter of Rudolf of Nesle, was with Wilhelm
van Dendermonde, one of the sons of the old Count of Flanders, married.

"Mr.
d'Artois," said Rudolf, "that my daughter lives in Flanders, do not
prevent, as good as any Frenchman to be, and my sword has amply proved,
and I therefore have every reason to believe that these knights your
words, not joking Hearing will be paying. But something more is at
heart the honor of knighthood, and I assure you that you bring them
in great danger. "

"What does that mean?" Cried the captain, "you
should understand about it, that you spare the mutineers wanted?  Oh, my dearest, will you--!"

"Here comes Winnie Mason!"  She drew her hands from his and sprang up with a nervous tinkle
of laughter.  "That means we've missed three dances, and you were to have had two of them with
Angie!  You'll be in for a dreadful panning--"

"You wicked little--adorable little--girl o' mine!" he exclaimed softly, as Winnie's mildly
inquiring face appeared around a narrow alley between the close-packed flowering plants.  "I'm
coming to-morrow, before breakfast--"

Willa shook her head, the light waning in her eyes.

"No, not to-morrow, Kearn.  There is something that I must do, something I cannot put aside
even--even for you."

"In the evening, then?  I must see you to-morrow sometime!  It's going to be hard enough to
live through to-night!"

She nodded, and, not trusting herself to speak again, turned and slipped away to meet Winnie Mason.

That placidly dense young man was mightily pleased with the effusive greeting with which she
favored him, and had she vision enough to note it, she might have read in his worshiping eyes
a like message to that which she had just heard.

But she was blind, dazed in the light of her own swiftly gained wondrous happiness.  The music,
the dancers, the little crystal-laden supper-tables, the final romp all passed in a kaleidoscopic
dream before her, and only the wintry night wind beating upon her in a frigid blast, as she
stepped from the awninged passage-way to the limousine, awakened her to a sense of reality.

Just then, the flash of a street-lamp in at the window fell for a passing moment on Angie's
face as she sat half-turned from her cousin and Willa caught her breath to stifle a sudden
startled exclamation. She had seen Angie in many fits of temper, sullen and raging, but never
had the girl's expression been so fiendish!  The doll-like beauty was gone in a distortion
of anger, but there was a suggestion of malignant triumph, too, which aroused Willa's apprehension.

She knew that in her heart Angie despised her as an upstart and bitterly resented her small
success in the social world, beside blaming her for the episode with Starr Wiley.  She remembered,
too, how Angie had betrayed her to him.  In her maddening anxiety for Tia Juana's safety, Willa
had given no thought to the means Wiley must have used to reinstate himself once more in her
cousin's willing eyes.

Was this evidence of fury directed against her because she had been the unwitting cause of
Kearn Thode's defection in the matter of the two dances, or was something deeper and more significant
in the wind?

Willa was not left in doubt for long.  She had scarcely finished her preparations for the night
and was braiding her long black hair into a massive rope, when a light, brittle tapping came
upon her door.

Almost before the wondering assent had left her lips, Angie slipped in and stood before her.
She was still in her spangled dance frock and her round blue eyes were snapping fire.

"I suppose I have come on a thankless mission, Willa," she began. "Every time I have tried
to help you or teach you anything, you have looked on it, in your spiteful way, as mere jealousy
on my part, although why I should be jealous of you, heaven only knows!"

"Please, Angelica!  We have had all this out before and I am very tired.  Would you mind if
I asked you to wait until morning?"  Willa gave her hair a final twist and turned from the
mirror.  "I am honestly sorry Kearn Thode missed those dances with you to-night, but it really
wasn't my fault--"

"Do you suppose I wanted to dance with him?" Angie interrupted in immense scorn.  "I only permitted
him to put his name down on my card in ordinary courtesy because of his sister; she has such
a caustic tongue that one must keep on the right side of her.  If he chose to ignore his dances
with me it was because he was playing a game which you, you conceited little simpleton, couldn't
see through.  Oh, I heard what he said to you in the conservatory--!"

"You listened!"  Willa turned on her at last.  "Lord, what a miserable specimen of a girl you
are, anyhow!  I knew you were spying about and listening at my heels here at home to learn
what you could and run with it to the man who's making a tool of you and a fool besides, but
I didn't think you were so low down as to skulk about and pry into affairs which are no concern
of yours!  Is nothing sacred to you?"

"I was only doing my duty!" Angie returned loftily.  Then her consuming rage got the better
of her once more.  "You dare to speak of anyone making a tool of me!  It is you who are waiting
for anyone's hand! Starr Wiley made a fool of you, and you simpered and purred and thought
you were taking him from me, when he was only amusing himself for the moment because he was
jealous of me with Art. Judson!  Now, in your bursting conceit you think this impecunious fortune-hunter,
Thode, is in love with you.  I listened because it was my duty to keep any member of the family
from throwing herself away and I wanted to see how far he would dare to go.  I'm here now to
tell you the truth."

"I do not want to hear another word!" Willa cried hotly.  "It is no affair of yours and you
shall not speak of Kearn Thode as a--a fortune-hunter!  He is the only real man in this whole
spindling, self-seeking, artificial crowd!  If you listened, you know how proud and independent
he is!"

"I heard, but that was only his cleverness; he knew how eager you were and he simply led you
on to almost propose to him yourself!  That was good stuff about not knowing he cared for you
down in Mexico until you were leaving.  What would you say if I were to tell you that he made
a deliberate play for you from the moment he reached that town?  Oh, he's serious enough! 
He'll marry you if he can; that's what he meant to do from the first."

"I think you must be mad!"  Willa stared at her cousin in sheer wonder. "Why should he have
wanted to marry me?  There were lots of other girls in town----"

"Because he knew who you really were all the time!  He knew before Mason North ever found you,
and he knew, too, what a fortune you were coming into.  You needn't look at me like that, I
know what I am talking about!"

"I don't think you do," Willa remarked simply.  "You must have taken leave of your senses or
else Starr Wiley has been making you believe the silliest sort of lies.  How could Kearn Thode
have known who I was? No one did but--but the man who had made me his own daughter, and he
would not tell me because he did not want to hurt me by letting me know what mean, contemptible
snobs my people were and how they had served my own father for marrying my brave mother!  Kearn
Thode knew nothing!"

"What if I were to show you proof?  Here is a letter in his own hand, telling all about you
and what he meant to do."  Angie pulled a crumpled wad of paper from her bodice and held it
out, her whole body quivering in triumph.  "Read it and then you'll know whether he cares for
you or not!  Read it, I say!"

"And I say to you that if you don't leave this room at once I will ring and have you put out!
Don't you imagine that I can see through a scurvy trick of Starr Wiley's to get back at the
man who beat him twice to a mere pulp?  I do not want to see the letter, I will not read it.
It is all a lie!"

"Then listen!"  Angie smoothed the sheet of paper and fairly danced in her excitement.  "You
shall listen!  You shall know what that man is scheming to marry you for!  There is only a
part of it here, but it ought to be enough to open your eyes, blinded with conceit as you are!"

"I will not----!" Willa began indignantly, but Angie's voice silenced her.

"----'Except for him, of course, no one here knows her real name'," she read, "'and it wouldn't
mean anything to them if they did, but I spotted her at once and later events have only proved
the truth of my suspicions.  She is the undoubted owner of almost boundless wealth and when
I have gone after her and won her consent----'"

"Stop!"  Willa clapped her hands to her ears.  "I will not listen to one more word!  It is
a lie, I tell you!  A lie!"

"There isn't any more," Angie announced with a sly grimace.  "That is the bottom of the page,
but it ought to be enough for you."

"Kearn Thode never wrote a word of it!" exclaimed Willa passionately. "I would not believe
you if you swore it from now till you die!  Go, before I make you!"

"Oh, I'm going."  Angie shrugged, and the letter fluttered from her fingers to the floor. 
"I've no desire for a disgraceful brawl, I assure you!  Of course, I am not familiar with Kearn
Thode's handwriting, but I have proof enough to satisfy me that the letter is his.  If you
marry him now, you will have bought him with your eyes open and have no one but yourself to
blame if you're not pleased with your bargain!  I have done my duty anyway, my dear cousin.
Good-night."

Her footsteps died away down the hall, and Willa dropped into a low chair before the hearth,
covering her face with her hands.  It was Just a trick of Wiley's, of course!  She would not
let her gaze stray to that tell-tale sheet of white paper upon the floor, and yet something
seemed to draw her eyes to it with an almost physical strength.

Wiley must have written it himself and put it in Angie's hands to work what mischief she might
with it.  There could be no harm in one glance at it; a glance which would prove instantly
its falseness, just as she knew it in her heart to be at best a forgery.

Slowly Willa rose and step by step made her way to where the letter lay.  She made no effort
to touch it at first, but it had fallen with the written side uppermost and gradually as she
stared down at it the scorn in her face gave way to wonder and then despair.

The brief note she had received from Kearn Thode, after he had thrashed Wiley at the club,
was engraved deep in her thoughts with every line distinct and the characters on the paper
before her eyes were so similar in every detail that it seemed impossible for them not to have
been fashioned by the same hand.

With grief and horror surging in her heart, Willa rushed to the little drawer of her dressing-table
where the first note had been treasured, and drew it forth.  Then, seizing the other paper
from the floor, she held them beneath the glow of the lamp with shaking hands and compared them.

The next minute she had crumpled them both fiercely and cast them from her, flinging herself
across her bed in a paroxysm of bitter grief and disillusionment.

Kearn Thode had written both letters; there could be no longer doubt. He was like all the rest!
Truth and chivalry departed from the world and her shattered dream, and once more Willa found
herself alone, but in a depth of solitude she had never known before.  Love had gone.

CHAPTER XVIII

MIDNIGHT FOR CINDERELLA

When the late lowering dawn seeped in at the windows, Willa raised herself wearily and crept
to her desk.  Her face with the tears dried upon it was ghastly in the morning light, but her
eyes held a look of grim determination.  Seating herself, she took up her pen and wrote without
hesitation:

"My Dear Mr. Thode:

"I beg that you will not call this evening, that I may be spared the painful necessity of having
you shown the door.  In the light of my present full comprehension of your motives, I no longer
wonder that even you hesitated at the moment of your odious proposal.  The only possible reparation
you can make for the humiliation you have brought upon me in my inmost thoughts is to so arrange
that I need never look upon your face again.

"In all sincerity,

  "WILLA MURDAUGH."

The letter finished, she sealed and stamped it; then her worn-out body slumped in the chair
and her head bowed upon her folded arms on the desk.

The collapse lasted but a moment, however.  The same dogged determination which had forced
her weary spirit to the pronouncement of the verdict upon her love, drove her yet indomitably
on.  As she lifted her head her gaze mechanically fell upon the calendar before her and a slow,
infinitely sad smile curled her lips.  It was the beginning of the third day since Starr Wiley
had issued his ultimatum.  He must carry his threat into execution or admit it to have been
sheer bluff. Curiously, she looked upon the impending crisis with the impassivity of a bystander.
What did it matter now?

Then realization came back in a full tide and she sprang to her feet. The weary plodding search
which had taken her half over the city in the past few agonizing days had been fruitless, yet
must it still continue until definite news of Tia Juana could be learned.  Dan Morrissey had
been faithful, but his ardent spirit outran his detective skill and his initiative advanced
no farther afield than a daily round of the hospitals and temporary shelters of the city's
driftwood, and a hopeless concentration on the neighborhood from which the aged woman had so
mysteriously vanished.

Willa herself had no more comprehensive plan; she had advertised discreetly in Spanish in the
"personal" column of a morning newspaper and followed every tentative line of investigation
which presented itself to her, but messages to each stage of the journey back to Limasito and
exhaustive questioning of the few individuals with whom Tia Juana had come in contact in New
York were alike unproductive of result.

Hopelessness was stealthily enveloping her spirit, but she resolutely fought it down.  She
must not give up, she would not until Tia Juana was safe.  She had been instrumental in bringing
the aged woman to an alien land, and she was responsible for whatever misfortune might have
come upon her.  Then, too, there was her purpose still to be achieved; that at least remained
to her.

At breakfast Angie addressed her in honeyed tones, scrutinizing her hungrily meanwhile for
evidence of the result of her maneuver, but Willa was stonily noncommittal. But there are certain people who have the privilege to sit down may,
for example, the princes, governors of provinces, distinguished Schürfa, while the ordinary Mortals
kneel before the Emperor, Crouching or only allowed. Admitted petitioner may only by far their
concerns put forward in a kneeling position, before and after the ground have kissed. In the
presence of the Sultan, the word "died" can not be expressed, so that he will never reminded
of the death. It describes it, with, for example: it has its purpose met, as ever, the number
"five" are uttered before the Sultan, they say it "4 and 1 or 3 and 2. This strange custom [98]
explained by the fact, because five the number of fingers the hand symbol, the despotic power.
In all Muslim Land is often one of the houses, a red-painted hands or just the impression a single
or several related, we believe this to be able to keep violence and burglary, the house is
hereby made under the invisible power of a strong hand.

      [Footnote 98: S. Jackson, account]

When speaking in the presence
of the Sultan by a Jew, it is asked before, "Excuse me," "Haschak,"
because the Jews are considered unclean.

Earlier the same was true of the Christians, But even under Abd-er-Rahman came from this bad
habit. It goes without saying that no one with slippers in front of the Sultan appears, but
the high officials have the permission, their kept on yellow leather boots to be allowed. Decorations
there are not in Morocco, however, in 1864 it was thought to donate a medal from the Sultan
Solomon (Jewish King). Models were made, similar to that which had King Theodore of Abyssinia can
make. The largest award granted by the Sultan of Morocco, is when He even got rid of his burnous,
and gives him one of those present. Distinguished Persons be admitted to the hand kiss, his children,
his brothers and the next few favorites may also be the inner surface of the hand kiss [99].

[Footnote
99: In S. Aly El Abassi.]

The Sultan made the effort is relatively small and consists mainly
in beautiful Weapons, magnificent horses and a large harem, guarded
by a shiny dressed Band of eunuchs.

      The influential position that these unfortunate creatures under had
the former Moroccan prince, has, however, now stopped completely and
limited simply seeks to unlimited to reign in that part of the palace,
[except] in the auser allowed to enter the Sultan no man person.

Similarly dressed as the Moroccan Maghaseni or riders, All the eunuchs have silver-embroidered girdle.
All have a strong-smelling fragrant names, so was the word on the Mikenes Eunuchenoberst "Kaid
camphor", others were called musk, Amber, thyme, etc. A part of the harem is always traveling
with the Sultan, this is from the favorite wives, quintessence of the four harems of Fez,
Mikenes, Rbat and Morocco. March the Sultan, he has two large tents, each one surrounded by an exterior
of the main tents independent tent wall. Both tents are connected by a camping gear: one lives in
the Sultan, the other for women. In the external treatment of women for the specific tent adhere to
the eunuchs.

The government of the present Sultan is the first minister, by the people Uisir el Kebir is called,
but otherwise the title of "el Ketab uamer" scribe of the prince added. This is the all-powerful
man in the kingdom, a former teacher of the Sultan, and his influence, especially in all external
affairs, is critical, and his name is Si-Bu-Thaïb Aschrin el Djemeni. The direct communication
with European consuls will be held in Tangier, by the local Governor,
who has the title Uisir el uasitha, and his instructions in this regard
from Uisir-el-Kebir, or direct from the Sultan gets.

In all despotic states, and preferably in the Moslem-despotic states, is sometimes the lowest and stupidest
man by a quirk of the infallible ruler, the supreme Items lifted up. Who would oppose this, too? No
one in Morocco, although there is almost omnipotent Kaid, independent government in their provinces,
however, gives is the class of Schürfa, the descendants of Muhammad, the audacity, though, not
far from the Sultan to say in the presence of all the people: "I
am sheriff, and the Sultan has no better Blood in his veins than I,
"is, however, because of the Grossscherif Uesan, who says he came
direct from Mohammed, the Sultan himself, and this alone sometimes
dares to defy - but No one else is in the land of their own in the
presence of the infallible ruler from his Nothingness and insignificance
would be convinced.

So too is the second most powerful man in the kingdom, Si-Mussa, I speak "Minister tituliren
of the imperial house ", would like nothing more than a former slave, a Negro of Hausa. He
only has the merit of having grown up with the present Sultan, and forward offers all the internal
palace affairs. His brother, Abd-Allah-Si, also a Hausa Negro and former slave, dermal minister
of war.

Important items in the court of Morocco is that of Mschuar. The Kaid el Mschuar the Office, Petitioners,
strangers to show off the end of visit to the Sultan.

Since you only exception to the Sultan to be received, may have put his request by another minister,
this Very profitable items, and consequently influential. For any such request must first through
a gift, be properly supported by the wealth of the petitioner. Similarly, Consuls, when they come
in embassy to the Sultan, or in Rbat in the usual audience are received, introduced by the Kaid el
Mschuar.

How many annoyances that for Europeans are connected, as the Kaid el Mschuar down anyone who
has a Aemtchen, its residents seeks to exploit, which has been an attractive Maltzan description.

Was
it what we might call the Moroccan Minister of the Interior, but at the same time large-keeper
is the multi-el-Kaid or taba-taba-el is also currently a completely out of the dust, or, as
the Moroccans are much stronger expressed, from the Dr. ... "Sebel" come up personality. The multi-el-Taba
beräth with the Sultan, the occupation of the Kaid or governor posts in the Provinces and cities.

There
is no actual treasurer in Morocco, or even a finance minister, because Hauptcasse the key to which
is to be Mikenes added that the Sultan himself the fact that a Main divisions of the local
palace, outside a perfectly square cube stone representing, is called
"el-el is chasna," or "bit el mel", treasure house, I may, on its
Confirm intuition, it seems that this massive building from the outside
do not have access, however, is a page to the harem, where the input
will be well.

The Moroccans maintain access to the underground treasure was by means of a tunnel. The interior is described
as a brick lined cavity in the interior of which again contained a brick room is [100]. All this
is probably mythical, for no one, not even the Kaid-etsard or treasurer, has done well ever a look inside.
Similarly, the sums which accumulated in the Treasury should be, probably not as significant
as some have been eliminated.

French Writers have the savings of the Moroccan ruler to 300 million francs, yes estimated
at a billion, without considering that what completed a Sultan had, often from the following,
who came by means of force and usurpation of the throne, in a Days of plunder has been revealed.
As an example, in Spain the 22 million Spanish dollars Reparations had to be paid, it was found
that the treasury was empty. Or could and did not attack the Sultan him? The absence of money
is the Probable.

[Footnote 100: p. Höst p. 221 of the Treasury to the then Höber 50 million dollars angiebt.]

A religious authority in Morocco there is not, the Sultan united as infallible Pope Cultusministerium
synod or supreme, as it is called by the Christians like bodies in his person.

I refrain to go into lower offices at the Court of Morocco will, however, some of them, as they exist
now, mention: the head cook Mul 'el Tabach, the umbrella institution Mul 'el schemsia, saber
carrier Mul' el skin, the Theeservirer Mul 'el ATEI, edible carrier Mul' el taam. All these offices
are usually provided by slaves, but many, and it gives those fifty, of free white people. For
the smallest Handthierung a special Staff available, eg for the one who turns the slippers
of the sultan, so that when he Tighten right back foot just ahead
of it.

      To hold the stirrup, a shell to bring water to take to the drunk teacup
       in reception to the napkin to be enough to sink the present Ireland
has for every little service of the Sultan some specific employees.

You do not think that all these people are salaried. Quite good, often the clothing, which the
Sultan and the prince have passed, and the look of the prince's costume is nothing different than
by larger threadbare - then Food that is all that gets this army
of servants and officials.

But by no means they therefore have no money from everybody who comes to court, they know something
to blackmail; they go to town on the markets, they elicit an unfortunate Jews here soon, there
to a gullible fellow Mosona one who would please or the threat of a Ssahab Sidna resist? It
is the official guide name of all officers and servants. The first minister the Sultan, as
his last slave, not ashamed of this title, which in turn his Reason therefore is because in the
eyes of the Sultan, the chief executive of no greater value when the last slave. expires before
the Moroccan infallibility with the same facility the head of the most upright officials the
sword, as a criminal, it really has earned. Actually, therefore infallibility can only flourish
in such a country completely and exist in Morocco, ie, in a country where the law is nothing
but everything the caprice of a weak-headed fanatic must add.

There is no highest judicial office in Morocco; Kadi of a single province or city, or a small
town can be appealed only to the Uisir or to the Sultan, which confirm the latter as it sees
fit or reject the precipitated sentence.

The individual provinces and cities are sometimes ruled by Kaid and layers, the direct, when
there are provinces and major cities is to be appointed by the Sultan. Just as we find on most maps
delineated the various provinces, there exist them in administrative and judicial relationship
is not. The Kaid face a Kaidat, sometimes consisting of a city with various tribes and villages.
Often, a caid direct from the Sultan dependent, often has a Kaid layers or 40 or even 100 Kaid,
which under him stand. A Kaid sometimes only a Duar [101], a Tschars [102], to command an Irishman
Tribe, sometimes its 20, 50 and more. An example might Kaid commanded at one time the two Rhabprovinzen
with the tribes in it, or as in the time of the reigning sultan they are divided, and are ruled
by two Kaid.

The title "Kaid" is the only official guide, both for the officials of a large province, as for
a small town. Synonymous is the name of "layers", which is preferably in the areas of predominantly
Berber population encounters.

The title of "Baasha" only some particularly excellent governors, such as the Alt-Fes, awarded.
The title of "Khalifa" always includes a delegate in itself, for example, the oldest son of
the Sultan in the reign of the present Emperor, as soon as moved to Morocco, the title "Khalifah
of Fez" as his father's deputy. Versa The Sultan returned to Fez, has one of the brothers of
the Sultan, Muley Ali, in the capital Morocco is entitled "Khalifa". This is the only reminder
that once, and Fes Morocco were separate kingdoms.

[Footnote 101: tent village.]

[Footnote 102: mountain village of houses.]

It would be impossible to precisely specify the boundaries of the various provinces of Morocco's
to do there at all increased, according to the whims of the government today a province tomorrow
is reduced or even cut in half, now a Tribe this, tomorrow that province incorporated, is sometimes
connected with the provinces a geographical name for ever is, sometimes not.

On the slope of the Atlas to the Mediterranean and ocean, covered by the mountain range that
Gehr extends between Cap and Cap Deir el, we have in the north and the Andjera Rif province,
south of the two Andjera Rharb provinces, and then along the ocean
north of Beni-Hassen, Schauya, Dukala, Abda, Haha and Schiadma.

      South of the Rif Hiaina, and south of the Hiaina the province of Fez.

      On the steps of the Atlas are located east of the Haha Ahmar and
Erhammena, then Maroksch (District of the same city), and north of
Maroksch, Temsena and east Scheragna.

These districts have just listed, but not at all a special government have, and their boundaries
are not clearly defined, should the appointments for the designated his localities. In them,
however, are mentioned districts, are as good as the name could lead province. The eastern portion
of the Garet, which province west of the Rif related, in recent years become known as the Beni-Snassen,
an independent political Limited District, with its own Kaid.

South of the province of Fez, of Scheragna, Maroksch Atias and Erhammena are still up the various
districts to the crest of the mountain, but the same name in part unknown, in part, we do not
know with the same certainty specify where they set. Southeast of Fez I could constatiren the District
Beni Beni Mtir and Mgill.

South of Cape Gehr are of the ocean along the provinces of Sus and now (with Tekna), the State of
Sidi Hisham no longer exists [103]. The province Draa is of course only so far as is in force, as
it is inhabited, ie, up to lateral ridge of the river to the west.
  At the bottom two signatures were appended, the first in the
same painstaking hand as the body of the document, but at the second Willa's breath caught
again in her throat and her eyes blurred.

The letters before her, in the same angular heavily down-stroked writing she knew so well,
formed the name of Gentleman Geoff, but a word had been added; one that she had never seen
or heard before.  Abercrombie! Gentleman Geoff Abercrombie!

Had that been indeed the unmentioned surname of the man who had reared her as his own?  Why,
then, had he, who had given her all else, not given her, too, the name to bear?

The document set forth in brief that Frank Hillery, being of sound mind and sole guardian of
his daughter, Louise Frances, did give her to Geoffrey Abercrombie, known as "Gentleman Geoff,"
for absolute adoption; the said Gentleman Geoff promising to bring her up in all ways as his
own child and to leave her whatever he might die possessed of.  It was dated March 12, 1902.

"You will permit me to have photographic copies of each of these papers, Mr. North?" Willa
asked, when the last had been laid aside.

"Certainly, my child."  The attorney's voice was suspiciously husky. "Allow me to assure you
that there will be no hurry, of course.  It will take some weeks to verify and substantiate
this evidence, and in the meantime----"

"Willa shall remain with us, of course," Ripley Halstead said with deep feeling.  "This is
a most unwelcome revelation to me, I may say to all of us.  We have grown greatly attached
to Willa and come to look upon her as quite one of ourselves.--There is no reason, my dear,
why you should not stay on indefinitely.  I am sure my wife will be glad to second me in this."

"Of course."  Mrs. Halstead spoke through tightened lips.  "This has been a most regrettable
mistake, and one which will entail a hideous amount of notoriety, but that cannot be helped
now.  It is an almost overwhelming shock, but it explains many things which I have found incomprehensible.
After all, this poor young girl is the worst sufferer, and she will be welcome here as long
as she cares to stay."

Angie gasped, but made no comment and it was Vernon alone who echoed his mother's assurance
in sincere enthusiasm.

"Thank you," Willa said simply.  "You are all more than kind, but you realize, of course, that
I should feel like an interloper; my place is no longer here."

"But, my dear, it will not do to be too hasty!  Suppose that these documents are not--suppose
no mistake was made in the original identification----?"  The attorney was halted by her steady
gaze.

"Mr. North, you are convinced already.  Why delay the inevitable?"  She rose.  "However, we
won't discuss it further now, if you don't mind. I--I feel very tired."

"Of course, dear child!  We have kept you up till an unconscionable hour!"  Mason North approached
her with outstretched hand.  "Remember that you will always find a friend in me.  Come to me
at any time."

"Thank you.  May I send for the photographic copies of the documents to-morrow?"  Willa turned
to the others in a grave dignity not without its pathos.  "You have all been very good to me;
whatever happens I shall never forget that.  I wish now that I had been more amenable to your
advice and suggestions, but it is too late to think of that.  Good-night."

Her head was still high as she walked to the door, but when it had closed behind her, she paused
trembling as though suddenly bereft of her strength.

In the silence, Angie's querulous tones rose sharply from the other side of the door.

"I felt all along that something was wrong!  I knew that wild uncouth thing couldn't be a Murdaugh,
in spite of the common mother----"

Willa put her hands to her ears and fled madly up the stairs to her room where she sank limply
upon the couch.  Exhausted in mind and body with the storm of emotion which had swayed her
and the strain of the protracted effort of self-control, she fell asleep at last with one determination
firmly fixed in her mind.  The roof which had reluctantly sheltered her should do so no longer.

She awakened in the early morning and lay for a moment in drowsy bewilderment before full realization
came.  Then she sprang from her bed, dressed hastily in her plainest clothes, and, packing
a small bag with necessities, stole softly down the stairs.

She shivered as she let herself out into the cold, bleak morning.  As yet no plan had formed
in her mind save to find a temporary abode in some quiet neighborhood until the search for
Tia Juana was ended in some conclusive fashion.  That was still the first of the duties confronting
her and the change in her fortunes did not swerve her an iota from the charge she had laid
upon herself.  Later there would be two points to be achieved; the one which had actuated her
from the beginning, and another which was even now beating upon her consciousness.

When Dan Morrissey came whistling into the garage an hour later, he stopped short in amazement
at the sight of his employer seated just inside the entrance with her bag at her feet.

"Good-morning, Dan.  Is the car in order?"

"Yes, Miss.  Good-morning."  He stared blankly, and then with a start he recovered himself.
"Just a minute, Miss!  I'll have her out in no time."

"I will wait for you at the Broadway corner.  Bring my bag, please."

Willa had scarcely reached the appointed place, however, when Dan came chugging up behind her
and in a moment they were speeding away from the vicinity of the garage.

"I have decided to leave home, Dan," she announced without preamble.  "I want to live quietly
under cover until we have found Tia Juana and José. It is important that none of the family
nor their friends shall know where I have gone.  Do you know of any place where I can arrange
to board for a time?  The more simple it is, the better."

"Well," Dan remarked, reflectively, "you wouldn't be wanting a plain, poor kind of a home after
all the grandeur you're used to, or I could take you to my sister, Miss.  She's married to
a shipping clerk and lives in a little two-family house up on Washington Heights.  It's quiet
and clean and nobody'd think of looking for you there, but I guess maybe you'd want something
a bit more high-toned."

"No, it sounds splendid!  Just what I am looking for."  Willa paused. "But do you think she
will take me in?  You see, I can't explain very well."

"Explain nothin'!"  Dan reddened swiftly.  "Excuse me, Miss.  Delia's no more of a hand at
askin' questions than me, and she's a good judge of people.  She can tell you're a lady in
a minute, and she'll make you more than welcome if you can put up with the plainness of everything.
I'll have you there in ten minutes."

Dan was as good as his word, and Willa found that he had spoken truly. His sister proved to
be a thin, pleasant-faced woman with a humorous curve to her lips and alert twinkling brown
eyes.  She was ready and willing to take Dan's employer as a lodger and the terms were quickly
arranged.

Willa gave Dan his instructions, and then shut herself in the clean, sunny room which had been
allotted to her and looked the situation collectedly in the face.

The more she thought of the astounding tale of the previous night and strove in vain to find
the slightest corroboration of it in her memory, the more deep sank the roots of her conviction
of its fallacy.  She had not realized how desperate Wiley's determination was to oust her from
his path, nor dreamed that he would risk forged testimony, but now at length she had measured
the strength of her adversary and her own courage rose in a dauntless tide to meet his challenge.

In the beginning the Murdaugh name had meant nothing to her and the inheritance merely a means
to an end, but now with Angie's scornful words heard through the closed door ringing in her
ears, she made up her mind to fight!  Not for the sake of position or name or wealth, but for
the "common" brave-hearted mother whose child she felt herself to be beyond peradventure of
a doubt, and about whose memory all unconsciously a worshiping love had sprung in her heart.

Meanwhile, pursuant to instructions, Dan had presented himself at the imposing offices of North,
Manning and Gilchrist, armed with the note which Willa had written hastily in his sister's home.

Mason North looked up after perusing it, and favored the messenger with a keen scrutiny.

"H'm!  This letter calls for the delivery to you of certain rather important documents, young
man.  I should like to be sure of your identification before placing them in your hands."

"Well, Sir, I've my bank-book here, and some letters----"

The attorney waved them aside.

"I don't mean quite that.  You have been long in Miss Murdaugh's employ?"

Dan was conscious of a movement in the corner behind him and turned to find a mild, round-faced
young man rising from the safe he had been in the act of closing and regarding him with vast
interest.  Dan returned the compliment respectfully.

"How long have you worked for Miss Murdaugh?"

The question was reiterated with a touch of asperity.

"For some time, Sir.  Ever since she caught the French maid trying to spy on her under the
orders of Mrs. Halstead."  Dan repeated carefully but with evident satisfaction the message
which had been given him.  "Miss Murdaugh told me to tell you, Sir, that I was one of the investments
she had made with Gentleman Geoff's money.  She said you would understand."

Mason North nipped at his mustache reflectively and turned to the younger man.  "Winthrop,
I wish you'd go and attend to that Erskine matter for me!"

Winnie departed in obvious reluctance and only when the door had closed behind him did his
father resume:

"In what capacity are you employed by Miss Murdaugh?"

"Confidential agent, she said I was to tell you."  Dan could scarcely suppress a grin of importance.
"She told me to remind you that she asked you particular last night if she might send for the
copies of the papers, not call for them herself, and you said 'yes.'  And you'll excuse me,
Sir, but I'm not to answer any more questions."

The attorney shrugged and turned to the telephone, but Dan interposed quietly:

"Miss Murdaugh ain't at home, Sir.  She's waiting for me and she says she'll not set foot in
the house until I bring her the copies of the papers."

"Very well."  Mason North capitulated, and, opening a drawer in his desk, handed over a rolled
package.  "Here you are.  I shall want a receipt, of course."

He made out one, which Dan signed, and with a nod turned to leave, when the attorney halted
him on the threshold.

"Ask Miss Murdaugh if she can find it convenient to call here this afternoon; tell her I would
like to talk things over with her and will expect her between four and five o'clock."

"Very good, Sir."

Dan departed, colliding violently as he did so with an elderly gentleman who entered the inner
office and banged the door behind him.

"Mason, have you heard from her?  Do you know where she has gone?"

"Who?"  North rose hurriedly.  "What is it, Ripley?  What has happened?"

"Willa.  She's gone!"  Ripley Halstead dropped despondently into a chair beside the desk. 
"Here's the note the poor, proud little thing left behind her.  Mason, I feel as if, between
us, we've given her a beastly, rotten deal."

But the attorney did not heed the final observation.  He pressed the button in his desk excitedly
and when a wondering clerk appeared he barked:

"That young man who just went out of here!  Follow him, stop him!"

"Too late, Sir.  He went down in the express elevator as I stepped out of the local."

North seated himself again with a gesture of hopelessness.

"All right; never mind, then.  Ripley----" as the door closed once more--"if you'd been five
minutes sooner I could have located her.  Why under the sun didn't you telephone me?"

"Her absence was only discovered as I was leaving the house and I came straight to you."  Halstead
stared.  "What young man were you speaking of?"

"Her messenger.  He came with a note from Willa authorizing him to bring her the photographic
copies of those documents, and like a fool I gave them to him!  We've lost our chance of tracing
her, and heaven only knows what difficulties that headstrong wilful child will get into by
herself," groaned North.  "I took her away from her home and friends in Mexico on this mistaken
matter of her inheritance and I feel responsible for her. I'm fond of the child, too; I like
her independent spirit even if it did raise the deuce with us, and if any harm comes to her----"

"I won't let myself think of that!"  Ripley Halstead's kind face had grown suddenly haggard.
"I have a good deal of respect for her clear-headed ability to take care of herself; nevertheless,
I sha'n't feel easy until she is found. But you can not yet say with full conviction, that your king is a Distinguished Knight is? "

"Listen
to me," said Valois as, "believe me, that in the breast of Philip
the Fair, the best heart beats, but cowardly Schleicher advise him
of his entourage.

Enguerrand de Marigny [9] is a devil incarnate, the tempted him to evil, and someone drove him
to unheard-of atrocities. But here forbids me the reverence to name names, but just here the fault
of your misfortune. "

[9] Enguerrand de Marigny, a Norman nobleman, was under Philip the
Fair Palace manager from the Louvre and public works and finance.

    He abused his Violence, wasted the funds of the empire, distorting
    the Coins and impoverished the people by the imposition of
    arbitrary Loads.
    
    "Whom do you mean, then," Châtillon asked deliberately.
    

"Since you ask for a well-known thing, M. de Chatillon," cried Robrecht
van Bethune to, "to hear, I will tell you it is your niece, Joan of
Navarre [10], my unfortunate sister has trapped and it is your niece,
Joan of Navarre, France Money could distort, it is your niece, Joan
of Navarre, the destruction of the Flanders has sworn!

"

[10] Joan was the only daughter of Henry I, King of Navarre, she inherited the kingdom from her
father and was by one of the richest princes of her time. She married with Philip the Fair,
and united by this marriage two crowns on their heads.

    
    
    Châtillon was red with anger. He rode up close to Robrecht and called
    to him: "This is shameful lie! "
    

This accusation hurt Robrecht honor. He quickly pulled back his horse and drew his curved sword from
its sheath.

He was about to pounce on Châtillon - because he saw that his enemy was not wearing any weapons.
With obvious displeasure, he put his sword in back the vagina, and rode back towards Châtillon
and spoke with suppressed excitement, "I believe it is not necessary, sir, you throw my glove.
You know that the Accusation of lying is a patch that can be washed only by blood. Before
sunset I demand satisfaction for this insult! "

"It was," replied Chatillon, "I am ready to honor my niece against
royal to defend all the knights of the world.

"

Now, both silent and rode back to their former places. During the brief controversy the other knights
had listened with very different feelings the words Robrecht. Some French people's comments
were deeply embittered Vlaemen, but chivalry forbade them to interfere in the dispute between two
enemies. Charles of Valois shook his head impatiently, and clear you could read in his face the
anger that caused this dispute had. In contrast flashed across the face of the Count Gwijde a
satisfied smile, and quietly Valois said he, "My son is a brave knight Robrecht. This was your
King Philip experienced during the siege of Rijssel need. Since Robrecht sword has many brave
French slain. The Bruges, which he loved more than I call him the Lion of Flanders, and this honorable
nickname he has at home in the battle of Benevento [11] against Manfred deserves. "

[11] The battle was on Friday the 26th February 1266, beaten.

    Manfred lost in her crown and life. (De Sismondi Sismondi.)

"I
    know Mr. Robrecht for a long time," was the reply. "Do not know
    every one with which Boldness he the tyrant Manfred taken away: the
sword?

The Knights of my country boast its Feats of arms. The Lion of Flanders is considered invincible
-. And rightly so "

A proud smile lit up the face of the old father, but suddenly it grew dark, He bent his head in
deep sorrow, "Mr de Valois, is not that painful double for me to just such a son can leave an
inheritance? He, of the House of Flanders could have acquired so much glory and honor. Oh, and
the captivity of my unhappy Daughter, two calamities that have broken me. "

Charles of Valois did not respond to complaints Gwijdes. For a long time, he wrapped himself in deep
thought and let the reins of his trotter depend on pommel. Gwijde watched with admiration the
noble friend, because he recognized how painful the misfortune of the House of Flanders chivalrous
French saddened.

As directed Karl suddenly radiant with happiness of Valois on the
saddle, and pleased he called from: "A divine inspiration"!

Tensioned saw Gwijde him.

wants to "Count of Flanders," said Valois,
"I, my royal brother that you back on the Throne of your fathers sit
down!

"

"And that means you feel is strong enough to accomplish this miracle, for he has but my country
has entrusted to you? "

"Listen, noble Earl, your daughter is crying disconsolately in the dungeons of the Louvre. Your legacy
is lost. Your children was not a fief.

Now I know an agent that your daughter the freedom and you will reflect your country. "

"Really," cried Gwijde doubtfully, "I was not able to believe, M. de Valois, or your queen
Joan of Navarre would not be alive. "

"No, not that! Our King Philip the Fair holds Compiègne in open court. My sister in law Johanna
just bored in Paris, and there are also maintains Enguerrand de Marigny.

Accompanied me to Compiègne, and let the noblest knight of your country go along, do prostration
before my brother and worships him as a repentant vassal. "

"And then," asked Gwijde surprise.

"He will receive you graciously, and share Flanders and also your daughter. Rely on my word,
because my brother is in the absence of the Queen of the most generous
prince.

"

"I sincerely thank your guardian angel and inspiration for this happy, Mr. de Valois, Euern
for great generosity, "said Gwijde delighted.

"Oh, may God vouchsafe to me that through this means to dry the tears of my unhappy child can!
But who knows whether this dangerous prison gang before France are
not me?

"

"Fear nothing, Graf, fear nothing," he said Valois, "I myself will defend you and you are loyal
to one side. And if our efforts are fruitless, then You secure my signature and my honor safe conduct
to Rupelmonde back. "

Gwijde let go of the reins, grabbed the hand of the French knight,
and pressed it in deeper Gratitude.

Her "a noble enemy," he said, are painful.

During this conversation the whole train had come in a vast plain, through which the Krekelbach roared.
Everyone was getting ready for hunting.

The Flemish knight sat their falcon on his fist. The dogs were distributed
and the Leitbänder hunting birds released.

The women had mingled with the Knights, and it happened that Charles
of Valois now rode next to the beautiful Machteld.

"I think charming damsels," he said, "that you will win the prize of the hunt; for a more beautiful bird
than your I have never seen. He's so smooth plumage, such a strong
swing, as yellow scaly claws.

He is probably quite heavy on your hand? "

Oh, yes - very hard, my lord, "replied Machteld replied. "And although it only for the deep
Flight is trained, he can pursue herons and cranes high in the air.

"

"It seems to me," Valois remarked, "that feed your honor him plenty of nobles. It would be better
to give him a little narrower diet. "

"Oh no, pardon, Lord of Valois," cried the girl haughtily, "but because you are sure is deceptive:
My Hawk is just right. I am not ignorant of Falconry. I myself have this beautiful hawk, raised
and trained to hunt him at night by candlelight guarded.

Out of the way, Mr. de Valois, out of the way, just above the bottom rises to a snipe. "

Seeing M. de Valois after the indicated place, pulled from their Machteld falcons cap and threw
it up.

"Get 'on, my dear hawk," he called after Machteld.

At this command the bird flew skywards. The eye could not follow him.

Some time he rested motionless on his feathers, and his piercing eyes searched the Wild as it
may determine. Soon he saw the snipe fly in the distance. Faster than a low-collapsing Stein
met with the falcon on the poor bird and grabbed it with his sharp claws.

"You see, M. de Valois, cried out Machteld pleased," that woman's hand and dressing well Falcon
can. Here comes my trusty bird returned with his booty.

"

No sooner had she uttered these words when the hawk has to snipe at their Hand sat.

"Grudge me the honor to receive the game from Euern beautiful hands," Karl asked of Valois.

For this question, the face of the Virgin was sad.

She looked imploringly at the Knights and said, "Ah, M. de Valois, take it amiss, I already have my
first prey my brother Adolf, who is standing there next to my father promised. "

»Euerm Ohm Wilhelm, say you will, my noble lady."

"No, our brother Adolf van Nieuwland. He is so good, so kind to me. He helps me during the dressing
of my falcon.

He taught me songs and legends, and plays in front of me on the harp. We all loved him very much. "

While
these words had Charles of Valois, his penetrating gaze searchingly
on Machteld stapled, but he realized that only friendship in the heart
of the Virgin lived.

"Since he has earned the favor," he said smiling, "you not only let
through Please keep my back any longer.

"

Without being able to care for the presence of the other knights,
Machteld cried so loud it: "Adolf, Mr. Adolf," And like a child, she
skipped her snipe swung high in the air.

The youth was riding on its reputation up to her.

"Adolf," she cried, "that's your reward for the beautiful proverbs that you have taught me."

The
young knight bowed respectfully before her and was happy to snipe
at reception.

The knights looked at him with envious curiosity and was looking for more than one on his
Face to discover secret love, - but in vain! Suddenly they were out
of their curious Research startled.

"Quick, Mr. van Bethune," said the head falconer, "Take off the cap Euerm vultures hawks and
throw him, for there is a rabbit! "

A moment later the bird already floated high above the clouds came
and then vertically on the fleeing deer.

It was a strange sight. For when the hawk in its claws the back of the volatile rabbits had struck,
he clung there, and so rushed both wind forward quickly, but did not last long. Just as she in
a scrub passed by, the falcon clawing with one claw and held firmly with the other the game that
it fortkam not as much as it wriggled and squirmed too. Quick, some Dog removed from the paddock.
They went after the rabbit and took it from the hawks.

Good wins over the bird circled the courageous dogs and flew over
them, until the hunt servants; then he rose to high, and expressed
his pleasure in strange phrases to express.

"Mr. van Bethune, exclaimed Valois," that's a bird, which weakens
its prey brave. A Geier beautiful falcon!

"

"Yes, noble Earl, he is the allerprächtigste," replied Robrecht.

"You should even his Eagle Claw admire. "

With these words he threw up the decoy. The hawk, seeing this, returned immediately to the Faust
his master's back.

"Look," said Valois Robrecht and showed the bird, "you see only the
beautiful blonde of his plumage, the silver-white breast, and her
high, bright blue claws!

"

"Yes, Mr. Robrecht, however, this is a bird that needs to fear no eagle," answered Valois, "but
his leg is bleeding apparently."

Robrecht, who had examined his hawk accurate cried impatiently:

»Falk carrier, come quickly here to me, my bird has been seriously squeezed. Oh God, The poor
animal has brought his mouth too much. Take care of him well, my faithful Steven. His Death would
make me very sad. "

He handed down the injured hawk to Steven, who almost cried about the incident because because
his position was to teach and to train the hawks, he lay these animals
as Kids at heart.

Hardly had the most distinguished men raised their hawks, so started with all the other The hunt
began.

Within two hours they caught all sorts of high-flying game, such as ducks, gulls, herons and cranes,
and also the lower trending partridges, thrushes and curlews.

As the sun was at its zenith, the clear horns echoed through the plain. The whole train gathered again,
in slow steps went back to Wijnendaal.

    Heading Charles of Valois took his conversation with the old
    Gwijde again.

Although the Count of Flanders'm not without suspicion of a trip to France, he wanted to take
it out of love for his children despite the risks. He decided on the advice the French commander, with
all the nobles who were left to him, Philip the Fair to throw your feet to give this humble
tribute by his compassion. The absence The Queen made him hope that Philip the Fair would not
be inexorable. -

Robrecht van Bethune did not come into contact with Châtillon, they
avoided to meet, and none of them spoke a word. Adolf van Nieuwland
now rode beside her and Magtelt Uncle William. The virgin was all
of the evidence to busy a song or a Opposition to memorize the Adolf
auditioned her, because from time to time, called the astonished Noble
women: "How beautiful he says that! What is it Mr. van Nieuwland a
clever troubadour. "

So they finally reached Wijnendaal. The whole
train ride to the palace. Behind him moved to the Bridge is not on,
and the portcullis was not let down.

A few moments later, the French
knight in full armor left the castle. As they rode across the bridge,
Châtillon said to his brother: "You know that I this evening must
defend the honor of our niece, and I expect that you will be my second.
"

"Where's the bold example against Robrecht van Bethune?" Said Saint-Pol.
"I do not know me It seems, you will lose out here, for the Lion of
Flanders is not a kitten, you can not touch without gloves. That you
should even be known! "

"What's going at me," interrupted Châtillon
angry. "A Knight's familiar skill and his courage and raw physical
strength! "

"You're right, brother, a knight may yield to no enemy,
but he should not recklessly expose to danger. I would have to speak
in your place the dark Robrecht, as much as he wanted. What do you
take care of his words, even where he's our prisoner. "

"Hush, Saint-Pol,
such words are probably not a knight! Lack of courage to you about?
"

As they exchanged these words, she disappeared with the other knights
in the trees of the forest.

Now let the weapons servants the portcullis
down, pulled onto the bridge and were not to see.

III. 

Knight's
friend in need or the minstrel, which the hospitable door of the castle
Wijnendaal had opened, was located first on a small square open space.
On his right were the stables, in which a hundred horses without any
difficulty could be accommodated, in front lay the manure pile, where
numerous ducks and pigeons running around. To his left was a building
that houses the servants of the weapons and Troßknappen contained.
Further back were the siege guns for times of war. There were large
Rams and rams with their support beams and cars, then traps the projectiles
in should throw the beleaguered city, and also those with whom one
large stones at the could send enemy gates or walls.

Finally there
were all sorts of storm bridges, pitfalls, tons of fire and countless
other Tools of war set up.

Just in front of the arriving troopers
brought the count's palace, with its stately towers over the lower
buildings that surrounded him. A stone staircase, at the foot of two
black Lions rested led up to the first floor and square in a long
flight rooms. In many there was a bed for each guest, while others
with the old weapons armor Counts of dead or decorated with banners
and standards were captured.

On the right, in a corner of the building
was a small room which is different from the other different in everything.
His wall clothing showed the entire history of the crusades in life-size
Images.

In the one picture was Gwijde, covered from head to foot
with an iron armor, and held the knights who surrounded him, contrary
to the cross [12].

[12] The count was Gwijde with the Saint Louis,
King of France, in the fight against the Saracens.

In the background,
several soldiers who had done it on the road. The next picture represented
the battle of Massura, where the Christians had won the victory in
1250. Saint Louis, King of France, and Count Gwijde were among the
other through their Banner indicated. The third image showed a gruesome
spectacle. Many Christian knights were plague-stricken, struggling
with death, in a barren steppe between the terrible corpses and horse
carcasses. Black ravens circled over this accident site, waiting for
the Death of a knight to be able to eat his flesh.  Willa, won't you let me go to my father and tell him it's all right, that you will
stay?  He may not have found the Murdaugh heiress in Limasito, but I'd like to tell him that
he found my wife!"

Willa's eyes blurred and a rich color dyed her cheeks as she replied softly:

"Dear Winnie!  I'll always love you for this, and respect you, too, even though what you suggest
is impossible.--'Presumptuous'?  You don't know what a big, fine thing you just proved yourself
capable of!"  Her voice was not quite steady.  "Willa Murdaugh was eligible, even a catch,
I suppose, but now, when I am stripped of everything that counts in your world and nothing
is left me but a past which would bar me from polite society if I tried to batter down its
prejudices alone, you offer to brave its opinion, to give me the greatest thing a man can give
to a woman.  It's splendid of you!  I--I can't tell you how wonderful it seems to feel that
there are still men like you in the world.  But, Winnie, I couldn't marry you!  I'm awfully
fond of you, but not in that way and one of the things I couldn't accept in the creed of your
world would be to marry a man I didn't love.  Even if I did care, I don't believe that I could
bring myself to accept your sacrifice, but I shall never forget your generosity."

"Don't, please!"  Winnie thrust out his hand in a passionate gesture of negation.  "The generosity
would have been on your part and the sacrifice, too!  What does it matter who your own people
were?  You are yourself, the bravest, finest, truest girl in all the world!  I knew you couldn't
care, but, oh, I hoped that if there was no one else you would try to like me enough to give
me an opportunity of proving to you that I could make you happy anyway.  I would be so awfully
good to you, and so proud!  It is you who would be giving all, not me, and I should try all
the rest of my life to be worthy of you.  Willa, dearest, won't you think it over, and let
me come again?"

She shook her head with a sad little smile.

"I am leaving to-night, Winnie, and going far away.  I may return sometime, quien sabe?--but
I have played a lone hand ever since Dad was killed and I've got to go on to the end.  You're
wonderfully kind, wonderfully dear, but I have a long trail to follow and I must travel it alone."

"You're leaving to-night!"  He turned and walked to the window where he stood for some minutes
gazing out at the blank darkness before him in silence.  When he broke it at length and turned
again, his face was very pale but composed.

"You will write and let me know where you are and that all is well with you?"

"Perhaps," Willa said gently.  "At any rate you will know that I shall think of you always
and value your friendship as the one worth-while thing in all this experience.  I wish I could
have cared for you, Winnie, in that way, but it couldn't be."

"I understand."  His voice was very low.  "Remember that I am your friend, if I can be nothing
more, and I shall be waiting.  If you ever want me, or need me, you will have only to send
me a word and I shall come if it is half across the world.--I'm going, now.  Don't be afraid
that I shall tell anyone where I found you.  I can't bear to say it, but it is 'good-bye',
Willa.  I--I hope, wherever you are, that nothing but happiness will come to you.  Good-bye,
best and sweetest and dearest----"

His voice broke, and Willa held out both her hands.

"Good-bye, Winnie.  You're going to be happy, too, some day.  I'll always be proud of your
friendship and what you have offered me.  Our trails may cross again some day, and if they
do I shall be glad, indeed.  Till then, good luck and every wish of my heart to you, my pal!"

Winnie pressed her hands, then dropped them and stumbled from the room. In the machine, he
turned and waved.  Willa stood in the window, her slender form outlined against the light behind
her, her small head proudly erect, and it seemed to the boy's blurred, exalted gaze as if an
aura of golden haze like a halo surrounded it.  A passing glance and he was swept along into
the darkness ahead, the vision and the memory of her all that remained to him.

CHAPTER XXI

THE RETURN OF TIA JUANA

"I tell you, Starr, it's all very well to play a waiting game, but we've got to start something
and start it soon, or we'll be up against the worst fix we've ever struck in our lives, and
that will be going some!"  Harrington Chase paused in his restless pacing of the private office
to regard his partner with troubled eyes.  "We've got to make a big killing or we're due to
go under, and you know what that'll mean."

Wiley flung himself around in his chair to face the other.

"I've moved heaven and earth to find that old she-devil!" he exclaimed. "The biggest obstacle
is out of our path now, as you very well know, and if Tia Juana would only turn up, we could
put it all over her. Gentleman Geoff's Billie is no longer in a position to interfere if she
wanted to, thanks to my fortunate discovery of the adoption papers in Arizona, and when I get
my hands on the old woman----"

"You've been saying that for the last month," Chase observed, adding with a sly smile: "I'm
not undervaluing the lucky chance that put those documents in your way, my dear fellow!  What
has happened, anyway, in regard to that affair?  Until the Halsteads and North have proved
the validity of the papers they won't make any premature announcement, of course, and I'm only
supposed to share the knowledge, common in their circle, that Willa Murdaugh has gone to spend
the winter in the South."

"Oh, they'll spring the news about the beginning of Lent, I imagine, when the social calendar
is clear and they won't have so many explanations to make," Wiley responded carelessly.  "It's
bound to be a nine-days' wonder, but things move rapidly in this town and she'll be almost
forgotten by Easter."

"What's become of the girl herself?" asked Chase. Despite the large
Danger was the faces of the people guild noted no cowardly fear. Rigid and motionless, gazing it
on the enemy. Their hearts beat faster, and flew her breath, but that was only the first Impression
at the sight of the enemy's camp. Soon the blood flowed more freely in her veins, they needed
without taking his eyes from the enemy; manly fire glowed on her cheeks, and the hearts of all citizens
were motivated by revenge and heroism.

One man was cheerful and happy on the rampart. His lively and contented Smile into thinking that
he looked forward to a happy hour. Sometimes he turned his flaming eye of the enemy on the battle-that
flashed in his strong fist, and then He stroked the murder steel
with tender love. - It was the undaunted Jan Breydel.

The Chairmen of the guilds gathered at De Coninck and expected silence
his advice and his commands.

As usual, thoughtful and the chairman of Weber for a long time, looking dreamily the French army across.
That took the restless Breydel too long, and he cried impatiently:

"Now, Master De Coninck, what you command it?

Should we make a loss and the French Snakkers attacked, or should we kill them on our walls? "

The head of the weavers did not answer, he was still staring in deep thought on the hostile work
and had just the big storm tools.

Although the other tried to read his thoughts on his face, she could not perceive as cold weighing
it. Peace and calm filled De Coninck heart, but no Hope for a successful outcome. He saw that
it was impossible, the power of the enemy to resist, because the
giant ballista and high towers made the enemies of the Bruges too
superior because they were not equipped with such powerful tools of
war.

When he is satisfied exactly, had that city when it came to the assault by fire and sword would
be destroyed, he decided to make a sad means he turned to the Stewards, and said slowly:

"Comrades, the emergency forces, and our city, the flower of Flanders, had been sold without
that we knew it. In this situation we can only help with care.

Must you also such a victim of your noblest feelings hurt, so consider
your privacy, well, that although the hero of his blood for the Rights
of its citizens shed, to praise, but is that the Daring is foolish,
the his country brings boldly in danger.

This benefit is not a fight ... "

"What? What? Cried Breydel, "utilized here is not a fight? Who you are one of these words? "

"Careful and dear to my birthplace," said De Coninck. "We may as Vlaemen on the ruins of our city
with the weapons die in hand, we would like between the bloody corpses
of our brothers fall down shouting: we are men.

But our women - our children - we should be defenseless against the unbridled revenge deliver our
enemies? No, courage has given to man to be his weaker fellows shielding ... We must The city
passed! "

The bystanders were alarmed at these words, when a bolt of lightning
between them would settle down, and they looked at the umpire with
angry eyes.

The disgrace seemed too large and all cried in great excitement:

"The city passed? - "We

De Coninck endured cold their reproachful eyes and answered:

"Yes, comrades, it might also displease your freedom-loving hearts, it is still the last Way out
that we have left to save our city from destruction. "

Jan Breydel had heard these words with a bitter rage. When he realized that for many Leaders
were wavering and inclined to submission, he stepped forward and
exclaimed passionately:

"The first who dares not to speak of surrender,
I stretch a traitor to my feet down!

I'd rather die laughing on the corpse of an enemy, but that I am
dishonest life remain.

What do you think then - that shake my meat from the danger? See
them there with their Bare sleeves!

Her heart beats wildly, wildly they demand the fight, and I will tell them: surrender the city!
By God, they do not understand such language.

I tell you: We protect the city, and who is afraid of going home to his wife and child. The
hand which opens the door stretches, for the last time - my ax to judge the cowardice! "

Enraged, he hastened to his companions and walked hurriedly from her limbs up and down.

"The city passed! - We passed the city, "he repeated again full of angry scorn.

Some leaders of the guild had heard that and asked him, amazed at what he would say so; he burst out:

"Grace
us the sky, men! My blood is boiling in his veins - oh the shame, the unbearable shame! The weavers
want to pass the city on the Snakkers.

But I implore you, my brothers, will remain with me, we want to die as a true Vlaemen. Behold the ground,
it We are, - here were our fathers! Well, here is also my grave! Yes, this is our And the grave of the
French! Our death may benefit the weavers cowardly to eternal shame. Who is no real meat to go
home, like it. - Speak, who goes with me into death? "

The butcher raised a frightful cry, and thrice thundered the terrible words: Death! like a
groan from unheilschwangerem abyss. "In the death," it sounded from seven hundred angry throats,
and the calls are mingled in the horrible din of battle axes, they
ground on the steel awl.

Meanwhile, most had to be convinced by stewards De Coninck, that his sad Proposal and the only
salvation was that the city passed like it when Breydel recalcitrance it would not have made
it impossible. In view of the many terrible storm tools that the hostile armies peaked, they decided
at last, without regard to Breydel resistance connect with the enemy in negotiations. As the
irritated Breydel perceived their intent, roared he with rage like a wounded lion and ran
with an unintelligible yelling at De Coninck going on.

The butcher saw the anger its leader and followed him out of order and full Revenge greed.

"Death!
Death, "cried the furious crowd," Death to the traitors De Coninck, "

De Coninck life is in grave danger, yet approaching, he saw the angry crowd, without betraying
the slightest fear.

How insane compassionate look, he looked with folded arms, firm and
unshaken against the invading butchers.

Facial from the surging crowd always sounded violent the terrible cry of "Kill him, the traitor!"
and have the ax hovering over the head of the great man. He stood unbowed as a Giant oak tree
that defies the power of the storm wind, and the bulwark on which he stood, he commanded the
crowd like a king.

At that moment took place in Jan Breydel features a strange transformation. When he would suddenly
deprived of all power, he let the ax fall down limply at his side. He admired the size of the man
whose advice he did not want to accept. But only a moment; as soon as he saw, hovering in
the danger of a friend. He threw the butcher, who already De Coninck swung his ax over his
head to the ground and shouted:

"Hold, men! Hold! "

Initially was not part of this command, as was tangled in the murder
of a single howl Voice does not penetrate.

So put Breydel menacingly in front of the umpire and was angry Weber
circling his hatchet.

Only then did his aides understood that he was shielding De Coninck;
they lowered their weapons and waited in a menacing murmur what was
coming.

While Breydel tried to get her to rest, a herald came from the French Camp to the foot of the
wall on which they stood. Attracted the attention of citizens turned
Therefore, the enemy's messengers.

He called to the besieged "In the name of the mighty King Philip of France you can be rebellious
subjects Châtillon ask my lord, if you want to hand over the city
at the mercy?

Do not give her within ten minutes corresponding answer, so destroy
your festivals by storm tools and everything from fire sword and destroyed.

"

All turned their eyes on De Coninck. Him whom they wanted to kill just yet appeared, it now asking
for advice. Even Breydel it looked inquiringly, but none received the required Response. De Coninck
stood silently among them, as if all this came on him at all.

"Well, friend De Coninck, what you advise, then?"

Asked Breydel.

"The fact that you pass in the city," it came back cold.

Again began to murmur, and the butchers to rage.

But an imperious sign in January Breydel brought them to rest.

"You think not, De Coninck, he said," that we defend with undaunted courage the city can? Here
can expect no bravery biggest success? O unhappy hour! "

Clearly, one could read in this matter to the deep pain in Breydel
trains.

Had his Eyes also previously annealed in fighting spirit, was now all heroism is extinguished.

De
Coninck now raised his voice and said to the bystanders Quantity:

"You are all my witnesses, that only love of country leads me are.

For my home town I gave me great price of your anger, and so it would have found it not difficult, by
enemy hands to fall, but the protection of the Pearl of Flanders
is my sacred duty.

Dishonor me, ridiculed and mocked me as a traitor, and I know my duty. Nothing, and it may also
can be so painful to dissuade me from that goal, but once I set you
free, if I do not now act according to your wishes.

For the last time I tell you, it is our duty to hand over the city. "

Who would have seen in this short message Breydel mines, would have
different Perceived emotions: defiance, courage and grief changed
it, and betrayed his hand-wringing the fight with his passion.

When the words "We, the city must pass" once again, as a death sentence
in his ear, beat him intimately embraced grief, and he was lost in
thought for a while.

The butcher and the other guild people looked alternately in silence the two Leaders at.

"Master Breydel," said De Coninck, "if you do not want to be in our
fall fault they say yes quickly.

Here comes the herald of the French back, the ten minutes are over! "

Breydel awoke suddenly from deep thought and said sadly:

"You want it, Master? Must it be so? Well then, give over the city! "

With these words he seized stirred De Coninck hand and two tears accounted
for intimate pain his eyes, and a dull sigh crept across his lips.

The two chairmen saw with a view to, it reflected her whole state
of mind.

They understood and connected to each other stirred in his arms.

Such was the two greatest men of Bruges - heroism and reason - chest to chest, in mutual Admiration
sunk.

"O brave brother," cried De Coninck, 'You have a great soul!

What internal struggle have Through your lives! But you have passed him! "

In this touching sight a joy lightning went through the whole crowd,
and all disagreements disappeared from the hearts of the brave Vlaemen.

On De Coninck command rang three times shattering the horn of the weavers, and their herald
called out to the French messenger:

"Is your commander safe passage to our ambassador?"

He gives safe passage, to use in war, in his fidelity, "was the reply.

On this assurance through the portcullis was raised, established the bridge, and two Citizens
left the city: De Coninck and the harbinger of the guilds.

When she into French Camp came, they were led into the tent of the commander Châtillon. De Coninck approached
with bold face the Governor and said:

"Monsieur de Chatillon, the citizens of Bruges you can through me, their messengers proclaim,
that they do not want useless shedding of human blood and have therefore decided that you City to
deliver, but since only this noble feeling it pushes into submission, they can Offer you the following
agreement: that the cost of the royal collection by some new Load of the third estate purchased,
sold that the magistrate and no investigation the causes of the rebellion is made. Wollet tell me
now if your on these conditions received! "

The features of the Governor's darkened.

"What does this language," he cried, "how dare you to me to impose conditions, I only put forward my storm
tools needed to transform your walls in ruins? "

"That may be," said De Coninck, 'but I tell you, and weigh my words
well: before a Frenchman to climb our walls, the trenches of our city
with the bodies of your people be filled.

We are by no means lacking in military equipment, and history testifies
that the Bruges to die for their freedom. to know "

"Yes, I know that did you ever awarded by your stubbornness, but who cares me little, for the
courage of the French, knows no obstacles. I want the city to grace or disfavor have, that's my
answer. "

Châtillon was the sight of the many craft people and their defiant
stance on the ramparts been satisfied in the context of the upcoming
Battle of anxiety. was a precaution he wanted the surrender of the
city.

    He knew the bravery of Bruges, and he was therefore very glad
    when the arrival seemed to herald De Coninck his wish, but the proposed
Conditions it went against the grain.

However, he would have perhaps allowed with the ulterior motive of their performance to escape
later, somehow, but he distrusted the chairman of Weber and doubted
the sincerity of his words. To determine whether the Bruges really
wanted to defend to the utmost, he was in a loud voice to the Command
to put the tools in storm activity.

During the trial, De Coninck
intently watching the moves of the commander and indecision and adjustment
is read. He became convinced that a struggle not Châtillon wanted.
He was therefore on his proposals, regardless of the institutions
that already for the Assault were made. The cold steadiness De Coninck
deceived the French General. He felt safe now that the Bruges did
not fear their city and persistent would be defending, and because
he is not his whole army, including Flanders, this single trade sake
was at that game, so he started with De Coninck on the conditions
of the transfer to negotiate. After much back and forth Eden, they
agreed at last to mean that the magistrate should remain in office,
the remaining points were granted to the Bruges. The Governor made
in turn, a condition that he could store as many soldiers in the city.

When
the seal was placed by both letter and signed, De Coninck returned
with the Herald of the Weber back to town. The conditions were announced
in all the streets. A Half an hour later did the French army with
flying banners and trumpet victory gorgeous Catchment, the guild people,
however, disassociated himself full of pain and grief back to their
homes. Then came the magistrate with the LELIAERT forth from the castle,
and spread apparent calm about the city. 

X.

Because now that the
city was entirely within the power of the French, so began Châtillon,
seriously thinking about the fulfillment of the wishes of the queen.
She had instructed him that to drag young Machteld van Bethune to
France. It seemed to stop anything because his soldiers had occupied
the city. But reasons of prudence held him for now of it back. Above
all, he wanted to consolidate his power in Bruges, enslave the guilds,
a Fort built [26]. Then he thought to capture the daughter of the
Lion of Flanders and surrender the Queen.

[26] It began in fact with
the construction of the fort on where now are the water mills, but
he was not finished.

Adolf van Nieuwland had been with the entry
of the French Machteld greatly concerned about, because he now felt
abandoned vulnerable to the enemy.  A Chinaman with a huge bundle upon his head, a slatternly woman brushing
the dry, powdered snow from the path, a tawdry one pattering along, her rouged face pitiful
in the clear merciless light; red-shirted miners crawling like ants to the yawning shaft-mouths
half way up the mountainside.--This was Topaz Gulch on a certain wintry morning.

In the office of the Palace Hotel, the proprietor tossed aside his week-old Chicago newspaper
and rose with alacrity as a slender, girlish figure, clad in a great fur coat, came lightly
down the stairs.

"Everything all right, Ma'am?  Did the missus make you comfortable?"

"Yes, thank you."  The girl nodded, smiling.  Then her face sobered. "I wonder if you could
tell me--may I ask how long you have been here in Topaz Gulch?"

"Five years, Ma'am," he returned promptly.  "For a boom town that didn't grow as was expected,
nor yet peter out entirely, Topaz is holding her own and business ain't so bad; besides, the
air is good for the missus.  That's why we come in the first place."

The girl had paused at the window, gazing up the western slope.

"That is the Yellow Streak?"

"Yes'm, that's the mine.  Folks thought at first that she was going to pan out another bonanza,
I guess, but now she's just about profitable enough to make it worth while to keep her going.
Great town, this must have been when she was first opened up."

The girl scarcely heard.  She was thinking of the weary, consumptive young time-keeper who
had struggled up that gray slope with daily weakening tread and of the girl who, with her baby
in her arms, watched him perhaps from the door of one of those dilapidated, weather-worn shacks
upon which she herself now gazed.  With blurred eyes, the erstwhile Willa Murdaugh turned to
her informant.

"Have there been many changes since you came?" she asked.

"Well, no," he considered.  "Once in a while some hustler from the Coast lands here and runs
up a concrete store, but usually he don't stay long; there ain't enough doing.  The population's
always shifting; there's been a whole new outfit up at the mine since we come, but everything
seems to go on just the same, so you couldn't rightly call it much of a change.  The moving-picture
houses are about all that's marked any difference in things here, I guess."

"I wonder if there is anyone left in the town who was here fifteen years ago."  Willa spoke
with ill-concealed eagerness.  "Who is the oldest inhabitant you know of?"

The proprietor looked his surprise.

"Well," he began at last, "there's Bill Ryder; he come in with the first rush, they tell me,
and he still runs the Red Dog Cafe.  Then there's Pete Haines, a half-witted old cuss--begging
your pardon, Ma'am!--that's got enough dust cached somewhere to keep himself drunk perpetual;
and the Widow Atkinson, and Big Olaf, and--and Klondike Kate."

He hesitated at the last name, and a brick-red flush suffused his stolid face, but Willa paid
no heed.

"Who are they?"

"The Widow Atkinson runs the eating-house for miners at the end of the street; hard-shell temperance,
she is, and they say Atkinson used to wait on table with her apron tied round him and dassent
even smoke indoors."  He paused.  "Big Olaf is a Swede who got hurt in the mine years ago and
the company gives him an annuity.  Kind of cracked he is, too, but harmless.  You see, Ma'am,
when the big boom died down gradual and the town settled into a one-horse gait, the young folks
naturally pushed on to the next strike that promised a fortune, and the old ones drifted back
to where they come from."

"And Klondike Kate; who is she?" Willa persisted.

Her host shifted from one foot to the other in an agony of embarrassment.

"She--she's just a woman that stays on here because there ain't any other place for her to
go, Ma'am.  She does odd jobs when she can find any to do and the missus helps her out now
and then, but she ain't the kind you'd want anything to do with.  The missus'll tell you if
you ask her."

"I understand," said Willa quickly.  "Is that the Red Dog over there, where the man is sweeping
sawdust out to the road?"

She had crossed to the door and opened it, and her host approached, peering over her shoulder.

"Yes'm, that's Bill Ryder himself."

"I would like to talk to him," Willa announced.  "I want to ask him some questions about the
early days here."

"I'll fetch him for you!" her host offered, recovering hastily from his astonishment.  "You
just wait here, he'll be right pleased to come----"

"No, thank you.  I will go over, myself."  Willa fastened her cloak with a decisive air.  "He
came with the first rush, you tell me?  Then he should be able to remember what I want to learn."

She picked her way across the hummocks of frozen mud powdered with snow in the road, and approached
the rotund, jovial-faced little man who was swinging his worn broom energetically in a cloud
of sawdust.

He paused as she neared him, his jaw sagging at the apparition of a dainty, richly dressed,
strange female alone on the street of Topaz.

"Good-morning.  You're Mr. Ryder, aren't you?" she smiled.

"That's me, Ma'am."  He pulled off his soft-brimmed hat, revealing a wide expanse of shining
pink scalp, fringed with a scanty growth of grizzled hair.

"The proprietor of the Palace Hotel tells me that you are one of the oldest inhabitants left,
Mr. Ryder, and I wonder if you would mind telling me something of the people who used to live
in Topaz Gulch years ago.  I am trying to locate some lost relatives."

"I'll be glad to tell you anything I can, Ma'am."  His round face quickened with interest.
"I keep bachelor house, but if you don't object to walking through the bar--it's empty now--there's
a room back where we can talk."

He led the way and Willa followed him.  Bare and ramshackle as it was, the sight of the bar
and the little tables fronting it brought acutely to her memory a like room, larger and more
resplendent, with baize-covered tables and flaring oil lamps; a tall, spare figure inexpressibly
dear to her memory replaced for a moment the rotund one before her and the veil of the past
seemed lifted.  She was back once more in the Blue Chip.

The vision was dispelled, however, when she found herself in the little back room, scarcely
more than a closet, with room enough only for the rusty stove, table and chairs.

"Private poker-room," Mr. Ryder announced with pride.  "Enough coin's changed hands here to
buy the greatest gold-mine in Nevada!  Make yourself comfortable, Ma'am.  Now, who was it you
was looking for?"

"Do you recall Jake's place, the dance-hall that was burned down?" Willa began.

"Like as if it was yesterday!"  The little man seated himself in the chair opposite and put
his hat on the floor beside him.  "Topaz was a roaring gehenna in them days and one night Red-Eye
Pete started in to shoot out the lamps at Jake's.  One of 'em exploded and it was all over
in no time.  Red-Eye himself and Ray Clancy, the pianner-player, and two o' the girls was lost.
I got a busted arm and most o' my hair singed off going in after 'em, but 'twarn't no use."

"You knew the--the girls?"  Willa had difficulty in controlling her voice.

"Sure I did!  Blonde Annie and Miss Violet.  Annie was just a--a girl like you'd expect, Ma'am,
but Miss Violet, she was a regular lady. He was pale, his
eyes wandered wildly, and many noticed that two fingers of his right hand with Blood was tainted.
No one dared come near him, and the death shone from his eyes, and who He looked at the penetrated
every look like an arrow into the soul. The blood on his fingers made they tremble even more,
a terrible idea let them guess where it came from. Certainly had He reached into the wound of his
mother and out of touch these terrible fury drawn to its power increase, must increase its
revenge! So he walked speechless through the woods until the evening, the camp covered with
darkness and his eyes, his Comrades escaped.

When it came to De Coninck Aardenburg, he assumed his two thousand Weber command one of the first
leaders and sent a messenger with instructions to the captain Lindens. After He had prepared the
union of the three Army divisions to Saint-Kruis, he swung again on his horse and rode straight
to Bruges. There he had his trotter in a hostel and went on foot in the city. Nothing came to him
in the way, for it was late in the Evening, the gates were open and see no soldiers as the sentinels
on the ramparts. Terrible silence reigned in the streets, had to go through it. Immediately
before he was a little house in St. Donat halt. He wanted to knock, but he was aware that no
longer had the apartment door and the entrance was draped with a long strip of cloth. This
house and its rooms might be well known to him, for he lifted the cloth and strode straight
to the store to a small back room, which by the vague light of a Lamp was lit. Between the ruined
household effects umherlag on the floor, sat a woman crying at a table. She held two small children
pressed firmly to her breast and kissed she sobs as she would be happy to have at least retain
its richness. Later in an angle that was illuminated by the lamp half, sat a man: he had the
head in his hands and seemed to sleep.

At the unexpected appearance of De Coninck the woman was terribly
frightened.

She pushed her children firm announced itself, and a loud cry of fear. The man reached for
his Dagger, but when he realized his chairman, he stood up and said:

"O Master, what a painful burden did you set me as your gebotet me, in the city stay, the grace
of God alone has saved us from the inevitable death. Our houses are looted, murdered and hung our
brothers, and God knows what tomorrow happen is. O allows me to go to you after Aardenburg. I
beg you earnestly "

De Coninck not replied to that request, and he waved to the guild
journeyman into a corner, the was the darkest, and then said in a
low voice:

"Gerhard, as I left town, I left you with thirty other
fellows, to discover the attacks of the French.

I just chose you to do so because I your Your courage and patriotism know. The death of your comrades
you have probably scared: is so, then may you leave for Aardenburg today. "

"Master," said Gerhard, make "Your words troubled me.

I fear death quite not, but my wife and my poor children remain exposed to all evil here. Fear
and Terror they cause disease. They cry and pray all day and the night gives them the Forces
again. Could you see them, how pale they are! If the sight of me all this suffering, all this
fear can be affected? I am their father and protector. And They crave not only to me the comfort
I can give them is it? O Master, believe me, a father suffers more suffering than his wife and
children. And yet I am ready to forget everything for their country, even the mine, if I you
with anything can be useful, You may expect me. So talk, I feel that your important to me Arrangement
have to give. "

De Coninck took the brave Gerhard hand and pressed it stirred.

"Another soul as the Breydel, "he thought.

"Gerhard," he exclaimed, "You are a decent company, I thank you for your loyalty and your Courage.
So listen, because I have little time. You have to quickly go to your comrades and inform. Tonight you shall
secretly sneak them into the pepper street. You alone will be climb the wall between the dam and
the Kruistor. Lays you flat on the ground and behold after the area of ​​Saint-Kruis out.
Do you see a fire lit in the field, so throw You with your comrades on the guard and opens
the door;. It should stand in front of seven thousand Vlaemen "

"The gate will be open at the appointed time, therefore be, please,
without concern," said Gerhard cold blood.

"Is it safe?"

"Quite sure."

"Then good night, dear friend.

God bless you! "

"And be well with you, Master!"

De Coninck left the guild journeyman return to his wife and moved
away from the house.

So he came to a splendid apartment in the old hall. He knocked, and the door was opened.

"What do you want, Vlaeme" asked the servant.

"I wanted to speak to M. de Montenay."

"Yes, but you have no weapons? You can not trust you. "

"What you care about that," said the chairman;! "Go and tell your
master that he spoke De Coninck wants.

"

"Lord my God! De Coninck's your name, then you will probably come in bad faith, "This! The servant
ran hastily up and came back after a few moments.

"You want to come up," he said,. "Wollet me, please follow"

De Coninck, he led up the stairs to the entrance of a room. Montenay sat at a small table on which
lay his helmet, his sword and his iron gloves. He saw the Chairman in surprise, and the bent
before the mayor and said,

"Lord of Montenay, trusting in your righteousness I came here. I am firmly convinced I do not
have to regret this boldness. "

"Certainly," replied Montenay, "You shall return, how you came."

"Your generosity is proverbial among us," continued De Coninck, "I was just therefore if it please
your noble to show you that we highly respect a geradherzigen enemy. Châtillon Today our city
the rage of his mercenaries surrendered, eight of our innocent brothers hang. Themselves to
prayer, Lord of Montenay that it is our duty to her death revenge, for what the Governor could
blame them other than that they are his tyrannical Commands did not add? "

"The subordinates must obey his master, also like the punishment still be so severe, it is
to him, not condemn the actions of his superiors. "

"You are right, Lord of Montenay, it is called in France, and because
of your noble law subject because of Philip the Fair, so it behooves
you to carry out his commands.

We but are free Vlaemen and can not bear the shameful chains longer, because now the Governor
in his cruelty went so far, so I can give you the assurance that will soon flow into the blood in streams.
If the enemy us fate, her behieltet French victory, then you were little slaves, because we
want to die. But how Anyway, so I came here: not a hair of your head
should you be hurt by us.

The house in which you find yourself, we should be holy, no Vlaeme
to the foot of the Threshold of your dwelling place.

Receive on my word. "

"I thank the Vlaemen for their love to me, but I do not support the protection offered by your
me now and will never make use of it. Fell really the kind before, so I would under the Governor's
banner and not in my apartment there, and if I die, will It happened to the sword in his hand.
But I do not think it will get that far because the disturbances are likely to be subdued. You,
Chairman, I advise as a friend, the country quickly to leave. "

"No, sir, I am leaving this country do not lie the bones of my fathers in this Earth. Please,
remember that nothing is impossible that French blood shed by us may be, then remember my words.
That's all I had to say your nobles. I wish you good-bye, God take you under his protection. "

Montenay
covered exactly the words of the umpire and was held to his great sorrow that they hid a terrible
secret. He therefore decided to monitor closely the next day Châtillon to admonish and even
some to the security of the city to order. But he did not suspect that he feared would occur
as soon lay down to bed and slept quietly.

XVII.

Behind the village of Saint-Kruis, a few arrow shots of Bruges, was
a small copse, the magpie bush under the shady trees, the residents
of the populous city, usually on Sundays .

Was The trees were not very dense, and soft grass covered the earth like a green carpet. At
two clock at night Breydel was already on the fixed point. It was The moon was hidden behind
heavy clouds, impenetrable darkness.

Whispering softly breathed a sigh of wind through the leaves, and the monotonous sound of the
leaves multiplied yet the horrors of this terrible night.

At first glance, one could in Elster Busch no exercise and only on closer inspection would
have been the many people like dark shadows sprawled on the ground noticed. In each figure shone
a flickering star, as if the lawn turned into a vault of heaven.

It was as if you have thousands by the handful luminous dots strewn about. These stars were axes,
on the smooth steel, the little light reflected at night.

More than two thousand butchers were the dozen, all in the same position
on the earth, their hearts beat, their blood flowed rapidly, because
the long-awaited hour, the hour of revenge and redemption was near.

Largest silence among the people, and something secret, Coubre hung
like a magic veil over the silent army.

Breydel was deep in the bush, one of his comrades, he if his intrepid all particularly loved
was beside him stretched out on the floor.

Sotto voce they chatted:

"The French are not prepared for this strange awakening," said Breydel, they sleep " well, because
they have a stubborn belief, these villains.

I'm on their faces curious when they see my weapon at the same time and death to himself. "

"Oh, my hatchet cuts like poison, I sanded it until I pulled the hair
from the arm so shear could, and I hope that this night will be blunt.

Otherwise, I loop it never again! "

"It went too far, too, Martin. The French treated us like a herd of dumb ox and think that we
should yield to their tyranny, but, God knows, they do not know us and when they judge us according
to the LELIAERT damned fool. "

»Call Yes, those bastards: Healing France!

They flatter the stranger, but they should something to do! When I cut my ax so carefully, I
have also thought of her. "

"No, sir, the blood of your country people would not shed your. De Coninck has forbidden it.
"

And Jan van Gistel, this cowardly traitor: he is about staying alive "

"Jan van Gistel shall die! He must for the death of De Coninck old
friends account .

Make But he should be the only one. "

"That is for others apostates remain unpunished? You see, master, I'm such a thought hurt, I
can not bring myself. "

"Your punishment will be big enough - shame and scorn is given to them, we will mock and revile.
Tell me, Martin, makes you not shake the thought that you all spit in the face, you might
say, "You are an apostate, a coward, a traitor? This shall befall
them.

"

"Really, Master, from your words I feel a cold shiver down my body! What a terrible Punishment,
indeed a thousand times harder than death. What hell for them if they have a Flemish Heart possessed!
"

They were silent for some moments, when they heard something in the
distance as people steps, but the noise vanished quickly, then went
on Breydel:

"The infamous French have killed my old mother.

I've convinced me: an enemy sword has pierced the heart that loved me so dearly. They felt no
Sorry for her because she had given birth to a Vlaemen inflexible,
but now I will also have no pity for them and also avenge my blood
and my country.

"

"Let us also give grace to win? Let us also prisoners? "

"Misfortune on me if I am caught someone or give him life! Add about Grace? No, they take heart
from the murders, trample the corpses of our brothers in the hooves
of their horses.

And you think, Martin: Now that the bloody shadow of my dear mother I always have in mind, I could
see a Frenchman, without getting into a frenzy?

O, with my hands, I would tear it, tear with their teeth when my hatchet by many victims would
die. But that can not be my weapon had been me long been a faithful companion. "

"Listen, Master, the noise increases by way of dam! Wait a little! "

He lay with his ear to the ground, then stood up and said:

"Master,
the weavers are not far, only four bow shots."

"Come now, we get
up! Still goes along the ranks and say they lie. I'm going against
De Coninck, so he knows on which side he can place his people. "

A
few moments later, came four thousand weavers from various quarters
in the woods and lay down, as they were told to silently down on the
floor. The silence was hardly disturbed her arrival, and soon there
was no sound to hear more. Only a few people could we see go by a
host of others, they brought the leaders of the order to to go to
the east side of the bush. When they were gathered there many, they
gathered De Coninck to take in order to receive his orders. The began:

"Brothers,
today has the sun irradiate our freedom or our death, fighting fearlessly,
as are you the love of country teaches; Reflect well that it for the
city, as the bones rest of your fathers, for the city, as your cradle
stood, must contend. Give no mercy, kill all the French, you fall
into the hands leave, not even a drink of this foreign weed left.
We or they must die! Is anyone among you who still feels compassion
for the people our brothers have hanged or beaten mercilessly for
these traitors to our Counts have captured, poisoned his child? "

A
murmur slipped under the canopy of the trees there, so dark and greedy
vengeance that this Sound alone could fill the heart with fear.

"You
will surely die," gave the leaders to answer.

"Well," continued De
Coninck continued, "today we will be free, but we are even more Courage
need to preserve our freedom, for without doubt, the French king with
a new army to Flanders. come "

"So much the better," he remembered
Breydel the word, "then cry even more children to their fathers must,
as I weep for my poor mother. God rest her soul! "

Breydel had interrupted
De Coninck. The feared, the time to give them the necessary instructions
could give to be short, and continued:

"Listening to what you have
to do: as soon as the bell of Saint-Kruis strikes three, let your
people , Be divided up and returned to the city. I'm going with some
fellow the walls move, and will then immediately open the door by
the Klauwaerts that I have left in the city, draws silently into the
city and take the following direction: Champion Breydel with the butchers
will occupy the Speitor and then with his people in all the streets
to distribute the next Snaggaartsbrücke.

"No.  I have suspected it from the moment Starr Wiley announced his discovery, for he had threatened
me with it in advance; had tried to bargain with me, in fact."  Willa paused.  "I had intended
to go on from here to the Flathead Lake country in Montana and then to Arizona in an effort
to establish what you have discovered.  I am anxious to know how you stumbled upon the truth."

It was only when they had reached the little hotel sitting-room and established themselves
before the replenished stove that Kearn Thode enlightened her.

"You may remember, Miss Murdaugh, that I knew Starr Wiley before I met him again in Limasito,
and that knowledge alone would have impelled me to distrust at sight any claims which he might
produce, no matter what their nature," he began.  "When Winthrop North told me that our friend
had been the means of proving you were not the granddaughter of Giles Murdaugh, I doubted,
and when I learned the name which Gentleman Geoff was supposed to have signed to the adoption
papers with the trapper, I knew the whole thing was a frame-up.  Gentleman Geoff's name was
not Abercrombie."

"How do you know that?" Willa asked, amazed.

"He told me the truth himself, just a little while before he died," Thode responded.  "I gave
him my word to keep his confidence, but now in your interest I know that he would have me speak.
He was Geoffrey Rendell, of a fine old family, university bred and with a brilliant future
before him, if he had so chosen.  I have traced as much of his career as anyone can ever know
now and I will never betray the reason for his ultimate choice, but you may rest assured that
his nickname was no label of chance or whim.  He was a gentleman always in the truest, finest
sense of the word."

"Nothing could ever make me doubt that for an instant," Willa said with glowing eyes.  "There
could have been nothing discreditable in his past and he was a clean sportsman in the life
he chose, square and philosophical; a game loser, a generous winner!  Poor Dad!  Mr. Thode,
tell me how you succeeded in learning the truth."

"When I was convinced that trickery was at work I persuaded Winthrop to let me see and photograph
the adoption agreement.  With that as a basis I went straight to Pima, in Graham County, Arizona,
where Frank Hillery, the trapper, had died and Wiley professed to have run across his papers.
Hillery died only seven or eight months ago, you know, and it wasn't difficult to find out
all about him.

"He landed there in the spring of nineteen four, and opened a little store with general merchandise.
He was still keeping it when he was stricken with typhoid last year and died.  I readily found
the widow who had kept house for him all those years and interviewed his friends. His long
sojourn in the wilds evidently had their reaction when he settled down in civilization once
more, for he became exceedingly garrulous, and his friends were familiar with every detail
of his past life.  His favorite narrative was of the coming of Gentleman Geoff with you to
his cabin; of the death of his own little daughter and of Gentleman Geoff's long illness and
subsequent gratitude and generosity to him.  Your foster father, in recognition of his hospitality
and care, had given him sufficient money to start in business, and Hillery never forgot it.
When he died he left no papers except a brief will, and his old trunks and boxes remained undisturbed
in the attic, until about three months ago when a strange young man appeared in Pima."

Thode paused and Willa caught her breath.  She had momentarily forgotten the narrator himself
in her interest in his story, and the quick color came and went in her cheeks.  It seemed to
the young engineer that she bloomed like a splendid rose in the homely, bare little room and
the wistfulness deepened in his eyes, but he went on in a sternly impersonal voice:

"The man was Wiley, under an assumed name, of course.  He posed as a nephew of the dead man,
and when the beneficiaries found he had no intention of attempting to dispute the will, being
wealthy himself, they gladly made friends with him and told him all they knew of his late uncle.

"Wiley went to board with the widow, and it seemed only natural that he should want to go through
his uncle's effects.  The widow gave him free access to the attic, and it was there, in one
of those boxes, that he professed to find the packet of papers which he afterward produced.
Undoubtedly the marriage-certificate and the maps were genuine; only the article of adoption
had been added.  He left soon after, and nothing further was known of him there.

"When I learned that much, I, too, went to board with the widow and learned every detail of
Wiley's stay.  One of Hillery's oldest friends had a son who had gone to the bad and was serving
a term for highway robbery in a prison near Phoenix.  I found that Wiley had taken a great
interest in the lad and paid him more than one visit, promising to use his influence to have
him pardoned.  I went to Phoenix, talked with this prisoner and a few others, and incidentally
looked over the records.

"I discovered that Wiley had interested himself particularly in an ex-forger whose term had
expired at about that period, and it was understood that Wiley had provided him with a new
start in life.  I hunted up this man--it wasn't hard for he had bought a ranch and was trying
to go straight--and under threat of arrest obtained his written confession.

"The money for the fresh start was the price Wiley had paid for the execution of the false
document.  I have the confession here in my bag, and I will show it to you later.  It is absolutely
conclusive proof. Miss Murdaugh, I may be an accessory after the fact, but I felt sure you
would not want the forger punished, and I gave him time to sell out his ranch and disappear.
I am under the impression that he has gone to Canada to enlist, and if so----"

Willa shook her head.

"No.  I don't believe he had any idea of the purpose to which the document would be put, or
its far-reaching effects, and if he has gone to war, his punishment is on the knees of the gods."

"Exactly.  He did not know.  The name of Murdaugh wasn't mentioned in it if you remember, only
those of Hillery and the supposed Abercrombie."

"'Abercrombie!'" repeated Willa meditatively.  "I wonder how Wiley came to add that?"

"I finally solved that.  Wiley wanted to add clinching verisimilitude to the document and took
a long shot.  Like many another amateur criminal, he overreached himself, and that one fact,
you see, led to the whole discovery.  He must have followed Gentleman Geoff's trail through
his wanderings from Topaz Gulch, seeking a loop-hole to prove you were not the baby originally
adopted, and when he came upon the story which was told to him in Missoula, Montana, of Gentleman
Geoff's illness in the trapper's cabin on Flathead Lake, one can easily see how the whole scheme
popped into his head.  There were the two men and two little girls of the same age, isolated
far from civilization for a long winter.  One child dies, the other departs with Gentleman
Geoff.  What more simple than to arrange for a plausible substitution of the children?  Gentleman
Geoff being dead, the only possible obstacle could be in the person of the other member of
that lonely quartette, Frank Hillery, the trapper.  We know now how Wiley traced him and overcame
that difficulty.

"Wiley's efforts culminated in Arizona, but mine only began there.  I traced him back step
by step on the trail he had come, following Hillery, and in Missoula I learned more of Gentleman
Geoff.  Wiley must have learned there what I did, that Gentleman Geoff's last name was known
to be Abercrombie, but Wiley didn't investigate deeply enough.

"I did.  I found that Gentleman Geoff Abercrombie had a most unsavory name there as a crooked
gambler and card-sharp----  No, Miss Murdaugh, please don't protest!"

Willa had turned upon him with flashing eyes.

"He had operated several gambling-casinos for brief, abruptly terminated periods in Idaho and
Montana, keeping about two jumps ahead of a lynching posse most of the time and was last heard
of in New Mexico five years ago, when the Blue Chip was in full blast in Limasito.  In other
words, there were two Gentleman Geoffs!  The second must have been a cheap swindler and card-sharp,
who learned of your foster father's fame as a square gambler throughout the West and sought
to profit by it.  His operations were on such a small, petty scale, however, that it is no
wonder the story of his exploits never reached the ears of the real Gentleman Geoff.  Your
title to your name is assured now, Miss Murdaugh."

"And you have done all this for me!" Willa mused, then turned her level direct gaze upon him.
"Why, Mr. Thode?"

"Because I promised the man who brought you up and cared for you always that I would do what
I could to further the duty he had assumed and so splendidly carried on," Thode responded simply.
"When he lay dying, he told me that, although you yourself did not know it, you were of different
blood and caste from your associates in Limasito.  His own words were that you were born a
lady and must go back to your own."

"Dad said that?"  Willa's lips quivered.  "I learned to-day that he was in love with my mother
always, and she had told him her whole story.  I have found a friend here, too, Mr. Thode,
a poor woman who is frightfully maimed from saving my life in the fire which killed my mother.
I--I have a scar from it which she recognized and so there is another witness to my identity,
but without the valuable proof you have brought me I would still have found it almost impossible
to offset the evidence of that false document.  I cannot thank you for all that you have done
and I still cannot quite understand----"

"It was for Gentleman Geoff," he reminded her courteously but coldly. "I had given him my word
and I meant to keep it to the utmost of my ability.  My task, I think, is almost completed."

Willa drew back, in wretched indecision.  If only it had not been for that hideously betraying
letter which Angie had put in her hands how clear the way would be before her!  If the testimony
offered of his mercenary motives in making love to her had been verbal she would have scorned
it, no matter who swore to its truth, but his intent was made plain in his own writing and
could not be gainsaid.

"You will not let me offer you my thanks," she murmured.  "But I am indeed grateful.  Can we
not at least be friends, Mr. Thode?  I--I regret that bitter, angry letter I sent to you, but
I had learned something which hurt me deeply.  Won't you be magnanimous enough to forget it
and let us go on as if nothing had occurred?"

"I shall be glad to be your friend and serve you in any way that I can, Miss Murdaugh," he
responded dryly.  "I have something further to tell you which I think concerns you closely. Robrecht Yes, you're right. A Count of Flanders must
bow his head in front of any stranger. But I am old and am the father of the captured Philippa
and yours, my brave son! Philip the Fair I will fall at your feet. God commands it! I submit
to His holy will. You will accompany me. But Your head you will not bend. - Always stay here,
that the counts that come after me are without any shame and disgrace to raise their heads! "

Then we discussed the details of travel arrangements and even different political issues. Robrecht
van Bethune had regained his calm, he left the hall and went into the smaller Room in which resided
Machteld. He took the hand of the young girl, it led to an armchair, and then he pulled up without
letting go of her hand, a second chair in he sat down.

"My dear Machteld," he said, "You've got your father dear, is not it?"

"Oh yes, you know perfectly well," exclaimed the girl, and stroked
her soft hands the rough cheeks of the knight.

"But," said now Robrecht, "if someone sat in my defense of his life
at risk, You would not even have the love?

"

"Certainly," was her reply, "and I would remain forever grateful to him for it."

"Now, now has a knight your father defended against an enemy and is
mortally wounded been.

"

wants "Oh God," sighed Machteld, I pray for him forty days and even longer - up he is healthy.
"

"Yes, pray for me, my good child, but I demand something from you"

"Speak only, father! I am your obedient daughter. "

"Do not misunderstand me! I travel for a few days - and your grandfather and all the nobles, You
know the draw, also continued.

Who is now the poor wounded knight to drink To give when it is thirsty? "

"Who will do it? I, Father, for I shall never leave you until your
return.

I will my falcon take with him to his room and always make society. Fear not, I'll leave it
to the servants! My hand is to him the goblet to his lips cause if it is thirsty. And as I will
be happy if he is healthy again! "

"That's right of you, my child.

I know your loving heart, but you must promise me still, that you will make in the first days of his
illness, not a sound in his room.

Also servant must not there be loud. "

"Oh, no, you need not worry, Father.

I am very softly with my falcons To talk so that it can not hear the knight. "

Robrecht took the good Machteld by the hand and led her out of the
room.

    
    
    "I'll show you the sick," he said, "but do not talk loudly in his
    presence."

Adolf van Nieuwland was laid by the young men in a room on a bed apartment in Robrecht been.
Two doctors had joined the wound and stood next to the fox with Dietrich Illness. The patient
was no sign of life, his face was pale, his eyes closed. -

"Now, Master Rogaert," Robrecht turned to one of the doctors, "as
it is our unfortunate Friends?

"

"Bad," replied Rogaert, "very bad, Mr. van Bethune.

I can not say, whether one can hope, but I do not think he will have to die. "

"Is not the fatal wound?"

Oh, yes, lethal or non-lethal, nature is the best doctor, she does
sometimes wonder more as herbs or stones [13].

I gave him a thorn from the crown of our Savior, the Chest down,
- this sacred relic will help us.

"

[13] In earlier times people often used stones for healing Diseases,
we wrote to them supernatural power.

The Stein, who had been found in the nest of an eagle, was as best remedy considered.

During the interview, Machteld had come closer to the patient.

Curiosity drove they recognize the face of the sick knight. Suddenly she saw Adolf Nieuwland. With
a cry she drew back a flood of tears fell from her eyes, she screamed loudly.

"What do you mean, my daughter?" Said Robrecht. "Can you even you do not, you must You behave
calmly and quietly at the bedside of a sick person.

"

"Be calm," sobbed the girl. his "Quiet, where Mr. Adolf was dying,
he, me such beautiful songs taught!

Who will now be a minstrel of Wijnendaal? Who is now the Dressing my hawks and help my brother
be? "-

Then she went to the bed, looked at the wounded knight, and cried, weeping, sobbing:

"Adolf, Mr. Adolf, my good brother!"

When she got no answer, she put her hands to her face and sank weeping into a chair. Robrecht thought
his daughter would not stop lawsuits, and their presence would therefore more harmful than useful,
he grabbed the young Machteld at hand:

"Come, my child," he said, "Come out of the room until you have taken you."

But Machteld wanted to leave the room not, she replied:

"Oh, my Father, let me here, I will not cry any more. Let me by my brother Adolf, I want to
read prayers, which he has taught me to send for him to God! "

She took a pillow from a chair, placed it on the ground at the head of the bed and prayed there quietly.
But her words were broken by deep sighs, and hot tears ran down her cheeks.

Robrecht van Bethune woke up late at night, to Adolf camp, hoping that hearing and would return
language. But in vain. Only weak and slow breathing of the wounded
and lay there motionless.

Champion Rogaert now feared for his life but seriously, for the temples
of the patient burning hot fever. -

Meanwhile, attracted the noble
gentlemen who did not live in the castle, with great satisfaction
Wijnendaal.

The loyal knights were glad that they could prove pleasing their master. The others who lived
in the count's home searched in their bedrooms.

Two hours later we heard in Wijnendaal only the cries of the guards, the striking of the Dogs
and the shrill cries of the owl.

IV

    The trip, which took on the advice of the Lord Gwijde Count of Valois
was, for him and his Flanders country are very dangerous, because
France had serious circumstances, the rich To have land as long as
possible.

Philip the Handsome and his wife Joan of Navarre had their reckless
waste of all the gold of the empire can flow into their treasure chests,
and still had the immense Sums, which had granted the people, not
enough to satisfy their insatiable greed.

Philip had now resorted to the last resort and falsified the coin of the kingdom, invited thus
impossible loads on their land, and yet he was still not satisfied.

His greedy ministers and particularly Enguerrand de Marigny led him, despite the dissatisfaction
of the people, under the threat every day of the outbreak of the revolution, to demand new taxes.

It
is incomprehensible that Philip the Handsome, yet always suffered
from a great lack of money.

In Bruges alone was more money than in France. He knew for years and had everything called
in to subdue Flanders.

At first he demanded the impossible from the old Count Gwijde in order to force him to disobey;
then he caught his daughter and finally conquered Flanders by force of arms. -

All of the old count had well thought out and conceal the potential consequences of Travel far,
but the pain that his imprisonment of his youngest daughter, prepared forced him to try again this
last means to liberation.

The safe conduct, the Charles of Valois had assured him, fortified him in his decision.

So he set out with his sons William Robrecht and Flemish nobles and fifty to way. Charles of
Valois accompanied him with a large number of French knights.

When the count arrived with his nobles in Compiègne, he was at the instance of the Lord excellent
houses of Valois, and he now awaited the command of the king, who
at the Court should call.

The noble Frenchman used so forcefully by his royal brother, that This gracious Gwijde summoned
only to himself.

The old count went full of hope in the royal palace. Here he was taken in a large ceremonial
hall. In the background stood the royal throne. Blue, with golden lilies embroidered woven velvet
fell to both sides on to the ground. The steps were a gold-and silver-embroidered
carpeted.

Philip the Fair walked with his son Ludwig Hutin [14] up and down. They were followed by many French nobles,
one of which is occasionally mingled in the conversation of the king.

This was M. de Nogaret, it points to the command of Philip had dared to take the Pope Boniface caught
and abuse.

[14] = Hutin brawler.

As we reported Gwijde, the king was walking beside the throne. His son Louis was at his side; the
other men stood in two rows along the wall. Slowly came the old count of Flanders closer and
knelt down before the king -

"Vassal," he said, "this humble position is fitting for you after all the anger, the You have
prepared us. You deserve to die and be condemned. Still popular is our royal mercy, give ear to
you. Rise up and speak! "

The old count got up and said, "My lord and master, in reliance on
your royal justice, I am pleased your Majesty's feet, and trust my
fate Your generosity to.

"

"You throw you in quite late," replied the king. "You have to Edward of England against We concluded
an alliance. You have brought you as disloyal vassal against your master and you have been arrogant
enough to tell him the war. Your country were you by Euern disobedience forfeited. "

"My lord," said Gwijde, "let me find favor in you. May Your Majesty to consider how painful and
sorrowful it must be for a father when he rescues his child. Have I asked not in deep sorrow?
Have I not prayed in order to get back? O King, if you your son, my future Mr. Ludwig, who is so
handsome next to you, if you this torn from him and imprisoned in
a foreign land, would not your majesty to any act of violence to be
ready to seek revenge for the blood that you have sprung, and free?

Oh yes, your father's heart understands me, I will find favor in you! "

Philip the Fair looked at his son tenderly, and in that moment he considered Gwijdes pain and intimately
felt pity for the unfortunate earl.

"Sire," cried Ludwig in deep emotion, "are o him for my sake have mercy! Have pity on with him
and his child, I pray you heartily for it!

"

The king sat up, his features were severe.

"Let yourself be carried away by the words of a disobedient vassals
not so easy, my son!" he said.

"But I do not want to be hard when you can prove to me that he only Father love and not driven
by spite of his action was. "

"Sir," said Gwijde, "it is your Majesty know that I need to get my
child back, 've tried everything that was in my power.

But in vain. My prayers, my entreaties were free. Everything, including the efforts of the Pope, remained
fruitless ... What to do there?

Since I had dared to hope, that armed force would bring relief to my daughter. But fate was
not quite favorable. Ew. Majesty won the victory. "

"But," broke his word to the king, "what we can do for you? You have our vassals a perishable
example given. If we are merciful to you now, they are all against
us Get up and you will again ensure you connect with our enemies!
"

"Oh, my lord," answered Gwijde, "popular only reflect the unfortunate
Philippa her father, and I will be eternally grateful! "

"And Flanders
is to raise the required sums, and will you give us the money, in
order to cover the costs that caused your disobedience? "

"This proof
of your Majesty's grace I will never be too expensive! I am respectfully
your orders . Make But my child, my king, my child! "

"Your child,"
repeated the king hesitated.

Now he was thinking of Joan of Navarre,
not the daughter of the Count of Flanders willingly would share. He
was allowed to follow his good heart, not, for he feared the very
Wrath of the defiant Joan. Therefore, he would give no specific promises,
saying:

"Well, the intercession of my beloved brother has done a
lot for you. Be of good hope because your sad fate touches me. You
were guilty, but your punishment is heavy. I will try to facilitate
them. Still popular today we do not receive you in worship: first
thorough investigation must take place. Then we require your submission
in Presence of all vassals, so they take care of you a role model.
Leave us now, so we can advise what can be done for an unfaithful
vassal. "

On this command left the Count of Flanders the hall. He
was not out of the palace gone, as is already widespread among the
French gentlemen, the rumor that he is the wanted to play King Country
and daughter. Many congratulated him heartily, others again who built
on the conquest of Flanders, their ambitions were deeply angry. But
she did not notice it as they do against the royal will, but nothing
could. -

Joy and confidence now filled the heart of the Flemish knight,
they flattered themselves with sweet hope and looking forward to the
liberation of their country. They believed that nothing could prevent
the successful outcome of the company since the king for the good
reception M. de Valois had assured that he would meet Gwijde generous.
-

Graf Gwijde already met the necessary preparations for his return
at the royal commands to indemnify and comply with his subjects by
a long peace for the last war. Even Robrecht van Bethune did not doubt
the promised mercy, for since his father was at the court, were the
French gentlemen very kind and respectful the Vlaemen. This shows,
in their opinion of the king benevolence: they knew that the intentions
and thoughts of the prince always on the faces of the courtiers to
know ' are read. -

M. de Châtillon Count had visited a few times
and congratulated. But his Heart was hiding a diabolical secret, and
he smiled to hide it. His niece, Johanna of Navarre, had promised
him Flanders as a fief. All his plans had domineering the acquisition
of that rich county targeted, and now that prospect disappeared as
a dream.

Châtillon, who was seized by political ambition forged a
treacherous plan and he palliated his conscience with the name of
duty. -

On the same day when he arrived from Flanders in the royal
court, he called one of his most faithful servant to him and sent
him on his best horses to Paris.

A letter he taking home the messenger
had to inform the Queen and Enguerrand de Marigny of everything and
call them to Compiègne.

His treacherous plan succeeded perfectly.
As Johanna read the letter, she was shaking with anger. She, who had
sworn eternal hatred Vlaemen should, can now evade prey. And only
Enguerrand de Marigny, where the money to extort by force from Flanders,
had already gambled and spent! Both were way too much destruction
in Flanders, as that they had agreed to his release can be.

"I had no detailed plan, but I meant to keep Tia Juana and the fact that I possessed the Lost
Souls' Pool under cover until I had come into my full inheritance, when I would return and
fight the man to the finish.  Mr. North never knew that Tia Juana and José accompanied us to
New York, although he did complain of my frequent disappearances en route, I remember."

Mason North sputtered.

"So do I!  But why did you not tell me all, my dear?  I might have helped you----"

"And taken the whole thing out of my hands?"  Willa shook her head, still smiling.  "The man
was my meat, Mr. North!  Vengeance may be the Lord's, but it was sweet to me, too, and I meant
to taste it to the last morsel!

"The man was one of those who were still searching for the Lost Souls' Pool.  After our departure
he possessed himself by violence of the map which Tia Juana had only partly destroyed, located
the Pool, learned of its new owner and started out to find her.  He knew that I was her one
friend, and suspected that I was back of the purchase.  Before following me to New York, therefore,
he made a journey West, of which I'll tell you more later, or rather Mr. Thode will.

"When he did finally appear in New York, he tried by every means in his power to force me to
a confession of my knowledge of Tia Juana's whereabouts; he spied upon me and I removed her
to new quarters just in time.  He flattered and cajoled me, and, when that failed, resorted
to vague threats.

"Then Tia Juana disappeared.  She vanished from the home I had found for her, leaving no trace,
and I feared that the man had abducted her, to coerce her into making the Pool over to him,
until I met him outside the house from which she had gone.  He accused me of having spirited
her away to keep her out of his reach and demanded that I produce her in three days, or he
would strip me of my position and name and inheritance, seeing me driven forth as an impostor!
That man is Starr Wiley, and you know how he carried out his threat!"

Wiley made a sudden convulsive leap for the window, but paused transfixed at her significant
gesture.  The government officials had closed in about him, but he saw only the girl before
the bar and the pointed bulge in her cloak, beneath her hidden hand.

"Better not try it, Starr Wiley, although I almost wish you would!" Her voice rang out in the
suddenly stayed tumult.  "I've had you covered from the first, and I'll drop you with a shot
through my pocket if you make another move!  The rest of you know only what he has done to
me, but you shall hear how he has served you, too!

"I left the Halstead house, and then by a miracle Tia Juana was restored to me.  After her
disappearance little José remembered her interest in a conversation between her landlady and
a friend concerning some Spanish gypsies who had settled in squatters' cabins north of the
city, and conceiving the idea that she had joined them, he slipped away to find her.  He succeeded,
although how she ever reached her destination we cannot know, for she was bewildered and lost
her mind, temporarily enfeebled.  José, as a vender of tomales, established himself near the
garage where I kept my car, hoping to attract the attention of my chauffeur, Dan Morrissey
here, who had helped me all through that trying time and whom José knew he could trust.

"Once he was frightened away, but the second time he succeeded and Dan brought him to me. 
I took Tia Juana away to another city, but she was ill for a long time.  When I could leave
her, I placed her and José in the care of Dan's sister whom I summoned from New York, and went
West myself to disprove Starr Wiley's story if I could.

"I found a witness who can swear to my identity as the daughter of Ralph and Violet Murdaugh
and prove it by a scar I bear from the fire which cost my mother her life, but Mr. Thode, unknown
to me, had gone West also in my interest and his efforts were even more successful than mine.--Will
you show them, please, what you obtained in Arizona?"

She turned to Kearn Thode, who drew forth a folded paper which he handed to Mason North.

"It is a confession, signed and witnessed, from the forger Starr Wiley employed to manufacture
that false article of adoption," he announced. "The child who died in the trapper's cabin was
his own daughter and it was Willa Murdaugh who went on with Gentleman Geoff.  I did not know
until this morning the whole story of the Lost Souls' Pool transaction, but I suspected it.
Starr Wiley had a strong motive for getting Miss Murdaugh out of the way if she did not prove
amenable to his schemes, and he provided himself with a strong weapon, but he overlooked one
salient point. The display of the The
extra tax money and fees for postal inspectors and Postillons is usually the post houses posted
in public, will do well in the want of the traveler to therefore ask the postmasters.
  I believe Mr. Thode tried to warn
Mr. North through his son not to go into it, but unfortunately for him, Mr. North would not
heed, and he and Mr. Halstead invested heavily. Despite the anger Breydel and his people had about six hundred French in such a
ganged. Many, though were wounded, escaped the carnage and went from the other streets Snaggaartsbrücke.
So the number of fugitives Finally, at about a thousand men who wanted to sell their lives as dearly
as possible. In close groups they stood before the houses and were defending themselves desperately
against the Fleischer. Many had crossbows and shot down many a Klauwaert. But the increased
only the fury of the others, who saw their comrades fall. You could hear Châtillon voice, His own
cheering for resistance, and was also in sight of the Lord Montenay, the giant sword shone in
the darkness like a lightning bolt.

Breydel raced like a madman and cut the right and left on the French. He was already a few feet
above the ground, as much enemies he had thrown down before him. Flows of Blood flowed in
the bodies, and the cry of "Lion of Flanders! Beat all dead! "Mixed to watch with the groans
of the dying.

Among the French there was also Mr. van Gistel. Because he knew that his death inevitable was when the
Vlaemen kept the victory, he cried constantly, "High France! High
France! "

He hoped thereby to fire the mercenaries. But Jan Breydel recognized his voice.

"People," he exclaimed in a rage, "I must have the soul of this apostate! Forward! The has lasted
long enough, who loves me, follow me! "

With these words he threw himself with his ax in the midst of the French, and cut everything to
of him down immediately.

When his companions saw that, they threw themselves with such rage
the enemy, that they pushed him against a wall and killed five hundred
people.

In this decisive moment in this awful hour of death, the words and
thought Montenay De Coninck of the vow, and he hoped to save the Governor
can, and called:

"I Montenay, you give me the way," I

The Klauwaerts
left him with reverence and not inhibited him.

"Here, here! Follow me, comrades, "he shouted to the remaining handful of Frenchmen, for you
should he thought to save them that way. But the Vlaemen cut down so terrible to her, the number
of the refugees melted together so that with Châtillon no more than thirty people in the could reach
the house of the Lord of Mortenay, the rest were all in their blood on the floor. Breydel turned
to his men before the door of the Podestà and forbade them to enter
the house.

He encircled the house, so no one should escape, and kept himself at the entrance Guard.

During this battle, De Coninck was in the Stone Street in the St. Salvator Church or busy to track
down the last Frenchman. So did the other guilds assigned to them in the street settings. They threw
the corpses of those killed from the houses, until the roads were completely covered with
them and they penetrate into the darkness only with difficulty, more could. Many soldiers of
the occupation had disguised himself and believed in such a way by which a or to escape other goal.
But they succeeded not because we ordered them to pronounce words>
Shield en Vriend '.

Hardly heard only the sound of her voice, as they sat already the hatchet in the neck, and they
fell to the ground groaning.

This carnage lasted until the sun rose over the horizon already. Five thousand residents this
night the spirits of the murdered Vlaemen were sacrificed. This is a bloody sheet in the chronicles
of Flanders and the terrible number is recorded accurately in it.

Prior to the apartment of M. de Montenay there was a strangely awful sight. Thousand Fleischer
camped on the floor, revenge, the hatchets in hand, eyes full of
menace and directed at the door. Her bare arms, their waistcoats were
red with blood, and between them There were many dead bodies. But
they seemed not to be respected. Some of the other fellows Guilds
walked here and there about the lying on the ground and tried to butcher
the bodies of Vlaemen slain to bury them.  Love's a pretty-fierce thing sometimes, ain't it?"

Love!  Willa buried her face in the pillow and a little creeping warmth stole through her veins.
It was good to be alive, after all.

But he was still ignorant of the truth about that letter!  At the thought Willa's heart contracted
and the quick, scalding tears of weakness came to her eyes.  He still believed that she had
wantonly led him on and trampled him beneath her feet in sheer joy of conquest.  Oh, she must
become strong enough to tell him how sorry she was, to make amends!

Now as she lay back in her chair, awaiting his coming in the cool of the soft spring evening,
the events of the past few months seemed very far away and unreal, almost as though they might
have been a dream born of her fever.  She could scarcely believe that she had ever left Limasito;
the climacteric weeks in New York, the trip to Topaz Gulch and the later scene in Jim Baggott's
hotel had alike faded into a vague, nebulous shadow without substance or coherence, and she
herself seemed drifting. . . .

Again it was Sallie who brought her back to earth with a matter-of-fact remark.

"I don't s'pose you know, or care either, that the Lost Souls is producin' thousands of barrels
a day since they struck that gusher. You'll never miss the stock now that you gave to Mr. North
and them Halsteads to make up for what they lost on their own hook in the fake company, though
I did think you were a little fool at the time, Billie. Served 'em good and right after the
way they treated you."

Willa shook her head wearily.

"They were pretty decent, Sallie, and both Ripley Halstead and Mr. North were always kind.
I couldn't have let them suffer for a mistake.--How is Tia Juana?  You must let me see her
the next time she comes."

Sallie chuckled.

"She's buildin' a chapel to the lost souls who was drowned in that pool, and she's bought a
big, bright-yeller automobile!  José's learning from Dan how to drive it for her, when Dan
gets time enough off from his work with Mr. Thode.  Since you gave him that stock in the new
Murdaugh-Reyes Company you can't hardly pry Dan Morrissey loose from the oil business to eat.--Say,
honey!"  Her tone dropped persuasively.  "There's something that's not quite clear in my mind
yet.  I've been bursting to ask you, but you were too sick.  Where does young Mr. Thode come
in on this and how did you find out that old Rosa Mendez was the one who signed Tia Juana's
name to that false deed?"

"I didn't.  It was Mr. Thode who found that out for me," Willa explained.  "You see, when I
met him out in Topaz Gulch I told him I was coming down here and he said he'd be here, too;
his presence would have been necessary, anyway, to prove that I was really Willa Murdaugh.
Dan's sister was taking care of Tia Juana and José for me in Philadelphia, where those who
were fighting me wouldn't think of searching. With a twinkle in a mocking
He slipped from view and the grim face of the Barons. He watched as the between Gritted teeth
foul and had to restrain himself so as not to spit on him, noticed with diabolical joy at the same
time the rising wrath of his mother, and that both only longed for an excuse to pounce on him,
push away or make it harmless. But he offered no opportunity, his hatred was calculated in long
hours and made no Pelts. "Let's go back," suddenly said the mother. She felt that she no longer
at could be said that they would do something to cry at least under this torture. "How pity,
"said Edgar calmly," it's so beautiful. "

Both realized that the child she scoffed. But they dared not to say, had this tyrant in two days
of wonderful learned to control himself. No twitching of the face betrayed the cutting irony.
Without a word they walked the long way home again. In her excitement flickered even after, as they
both were alone in the room. She threw her umbrella and her gloves angrily away. Edgar noticed immediately
that her nerves were excited and asked for discharge, but he wanted a break and stayed in the room
on purpose to irritate her. She went on and down, sat down again, her fingers drumming on the
table, then she jumped back on. "Disheveled How are you, how dirty you are going around! It
is a disgrace to the people. you not be ashamed at your age? "Without a word of reply, the child
went and combed themselves. This silence, this obstinate cold silence with the trembling of derision
on his lips made them mad. Most of all she had beaten him. "Go to your room, she screamed at him
at. She could no longer bear his presence. Edgar smiled and left.

As they now both trembled before him, as they were afraid of the Baron and, above all hours of togetherness,
the relentlessly hard grip of his eyes! The more uncomfortable they felt, in the more shattering
complacency is illumined his eyes, has been challenging to its Joy. Edgar tormented the defenseless
now with the whole, almost animal cruelty Children. The Baron was able to insulate his anger,
because he always hoped that the boy another play String to, and thought only of his goal. But
she, the mother lost, always again the control. For them it was a relief to be able to yell
at him. »Play not "with the fork, they drove him at the table. "You're an uneducated brat, earn
not even adults to sit under. "Edgar smiled just always smiling, his head little wrong set
aside.


"I knew they'd return that morning, and I arranged the affair with Jim Baggott and the officials.
It was a terrible business, Sallie, and I wanted to get it all over with at once."

"Well, you did it!" Sallie chuckled.  "You took the wind out o' the sails o' them relatives
o' your'n, too.  They've been milling around these parts like nothin' was good enough for 'em,
and it give 'em a pain to hear your name mentioned, but it was different after you showed up
with your powder-blast, I can fell you!  When they found you was goin' to let byegones be byegones,
and give 'em a chance to get back the money they'd lost, it would have done you good to see
the way they came around here, trying to do something for their dear young relation!" We conclude to
them from his actions and his behavior, which we motifs from his instinctual life back. Such a
conclusion is necessarily wrong in a number of cases. The same, culturally "good" actions can
einemal descended from the "noble" motives, not anderemal. The theoretical ethicists mean
only those acts "good, which of the Expression of good impulses, are the other they fail to be
accepted. The practical Directed intentions but on the whole society cares not about this distinction;
she is content with the fact that a man his conduct and his actions concerning the cultural
Judge rules, and asks little about his motives.

We have heard that the external force, the education and practice environment to humans, a further
transformation of his instinctual life for the better, a change from selfishness to altruism causes.
But this is not the necessary or regular action of the external constraint. Education and
surrounding areas have to offer not only love premiums, but also work with Advantage premiums different
kind, with wages and penalties. So you can express the effect that the influence of their Unsuccessful,
for good governance in the cultural sense decides, without a drive finishing, a reaction in social selfish
inclinations, has taken place in him. The success is in coarse be the same, only under special
circumstances it will be seen that one is always good because it's necessary to drive tendencies,
the other is only good because, insolange and so far it's selfish intentions, cultural behavior
has advantages. But we will have a casual acquaintance with the individual, not a means to to distinguish
two cases, and are certainly misled by our optimism, the number the culturally modified human
overestimate bad.

The Cultural Society, which calls for good action and is the driving reasons for it do not care,
so a large number of people have won the cultural obedience, while not their nature to follow.
Encouraged by this success, she has lured into the character required to stretch as high as
possible and so its participants even further Forced removal from their instinctive behavior.
This is now a continuing drive suppression imposed on the voltage in the most remarkable response and
compensation phenomena manifests. In the realm of sexuality, which carry out such suppression
at least , it comes as response to the symptoms of neurotic disorders. The other Pressure of
the culture while yielding no pathological consequences, but expresses itself in Charakterverbildungen
and in the constant readiness of the inhibited impulses, when the opportunity satisfaction break through.


"But it was!"  Willa laughed, but there was a little running sob through her words.  "You told
me the truth about it yourself, out in Topaz Gulch."

"I?"  Thode turned to her, amazed.

"Yes.  Don't you remember the letter you wrote to Mr. Larkin, telling him you had found Tia
Juana, but nobody knew who she really was--her last name, I mean--and it wouldn't matter if
they did?  A page of that very letter with the top torn off was put in my hands and as you
didn't mention Tia Juana by name I thought it referred to me.  That was the inference I was
supposed to gather from it, and like a credulous little fool I believed!  The bottom of the
page ended with: 'She is the undoubted owner of almost boundless wealth and when I have gone
after her, and won her consent----'"

"Good heavens, of course!"  Thode jumped to his feet.  "I remember it all now.  That was one
of the letters that was stolen from Larkin's desk by a clerk we found to be in the secret employ
of Chase and Wiley! They'd corrupted him in an effort to keep tabs on the progress we were
making down here.  We didn't prosecute him because of the notoriety, but we made him leave
the East when we discovered his operations.  It never occurred to me that any of the stolen
letters could be put to such a use!"

"Or that I could be so ready to believe the worst of you?" she asked sadly.

"You!  My poor little Willa!"  He dropped on his knees beside her chair and gathered her hands
again in his.  "I thought you were heartless, intoxicated with admiration and trying your power
wilfully on everyone who came within your reach.  Half the men in your set were at your feet,
and it drove me a little mad, I think!  And all the time you were beset by enemies, making
your brave fight alone, and even our friendship turned to something low and base!  Oh, my dear,
I have nothing to forgive, but there is much that I must teach you to forget."

"Unworthy things are soon forgotten!"  She gazed with shining eyes into his.  "Only the real,
true, beautiful things remain, Kearn, and they--why, they are all before us!"

He looked away, straight ahead of him into the moon-lit darkness.

"When I come back," he said.  "Much has happened while you lay ill, dear.  We've gone into
the big fight at last, we're going to help set the world free from barbarism, and I must do
my share. As his mother now and the
Baron came in the door, a little embarrassed to see him so suddenly, and already wanted to
stammer the prepared excuse, he went to meet them upright and calm, and said challenging: "Baron,
I want to tell you something."

The Baron was it uncomfortable. He felt somehow caught. "Yes, yes, later the same!"

But Edgar threw up his voice and said, bright and sharp that all around
could hear, "But I will now talk to you.

You have behaved basely. You got me lied. They knew that my mom is
waiting for me, and are ... "

"Edgar," cried the mother, who saw all eyes fixed upon him, and rushed towards him.

But the child screamed, now that she saw that she wanted to shout
his words, suddenly shrill on:

"I'll tell you once again in front
of everyone.

They have lied vicious, and this is common, that's pathetic. "

The Baron was pale, staring at people, some smiling.

The mother grabbed the child, trembling with emotion: "Come to your
room immediately, or I'll beat up "in front of everyone here, she
stammered hoarsely.

Edgar was again quiet. He was sorry to have been so passionate. He was dissatisfied with himself,
because he really wanted to challenge the Baron cool But the anger
was wilder than his will. Quietly, without haste, he turned to the
stairs.

"Excuse me, Baron, his naughtiness. You know he is a nervous
child, " she stammered, still a little confused by the malicious eyes
of the people around them staring. Nothing in the world was their
terrible as a scandal, and she knew that she now Attitude had to keep. My sister will put you to rolling
bandages as soon as you can lift your hands. Another Piece
of this engine conversion must be done in life itself. is in this kind of A human being not
only under the influence of its current cultural milieu, but also subject to the influence
of the cultural history of his ancestors.  As if this supreme struggle were to bring out all our hidden strength, the deepest, most-enduring,
best part of us!--And isn't it strange, too, that I should be going to make my home with your
sister, after all? Ye may believe me, he would be in reality been a wolf,
the eyes would not be able to bloody sparkle. "

Then I asked: "Is the gentleman in the house, Dietrich?"

- "? In
the house I think so, but what you sinnet, Mr. John?"

"There is every indication that I'll be over myself before then, nursing or something.  I'm
not the kind to sit at home when there's work to be done.  But, Kearn----?"

"What, Billie?" This
fact she had left to utter master of a time advantage to which they use of love and pleasure
so well knew. None of Danae's former admirers had made bold to disturb her solitude, and the friends
with whom she Formerly had been standing in society had to good luck all with their own affairs
so much to do, that they kept no time to worry about strangers. In addition, it was Stay in
the country nothing unusual, and the general genius of the city Smirna was the allzuguenstig
freedom in the choice of pleasure than that Danae (from the enjoins you anyway no vestal virtue)
over theirs, though they have been known would be to get very harsh sentences would have been.
  I love Willa
Murdaugh, but I have always loved Gentleman Geoff's Billie since the day I met her coming from
the Blue Chip, and I think that I love her best, after all!  Gentleman Geoff's Billie, my Billie,
will you be my wife, soon, soon?"

There was a pause, while a little breeze stirred the starry, perfume-laden branches about them,
shimmering mistily in the moon's haze. I'm
going because I have now seen how little you respect me, with Philippa in my Navarre retire!
"

These last words struck the king hard. Navarre was the most valuable
part of France, and he would not have liked it lacks.