Or, look at the matter numerically.  Jesus, who avowedly confined his missionary efforts to
his own race, "for to them only am I sent," is made by the writer of Matthew's Gospel to give
a world-wide commission to his disciples on the very eve of his mysterious disappearance from
earth: "Go ye and teach all nations," he is reported to have enjoined upon them.  Peter, doubtless,
was present upon this occasion, or, at any rate, we cannot conceive him ignorant of the commission;
and yet we find him refusing point-blank to admit Cornelius the centurion--the first candidate
who offered himself--into the Church, and, according to the Acts, a sheet full of animals had
to be let through the roof of his house before he could be turned from his purpose of confining
the new religion exclusively to Jews.  The explanation, of course, of such universality as
Christianity has attained is mainly due to the influence of the cosmopolitan Saul of Tarsus,
though the idea of an Oecumenical Society was by no means his original thought.  The Stoics
were full of the ideal, and the Cynics before them, while Socrates refused to describe himself
as a citizen of Athens, but claimed the whole world as his fatherland, and the outer barbarians,
as the exclusive Greeks styled them, he called his brethren.

And, now, how many of the human family are enrolled as "citizens of the holy places"; what
numbers assemble for worship in the great cathedral? Statistics are unnecessary, but we cannot
but remember the temples to God raised in other ages and other lands, which endure to this
hour, imperishable witnesses to a truth which is "the light of life".  What that truth is,
we shall see later.  But when we remember the great pre-Christian systems of the East and of
Egypt, and the very stones dug out of the earth cry aloud in witness to the eternal truths,
God, Soul, Hereafter; when we realise the devotion of martyred Israel to the faith of their
fathers, and the great Mohammedan revolt against the dogmatical puerilities of the sixth century;
when, I say, we remember that one and all endure to this hour, and in unimpaired vigour, and
still more, when that absorbingly interesting study known as the science of Comparative Religion
has shown us that of orthodoxy is true what is true of all religious systems--that it enjoys
a monopoly of nothing save of errors peculiar to itself, and that of its doctrines, all that
is true is not new, and all that is new is not true--we are in a fairer position to estimate
its precise place and influence in the world and the sources from which it has drawn its inspiration.

Even of the comparatively few in the vast family of humanity who own its supremacy, how many
can repeat its shibboleths in common?  And if disunion, the true mark of error, be at work
among them, can we believe that the future is reserved for it?  It is unquestionable that the
cultivated intellect of the Continent is profoundly estranged from the version prevalent there,
while it is only the spirit of compromise, so characteristic of the race, carried into the
domain of dogmatism which prevents a similar insurrection in England.  If the sacerdotal lion
can lie down side by side with the Broad Church lambs, it is only because the wicked world,
symbolised for the moment by the strong arm of the law and the public sense of decency, curbs
the ferocity of heresy hunters and bids them look to their manners lest some worse thing befall
them.  It is felt instinctively that the popular phylacteries, the peculiar trappings in which
Divine truth has been set forth in England, are not worth discussion among serious men.

