The King of the Zulus, a fine fellow of 30, was banished six years ago for a term of seven
years.  He is occupying Napoleon's old stand--St. Helena.  The people are a little nervous
about having him come back, and they may well be, for Zulu kings have been terrible people
sometimes --like Tchaka, Dingaan, and Cetewayo.

There is a large Trappist monastery two hours from Durban, over the country roads, and in company
with Mr. Milligan and Mr. Hunter, general manager of the Natal government railways, who knew
the heads of it, we went out to see it.

There it all was, just as one reads about it in books and cannot believe that it is so--I mean
the rough, hard work, the impossible hours, the scanty food, the coarse raiment, the Maryborough
beds, the tabu of human speech, of social intercourse, of relaxation, of amusement, of entertainment,
of the presence of woman in the men's establishment. There it all was.  It was not a dream,
it was not a lie.  And yet with the fact before one's face it was still incredible.  It is
such a sweeping suppression of human instincts, such an extinction of the man as an individual.

La Trappe must have known the human race well.  The scheme which he invented hunts out everything
that a man wants and values--and withholds it from him.  Apparently there is no detail that
can help make life worth living that has not been carefully ascertained and placed out of the
Trappist's reach.  La Trappe must have known that there were men who would enjoy this kind
of misery, but how did he find it out?

If he had consulted you or me he would have been told that his scheme lacked too many attractions;
that it was impossible; that it could never be floated.  But there in the monastery was proof
that he knew the human race better than it knew itself.  He set his foot upon every desire
that a man has--yet he floated his project, and it has prospered for two hundred years, and
will go on prospering forever, no doubt.

Man likes personal distinction--there in the monastery it is obliterated. He likes delicious
food--there he gets beans and bread and tea, and not enough of it.  He likes to lie softly--there
he lies on a sand mattress, and has a pillow and a blanket, but no sheet.  When he is dining,
in a great company of friends, he likes to laugh and chat--there a monk reads a holy book aloud
during meals, and nobody speaks or laughs.  When a man has a hundred friends about him, evenings,
be likes to have a good time and run late--there he and the rest go silently to bed at 8; and
in the dark, too; there is but a loose brown robe to discard, there are no night-clothes to
put on, a light is not needed.  Man likes to lie abed late there he gets up once or twice in
the night to perform some religious office, and gets up finally for the day at two in the morning.
Man likes light work or none at all--there he labors all day in the field, or in the blacksmith
shop or the other shops devoted to the mechanical trades, such as shoemaking, saddlery, carpentry,
and so on. Man likes the society of girls and women--there he never has it.  He likes to have
his children about him, and pet them and play with them --there he has none.  He likes billiards--there
is no table there.  He likes outdoor sports and indoor dramatic and musical and social entertainments--there
are none there.  He likes to bet on things--I was told that betting is forbidden there.  When
a man's temper is up he likes to pour it out upon somebody there this is not allowed.  A man
likes animals--pets; there are none there.  He likes to smoke--there he cannot do it.  He likes
to read the news--no papers or magazines come there.  A man likes to know how his parents and
brothers and sisters are getting along when he is away, and if they miss him--there he cannot
know.  A man likes a pretty house, and pretty furniture, and pretty things, and pretty colors--there
he has nothing but naked aridity and sombre colors.  A man likes--name it yourself: whatever
it is, it is absent from that place.

From what I could learn, all that a man gets for this is merely the saving of his soul.

It all seems strange, incredible, impossible.  But La Trappe knew the race.  He knew the powerful
attraction of unattractiveness; he knew that no life could be imagined, howsoever comfortless
and forbidding, but somebody would want to try it.

This parent establishment of Germans began its work fifteen years ago, strangers, poor, and
unencouraged; it owns 15,000 acres of land now, and raises grain and fruit, and makes wines,
and manufactures all manner of things, and has native apprentices in its shops, and sends them
forth able to read and write, and also well equipped to earn their living by their trades.
And this young establishment has set up eleven branches in South Africa, and in them they are
christianizing and educating and teaching wage-yielding mechanical trades to 1,200 boys and
girls. Protestant Missionary work is coldly regarded by the commercial white colonist all over
the heathen world, as a rule, and its product is nicknamed "rice-Christians" (occupationless
incapables who join the church for revenue only), but I think it would be difficult to pick
a flaw in the work of these Catholic monks, and I believe that the disposition to attempt it
has not shown itself.

Tuesday, May 12.  Transvaal politics in a confused condition.  First the sentencing of the
Johannesburg Reformers startled England by its severity; on the top of this came Kruger's exposure
of the cipher correspondence, which showed that the invasion of the Transvaal, with the design
of seizing that country and adding it to the British Empire, was planned by Cecil Rhodes and
Beit--which made a revulsion in English feeling, and brought out a storm against Rhodes and
the Chartered Company for degrading British honor.  For a good while I couldn't seem to get
at a clear comprehension of it, it was so tangled.  But at last by patient study I have managed
it, I believe.  As I understand it, the Uitlanders and other Dutchmen were dissatisfied because
the English would not allow them to take any part in the government except to pay taxes.  Next,
as I understand it, Dr. Kruger and Dr. Jameson, not having been able to make the medical business
pay, made a raid into Matabeleland with the intention of capturing the capital, Johannesburg,
and holding the women and children to ransom until the Uitlanders and the other Boers should
grant to them and the Chartered Company the political rights which had been withheld from them.
They would have succeeded in this great scheme, as I understand it, but for the interference
of Cecil Rhodes and Mr. Beit, and other Chiefs of the Matabele, who persuaded their countrymen
to revolt and throw off their allegiance to Germany.  This, in turn, as I understand it, provoked
the King of Abyssinia to destroy the Italian army and fall back upon Johannesburg; this at
the instigation of Rhodes, to bull the stock market.

CHAPTER LXVI.

Every one is a moon, and has a dark side which he never shows to anybody.
                                  --Pudd'nhead Wilson's New Calendar.

When I scribbled in my note-book a year ago the paragraph which ends the preceding chapter,
it was meant to indicate, in an extravagant form, two things: the conflicting nature of the
information conveyed by the citizen to the stranger concerning South African politics, and
the resulting confusion created in the stranger's mind thereby.

But it does not seem so very extravagant now.  Nothing could in that disturbed and excited
time make South African politics clear or quite rational to the citizen of the country because
his personal interest and his political prejudices were in his way; and nothing could make
those politics clear or rational to the stranger, the sources of his information being such
as they were.

I was in South Africa some little time.  When I arrived there the political pot was boiling
fiercely.  Four months previously, Jameson had plunged over the Transvaal border with about
600 armed horsemen at his back, to go to the "relief of the women and children" of Johannesburg;
on the fourth day of his march the Boers had defeated him in battle, and carried him and his
men to Pretoria, the capital, as prisoners; the Boer government had turned Jameson and his
officers over to the British government for trial, and shipped them to England; next, it had
arrested 64 important citizens of Johannesburg as raid-conspirators, condemned their four leaders
to death, then commuted the sentences, and now the 64 were waiting, in jail, for further results.
Before midsummer they were all out excepting two, who refused to sign the petitions for release;
58 had been fined $10,000 each and enlarged, and the four leaders had gotten off with fines
of $125,000 each with permanent exile added, in one case.

Those were wonderfully interesting days for a stranger, and I was glad. to be in the thick
of the excitement.  Everybody was talking, and I expected to understand the whole of one side
of it in a very little while.

I was disappointed.  There were singularities, perplexities, unaccountabilities about it which
I was not able to master.  I had no personal access to Boers--their side was a secret to me,
aside from what I was able to gather of it from published statements.  My sympathies were soon
with the Reformers in the Pretoria jail, with their friends, and with their cause.  By diligent
inquiry in Johannesburg I found out --apparently--all the details of their side of the quarrel
except one--what they expected to accomplish by an armed rising.

Nobody seemed to know.

The reason why the Reformers were discontented and wanted some changes made, seemed quite clear.
In Johannesburg it was claimed that the Uitlanders (strangers, foreigners) paid thirteen-fifteenths
of the Transvaal taxes, yet got little or nothing for it.  Their city had no charter; it had
no municipal government; it could levy no taxes for drainage, water-supply, paving, cleaning,
sanitation, policing.  There was a police force, but it was composed of Boers, it was furnished
by the State Government, and the city had no control over it.  Mining was very costly; the
government enormously increased the cost by putting burdensome taxes upon the mines, the output,
the machinery, the buildings; by burdensome imposts upon incoming materials; by burdensome
railway-freight-charges.  Hardest of all to bear, the government reserved to itself a monopoly
in that essential thing, dynamite, and burdened it with an extravagant price.  The detested
Hollander from over the water held all the public offices.  The government was rank with corruption.
The Uitlander had no vote, and must live in the State ten or twelve years before he could get
one.  He was not represented in the Raad (legislature) that oppressed him and fleeced him.
Religion was not free. There were no schools where the teaching was in English, yet the great
majority of the white population of the State knew no tongue but that. The State would not
pass a liquor law; but allowed a great trade in cheap vile brandy among the blacks, with the
result that 25 per cent. of the 50,000 blacks employed in the mines were usually drunk and
incapable of working.

There--it was plain enough that the reasons for wanting some changes made were abundant and
reasonable, if this statement of the existing grievances was correct.

What the Uitlanders wanted was reform--under the existing Republic.

What they proposed to do was to secure these reforms by, prayer, petition, and persuasion.

They did petition.  Also, they issued a Manifesto, whose very first note is a bugle-blast of
loyalty: "We want the establishment of this Republic as a true Republic."

Could anything be clearer than the Uitlander's statement of the grievances and oppressions
under which they were suffering?  Could anything be more legal and citizen-like and law-respecting
than their attitude as expressed by their Manifesto?  No.  Those things were perfectly clear,
perfectly comprehensible.

But at this point the puzzles and riddles and confusions begin to flock in.  You have arrived
at a place which you cannot quite understand.

For you find that as a preparation for this loyal, lawful, and in every way unexceptionable
attempt to persuade the government to right their grievances, the Uitlanders had smuggled a
Maxim gun or two and 1,500 muskets into the town, concealed in oil tanks and coal cars, and
had begun to form and drill military companies composed of clerks, merchants, and citizens
generally.

What was their idea?  Did they suppose that the Boers would attack them for petitioning, for
redress?  That could not be.

Did they suppose that the Boers would attack them even for issuing a Manifesto demanding relief
under the existing government?

Yes, they apparently believed so, because the air was full of talk of forcing the government
to grant redress if it were not granted peacefully.

The Reformers were men of high intelligence.  If they were in earnest, they were taking extraordinary
risks.  They had enormously valuable properties to defend; their town was full of women and
children; their mines and compounds were packed with thousands upon thousands of sturdy blacks.
If the Boers attacked, the mines would close, the blacks would swarm out and get drunk; riot
and conflagration and the Boers together might lose the Reformers more in a day, in money,
blood, and suffering, than the desired political relief could compensate in ten years if they
won the fight and secured the reforms.

It is May, 1897, now; a year has gone by, and the confusions of that day have been to a considerable
degree cleared away.  Mr. Cecil Rhodes, Dr. Jameson, and others responsible for the Raid, have
testified before the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry in London, and so have Mr. Lionel Phillips
and other Johannesburg Reformers, monthly-nurses of the Revolution which was born dead.  These
testimonies have thrown light. Three books have added much to this light:

"South Africa As It Is," by Mr. Statham, an able writer partial to the Boers; "The Story of
an African Crisis," by Mr. Garrett, a brilliant writer partial to Rhodes; and "A Woman's Part
in a Revolution," by Mrs. John Hays Hammond, a vigorous and vivid diarist, partial to the Reformers.
By liquifying the evidence of the prejudiced books and of the prejudiced parliamentary witnesses
and stirring the whole together and pouring it into my own (prejudiced) moulds, I have got
at the truth of that puzzling South African situation, which is this:

1.  The capitalists and other chief men of Johannesburg were fretting under various political
and financial burdens imposed by the State (the South African Republic, sometimes called "the
Transvaal") and desired to procure by peaceful means a modification of the laws.

2.  Mr. Cecil Rhodes, Premier of the British Cape Colony, millionaire, creator and managing
director of the territorially-immense and financially unproductive South Africa Company; projector
of vast schemes for the unification and consolidation of all the South African States, one
imposing commonwealth or empire under the shadow and general protection of the British flag,
thought he saw an opportunity to make profitable use of the Uitlander discontent above mentioned--make
the Johannesburg cat help pull out one of his consolidation chestnuts for him.  With this view
he set himself the task of warming the lawful and legitimate petitions and supplications of
the Uitlanders into seditious talk, and their frettings into threatenings--the final outcome
to be revolt and armed rebellion.  If he could bring about a bloody collision between those
people and the Boer government, Great Britain would have to interfere; her interference would
be resisted by the Boers; she would chastise them and add the Transvaal to her South African
possessions.  It was not a foolish idea, but a rational and practical one.

After a couple of years of judicious plotting, Mr. Rhodes had his reward; the revolutionary
kettle was briskly boiling in Johannesburg, and the Uitlander leaders were backing their appeals
to the government--now hardened into demands--by threats of force and bloodshed.  By the middle
of December, 1895, the explosion seemed imminent.  Mr. Rhodes was diligently helping, from
his distant post in Cape Town.  He was helping to procure arms for Johannesburg; he was also
arranging to have Jameson break over the border and come to Johannesburg with 600 mounted men
at his back.  Jameson--as per instructions from Rhodes, perhaps--wanted a letter from the Reformers
requesting him to come to their aid.  It was a good idea.  It would throw a considerable share
of the responsibility of his invasion upon the Reformers.  He got the letter--that famous one
urging him to fly to the rescue of the women and children.  He got it two months before he
flew.  The Reformers seem to have thought it over and concluded that they had not done wisely;
for the next day after giving Jameson the implicating document they wanted to withdraw it and
leave the women and children in danger; but they were told that it was too late. The original
had gone to Mr. Rhodes at the Cape.  Jameson had kept a copy, though.

From that time until the 29th of December, a good deal of the Reformers' time was taken up
with energetic efforts to keep Jameson from coming to their assistance.  Jameson's invasion
had been set for the 26th.  The Reformers were not ready.  The town was not united.  Some wanted
a fight, some wanted peace; some wanted a new government, some wanted the existing one reformed;
apparently very few wanted the revolution to take place in the interest and under the ultimate
shelter of the Imperial flag --British; yet a report began to spread that Mr. Rhodes's embarrassing
assistance had for its end this latter object.

Jameson was away up on the frontier tugging at his leash, fretting to burst over the border.
By hard work the Reformers got his starting-date postponed a little, and wanted to get it postponed
eleven days. Apparently, Rhodes's agents were seconding their efforts--in fact wearing out
the telegraph wires trying to hold him back.  Rhodes was himself the only man who could have
effectively postponed Jameson, but that would have been a disadvantage to his scheme; indeed,
it could spoil his whole two years' work.

Jameson endured postponement three days, then resolved to wait no longer. Without any orders--excepting
Mr. Rhodes's significant silence--he cut the telegraph wires on the 29th, and made his plunge
that night, to go to the rescue of the women and children, by urgent request of a letter now
nine days old--as per date,--a couple of months old, in fact.  He read the letter to his men,
and it affected them.  It did not affect all of them alike.  Some saw in it a piece of piracy
of doubtful wisdom, and were sorry to find that they had been assembled to violate friendly
territory instead of to raid native kraals, as they had supposed.

Jameson would have to ride 150 miles.  He knew that there were suspicions abroad in the Transvaal
concerning him, but he expected to get through to Johannesburg before they should become general
and obstructive. But a telegraph wire had been overlooked and not cut.  It spread the news
of his invasion far and wide, and a few hours after his start the Boer farmers were riding
hard from every direction to intercept him.

As soon as it was known in Johannesburg that he was on his way to rescue the women and children,
the grateful people put the women and children in a train and rushed them for Australia.  In
fact, the approach of Johannesburg's saviour created panic and consternation; there, and a
multitude of males of peaceable disposition swept to the trains like a sand-storm.  The early
ones fared best; they secured seats--by sitting in them--eight hours before the first train
was timed to leave.

Mr. Rhodes lost no time.  He cabled the renowned Johannesburg letter of invitation to the London
press--the gray-headedest piece of ancient history that ever went over a cable.

The new poet laureate lost no time.  He came out with a rousing poem lauding Jameson's prompt
and splendid heroism in flying to the rescue of the women and children; for the poet could
not know that he did not fly until two months after the invitation.  He was deceived by the
false date of the letter, which was December 20th.

Jameson was intercepted by the Boers on New Year's Day, and on the next day he surrendered.
He had carried his copy of the letter along, and if his instructions required him--in case
of emergency--to see that it fell into the hands of the Boers, he loyally carried them out.

She requires too much.  He was not in the service of the Reformers --excepting ostensibly;
he was in the service of Mr. Rhodes.  It was the only plain English document, undarkened by
ciphers and mysteries, and responsibly signed and authenticated, which squarely implicated
the Reformers in the raid, and it was not to Mr. Rhodes's interest that it should be eaten.
Besides, that letter was not the original, it was only a copy.  Mr. Rhodes had the original--and
didn't eat it.  He cabled it to the London press.  It had already been read in England and
America and all over Europe before, Jameson dropped it on the battlefield.  If the subordinate's
knuckles deserved a rap, the principal's deserved as many as a couple of them.

That letter is a juicily dramatic incident and is entitled to all its celebrity, because of
the odd and variegated effects which it produced. All within the space of a single week it
had made Jameson an illustrious hero in England, a pirate in Pretoria, and an ass without discretion
or honor in Johannesburg; also it had produced a poet-laureatic explosion of colored fireworks
which filled the world's sky with giddy splendors, and, the knowledge that Jameson was coming
with it to rescue the women and children emptied Johannesburg of that detail of the population.
For an old letter, this was much.  For a letter two months old, it did marvels; if it had been
a year old it would have done miracles.

CHAPTER LXVII.

First catch your Boer, then kick him.
                                  --Pudd'nhead Wilson's New Calendar.

Those latter days were days of bitter worry and trouble for the harassed Reformers.

It also earnestly desires that the inhabitants shall refrain from overt acts against the Boer
government.

It also "distributes arms" at the Court House, and furnishes horses "to the newly-enrolled
volunteers."

It also brings a Transvaal flag into the committee-room, and the entire body swear allegiance
to it "with uncovered heads and upraised arms."

Also "one thousand Lee-Metford rifles have been given out"--to rebels.

Also, in a speech, Reformer Lionel Phillips informs the public that the Reform Committee Delegation
has "been received with courtesy by the Government Commission," and "been assured that their
proposals shall be earnestly considered."  That "while the Reform Committee regretted Jameson's
precipitate action, they would stand by him."

Also the populace are in a state of "wild enthusiasm," and "46 can scarcely be restrained;
they want to go out to meet Jameson and bring him in with triumphal outcry."

Also the British High Commissioner has issued a damnifying proclamation against Jameson and
all British abettors of his game.  It arrives January 1st.

It is a difficult position for the Reformers, and full of hindrances and perplexities.  Their
duty is hard, but plain:

1.  They have to repudiate the inroad, and stand by the inroader.

2.  They have to swear allegiance to the Boer government, and distribute cavalry horses to
the rebels.

3.  They have to forbid overt acts against the Boer government, and distribute arms to its enemies.

4.  They have to avoid collision with the British government, but still stand by Jameson and
their new oath of allegiance to the Boer government, taken, uncovered, in presence of its flag.

They did such of these things as they could; they tried to do them all; in fact, did do them
all, but only in turn, not simultaneously.  In the nature of things they could not be made
to simultane.

In preparing for armed revolution and in talking revolution, were the Reformers "bluffing,"
or were they in earnest?  If they were in earnest, they were taking great risks--as has been
already pointed out.  A gentleman of high position told me in Johannesburg that he had in his
possession a printed document proclaiming a new government and naming its president--one of
the Reform leaders.  He said that this proclamation had been ready for issue, but was suppressed
when the raid collapsed. Perhaps I misunderstood him.  Indeed, I must have misunderstood him,
for I have not seen mention of this large incident in print anywhere.

Besides, I hope I am mistaken; for, if I am, then there is argument that the Reformers were
privately not serious, but were only trying to scare the Boer government into granting the
desired reforms.

The Boer government was scared, and it had a right to be.  For if Mr. Rhodes's plan was to
provoke a collision that would compel the interference of England, that was a serious matter.
If it could be shown that that was also the Reformers' plan and purpose, it would prove that
they had marked out a feasible project, at any rate, although it was one which could hardly
fail to cost them ruinously before England should arrive.  But it seems clear that they had
no such plan nor desire.  If, when the worst should come to the worst, they meant to overthrow
the government, they also meant to inherit the assets themselves, no doubt.

This scheme could hardly have succeeded.  With an army of Boers at their gates and 50,000 riotous
blacks in their midst, the odds against success would have been too heavy--even if the whole
town had been armed.  With only 2,500 rifles in the place, they stood really no chance.

To me, the military problems of the situation are of more interest than the political ones,
because by disposition I have always been especially fond of war.  No, I mean fond of discussing
war; and fond of giving military advice.  If I had been with Jameson the morning after he started,
I should have advised him to turn back.  That was Monday; it was then that he received his
first warning from a Boer source not to violate the friendly soil of the Transvaal.  It showed
that his invasion was known.  If I had been with him on Tuesday morning and afternoon, when
he received further warnings, I should have repeated my advice.  If I had been with him the
next morning--New Year's--when he received notice that "a few hundred" Boers were waiting for
him a few miles ahead, I should not have advised, but commanded him to go back.  And if I had
been with him two or three hours later--a thing not conceivable to me--I should have retired
him by force; for at that time he learned that the few hundred had now grown to 800; and that
meant that the growing would go on growing.

For,--by authority of Mr. Garrett, one knows that Jameson's 600 were only 530 at most, when
you count out his native drivers, etc.; and that the 530 consisted largely of "green" youths,
"raw young fellows," not trained and war-worn British soldiers; and I would have told.  Jameson
that those lads would not be able to shoot effectively from horseback in the scamper and racket
of battle, and that there would not be anything for them to shoot at, anyway, but rocks; for
the Boers would be behind the rocks, not out in the open.  I would have told him that 300 Boer
sharpshooters behind rocks would be an overmatch for his 500 raw young fellows on horseback.

If pluck were the only thing essential to battle-winning, the English would lose no battles.
But discretion, as well as pluck, is required when one fights Boers and Red Indians.  In South
Africa the Briton has always insisted upon standing bravely up, unsheltered, before the hidden
Boer, and taking the results: Jameson's men would follow the custom. Jameson would not have
listened to me--he would have been intent upon repeating history, according to precedent. 
Americans are not acquainted with the British-Boer war of 1881; but its history is interesting,
and could have been instructive to Jameson if he had been receptive.  I will cull some details
of it from trustworthy sources mainly from "Russell's Natal."  Mr. Russell is not a Boer, but
a Briton.  He is inspector of schools, and his history is a text-book whose purpose is the
instruction of the Natal English youth.

After the seizure of the Transvaal and the suppression of the Boer government by England in
1877, the Boers fretted for three years, and made several appeals to England for a restoration
of their liberties, but without result.  Then they gathered themselves together in a great
mass-meeting at Krugersdorp, talked their troubles over, and resolved to fight for their deliverance
from the British yoke.  (Krugersdorp--the place where the Boers interrupted the Jameson raid.)
The little handful of farmers rose against the strongest empire in the world.  They proclaimed
martial law and the re-establishment of their Republic.  They organized their forces and sent
them forward to intercept the British battalions. This, although Sir Garnet Wolseley had but
lately made proclamation that "so long as the sun shone in the heavens," the Transvaal would
be and remain English territory.  And also in spite of the fact that the commander of the 94th
regiment--already on the march to suppress this rebellion--had been heard to say that "the
Boers would turn tail at the first beat of the big drum."--["South Africa As It Is," by F.
Reginald Statham, page 82.  London: T.  Fisher Unwin, 1897.]

Four days after the flag-raising, the Boer force which had been sent forward to forbid the
invasion of the English troops met them at Bronkhorst Spruit--246 men of the 94th regiment,
in command of a colonel, the big drum beating, the band playing--and the first battle was fought.
It lasted ten minutes.  Result:

     British loss, more than 150 officers and men, out of the 246.
     Surrender of the remnant.

     Boer loss--if any--not stated.

They are fine marksmen, the Boers.  From the cradle up, they live on horseback and hunt wild
animals with the rifle.  They have a passion for liberty and the Bible, and care for nothing else.

"General Sir George Colley, Lieutenant-Governor and Commander-in-Chief in Natal, felt it his
duty to proceed at once to the relief of the loyalists and soldiers beleaguered in the different
towns of the Transvaal."  He moved out with 1,000 men and some artillery.  He found the Boers
encamped in a strong and sheltered position on high ground at Laing's Nek--every Boer behind
a rock.  Early in the morning of the 28th January, 1881, he moved to the attack "with the 58th
regiment, commanded by Colonel Deane, a mounted squadron of 70 men, the 60th Rifles, the Naval
Brigade with three rocket tubes, and the Artillery with six guns."  He shelled the Boers for
twenty minutes, then the assault was delivered, the 58th marching up the slope in solid column.
The battle was soon finished, with this result, according to Russell--

     British loss in killed and wounded, 174.

     Boer loss, "trifling."

Colonel Deane was killed, and apparently every officer above the grade of lieutenant was killed
or wounded, for the 58th retreated to its camp in command of a lieutenant.  ("Africa as It Is.")

That ended the second battle.

On the 7th of February General Colley discovered that the Boers were flanking his position.
The next morning he left his camp at Mount Pleasant and marched out and crossed the Ingogo
river with 270 men, started up the Ingogo heights, and there fought a battle which lasted from
noon till nightfall.  He then retreated, leaving his wounded with his military chaplain, and
in recrossing the now swollen river lost some of his men by drowning.  That was the third Boer
victory.  Result, according to Mr. Russell--

     British loss 150 out of 270 engaged.

     Boer loss, 8 killed, 9 wounded--17.

There was a season of quiet, now, but at the end of about three weeks Sir George Colley conceived
the idea of climbing, with an infantry and artillery force, the steep and rugged mountain of
Amajuba in the night--a bitter hard task, but he accomplished it.  On the way he left about
200 men to guard a strategic point, and took about 400 up the mountain with him.  When the
sun rose in the morning, there was an unpleasant surprise for the Boers; yonder were the English
troops visible on top of the mountain two or three miles away, and now their own position was
at the mercy of the English artillery.  The Boer chief resolved to retreat--up that mountain.
He asked for volunteers, and got them.

The storming party crossed the swale and began to creep up the steeps, "and from behind rocks
and bushes they shot at the soldiers on the skyline as if they were stalking deer," says Mr.
Russell.  There was "continuous musketry fire, steady and fatal on the one side, wild and ineffectual
on the other." The Boers reached the top, and began to put in their ruinous work.  Presently
the British "broke and fled for their lives down the rugged steep." The Boers had won the battle.
Result in killed and wounded, including among the killed the British General:

     British loss, 226, out of 400 engaged.

     Boer loss, 1 killed, 5 wounded.

That ended the war.  England listened to reason, and recognized the Boer Republic--a government
which has never been in any really awful danger since, until Jameson started after it with
his 500 "raw young fellows." To recapitulate:

The Boer farmers and British soldiers fought 4 battles, and the Boers won them all.  Result
of the 4, in killed and wounded:

     British loss, 700 men.

     Boer loss, so far as known, 23 men.

It is interesting, now, to note how loyally Jameson and his several trained British military
officers tried to make their battles conform to precedent.  Mr. Garrett's account of the Raid
is much the best one I have met with, and my impressions of the Raid are drawn from that.

When Jameson learned that near Krugersdorp he would find 800 Boers waiting to dispute his passage,
he was not in the least disturbed.  He was feeling as he had felt two or three days before,
when he had opened his campaign with a historic remark to the same purport as the one with
which the commander of the 94th had opened the Boer-British war of fourteen years before. 
That Commander's remark was, that the Boers "would turn tail at the first beat of the big drum."
Jameson's was, that with his "raw young fellows" he could kick the (persons) of the Boers "all
round the Transvaal."  He was keeping close to historic precedent.

