"Do as I bid you;--get a doctor and send up the landlord immediately. It is not a fit, but
his lordship has been much hurt. I knocked him down." The Dean made the last statement slowly
and firmly, under a feeling at the moment that it became him to leave nothing concealed, even
with a servant.

"He has murdered me," groaned the Marquis. The injured one could speak at least, and there
was comfort in that. The servant rushed back to the regions below, and the tidings were soon
spread through the house. Resident landlord there was none. There never are resident landlords
in London hotels. Scumberg was a young family of joint heirs and heiresses, named Tomkins,
who lived at Hastings, and the house was managed by Mrs. Walker. Mrs. Walker was soon in the
room, with a German deputy manager kept to maintain the foreign Scumberg connection, and with
them sundry waiters and the head chambermaid. Mrs. Walker made a direct attack upon the Dean,
which was considerably weakened by accusations from the lips of the Marquis himself. Had he
remained speechless for a while the horrors of the Dean's conduct would have been greatly aggravated.
"My good woman," said the Dean, "wait till some official is here. You cannot understand. And
get a little warm water and wash his lordship's head."

"He has broken my back," said his lordship. "Oh, oh, oh."

"I am glad to hear you speak, Lord Brotherton," said the Dean. "I think you will repent having
used such a word as that to my daughter." It would be necessary now that everybody should understand
everything; but how terrible would it be for the father even to say that such a name had been
applied to his child!

First there came two policemen, then a surgeon, and then a sergeant. "I will do anything that
you suggest, Mr. Constable," said the Dean, "though I hope it may not be necessary that I should
remain in custody. I am the Dean of Brotherton." The sergeant made a sign of putting his finger
up to his cap. "This, man, as you know, is the Marquis of Brotherton." The sergeant bowed to
the groaning nobleman. "My daughter is married to his brother. There have been family quarrels,
and he just now applied a name to his own sister-in-law, to my child,--which I will not utter
because there are women here. Fouler slander never came from a man's mouth. I took him from
his chair and threw him beneath the grate. Now you know it all. Were it to do again, I would
do it again."

"She is a ----," said the imprudent prostrate Marquis. The sergeant, the doctor who was now
present, and Mrs. Walker suddenly became the Dean's friends. The Marquis was declared to be
much shaken, to have a cut head, and to be very badly bruised about the muscles of the back.
But a man who could so speak of his sister-in-law deserved to have his head cut and his muscles
bruised. Nevertheless the matter was too serious to be passed over without notice. The doctor
could not say that the unfortunate nobleman had received no permanent injury;--and the sergeant
had not an opportunity of dealing with deans and marquises every day of his life. The doctor
remained with his august patient and had him put to bed, while the Dean and the sergeant together
went off in a cab to the police-office which lies in the little crowded streets between the
crooked part of Regent Street and Piccadilly. Here depositions were taken and forms filled,
and the Dean was allowed to depart with an understanding that he was to be forthcoming immediately
when wanted. He suggested that it had been his intention to go down to Brotherton on the following
day, but the Superintendent of Police recommended him to abandon that idea. The superintendent
thought that the Dean had better make arrangements to stay in London till the end of the week.

CHAPTER XLII.

"NOT GO!"

The Dean had a great deal to think of as he walked home a little too late for his daughter's
usual dinner hour. What should he tell her;--and what should he do as to communicating or not
communicating tidings of the day's work to Lord George? Of course everybody must know what
had been done sooner or later. He would have had no objection to that,--providing the truth
could be told accurately,--except as to the mention of his daughter's name in the same sentence
with that abominable word. But the word would surely be known, and the facts would not be told
with accuracy unless he told them himself. His only, but his fully sufficient defence was in
the word. But who would know the tone? Who would understand the look of the man's eye and the
smile on his mouth? Who could be made to conceive, as the Dean himself had conceived, the aggravated
injury of the premeditated slander? He would certainly write and tell Lord George everything.
But to his daughter he thought that he would tell as little as possible. Might God in his mercy
save her ears, her sacred feelings, her pure heart from the wound of that word! He felt that
she was dearer to him than ever she had been,--that he would give up deanery and everything
if he could save her by doing so. But he felt that if she were to be sacrificed in the contest,
he would give up deanery and everything in avenging her.

But something must be told to her. He at any rate must remain in town, and it would be very
desirable that she should stay with him. If she went alone she would at once be taken to Cross
Hall; and he could understand that the recent occurrence would not add to the serenity of her
life there. The name that had been applied to her, together with the late folly of which her
husband had been guilty, would give those Manor Cross dragons,--as the Dean was apt in his
own thoughts to call the Ladies Germain--a tremendous hold over her. And should she be once
at Cross Hall he would hardly be able to get her back to the deanery.

He hurried up to dress as soon as he reached the house, with a word of apology as to being
late, and then found her in the drawing room.

"Papa," she said, "I do like Mrs. Montacute Jones."

"So do I, my dear, because she is good-humoured."

"But she is so good-natured also! She has been here again to-day and wants me and George to
go down to Scotland in August. I should so like it."

"What will George say?"

"Of course he won't go; and of course I shan't. But that doesn't make it the less good-natured.
She wishes all her set to think that what happened the other night doesn't mean anything."

"I'm afraid he won't consent."

"I know he won't. He wouldn't know what to do with himself. He hates a house full of people.
And now tell me what the Marquis said." But dinner was announced, and the Dean was not forced
to answer this question immediately.

"Now, papa," she said again, as soon as the coffee was brought and the servant was gone, "do
tell me what my most noble brother-in-law wanted to say to you?"

That he certainly would not tell. "Your brother-in-law, my dear, behaved about as badly as
a man could behave."

"Oh, dear! I am so sorry!"

"We have to be sorry,--both of us. And your husband will be sorry." He was so serious that
she hardly knew how to speak to him. "I cannot tell you everything; but he insulted me, and
I was forced to--strike him."

"Strike him! Oh, papa!"

"Bear with me, Mary. In all things I think well of you, and do you try to think well of me."

"Dear papa! I will. I do. I always did."

"Anything he might have said of myself I could have borne. He could have applied no epithet
to me which, I think, could even have ruffled me. But he spoke evil of you." While he was sitting
there he made up his mind that he would tell her as much as that, though he had before almost
resolved that he would not speak to her of herself. But she must hear something of the truth,
and better that she should hear it from his than from other lips. She turned very pale, but
did not immediately make any reply. "Then I was full of wrath," he continued. "I did not even
attempt to control myself; but I took him by the throat and flung him violently to the ground.
He fell upon the grate, and it may be that he has been hurt. Had the fall killed him he would
have deserved it. He had courage to wound a father in his tenderest part, only because that
father was a clergyman. His belief in a black coat will, I think, be a little weakened by what
occurred to-day."

"What will be done?" she asked, whispering.

"Heaven only knows. But I can't go out of town to-morrow. I shall write to George to-night
and tell him everything that has occurred, and shall beg that you may be allowed to stay with
me for the few days that will be necessary."

"Of course I will not leave you."

"It is not that. But I do not want you to go to Cross Hall quite at present. If you went without
me they would not let you come to the deanery. Of course there will be a great commotion at
Cross Hall. Of course they will condemn me. Many will condemn me, as it will be impossible
to make the world believe the exact truth."

"I will never condemn you," she said. Then she came over and threw herself on her knees at
his feet, and embraced him. "But, papa, what did the man say of me?"

"Not what he believed;--but what he thought would give me the greatest anguish. Never mind.
Do not ask any more questions. You also had better write to your husband, and you can tell
him fully all that I have told you. If you will write to-night I will do so also, and I will
take care that they shall have our letters to-morrow afternoon. We must send a message to say
that we shall not be at the deanery to-morrow." The two letters to Lord George were both written
that night, and were both very long. They told the same story, though in a different tone.
The Dean was by no means apologetic, but was very full and very true. When he came to the odious
word he could not write it, but he made it very clear without writing. Would not the husband
feel as he the father had felt in regard to his young wife, the sweet pure girl of whose love
and possession he ought to be so proud? How would any brother be forgiven who had assailed
such a treasure as this;--much less such a brother as this Marquis? Perhaps Lord George might
think it right to come up. The Dean would of course ask at the hotel on the following day,
and would go to the police office. He believed, he said, that no permanent injury had been
done. Then came, perhaps, the pith of his letter. He trusted that Lord George would agree with
him in thinking that Mary had better remain with him in town during the two or three days of
his necessarily prolonged sojourn. This was put in the form of a request; but was put in a
manner intended to show that the request if not granted would be enforced. The Dean was fully
determined that Mary should not at once go down to Cross Hall.

Her letter was supplicatory, spasmodic, full of sorrow, and full of love. She was quite sure
that her dear papa would have done nothing that he ought not to have done; but yet she was
very sorry for the Marquis, because of his mother and sisters, and because of her dear, dear
George. Could he not run up to them and hear all about it from papa? If the Marquis had said
ill-natured things of her it was very cruel, because nobody loved her husband better than she
loved her dear, dear George,--and so on. The letters were then sent under cover to the housekeeper
at the deanery, with orders to send them on by private messenger to Cross Hall.

On the following day the Dean went to Scumberg's, but could not learn much there. The Marquis
had been very bad, and had had one and another doctor with him almost continually; but Mrs.
Walker could not take upon herself to say that "it was dangerous." She thought it was "in'ard."
Mrs. Walkers always do think that it is "in'ard" when there is nothing palpable outward. At
any rate his lordship had not been out of bed and had taken nothing but tapioca and brandy.
There was very little more than this to be learned at the police court. The case might be serious,
but the superintendent hoped otherwise. The superintendent did not think that the Dean should
go down quite to-morrow. The morrow was Friday; but he suggested Saturday as possible, Monday
as almost certain. It may be as well to say here that the Dean did not call at the police court
again, and heard nothing further from the officers of the law respecting the occurrence at
Scumberg's. On the Friday he called again at Scumberg's, and the Marquis was still in bed.
His "in'ards" had not ceased to be matter of anxiety to Mrs. Walker; but the surgeon, whom
the Dean now saw, declared that the muscles of the nobleman's back were more deserving of sympathy.
The surgeon, with a gravity that almost indicated offence, expressed his opinion that the Marquis's
back had received an injury which--which might be--very injurious.

Lord George when he received the letters was thrown into a state of mind that almost distracted
him. During the last week or two the animosity felt at Cross Hall against the Marquis had been
greatly weakened. A feeling had come upon the family that after all Popenjoy was Popenjoy;
and that, although the natal circumstances of such a Popenjoy were doubtless unfortunate for
the family generally, still, as an injury had been done to the Marquis by the suspicion, those
circumstances ought now to be in a measure forgiven. The Marquis was the head of the family,
and a family will forgive much to its head when that head is a Marquis. As we know the Dowager
had been in his favour from the first, Lord George had lately given way and had undergone a
certain amount of reconciliation with his brother. Lady Amelia had seceded to her mother, as
had also Mrs. Toff, the old housekeeper. Lady Susanna was wavering, having had her mind biased
by the objectionable conduct of the Dean and his daughter. Lady Sarah was more stanch. Lady
Sarah had never yet given way; she never did give way; and, in her very heart, she was the
best friend that Mary had among the ladies of the family. But when her brother gave up the
contest she felt that further immediate action was impossible. Things were in this state at
Cross Hall when Lord George received the two letters. He did not wish to think well of the
Dean just at present, and was horrified at the idea of a clergyman knocking a Marquis into
the fire-place. But the word indicated was very plain, and that word had been applied to his
own wife. Or, perhaps, no such word had really been used. Perhaps the Dean had craftily saved
himself from an absolute lie, and in his attempt to defend the violence of his conduct had
brought an accusation against the Marquis, which was in its essence, untrue. Lord George was
quite alive to the duty of defending his wife; but in doing so he was no longer anxious to
maintain affectionate terms with his wife's father. She had been very foolish. All the world
had admitted as much. He had seen it with his own eyes at that wretched ball. She had suffered
her name to be joined with that of a stranger in a manner derogatory to her husband's honour.
It was hardly surprising that his brother should have spoken of her conduct in disparaging
terms;--but he did not believe that his brother had used that special term. Personal violence;--blows
and struggling, and that on the part of a Dean of the Church of England, and violence such
as this seemed to have been,--violence that might have killed the man attacked, seemed to him
to be in any case unpardonable. He certainly could not live on terms of friendship with the
Dean immediately after such a deed. His wife must be taken away and secluded, and purified
by a long course of Germain asceticism.

But what must he do now at once? He felt that it was his duty to hurry up to London, but he
could not bring himself to live in the same house with the Dean. His wife must be taken away
from her father. However bad may have been the language used by the Marquis, however indefensible,
he could not allow himself even to seem to keep up affectionate relations with the man who
had half slaughtered his brother. He too thought of what the world would say, he too felt that
such an affair, after having become known to the police, would be soon known to every one else.
But what must he do at once? He had not as yet made up his mind as to this when he took his
place at the Brotherton Railway Station on the morning after he had received the letters.

But on reaching the station in London he had so far made up his mind as to have his portmanteau
taken to the hotel close at hand, and then to go to Munster Court. He had hoped to find his
wife alone; but on his arrival the Dean was there also. "Oh, George," she said, "I am so glad
you have come; where are your things?" He explained that he had no things, that he had come
up only for a short time, and had left his luggage at the station. "But you will stay here
to-night?" asked Mary, in despair.

Lord George hesitated, and the Dean at once saw how it was. "You will not go back to Brotherton
to-day," he said. Now, at this moment the Dean had to settle in his mind the great question
whether it would be best for his girl that she should be separated from her husband or from
her father. In giving him his due it must be acknowledged that he considered only what might
in truth be best for her. If she were now taken away from him there would be no prospect of
recovery. After all that had passed, after Lord George's submission to his brother, the Dean
was sure that he would be held in abhorrence by the whole Germain family. Mary would be secluded
and trodden on, and reduced to pale submission by all the dragons till her life would be miserable.
Lord George himself would be prone enough to domineer in such circumstances. And then that
ill word which had been spoken, and which could only be effectually burned out of the thoughts
of people by a front to the world at the same time innocent and bold, would stick to her for
ever if she were carried away into obscurity.

But the Dean knew as well as others know how great is the evil of a separation, and how specially
detrimental such a step would be to a young wife. Than a permanent separation anything would
be better; better even that she should be secluded and maligned, and even, for a while, trodden
under foot. Were such separation to take place his girl would have been altogether sacrificed,
and her life's happiness brought to shipwreck. But then a permanent separation was not probable.
She had done nothing wrong. The husband and wife did in truth love each other dearly. The Marquis
would be soon gone, and then Lord George would return to his old habits of thought and his
old allegiance. Upon the whole the Dean thought it best that his present influence should be
used in taking his daughter to the deanery.

"I should like to return quite early to-morrow," said Lord George, very gravely, "unless my
brother's condition should make it impossible."

"I trust you won't find your brother much the worse for what has happened," said the Dean.

"But you will sleep here to-night," repeated Mary.

"I will come for you the first thing in the morning," said Lord George in the same funereal voice.

"But why;--why?"

"I shall probably have to be a good deal with my brother during the afternoon. But I will be
here again in the afternoon. You can be at home at five, and you can get your things ready
for going to-morrow."

"Won't you dine here?"

"I think not."

Then there was silence for a minute. Mary was completely astounded. Lord George wished to say
nothing further in the presence of his father-in-law. The Dean was thinking how he would begin
to use his influence. "I trust you will not take Mary away to-morrow."

"Oh;--certainly."

"I trust not. I must ask you to hear me say a few words about this."

"I must insist on her coming with me to-morrow, even though I should have to return to London
myself afterwards."

"Mary," said her father, "leave us for a moment." Then Mary retired, with a very saddened air.
"Do you understand, George, what it was that your brother said to me?"

"I suppose so," he answered, hoarsely.

"Then, no doubt, I may take it for granted that you approve of the violence of my resentment?
To me as a clergyman, and as a man past middle life, the position was very trying. But had
I been an Archbishop, tottering on the grave with years, I must have endeavoured to do the
same." This he said with great energy. "Tell me, George, that you think that I was right."

But George had not heard the word, had not seen the man's face. And then, though he would have
gone to a desert island with his wife, had such exile been necessary for her protection, he
did believe that she had misconducted herself. Had he not seen her whirling round the room
with that man after she had been warned against him. "It cannot be right to murder a man,"
he said at last.

"You do not thank me then for vindicating your honour and your wife's innocence?"

"I do not think that that was the way. The way is to take her home."

"Yes;--to her old home,--to the deanery for a while; so that the world, which will no doubt
hear the malignant epithet applied to her by your wicked brother, may know that both her husband
and her father support her. You had promised to come to the deanery."

"We cannot do that now."

"Do you mean that after what has passed you will take your brother's part?"

"I will take my wife to Cross Hall," he said, leaving the room and following Mary up to her
chamber.

"What am I to do, papa?" she said when she came down about half-an-hour afterwards. Lord George
had then started to Scumberg's, saying that he would come to Munster Court again before dinner,
but telling her plainly that he would not sit down to dine with her father, "He has determined
to quarrel with you."

"It will only be for a time, dearest."

"But what shall I do?"

Now came the peril of the answer. He was sure, almost sure, that she would in this emergency
rely rather upon him than on her husband, if he were firm; but should he be firm as against
the husband, how great would be his responsibility! "I think, my dear," he said, at last, "that
you should go with me to Brotherton."

"But he will not let me."

"I think that you should insist on his promise."

"Don't make us quarrel, papa."

"Certainly not. Anything would be better than a permanent quarrel. But, after what has been
said, after the foul lies that have been told, I think that you should assert your purpose
of staying for awhile with your father. Were you now to go to Cross Hall there would be no
limit to their tyranny." He left her without a word more, and calling at Scumberg's Hotel was
told that the Marquis could not move.

At that moment Lord George was with his brother, and the Marquis could talk though he could
not move. "A precious family you've married into, George," he said, almost as soon as his brother
was in the room. Then he gave his own version of the affair, leaving his brother in doubt as
to the exact language that had been used. "He ought to have been a coal-heaver instead of a
clergyman," said the Marquis.

"Of course he would be angry," said Lord George.

"Nothing astonishes me so much," said the Marquis, "as the way in which you fellows here think
you may say whatever comes into your head about my wife, because she is an Italian, and you
seem to be quite surprised if I object; yet you rage like wild beasts if the compliment is
returned. Why am I to think better of your wife than you of mine?"

"I have said nothing against your wife, Brotherton."

"By ----, I think you have said a great deal,--and with much less reason than I have. What
did you do yourself when you found her struggling in that fellow's arms at the old woman's
party?" Some good-natured friend had told the Marquis the whole story of the Kappa-kappa. "You
can't be deaf to what all the world is saying of her." This was wormwood to the wretched husband,
and yet he could not answer with angry, self-reliant indignation, while his brother was lying
almost motionless before him.

Lord George found that he could do nothing at Scumberg's Hotel. He was assured that his brother
was not in danger, and that the chief injury done was to the muscles of his back, which bruised
and lacerated as they were, would gradually recover such elasticity as they had ever possessed.
But other words were said and other hints expressed, all of which tended to increase his animosity
against the Dean, and almost to engender anger against his wife. To himself, personally, except
in regard to his wife, his brother had not been ungracious. The Marquis intended to return
to Italy as soon as he could. He hated England and everything in it. Manor Cross would very
soon be at Lord George's disposal, "though I do hope," said the Marquis, "that the lady who
has condescended to make me her brother-in-law, will never reign paramount there." By degrees
there crept on Lord George's mind a feeling that his brother looked to a permanent separation,--something
like a repudiation. Over and over again he spoke of Mary as though she had disgraced herself
utterly; and when Lord George defended his wife, the lord only smiled and sneered.

The effect upon Lord George was to make him very imperious as he walked back to Munster Court.
He could not repudiate his wife, but he would take her away with a very high hand. Crossing
the Green Park, at the back of Arlington Street, whom should he meet but Mrs. Houghton with
her cousin Jack. He raised his hat, but could not stop a moment. Mrs. Houghton made an attempt
to arrest him,--but he escaped without a word and went on very quickly. His wife had behaved
generously about Mrs. Houghton. The sight of the woman brought that truth to his mind. He was
aware of that. But no generosity on the part of the wife, no love, no temper, no virtue, no
piety can be accepted by Cæsar as weighing a grain in counterpoise against even suspicion.

He found his wife and asked her whether her things were being packed. "I cannot go to-morrow,"
she said.

"Not go?"

"No, George;--not to Cross Hall. I will go to the deanery. You promised to go to the deanery."

"I will not go to the deanery. I will go to Cross Hall." There was an hour of it, but during
the entire hour, the young wife persisted obstinately that she would not be taken to Cross
Hall. "She had," she said, "been very badly treated by her husband's family." "Not by me,"
shouted the husband. She went on to say that nothing could now really put her right but the
joint love of her father and her husband. Were she at Cross Hall her father could do nothing
for her. She would not go to Cross Hall. Nothing short of policemen should take her to Cross
Hall to-morrow.

CHAPTER XLIII.

REAL LOVE.

"He is looking awfully cut up," Mrs. Houghton said to her cousin.

"He is one of the most infernal fools that ever I came across in my life," said Jack.

"I don't see that he is a fool at all,--any more than all men are fools. There isn't one among
you is ever able to keep his little troubles to himself. You are not a bit wiser than the rest
of them yourself."

"I haven't got any troubles,--of that sort."

"You haven't a wife,--but you'll be forced into having one before long. And when you like another
man's wife you can't keep all the world from knowing it."

"All the world may know everything that has taken place between me and Lady George," said Jack.
"Of course I like her."

"I should say, rather."

"And so do you."

"No, I don't, sir. I don't like her at all. She is a foolish, meaningless little creature,
with nothing to recommend her but a pretty colour. And she has cut me because her husband will
come and pour out his sorrow into my ears. For his sake I used to be good to her."

"I think she is the sweetest human being I ever came across in my life," said Jack, enthusiastically.

"Everybody in London knows that you think so,--and that you have told her your thoughts."

"Nobody in London knows anything of the kind. I never said a word to her that her husband mightn't
have heard."

"Jack!"

"I never did."

"I wonder you are not ashamed to confess such simplicity, even to me."

"I am not a bit ashamed of that, though I am ashamed of having in some sort contributed to
do her an injury. Of course I love her."

"Rather,--as I said before."

"Of course you intended that I should."

"I intended that you should amuse yourself. As long as you are good to me, I shall be good to you."

"My dear Adelaide, nobody can be so grateful as I am. But in this matter the thing hasn't gone
quite as you intended. You say that she is meaningless."

"Vapid, flabby, childish, and innocent as a baby."

"Innocent I am sure she is. Vapid and flabby she certainly is not. She is full of fun, and
is quite as witty as a woman should be."

"You always liked fools, Jack."

"Then how did I come to be so very fond of you." In answer to this she merely made a grimace
at him. "I hadn't known her three days," continued he, "before I began to feel how impossible
it would be to say anything to her that ought not to be said."

"That is just like the world all over," said Mrs. Houghton. "When a man really falls in love
with a woman he always makes her such a goddess that he doesn't dare to speak to her. The effect
is that women are obliged to put up with men who ain't in love with them,--either that, or
vouchsafe to tell their own little story,--when, lo, they are goddesses no longer."

"I dare say it's very ridiculous," said Jack, in a mooning despondent way. "I dare say I'm
not the man I ought to be after the advantages I have had in such friends as you and others."

"If you try to be severe to me, I'll quarrel with you."

"Not severe at all. I'm quite in earnest. A man, and a woman too, have to choose which kind
of role shall be played. There is innocence and purity, combined with going to church and seeing
that the children's faces are washed. The game is rather slow, but it lasts a long time, and
leads to great capacity for digesting your dinner in old age. You and I haven't gone in for that."

"Do you mean to say that I am not innocent?"

"Then there is the Devil with all his works,--which I own are, for the most part, pleasant
works to me. I have always had a liking for the Devil."

"Jack!"

"Of all the saints going he is certainly the most popular. It is pleasant to ignore the Commandments
and enjoy the full liberty of a debauched conscience. But there are attendant evils. It costs
money and wears out the constitution."

"I should have thought that you had never felt the latter evil."

"The money goes first, no doubt. This, however, must surely be clear. A man should make up
his mind and not shilly-shally between the two."

"I should have thought you had made up your mind very absolutely."

"I thought so, too, Adelaide, till I knew Lady George Germain. I'll tell you what I feel about
her now. If I could have any hope that he would die I would put myself into some reformatory
to fit myself to be her second husband."

"Good heavens!"

"That is one idea that I have. Another is to cut his throat, and take my chance with the widow.
She is simply the only woman I ever saw that I have liked all round."

"You come and tell me this, knowing what I think of her."

"Why shouldn't I tell you? You don't want me to make love to you?"

"But a woman never cares to hear all these praises of another."

"It was you began it, and if I do speak of her I shall tell the truth. There is a freshness
as of uncut flowers about her."

"Psha! Worms and grubs!"

"And when she laughs one dreams of a chaste Venus."

"My heavens, Jack! You should publish all that!"

"The dimples on her cheeks are so alluring that I would give my commission to touch them once
with my finger. When I first knew her I thought that the time would come when I might touch
them. Now I feel that I would not commit such an outrage to save myself from being cashiered."

"Shall I tell you what you ought to do?"

"Hang myself."

"Just say to her all that you have said to me. You would soon find that her dimples are not
more holy than another's."

"You think so."

"Of course I think so. The only thing that puzzles me is that you, Jack De Baron, should be
led away to such idolatry. Why should she be different from others? Her father is a money-loving,
selfish old reprobate, who was born in a stable. She married the first man that was brought
to her, and has never cared for him because he does not laugh, and dance, and enjoy himself
after her fashion. I don't suppose she is capable of caring very much for anybody, but she
likes you better than any one else. Among Neluco and I supply the requested details about
his illness and death ... and jumped at once what I saw coming time did, and I wondered why
I had not jumped before the conversation: the point of continuing I was there the charity of my uncle.
Don Roman was silent here as death, and said the famous campurriano, after applauding the good intentions
declared by me to put all means to achieve such great goals, if I decided, in my procedures,
to serve protected my old wine into new bottles, which he does not disapprove, he did with
great touch, 'because - he concluded - and beautiful is the light, but do not open all the windows
suddenly those who have lived in darkness for ailments of the eye, for there to be afraid of the crazy
things enter through the dazzled eyes. " This could no longer remain silent Don Roman, and
gave the example Coteruco's fall, as a demonstration of what his friend said. Straightened the
conversation these lanes, we talked about what it cost him acclimate to life in the city could not
her such a man, born to breathe oxygenated air, pure, Nature, and also required the presence and
even the company of those men, rustic, even with their ingratitude. The action of leaving them
alone with his sin, had made very good fruit. Gradually raising had gone from his fall, and
already missed. This will consoled and satisfied him, and if he had not already Coteruco was
because I wanted to be desired a little more, to better ensure the healing of his "crazy."
Unfortunately not involved those children of their dreams, because they had other tastes very different,
but all could fixed with some sacrifice of everyone. Meanwhile, distracted by his impatience
with spells of a little grandson that God had given him, and was the most beautiful creature he
had born mother. He went then in proceeding with Sotorribas projects, so that the known his
other grandfather, Don Lazaro, whose ailments prevented him from leaving home.

Someone asked if there was true that Don Gonzalo González de la Gonzalera
had been poor memory and trouble and waste resulting from domestic,
but got no response the question because of a sudden appeared in the
room a new character that began to say that not for having shot three
times on the floor and almost burst the dappled in his desire to run,
had been reached before.

Thus came the unhappy muddy and tattered from head to toe! He was a man of good age, nice picture
... and its municipal judge people, from that very empingorotado that I had met one of my blood
of promise, Neluco going to the Tower of Provedaño. The case was that by going to ride early
in the morning attend the funeral of my uncle, had delivered a letter from the court of first
instance forcing him to practice some procedures as he entertained about two hours ... all respects
to "trigedia" the day before, that I should know, and for this the truth were told, for who
knew him mainly came.

Hicímosle seat at the table, preventing Facia that were served from the noodle soup inclusive,
and while out Tona and his mother was changing and removing leftover food destroyed in stews, and
all we paid him very great care, he noted that lowering a pastor of winter, just started the
desnieve, cross country, because it pushed the ran very cold and
a black cloud of bad part and worse road, stopped for a moment and
take a tinderbox and light the pipe, the same mouth of a covachón,
known to very few for being out of path frequented, as half the distance,
the short cut between Tablanca and the people of relatante, but in
this municipality.

Standing there and give the pastor you hit the edge of the knife, because it sparked the stone
was not tinder the best, notes on the nose gives a "jedor" that would lie on his back. Look
here smells there, note that the jedor out of the cave, curiosity tempt them, enter, and at
a bend very wide, to the right, sees three men lying in the long run, face up, stiff and almost
stacked on each other, killed three and leaning against one of ash and embers Piluca off.
Frightening, flee from there, and for being the closest, according to his account, gives the
people the narrator relates what he has seen. It goes back in his office, accompanied by appropriate
way, and truth is denounced by the pastor. Three were, indeed, the bodies and of well-known
place, and were well equipped firearms ... and up ropes and knives. Without doubt the surprise
snowstorm there since the beginning, and they perished from hunger and cold ... by decree
of God who knew his evil intentions. It was a comb that was called an engineer and said go in search
of a gold mine, months made and, with his ragged clothes, his matted hair and wild beard and
seams in the face, it started half an eye and nose.

Here there was a clatter of dishes infernal tattered, and a cry of Facia who is had fallen
from his hands as a dozen of them. Then I looked and found her looking at me me with frightened
eyes and the color of death in the face. I told him to mine not to commit indiscreet; entendióme,
and added in words and smiling was not the mess one reason to be frightened so much, referring
to the pieces, while snuggled Tona the municipal judge's two half-full of dishes knowledgeable
sources, so some pasmadona had caught the story, but probably more by the disaster of the vessel,
which had started her mother cry.

Relatante to become the story after this incident, and seeing that, out of respect for I certainly
was with Repulgue and fussiness to testify who were net Castilian the other two dead, apresuréme
to say:

- I am well aware of who it is, and you want to avoid reluctance to declare before me are two
of my relatives, of the two gentlemen of promise. With a that the engineer lived CHIRLA, in
his hometown of you: we saw them together and I passed Neluco for him, going to Provedaño. As good
news source, then waiting overnight missing brother of one my relative
(who, apparently, arrived in time) to give final blow to the exploitation
of gold mine he had discovered the lynx wild beard.

In good justice, had three more than deserved the stick, which had dead are not dying in this
different manner. So you see you if I have to reason, as far as touches my relatives, to rejoice
that they have finished well, like any good man.

Preopinante said was the truth that everything I had said, added in response a question that someone
did, that the man in the face Chirlo had lived in the place with the name, certainly, of course,
Pedro Gonzalez as reflected in his personal card, and that that had been registered as dead
in the book in question; alegréme yo this, and surely would be glad Facia, who listened, much
more ... and ended the conversation without getting into a new one, because he had also finished the
meal, time was pressing and had much to outsiders for the guests go back to their homes each,
and other to complete their journey.

Because Don was the first leg advantage to Recaredo Tablanca to transact business, yet that step
and a half ago in a village of Nansa downstream, and was also renowned chores campurriano
emergency in the capital so he took with Don Roman and her husband. Disappeared without knowing how
Don Lope; depart, while he was eating everything put in front of the municipal judge aforesaid,
the two unequal and the five wealthiest Caórnica Nansa upstream and downstream of the house, ended
at last, eating the remaining eating, and went off too, and well stocked, instead ...

The next day, very early, took off to Robacio's sister and brother-Neluco, and few hours later,
alas! I also left the whole family of giant of Castañalera.

XXXI

And that was the darkest for me! Of me, alone in the fields of muted and stiff the manor house,
castle of my new and patriarchal dominion, in the poor soil of "my greatest." Everything was
wide, all I was left over there and all I came up, as if built in
the air, since he had returned home the family of the old Marmitón.

Because the continued presence of some women as lively and happy as these two, more hectic
when engaged and walked in and out of so many different people in
recent days, could not find me in its true light the void left in
the death house of habitation and venerable owner, who, alive, filled
her whole and was also the bond that tied me to it with the strength
of my commitment, funded primarily in consideration of what he considered
the gift of my company.

Often came to see me and Neluco Cura Don Sabas, and spent long hours with me, still the gathering
of the night very busy and lively; presidial me with the greatest assiduity, and made pluck
up the courage to believe a lot of fun in it, or to let him know ahead of those rustic and good
commentators, ocupábame at times to dispatch or to fix my mail papers and accounts of the
estate, spoke to Facia and I was pleased to see how believing and, under the news brought by the
municipal judge of yore, and my subsequent reflections, forever free of the cross that had so
oppressed and kept assuming at the bottom of a grave the secret of what could be an affront
to his daughter, was the poor women turning to life, and gradually regained the strength of
his spirit exhausted, crying and praying while the hapless man, died
with the black-stained soul intentions after an eventful life and
criminal gozábame also decipher the impenetrable continent of Chisco
certain characters confused himself betrayed in their glee pechazo
gentle and deep from the legacy of the "stack of ounces", and pull
his tongue to know how he was since then in their dealings and friendships
with the family of Toper, which, as I know, has been humanized a lot
with him and even "caught him with eyes memorials" and even with some
hints too suggestive; interesábame Pito Salces really that amurriadote
and suspicious walked fearing that would have changed the good dispositions
of Tona to him since his mother was rich, and even on their own, taking
the poor for contempt astonishment, very natural, which fell monsoon
sets in those days of fat, left home sometimes to vent some ideas
and stretch cramped limbs, but was always waterlogged soil as a sponge
and cold the sun that illuminated the valley, while I mowed the beard
the environment not put out a match and had to go back to my hole
without having dared to fall on stony ground where it wanted to conduct
impulses of my need to socialize with someone who understood me; tramábala
with Chisco later or the first one I put forward, and, finally, even
sought, following the teachings of Neluco bucolic, down to my right,
the brighter, the dark places of those men to find the desired level
and with it the promised pleasure, but even so, I left over endless
hours of solitude and silence in those aged and black moors echoing
the echo of my steps give fever as if under a gloomy vaults dungeon,
and wherever you look, that my heroic efforts to make life bearable
was not there to be anything other than work in prison, even with
the tough, deep and tempting to want to escape.

Be escaped, because he had returned to imponérseme this idea, not the first time going through my
brain felt like a blast, but as an irresistible itch that was falling apart at times the work
of my acclimation, almost nearing completion now. It seemed to drain a truly despicable, but the bodies
left in the air, fall under its own gravity; I felt so down, broken, with the death of my uncle,
the link that bound me over to the house. Admittedly, I left the bonds of commitment and solemnized
many times before so many different people, but it was also true that he had put that commitment
I limit 'as I possibly could, "and that, assuming that it became capable to penetrate the work of
my uncle to work on it, my work would not be continuous or individual hour or even every day, whereas
the tedious reality that was suffocating me continuously Perennial, all the time.

Constantly struggling between these impulses empecatados and dislikes of my consciousness formal
man, there were times when I laughed at my own, seeing reason with the criterion ill-assorted
a schoolboy with his confinement. What things occurred to me to justify a trip, with a promise
to return and intention not to fulfill it!

After sobering up and giving more of my thoughts to consider the value detúveme of which had achieved
good results with the work of my own observations, and example and preaching, more or less directly,
my uncle, Neluco, Mr. de la Torre of Provedaño, mostly, and many others of great rides, and then
I felt ashamed I have thought as to shake the burden of my sorrows.

Placed in this area, soon realized that what I needed at once and with urgency to exit gracefully
from the conflict, was to acquire other bonds to replace what's broken by death, another new
link Tablanca me to join, and not as closely as it was my uncle, to the point, at least he left
the house to be a prison for me.

Well. But this link where to find him? What breed was it? ... Who knows the spaces then walked
to the angry and visionary imagination! In this fast and crazy ride I found no quiet time or
rest, because everything seemed wrong to make a high Respite ... until I found the most singular
of occurrences. But it was even a assumptions on which to conclude the analysis fatigued. As
a result, and with all the scrupulous detail of whom, as I meditate
on that matter as serious as the first time in his life.

I raised thoughts over the barriers craggy valley, and carried him far, far away of Tablanca,
closed my eyes, I went to the parts of memory, and was extracting from it a legion of images, which
I later paraded one by one, ahead of me. When he had spent the last figure of this bizarre procession
returned to the thought the realities of Tablanca montunos ... and I put my hands to his head
as he realizes that has been filling it with nonsense ideas for saving. I turned off the flashlight
of my thoughts and, oh surprise, with the last ray of light I saw her breeze through obfuscated
terms of imagination, a new and unexpected image that seemed to have itself the power to resolve
all the difficulties of conflict. But ... And I ended up making me crosses and to laugh.

Was still laughing when he came Neluco.

- So I like to see you - I said - and not with the degustation of these sad days ago.

- For her return, Neluco friend - I said - if God does the miracle that I ask.

- However, you laugh now ...

- Laughing Rabbit ...

- I do not insist - said the doctor - because I do not want to have
you by reckless, but I assure you, without that fear, more than twice
had asked him in recent days on the grounds of a disappointment that
you could not hide.

Woke up this statement Neluco the idea, not entirely asleep on me, to confess with him as Facia
had pleaded with me.

Could expect much from the advice of your experience, and, ultimately, the relief given in
the crush of departing spirits of the resource them with a good understanding friend.

- Exactly - I said armándome resolution - I had a great desire to have a paragraph with you on
these individuals. So, now or ever.

I closed the door of my cabinet, sentámonos the two with the table between them, and began to
speak as follows:

- You must know, friend Neluco that since returning to the rule of order and silence in this
house after my uncle died and was buried, I do not know where to invest the hours I have plenty
in it ... I seem endless, do not see how to improve them and it scares me the future with a
similar perspective. This is the truth of what happens to me, will I have to your good friend,
and you declare it.

- Why? - I asked the doctor, very quietly, after a silent contemplation
moments.

- For now - I answered - so that you know, then, that, if
any kindly assist me with his authoritative advice.

- What? - Ask
me again with the same serenity as before.

- Well, I like the occurrence,
gee - I cried a little bit by that way of cornering, that looked very
much like a joke rather heavy -.

What is meant here to help a man perishing in the bottom of a cliff?

-
Excuse me - "the doctor - but either I'm not in my right mind, or
the case I quoted for example, is not entirely applicable to your
particular case.

Which is in the bottom of a cliff, can have no other desire than
to go out and get away from him and you, in the situation today is,
you can serve in two ways: helping out it, or go for a test work bearable
and even fun.

Now you tell which of these two extremes is.

- The best seems to you - I said - or both together ... In order to
please you in my case, tell me frankly.

- Well, frankly I say - said
the doctor not to wonder what happens to you.

I expected ... Be clear: Don Celso expected dead and you alone at home, was to it seem bigger,
blacker and bleaker than before, and the time spent on it very long and tiresome. Nothing more
natural in a man of taste, education and you worldly background.

I did not expect it to arrive their disappointments so far that, apparently, has come ...
Well, look you, Don Marco: courtesy or even I encourage you to divert your boredom, get the hell next
to Tablanca; advice that, or I can not read faces or is it more had you to thank me. And do
not give, I am quite sure that if the long run you in the state of
mind that is now, not here again for all the days of his life.

-
Men - said I caught in the middle of right - that's saying a lot.

-
No more and no less than fair - "the doctor - because it is the truth,
and you can not and should not do that, but let's forgotten some promise
and to the solemn occasion which was ratified, because you have nothing
to do in this world that tempts him, and here yes, because there -
and dispense openness - despite his personal merits, it would not
to be one in the bunch of anonymous, and this would play a much more
lucid, not by the glitz of its hierarchy, but by the charitable status
of the position.

 It was not only that she was mistress of everything, including
her own time, but that her father's infinite tenderness made all things soft and sweet to her.
She hated to be scolded, and the slightest roughness of word or tone seemed to her to convey
a rebuke. But he was never rough. She loved to be caressed by those who were dear and near
and close to her, and his manner was always caressing. She often loved, if the truth is to
be spoken, to be idle, and to spend hours with an unread book in her hand under the shade of
the deanery trees, and among the flowers of the deanery garden. The Dean never questioned her
as to those idle hours. But at Cross Hall not a half-hour would be allowed to pass without
enquiry as to its purpose. At Cross Hall there would be no novels,--except those of Miss Edgeworth,
which were sickening to her. She might have all Mudie down to the deanery if she chose to ask
for it. At Cross Hall she would be driven out with the Dowager, Lady Susanna, and Lady Amelia,
for two hours daily, and would have to get out of the carriage at every cottage she came to.
At the deanery there was a pair of ponies, and it was her great delight to drive her father
about the roads outside the city. She sometimes thought that a long sojourn at Cross Hall would
kill her. Would he not be kind to her now, and loving, and would he not come and stay with
her for one or two happy weeks in her father's house? If so, how dearly she would love him;
how good she would be to him; how she would strive to gratify him in all his whims! Then she
thought of Adelaide Houghton and the letter; and she thought also of those subsequent visits
to Berkeley Square. But still she did not in the least believe that he cared for Adelaide Houghton.
It was impossible that he should like a painted, unreal, helmeted creature, who smelt of oils,
and was never unaffected for a moment. At any rate she would never, never throw Adelaide Houghton
in his teeth. If she had been imprudent, so had he; and she would teach him how small errors
ought to be forgiven. But would he come to her, or would he only write? Surely he would come
to her now when there was matter of such vital moment to be discussed between them! Surely
there would be little directions to her given, which should be obeyed,--oh, with such care,
if he would be good to her.

That pernicious groom must have ridden home along the road nearly as quick as the Dean's cob
would carry him for the express purpose of saying that there was no message. When he had been
about ten minutes in the Cross Hall kitchen, he was told that there was no message, and had
trotted off with most unnecessary speed. Mary was with her father when word was brought to
him, saying that there was no message. "Oh, papa, he doesn't care!" she said.

"He will be sure to write," said the Dean, "and he would not allow himself to write in a hurry."

"But why doesn't he come?"

"He ought to come."

"Oh, papa;--if he doesn't care, I shall die."

"Men always care very much."

"But if he has made up his mind to quarrel with me for ever, then he won't care. Why didn't
he send his love?"

"He wouldn't do that by the groom."

"I'd send him mine by a chimney-sweep if there were nobody else." Then the door was opened,
and in half a second she was in her husband's arms. "Oh, George, my darling, my own, I am so
happy. I thought you would come. Oh, my dear!" Then the Dean crept out without a word, and
the husband and the wife were together for hours.

"Do you think she is well," said Lord George to the Dean in the course of the afternoon.

"Well? why shouldn't she be well!"

"In this condition I take it one never quite knows."

"I should say there isn't a young woman in England in better general health. I never knew her
to be ill in my life since she had the measles."

"I thought she seemed flushed."

"No doubt,--at seeing you."

"I suppose she ought to see the doctor."

"See a fiddlestick. If she's not fretted she won't want a doctor till the time comes when the
doctor will be with her whether she wants him or not. There's nothing so bad as coddling. Everybody
knows that now. The great thing is to make her happy."

There came a cloud across Lord George's brow as this was said,--a cloud which he could not
control, though, as he had hurried across the park on horseback, he had made up his mind to
be happy and good-humoured. He certainly had cared very much. He had spoken no word on the
subject to anyone, but he had been very much disappointed when he had been married twelve months
and no hope of an heir had as yet been vouchsafed to him. When his brother had alluded to the
matter, he had rebuked even his brother. He had never ventured to ask a question even of his
wife. But he had been himself aware of his own bitter disappointment. The reading of his wife's
letter had given him a feeling of joy keener than any he had before felt. For a moment he had
been almost triumphant. Of course he would go to her. That distasteful Popenjoy up in London
was sick and ailing; and after all this might be the true Popenjoy who, in coming days, would
re-establish the glory of the family. But, at any rate, she was his wife, and the bairn would
be his bairn. He had been made a happy man, and had determined to enjoy to the full the first
blush of his happiness. But when he was told that she was not to be fretted, that she was to
be made especially happy, and was so told by her father, he did not quite clearly see his way
for the future. Did this mean that he was to give up everything, that he was to confess tacitly
that he had been wrong in even asking his wife to go with him to Cross Hall, and that he was
to be reconciled in all things to the Dean? He was quite ready to take his wife back, to abstain
from accusations against her, to let her be one of the family, but he was as eager as ever
to repudiate the Dean. To the eyes of his mother the Dean was now the most horrible of human
beings, and her eldest born the dearest of sons. After all that he had endured he was again
going to let her live at the old family house, and all those doubts about Popenjoy had, she
thought, been fully satisfied. The Marquis to her thinking was now almost a model Marquis,
and this dear son, this excellent head of the family, had been nearly murdered by the truculent
Dean. Of course the Dean was spoken of at Cross Hall in very bitter terms, and of course those
terms made impression on Lord George. In the first moments of his paternal anxiety he had been
willing to encounter the Dean in order that he might see his wife; but he did not like to be
told by the Dean that his wife ought to be made happy. "I don't know what there is to make
her unhappy," he said, "if she will do her duty."

"That she has always done," said the Dean, "both before her marriage and since."

"I suppose she will come home now," said Lord George.

"I hardly know what home means. Your own home I take it is in Munster Court."

"My own home is at Manor Cross," said Lord George, proudly.

"While that is the residence of Lord Brotherton it is absolutely impossible that she should
go there. Would you take her to the house of a man who has scurrilously maligned her as he
has done?"

"He is not there or likely to be there. Of course she would come to Cross Hall first."

"Do you think that would be wise? You were speaking just now with anxiety as to her condition."

"Of course I am anxious."

"You ought to be at any rate. Do you think, that as she is now she should be subjected to the
cold kindnesses of the ladies of your family?"

"What right have you to call their kindness cold?"

"Ask yourself. You hear what they say. I do not. You must know exactly what has been the effect
in your mother's house of the scene between me and your brother at that hotel. I spurned him
from me with violence because he had maligned your wife. I may expect you to forgive me."

"It was very unfortunate."

"I may feel sure that you as a man must exonerate me from blame in that matter, but I cannot
expect your mother to see it in the same light. I ask you whether they do not regard her as
wayward and unmanageable?"

He paused for a reply; and Lord George found himself obliged to say something. "She should
come and show that she is not wayward or unmanageable."

"But she would be so to them. Without meaning it they would torment her, and she would be miserable.
Do you not know that it would be so?" 

Slandered envy the young marquise de Montefrio, for no other reason than to be her rich and
famous. Raised with the utmost devotion, shy and quiet, without a care in costumes and headgear,
fashion and without any self-assurance in his manner and conversation, the marquise was declared sick
unjustly stupid and ugly. It was neither the one nor the other. Do not be ashamed, but it could
boast who were to have it for you. And verily was then in this town and court of Madrid, quite
a few ladies of high crest, whose talents and whose beauty were much lower than those of the
marquise, but completed with the carefree lack or scarcity of such high qualities and great passion
instilled a thousand were heroines amorous adventures.

Marriage, a Christian considered assumes no love story, however sensitive and clean it. It
is rather a contract, purified, sanctified and sanctioned by religion, whose primary purpose is
the foundation of families, children education and conservation lineages. So fulfill a duty to
marry and enter religion. This proves that can the righteous and pious person to serve God in
any state. Well understood Don Jacinto. Worthy of his family and the family arranged for the wedding
marquise both. Hardly saw them and barely spoke three or four times, enough to recognize there
was no reason for them to be repugnant to each other, but on the contrary, mutual satisfaction, the
smugness of having to consort with a person of noble presence and full belief in the immaculate
reputation of that person, all coincided with the convenience of interests and views which were in
the projected marriage, whose concerts intervened more than anyone the father Athanasius.

In sum, Don Jacinto marquise married and poor gentleman who was transformed
into rich gentleman called, but somehow he could still be called poor
in spirit, possessed wealth as if they possessed, took care of his
wife's considerable property, more like jealous administrator as the
owner and master of them, since his death, which was not late, because
died at thirteen years after the wedding, so had increased the flow
of home with his tact and economy, that of the marital property that
he could stop playing and left about three thousand ducats a year
to each of her four children.

I who write these notes, I am the youngest of them. I say nothing of me because I deserve anything;
but I will say of my three brothers who all are very handsome, understanding and capacity for
the profession still, and my sister is the charm and gala of the court, who ponder and praise
all for his gentle and honest treatment, by his intelligence and beauty, honoring and glorifying
and the noble house as head and mother came years ago

.
 But Mr. Knox was saying that she is going to move back at once
to the old house. It's very kind of his lordship, I'm sure, to let bygones be bygones." Lord
George could only say that nothing was as yet settled, but that Mr. Price would be, of course,
welcome to Cross Hall, should the family go back to Manor Cross.

This took place about the 10th of June, and for a fortnight after that no change took place
in any of their circumstances. Lady Alice Holdenough called upon Lady George, and, with her
husband, dined at the deanery; but Mary saw nothing else of any of the ladies of the family.
No letter came from either of her sisters-in-law congratulating her as to her new hopes, and
the Manor Cross carriage never stopped at the Dean's door. The sisters came to see Lady Alice,
who lived also in the Close, but they never even asked for Lady George. All this made the Dean
very angry, so that he declared that his daughter should under no circumstances be the first
to give way. As she had not offended, she should never be driven to ask for pardon. During
this time Lord George more than once saw his wife, but he had no further interview with the Dean.

CHAPTER XLVI.

LADY SARAH'S MISSION.

Towards the end of June the family at Cross Hall were in great perturbation. In the first place
it had been now settled that they were to go back to the great house early in July. This might
have been a source of unalloyed gratification. The old Marchioness had been made very unhappy
by the change to Cross Hall, and had persisted in calling her new home a wretched farmhouse.
Both Lady Susanna and Lady Amelia were quite alive to the advantages of the great mansion.
Lord George had felt that his position in the county had been very much injured by recent events.
This might partly have come from his residence in London; but had, no doubt, been chiefly owing
to the loss of influence arising from the late migration. He was glad enough to go back again.
But Lady Sarah was strongly opposed to the new movement. "I don't think that mamma should be
made liable to be turned out again," she had said to her brother and sisters.

"But mamma is particularly anxious to go," Amelia had replied.

"You can't expect mamma to think correctly about Brotherton," said Lady Sarah. "He is vicious
and fickle, and I do not like to feel that any of us should be in his power." But Lady Sarah,
who had never been on good terms with her elder brother, was overruled, and everybody knew
that in July the family was to return to Manor Cross.

Then there came tidings from London,--unauthorised tidings, and, one may say, undignified tidings,--but
still tidings which were received with interest. Mrs. Toff had connections with Scumberg's,
and heard through these connections that things at Scumberg's were not going on in a happy
way. Mrs. Toff's correspondent declared that the Marquis had hardly been out of his bed since
he had been knocked into the fireplace. Mrs. Toff, who had never loved the Dean and had never
approved of that alliance, perhaps made the most of this. But the report, which was first made
to the Dowager herself, caused very great uneasiness. The old lady said that she must go up
to London herself to nurse her son. Then a letter was written by Lady Amelia to her brother,
asking for true information. This was the answer which Lady Amelia received;--

     "DEAR A.,--I'm pretty well, thank you. Don't trouble yourselves.
     Yours, B."

"I'm sure he's dying," said the Marchioness, "and he's too noble-hearted to speak of his sufferings."
Nevertheless she felt that she did not dare to go up to Scumberg's just at present.

Then there came further tidings. Mrs. Toff was told that the Italian Marchioness had gone away,
and had taken Popenjoy with her. There was not anything necessarily singular in this. When
a gentleman is going abroad with his family, he and his family need not as a matter of course
travel together. Lord Brotherton had declared his purpose of returning to Italy, and there
could be no reason why his wife, with the nurses and the august Popenjoy, should not go before
him. It was just such an arrangement as such a man as Lord Brotherton would certainly make.
But Mrs. Toff was sure that there was more in it than this. The Italian Marchioness had gone
off very suddenly. There had been no grand packing up;--but there had been some very angry
words. And Popenjoy, when he was taken away, was supposed to be in a very poor condition of
health. All this created renewed doubts in the mind of Lord George, or rather, perhaps, renewed
hopes. Perhaps, after all, Popenjoy was not Popenjoy. And even if he were, it seemed that everyone
concurred in thinking that the poor boy would die. Surely the Marquis would not have allowed
a sick child to be carried away by an indiscreet Italian mother if he cared much for the sick
child. But then Lord George had no real knowledge of these transactions. All this had come
through Mrs. Toff, and he was hardly able to rely upon Mrs. Toff. Could he have communicated
with the Dean, the Dean would soon have found out the truth. The Dean would have flown up to
London and have known all about it in a couple of hours; but Lord George was not active and
clever as the Dean.

Then he wrote a letter to his brother;--as follows;--

     "MY DEAR BROTHERTON,--We have heard through Mr. Knox that you wish
     us to move to Manor Cross at once, and we are preparing to do so.
     It is very kind of you to let us have the house, as Cross Hall is
     not all that my mother likes, and as there would hardly be room
     for us should my wife have children. I ought perhaps to have told
     you sooner that she is in the family way. We hear too that you are
     thinking of starting for Italy very soon, and that the Marchioness
     and Popenjoy have already gone. Would it suit you to tell us
     something of your future plans? It is not that I want to be
     inquisitive, but that I should like to know with reference to your
     comfort and our own whether you think that you will be back at
     Manor Cross next year. Of course we should be very sorry to be in
     your way, but we should not like to give up Cross Hall till we
     know that it will not be wanted again.

     "I hope you are getting better. I could of course come up to town
     at a moment's notice, if you wished to see me.

     "Yours affectionately,

     "GEORGE GERMAIN." 

D. Jacinto de la Mota was never hypocritical or false in their devotions, or the austerity of
his life. Badly educated, very correct in everything and guided by the holy fear of God, fulfilled
their duties without the slightest trace of boasting. And not troubled them in mocking it
could make the libertines, calculated either never worldly honor and profit his modesty and
other virtues is at risk. When freed from the bonds that the Duke de Campoverde and friends laid
him, using Maria Antonia Fernandez, alias Wow, did what he did for his delicacy of feeling
and aversion to all sensual rudeness, no thought of winning reputation.

Caramba was so convinced of the sincerity of D. Jacinto and so in love with the sweet words
with which he mitigated the bitterness of his contempt, that the vicious itch that she went to
seduce him, became a true and deep passion of love.

At that time, the sculptor D. Manuel Alvarez, who frequently visited the Duke of Campoverde, heard
tell it what had happened between D. Jacinto and the Boy, and inspired by that event, made
the tiny image of San Vicente, putting on the face of D. Jacinto,
who happened to portray accurately from memory.

Maria Antonia had to know that D. Fernández Manuel Alvarez had finished
work so pretty and decided to buy it at any cost to himself, as did
in fact well to pagándosela sculptor, who would not and could not
refuse.

The Boy, although love sublimely D. Jacinto, is still far from being developed. As not a few women
adventurous and very broken life was full of extravagant superstitions. Thought she loved and
loved to frenzy D. Jacinto and aspired to be mistress of it by any means. His love sometimes
acquired the status of hatred and sometimes it looked like self-denial
and sacrifice.

The Boy, and wanted to kill him because she wanted to die for his sake, but anyway longed to
be loved.

She consulted a famous gypsy witch, who was then in Madrid, and this gypsy sold you the gold-handled
puñalito that nailed him in the heart of the effigy, as Caramba did. Not that won her the living
and true heart of D. Jacinto.

And move little later, his passions and disappointments, and a very eloquent sermon he heard
by chance Father Athanasius, in the Capuchin convent, left the shabby life that until then had
continued and turned to God earnestly.

Soon reached the ears of D. Jacinto new conversion as exemplary and miraculous, and from birth
to the greatest lack in your life that made D. Jacinto, stimulated, no doubt, by the demon of
pride, which the devil had to rely on feelings, most others, full of charity and mercy.

Was pride in not being afraid of falling into temptation and daring
to brave the hazards, and was admiring the merciful love in this sudden
change sinful woman in acute pain and pity tremendous for the conversion
had been threatened, and the irresistible sympathy which made defeat,
going to deal with it things of the spirit and pure friendship and
welcome him consolation.

Don Jacinto hallucinated in such a way that even for a moment thought that it sinned, but one day
it spoke to Father Athanasius, his confessor, and spoke, not as revealing
a fault own, but to weigh the penitent under the Caramba and treat
the father Athanasius the known and admired.

So when Father Athanasius was painted in the eyes of his soul and
colorfully, the awful danger of falling into mortal sin that he and
Maria Antonia Fernandez were exposed, and resolutely and strictly
forbade him to come back to visit and deal with it.

Jacinto obeyed, not without a fight vigorously and painfully against
friendship and against pure sympathy Maria Antonia Fernandez had inspired.
 But then Mary had been taken to London,
and had been thrown into temptation, and was very young. Lady Sarah knew that her own life
was colourless, and was contented. But she could understand that women differently situated
should not like a colourless existence. She had seen Adelaide Houghton and her sister-in-law
together, and had known that her brother's lot had fallen in much the better place, and, to
her, any separation between those whom God had bound together was shocking and wicked. Lady
Susanna was louder and less just. She did not believe that Mary had done anything to merit
expulsion from the family; but she did think that her return to it should be accompanied by
sackcloth and ashes. Mary had been pert to her, and she was not prone to forgive. Lady Alice
had no opinion,--could say nothing about it; but would be happy if, by her services, she could
assuage matters.

"Does she ever talk of him," Lady Susanna asked.

"Not to me; I don't think she dares. But whenever he goes there she is delighted to see him."

"He has not been for the last ten days," said Lady Sarah.

"I don't think he will ever go again,--unless it be to fetch her," said Lady Susanna. "I don't
see how he can keep on going there, when she won't do as he bids her. I never heard of such
a thing! Why should she choose to live with her father when she is his wife? I can't understand
it at all."

"There has been some provocation," said Lady Sarah.

"What provocation? I don't know of any. Just to please her fancy, George had to take a house
in London, and live there against his own wishes."

"It was natural that she should go to the deanery for a few days; but when she was there no
one went to see her."

"Why did she not come here first?" said Lady Susanna. "Why did she take upon herself to say
where she would go, instead of leaving it to her husband. Of course it was the Dean. How can
any man be expected to endure that his wife should be governed by her father instead of by
himself? I think George has been very forbearing."

"You have hardly told the whole story," said Lady Sarah. "Nor do I wish to tell it. Things
were said which never should have been spoken. If you will have me, Alice, I will go to Brotherton
for a day or two, and I will then go and see her."

And so it was arranged. No one in the house was told of the new plan, Lady Susanna having with
difficulty been brought to promise silence. Lady Sarah's visit was of course announced, and
that alone created great surprise, as Lady Sarah very rarely left home. The Marchioness had
two or three floods of tears over it, and suggested that the carriage would be wanted for the
entire day. This evil, however, was altogether escaped, as Lady Alice had a carriage of her
own. "I'm sure I don't know who is to look after Mrs. Green," said the Marchioness. Mrs. Green
was an old woman of ninety who was supported by Germain charity and was visited almost daily
by Lady Sarah. But Lady Amelia promised that she would undertake Mrs. Green. "Of course I'm
nobody," said the Marchioness. Mrs. Toff and all who knew the family were sure that the Marchioness
would, in truth, enjoy her temporary freedom from her elder daughter's control.

Whatever might have been Lord George's suspicion, he said nothing about it. It had not been
by agreement with him that the ladies of the family had abstained from calling on his wife.
He had expressed himself in very angry terms as to the Dean's misconduct in keeping her in
Brotherton, and in his wrath had said more than once that he would never speak to the Dean
again. He had not asked any one to go there; but neither had he asked them not to do so. In
certain of his moods he was indignant with his sisters for their treatment of his wife; and
then again he would say to himself that it was impossible that they should go into the Dean's
house after what the Dean had done. Now, when he heard that his eldest sister was going to
the Close, he said not a word.

On the day of her arrival Lady Sarah knocked at the deanery door alone. Up to this moment she
had never put her foot in the house. Before the marriage she had known the Dean but slightly,
and the visiting to be done by the family very rarely fell to her share. The streets of Brotherton
were almost strange to her, so little was she given to leave the sphere of her own duties.
In the hall, at the door of his study, she met the Dean. He was so surprised that he hardly
knew how to greet her. "I am come to call upon Mary," said Lady Sarah, very brusquely.

"Better late than never," said the Dean, with a smile.

"I hope so," said Lady Sarah, very solemnly. "I hope that I am not doing that which ought not
to be done. 

Sufficient prevention look without all this, even without other evidence, to understand the Marquis
and Marchioness really loved, because the link cold and mere compliance a duty, not born ever so
lucid and generous offspring.

This is assured, I will declare and explain here what was the conduct of the Marquis in his relations
Maria Antonia Fernandez, and how this behavior, although in some points worthy of censure, only in
a time of embarrassing loss did not stop and reconciled with respect to the actual and holy love which
he dedicated to his wife, the Marchioness. Moreover, the Marquis was punished because of severely
in the sky, with the Marquis himself, with his deep remorse and secret
Despite an instrument of that punishment.

I would greatly embittered and tormented by the insulting phrase,
fair and unfair to him with the Marchioness Heck with that he threw
out of his house but he pricked and deeper wound made in his heart
hurt a letter to him from the Gee, sorry for the injuries.

The Gee wrote that letter shortly before his death, and also bequeathed the San Vicente Ferrer
size, I confided everything to Father Athanasius.

This felt appropriate that the Marquis had News of the letter, but was not informed and he kept
in his papers. Father Athanasius I consented to read and that it sacase exact copy here transfer.

"Illustrious
Marquis, whom I dare not call a friend: I meet a duty awareness by addressing your honor, to
ask forgiveness of the many mistakes I have made in damage. I was even remotely right to imagine
that the charitable visits your honor me did, after my conversion, more apparent than real,
he linked up with me, no style, and they did an obligation to devote
himself to me with exclusive and unique friendship and be my constant
companion in penance, when he never was in sin.

Lady Sarah did not, in truth, understand this. "When he gave you to be married," she said,
"of course he knew that you must go away from him and live with your husband. A father does
not expect a married daughter to stay in his own house."

"But he expects to be able to go to hers. He does not expect to be quarrelled with by everybody.
If I were to go to Manor Cross, papa couldn't even come and see me."

"I think he could."

"You don't know papa if you fancy he would go into any house in which he was not welcome. Of
course I know that you have all quarrelled with him. You think because he beat the Marquis
up in London that he oughtn't ever to be spoken to again. But I love him for what he did more
dearly than ever. He did it for my sake. He was defending me, and defending George. I have
done nothing wrong. If it is only for George's sake, I will never admit that I have deserved
to be treated in this way. None of you have come to see me before, since I came back from London,
and now George doesn't come."

"We should all have been kind to you if you had come to us first."

"Yes; and then I should never have been allowed to be here at all. Let George come and stay
here, if it is only for two days, and be kind to papa, and then I will go with him to Manor Cross." 

When Maria Antonia was freed from the presence of D. Jacinto, remained motionless and standing
for few moments, then burst into insane laughter and nervous laughter, and decomposed, and Finally,
onto the floor, writhing, shedding a flood of tears and babbling between teeth for me, a sinner.

Thereafter
did not return to sin Maria Antonia, in thought or in action.

Persisted in your prayers, redoubled his vigils, fasting and mortification and made a few months
later, and happy early transition to a better life.

THE SAN VICENTE FERRER SIZE

(Palinodia)

In the chapel of the beautiful villa which has the Marquis de Montefico near Valencia, is a
devout and tiny image of San Vicente Ferrer, carved in wood, well painted later. Should this
work of the illustrious sculptor D. Manuel Alvarez, whom his contemporaries Greek called for
their ability to mimic the large models Phidias Art let's antiquity. Elegant decoration of
the Prado is still the source of the Apollo and Four Seasons, sculptor's work above, but showed
more talent and inspiration in San Vicente de I'm talking about and that everybody knows. The
Saint is represented very young yet. His head is beautiful and has a noble expression of triumphant
joy, as if she had to achieve a great victory. In the face of this portrait, high all over
with just over twenty cm, it seems that Alvarez has sought to play the proud joy of Apollo
Belvedere, after having killed with his arrows to the monstrous serpent, although Christian
humility and quiet pride restrains the joy of the Holy consideration he has not defeated by
his own merit but by grace and favor of heaven. Also shows in the face of a shameful blush Santo,
where it feels that the victory who has won has been in spiritual combat against the third enemy
of the soul, as regards Rivadeneira Father, speaking of that insolent female who wanted to try
and perform to Santo and gave occasion for calling him that did not burn in the fire and for
he was compared to the three youths in the furnace of Babylon, of
whom Daniel speaks prophet.

The effigy, in short, about owning remarkable artistic worth, is worthy of consideration causes
not common. In the chest, under which the site must be the heart leads puñalito driven a strong
steel and razor-sharp tip. All of it, the less the grip of gold has penetrated the wood, powered
by sacrilegious hands. And mind the pious people, yet earlier this century, was made in that
likeness a singular miracle. All year on September 8, the day of the Nativity of the Virgin
Our Lady, a droplet red like blood, flowing from his wound.

No wonder that the miracle is not do today, because they deserve to see those who lack faith.

Since this is, the beautiful statue attracts much attention, especially when it comes to knowing
that among the documents in the file of the Marquis is a letter of Don Melchor de la Mota,
uncle of the present Marquis and fourth son of the grandfather of
the latter, D. Jacinto, which tells the story of the picture and explains
the success of the wound that has been in chest.

Mary made no promise that she would do even this as Lady Sarah took her leave; but she did
at once consult her father. "Of course you can go if you like it, dearest."

"But you!"

"Never mind me. I am thinking only of you. They will be different to you now that they think
you will be the mother of the heir."

"Would you take me, and stay there, for one night?"

"I don't think I could do that, dear. I do not consider that I have been exactly asked."

"But if they will ask you?"

"I cannot ask to be asked. To tell the truth I am not at all anxious to be entertained at Manor
Cross. They would always be thinking of that fireplace into which the Marquis fell."

The difficulty was very great and Mary could not see her way through it. She did not go to
Dr. Holdenough's house that afternoon, but wrote a very short note to Lady Sarah begging that
George might come over and talk to her.

CHAPTER XLVII.

"THAT YOUNG FELLOW IN THERE."

A day or two after this Lord George did call at the deanery, but stayed there only for a minute
or two, and on that occasion did not even speak of Mary's return to Manor Cross. He was considerably
flurried, and showed his wife the letter which had caused his excitement. It was from his brother,
and like most of the Marquis's letters was very short.

"I think you had better come up and see me. I'm not very well. B." That was the entire letter,
and he was now on his way to London.

"Do you think it is much, George?"

"He would not write like that unless he were really ill. He has never recovered from the results
of that--accident."

Then it occurred to Mary that if the Marquis were to die, and Popenjoy were to die, she would
at once be the Marchioness of Brotherton, and that people would say that her father had raised
her to the title by--killing the late lord. And it would be so. There was something so horrible
in this that she trembled as she thought of it. "Oh, George!"

"It is very--very sad."

"It was his fault; wasn't it? I would give all the world that he were well; but it was his
fault." Lord George was silent. "Oh, George, dear George, acknowledge that. Was it not so?
Do you not think so? Could papa stand by and hear him call me such names as that? Could you
have done so?"

"A man should not be killed for an angry word."

"Papa did not mean to kill him!"

"I can never be reconciled to the man who has taken the life of my brother."

"Do you love your brother better than me?"

"You and your father are not one."

"If this is to be said of him I will always be one with papa. He did it for my sake and for
yours. If they send him to prison I will go with him. George, tell the truth about it."

"I always tell the truth," he said angrily.

"Did he not do right to protect his girl's name? I will never leave him now; never. If everybody
is against him, I will never leave him."

No good was to be got from the interview. Whatever progress Lady Sarah may have made was altogether
undone by the husband's sympathy for his injured brother. Mary declared to herself that if
there must be two sides, if there must be a real quarrel, she could never be happy again, but
that she certainly would not now desert her father. Then she was left alone. Ah, what would
happen if the man were to die. Would any woman ever have risen to high rank in so miserable
a manner! In her tumult of feelings she told her father everything, and was astonished by his
equanimity. "It may be so," he said, "and if so, there will be considerable inconvenience."

"Inconvenience, papa!"

"There will be a coroner's inquest, and perhaps some kind of trial. But when the truth comes
out no English jury will condemn me."

"Who will tell the truth, papa?"

The Dean knew it all, and was well aware that there would be no one to tell the truth on his
behalf,--no one to tell it in such guise that a jury would be entitled to accept the telling
as evidence. A verdict of manslaughter with punishment, at the discretion of the judge, would
be the probable result. But the Dean did not choose to add to his daughter's discomfort by
explaining this. "The chances are that this wretched man is dying. No doubt his health is bad.
How should the health of such a man be good? But had he been so hurt as to die from it, the
doctor would have found something out long since. He may be dying, but he is not dying from
what I did to him." The Dean was disturbed, but in his perturbation he remembered that if the
man were to die there would be nothing but that little alien Popenjoy between his daughter
and the title.

Lord George hurried up to town, and took a room for himself at an hotel in Jermyn Street. He
would not go to Scumberg's, as he did not wish to mix his private life with that of his brother.
That afternoon he went across, and was told that his brother would see him at three o'clock
the next day. Then he interrogated Mrs. Walker as to his brother's condition. Mrs. Walker knew
nothing about it, except that the Marquis lay in bed during the most of his time, and that
Dr. Pullbody was there every day. Now Dr. Pullbody was an eminent physician, and had the Marquis
been dying from an injury in his back an eminent surgeon would have been required. Lord George
dined at his club on a mutton chop and a half a pint of sherry, and then found himself terribly
dull. What could he do with himself? Whither could he betake himself? So he walked across Piccadilly
and went to the old house in Berkeley Square.

He had certainly become very sick of the woman there. He had discussed the matter with himself
and had found out that he did not care one straw for the woman. He had acknowledged to himself
that she was a flirt, a mass of affectation, and a liar. And yet he went to her house. She
would be soft to him and would flatter him, and the woman would trouble herself to do so. She
would make him welcome, and in spite of his manifest neglect would try, for the hour, to make
him comfortable.

He was shown up into the drawing-room and there he found Jack De Baron, Guss Mildmay;--and
Mr. Houghton, fast asleep. The host was wakened up to bid him welcome, but was soon slumbering
again. De Baron and Guss Mildmay had been playing bagatelle,--or flirting in the back drawing-room,
and after a word or two returned to their game. "Ill is he?" said Mrs. Houghton, speaking of
the Marquis, "I suppose he has never recovered from that terrible blow."

"I have not seen him yet, but I am told that Dr. Pullbody is with him."

"What a tragedy,--if anything should happen! She has gone away; has she not."

"I do not know. I did not ask."

"I think she has gone, and that she has taken the child with her; a poor puny thing. I made
Houghton go there to enquire, and he saw the child. I hear from my father that we are to congratulate
you."

"Things are too sad for congratulation."

"It is horrible; is it not? And Mary is with her father."

"Yes, she's at the deanery."

"Is that right?--when all this is going on?"

"I don't think anything is right," he said, gloomily. Carmelo himself had to inform the order.

Isidro heard no more. Nelida beckoning him to leave. In their enthusiasm for the popular reception,
the girl experienced a feeling of contempt and disgust towards those people. He saw them suddenly
as if they brought rosy veils torn between them and their eyes. The men seemed dirty and threatening
a hunger. Women with a bestial or frankly envious humility, was less than the household that
served. Thought he heard below his back rubbing insolent touching of bold curiosity masked by the agglomeration.
Even imagined felt in the innermost secrets of your body tingle of bloodthirsty invaders,
eager to be fed with new flesh and rich, maybe they had just left the shoes of those gossips.

-
Come on - he said with anguish and fear.

And climbed up the ladder, regardless of the pleasure this time providing a large the public
with the divine spectacle of their skirts tucked.

By mid-afternoon it began to accentuate the movement of the ship. The soft pitch fore and aft
who had become accustomed to all that went unnoticed, as a necessary move for life equal to the
breathing became more violent by the minute. The sun descending was veiled by a vapor barrier,
the light was gray, like that of an afternoon winter, the sea, deep blue, folded in long undulations.
A cool breeze and violent that seemed to herald the storm, he run to the apprentices to pick
up the sheets and the thick glass of the balconies with bow, leaving
warm this part of the ride.

"I should be very sorry to give him cause," said Lord George.

"What's that you say?" Poor Lord George had simply been awkward, having intended no severity.
"Have you given him no cause?"

"I meant that I should be sorry to trouble him."

"Ah--h! That is a different thing. If husbands would only be complaisant, how much nicer it
would be for everybody." Then there was a pause. "You do love me, George?" There was a beautiful
moon that was bright through the green foliage, and there was a smell of sweet exotics, and
the garden of the Square was mysteriously pretty as it lay below them in the moonlight. He
stood silent, making no immediate answer to this appeal. He was in truth plucking up his courage
for a great effort. "Say that you love me. After all that is passed you must love me." Still
he was silent. "George, will you not speak?"

"Yes; I will speak."

"Well, sir!"

"I do not love you."

"What! But you are laughing at me. You have some scheme or some plot going on."

"I have nothing going on. It is better to say it. I love my wife."

"Psha! love her;--yes, as you would a doll or any pretty plaything. I loved her too till she
took it into her stupid head to quarrel with me. I don't grudge her such love as that. She
is a child."

It occurred to Lord George at the moment that his wife had certainly more than an infantine
will of her own. "You don't know her," he said.

"And now, after all, you tell me to my face that you do not love me! Why have you sworn so
often that you did?" He hadn't sworn it often. He had never sworn it at all since she had rejected
him. He had been induced to admit a passion in the most meagre terms. "Do you own yourself
to be false?" she asked.

"I am true to my wife."

"Your wife! One would think you were the curate of the parish. And is that to be all?"

"Yes, Mrs. Houghton; that had better be all."

"Then why did you come here? Why are you here now?" She had not expected such courage from
him, and almost thought more of him now than she had ever thought before. "How dare you come
to this house at all?"

"Perhaps I should not have come."

"And I am nothing to you?" she asked in her most plaintive accents. "After all those scenes
at Manor Cross you can think of me with indifference?" There had been no scenes, and as she
spoke he shook his head, intending to disclaim them. "Then go!" How was he to go? Was he to
wake Mr. Houghton? Was he to disturb that other loving couple? Was he to say no word of farewell
to her? "Oh, stay," she added, "and unsay it all--unsay it all and give no reason, and it shall
be as though it were never said." [29] Medusa, one of the three Gorgons. At first it was very beautiful and had a hair magnificent,
but, having offended the goddess Minerva, it irritated her hair changed in frightening snakes.
(N. of E.)

[30] The relationship that follows we almost verbatim from a weekly
to be published in Havana in 1830, titled Fashion.

(N. A.)

[31] Juan Bautista Vermay (1784-1833), French painter who came to Cuba to restore some pictures of
the Cathedral of Havana. Protected by Bishop Sword, Captain General
Vives and other influential people, was established in Havana. He
was the founder and first director Academy of San Alejandro. She was
a very devil in her wickedness. He started as though he had been stung, and rushed inside for
his hat. "Halloa, Germain, are you going?" said the man of the house, rousing himself for the
moment.

"Yes, I am going. Where did I leave my hat?"

"You put it on the piano," said Mrs. Houghton in her mildest voice, standing at the window.
Then he seized his hat and went off. "What a very stupid man he is," she said, as she entered
the room.

"A very good sort of fellow," said Mr. Houghton.

"He's a gentleman all round," said Jack De Baron. Jack knew pretty well how the land lay and
could guess what had occurred.

"I am not so sure of that," said the lady. "If he were a gentleman as you say all round, he
would not be so much afraid of his elder brother. He has come up to town now merely because
Brotherton sent to him, and when he went to Scumberg's the Marquis would not see him. He is
just like his sisters,--priggish, punctilious and timid."

"He has said something nasty to you," remarked her husband, "or you would not speak of him
like that."

She had certainly said something very nasty to him. As he returned to his club he kept on repeating
to himself her last words;--"He loves your darling wife." Into what a mass of trouble had he
not fallen through the Dean's determination that his daughter should live in London! He was
told on all sides that this man was in love with his wife, and he knew,--he had so much evidence
for knowing,--that his wife liked the man. My mother, who was discreet and quiet, or
did not know or pretended not to know the San Vicente but the name of the author, his merit as
an object art and the immediate source from which he came across. Plenty of well recognized,
and not concealed, that the artist had taken to model their beautiful and noble Holy Face the Marquis,
her husband, and had portrayed with astonishing fidelity.

In several conversations I had with Father Athanasius, very old and that I believed and wanted
much, I came to understand and remake in my mind the whole history of the image and how much
it concerns. And it's funny and does not prejudice, but rather in
honor of my father I'll leave it written down in our house file. When he kissed her her face would glow with pleasure. Her voice
was music to him; her least touch was joy. There was a freshness about the very things which
she wore which pervaded his senses. There was a homeliness about her beauty which made her
more lovely in her own room than when dressed for balls and parties. And yet he had heard it
said that when dressed she was declared to be the most lovely woman that had come to London
that season. And now she was about to become the mother of his child. He was thoroughly in
love with his wife. And yet he was told that his wife was "Jack De Baron's darling!"

CHAPTER XLVIII.

THE MARQUIS MAKES A PROPOSITION.

