And De Thou quitted him to rejoin the Captain.  He had said all this in the gentlest of voices
with unalterable coolness, and even with somewhat of an abstracted manner.

The little Abbe squeezed his hand with warm satisfaction, and continued his search.

He did not so easily effect an agreement with the young lords to whom he addressed himself;
for they knew him better than did De Thou, and when they saw him coming they tried to avoid
him, or laughed at him openly, and would not promise to serve him.

"Ah, Abbe! there you are hunting again; I'll swear it's a second you want," said the Duc de
Beaufort.

"And I wager," added M. de la Rochefoucauld, "that it's against one of the Cardinal-Duke's people."

"You are both right, gentlemen; but since when have you laughed at affairs of honor?"

"The saints forbid I should," said M. de Beaufort.  "Men of the sword like us ever reverence
tierce, quarte, and octave; but as for the folds of the cassock, I know nothing of them."

"Pardieu!  Monsieur, you know well enough that it does not embarrass my wrist, as I will prove
to him who chooses; as to the gown itself, I should like to throw it into the gutter."

"Is it to tear it that you fight so often?"  asked La Rochefoucauld. "But remember, my dear
Abbe, that you yourself are within it."

Gondi turned to look at the clock, wishing to lose no more time in such sorry jests; but he
had no better success elsewhere.  Having stopped two gentlemen in the service of the young
Queen, whom he thought ill-affected toward the Cardinal, and consequently glad to measure weapons
with his creatures, one of them said to him very gravely:

"Monsieur de Gondi, you know what has just happened; the King has said aloud, 'Whether our
imperious Cardinal wishes it or not, the widow of Henri le Grand shall no longer remain in
exile.'  Imperious!  the King never before said anything so strong as that, Monsieur l'Abbe,
mark that. Imperious!  it is open disgrace.  Certainly no one will dare to speak to him; no
doubt he will quit the court this very day."

"I have heard this, Monsieur, but I have an affair--"

"It is lucky for you he stopped short in the middle of your career."

"An affair of honor--"

"Whereas Mazarin is quite a friend of yours."

"But will you, or will you not, listen to me?"

"Yes, a friend indeed!  your adventures are always uppermost in his thoughts.  Your fine duel
with Monsieur de Coutenan about the pretty little pin-maker,--he even spoke of it to the King.
Adieu, my dear Abbe, we are in great haste; adieu, adieu!"  And, taking his friend's arm, the
young mocker, without listening to another word, walked rapidly down the gallery and disappeared
in the throng.

The poor Abbe was much mortified at being able to get only one second, and was watching sadly
the passing of the hour and of the crowd, when he perceived a young gentleman whom he did not
know, seated at a table, leaning on his elbow with a pensive air; he wore mourning which indicated
no connection with any great house or party, and appeared to await, without any impatience,
the time for attending the King, looking with a heedless air at those who surrounded him, and
seeming not to notice or to know any of them.

Gondi looked at him a moment, and accosted him without hesitation:

"Monsieur, I have not the honor of your acquaintance, but a fencing-party can never be unpleasant
to a man of honor; and if you will be my second, in a quarter of an hour we shall be on the
ground.  I am Paul de Gondi; and I have challenged Monsieur de Launay, one of the Cardinal's
clique, but in other respects a very gallant fellow."

The unknown, apparently not at all surprised at this address, replied, without changing his
attitude:  "And who are his seconds?"

"Faith, I don't know; but what matters it who serves him?  We stand no worse with our friends
for having exchanged a thrust with them."

The stranger smiled nonchalantly, paused for an instant to pass his hand through his long chestnut
hair, and then said, looking idly at a large, round watch which hung at his waist:

"Well, Monsieur, as I have nothing better to do, and as I have no friends here, I am with you;
it will pass the time as well as anything else."

And, taking his large, black-plumed hat from the table, he followed the warlike Abbe, who went
quickly before him, often running back to hasten him on, like a child running before his father,
or a puppy that goes backward and forward twenty times before it gets to the end of a street.

Meanwhile, two ushers, attired in the royal livery, opened the great curtains which separated
the gallery from the King's tent, and silence reigned.  The courtiers began to enter slowly,
and in succession, the temporary dwelling of the Prince.  He received them all gracefully,
and was the first to meet the view of each person introduced.

Before a very small table surrounded with gilt armchairs stood Louis XIII, encircled by the
great officers of the crown.  His dress was very elegant: a kind of fawn-colored vest, with
open sleeves, ornamented with shoulder-knots and blue ribbons, covered him down to the waist.
Wide breeches reached to the knee, and the yellow-and-red striped stuff of which they were
made was ornamented below with blue ribbons.  His riding- boots, reaching hardly more than
three inches above the ankle, were turned over, showing so lavish a lining of lace that they
seemed to hold it as a vase holds flowers.  A small mantle of blue velvet, on which was embroidered
the cross of the Holy Ghost, covered the King's left arm, which rested on the hilt of his sword.

His head was uncovered, and his pale and noble face was distinctly visible, lighted by the
sun, which penetrated through the top of the tent.  The small, pointed beard then worn augmented
the appearance of thinness in his face, while it added to its melancholy expression.  By his
lofty brow, his classic profile, his aquiline nose, he was at once recognized as a prince of
the great race of Bourbon.  He had all the characteristic traits of his ancestors except their
penetrating glance; his eyes seemed red from weeping, and veiled with a perpetual drowsiness;
and the weakness of his vision gave him a somewhat vacant look.

He called around him, and was attentive to, the greatest enemies of the Cardinal, whom he expected
every moment; and, balancing himself with one foot over the other, an hereditary habit of his
family, he spoke quickly, but pausing from time to time to make a gracious inclination of the
head, or a gesture of the hand, to those who passed before him with low reverences.

The court had been thus paying its respects to the King for two hours before the Cardinal appeared;
the whole court stood in close ranks behind the Prince, and in the long galleries which extended
from his tent. Already longer intervals elapsed between the names of the courtiers who were
announced.

"Shall we not see our cousin the Cardinal?"  said the King, turning, and looking at Montresor,
one of Monsieur's gentlemen, as if to encourage him to answer.

"He is said to be very ill just now, Sire," was the answer.

"And yet I do not see how any but your Majesty can cure him," said the Duc de Beaufort.

"We cure nothing but the king's evil," replied Louis; "and the complaints of the Cardinal are
always so mysterious that we own we can not understand them."

