While she was lamenting with madame her unhappy fate, she was summoned once more to attend
the Abate. At this moment her spirits entirely forsook her; the crisis of her fate seemed arrived;
for she did not doubt that the Abate intended to surrender her to the marquis, with whom she
supposed he had negotiated the terms of accommodation. It was some time before she could recover
composure sufficient to obey the summons; and when she did, every step that bore her towards
the Abate's room increased her dread. She paused a moment at the door, 'ere she had courage
to open it; the idea of her father's immediate resentment arose to her mind, and she was upon
the point of retreating to her chamber, when a sudden step within, near the door, destroyed
her hesitation, and she entered the closet. The marquis was not there, and her spirits revived.
The flush of triumph was diffused over the features of the Abate, though a shade of unappeased
resentment yet remained visible. 'Daughter,' said he, 'the intelligence we have to communicate
may rejoice you. Your safety now depends solely on yourself. I give your fate into your own
hands, and its issue be upon your head.' He paused, and she was suspended in wondering expectation
of the coming sentence. 'I here solemnly assure you of my protection, but it is upon one condition
only--that you renounce the world, and dedicate your days to God.' Julia listened with a mixture
of grief and astonishment. 'Without this concession on your part, I possess not the power,
had I even the inclination, to protect you. If you assume the veil, you are safe within the
pale of the church from temporal violence. If you neglect or refuse to do this, the marquis
may apply to a power from whom I have no appeal, and I shall be compelled at last to resign you.

'But to ensure your safety, should the veil be your choice, we will procure a dispensation
from the usual forms of noviciation, and a few days shall confirm your vows.' He ceased to
speak; but Julia, agitated with the most cruel distress, knew not what to reply. 'We grant
you three days to decide upon this matter,' continued he, 'at the expiration of which, the
veil, or the Duke de Luovo, awaits you.' Julia quitted the closet in mute despair, and repaired
to madame, who could now scarcely offer her the humble benefit of consolation.

Meanwhile the Abate exulted in successful vengeance, and the marquis smarted beneath the stings
of disappointment. The menace of the former was too seriously alarming to suffer the marquis
to prosecute violent measures; and he had therefore resolved, by opposing avarice to pride,
to soothe the power which he could not subdue. But he was unwilling to entrust the Abate with
a proof of his compliance and his fears by offering a bribe in a letter, and preferred the
more humiliating, but safer method, of a private interview. His magnificent offers created
a temporary hesitation in the mind of the Abate, who, secure of his advantage, shewed at first
no disposition to be reconciled, and suffered the marquis to depart in anxious uncertainty.
After maturely deliberating upon the proposals, the pride of the Abate surmounted his avarice,
and he determined to prevail upon Julia effectually to destroy the hopes of the marquis, by
consecrating her life to religion. Julia passed the night and the next day in a state of mental
torture exceeding all description. The gates of the monastery beset with guards, and the woods
surrounded by the marquis's people, made escape impossible. From a marriage with the duke,
whose late conduct had confirmed the odious idea which his character had formerly impressed,
her heart recoiled in horror, and to be immured for life within the walls of a convent, was
a fate little less dreadful. Yet such was the effect of that sacred love she bore the memory
of Hippolitus, and such her aversion to the duke, that she soon resolved to adopt the veil.
On the following evening she informed the Abate of her determination. His heart swelled with
secret joy; and even the natural severity of his manner relaxed at the intelligence. He assured
her of his approbation and protection, with a degree of kindness which he had never before
manifested, and told her the ceremony should be performed on the second day from the present.
Her emotion scarcely suffered her to hear his last words. Now that her fate was fixed beyond
recall, she almost repented of her choice. Her fancy attached to it a horror not its own; and
that evil, which, when offered to her decision, she had accepted with little hesitation, she
now paused upon in dubious regret; so apt we are to imagine that the calamity most certain,
is also the most intolerable!

When the marquis read the answer of the Abate, all the baleful passions of his nature were
roused and inflamed to a degree which bordered upon distraction. In the first impulse of his
rage, he would have forced the gates of the monastery, and defied the utmost malice of his
enemy. But a moment's reflection revived his fear of the threatened secret, and he saw that
he was still in the power of the Superior.

The Abate procured the necessary dispensation, and preparations were immediately began for
the approaching ceremony. Julia watched the departure of those moments which led to her fate
with the calm fortitude of despair. She had no means of escaping from the coming evil, without
exposing herself to a worse; she surveyed it therefore with a steady eye, and no longer shrunk
from its approach.

On the morning preceding the day of her consecration, she was informed that a stranger enquired
for her at the grate. Her mind had been so long accustomed to the vicissitudes of apprehension,
that fear was the emotion which now occurred; she suspected, yet scarcely knew why, that the
marquis was below, and hesitated whether to descend. A little reflection determined her, and
she went to the parlour--where, to her equal joy and surprise, she beheld--Ferdinand!

During the absence of the marquis from his castle, Ferdinand, who had been informed of the
discovery of Julia, effected his escape from imprisonment, and had hastened to the monastery
in the design of rescuing her. He had passed the woods in disguise, with much difficulty eluding
the observation of the marquis's people, who were yet dispersed round the abbey. To the monastery,
as he came alone, he had been admitted without difficulty.

When he learned the conditions of the Abate's protection, and that the following day was appointed
for the consecration of Julia, he was shocked, and paused in deliberation. A period so short
as was this interval, afforded little opportunity for contrivance, and less for hesitation.
The night of the present day was the only time that remained for the attempt and execution
of a plan of escape, which if it then failed of success, Julia would not only be condemned
for life to the walls of a monastery, but would be subjected to whatever punishment the severity
of the Abate, exasperated by the detection, should think fit to inflict. The danger was desperate,
but the occasion was desperate also.

The nobly disinterested conduct of her brother, struck Julia with gratitude and admiration;
but despair of success made her now hesitate whether she should accept his offer. She considered
that his generosity would most probably involve him in destruction with herself; and she paused
in deep deliberation, when Ferdinand informed her of a circumstance which, till now, he had
purposely concealed, and which at once dissolved every doubt and every fear. 'Hippolitus,'
said Ferdinand, 'yet lives.'--'Lives!' repeated Julia faintly,--'lives, Oh! tell me where--how.'--Her
breath refused to aid her, and she sunk in her chair overcome with the strong and various sensations
that pressed upon her heart. Ferdinand, whom the grate withheld from assisting her, observed
her situation with extreme distress. When she recovered, he informed her that a servant of
Hippolitus, sent no doubt by his lord to enquire concerning Julia, had been lately seen by
one of the marquis's people in the neighbourhood of the castle. From him it was known that
the Count de Vereza was living, but that his life had been despaired of; and he was still confined,
by dangerous wounds, in an obscure town on the coast of Italy. The man had steadily refused
to mention the place of his lord's abode. Learning that the marquis was then at the abbey of
St Augustin, whither he pursued his daughter, the man disappeared from Mazzini, and had not
since been heard of.

It was enough for Julia to know that Hippolitus lived; her fears of detection, and her scruples
concerning Ferdinand, instantly vanished; she thought only of escape--and the means which had
lately appeared so formidable--so difficult in contrivance, and so dangerous in execution,
now seemed easy, certain, and almost accomplished.

They consulted on the plan to be adopted, and agreed, that in attempting to bribe a servant
of the monastery to their interest, they should incur a danger too imminent, yet it appeared
scarcely practicable to succeed in their scheme without risquing this. After much consideration,
they determined to entrust their secret to no person but to madame. Ferdinand was to contrive
to conceal himself till the dead of night in the church, between which and the monastery were
several doors of communication. When the inhabitants of the abbey were sunk in repose, Julia
might without difficulty pass to the church, where Ferdinand awaiting her, they might perhaps
escape either through an outer door of the fabric, or through a window, for which latter attempt
Ferdinand was to provide ropes.

A couple of horses were to be stationed among the rocks beyond the woods, to convey the fugitives
to a sea-port, whence they could easily pass over to Italy. Having arranged this plan, they
separated in the anxious hope of meeting on the ensuing night.

Madame warmly sympathized with Julia in her present expectations, and was now somewhat relieved
from the pressure of that self-reproach, with which the consideration of having withdrawn her
young friend from a secure asylum, had long tormented her. In learning that Hippolitus lived,
Julia experienced a sudden renovation of life and spirits. From the languid stupefaction which
despair had occasioned she revived as from a dream, and her sensations resembled those of a
person suddenly awakened from a frightful vision, whose thoughts are yet obscured in the fear
and uncertainty which the passing images have impressed on his fancy. She emerged from despair;
joy illumined her countenance; yet she doubted the reality of the scene which now opened to
her view. The hours rolled heavily along till the evening, when expectation gave way to fear,
for she was once more summoned by the Abate. He sent for her to administer the usual necessary
exhortation on the approaching solemnity; and having detained her a considerable time in tedious
and severe discourse, dismissed her with a formal benediction.

CHAPTER XII

The evening now sunk in darkness, and the hour was fast approaching which would decide the
fate of Julia. Trembling anxiety subdued every other sensation; and as the minutes passed,
her fears increased. At length she heard the gates of the monastery fastened for the night;
the bell rang the signal for repose; and the passing footsteps of the nuns told her they were
hastening to obey it. After some time, all was silent. Julia did not yet dare to venture forth;
she employed the present interval in interesting and affectionate conversation with Madame
de Menon, to whom, notwithstanding her situation, her heart bade a sorrowful adieu.

The clock struck twelve, when she arose to depart. Having embraced her faithful friend with
tears of mingled grief and anxiety, she took a lamp in her hand, and with cautious, fearful
steps, descended through the long winding passages to a private door, which opened into the
church of the monastery. The church was gloomy and desolate; and the feeble rays of the lamp
she bore, gave only light enough to discover its chilling grandeur. As she passed silently
along the aisles, she cast a look of anxious examination around--but Ferdinand was no where
to be seen. She paused in timid hesitation, fearful to penetrate the gloomy obscurity which
lay before her, yet dreading to return.

As she stood examining the place, vainly looking for Ferdinand, yet fearing to call, lest her
voice should betray her, a hollow groan arose from apart of the church very near her. It chilled
her heart, and she remained fixed to the spot. She turned her eyes a little to the left, and
saw light appear through the chinks of a sepulchre at some distance. The groan was repeated--a
low murmuring succeeded, and while she yet gazed, an old man issued from the vault with a lighted
taper in his hand. Terror now subdued her, and she utterred an involuntary shriek. In the succeeding
moment, a noise was heard in a remote part of the fabric; and Ferdinand rushing forth from
his concealment, ran to her assistance. The old man, who appeared to be a friar, and who had
been doing penance at the monument of a saint, now approached. His countenance expressed a
degree of surprise and terror almost equal to that of Julia's, who knew him to be the confessor
of Vincent. Ferdinand seized the father; and laying his hand upon his sword, threatened him
with death if he did not instantly swear to conceal for ever his knowledge of what he then
saw, and also assist them to escape from the abbey.

'Ungracious boy!' replied the father, in a calm voice, 'desist from this language, nor add
to the follies of youth the crime of murdering, or terrifying a defenceless old man. Your violence
would urge me to become your enemy, did not previous inclination tempt me to be your friend.
I pity the distresses of the lady Julia, to whom I am no stranger, and will cheerfully give
her all the assistance in my power.'

At these words Julia revived, and Ferdinand, reproved by the generosity of the father, and
conscious of his own inferiority, shrunk back. 'I have no words to thank you,' said he, 'or
to entreat your pardon for the impetuosity of my conduct; your knowledge of my situation must
plead my excuse.'--'It does,' replied the father, 'but we have no time to lose;--follow me.'

They followed him through the church to the cloisters, at the extremity of which was a small
door, which the friar unlocked. It opened upon the woods.

'This path,' said he, 'leads thro' an intricate part of the woods, to the rocks that rise on
the right of the abbey; in their recesses you may secrete yourselves till you are prepared
for a longer journey. But extinguish your light; it may betray you to the marquis's people,
who are dispersed about this spot. Farewell! my children, and God's blessing be upon ye.'

Julia's tears declared her gratitude; she had no time for words. They stepped into the path,
and the father closed the door. They were now liberated from the monastery, but danger awaited
them without, which it required all their caution to avoid. Ferdinand knew the path which the
friar had pointed out to be the same that led to the rocks where his horses were stationed,
and he pursued it with quick and silent steps.