They are all young, some of them little more than boys. That they are Italians and mostly Romans
is past doubt. They all speak Latin in purity, while each one appears in the in-door dress
of the great capital on the Tiber; that is, in tunics short of sleeve and skirt, a style of
vesture well adapted to the climate of Antioch, and especially comfortable in the too close
atmosphere of the saloon. On the divan here and there togas and lacernae lie where they have
been carelessly tossed, some of them significantly bordered with purple. On the divan also
lie sleepers stretched at ease; whether they were overcome by the heat and fatigue of the sultry
day or by Bacchus we will not pause to inquire.

The hum of voices is loud and incessant. Sometimes there is an explosion of laughter, sometimes
a burst of rage or exultation; but over all prevails a sharp, prolonged rattle, at first somewhat
confusing to the non-familiar. If we approach the tables, however, the mystery solves itself.
The company is at the favorite games, draughts and dice, singly or together, and the rattle
is merely of the tesserae, or ivory cubes, loudly shaken, and the moving of the hostes on the
checkered boards.

Who are the company?

"Good Flavius," said a player, holding his piece in suspended movement, "thou seest yon lacerna;
that one in front of us on the divan. It is fresh from the shop, and hath a shoulder-buckle
of gold broad as a palm."

"Well," said Flavius, intent upon his game, "I have seen such before; wherefore thine may not
be old, yet, by the girdle of Venus, it is not new! What of it?"

"Nothing. Only I would give it to find a man who knows everything."

"Ha, ha! For something cheaper, I will find thee here several with purple who will take thy
offer. But play."

"There--check!"

"So, by all the Jupiters! Now, what sayest thou? Again?"

"Be it so."

"And the wager?"

"A sestertium."

Then each drew his tablets and stilus and made a memorandum; and, while they were resetting
the pieces, Flavius returned to his friend's remark.

"A man who knows everything! Hercle! the oracles would die. What wouldst thou with such a monster?"

"Answer to one question, my Flavius; then, perpol! I would cut his throat."

"And the question?"

"I would have him tell me the hour-- Hour, said I?--nay, the minute--Maxentius will arrive
to-morrow."

"Good play, good play! I have you! And why the minute?"

"Hast thou ever stood uncovered in the Syrian sun on the quay at which he will land? The fires
of the Vesta are not so hot; and, by the Stator of our father Romulus, I would die, if die
I must, in Rome. Avernus is here; there, in the square before the Forum, I could stand, and,
with my hand raised thus, touch the floor of the gods. Ha, by Venus, my Flavius, thou didst
beguile me! I have lost. O Fortune!"

"Again?"

"I must have back my sestertium."

"Be it so."

And they played again and again; and when day, stealing through the skylights, began to dim
the lamps, it found the two in the same places at the same table, still at the game. Like most
of the company, they were military attaches of the consul, awaiting his arrival and amusing
themselves meantime.

During this conversation a party entered the room, and, unnoticed at first, proceeded to the
central table. The signs were that they had come from a revel just dismissed. Some of them
kept their feet with difficulty. Around the leader's brow was a chaplet which marked him master
of the feast, if not the giver. The wine had made no impression upon him unless to heighten
his beauty, which was of the most manly Roman style; he carried his head high raised; the blood
flushed his lips and cheeks brightly; his eyes glittered; though the manner in which, shrouded
in a toga spotless white and of ample folds, he walked was too nearly imperial for one sober
and not a Caesar. In going to the table, he made room for himself and his followers with little
ceremony and no apologies; and when at length he stopped, and looked over it and at the players,
they all turned to him, with a shout like a cheer.

"Messala! Messala!" they cried.

Those in distant quarters, hearing the cry, re-echoed it where they were. Instantly there were
dissolution of groups, and breaking-up of games, and a general rush towards the centre.

Messala took the demonstration indifferently, and proceeded presently to show the ground of
his popularity.

"A health to thee, Drusus, my friend," he said to the player next at his right; "a health--and
thy tablets a moment."

He raised the waxen boards, glanced at the memoranda of wagers, and tossed them down.

"Denarii, only denarii--coin of cartmen and butchers!" he said, with a scornful laugh. "By
the drunken Semele, to what is Rome coming, when a Caesar sits o' nights waiting a turn of
fortune to bring him but a beggarly denarius!"

The scion of the Drusi reddened to his brows, but the bystanders broke in upon his reply by
surging closer around the table, and shouting, "The Messala! the Messala!"

"Men of the Tiber," Messala continued, wresting a box with the dice in it from a hand near-by,
"who is he most favored of the gods? A Roman. Who is he lawgiver of the nations? A Roman. Who
is he, by sword right, the universal master?"

The company were of the easily inspired, and the thought was one to which they were born; in
a twinkling they snatched the answer from him.

"A Roman, a Roman!" they shouted.

"Yet--yet"--he lingered to catch their ears--"yet there is a better than the best of Rome."

He tossed his patrician head and paused, as if to sting them with his sneer.

"Hear ye?" he asked. "There is a better than the best of Rome."

"Ay--Hercules!" cried one.

"Bacchus!" yelled a satirist.

"Jove--Jove!" thundered the crowd.

"No," Messala answered, "among men."

"Name him, name him!" they demanded.

"I will," he said, the next lull. "He who to the perfection of Rome hath added the perfection
of the East; who to the arm of conquest, which is Western, hath also the art needful to the
enjoyment of dominion, which is Eastern."

"Perpol! His best is a Roman, after all," some one shouted; and there was a great laugh, and
long clapping of hands--an admission that Messala had the advantage.

"In the East" he continued, "we have no gods, only Wine, Women, and Fortune, and the greatest
of them is Fortune; wherefore our motto, 'Who dareth what I dare?'--fit for the senate, fit
for battle, fittest for him who, seeking the best, challenges the worst."

His voice dropped into an easy, familiar tone, but without relaxing the ascendancy he had gained.

"In the great chest up in the citadel I have five talents coin current in the markets, and
here are the receipts for them."

From his tunic he drew a roll of paper, and, flinging it on the table, continued, amidst breathless
silence, every eye having him in view fixed on his, every ear listening:

"The sum lies there the measure of what I dare. Who of you dares so much! You are silent. Is
it too great? I will strike off one talent. What! still silent? Come, then, throw me once for
these three talents--only three; for two; for one--one at least--one for the honor of the river
by which you were born--Rome East against Rome West!--Orontes the barbarous against Tiber the
sacred!"

He rattled the dice overhead while waiting.

"The Orontes against the Tiber!" he repeated, with an increase of scornful emphasis.

Not a man moved; then he flung the box upon the table and, laughing, took up the receipts.

"Ha, ha, ha! By the Olympian Jove, I know now ye have fortunes to make or to mend; therefore
are ye come to Antioch. Ho, Cecilius!"

"Here, Messala!" cried a man behind him; "here am I, perishing in the mob, and begging a drachma
to settle with the ragged ferryman. But, Pluto take me! these new ones have not so much as
an obolus among them."

The sally provoked a burst of laughter, under which the saloon rang and rang again. Messala
alone kept his gravity.

"Go, thou," he said to Cecilius, "to the chamber whence we came, and bid the servants bring
the amphorae here, and the cups and goblets. If these our countrymen, looking for fortune,
have not purses, by the Syrian Bacchus, I will see if they are not better blessed with stomachs!
Haste thee!"

Then he turned to Drusus, with a laugh heard throughout the apartment.

"Ha, ha, my friend! Be thou not offended because I levelled the Caesar in thee down to the
denarii. Thou seest I did but use the name to try these fine fledglings of our old Rome. Come,
my Drusus, come!" He took up the box again and rattled the dice merrily. "Here, for what sum
thou wilt, let us measure fortunes."

The manner was frank, cordial, winsome. Drusus melted in a moment.

"By the Nymphae, yes!" he said, laughing. "I will throw with thee, Messala--for a denarius."

A very boyish person was looking over the table watching the scene. Suddenly Messala turned to him.

"Who art thou?" he asked.

The lad drew back.

"Nay, by Castor! and his brother too! I meant not offence. It is a rule among men, in matters
other than dice, to keep the record closest when the deal is least. I have need of a clerk.
Wilt thou serve me?"

The young fellow drew his tablets ready to keep the score: the manner was irresistible.

"Hold, Messala, hold!" cried Drusus. "I know not if it be ominous to stay the poised dice with
a question; but one occurs to me, and I must ask it though Venus slap me with her girdle."

"Nay, my Drusus, Venus with her girdle off is Venus in love. To thy question--I will make the
throw and hold it against mischance. Thus--"

He turned the box upon the table and held it firmly over the dice.

And Drusus asked, "Did you ever see one Quintus Arrius?"

"The duumvir?"

"No--his son?"

"I knew not he had a son."

"Well, it is nothing," Drusus added, indifferently; "only, my Messala, Pollux was not more
like Castor than Arrius is like thee."

The remark had the effect of a signal: twenty voices took it up.

"True, true! His eyes--his face," they cried.

"What!" answered one, disgusted. "Messala is a Roman; Arrius is a Jew."

"Thou sayest right," a third exclaimed. "He is a Jew, or Momus lent his mother the wrong mask."

There was promise of a dispute; seeing which, Messala interposed. "The wine is not come, my
Drusus; and, as thou seest, I have the freckled Pythias as they were dogs in leash. As to Arrius,
I will accept thy opinion of him, so thou tell me more about him."

"Well, be he Jew or Roman--and, by the great god Pan, I say it not in disrespect of thy feelings,
my Messala!--this Arrius is handsome and brave and shrewd. The emperor offered him favor and
patronage, which he refused. He came up through mystery, and keepeth distance as if he felt
himself better or knew himself worse than the rest of us. In the palaestrae he was unmatched;
he played with the blue-eyed giants from the Rhine and the hornless bulls of Sarmatia as they
were willow wisps. The duumvir left him vastly rich. He has a passion for arms, and thinks
of nothing but war. Maxentius admitted him into his family, and he was to have taken ship with
us, but we lost him at Ravenna. Nevertheless he arrived safely. We heard of him this morning.
Perpol! Instead of coming to the palace or going to the citadel, he dropped his baggage at
the khan, and hath disappeared again."

At the beginning of the speech Messala listened with polite indifference; as it proceeded,
he became more attentive; at the conclusion, he took his hand from the dice-box, and called
out, "Ho, my Caius! Dost thou hear?"

A youth at his elbow--his Myrtilus, or comrade, in the day's chariot practice--answered, much
pleased with the attention, "Did I not, my Messala, I were not thy friend."

"Dost thou remember the man who gave thee the fall to-day?"

"By the love-locks of Bacchus, have I not a bruised shoulder to help me keep it in mind?" and
he seconded the words with a shrug that submerged his ears.

"Well, be thou grateful to the Fates--I have found thy enemy. Listen."

Thereupon Messala turned to Drusus.

"Tell us more of him--perpol!--of him who is both Jew and Roman--by Phoebus, a combination
to make a Centaur lovely! What garments cloth he affect, my Drusus?"

"Those of the Jews."

"Hearest thou, Caius?" said Messala. "The fellow is young--one; he hath the visage of a Roman--two;
he loveth best the garb of a Jew--three; and in the palaestrae fame and fortune come of arms
to throw a horse or tilt a chariot, as the necessity may order--four. And, Drusus, help thou
my friend again. Doubtless this Arrius hath tricks of language; otherwise he could not so confound
himself, to-day a Jew, to-morrow a Roman; but of the rich tongue of Athene--discourseth he
in that as well?"

"With such purity, Messala, he might have been a contestant in the Isthmia."

"Art thou listening, Caius?" said Messala. "The fellow is qualified to salute a woman--for
that matter Aristomache herself--in the Greek; and as I keep the count, that is five. What
sayest thou?"

"Thou hast found him, my Messala," Caius answered; "or I am not myself."

"Thy pardon, Drusus--and pardon of all--for speaking in riddles thus," Messala said, in his
winsome way. "By all the decent gods, I would not strain thy courtesy to the point of breaking,
but now help thou me. See!"--he put his hand on the dice-box again, laughing--"See how close
I hold the Pythias and their secret! Thou didst speak, I think, of mystery in connection with
the coming of the son of Arrius. Tell me of that."

"'Tis nothing, Messala, nothing," Drusus replied; "a child's story. When Arrius, the father,
sailed in pursuit of the pirates, he was without wife or family; he returned with a boy--him
of whom we speak--and next day adopted him."

"Adopted him?" Messala repeated. "By the gods, Drusus, thou dost, indeed, interest me! Where
did the duumvir find the boy? And who was he?"

"Who shall answer thee that, Messala? who but the young Arrius himself? Perpol! in the fight
the duumvir--then but a tribune--lost his galley. A returning vessel found him and one other--all
of the crew who survived--afloat upon the same plank. I give you now the story of the rescuers,
which hath this excellence at least--it hath never been contradicted. They say, the duumvir's
companion on the plank was a Jew--"

"A Jew!" echoed Messala.

"And a slave."

"How Drusus? A slave?"

"When the two were lifted to the deck, the duumvir was in his tribune's armor, and the other
in the vesture of a rower."

Messala rose from leaning against the table.

"A galley"--he checked the debasing word, and looked around, for once in his life at loss.
Just then a procession of slaves filed into the room, some with great jars of wine, others
with baskets of fruits and confections, others again with cups and flagons, mostly silver.
There was inspiration in the sight. Instantly Messala climbed upon a stool.

"Men of the Tiber," he said, in a clear voice, "let us turn this waiting for our chief into
a feast of Bacchus. Whom choose ye for master?"

Drusus arose.

"Who shall be master but the giver of the feast?" he said. "Answer, Romans."

They gave their reply in a shout.

Messala took the chaplet from his head, gave it to Drusus, who climbed upon the table, and,
in the view of all, solemnly replaced it, making Messala master of the night.

"There came with me into the room," he said, "some friends just risen from table. That our
feast may have the approval of sacred custom, bring hither that one of them most overcome by wine."

A din of voices answered, "Here he is, here he is!"

And from the floor where he had fallen, a youth was brought forward, so effeminately beautiful
he might have passed for the drinking-god himself--only the crown would have dropped from his
head, and the thyrsus from his hand.

"Lift him upon the table," the master said.

It was found he could not sit.

"Help him, Drusus, as the fair Nyone may yet help thee."

Drusus took the inebriate in his arms.

Then addressing the limp figure, Messala said, amidst profound silence, "O Bacchus! greatest
of the gods, be thou propitious to-night. And for myself, and these thy votaries, I vow this
chaplet"--and from his head he raised it reverently--"I vow this chaplet to thy altar in the
Grove of Daphne."

He bowed, replaced the crown upon his locks, then stooped and uncovered the dice, saying, with
a laugh, "See, my Drusus, by the ass of Silenus, the denarius is mine!"

There was a shout that set the floor to quaking, and the grim Atlantes to dancing, and the
orgies began.

CHAPTER XIII

Sheik Ilderim was a man of too much importance to go about with a small establishment. He had
a reputation to keep with his tribe, such as became a prince and patriarch of the greatest
following in all the Desert east of Syria; with the people of the cities he had another reputation,
which was that of one of the richest personages not a king in all the East; and, being rich
in fact--in money as well as in servants, camels, horses, and flocks of all kinds--he took
pleasure in a certain state, which, besides magnifying his dignity with strangers, contributed
to his personal pride and comfort. Wherefore the reader must not be misled by the frequent
reference to his tent in the Orchard of Palms. He had there really a respectable dowar; that
is to say, he had there three large tents--one for himself, one for visitors, one for his favorite
wife and her women; and six or eight lesser ones, occupied by his servants and such tribal
retainers as he had chosen to bring with him as a body-guard--strong men of approved courage,
and skillful with bow, spear, and horses.

To be sure, his property of whatever kind was in no danger at the Orchard; yet as the habits
of a man go with him to town not less than the country, and as it is never wise to slip the
bands of discipline, the interior of the dowar was devoted to his cows, camels, goats, and
such property in general as might tempt a lion or a thief.

To do him full justice, Ilderim kept well all the customs of his people, abating none, not
even the smallest; in consequence his life at the Orchard was a continuation of his life in
the Desert; nor that alone, it was a fair reproduction of the old patriarchal modes--the genuine
pastoral life of primitive Israel.

Recurring to the morning the caravan arrived at the Orchard--"Here, plant it here," he said,
stopping his horse, and thrusting a spear into the ground. "Door to the south; the lake before
it thus; and these, the children of the Desert, to sit under at the going-down of the sun."

At the last words he went to a group of three great palm-trees, and patted one of them as he
would have patted his horse's neck, or the cheek of the child of his love.

Who but the sheik could of right say to the caravan, Halt! or of the tent, Here be it pitched?
The spear was wrested from the ground, and over the wound it had riven in the sod the base
of the first pillar of the tent was planted, marking the centre of the front door. Then eight
others were planted--in all, three rows of pillars, three in a row. Then, at call, the women
and children came, and unfolded the canvas from its packing on the camels. Who might do this
but the women? Had they not sheared the hair from the brown goats of the flock? and twisted
it into thread? and woven the thread into cloth? and stitched the cloth together, making the
perfect roof, dark-brown in fact, though in the distance black as the tents of Kedar? And,
finally, with what jests and laughter, and pulls altogether, the united following of the sheik
stretched the canvas from pillar to pillar, driving the stakes and fastening the cords as they
went! And when the walls of open reed matting were put in place--the finishing-touch to the
building after the style of the Desert--with what hush of anxiety they waited the good man's
judgment! When he walked in and out, looking at the house in connection with the sun, the trees,
and the lake, and said, rubbing his hands with might of heartiness, "Well done! Make the dowar
now as ye well know, and to-night we will sweeten the bread with arrack, and the milk with
honey, and at every fire there shall be a kid. God with ye! Want of sweet water there shall
not be, for the lake is our well; neither shall the bearers of burden hunger, or the least
of the flock, for here is green pasture also. God with you all, my children! Go."

And, shouting, the many happy went their ways then to pitch their own habitations. A few remained
to arrange the interior for the sheik; and of these the men-servants hung a curtain to the
central row of pillars, making two apartments; the one on the right sacred to Ilderim himself,
the other sacred to his horses--his jewels of Solomon--which they led in, and with kisses and
love-taps set at liberty. Against the middle pillar they then erected the arms-rack, and filled
it with javelins and spears, and bows, arrows, and shields; outside of them hanging the master's
sword, modelled after the new moon; and the glitter of its blade rivalled the glitter of the
jewels bedded in its grip. Upon one end of the rack they hung the housings of the horses, gay
some of them as the livery of a king's servant, while on the other end they displayed the great
man's wearing apparel--his robes woollen and robes linen, his tunics and trousers, and many
colored kerchiefs for the head. Nor did they give over the work until he pronounced it well.

Meantime the women drew out and set up the divan, more indispensable to him than the beard
down-flowing over his breast, white as Aaron's. They put a frame together in shape of three
sides of a square, the opening to the door, and covered it with cushions and base curtains,
and the cushions with a changeable spread striped brown and yellow; at the corners they placed
pillows and bolsters sacked in cloth blue and crimson; then around the divan they laid a margin
of carpet, and the inner space they carpeted as well; and when the carpet was carried from
the opening of the divan to the door of the tent, their work was done; whereupon they again
waited until the master said it was good. Nothing remained then but to bring and fill the jars
with water, and hang the skin bottles of arrack ready for the hand--to-morrow the leben. Nor
might an Arab see why Ilderim should not be  both happy and generous--in his tent by the lake
of sweet waters, under the palms of the Orchard of Palms.

Such was the tent at the door of which we left Ben-Hur.

Servants were already waiting the master's direction. One of them took off his sandals; another
unlatched Ben-Hur's Roman shoes; then the two exchanged their dusty outer garments for fresh
ones of white linen.

"Enter--in God's name, enter, and take thy rest," said the host, heartily, in the dialect of
the Market-place of Jerusalem; forthwith he led the way to the divan.

"I will sit here," he said next, pointing; "and there the stranger."

A woman--in the old time she would have been called a handmaid--answered, and dexterously piled
the pillows and bolsters as rests for the back; after which they sat upon the side of the divan,
while water was brought fresh from the lake, and their feet bathed and dried with napkins.

"We have a saying in the Desert," Ilderim began, gathering his beard, and combing it with his
slender fingers, "that a good appetite is the promise of a long life. Hast thou such?"

"By that rule, good sheik, I will live a hundred years. I am a hungry wolf at thy door," Ben-Hur
replied.

"Well, thou shalt not be sent away like a wolf. I will give thee the best of the flocks."

Ilderim clapped his hands.

"Seek the stranger in the guest-tent, and say I, Ilderim, send him a prayer that his peace
may be as incessant as the flowing of waters."

The man in waiting bowed.

"Say, also," Ilderim continued, "that I have returned with another for breaking of bread; and,
if Balthasar the wise careth to share the loaf, three may partake of it, and the portion of
the birds be none the less."

The second servant went away.

"Let us take our rest now."

Thereupon Ilderim settled himself upon the divan, as at this day merchants sit on their rugs
in the bazaars of Damascus; and when fairly at rest, he stopped combing his beard, and said,
gravely, "That thou art my guest, and hast drunk my leben, and art about to taste my salt,
ought not to forbid a question: Who art thou?"

"Sheik Ilderim," said Ben-Hur, calmly enduring his gaze, "I pray thee not to think me trifling
with thy just demand; but was there never a time in thy life when to answer such a question
would have been a crime to thyself?"

"By the splendor of Solomon, yes!" Ilderim answered. "Betrayal of self is at times as base
as the betrayal of a tribe."

"Thanks, thanks, good sheik!" Ben-Hur exclaimed.

"Never answer became thee better. Now I know thou cost but seek assurance to justify the trust
I have come to ask, and that such assurance is of more interest to thee than the affairs of
my poor life."

The sheik in his turn bowed, and Ben-Hur hastened to pursue his advantage.

"So it please thee then," he said, "first, I am not a Roman, as the name given thee as mine
implieth."

Ilderim clasped the beard overflowing his breast, and gazed at the speaker with eyes faintly
twinkling through the shade of the heavy close-drawn brows.

"In the next place," Ben-Hur continued, "I am an Israelite of the tribe of Judah."

The sheik raised his brows a little.

"Nor that merely. Sheik, I am a Jew with a grievance against Rome compared with which thine
is not more than a child's trouble."

The old man combed his beard with nervous haste, and let fall his brows until even the twinkle
of the eyes went out.

"Still further: I swear to thee, Sheik Ilderim--I swear by the covenant the Lord made with
my fathers--so thou but give me the revenge I seek, the money and the glory of the race shall
be thine."

Ilderim's brows relaxed; his head arose; his face began to beam; and it was almost possible
to see the satisfaction taking possession of him.

"Enough!" he said. "If at the roots of thy tongue there is a lie in coil, Solomon himself had
not been safe against thee. That thou art not a Roman--that as a Jew thou hast a grievance
against Rome, and revenge to compass, I believe; and on that score enough. But as to thy skill.
What experience hast thou in racing with chariots? And the horses--canst thou make them creatures
of thy will?--to know thee? to come at call? to go, if thou sayest it, to the last extreme
of breath and strength? and then, in the perishing moment, out of the depths of thy life thrill
them to one exertion the mightiest of all? The gift, my son, is not to every one. Ah, by the
splendor of God! I knew a king who governed millions of men, their perfect master, but could
not win the respect of a horse. Mark! I speak not of the dull brutes whose round it is to slave
for slaves--the debased in blood and image--the dead in spirit; but of such as mine here--the
kings of their kind; of a lineage reaching back to the broods of the first Pharaoh; my comrades
and friends, dwellers in tents, whom long association with me has brought up to my plane; who
to their instincts have added our wits and to their senses joined our souls, until they feel
all we know of ambition, love, hate, and contempt; in war, heroes; in trust, faithful as women.
Ho, there!"

A servant came forward.

"Let my Arabs come!"

The man drew aside part of the division curtain of the tent, exposing to view a group of horses,
who lingered a moment where they were as if to make certain of the invitation.

"Come!" Ilderim said to them. "Why stand ye there? What have I that is not yours? Come, I say!"

They stalked slowly in.

"Son of Israel," the master said, "thy Moses was a mighty man, but--ha, ha ha!--I must laugh
when I think of his allowing thy fathers the plodding ox and the dull, slow-natured ass, and
forbidding them property in horses. Ha, ha, ha! Thinkest thou he would have done so had he
seen that one--and that--and this?" At the word he laid his hand upon the face of the first
to reach him, and patted it with infinite pride and tenderness.

"It is a misjudgment, sheik, a misjudgment," Ben-Hur said, warmly. "Moses was a warrior as
well as a lawgiver beloved by God; and to follow war--ah, what is it but to love all its creatures--these
among the rest?"

A head of exquisite turn--with large eyes, soft as a deer's, and half hidden by the dense forelock,
and small ears, sharp-pointed and sloped well forward--approached then quite to his breast,
the nostrils open, and the upper lip in motion. "Who are you?" it asked, plainly as ever man
spoke. Ben-Hur recognized one of the four racers he had seen on the course, and gave his open
hand to the beautiful brute.

"They will tell you, the blasphemers!--may their days shorten as they grow fewer!"--the sheik
spoke with the feeling of a man repelling a personal defamation--"they will tell you, I say,
that our horses of the best blood are derived from the Nesaean pastures of Persia. God gave
the first Arab a measureless waste of sand, with some treeless mountains, and here and there
a well of bitter waters; and said to him, 'Behold thy country!' And when the poor man complained,
the Mighty One pitied him, and said again, 'Be of cheer! for I will twice bless thee above
other men.' The Arab heard, and gave thanks, and with faith set out to find the blessings.
He travelled all the boundaries first, and failed; then he made a path into the desert, and
went on and on--and in the heart of the waste there was an island of green very beautiful to
see; and in the heart of the island, lo! a herd of camels, and another of horses! He took them
joyfully and kept them with care for what they were--best gifts of God. And from that green
isle went forth all the horses of the earth; even to the pastures of Nesaea they went; and
northward to the dreadful vales perpetually threshed by blasts from the Sea of Chill Winds.
Doubt not the story; or if thou dost, may never amulet have charm for an Arab again. Nay, I
will give thee proof."

He clapped his hands.

"Bring me the records of the tribe," he said to the servant who responded.

While waiting, the sheik played with the horses, patting their cheeks, combing their forelocks
with his fingers, giving each one a token of remembrance. Presently six men appeared with chests
of cedar reinforced by bands of brass, and hinged and bolted with brass.

"Nay," said Ilderim, when they were all set down by the divan, "I meant not all of them; only
the records of the horses--that one. Open it and take back the others."

The chest was opened, disclosing a mass of ivory tablets strung on rings of silver wire; and
as the tablets were scarcely thicker than wafers, each ring held several hundreds of them.

"I know," said Ilderim, taking some of the rings in his hand--"I know with what care and zeal,
my son, the scribes of the Temple in the Holy City keep the names of the newly born, that every
son of Israel may trace his line of ancestry to its beginning, though it antedate the patriarchs.
My fathers--may the recollection of them be green forever!--did not think it sinful to borrow
the idea, and apply it to their dumb servants. See these tablets!"

Ben-Hur took the rings, and separating the tablets saw they bore rude hieroglyphs in Arabic,
burned on the smooth surface by a sharp point of heated metal.

"Canst thou read them, O son of Israel?"

"No. Thou must tell me their meaning."

"Know thou, then, each tablet records the name of a foal of the pure blood born to my fathers
through the hundreds of years passed; and also the names of sire and dam. Take them, and note
their age, that thou mayst the more readily believe."

Some of the tablets were nearly worn away. All were yellow with age.

"In the chest there, I can tell thee now, I have the perfect history; perfect because certified
as history seldom is--showing of what stock all these are sprung--this one, and that now supplicating
thy notice and caress; and as they come to us here, their sires, even the furthest removed
in time, came to my sires, under a tent-roof like this of mine, to eat their measure of barley
from the open hand, and be talked to as children; and as children kiss the thanks they have
not speech to express. And now, O son of Israel, thou mayst believe my declaration--if I am
a lord of the Desert, behold my ministers! Take them from me, and I become as a sick man left
by the caravan to die. Thanks to them, age hath not diminished the terror of me on the highways
between cities; and it will not while I have strength to go with them. Ha, ha, ha! I could
tell thee marvels done by their ancestors. In a favoring time I may do so; for the present,
enough that they were never overtaken in retreat; nor, by the sword of Solomon, did they ever
fail in pursuit! That, mark you, on the sands and under saddle; but now--I do not know--I am
afraid, for they are under yoke the first time, and the conditions of success are so many.
They have the pride and the speed and the endurance. If I find them a master, they will win.
Son of Israel! so thou art the man, I swear it shall be a happy day that brought thee thither.
Of thyself now speak."

"I know now," said Ben-Hur, "why it is that in the love of an Arab his horse is next to his
children; and I know, also, why the Arab horses are the best in the world; but, good sheik,
I would not have you judge me by words alone; for, as you know, all promises of men sometimes
fail. Give me the trial first on some plain hereabout, and put the four in my hand to-morrow."

Ilderim's face beamed again, and he would have spoken.

"A moment, good sheik, a moment!" said Ben-Hur. "Let me say further. From the masters in Rome
I learned many lessons, little thinking they would serve me in a time like this. I tell thee
these thy sons of the Desert, though they have separately the speed of eagles and the endurance
of lions, will fail if they are not trained to run together under the yoke. For bethink thee,
sheik, in every four there is one the slowest and one the swiftest; and while the race is always
to the slowest, the trouble is always with the swiftest. It was so to-day; the driver could
not reduce the best to harmonious action with the poorest. My trial may have no better result;
but if so, I will tell thee of it: that I swear. Wherefore, in the same spirit I say, can I
get them to run together, moved by my will, the four as one, thou shalt have the sestertii
and the crown, and I my revenge. What sayest thou?"

Ilderim listened, combing his beard the while. At the end he said, with a laugh, "I think better
of thee, son of Israel. We have a saying in the Desert, 'If you will cook the meal with words,
I will promise an ocean of butter.' thou shalt have the horses in the morning."

At that moment there was a stir at the rear entrance to the tent.

"The supper--it is here! and yonder my friend Balthasar, whom thou shalt know. He hath a story
to tell which an Israelite should never tire of hearing."

And to the servants he added,

"Take the records away, and return my jewels to their apartment."

And they did as he ordered.

CHAPTER XIV

If the reader will return now to the repast of the wise men at their meeting in the desert,
he will understand the preparations for the supper in Ilderim's tent. The differences were
chiefly such as were incident to ampler means and better service.

Three rugs were spread on the carpet within the space so nearly enclosed by the divan; a table
not more than a foot in height was brought and set within the same place, and covered with
a cloth. Off to one side a portable earthenware oven was established under the presidency of
a woman whose duty it was to keep the company in bread, or, more precisely, in hot cakes of
flour from the handmills grinding with constant sound in a neighboring tent.

Meanwhile Balthasar was conducted to the divan, where Ilderim and Ben-Hur received him standing.
A loose black gown covered his person; his step was feeble, and his whole movement slow and
cautious, apparently dependent upon a long staff and the arm of a servant.

"Peace to you, my friend," said Ilderim, respectfully. "Peace and welcome."

The Egyptian raised his head and replied, "And to thee, good sheik--to thee and thine, peace
and the blessing of the One God--God the true and loving."

The manner was gentle and devout, and impressed Ben-Hur with a feeling of awe; besides which
the blessing included in the answering salutation had been partly addressed to him, and while
that part was being spoken, the eyes of the aged guest, hollow yet luminous, rested upon his
face long enough to stir an emotion new and mysterious, and so strong that he again and again
during the repast scanned the much wrinkled and bloodless face for its meaning; but always
there was the expression bland, placid, and trustful as a child's. A little later he found
that expression habitual.

"This is he, O Balthasar," said the sheik, laying his hand on Ben-Hur's arm, "who will break
bread with us this evening."

The Egyptian glanced at the young man, and looked again surprised and doubting; seeing which
the sheik continued, "I have promised him my horses for trial to-morrow; and if all goes well,
he will drive them in the Circus."

Balthasar continued his gaze.

"He came well recommended," Ilderim pursued, much puzzled. "You may know him as the son of
Arrius, who was a noble Roman sailor, though"--the sheik hesitated, then resumed, with a laugh--"though
he declares himself an Israelite of the tribe of Judah; and, by the splendor of God, I believe
that he tells me!"

Balthasar could no longer withhold explanation.

"To-day, O most generous sheik, my life was in peril, and would have been lost had not a youth,
the counterpart of this one--if, indeed, he be not the very same--intervened when all others
fled, and saved me." Then he addressed Ben-Hur directly, "Art thou not he?"

"I cannot answer so far," Ben-Hur replied, with modest deference. "I am he who stopped the
horses of the insolent Roman when they were rushing upon thy camel at the Fountain of Castalia.
Thy daughter left a cup with me."

From the bosom of his tunic he produced the cup, and gave it to Balthasar.

A glow lighted the faded countenance of the Egyptian.

"The Lord sent thee to me at the Fountain to-day," he said, in a tremulous voice, stretching
his hand towards Ben-Hur; "and he sends thee to me now. I give him thanks; and praise him thou,
for of his favor I have wherewith to give thee great reward, and I will. The cup is thine;
keep it."

Ben-Hur took back the gift, and Balthasar, seeing the inquiry upon Ilderim's face, related
the occurrence at the Fountain.

"What!" said the sheik to Ben-Hur. "Thou saidst nothing of this to me, when better recommendation
thou couldst not have brought. Am I not an Arab, and sheik of my tribe of tens of thousands?
And is not he my guest? And is it not in my guest-bond that the good or evil thou dost him
is good or evil done to me? Whither shouldst thou go for reward but here? And whose the hand
to give it but mine?"

His voice at the end of the speech rose to cutting shrillness.

"Good sheik, spare me, I pray. I came not for reward, great or small; and that I may be acquitted
of the thought, I say the help I gave this excellent man would have been given as well to thy
humblest servant."

"But he is my friend, my guest--not my servant; and seest thou not in the difference the favor
of Fortune?" Then to Balthasar the sheik subjoined, "Ah, by the splendor of God! I tell thee
again he is not a Roman."

With that he turned away, and gave attention to the servants, whose preparations for the supper
were about complete.

The reader who recollects the history of Balthasar as given by himself at the meeting in the
desert will understand the effect of Ben-Hur's assertion of disinterestedness upon that worthy.
In his devotion to men there had been, it will be remembered, no distinctions; while the redemption
which had been promised him in the way of reward--the redemption for which he was waiting--was
universal. To him, therefore, the assertion sounded somewhat like an echo of himself. He took
a step nearer Ben-Hur, and spoke to him in the childlike way.

"How did the sheik say I should call you? It was a Roman name, I think."

"Arrius, the son of Arrius."

"Yet thou art not a Roman?"

"All my people were Jews."

"Were, saidst thou? Are they not living?"

The question was subtle as well as simple; but Ilderim saved Ben-Hur from reply.

"Come," he said to them, "the meal is ready."

Ben-Hur gave his arm to Balthasar, and conducted him to the table, where shortly they were
all seated on their rugs Eastern fashion. The lavers were brought them, and they washed and
dried their hands; then the sheik made a sign, the servants stopped, and the voice of the Egyptian
arose tremulous with holy feeling.

"Father of All--God! What we have is of thee; take our thanks, and bless us, that we may continue
to do thy will."

It was the grace the good man had said simultaneously with his brethren Gaspar the Greek and
Melchior the Hindoo, the utterance in diverse tongues out of which had come the miracle attesting
the Divine Presence at the meal in the desert years before.

The table to which they immediately addressed themselves was, as may be thought, rich in the
substantials and delicacies favorite in the East--in cakes hot from the oven, vegetables from
the gardens, meats singly, compounds of meats and vegetables, milk of kine, and honey and butter--all
eaten or drunk, it should be remarked, without any of the modern accessories--knives, forks,
spoons, cups, or plates; and in this part of the repast but little was said, for they were
hungry. But when the dessert was in course it was otherwise. They laved their hands again,
had the lap-cloths shaken out, and with a renewed table and the sharp edge of their appetites
gone they were disposed to talk and listen.

With such a company--an Arab, a Jew, and an Egyptian, all believers alike in one God--there
could be at that age but one subject of conversation; and of the three, which should be speaker
but he to whom the Deity had been so nearly a personal appearance, who had seen him in a star,
had heard his voice in direction, had been led so far and so miraculously by his Spirit? And
of what should he talk but that of which he had been called to testify?

CHAPTER XV

The shadows cast over the Orchard of Palms by the mountains at set of sun left no sweet margin
time of violet sky and drowsing earth between the day and night. The latter came early and
swift; and against its glooming in the tent this evening the servants brought four candlesticks
of brass, and set them by the corners of the table. To each candlestick there were four branches,
and on each branch a lighted silver lamp and a supply cup of olive-oil. In light ample, even
brilliant, the group at dessert continued their conversation, speaking in the Syriac dialect,
familiar to all peoples in that part of the world.

The Egyptian told his story of the meeting of the three in the desert, and agreed with the
sheik that it was in December, twenty-seven years before, when he and his companions fleeing
from Herod arrived at the tent praying shelter. The narrative was heard with intense interest;
even the servants lingering when they could to catch its details. Ben-Hur received it as became
a man listening to a revelation of deep concern to all humanity, and to none of more concern
than the people of Israel. In his mind, as we shall presently see, there was crystallizing
an idea which was to change his course of life, if not absorb it absolutely.

As the recital proceeded, the impression made by Balthasar upon the young Jew increased; at
its conclusion, his feeling was too profound to permit a doubt of its truth; indeed, there
was nothing left him desirable in the connection but assurances, if such were to be had, pertaining
exclusively to the consequences of the amazing event.

And now there is wanting an explanation which the very discerning may have heretofore demanded;
certainly it can be no longer delayed. Our tale begins, in point of date not less than fact,
to trench close upon the opening of the ministry of the Son of Mary, whom we have seen but
once since this same Balthasar left him worshipfully in his mother's lap in the cave by Bethlehem.
Henceforth to the end the mysterious Child will be a subject of continual reference; and slowly
though surely the current of events with which we are dealing will bring us nearer and nearer
to him, until finally we see him a man--we would like, if armed contrariety of opinion would
permit it, to add--A MAN WHOM THE WORLD COULD NOT DO WITHOUT. Of this declaration, apparently
so simple, a shrewd mind inspired by faith will make much--and in welcome. Before his time,
and since, there have been men indispensable to particular people and periods; but his indispensability
was to the whole race, and for all time--a respect in which it is unique, solitary, divine.

To Sheik Ilderim the story was not new. He had heard it from the three wise men together under
circumstances which left no room for doubt; he had acted upon it seriously, for the helping
a fugitive escape from the anger of the first Herod was dangerous. Now one of the three sat
at his table again, a welcome guest and revered friend. Sheik Ilderim certainly believed the
story; yet, in the nature of things, its mighty central fact could not come home to him with
the force and absorbing effect it came to Ben-Hur. He was an Arab, whose interest in the consequences
was but general; on the other hand, Ben-Hur was an Israelite and a Jew, with more than a special
interest in--if the solecism can be pardoned--the truth of the fact. He laid hold of the circumstance
with a purely Jewish mind.

From his cradle, let it be remembered, he had heard of the Messiah; at the colleges he had
been made familiar with all that was known of that Being at once the hope, the fear, and the
peculiar glory of the chosen people; the prophets from the first to the last of the heroic
line foretold him; and the coming had been, and yet was, the theme of endless exposition with
the rabbis--in the synagogues, in the schools, in the Temple, of fast-days and feast-days,
in public and in private, the national teachers expounded and kept expounding until all the
children of Abraham, wherever their lots were cast, bore the Messiah in expectation, and by
it literally, and with iron severity, ruled and moulded their lives.

Doubtless, it will be understood from this that there was much argument among the Jews themselves
about the Messiah, and so there was; but the disputation was all limited to one point, and
one only--when would he come?

Disquisition is for the preacher; whereas the writer is but telling a tale, and that he may
not lose his character, the explanation he is making requires notice merely of a point connected
with the Messiah about which the unanimity among the chosen people was matter of marvellous
astonishment: he was to be, when come, the KING OF THE JEWS--their political King, their Caesar.
By their instrumentality he was to make armed conquest of the earth, and then, for their profit
and in the name of God, hold it down forever. On this faith, dear reader, the Pharisees or
Separatists--the latter being rather a political term--in the cloisters and around the altars
of the Temple, built an edifice of hope far overtopping the dream of the Macedonian. His but
covered the earth; theirs covered the earth and filled the skies; that is to say, in their
bold, boundless fantasy of blasphemous egotism, God the Almighty was in effect to suffer them
for their uses to nail him by the ear to a door in sign of eternal servitude.

Returning directly to Ben-Hur, it is to be observed now that there were two circumstances in
his life the result of which had been to keep him in a state comparatively free from the influence
and hard effects of the audacious faith of his Separatist countrymen.

In the first place, his father followed the faith of the Sadducees, who may, in a general way,
be termed the Liberals of their time. They had some loose opinions in denial of the soul. They
were strict constructionists and rigorous observers of the Law as found in the books of Moses;
but they held the vast mass of Rabbinical addenda to those books in derisive contempt. They
were unquestionably a sect, yet their religion was more a philosophy than a creed; they did
not deny themselves the enjoyments of life, and saw many admirable methods and productions
among the Gentile divisions of the race. In politics they were the active opposition of the
Separatists. In the natural order of things, these circumstances and conditions, opinions and
peculiarities, would have descended to the son as certainly and really as any portion of his
father's estate; and, as we have seen, he was actually in course of acquiring them, when the
second saving event overtook him.

Upon a youth of Ben-Hur's mind and temperament the influence of five years of affluent life
in Rome can be appreciated best by recalling that the great city was then, in fact, the meeting-place
of the nations--their meeting-place politically and commercially, as well as for the indulgence
of pleasure without restraint. Round and round the golden mile-stone in front of the Forum--now
in gloom of eclipse, now in unapproachable splendor--flowed all the active currents of humanity.
If excellences of manner, refinements of society, attainments of intellect, and glory of achievement
made no impression upon him, how could he, as the son of Arrius, pass day after day, through
a period so long, from the beautiful villa near Misenum into the receptions of Caesar, and
be wholly uninfluenced by what he saw there of kings, princes, ambassadors, hostages, and delegates,
suitors all of them from every known land, waiting humbly the yes or no which was to make or
unmake them? As mere assemblages, to be sure, there was nothing to compare with the gatherings
at Jerusalem in celebration of the Passover; yet when he sat under the purple velaria of the
Circus Maximus one of three hundred and fifty thousand spectators, he must have been visited
by the thought that possibly there might be some branches of the family of man worthy divine
consideration, if not mercy, though they were of the uncircumcised--some, by their sorrows,
and, yet worse, by their hopelessness in the midst of sorrows, fitted for brotherhood in the
promises to his countrymen.

That he should have had such a thought under such circumstances was but natural; we think so
much, at least, will be admitted: but when the reflection came to him, and he gave himself
up to it, he could not have been blind to a certain distinction. The wretchedness of the masses,
and their hopeless condition, had no relation whatever to religion; their murmurs and groans
were not against their gods or for want of gods. In the oak-woods of Britain the Druids held
their followers; Odin and Freya maintained their godships in Gaul and Germany and among the
Hyperboreans; Egypt was satisfied with her crocodiles and Anubis; the Persians were yet devoted
to Ormuzd and Ahriman, holding them in equal honor; in hope of the Nirvana, the Hindoos moved
on patient as ever in the rayless paths of Brahm; the beautiful Greek mind, in pauses of philosophy,
still sang the heroic gods of Homer; while in Rome nothing was so common and cheap as gods.
According to whim, the masters of the world, because they were masters, carried their worship
and offerings indifferently from altar to altar, delighted in the pandemonium they had erected.
Their discontent, if they were discontented, was with the number of gods; for, after borrowing
all the divinities of the earth they proceeded to deify their Caesars, and vote them altars
and holy service. No, the unhappy condition was not from religion, but misgovernment and usurpations
and countless tyrannies. The Avernus men had been tumbled into, and were praying to be relieved
from, was terribly but essentially political. The supplication--everywhere alike, in Lodinum,
Alexandria, Athens, Jerusalem--was for a king to conquer with, not a god to worship.

Studying the situation after two thousand years, we can see and say that religiously there
was no relief from the universal confusion except some God could prove himself a true God,
and a masterful one, and come to the rescue; but the people of the time, even the discerning
and philosophical, discovered no hope except in crushing Rome; that done, the relief would
follow in restorations and reorganizations; therefore they prayed, conspired, rebelled, fought,
and died, drenching the soil to-day with blood, to-morrow with tears--and always with the same
result.

It remains to be said now that Ben-Hur was in agreement with the mass of men of his time not
Romans. The five years' residence in the capital served him with opportunity to see and study
the miseries of the subjugated world; and in full belief that the evils which afflicted it
were political, and to be cured only by the sword, he was going forth to fit himself for a
part in the day of resort to the heroic remedy. By practice of arms he was a perfect soldier;
but war has its higher fields, and he who would move successfully in them must know more than
to defend with shield and thrust with spear. In those fields the general finds his tasks, the
greatest of which is the reduction of the many into one, and that one himself; the consummate
captain is a fighting-man armed with an army. This conception entered into the scheme of life
to which he was further swayed by the reflection that the vengeance he dreamed of, in connection
with his individual wrongs, would be more surely found in some of the ways of war than in any
pursuit of peace.

The feelings with which he listened to Balthasar can be now understood. The story touched two
of the most sensitive points of his being so they rang within him. His heart beat fast--and
faster still when, searching himself, he found not a doubt either that the recital was true
in every particular, or that the Child so miraculously found was the Messiah. Marvelling much
that Israel rested so dead to the revelation, and that he had never heard of it before that
day, two questions presented themselves to him as centring all it was at that moment further
desirable to know:

Where was the Child then?

And what was his mission?

With apologies for the interruptions, he proceeded to draw out the opinions of Balthasar, who
was in nowise loath to speak.

CHAPTER XVI

"If I could answer you," Balthasar said, in his simple, earnest, devout way--"oh, if I knew
where he is, how quickly I would go to him! The seas should not stay me, nor the mountains."

"You have tried to find him, then?" asked Ben-Hur.

A smile flitted across the face of the Egyptian.

"The first task I charged myself with after leaving the shelter given me in the desert"--Balthasar
cast a grateful look at Ilderim--"was to learn what became of the Child. But a year had passed,
and I dared not go up to Judea in person, for Herod still held the throne bloody-minded as
ever. In Egypt, upon my return, there were a few friends to believe the wonderful things I
told them of what I had seen and heard--a few who rejoiced with me that a Redeemer was born--a
few who never tired of the story. Some of them came up for me looking after the Child. They
went first to Bethlehem, and found there the khan and the cave; but the steward--he who sat
at the gate the night of the birth, and the night we came following the star--was gone. The
king had taken him away, and he was no more seen."

"But they found some proofs, surely," said Ben-Hur, eagerly.

"Yes, proofs written in blood--a village in mourning; mothers yet crying for their little ones.
You must know, when Herod heard of our flight, he sent down and slew the youngest-born of the
children of Bethlehem. Not one escaped. The faith of my messengers was confirmed; but they
came to me saying the Child was dead, slain with the other innocents."

"Dead!" exclaimed Ben-Hur, aghast. "Dead, sayest thou?"

"Nay, my son, I did not say so. I said they, my messengers, told me the Child was dead. I did
not believe the report then; I do not believe it now."

"I see--thou hast some special knowledge."

"Not so, not so," said Balthasar, dropping his gaze. "The Spirit was to go with us no farther
than to the Child. When we came out of the cave, after our presents were given and we had seen
the babe, we looked first thing for the star; but it was gone, and we knew we were left to
ourselves. The last inspiration of the Holy One--the last I can recall--was that which sent
us to Ilderim for safety."

"Yes," said the sheik, fingering his beard nervously. "You told me you were sent to me by a
Spirit--I remember it."

"I have no special knowledge," Balthasar continued, observing the dejection which had fallen
upon Ben-Hur; "but, my son, I have given the matter much thought--thought continuing through
years, inspired by faith, which, I assure you, calling God for witness, is as strong in me
now as in the hour I heard the voice of the Spirit calling me by the shore of the lake. If
you will listen, I will tell you why I believe the Child is living."

Both Ilderim and Ben-Hur looked assent, and appeared to summon their faculties that they might
understand as well as hear. The interest reached the servants, who drew near to the divan,
and stood listening. Throughout the tent there was the profoundest silence.

"We three believe in God."

Balthasar bowed his head as he spoke.

"And he is the Truth," he resumed. "His word is God. The hills may turn to dust, and the seas
be drunk dry by south winds; but his word shall stand, because it is the Truth."

The utterance was in a manner inexpressibly solemn. Seest thou now? If the Child be dead, there
is no agent to bring the Redemption about, and the word is naught, and God--nay, I dare not
say it!"

He threw up both hands in horror.

"The Redemption was the work for which the Child was born; and so long as the promise abides,
not even death can separate him from his work until it is fulfilled, or at least in the way
of fulfilment. Take you that now as one reason for my belief; then give me further attention."

The good man paused.

"Wilt thou not taste the wine? It is at thy hand--see," said Ilderim, respectfully.

Balthasar drank, and, seeming refreshed, continued:

"The Savior I saw was born of woman, in nature like us, and subject to all our ills--even death.
Let that stand as the first proposition. Consider next the work set apart to him. Was it not
a performance for which only a man is fitted?--a man wise, firm, discreet--a man, not a child?
To become such he had to grow as we grow. Bethink you now of the dangers his life was subject
to in the interval--the long interval between childhood and maturity. The existing powers were
his enemies; Herod was his enemy; and what would Rome have been? And as for Israel--that he
should not be accepted by Israel was the motive for cutting him off. See you now. What better
way was there to take care of his life in the helpless growing time than by passing him into
obscurity? Wherefore I say to myself, and to my listening faith, which is never moved except
by yearning of love--I say he is not dead, but lost; and, his work remaining undone, he will
come again. There you have the reasons for my belief. Are they not good?"

Ilderim's small Arab eyes were bright with understanding, and Ben-Hur, lifted from his dejection,
said heartily, "I, at least, may not gainsay them. What further, pray?"

"Hast thou not enough, my son? Well," he began, in calmer tone, "seeing that the reasons were
good--more plainly, seeing it was God's will that the Child should not be found--I settled
my faith into the keeping of patience, and took to waiting." He raised his eyes, full of holy
trust, and broke off abstractedly--"I am waiting now. He lives, keeping well his mighty secret.
What though I cannot go to him, or name the hill or the vale of his abiding-place? He lives--it
may be as the fruit in blossom, it may be as the fruit just ripening; but by the certainty
there is in the promise and reason of God, I know he lives."

A thrill of awe struck Ben-Hur--a thrill which was but the dying of his half-formed doubt.

"Where thinkest thou he is?" he asked, in a low voice, and hesitating, like one who feels upon
his lips the pressure of a sacred silence.

Balthasar looked at him kindly, and replied, his mind not entirely freed from its abstraction,

"In my house on the Nile, so close to the river that the passers-by in boats see it and its
reflection in the water at the same time--in my house, a few weeks ago, I sat thinking. A man
thirty years old, I said to myself, should have his fields of life all ploughed, and his planting
well done; for after that it is summer-time, with space scarce enough to ripen his sowing.
The Child, I said further, is now twenty-seven--his time to plant must be at hand. I asked
myself, as you here asked me, my son, and answered by coming hither, as to a good resting-place
close by the land thy fathers had from God. Where else should he appear, if not in Judea? In
what city should he begin his work, if not in Jerusalem? Who should be first to receive the
blessings he is to bring, if not the children of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob; in love, at least,
the children of the Lord? If I were bidden go seek him, I would search well the hamlets and
villages on the slopes of the mountains of Judea and Galilee falling eastwardly into the valley
of the Jordan. He is there now. Standing in a door or on a hill-top, only this evening he saw
the sun set one day nearer the time when he himself shall become the light of the world."

Balthasar ceased, with his hand raised and finger pointing as if at Judea. All the listeners,
even the dull servants outside the divan, affected by his fervor, were startled as if by a
majestic presence suddenly apparent within the tent. Nor did the sensation die away at once:
of those at the table, each sat awhile thinking. The spell was finally broken by Ben-Hur.

"I see, good Balthasar," he said, "that thou hast been much and strangely favored. I see, also,
that thou art a wise man indeed. It is not in my power to tell how grateful I am for the things
thou hast told me. I am warned of the coming of great events, and borrow somewhat from thy
faith. Complete the obligation, I pray thee, by telling further of the mission of him for whom
thou art waiting, and for whom from this night I too shall wait as becomes a believing son
of Judah. He is to be a Savior, thou saidst; is he not to be King of the Jews also?"

"My son," said Balthasar, in his benignant way, "the mission is yet a purpose in the bosom
of God. All I think about it is wrung from the words of the Voice in connection with the prayer
to which they were in answer. Shall we refer to them again?"

"Thou art the teacher."

"The cause of my disquiet," Balthasar began, calmly--"that which made me a preacher in Alexandria
and in the villages of the Nile; that which drove me at last into the solitude where the Spirit
found me--was the fallen condition of men, occasioned, as I believed, by loss of the knowledge
of God. I sorrowed for the sorrows of my kind--not of one class, but all of them. So utterly
were they fallen it seemed to me there could be no Redemption unless God himself would make
it his work; and I prayed him to come, and that I might see him. 'Thy good works have conquered.
The Redemption cometh; thou shalt see the Savior'--thus the Voice spake; and with the answer
I went up to Jerusalem rejoicing. Now, to whom is the Redemption? To all the world. And how
shall it be? Strengthen thy faith, my son! Men say, I know, that there will be no happiness
until Rome is razed from her hills. That is to say, the ills of the time are not, as I thought
them, from ignorance of God, but from the misgovernment of rulers. Do we need to be told that
human governments are never for the sake of religion? How many kings have you heard of who
were better than their subjects? Oh no, no! The Redemption cannot be for a political purpose--to
pull down rulers and powers, and vacate their places merely that others may take and enjoy
them. If that were all of it, the wisdom of God would cease to be surpassing. I tell you, though
it be but the saying of blind to blind, he that comes is to be a Savior of souls; and the Redemption
means God once more on earth, and righteousness, that his stay here may be tolerable to himself."

Disappointment showed plainly on Ben-Hur's face--his head drooped; and if he was not convinced,
he yet felt himself incapable that moment of disputing the opinion of the Egyptian. Not so Ilderim.

"By the splendor of God!" he cried, impulsively, "the judgment does away with all custom. The
ways of the world are fixed, and cannot be changed. There must be a leader in every community
clothed with power, else there is no reform."

Balthasar received the burst gravely.

"Thy wisdom, good sheik, is of the world; and thou dost forget that it is from the ways of
the world we are to be redeemed. Man as a subject is the ambition of a king; the soul of a
man for its salvation is the desire of a God."

Ilderim, though silenced, shook his head, unwilling to believe. Ben-Hur took up the argument
for him.

"Father--I call thee such by permission," he said--"for whom wert thou required to ask at the
gates of Jerusalem?"

The sheik threw him a grateful look.

"I was to ask of the people," said Balthasar, quietly, "'Where is he that is born King of the
Jews?'"

"And you saw him in the cave by Bethlehem?"

"We saw and worshipped him, and gave him presents--Melchior, gold; Gaspar, frankincense; and
I, myrrh."

"When thou dost speak of fact, O father, to hear thee is to believe," said Ben-Hur; "but in
the matter of opinion, I cannot understand the kind of king thou wouldst make of the Child--I
cannot separate the ruler from his powers and duties."

"Son," said Balthasar, "we have the habit of studying closely the things which chance to lie
at our feet, giving but a look at the greater objects in the distance. Thou seest now but the
title--KING OF THE JEWS; wilt thou lift thine eyes to the mystery beyond it, the stumbling-block
will disappear. Of the title, a word. Thy Israel hath seen better days--days in which God called
thy people endearingly his people, and dealt with them through prophets. Now, if in those days
he promised them the Savior I saw--promised him as KING OF THE JEWS--the appearance must be
according to the promise, if only for the word's sake. Ah, thou seest the reason of my question
at the gate!--thou seest, and I will no more of it, but pass on. It may be, next, thou art
regarding the dignity of the Child; if so, bethink thee--what is it to be a successor of Herod?--by
the world's standard of honor, what? Could not God better by his beloved? If thou canst think
of the Almighty Father in want of a title, and stooping to borrow the inventions of men, why
was I not bidden ask for a Caesar at once? Oh, for the substance of that whereof we speak,
look higher, I pray thee! Ask rather of what he whom we await shall be king; for I do tell,
my son, that is the key to the mystery, which no man shall understand without the key."

Balthasar raised his eyes devoutly.

"There is a kingdom on the earth, though it is not of it--a kingdom of wider bounds than the
earth--wider than the sea and the earth, though they were rolled together as finest gold and
spread by the beating of hammers. Its existence is a fact as our hearts are facts, and we journey
through it from birth to death without seeing it; nor shall any man see it until he hath first
known his own soul; for the kingdom is not for him, but for his soul. And in its dominion there
is glory such as hath not entered imagination--original, incomparable, impossible of increase."

"What thou sayest, father, is a riddle to me," said Ben-Hur. "I never heard of such a kingdom."

"Nor did I," said Ilderim.

"And I may not tell more of it," Balthasar added, humbly dropping his eyes. "What it is, what
it is for, how it may be reached, none can know until the Child comes to take possession of
it as his own. He brings the key of the viewless gate, which he will open for his beloved,
among whom will be all who love him, for of such only the redeemed will be."

After that there was a long silence, which Balthasar accepted as the end of the conversation.

"Good sheik," he said, in his placid way, "to-morrow or the next day I will go up to the city
for a time. My daughter wishes to see the preparations for the games. I will speak further
about the time of our going. And, my son, I will see you again. To you both, peace and good-night."

They all arose from the table. The sheik and Ben-Hur remained looking after the Egyptian until
he was conducted out of the tent.

"Sheik Ilderim," said Ben-Hur then, "I have heard strange things tonight. Give me leave, I
pray, to walk by the lake that I may think of them."

"Go; and I will come after you."

They washed their hands again; after which, at a sign from the master, a servant brought Ben-Hur
his shoes, and directly he went out.

CHAPTER XVII

Up a little way from the dower there was a cluster of palms, which threw its shade half in
the water, half on the land. A bulbul sang from the branches a song of invitation. Ben-Hur
stopped beneath to listen. At any other time the notes of the bird would have driven thought
away; but the story of the Egyptian was a burden of wonder, and he was a laborer carrying it,
and, like other laborers, there was to him no music in the sweetest music until mind and body
were happily attuned by rest.

The night was quiet. Not a ripple broke upon the shore. The old stars of the old East were
all out, each in its accustomed place; and there was summer everywhere--on land, on lake, in
the sky.

Ben-Hur's imagination was heated, his feelings aroused, his will all unsettled.

So the palms, the sky, the air, seemed to him of the far south zone into which Balthasar had
been driven by despair for men; the lake, with its motionless surface, was a suggestion of
the Nilotic mother by which the good man stood praying when the Spirit made its radiant appearance.
Had all these accessories of the miracle come to Ben-Hur? or had he been transferred to them?
And what if the miracle should be repeated--and to him? He feared, yet wished, and even waited
for the vision. When at last his feverish mood was cooled, permitting him to become himself,
he was able to think.

His scheme of life has been explained. In all reflection about it heretofore there had been
one hiatus which he had not been able to bridge or fill up--one so broad he could see but vaguely
to the other side of it. When, finally, he was graduated a captain as well as a soldier, to
what object should he address his efforts? Revolution he contemplated, of course; but the processes
of revolution have always been the same, and to lead men into them there have always been required,
first, a cause or presence to enlist adherents; second, an end, or something as a practical
achievement. As a rule he fights well who has wrongs to redress; but vastly better fights he
who, with wrongs as a spur, has also steadily before him a glorious result in prospect--a result
in which he can discern balm for wounds, compensation for valor, remembrance and gratitude
in the event of death.

To determine the sufficiency of either the cause or the end, it was needful that Ben-Hur should
study the adherents to whom he looked when all was ready for action. Very naturally, they were
his countrymen. The wrongs of Israel were to every son of Abraham, and each one was a cause
vastly holy, vastly inspiring.

Ay, the cause was there; but the end--what should it be?

The hours and days he had given this branch of his scheme were past calculation--all with the
same conclusion--a dim, uncertain, general idea of national liberty. Was it sufficient? He
could not say no, for that would have been the death of his hope; he shrank from saying yes,
because his judgment taught him better. He could not assure himself even that Israel was able
single-handed to successfully combat Rome. He knew the resources of that great enemy; he knew
her art was superior to her resources. A universal alliance might suffice, but, alas! that
was impossible, except--and upon the exception how long and earnestly he had dwelt!--except
a hero would come from one of the suffering nations, and by martial successes accomplish a
renown to fill the whole earth. What glory to Judea could she prove the Macedonia of the new
Alexander! Alas, again! Under the rabbis valor was possible, but not discipline. And then the
taunt of Messala in the garden of Herod--"All you conquer in the six days, you lose on the
seventh."

So it happened he never approached the chasm thinking to surmount it, but he was beaten back;
and so incessantly had he failed in the object that he had about given it over, except as a
thing of chance. The hero might be discovered in his day, or he might not. God only knew. Such
his state of mind, there need be no lingering upon the effect of Malluch's skeleton recital
of the story of Balthasar. He heard it with a bewildering satisfaction--a feeling that here
was the solution of the trouble--here was the requisite hero found at last; and he a son of
the Lion tribe, and King of the Jews! Behind the hero, lo! the world in arms.

The king implied a kingdom; he was to be a warrior glorious as David, a ruler wise and magnificent
as Solomon; the kingdom was to be a power against which Rome was to dash itself to pieces.
There would be colossal war, and the agonies of death and birth--then peace, meaning, of course,
Judean dominion forever.

Ben-Hur's heart beat hard as for an instant he had a vision of Jerusalem the capital of the
world, and Zion, the site of the throne of the Universal Master.

It seemed to the enthusiast rare fortune that the man who had seen the king was at the tent
to which he was going. He could see him there, and hear him, and learn of him what all he knew
of the coming change, especially all he knew of the time of its happening. If it were at hand,
the campaign with Maxentius should be abandoned; and he would go and set about organizing and
arming the tribes, that Israel might be ready when the great day of the restoration began to break.

Now, as we have seen, from Balthasar himself Ben-Hur had the marvelous story. Was he satisfied?

There was a shadow upon him deeper than that of the cluster of palms--the shadow of a great
uncertainty, which--take note, O reader! which pertained more to the kingdom than the king.

"What of this kingdom? And what is it to be?" Ben-Hur asked himself in thought.

Thus early arose the questions which were to follow the Child to his end, and survive him on
earth--incomprehensible in his day, a dispute in this--an enigma to all who do not or cannot
understand that every man is two in one--a deathless Soul and a mortal Body.

"What is it to be?" he asked.

For us, O reader, the Child himself has answered; but for Ben-Hur there were only the words
of Balthasar, "On the earth, yet not of it--not for men, but for their souls--a dominion, nevertheless,
of unimaginable glory."

What wonder the hapless youth found the phrases but the darkening of a riddle?

"The hand of man is not in it," he said, despairingly. "Nor has the king of such a kingdom
use for men; neither toilers, nor councillors, nor soldiers. The earth must die or be made
anew, and for government new principles must be discovered--something besides armed hands--something
in place of Force. But what?"

Again, O reader!

That which we will not see, he could not. The power there is in Love had not yet occurred to
any man; much less had one come saying directly that for government and its objects--peace
and order--Love is better and mightier than Force.

In the midst of his reverie a hand was laid upon his shoulder.

"I have a word to say, O son of Arrius," said Ilderim, stopping by his side--"a word, and then
I must return, for the night is going."

"I give you welcome, sheik."

"As to the things you have heard but now," said Ilderim, almost without pause, "take in belief
all save that relating to the kind of kingdom the Child will set up when he comes; as to so
much keep virgin mind until you hear Simonides the merchant--a good man here in Antioch, to
whom I will make you known. The Egyptian gives you coinage of his dreams which are too good
for the earth; Simonides is wiser; he will ring you the sayings of your prophets, giving book
and page, so you cannot deny that the Child will be King of the Jews in fact--ay, by the splendor
of God! a king as Herod was, only better and far more magnificent. And then, see you, we will
taste the sweetness of vengeance. I have said. Peace to you!"

"Stay--sheik!"

If Ilderim heard his call, he did not stay.

"Simonides again!" said Ben-Hur, bitterly. "Simonides here, Simonides there; from this one
now, then from that! I am like to be well ridden by my father's servant, who knows at least
to hold fast that which is mine; wherefore he is richer, if indeed he be not wiser, than the
Egyptian. By the covenant! it is not to the faithless a man should go to find a faith to keep--and
I will not. But, hark! singing--and the voice a woman's--or an angel's! It comes this way."

Down the lake towards the dower came a woman singing. Her voice floated along the hushed water
melodious as a flute, and louder growing each instant. Directly the dipping of oars was heard
in slow measure; a little later the words were distinguishable--words in purest Greek, best
fitted of all the tongues of the day for the expression of passionate grief.

  THE LAMENT.
  (Egyptian.)

  I sigh as I sing for the story land
    Across the Syrian sea.
  The odorous winds from the musky sand
    Were breaths of life to me.
  They play with the plumes of the whispering palm
    For me, alas! no more;
  Nor more does the Nile in the moonlit calm
    Moan past the Memphian shore.

  O Nilus! thou god of my fainting soul!
    In dreams thou comest to me;
  And, dreaming, I play with the lotus bowl,
    And sing old songs to thee;
  And hear from afar the Memnonian strain,
    And calls from dear Simbel;
  And wake to a passion of grief and pain
    That e'er I said--Farewell!

At the conclusion of the song the singer was past the cluster of palms. The last word--farewell--floated
past Ben-Hur weighted with all the sweet sorrow of parting. The passing of the boat was as
the passing of a deeper shadow into the deeper night.

Ben-Hur drew a long breath hardly distinguishable from a sigh.

"I know her by the song--the daughter of Balthasar. How beautiful it was! And how beautiful
is she!"

He recalled her large eyes curtained slightly by the drooping lids, the cheeks oval and rosy
rich, the lips full and deep with dimpling in the corners, and all the grace of the tall lithe
figure.

"How beautiful she is!" he repeated.

And his heart made answer by a quickening of its movement.

Then, almost the same instant, another face, younger and quite as beautiful--more childlike
and tender, if not so passionate--appeared as if held up to him out of the lake.

"Esther!" he said, smiling. "As I wished, a star has been sent to me."

He turned, and passed slowly back to the tent.

His life had been crowded with griefs and with vengeful preparations--too much crowded for
love. Was this the beginning of a happy change?

And if the influence went with him into the tent, whose was it? Esther had given him a cup.
So had the Egyptian. And both had come to him at the same time under the palms.

Which?

BOOK FIFTH

  "Only the actions of the just
  Smell sweet and blossom in the dust."
                                 SHIRLEY.

CHAPTER I

The morning after the bacchanalia in the saloon of the palace, the divan was covered with young
patricians. Maxentius might come, and the city throng to receive him; the legion might descend
from Mount Sulpius in glory of arms and armor; from Nymphaeum to Omphalus there might be ceremonial
splendors to shame the most notable ever before seen or heard of in the gorgeous East; yet
would the many continue to sleep ignominiously on the divan where they had fallen or been carelessly
tumbled by the indifferent slaves; that they would be able to take part in the reception that
day was about as possible as for the lay-figures in the studio of a modern artist to rise and
go bonneted and plumed through the one, two, three of a waltz.

Not all, however, who participated in the orgy were in the shameful condition. When dawn began
to peer through the skylights of the saloon, Messala arose, and took the chaplet from his head,
in sign that the revel was at end; then he gathered his robe about him, gave a last look at
the scene, and, without a word, departed for his quarters. Cicero could not have retired with
more gravity from a night-long senatorial debate.

Three hours afterwards two couriers entered his room, and from his own hand received each a
despatch, sealed and in duplicate, and consisting chiefly of a letter to Valerius Gratus, the
procurator, still resident in Caesarea. The importance attached to the speedy and certain delivery
of the paper may be inferred. One courier was to proceed overland, the other by sea; both were
to make the utmost haste.

It is of great concern now that the reader should be fully informed of the contents of the
letter thus forwarded, and it is accordingly given:

"ANTIOCH, XII. Kal. Jul.

"Messala to Gratus.

"O my Midas!

"I pray thou take no offense at the address, seeing it is one of love and gratitude, and an
admission that thou art most fortunate among men; seeing, also, that thy ears are as they were
derived from thy mother, only proportionate to thy matured condition.

"O my Midas!

"I have to relate to thee an astonishing event, which, though as yet somewhat in the field
of conjecture, will, I doubt not, justify thy instant consideration.

"Allow me first to revive thy recollection. Remember, a good many years ago, a family of a
prince of Jerusalem, incredibly ancient and vastly rich--by name Ben-Hur. If thy memory have
a limp or ailment of any kind, there is, if I mistake not, a wound on thy head which may help
thee to a revival of the circumstance.

"Next, to arouse thy interest. In punishment of the attempt upon thy life--for dear repose
of conscience, may all the gods forbid it should ever prove to have been an accident!--the
family were seized and summarily disposed of, and their property confiscated. And inasmuch,
O my Midas! as the action had the approval of our Caesar, who was as just as he was wise--be
there flowers upon his altars forever!--there should be no shame in referring to the sums which
were realized to us respectively from that source, for which it is not possible I can ever
cease to be grateful to thee, certainly not while I continue, as at present, in the uninterrupted
enjoyment of the part which fell to me.

"In vindication of thy wisdom--a quality for which, as I am now advised, the son of Gordius,
to whom I have boldly likened thee, was never distinguished among men or gods--I recall further
that thou didst make disposition of the family of Hur, both of us at the time supposing the
plan hit upon to be the most effective possible for the purposes in view, which were silence
and delivery over to inevitable but natural death. Thou wilt remember what thou didst with
the mother and sister of the malefactor; yet, if now I yield to a desire to learn whether they
be living or dead, I know, from knowing the amiability of thy nature, O my Gratus, that thou
wilt pardon me as one scarcely less amiable than thyself.

"As more immediately essential to the present business, however, I take the liberty of inviting
to thy remembrance that the actual criminal was sent to the galleys a slave for life--so the
precept ran; and it may serve to make the event which I am about to relate the more astonishing
by saying here that I saw and read the receipt for his body delivered in course to the tribune
commanding a galley.

"Thou mayst begin now to give me more especial heed, O my most excellent Phrygian!

"Referring to the limit of life at the oar, the outlaw thus justly disposed of should be dead,
or, better speaking, some one of the three thousand Oceanides should have taken him to husband
at least five years ago. And if thou wilt excuse a momentary weakness, O most virtuous and
tender of men! inasmuch as I loved him in childhood, and also because he was very handsome--I
used in much admiration to call him my Ganymede--he ought in right to have fallen into the
arms of the most beautiful daughter of the family. Of opinion, however, that he was certainly
dead, I have lived quite five years in calm and innocent enjoyment of the fortune for which
I am in a degree indebted to him. I make the admission of indebtedness without intending it
to diminish my obligation to thee.

"Now I am at the very point of interest.

"Last night, while acting as master of the feast for a party just from Rome--their extreme
youth and inexperience appealed to my compassion--I heard a singular story. Maxentius, the
consul, as you know, comes to-day to conduct a campaign against the Parthians. Of the ambitious
who are to accompany him there is one, a son of the late duumvir Quintus Arrius. I had occasion
to inquire about him particularly. When Arrius set out in pursuit of the pirates, whose defeat
gained him his final honors, he had no family; when he returned from the expedition, he brought
back with him an heir. Now be thou composed as becomes the owner of so many talents in ready
sestertii! The son and heir of whom I speak is he whom thou didst send to the galleys--the
very Ben-Hur who should have died at his oar five years ago--returned now with fortune and
rank, and possibly as a Roman citizen, to-- Well, thou art too firmly seated to be alarmed,
but I, O my Midas! I am in danger--no need to tell thee of what. Who should know, if thou dost not?

"Sayst thou to all this, tut-tut?

"When Arrius, the father, by adoption, of this apparition from the arms of the most beautiful
of the Oceanides (see above my opinion of what she should be), joined battle with the pirates,
his vessel was sunk, and but two of all her crew escaped drowning--Arrius himself and this
one, his heir.

"The officers who took them from the plank on which they were floating say the associate of
the fortunate tribune was a young man who, when lifted to the deck, was in the dress of a galley
slave.

"This should be convincing, to say least; but lest thou say tut-tut again, I tell thee, O my
Midas! that yesterday, by good chance--I have a vow to Fortune in consequence--I met the mysterious
son of Arrius face to face; and I declare now that, though I did not then recognize him, he
is the very Ben-Hur who was for years my playmate; the very Ben-Hur who, if he be a man, though
of the commonest grade, must this very moment of my writing be thinking of vengeance--for so
would I were I he--vengeance not to be satisfied short of life; vengeance for country, mother,
sister, self, and--I say it last, though thou mayst think it would be first--for fortune lost.

"By this time, O good my benefactor and friend! my Gratus! in consideration of thy sestertii
in peril, their loss being the worst which could befall one of thy high estate--I quit calling
thee after the foolish old King of Phrygia--by this time, I say (meaning after having read
me so far), I have faith to believe thou hast ceased saying tut-tut, and art ready to think
what ought to be done in such emergency.

"It were vulgar to ask thee now what shall be done. Rather let me say I am thy client; or,
better yet, thou art my Ulysses whose part it is to give me sound direction.

"And I please myself thinking I see thee when this letter is put into thy hand. I see thee
read it once; thy countenance all gravity, and then again with a smile; then, hesitation ended,
and thy judgment formed, it is this, or it is that; wisdom like Mercury's, promptitude like
Caesar's.

"The sun is now fairly risen. An hour hence two messengers will depart from my door, each with
a sealed copy hereof; one of them will go by land, the other by sea, so important do I regard
it that thou shouldst be early and particularly informed of the appearance of our enemy in
this part of our Roman world.

"I will await thy answer here.

"Ben-Hur's going and coming will of course be regulated by his master, the consul, who, though
he exert himself without rest day and night, cannot get away under a month. Thou knowest what
work it is to assemble and provide for an army destined to operate in a desolate, townless country.

"I saw the Jew yesterday in the Grove of Daphne; and if he be not there now, he is certainly
in the neighborhood, making it easy for me to keep him in eye. Indeed, wert thou to ask me
where he is now, I should say, with the most positive assurance, he is to be found at the old
Orchard of Palms, under the tent of the traitor Sheik Ilderim, who cannot long escape our strong
hand. Be not surprised if Maxentius, as his first measure, places the Arab on ship for forwarding
to Rome.

"I am so particular about the whereabouts of the Jew because it will be important to thee,
O illustrious! when thou comest to consider what is to be done; for already I know, and by
the knowledge I flatter myself I am growing in wisdom, that in every scheme involving human
action there are three elements always to be taken into account--time, place, and agency.

"If thou sayest this is the place, have thou then no hesitancy in trusting the business to
thy most loving friend, who would be thy aptest scholar as well.

MESSALA."

CHAPTER II

About the time the couriers departed from Messala's door with the despatches (it being yet
the early morning hour), Ben-Hur entered Ilderim's tent. He had taken a plunge into the lake,
and breakfasted, and appeared now in an under-tunic, sleeveless, and with skirt scarcely reaching
to the knee.

The sheik saluted him from the divan.

"I give thee peace, son of Arrius," he said, with admiration, for, in truth, he had never seen
a more perfect illustration of glowing, powerful, confident manhood. "I give thee peace and
good-will. The horses are ready, I am ready. And thou?"

"The peace thou givest me, good sheik, I give thee in return. I thank thee for so much good-will.
I am ready."

Ilderim clapped his hands.

"I will have the horses brought. Be seated."

"Are they yoked?"

"No."

"Then suffer me to serve myself," said Ben-Hur. "It is needful that I make the acquaintance
of thy Arabs. I must know them by name, O sheik, that I may speak to them singly; nor less
must I know their temper, for they are like men: if bold, the better of scolding; if timid,
the better of praise and flattery. Let the servants bring me the harness."

"And the chariot?" asked the sheik.

"I will let the chariot alone to-day. In its place, let them bring me a fifth horse, if thou
hast it; he should be barebacked, and fleet as the others."

Ilderim's wonder was aroused, and he summoned a servant immediately.

"Bid them bring the harness for the four," he said--"the harness for the four, and the bridle
for Sirius."

Ilderim then arose.

"Sirius is my love, and I am his, O son of Arrius. We have been comrades for twenty years--in
tent, in battle, in all stages of the desert we have been comrades. I will show him to you."

Going to the division curtain, he held it, while Ben-Hur passed under. The horses came to him
in a body. One with a small head, luminous eyes, neck like the segment of a bended bow, and
mighty chest, curtained thickly by a profusion of mane soft and wavy as a damsel's locks, nickered
low and gladly at sight of him.

"Good horse," said the sheik, patting the dark-brown cheek. "Good horse, good-morning." Turning
then to Ben-Hur, he added, "This is Sirius, father of the four here. Mira, the mother, awaits
our return, being too precious to be hazarded in a region where there is a stronger hand than
mine. And much I doubt," he laughed as he spoke--"much I doubt, O son of Arrius, if the tribe
could endure her absence. She is their glory; they worship her; did she gallop over them, they
would laugh. Ten thousand horsemen, sons of the desert, will ask to-day, 'Have you heard of
Mira?' And to the answer, 'She is well,' they will say, 'God is good! blessed be God!'"

"Mira--Sirius--names of stars, are they not, O sheik?" asked Ben-Hur, going to each of the
four, and to the sire, offering his hand.

"And why not?" replied Ilderim. "Wert thou ever abroad on the desert at night?"

"No."

"Then thou canst not know how much we Arabs depend upon the stars. We borrow their names in
gratitude, and give them in love. My fathers all had their Miras, as I have mine; and these
children are stars no less. There, see thou, is Rigel, and there Antares; that one is Atair,
and he whom thou goest to now is Aldebaran, the youngest of the brood, but none the worse of
that--no, not he! Against the wind he will carry thee till it roar in thy ears like Akaba;
and he will go where thou sayest, son of Arrius--ay, by the glory of Solomon! he will take
thee to the lion's jaws, if thou darest so much."

The harness was brought. With his own hands Ben-Hur equipped the horses; with his own hands
he led them out of the tent, and there attached the reins.

"Bring me Sirius," he said.

An Arab could not have better sprung to seat on the courser's back.

"And now the reins."

They were given him, and carefully separated.

"Good sheik," he said, "I am ready. Let a guide go before me to the field, and send some of
thy men with water."

There was no trouble at starting. The horses were not afraid. Already there seemed a tacit
understanding between them and the new driver, who had performed his part calmly, and with
the confidence which always begets confidence. The order of going was precisely that of driving,
except that Ben-Hur sat upon Sirius instead of standing in the chariot. Ilderim's spirit arose.
He combed his beard, and smiled with satisfaction as he muttered, "He is not a Roman, no, by
the splendor of God!" He followed on foot, the entire tenantry of the dowar--men, women, and
children--pouring after him, participants all in his solicitude, if not in his confidence.

The field, when reached, proved ample and well fitted for the training, which Ben-Hur began
immediately by driving the four at first slowly, and in perpendicular lines, and then in wide
circles. Advancing a step in the course, he put them next into a trot; again progressing, he
pushed into a gallop; at length he contracted the circles, and yet later drove eccentrically
here and there, right, left, forward, and without a break. An hour was thus occupied. Slowing
the gait to a walk, he drove up to Ilderim.

"The work is done, nothing now but practice," he said. "I give you joy, Sheik Ilderim, that
you have such servants as these. See," he continued, dismounting and going to the horses, "see,
the gloss of their red coats is without spot; they breathe lightly as when I began. I give
thee great joy, and it will go hard if"--he turned his flashing eyes upon the old man's face--"if
we have not the victory and our--"

He stopped, colored, bowed. At the sheik's side he observed, for the first time, Balthasar,
leaning upon his staff, and two women closely veiled. At one of the latter he looked a second
time, saying to himself, with a flutter about his heart, "'Tis she--'tis the Egyptian!" Ilderim
picked up his broken sentence--

"The victory, and our revenge!" Then he said aloud, "I am not afraid; I am glad. Son of Arrius,
thou art the man. Be the end like the beginning, and thou shalt see of what stuff is the lining
of the hand of an Arab who is able to give."

"I thank thee, good sheik," Ben-Hur returned, modestly. "Let the servants bring drink for the
horses."

With his own hands he gave the water.

Remounting Sirius, he renewed the training, going as before from walk to trot, from trot to
gallop; finally, he pushed the steady racers into the run, gradually quickening it to full
speed. The performance then became exciting; and there were applause for the dainty handling
of the reins, and admiration for the four, which were the same, whether they flew forward or
wheeled in varying curvature. In their action there were unity, power, grace, pleasure, all
without effort or sign of labor. The admiration was unmixed with pity or reproach, which would
have been as well bestowed upon swallows in their evening flight.

In the midst of the exercises, and the attention they received from all the bystanders, Malluch
came upon the ground, seeking the sheik.

"I have a message for you, O sheik," he said, availing himself of a moment he supposed favorable
for the speech--"a message from Simonides, the merchant."

"Simonides!" ejaculated the Arab. "Ah! 'tis well. May Abaddon take all his enemies!"

"He bade me give thee first the holy peace of God," Malluch continued; "and then this despatch,
with prayer that thou read it the instant of receipt."

Ilderim, standing in his place, broke the sealing of the package delivered to him, and from
a wrapping of fine linen took two letters, which he proceeded to read.

[No. 1.]

"Simonides to Sheik Ilderim.

"O friend!

"Assure thyself first of a place in my inner heart.

"Then--

"There is in thy dowar a youth of fair presence, calling himself the son of Arrius; and such
he is by adoption.

"He is very dear to me.

"He hath a wonderful history, which I will tell thee; come thou to-day or to-morrow, that I
may tell thee the history, and have thy counsel.

"Meantime, favor all his requests, so they be not against honor. Should there be need of reparation,
I am bound to thee for it.

"That I have interest in this youth, keep thou private.

"Remember me to thy other guest. He, his daughter, thyself, and all whom thou mayst choose
to be of thy company, must depend upon me at the Circus the day of the games. I have seats
already engaged.

"To thee and all thine, peace.

"What should I be, O my friend, but thy friend?

"SIMONIDES."

[No. 2.]

"Simonides to Sheik Ilderim.

"O friend!

"Out of the abundance of my experience, I send you a word.

"There is a sign which all persons not Romans, and who have moneys or goods subject to despoilment,
accept as warning--that is, the arrival at a seat of power of some high Roman official charged
with authority.

"To-day comes the Consul Maxentius.

"Be thou warned!

"Another word of advice.

"A conspiracy, to be of effect against thee, O friend, must include the Herods as parties;
thou hast great properties in their dominions.

"Wherefore keep thou watch.

"Send this morning to thy trusty keepers of the roads leading south from Antioch, and bid them
search every courier going and coming; if they find private despatches relating to thee or
thine affairs, THOU SHOULDST SEE THEM.

"You should have received this yesterday, though it is not too late, if you act promptly.

"If couriers left Antioch this morning, your messengers know the byways, and can get before
them with your orders.

"Do not hesitate.

"Burn this after reading.

"O my friend! thy friend,

"SIMONIDES."

Ilderim read the letters a second time, and refolded them in the linen wrap, and put the package
under his girdle.

The exercises in the field continued but a little longer--in all about two hours. At their
conclusion, Ben-Hur brought the four to a walk, and drove to Ilderim.

"With leave, O sheik," he said, "I will return thy Arabs to the tent, and bring them out again
this afternoon."

Ilderim walked to him as he sat on Sirius, and said, "I give them to you, son of Arrius, to
do with as you will until after the games. You have done with them in two hours what the Roman--may
jackals gnaw his bones fleshless!--could not in as many weeks. We will win--by the splendor
of God, we will win!"

At the tent Ben-Hur remained with the horses while they were being cared for; then, after a
plunge in the lake and a cup of arrack with the sheik, whose flow of spirits was royally exuberant,
he dressed himself in his Jewish garb again, and walked with Malluch on into the Orchard.

There was much conversation between the two, not all of it important. One part, however, must
not be overlooked. Ben-Hur was speaking.

"I will give you," he said, "an order for my property stored in the khan this side the river
by the Seleucian Bridge. Bring it to me to-day, if you can. And, good Malluch--if I do not
overtask you--"

Malluch protested heartily his willingness to be of service.

"Thank you, Malluch, thank you," said Ben-Hur. "I will take you at your word, remembering that
we are brethren of the old tribe, and that the enemy is a Roman. First, then--as you are a
man of business, which I much fear Sheik Ilderim is not--"

"Arabs seldom are," said Malluch, gravely.

"Nay, I do not impeach their shrewdness, Malluch. It is well, however, to look after them.
To save all forfeit or hindrance in connection with the race, you would put me perfectly at
rest by going to the office of the Circus, and seeing that he has complied with every preliminary
rule; and if you can get a copy of the rules, the service may be of great avail to me. I would
like to know the colors I am to wear, and particularly the number of the crypt I am to occupy
at the starting; if it be next Messala's on the right or left, it is well; if not, and you
can have it changed so as to bring me next the Roman, do so. Have you good memory, Malluch?"

"It has failed me, but never, son of Arrius, where the heart helped it as now."

"I will venture, then, to charge you with one further service. I saw yesterday that Messala
was proud of his chariot, as he might be, for the best of Caesar's scarcely surpass it. Can
you not make its display an excuse which will enable you to find if it be light or heavy? I
would like to have its exact weight and measurements--and, Malluch, though you fail in all
else, bring me exactly the height his axle stands above the ground. You understand, Malluch?
I do not wish him to have any actual advantage of me. I do not care for his splendor; if I
beat him, it will make his fall the harder, and my triumph the more complete. If there are
advantages really important, I want them."

"I see, I see!" said Malluch. "A line dropped from the centre of the axle is what you want."

"Thou hast it; and be glad, Malluch--it is the last of my commissions. Let us return to the dowar."

At the door of the tent they found a servant replenishing the smoke-stained bottles of leben
freshly made, and stopped to refresh themselves. Shortly afterwards Malluch returned to the city.

During their absence, a messenger well mounted had been despatched with orders as suggested
by Simonides. He was an Arab, and carried nothing written.

CHAPTER III

"Iras, the daughter of Balthasar, sends me with salutation and a message," said a servant to
Ben-Hur, who was taking his ease in the tent.

"Give me the message."

"Would it please you to accompany her upon the lake?"

"I will carry the answer myself. Tell her so."

His shoes were brought him, and in a few minutes Ben-Hur sallied out to find the fair Egyptian.
The shadow of the mountains was creeping over the Orchard of Palms in advance of night. Afar
through the trees came the tinkling of sheep bells, the lowing of cattle, and the voices of
the herdsmen bringing their charges home. Life at the Orchard, it should be remembered, was
in all respects as pastoral as life on the scantier meadows of the desert.

Sheik Ilderim had witnessed the exercises of the afternoon, being a repetition of those of
the morning; after which he had gone to the city in answer to the invitation of Simonides;
he might return in the night; but, considering the immensity of the field to be talked over
with his friend, it was hardly possible. Ben-Hur, thus left alone, had seen his horses cared
for; cooled and purified himself in the lake; exchanged the field garb for his customary vestments,
all white, as became a Sadducean of the pure blood; supped early; and, thanks to the strength
of youth, was well recovered from the violent exertion he had undergone.

It is neither wise nor honest to detract from beauty as a quality. There cannot be a refined
soul insensible to its influence. The story of Pygmalion and his statue is as natural as it
is poetical. Beauty is of itself a power; and it was now drawing Ben-Hur.

The Egyptian was to him a wonderfully beautiful woman--beautiful of face, beautiful of form.
In his thought she always appeared to him as he saw her at the fountain; and he felt the influence
of her voice, sweeter because in tearful expression of gratitude to him, and of her eyes--the
large, soft, black, almond-shaped eyes declarative of her race--eyes which looked more than
lies in the supremest wealth of words to utter; and recurrences of the thought of her were
returns just so frequent of a figure tall, slender, graceful, refined, wrapped in rich and
floating drapery, wanting nothing but a fitting mind to make her, like the Shulamite, and in
the same sense, terrible as an army with banners. In other words, as she returned to his fancy,
the whole passionate Song of Solomon came with her, inspired by her presence. With this sentiment
and that feeling, he was going to see if she actually justified them. It was not love that
was taking him, but admiration and curiosity, which might be the heralds of love.

The landing was a simple affair, consisting of a short stairway, and a platform garnished by
some lamp-posts; yet at the top of the steps he paused, arrested by what he beheld.

There was a shallop resting upon the clear water lightly as an egg-shell. An Ethiop--the camel-driver
at the Castalian fount--occupied the rower's place, his blackness intensified by a livery of
shining white. All the boat aft was cushioned and carpeted with stuffs brilliant with Tyrian
red. On the rudder seat sat the Egyptian herself, sunk in Indian shawls and a very vapor of
most delicate veils and scarfs. Her arms were bare to the shoulders; and, not merely faultless
in shape, they had the effect of compelling attention to them--their pose, their action, their
expression; the hands, the fingers even, seemed endowed with graces and meaning; each was an
object of beauty. The shoulders and neck were protected from the evening air by an ample scarf,
which yet did not hide them.

In the glance he gave her, Ben-Hur paid no attention to these details. There was simply an
impression made upon him; and, like strong light, it was a sensation, not a thing of sight
or enumeration. Thy lips are like a thread of scarlet; thy temples are like a piece of pomegranate
within thy locks.

"Come," she said, observing him stop, "come, or I shall think you a poor sailor."

The red of his cheek deepened. Did she know anything of his life upon the sea? He descended
to the platform at once.

"I was afraid," he said, as he took the vacant seat before her.

"Of what?"

"Of sinking the boat," he replied, smiling.

"Wait until we are in deeper water," she said, giving a signal to the black, who dipped the
oars, and they were off.

If love and Ben-Hur were enemies, the latter was never more at mercy. The Egyptian sat where
he could not but see her; she, whom he had already engrossed in memory as his ideal of the
Shulamite. With her eyes giving light to his, the stars might come out, and he not see them;
and so they did. The night might fall with unrelieved darkness everywhere else; her look would
make illumination for him. And then, as everybody knows, given youth and such companionship,
there is no situation in which the fancy takes such complete control as upon tranquil waters
under a calm night sky, warm with summer. It is so easy at such time to glide imperceptibly
out of the commonplace into the ideal.

"Give me the rudder," he said.

"No," she replied, "that were to reverse the relation. Did I not ask you to ride with me? I
am indebted to you, and would begin payment. You may talk and I will listen, or I will talk
and you will listen: that choice is yours; but it shall be mine to choose where we go, and
the way thither."

"And where may that be?"

"You are alarmed again."

"O fair Egyptian, I but asked you the first question of every captive."

"Call me Egypt."

"I would rather call you Iras."

"You may think of me by that name, but call me Egypt."

"Egypt is a country, and means many people."

"Yes, yes! And such a country!"

"I see; it is to Egypt we are going."

"Would we were! I would be so glad."

She sighed as she spoke.

"You have no care for me, then," he said.

"Ah, by that I know you were never there."

"I never was."

"Oh, it is the land where there are no unhappy people, the desired of all the rest of the earth,
the mother of all the gods, and therefore supremely blest. There, O son of Arrius, there the
happy find increase of happiness, and the wretched, going, drink once of the sweet water of
the sacred river, and laugh and sing, rejoicing like children."

"Are not the very poor with you there as elsewhere?"

"The very poor in Egypt are the very simple in wants and ways," she replied. "They have no
wish beyond enough, and how little that is, a Greek or a Roman cannot know."

"But I am neither Greek nor Roman."

She laughed.

"I have a garden of roses, and in the midst of it is a tree, and its bloom is the richest of
all. Whence came it, think you?"

"From Persia, the home of the rose."

"No."

"From India, then."

"No."

"Ah! one of the isles of Greece."

"I will tell you," she said: "a traveller found it perishing by the roadside on the plain of
Rephaim."

"Oh, in Judea!"

"I put it in the earth left bare by the receding Nile, and the soft south wind blew over the
desert and nursed it, and the sun kissed it in pity; after which it could not else than grow
and flourish. I stand in its shade now, and it thanks me with much perfume. As with the roses,
so with the men of Israel. Where shall they reach perfection but in Egypt?"

"Moses was but one of millions."

"Nay, there was a reader of dreams. Will you forget him?"

"The friendly Pharaohs are dead."

"Ah, yes! The river by which they dwelt sings to them in their tombs; yet the same sun tempers
the same air to the same people."

"Alexandria is but a Roman town."

"She has but exchanged sceptres. Caesar took from her that of the sword, and in its place left
that of learning. Go with me to the Brucheium, and I will show you the college of nations;
to the Serapeion, and see the perfection of architecture; to the Library, and read the immortals;
to the theatre, and hear the heroics of the Greeks and Hindoos; to the quay, and count the
triumphs of commerce; descend with me into the streets, O son of Arrius, and, when the philosophers
have dispersed, and taken with them the masters of all the arts, and all the gods have home
their votaries, and nothing remains of the day but its pleasures, you shall hear the stories
that have amused men from the beginning, and the songs which will never, never die."

As he listened, Ben-Hur was carried back to the night when, in the summer-house in Jerusalem,
his mother, in much the same poetry of patriotism, declaimed the departed glories of Israel.

"I see now why you wish to be called Egypt. Will you sing me a song if I call you by that name?
I heard you last night."

"That was a hymn of the Nile," she answered, "a lament which I sing when I would fancy I smell
the breath of the desert, and hear the surge of the dear old river; let me rather give you
a piece of the Indian mind. When we get to Alexandria, I will take you to the corner of the
street where you can hear it from the daughter of the Ganga, who taught it to me. Kapila, you
should know, was one of the most revered of the Hindoo sages."

Then, as if it were a natural mode of expression, she began the song.

  KAPILA.

  I.

  "Kapila, Kapila, so young and true,
    I yearn for a glory like thine,
  And hail thee from battle to ask anew,
    Can ever thy Valor be mine?

  "Kapila sat on his charger dun,
    A hero never so grave:
  'Who loveth all things hath fear of none,
   'Tis love that maketh me brave.
  A woman gave me her soul one day,
  The soul of my soul to be alway;
    Thence came my Valor to me,
    Go try it--try it--and see.'

  II.

  "Kapila, Kapila, so old and gray,
    The queen is calling for me;
  But ere I go hence, I wish thou wouldst say,
    How Wisdom first came to thee.

  "Kapila stood in his temple door,
    A priest in eremite guise:
  'It did not come as men get their lore,
    'Tis faith that maketh me wise.
  A woman gave me her heart one day,
  The heart of my heart to be alway;
    Thence came my Wisdom to me,
    Go try it--try it--and see.'"

Ben-Hur had not time to express his thanks for the song before the keel of the boat grated
upon the underlying sand, and, next moment, the bow ran upon the shore.

"A quick voyage, O Egypt!" he cried.

"And a briefer stay!" she replied, as, with a strong push, the black sent them shooting into
the open water again.

"You will give me the rudder now."

"Oh no," said she, laughing. "To you, the chariot; to me, the boat. We are merely at the lake's
end, and the lesson is that I must not sing any more. Having been to Egypt, let us now to the
Grove of Daphne."

"Without a song on the way?" he said, in deprecation.

"Tell me something of the Roman from whom you saved us to-day," she asked.

The request struck Ben-Hur unpleasantly.

"I wish this were the Nile," he said, evasively. "The kings and queens, having slept so long,
might come down from their tombs, and ride with us."

"They were of the colossi, and would sink our boat. The pygmies would be preferable. But tell
me of the Roman. He is very wicked, is he not?"

"I cannot say."

"Is he of noble family, and rich?"

"I cannot speak of his riches."

"How beautiful his horses were! and the bed of his chariot was gold, and the wheels ivory.
And his audacity! The bystanders laughed as he rode away; they, who were so nearly under his
wheels!"

She laughed at the recollection.

"They were rabble," said Ben-Hur, bitterly.

"He must be one of the monsters who are said to be growing up in Rome--Apollos ravenous as
Cerberus. Does he reside in Antioch?"

"He is of the East somewhere."

"Egypt would suit him better than Syria."

"Hardly," Ben-Hur replied. "Cleopatra is dead."

That instant the lamps burning before the door of the tent came into view.

"The dowar!" she cried.

"Ah, then, we have not been to Egypt. I have not seen Karnak or Philae or Abydos. This is not
the Nile. I have but heard a song of India, and been boating in a dream."

"Philae--Karnak. Mourn rather that you have not seen the Rameses at Aboo Simbel, looking at
which makes it so easy to think of God, the maker of the heavens and earth. Or why should you
mourn at all? Let us go on to the river; and if I cannot sing"--she laughed--"because I have
said I would not, yet I can tell you stories of Egypt."

"Go on! Ay, till morning comes, and the evening, and the next morning!" he said, vehemently.

"Of what shall my stories be? Of the mathematicians?"

"Oh no."

"Of the philosophers?"

"No, no."

"Of the magicians and genii?"

"If you will."

"Of war?"

"Yes."

"Of love?"

"Yes."

"I will tell you a cure for love. It is the story of a queen. Listen reverently. The papyrus
from which it was taken by the priests of Philae was wrested from the hand of the heroine herself.
It is correct in form, and must be true:

NE-NE-HOFRA.

I.

"There is no parallelism in human lives.

"No life runs a straight line.

"The most perfect life develops as a circle, and terminates in its beginning, making it impossible
to say, This is the commencement, that the end.

"Perfect lives are the treasures of God; of great days he wears them on the ring-finger of
his heart hand."

II.

"Ne-ne-hofra dwelt in a house close by Essouan, yet closer to the first cataract--so close,
indeed, that the sound of the eternal battle waged there between river and rocks was of the
place a part.

"She grew in beauty day by day, so that it was said of her, as of the poppies in her father's
garden, What will she not be in the time of blooming?

"Each year of her life was the beginning of a new song more delightful than any of those which
went before.

"Child was she of a marriage between the North, bounded by the sea, and the South, bounded
by the desert beyond the Luna mountains; and one gave her its passion, the other its genius;
so when they beheld her, both laughed, saying, not meanly, 'She is mine,' but generously, 'Ha,
ha! she is ours.'

"All excellences in nature contributed to her perfection and rejoiced in her presence. Did
she come or go, the birds ruffled their wings in greeting; the unruly winds sank to cooling
zephyrs; the white lotus rose from the water's depth to look at her; the solemn river loitered
on its way; the palm-trees, nodding, shook all their plumes; and they seemed to say, this one,
I gave her of my grace; that, I gave her of my brightness; the other, I gave her of my purity:
and so each as it had a virtue to give.

"At twelve, Ne-ne-hofra was the delight of Essouan; at sixteen, the fame of her beauty was
universal; at twenty, there was never a day which did not bring to her door princes of the
desert on swift camels, and lords of Egypt in gilded barges; and, going away disconsolate,
they reported everywhere, 'I have seen her, and she is not a woman, but Athor herself.'"

III.

"Now of the three hundred and thirty successors of good King Menes, eighteen were Ethiopians,
of whom Oraetes was one hundred and ten years old. He had reigned seventy-six years. Under
him the people thrived, and the land groaned with fatness of plenty. He practised wisdom because,
having seen so much, he knew what it was. He dwelt in Memphis, having there his principal palace,
his arsenals, and his treasure-house. Frequently he went down to Butos to talk with Latona.

"The wife of the good king died. Too old was she for perfect embalmment; yet he loved her,
and mourned as the inconsolable; seeing which, a colchyte presumed one day to speak to him.

"'O Oraetes, I am astonished that one so wise and great should not know how to cure a sorrow
like this.'

"'Tell me a cure,' said the king.

"Three times the colchyte kissed the floor, and then he replied, knowing the dead could not
hear him, 'At Essouan lives Ne-ne-hofra, beautiful as Athor the beautiful. Send for her. She
has refused all the lords and princes, and I know not how many kings; but who can say no to
Oraetes?'"

IV.

"Ne-ne-hofra descended the Nile in a barge richer than any ever before seen, attended by an
army in barges each but a little less fine. All Nubia and Egypt, and a myriad from Libya, and
a host of Troglodytes, and not a few Macrobii from beyond the Mountains of the Moon, lined
the tented shores to see the cortege pass, wafted by perfumed winds and golden oars.

"Through a dromos of sphinxes and couchant double-winged lions she was borne, and set down
before Oraetes sitting on a throne specially erected at the sculptured pylon of the palace.
He raised her up, gave her place by his side, clasped the uraeus upon her arm, kissed her,
and Ne-ne-hofra was queen of all queens.

"That was not enough for the wise Oraetes; he wanted love, and a queen happy in his love. So
he dealt with her tenderly, showing her his possessions, cities, palaces, people; his armies,
his ships: and with his own hand he led her through his treasure-house, saying, 'O. Ne-ne-hofra!
but kiss me in love, and they are all thine.'

"And, thinking she could be happy, if she was not then, she kissed him once, twice, thrice--kissed
him thrice, his hundred and ten years notwithstanding.

"The first year she was happy, and it was very short; the third year she was wretched, and
it was very long; then she was enlightened: that which she thought love of Oraetes was only
daze of his power. Well for her had the daze endured! Her spirits deserted her; she had long
spells of tears, and her women could not remember when they heard her laugh; of the roses on
her cheeks only ashes remained; she languished and faded gradually, but certainly. Some said
she was haunted by the Erinnyes for cruelty to a lover; others, that she was stricken by some
god envious of Oraetes. Whatever the cause of her decline, the charms of the magicians availed
not to restore her, and the prescript of the doctor was equally without virtue. Ne-ne-hofra
was given over to die.

"Oraetes chose a crypt for her up in the tombs of the queens; and, calling the master sculptors
and painters to Memphis, he set them to work upon designs more elaborate than any even in the
great galleries of the dead kings.

"'O thou beautiful as Athor herself, my queen!' said the king, whose hundred and thirteen years
did not lessen his ardor as a lover, 'Tell me, I pray, the ailment of which, alas! thou art
so certainly perishing before my eyes.'

"'You will not love me any more if I tell you,' she said, in doubt and fear.

"'Not love you! I will love you the more. I swear it, by the genii of Amente! by the eye of
Osiris, I swear it! Speak!' he cried, passionate as a lover, authoritative as a king.

"'Hear, then,' she said. 'There is an anchorite, the oldest and holiest of his class, in a
cave near Essouan. His name is Menopha. He was my teacher and guardian. Send for him, O Oraetes,
and he will tell you that you seek to know; he will also help you find the cure for my affliction.'

"Oraetes arose rejoicing. He went away in spirit a hundred years younger than when he came."

V.

"'Speak!' said Oraetes to Menopha, in the palace at Memphis.

"And Menopha replied, 'Most mighty king, if you were young, I should not answer, because I
am yet pleased with life; as it is, I will say the queen, like any other mortal, is paying
the penalty of a crime.'

"'A crime!' exclaimed Oraetes, angrily.

"Menopha bowed very low.

"'Yes; to herself.'

"'I am not in mood for riddles,' said the king.

"'What I say is not a riddle, as you shall hear. Ne-ne-hofra grew up under my eyes, and confided
every incident of her life to me; among others, that she loved the son of her father's gardener,
Barbec by name.'

"Oraetes's frown, strangely enough, began to dissipate.

"'With that love in her heart, O king, she came to you; of that love she is dying.'

"'Where is the gardener's son now?' asked Oraetes.

"'In Essouan.'

"The king went out and gave two orders. To one oeris he said, 'Go to Essouan and bring hither
a youth named Barbec. You will find him in the garden of the queen's father;' to another, 'Assemble
workmen and cattle and tools, and construct for me in Lake Chemmis an island, which, though
laden with a temple, a palace, and a garden, and all manner of trees bearing fruit, and all
manner of vines, shall nevertheless float about as the winds may blow it. Make the island,
and let it be fully furnished by the time the moon begins to wane.'

"Then to the queen he said,

"'Be of cheer. I know all, and have sent for Barbec.'

"Ne-ne-hofra kissed his hands.

"'You shall have him to yourself, and he you to himself; nor shall any disturb your loves for
a year.'

"She kissed his feet; he raised her, and kissed her in return; and the rose came back to her
cheek, the scarlet to her lips, and the laughter to her heart."

VI.

"For one year Ne-ne-hofra and Barbec the gardener floated as the winds blew on the island of
Chemmis, which became one of the wonders of the world; never a home of love more beautiful;
one year, seeing no one and existing for no one but themselves. Then she returned in state
to the palace in Memphis.

"'Now whom lovest thou best?' asked the king.

"She kissed his cheek and said, 'Take me back, O good king, for I am cured.'

"Oraetes laughed, none the worse, that moment, of his hundred and fourteen years.

"'Then it is true, as Menopha said: ha, ha, ha! it is true, the cure of love is love.'

"'Even so,' she replied.

"Suddenly his manner changed, and his look became terrible.

"'I did not find it so,' he said.

"She shrank affrighted.

"'Thou guilty!' he continued. 'Thy offense to Oraetes the man he forgives; but thy offence
to Oraetes the king remains to be punished.'

"She cast herself at his feet.

"'Hush!' he cried. 'Thou art dead!'

"He clapped his hands, and a terrible procession came in--a procession of parachistes, or embalmers,
each with some implement or material of his loathsome art.

"The King pointed to Ne-ne-hofra.

"'She is dead. Do thy work well.'"

VII.

"Ne-ne-hofra the beautiful, after seventy-two days, was carried to the crypt chosen for her
the year before, and laid with her queenly predecessors; yet there was no funeral procession
in her honor across the sacred lake."

At the conclusion of the story, Ben-Hur was sitting at the Egyptian's feet, and her hand upon
the tiller was covered by his hand.

"Menopha was wrong," he said.

"How?"

"Love lives by loving."

"Then there is no cure for it?"

"Yes. Oraetes found the cure."

"What was it?"

"Death."

"You are a good listener, O son of Arrius."

And so with conversation and stories, they whiled the hours away. As they stepped ashore, she said,

"To-morrow we go to the city."

"But you will be at the games?" he asked.

"Oh yes."

"I will send you my colors."

With that they separated.

CHAPTER IV

Ilderim returned to the dowar next day about the third hour. As he dismounted, a man whom he
recognized as of his own tribe came to him and said, "O sheik, I was bidden give thee this
package, with request that thou read it at once. If there be answer, I was to wait thy pleasure."

Ilderim gave the package immediate attention. The seal was already broken. The address ran,
TO VALERIUS GRATUS AT CAESAREA.

"Abaddon take him!" growled the sheik, at discovering a letter in Latin.

Had the missive been in Greek or Arabic, he could have read it; as it was, the utmost he could
make out was the signature in bold Roman letters--MESSALA--whereat his eyes twinkled.

"Where is the young Jew?" he asked.

"In the field with the horses," a servant replied.

The sheik replaced the papyrus in its envelopes, and, tucking the package under his girdle,
remounted the horse. That moment a stranger made his appearance, coming, apparently, from the city.

"I am looking for Sheik Ilderim, surnamed the Generous," the stranger said.

His language and attire bespoke him a Roman.

What he could not read, he yet could speak; so the old Arab answered, with dignity, "I am Sheik
Ilderim."

The man's eyes fell; he raised them again, and said, with forced composure, "I heard you had
need of a driver for the games."

Ilderim's lip under the white mustache curled contemptuously.

"Go thy way," he said. "I have a driver."

He turned to ride away, but the man, lingering, spoke again.

"Sheik, I am a lover of horses, and they say you have the most beautiful in the world."

The old man was touched; he drew rein, as if on the point of yielding to the flattery, but
finally replied, "Not to-day, not to-day; some other time I will show them to you. I am too
busy just now."

He rode to the field, while the stranger betook himself to town again with a smiling countenance.
He had accomplished his mission.

And every day thereafter, down to the great day of the games, a man--sometimes two or three
men--came to the sheik at the Orchard, pretending to seek an engagement as driver.

In such manner Messala kept watch over Ben-Hur.

CHAPTER V

The sheik waited, well satisfied, until Ben-Hur drew his horses off the field for the forenoon--well
satisfied, for he had seen them, after being put through all the other paces, run full speed
in such manner that it did not seem there were one the slowest and another the fastest--run
in other words, as if the four were one.

"This afternoon, O sheik, I will give Sirius back to you." Ben-Hur patted the neck of the old
horse as he spoke. "I will give him back, and take to the chariot."

"So soon?" Ilderim asked.

"With such as these, good sheik, one day suffices. They are not afraid; they have a man's intelligence,
and they love the exercise. This one," he shook a rein over the back of the youngest of the
four--"you called him Aldebaran, I believe--is the swiftest; in once round a stadium he would
lead the others thrice his length."

Ilderim pulled his beard, and said, with twinkling eyes, "Aldebaran is the swiftest; but what
of the slowest?"

"This is he." Ben-Hur shook the rein over Antares. "This is he: but he will win, for, look
you, sheik, he will run his utmost all day--all day; and, as the sun goes down, he will reach
his swiftest."

"Right again," said Ilderim.

"I have but one fear, O sheik."

The sheik became doubly serious.

"In his greed of triumph, a Roman cannot keep honor pure. In the games--all of them, mark you--their
tricks are infinite; in chariot racing their knavery extends to everything--from horse to driver,
from driver to master. Wherefore, good sheik, look well to all thou hast; from this till the
trial is over, let no stranger so much as see the horses. Would you be perfectly safe, do more--keep
watch over them with armed hand as well as sleepless eye; then I will have no fear of the end."

At the door of the tent they dismounted.

"What you say shall be attended to. By the splendor of God, no hand shall come near them except
it belong to one of the faithful. To-night I will set watches. But, son of Arrius"--Ilderim
drew forth the package, and opened it slowly, while they walked to the divan and seated themselves--"son
of Arrius, see thou here, and help me with thy Latin."

He passed the despatch to Ben-Hur.

"There; read--and read aloud, rendering what thou findest into the tongue of thy fathers. Latin
is an abomination."

Ben-Hur was in good spirits, and began the reading carelessly. "'MESSALA TO GRATUS!'" He paused.
A premonition drove the blood to his heart. Ilderim observed his agitation.

"Well; I am waiting."

Ben-Hur prayed pardon, and recommenced the paper, which, it is sufficient to say, was one of
the duplicates of the letter despatched so carefully to Gratus by Messala the morning after
the revel in the palace.

The paragraphs in the beginning were remarkable only as proof that the writer had not outgrown
his habit of mockery; when they were passed, and the reader came to the parts intended to refresh
the memory of Gratus, his voice trembled, and twice he stopped to regain his self-control.
By a strong effort he continued.

Here Ben-Hur broke down utterly. The paper fell from his hands, and he covered his face.

"They are dead--dead. I alone am left."

The sheik had been a silent, but not unsympathetic, witness of the young man's suffering; now
he arose and said, "Son of Arrius, it is for me to beg thy pardon. Read the paper by thyself.
When thou art strong enough to give the rest of it to me, send word, and I will return."

He went out of the tent, and nothing in all his life became him better.

Ben-Hur flung himself on the divan and gave way to his feelings. When somewhat recovered, he
recollected that a portion of the letter remained unread, and, taking it up, he resumed the
reading. "He does not know they are dead; he does not know it! Blessed be the name of the Lord!
there is yet hope." He finished the sentence, and was strengthened by it, and went on bravely
to the end of the letter.

"They are not dead," he said, after reflection; "they are not dead, or he would have heard of it."

A second reading, more careful than the first, confirmed him in the opinion. Then he sent for
the sheik.

"In coming to your hospitable tent, O sheik," he said, calmly, when the Arab was seated and
they were alone, "it was not in my mind to speak of myself further than to assure you I had
sufficient training to be intrusted with your horses. I declined to tell you my history. But
the chances which have sent this paper to my hand and given it to me to be read are so strange
that I feel bidden to trust you with everything. And I am the more inclined to do so by knowledge
here conveyed that we are both of us threatened by the same enemy, against whom it is needful
that we make common cause. I will read the letter and give you explanation; after which you
will not wonder I was so moved. If you thought me weak or childish, you will then excuse me."

"A--h!" exclaimed Ilderim, in such a tone one might hardly say he was more surprised than angry;
at the same time, he clutched his beard.

"'At the old Orchard of Palms,'" Ben-Hur repeated, "'under the tent of the traitor Shiek Ilderim.'"

"Traitor!--I?" the old man cried, in his shrillest tone, while lip and beard curled with ire,
and on his forehead and neck the veins swelled and beat as they would burst.

"Yet a moment, sheik," said Ben-Hur, with a deprecatory gesture. "Such is Messala's opinion
of you. Hear his threat."

"To Rome! Me--Ilderim--sheik of ten thousand horsemen with spears--me to Rome!"

He leaped rather than rose to his feet, his arms outstretched, his fingers spread and curved
like claws, his eyes glittering like a serpent's.

"O God!--nay, by all the gods except of Rome!--when shall this insolence end? A freeman am
I; free are my people. Must we die slaves? Or, worse, must I live a dog, crawling to a master's
feet? Must I lick his hand, lest he lash me? What is mine is not mine; I am not my own; for
breath of body I must be beholden to a Roman. Oh, if I were young again! Oh, could I shake
off twenty years--or ten--or five!"

He ground his teeth and shook his hands overhead; then, under the impulse of another idea,
he walked away and back again to Ben-Hur swiftly, and caught his shoulder with a strong grasp.

"If I were as thou, son of Arrius--as young, as strong, as practised in arms; if I had a motive
hissing me to revenge--a motive, like thine, great enough to make hate holy-- Away with disguise
on thy part and on mine! Son of Hur, son of Hur, I say--"

At that name all the currents of Ben-Hur's blood stopped; surprised, bewildered, he gazed into
the Arab's eyes, now close to his, and fiercely bright.

"Son of Hur, I say, were I as thou, with half thy wrongs, bearing about with me memories like
thine, I would not, I could not, rest." Never pausing, his words following each other torrent-like,
the old man swept on. "To all my grievances, I would add those of the world, and devote myself
to vengeance. From land to land I would go firing all mankind. No war for freedom but should
find me engaged; no battle against Rome in which I would not bear a part. I would turn Parthian,
if I could not better. If men failed me, still I would not give over the effort--ha, ha, ha!
By the splendor of God! I would herd with wolves, and make friends of lions and tigers, in
hope of marshalling them against the common enemy. I would use every weapon. So my victims
were Romans, I would rejoice in slaughter. Quarter I would not ask; quarter I would not give.
To the flames everything Roman; to the sword every Roman born. Of nights I would pray the gods,
the good and the bad alike, to lend me their special terrors--tempests, drought, heat, cold,
and all the nameless poisons they let loose in air, all the thousand things of which men die
on sea and on land. Oh, I could not sleep. I--I--"

The sheik stopped for want of breath, panting, wringing his hands. And, sooth to say, of all
the passionate burst Ben-Hur retained but a vague impression wrought by fiery eyes, a piercing
voice, and a rage too intense for coherent expression.

For the first time in years, the desolate youth heard himself addressed by his proper name.
One man at least knew him, and acknowledged it without demand of identity; and he an Arab fresh
from the desert!

How came the man by his knowledge? The letter? No. It told the cruelties from which his family
had suffered; it told the story of his own misfortunes, but it did not say he was the very
victim whose escape from doom was the theme of the heartless narrative. That was the point
of explanation he had notified the sheik would follow the reading of the letter. He was pleased,
and thrilled with hope restored, yet kept an air of calmness.

"Good sheik, tell me how you came by this letter."

"My people keep the roads between cities," Ilderim answered, bluntly. "They took it from a
courier."

"Are they known to be thy people?"

"No. To the world they are robbers, whom it is mine to catch and slay."

"Again, sheik. You call me son of Hur--my father's name. I did not think myself known to a
person on earth. How came you by the knowledge?"

Ilderim hesitated; but, rallying, he answered, "I know you, yet I am not free to tell you more."

"Some one holds you in restraint?"

The sheik closed his mouth, and walked away; but, observing Ben-Hur's disappointment, he came
back, and said, "Let us say no more about the matter now. I will go to town; when I return,
I may talk to you fully. Give me the letter."

Ilderim rolled the papyrus carefully, restored it to its envelopes, and became once more all
energy.

"What sayest thou?" he asked, while waiting for his horse and retinue. "I told what I would
do, were I thou, and thou hast made no answer."

"I intended to answer, sheik, and I will." Ben-Hur's countenance and voice changed with the
feeling invoked. "All thou hast said, I will do--all at least in the power of a man. I devoted
myself to vengeance long ago. Every hour of the five years passed, I have lived with no other
thought. I have taken no respite. I have had no pleasures of youth. The blandishments of Rome
were not for me. I wanted her to educate me for revenge. I resorted to her most famous masters
and professors--not those of rhetoric or philosophy: alas! I had no time for them. The arts
essential to a fighting-man were my desire. I associated with gladiators, and with winners
of prizes in the Circus; and they were my teachers. The drill-masters in the great camp accepted
me as a scholar, and were proud of my attainments in their line. O sheik, I am a soldier; but
the things of which I dream require me to be a captain. With that thought, I have taken part
in the campaign against the Parthians; when it is over, then, if the Lord spare my life and
strength--then"--he raised his clenched hands, and spoke vehemently--"then I will be an enemy
Roman-taught in all things; then Rome shall account to me in Roman lives for her ills. You
have my answer, sheik."

Ilderim put an arm over his shoulder, and kissed him, saying, passionately, "If thy God favor
thee not, son of Hur, it is because he is dead. Take thou this from me--sworn to, if so thy
preference run: thou shalt have my hands, and their fulness--men, horses, camels, and the desert
for preparation. I swear it! For the present, enough. Thou shalt see or hear from me before night."

Turning abruptly off, the sheik was speedily on the road to the city.

CHAPTER VI

The intercepted letter was conclusive upon a number of points of great interest to Ben-Hur.
It had all the effect of a confession that the writer was a party to the putting-away of the
family with murderous intent; that he had sanctioned the plan adopted for the purpose; that
he had received a portion of the proceeds of the confiscation, and was yet in enjoyment of
his part; that he dreaded the unexpected appearance of what he was pleased to call the chief
malefactor, and accepted it as a menace; that he contemplated such further action as would
secure him in the future, and was ready to do whatever his accomplice in Caesarea might advise.

And, now that the letter had reached the hand of him really its subject, it was notice of danger
to come, as well as a confession of guilt. So when Ilderim left the tent, Ben-Hur had much
to think about, requiring immediate action. His enemies were as adroit and powerful as any
in the East. If they were afraid of him, he had greater reason to be afraid of them. He strove
earnestly to reflect upon the situation, but could not; his feelings constantly overwhelmed
him. There was a certain qualified pleasure in the assurance that his mother and sister were
alive; and it mattered little that the foundation of the assurance was a mere inference. That
there was one person who could tell him where they were seemed to his hope so long deferred
as if discovery were now close at hand. These were mere causes of feeling; underlying them,
it must be confessed he had a superstitious fancy that God was about to make ordination in
his behalf, in which event faith whispered him to stand still.

Occasionally, referring to the words of Ilderim, he wondered whence the Arab derived his information
about him; not from Malluch certainly; nor from Simonides, whose interests, all adverse, would
hold him dumb. Could Messala have been the informant? No, no: disclosure might be dangerous
in that quarter. Conjecture was vain; at the same time, often as Ben-Hur was beaten back from
the solution, he was consoled with the thought that whoever the person with the knowledge might
be, he was a friend, and, being such, would reveal himself in good time. A little more waiting--a
little more patience. Possibly the errand of the sheik was to see the worthy; possibly the
letter might precipitate a full disclosure.

And patient he would have been if only he could have believed Tirzah and his mother were waiting
for him under circumstances permitting hope on their part strong as his; if, in other words,
conscience had not stung him with accusations respecting them.

To escape such accusations, he wandered far through the Orchard, pausing now where the date-gatherers
were busy, yet not too busy to offer him of their fruit and talk with him; then, under the
great trees, to watch the nesting birds, or hear the bees swarming about the berries bursting
with honeyed sweetness, and filling all the green and golden spaces with the music of their
beating wings.

By the lake, however, he lingered longest. He might not look upon the water and its sparkling
ripples, so like sensuous life, without thinking of the Egyptian and her marvellous beauty,
and of floating with her here and there through the night, made brilliant by her songs and
stories; he might not forget the charm of her manner, the lightness of her laugh, the flattery
of her attention, the warmth of her little hand under his upon the tiller of the boat. From
her it was for his thought but a short way to Balthasar, and the strange things of which he
had been witness, unaccountable by any law of nature; and from him, again, to the King of the
Jews, whom the good man, with such pathos of patience, was holding in holy promise, the distance
was even nearer. And there his mind stayed, finding in the mysteries of that personage a satisfaction
answering well for the rest he was seeking. Because, it may have been, nothing is so easy as
denial of an idea not agreeable to our wishes, he rejected the definition given by Balthasar
of the kingdom the king was coming to establish. A kingdom of souls, if not intolerable to
his Sadducean faith, seemed to him but an abstraction drawn from the depths of a devotion too
fond and dreamy. A kingdom of Judea, on the other hand, was more than comprehensible: such
had been, and, if only for that reason, might be again. And it suited his pride to think of
a new kingdom broader of domain, richer in power, and of a more unapproachable splendor than
the old one; of a new king wiser and mightier than Solomon--a new king under whom, especially,
he could find both service and revenge. In that mood he resumed to the dowar.

The mid-day meal disposed of, still further to occupy himself, Ben-Hur had the chariot rolled
out into the sunlight for inspection. The word but poorly conveys the careful study the vehicle
underwent. No point or part of it escaped him. With a pleasure which will be better understood
hereafter, he saw the pattern was Greek, in his judgment preferable to the Roman in many respects;
it was wider between the wheels, and lower and stronger, and the disadvantage of greater weight
would be more than compensated by the greater endurance of his Arabs. Speaking generally, the
carriage-makers of Rome built for the games almost solely, sacrificing safety to beauty, and
durability to grace; while the chariots of Achilles and "the king of men," designed for war
and all its extreme tests, still ruled the tastes of those who met and struggled for the crowns
Isthmian and Olympic.

Next he brought the horses, and, hitching them to the chariot, drove to the field of exercise,
where, hour after hour, he practised them in movement under the yoke. When he came away in
the evening, it was with restored spirit, and a fixed purpose to defer action in the matter
of Messala until the race was won or lost. He could not forego the pleasure of meeting his
adversary under the eyes of the East; that there might be other competitors seemed not to enter
his thought. His confidence in the result was absolute; no doubt of his own skill; and as to
the four, they were his full partners in the glorious game.

"Let him look to it, let him look to it! Ha, Antares--Aldebaran! Shall he not, O honest Rigel?
and thou, Atair, king among coursers, shall he not beware of us? Ha, ha! good hearts!"

So in rests he passed from horse to horse, speaking, not as a master, but the senior of as
many brethren.

After nightfall, Ben-Hur sat by the door of the tent waiting for Ilderim, not yet returned
from the city. He was not impatient, or vexed, or doubtful. The sheik would be heard from,
at least. Indeed, whether it was from satisfaction with the performance of the four, or the
refreshment there is in cold water succeeding bodily exercise, or supper partaken with royal
appetite, or the reaction which, as a kindly provision of nature, always follows depression,
the young man was in good-humor verging upon elation. He felt himself in the hands of Providence
no longer his enemy. At last there was a sound of horse's feet coming rapidly, and Malluch rode up.

"Son of Arrius," he said, cheerily, after salutation, "I salute you for Sheik Ilderim, who
requests you to mount and go to the city. He is waiting for you."

Ben-Hur asked no questions, but went in where the horses were feeding. Aldebaran came to him,
as if offering his service. He played with him lovingly, but passed on, and chose another,
not of the four--they were sacred to the race. Very shortly the two were on the road, going
swiftly and in silence.

Some distance below the Seleucian Bridge, they crossed the river by a ferry, and, riding far
round on the right bank, and recrossing by another ferry, entered the city from the west. The
detour was long, but Ben-Hur accepted it as a precaution for which there was good reason.

Down to Simonides' landing they rode, and in front of the great warehouse, under the bridge,
Malluch drew rein.

"We are come," he said. "Dismount."

Ben-Hur recognized the place.

"Where is the sheik?" he asked.

"Come with me. I will show you."

A watchman took the horses, and almost before he realized it Ben-Hur stood once more at the
door of the house up on the greater one, listening to the response from within--"In God's name,
enter."

CHAPTER VII

Malluch stopped at the door; Ben-Hur entered alone.

The room was the same in which he had formerly interviewed Simonides, and it had been in nowise
changed, except now, close by the arm-chair, a polished brazen rod, set on a broad wooden pedestal,
arose higher than a tall man, holding lamps of silver on sliding arms, half-a-dozen or more
in number, and all burning. The light was clear, bringing into view the panelling on the walls,
the cornice with its row of gilded balls, and the dome dully tinted with violet mica.

Within a few steps, Ben-Hur stopped.

Three persons were present, looking at him--Simonides, Ilderim, and Esther.

He glanced hurriedly from one to another, as if to find answer to the question half formed
in his mind, What business can these have with me? He became calm, with every sense on the
alert, for the question was succeeded by another, Are they friends or enemies?

At length, his eyes rested upon Esther.

The men returned his look kindly; in her face there was something more than kindness--something
too spirituel for definition, which yet went to his inner consciousness without definition.

Shall it be said, good reader? Back of his gaze there was a comparison in which the Egyptian
arose and set herself over against the gentle Jewess; but it lived an instant, and, as is the
habit of such comparisons, passed away without a conclusion.

"Son of Hur--"

The guest turned to the speaker.

"Son of Hur," said Simonides, repeating the address slowly, and with distinct emphasis, as
if to impress all its meaning upon him most interested in understanding it, "take thou the
peace of the Lord God of our fathers--take it from me." He paused, then added, "From me and mine."

The speaker sat in his chair; there were the royal head, the bloodless face, the masterful
air, under the influence of which visitors forgot the broken limbs and distorted body of the
man. The full black eyes gazed out under the white brows steadily, but not sternly. A moment
thus, then he crossed his hands upon his breast.

The action, taken with the salutation, could not be misunderstood, and was not.

"Simonides," Ben-Hur answered, much moved, "the holy peace you tender is accepted. As son to
father, I return it to you. Only let there be perfect understanding between us."

Thus delicately he sought to put aside the submission of the merchant, and, in place of the
relation of master and servant, substitute one higher and holier.

Simonides let fall his hands, and, turning to Esther, said, "A seat for the master, daughter."

She hastened, and brought a stool, and stood, with suffused face, looking from one to the other--from
Ben-Hur to Simonides, from Simonides to Ben-Hur; and they waited, each declining the superiority
direction would imply. When at length the pause began to be embarrassing, Ben-Hur advanced,
and gently took the stool from her, and, going to the chair, placed it at the merchant's feet.

"I will sit here," he said.

His eyes met hers--an instant only; but both were better of the look. He recognized her gratitude,
she his generosity and forbearance.

Simonides bowed his acknowledgment.

"Esther, child, bring me the paper," he said, with a breath of relief.

She went to a panel in the wall, opened it, took out a roll of papyri, and brought and gave
it to him.

"Thou saidst well, son of Hur," Simonides began, while unrolling the sheets. "Let us understand
each other. In anticipation of the demand--which I would have made hadst thou waived it--I
have here a statement covering everything necessary to the understanding required. I could
see but two points involved--the property first, and then our relation. The statement is explicit
as to both. Will it please thee to read it now?"

Ben-Hur received the papers, but glanced at Ilderim.

"Nay," said Simonides, "the sheik shall not deter thee from reading. The account--such thou
wilt find it--is of a nature requiring a witness. In the attesting place at the end thou wilt
find, when thou comest to it, the name--Ilderim, Sheik. He knows all. He is thy friend. All
he has been to me, that will he be to thee also."

Simonides looked at the Arab, nodding pleasantly, and the latter gravely returned the nod,
saying, "Thou hast said."

Ben-Hur replied, "I know already the excellence of his friendship, and have yet to prove myself
worthy of it." Immediately he continued, "Later, O Simonides, I will read the papers carefully;
for the present, do thou take them, and if thou be not too weary, give me their substance."

Simonides took back the roll.

"Here, Esther, stand by me and receive the sheets, lest they fall into confusion."

She took place by his chair, letting her right arm fall lightly across his shoulder, so, when
he spoke, the account seemed to have rendition from both of them jointly.

"This," said Simonides, drawing out the first leaf, "shows the money I had of thy father's,
being the amount saved from the Romans; there was no property saved, only money, and that the
robbers would have secured but for our Jewish custom of bills of exchange. The amount saved,
being sums I drew from Rome, Alexandria, Damascus, Carthage, Valentia, and elsewhere within
the circle of trade, was one hundred and twenty talents Jewish money."

He gave the sheet to Esther, and took the next one.

"With that amount--one hundred and twenty talents--I charged myself. Hear now my credits. I
use the word, as thou wilt see, with reference rather to the proceeds gained from the use of
the money."

From separate sheets he then read footings, which, fractions omitted, were as follows:

  "CR.

  By ships............................... 60 talents.
   " goods in store......................110   "
   " cargoes in transit.................. 75   "
   " camels, horses, etc................. 20   "
   " warehouses.......................... 10   "
   " bills due........................... 54   "
   " money on hand and subject to draft..224   "
                                         ---
  Total..................................553   "   "

"To these now, to the five hundred and fifty-three talents gained, add the original capital
I had from thy father, and thou hast SIX HUNDRED AND SEVENTY THREE TALENTS!--and all thine--making
thee, O son of Hur, the richest subject in the world."

He took the papyri from Esther, and, reserving one, rolled them and offered them to Ben-Hur.
The pride perceptible in his manner was not offensive; it might have been from a sense of duty
well done; it might have been for Ben-Hur without reference to himself.

"And there is nothing," he added, dropping his voice, but not his eyes--"there is nothing now
thou mayst not do."

The moment was one of absorbing interest to all present. Simonides crossed his hands upon his
breast again; Esther was anxious; Ilderim nervous. A man is never so on trial as in the moment
of excessive good-fortune.

Taking the roll, Ben-Hur arose, struggling with emotion.

"All this is to me as a light from heaven, sent to drive away a night which has been so long
I feared it would never end, and so dark I had lost the hope of seeing," he said, with a husky
voice. "I give first thanks to the Lord, who has not abandoned me, and my next to thee, O Simonides.
Thy faithfulness outweighs the cruelty of others, and redeems our human nature. 'There is nothing
I cannot do:' be it so. Shall any man in this my hour of such mighty privilege be more generous
than I? Serve me as a witness now, Sheik Ilderim. Hear thou my words as I shall speak them--hear
and remember. And thou, Esther, good angel of this good man! hear thou also."

He stretched his hand with the roll to Simonides.

"The things these papers take into account--all of them: ships, houses, goods, camels, horses,
money; the least as well as the greatest--give I back to thee, O Simonides, making them all
thine, and sealing them to thee and thine forever."

Esther smiled through her tears; Ilderim pulled his beard with rapid motion, his eyes glistening
like beads of jet. Simonides alone was calm.

"Sealing them to thee and thine forever," Ben-Hur continued, with better control of himself,
"with one exception, and upon one condition."

The breath of the listeners waited upon his words.

"The hundred and twenty talents which were my father's thou shalt return to me."

Ilderim's countenance brightened.

"And thou shalt join me in search of my mother and sister, holding all thine subject to the
expense of discovery, even as I will hold mine."

Simonides was much affected. Stretching out his hand, he said, "I see thy spirit, son of Hur,
and I am grateful to the Lord that he hath sent thee to me such as thou art. If I served well
thy father in life, and his memory afterwards, be not afraid of default to thee; yet must I
say the exception cannot stand."

Exhibiting, then, the reserved sheet, he continued,

"Thou hast not all the account. Take this and read--read aloud."

Ben-Hur took the supplement, and read it.

"Statement of the servants of Hur, rendered by Simonides, steward of the estate.

  1. Amrah, Egyptian, keeping the palace in Jerusalem.
  2. Simonides, the steward, in Antioch.
  3. Esther, daughter of Simonides."

Now, in all his thoughts of Simonides, not once had it entered Ben-Hur's mind that, by the
law, a daughter followed the parent's condition. In all his visions of her, the sweet-faced
Esther had figured as the rival of the Egyptian, and an object of possible love. He shrank
from the revelation so suddenly brought him, and looked at her blushing; and, blushing, she
dropped her eyes before him. Then he said, while the papyrus rolled itself together,

"A man with six hundred talents is indeed rich, and may do what he pleases; but, rarer than
the money, more priceless than the property, is the mind which amassed the wealth, and the
heart it could not corrupt when amassed. O Simonides--and thou, fair Esther--fear not. Sheik
Ilderim here shall be witness that in the same moment ye were declared my servants, that moment
I declared ye free; and what I declare, that will I put in writing. Is it not enough? Can I
do more?"

"Son of Hur," said Simonides, "verily thou dost make servitude lightsome. I was wrong; there
are some things thou canst not do; thou canst not make us free in law. I am thy servant forever,
because I went to the door with thy father one day, and in my ear the awl-marks yet abide."

"Did my father that?"

"Judge him not," cried Simonides, quickly. "He accepted me a servant of that class because
I prayed him to do so. I never repented the step. It was the price I paid for Rachel, the mother
of my child here; for Rachel, who would not be my wife unless I became what she was."

"Was she a servant forever?"

"Even so."

Ben-Hur walked the floor in pain of impotent wish.

"I was rich before," he said, stopping suddenly. "I was rich with the gifts of the generous
Arrius; now comes this greater fortune, and the mind which achieved it. Is there not a purpose
of God in it all? Counsel me, O Simonides! Help me to see the right and do it. Help me to be
worthy my name, and what thou art in law to me, that will I be to thee in fact and deed. I
will be thy servant forever."

Simonides' face actually glowed.

"O son of my dead master! I will do better than help; I will serve thee with all my might of
mind and heart. Body, I have not; it perished in thy cause; but with mind and heart I will
serve thee. I swear it, by the altar of our God, and the gifts upon the altar! Only make me
formally what I have assumed to be."

"Name it," said Ben-Hur, eagerly.

"As steward the care of the property will be mine."

"Count thyself steward now; or wilt thou have it in writing?"

"Thy word simply is enough; it was so with the father, and I will not more from the son. And
now, if the understanding be perfect"--Simonides paused.

"It is with me," said Ben-Hur.

"And thou, daughter of Rachel, speak!" said Simonides, lifting her arm from his shoulder.

Esther, left thus alone, stood a moment abashed, her color coming and going; then she went
to Ben-Hur, and said, with a womanliness singularly sweet, "I am not better than my mother
was; and, as she is gone, I pray you, O my master, let me care for my father."

Ben-Hur took her hand, and led her back to the chair, saying, "Thou art a good child. Have
thy will."

Simonides replaced her arm upon his neck, and there was silence for a time in the room.

CHAPTER VIII

Simonides looked up, none the less a master.

"Esther," he said, quietly, "the night is going fast; and, lest we become too weary for that
which is before us, let the refreshments be brought."

She rang a bell. A servant answered with wine and bread, which she bore round.

"The understanding, good my master," continued Simonides, when all were served, "is not perfect
in my sight. Henceforth our lives will run on together like rivers which have met and joined
their waters. I think their flowing will be better if every cloud is blown from the sky above
them. You left my door the other day with what seemed a denial of the claims which I have just
allowed in the broadest terms; but it was not so, indeed it was not. Esther is witness that
I recognized you; and that I did not abandon you, let Malluch say."

"Malluch!" exclaimed Ben-Hur.

"One bound to a chair, like me, must have many hands far-reaching, if he would move the world
from which he is so cruelly barred. I have many such, and Malluch is one of the best of them.
And, sometimes"--he cast a grateful glance at the sheik--"sometimes I borrow from others good
of heart, like Ilderim the Generous--good and brave. Let him say if I either denied or forgot you."

Ben-Hur looked at the Arab.

"This is he, good Ilderim, this is he who told you of me?"

Ilderim's eyes twinkled as he nodded his answer.

"How, O my master," said Simonides, "may we without trial tell what a man is? I knew you; I
saw your father in you; but the kind of man you were I did not know. There are people to whom
fortune is a curse in disguise. Were you of them? I sent Malluch to find out for me, and in
the service he was my eyes and ears. Do not blame him. He brought me report of you which was
all good."

"I do not," said Ben-Hur, heartily. "There was wisdom in your goodness."

"The words are very pleasant to me," said the merchant, with feeling, "very pleasant. My fear
of misunderstanding is laid. Let the rivers run on now as God may give them direction."

After an interval he continued:

"I am compelled now by truth. The weaver sits weaving, and, as the shuttle flies, the cloth
increases, and the figures grow, and he dreams dreams meanwhile; so to my hands the fortune
grew, and I wondered at the increase, and asked myself about it many times. I could see a care
not my own went with the enterprises I set going. The simooms which smote others on the desert
jumped over the things which were mine. The storms which heaped the seashore with wrecks did
but blow my ships the sooner into port. Strangest of all, I, so dependent upon others, fixed
to a place like a dead thing, had never a loss by an agent--never. The elements stooped to
serve me, and all my servants, in fact, were faithful."

"It is very strange," said Ben-Hur.

"So I said, and kept saying. Finally, O my master, finally I came to be of your opinion--God
was in it--and, like you, I asked, What can his purpose be? Intelligence is never wasted; intelligence
like God's never stirs except with design. I have held the question in heart, lo! these many
years, watching for an answer. I felt sure, if God were in it, some day, in his own good time,
in his own way, he would show me his purpose, making it clear as a whited house upon a hill.
And I believe he has done so."

Ben-Hur listened with every faculty intent.

"Many years ago, with my people--thy mother was with me, Esther, beautiful as morning over
old Olivet--I sat by the wayside out north of Jerusalem, near the Tombs of the Kings, when
three men passed by riding great white camels, such as had never been seen in the Holy City.
The men were strangers, and from far countries. The first one stopped and asked me a question.
'Where is he that is born King of the Jews?' As if to allay my wonder, he went on to say, 'We
have seen his star in the east, and have come to worship him.' I could not understand, but
followed them to the Damascus Gate; and of every person they met on the way--of the guard at
the Gate, even--they asked the question. All who heard it were amazed like me. In time I forgot
the circumstance, though there was much talk of it as a presage of the Messiah. Alas, alas!
What children we are, even the wisest! When God walks the earth, his steps are often centuries
apart. You have seen Balthasar?"

"And heard him tell his story," said Ben-Hur.

"A miracle!--a very miracle!" cried Simonides. "As he told it to me, good my master, I seemed
to hear the answer I had so long waited; God's purpose burst upon me. Poor will the King be
when he comes--poor and friendless; without following, without armies, without cities or castles;
a kingdom to be set up, and Rome reduced and blotted out. See, see, O my master! thou flushed
with strength, thou trained to arms, thou burdened with riches; behold the opportunity the
Lord hath sent thee! Shall not his purpose be thine? Could a man be born to a more perfect glory?"

Simonides put his whole force in the appeal.

"But the kingdom, the kingdom!" Ben-Hur answered, eagerly. "Balthasar says it is to be of souls."

The pride of the Jew was strong in Simonides, and therefore the slightly contemptuous curl
of the lip with which he began his reply:

"Balthasar has been a witness of wonderful things--of miracles, O my master; and when he speaks
of them, I bow with belief, for they are of sight and sound personal to him. But he is a son
of Mizraim, and not even a proselyte. Hardly may he be supposed to have special knowledge by
virtue of which we must bow to him in a matter of God's dealing with our Israel. The prophets
had their light from Heaven directly, even as he had his--many to one, and Jehovah the same
forever. I must believe the prophets.--Bring me the Torah, Esther."

He proceeded without waiting for her.

"May the testimony of a whole people be slighted, my master? Though you travel from Tyre, which
is by the sea in the north, to the capital of Edom, which is in the desert south, you will
not find a lisper of the Shema, an alms-giver in the Temple, or any one who has ever eaten
of the lamb of the Passover, to tell you the kingdom the King is coming to build for us, the
children of the covenant, is other than of this world, like our father David's. Now where got
they the faith, ask you! We will see presently."

Esther here returned, bringing a number of rolls carefully enveloped in dark-brown linen lettered
quaintly in gold.

"Keep them, daughter, to give to me as I call for them," the father said, in the tender voice
he always used in speaking to her, and continued his argument:

"It were long, good my master--too long, indeed--for me to repeat to you the names of the holy
men who, in the providence of God, succeeded the prophets, only a little less favored than
they--the seers who have written and the preachers who have taught since the Captivity; the
very wise who borrowed their lights from the lamp of Malachi, the last of his line, and whose
great names Hillel and Shammai never tired of repeating in the colleges. Will you ask them
of the kingdom? Thus, the Lord of the sheep in the Book of Enoch--who is he? Who but the King
of whom we are speaking? A throne is set up for him; he smites the earth, and the other kings
are shaken from their thrones, and the scourges of Israel flung into a cavern of fire flaming
with pillars of fire. So also the singer of the Psalms of Solomon--'Behold, O Lord, and raise
up to Israel their king, the son of David, at the time thou knowest, O God, to rule Israel,
thy children.... And he will bring the peoples of the heathen under his yoke to serve him....
And he shall be a righteous king taught of God, ... for he shall rule all the earth by the
word of his mouth forever.' And last, though not least, hear Ezra, the second Moses, in his
visions of the night, and ask him who is the lion with human voice that says to the eagle--which
is Rome--'Thou hast loved liars, and overthrown the cities of the industrious, and razed their
walls, though they did thee no harm. Therefore, begone, that the earth may be refreshed, and
recover itself, and hope in the justice and piety of him who made her.' Whereat the eagle was
seen no more. Surely, O my master, the testimony of these should be enough! But the way to
the fountain's head is open. Let us go up to it at once.--Some wine, Esther, and then the Torah."

"Dost thou believe the prophets, master?" he asked, after drinking. "I know thou dost, for
of such was the faith of all thy kindred.--Give me, Esther, the book which bath in it the visions
of Isaiah."

She gave him the roll he asked.

"'But thou,'" he began reading--"'but thou, Bethlehem Ephrath, though thou be little among
the thousands of Judah, yet out of thee shall he come forth unto me that is to be ruler in
Israel.'--This was he, the very child Balthasar saw and worshipped in the cave. Believest thou
the prophets, O my master?--Give me, Esther, the words of Jeremiah." Believest thou the prophets?--Now,
daughter, the roll of the sayings of that son of Judah in whom there was no blemish."

She gave him the Book of Daniel.

"It is enough. I believe," cried Ben-Hur.

"What then?" asked Simonides. "If the King come poor, will not my master, of his abundance,
give him help?"

"Help him? To the last shekel and the last breath. But why speak of his coming poor?"

"Give me, Esther, the word of the Lord as it came to Zechariah," said Simonides.

She gave him one of the rolls.

"Hear how the King will enter Jerusalem." Then he read, "'Rejoice greatly, O daughter of Zion....
Behold, thy King cometh unto thee with justice and salvation; lowly, and riding upon an ass,
and upon a colt, the foal of an ass.'"

Ben-Hur looked away.

"What see you, O my master?"

"Rome!" he answered, gloomily--"Rome, and her legions. I have dwelt with them in their camps.
I know them."

"Ah!" said Simonides. "Thou shalt be a master of legions for the King, with millions to choose
from."

"Millions!" cried Ben-Hur.

Simonides sat a moment thinking.

"The question of power should not trouble you," he next said.

Ben-Hur looked at him inquiringly.

"You were seeing the lowly King in the act of coming to his own," Simonides answered--"seeing
him on the right hand, as it were, and on the left the brassy legions of Caesar, and you were
asking, What can he do?"

"It was my very thought."

"O my master!" Simonides continued. "You do not know how strong our Israel is. You think of
him as a sorrowful old man weeping by the rivers of Babylon. But go up to Jerusalem next Passover,
and stand on the Xystus or in the Street of Barter, and see him as he is. The promise of the
Lord to father Jacob coming out of Padan-Aram was a law under which our people have not ceased
multiplying--not even in captivity; they grew under foot of the Egyptian; the clench of the
Roman has been but wholesome nurture to them; now they are indeed 'a nation and a company of
nations.' Nor that only, my master; in fact, to measure the strength of Israel--which is, in
fact, measuring what the King can do--you shall not bide solely by the rule of natural increase,
but add thereto the other--I mean the spread of the faith, which will carry you to the far
and near of the whole known earth. Further, the habit is, I know, to think and speak of Jerusalem
as Israel, which may be likened to our finding an embroidered shred, and holding it up as a
magisterial robe of Caesar's. Jerusalem is but a stone of the Temple, or the heart in the body.
Turn from beholding the legions, strong though they be, and count the hosts of the faithful
waiting the old alarm, 'To your tents, O Israel!'--count the many in Persia, children of those
who chose not to return with the returning; count the brethren who swarm the marts of Egypt
and Farther Africa; count the Hebrew colonists eking profit in the West--in Lodinum and the
trade-courts of Spain; count the pure of blood and the proselytes in Greece and in the isles
of the sea, and over in Pontus, and here in Antioch, and, for that matter, those of that city
lying accursed in the shadow of the unclean walls of Rome herself; count the worshippers of
the Lord dwelling in tents along the deserts next us, as well as in the deserts beyond the
Nile: and in the regions across the Caspian, and up in the old lands of Gog and Magog even,
separate those who annually send gifts to the Holy Temple in acknowledgment of God--separate
them, that they may be counted also. And when you have done counting, lo! my master, a census
of the sword hands that await you; lo! a kingdom ready fashioned for him who is to do 'judgment
and justice in the whole earth'--in Rome not less than in Zion. Have then the answer, What
Israel can do, that can the King."

The picture was fervently given.

Upon Ilderim it operated like the blowing of a trumpet. "Oh that I had back my youth!" he cried,
starting to his feet.

Ben-Hur sat still. The speech, he saw, was an invitation to devote his life and fortune to
the mysterious Being who was palpably as much the centre of a great hope with Simonides as
with the devout Egyptian. The idea, as we have seen, was not a new one, but had come to him
repeatedly; once while listening to Malluch in the Grove of Daphne; afterwards more distinctly
while Balthasar was giving his conception of what the kingdom was to be; still later, in the
walk through the old Orchard, it had risen almost, if not quite, into a resolve. At such times
it had come and gone only an idea, attended with feelings more or less acute. Not so now. A
master had it in charge, a master was working it up; already he had exalted it into a cause
brilliant with possibilities and infinitely holy. The effect was as if a door theretofore unseen
had suddenly opened flooding Ben-Hur with light, and admitting him to a service which had been
his one perfect dream--a service reaching far into the future, and rich with the rewards of
duty done, and prizes to sweeten and soothe his ambition. One touch more was needed.

"Let us concede all you say, O Simonides," said Ben-Hur--"that the King will come, and his
kingdom be as Solomon's; say also I am ready to give myself and all I have to him and his cause;
yet more, say that I should do as was God's purpose in the ordering of my life and in your
quick amassment of astonishing fortune; then what? Shall we proceed like blind men building?
Shall we wait till the King comes? Or until he sends for me? You have age and experience on
your side. Answer."

Simonides answered at once.

"We have no choice; none. This letter"--he produced Messala's despatch as he spoke--"this letter
is the signal for action. The alliance proposed between Messala and Gratus we are not strong
enough to resist; we have not the influence at Rome nor the force here. They will kill you
if we wait. How merciful they are, look at me and judge."

He shuddered at the terrible recollection.

"O good my master," he continued, recovering himself; "how strong are you--in purpose, I mean?"

Ben-Hur did not understand him.

"I remember how pleasant the world was to me in my youth," Simonides proceeded.

"Yet," said Ben-Hur, "you were capable of a great sacrifice."

"Yes; for love."

"Has not life other motives as strong?"

Simonides shook his head.

"There is ambition."

"Ambition is forbidden a son of Israel."

"What, then, of revenge?"

The spark dropped upon the inflammable passion; the man's eyes gleamed; his hands shook; he
answered, quickly, "Revenge is a Jew's of right; it is the law."

"A camel, even a dog, will remember a wrong," cried Ilderim.

Directly Simonides picked up the broken thread of his thought.

"There is a work, a work for the King, which should be done in advance of his coming. We may
not doubt that Israel is to be his right hand; but, alas! it is a hand of peace, without cunning
in war. Of the millions, there is not one trained band, not a captain. The mercenaries of the
Herods I do not count, for they are kept to crush us. The condition is as the Roman would have
it; his policy has fruited well for his tyranny; but the time of change is at hand, when the
shepherd shall put on armor, and take to spear and sword, and the feeding flocks be turned
to fighting lions. Some one, my son, must have place next the King at his right hand. Who shall
it be if not he who does this work well?"

Ben-Hur's face flushed at the prospect, though he said, "I see; but speak plainly. A deed to
be done is one thing; how to do it is another."

Simonides sipped the wine Esther brought him, and replied,

"The sheik, and thou, my master, shall be principals, each with a part. I will remain here,
carrying on as now, and watchful that the spring go not dry. Thou shalt betake thee to Jerusalem,
and thence to the wilderness, and begin numbering the fighting-men of Israel, and telling them
into tens and hundreds, and choosing captains and training them, and in secret places hoarding
arms, for which I shall keep thee supplied. Commencing over in Perea, thou shalt go then to
Galilee, whence it is but a step to Jerusalem. In Perea, the desert will be at thy back, and
Ilderim in reach of thy hand. He will keep the roads, so that nothing shall pass without thy
knowledge. He will help thee in many ways. Until the ripening time no one shall know what is
here contracted. Mine is but a servant's part. I have spoken to Ilderim. What sayest thou?"

Ben-Hur looked at the sheik.

"It is as he says, son of Hur," the Arab responded. "I have given my word, and he is content
with it; but thou shalt have my oath, binding me, and the ready hands of my tribe, and whatever
serviceable thing I have."

The three--Simonides, Ilderim, Esther--gazed at Ben-Hur fixedly.

"Every man," he answered, at first sadly, "has a cup of pleasure poured for him, and soon or
late it comes to his hand, and he tastes and drinks--every man but me. I see, Simonides, and
thou, O generous sheik!--I see whither the proposal tends. If I accept, and enter upon the
course, farewell peace, and the hopes which cluster around it. The doors I might enter and
the gates of quiet life will shut behind me, never to open again, for Rome keeps them all;
and her outlawry will follow me, and her hunters; and in the tombs near cities and the dismal
caverns of remotest hills, I must eat my crust and take my rest."

The speech was broken by a sob. All turned to Esther, who hid her face upon her father's shoulder.

"I did not think of you, Esther," said Simonides, gently, for he was himself deeply moved.

"It is well enough, Simonides," said Ben-Hur. "A man bears a hard doom better, knowing there
is pity for him. Let me go on."

They gave him ear again.

"I was about to say," he continued, "I have no choice, but take the part you assign me; and
as remaining here is to meet an ignoble death, I will to the work at once."

"Shall we have writings?" asked Simonides, moved by his habit of business.

"I rest upon your word," said Ben-Hur.

"And I," Ilderim answered.

Thus simply was effected the treaty which was to alter Ben-Hur's life. And almost immediately
the latter added,

"It is done, then."

"May the God of Abraham help us!" Simonides exclaimed.

"One word now, my friends," Ben-Hur said, more cheerfully. "By your leave, I will be my own
until after the games. It is not probable Messala will set peril on foot for me until he has
given the procurator time to answer him; and that cannot be in less than seven days from the
despatch of his letter. The meeting him in the Circus is a pleasure I would buy at whatever risk."

Ilderim, well pleased, assented readily, and Simonides, intent on business, added, "It is well;
for look you, my master, the delay will give me time to do you a good part. I understood you
to speak of an inheritance derived from Arrius. Is it in property?"

"A villa near Misenum, and houses in Rome."

"I suggest, then, the sale of the property, and safe deposit of the proceeds. Give me an account
of it, and I will have authorities drawn, and despatch an agent on the mission forthwith. We
will forestall the imperial robbers at least this once."

"You shall have the account to-morrow."

"Then, if there be nothing more, the work of the night is done," said Simonides.

Ilderim combed his beard complacently, saying, "And well done."

"The bread and wine again, Esther. Sheik Ilderim will make us happy by staying with us till
to-morrow, or at his pleasure; and thou, my master--"

"Let the horses be brought," said Ben-Hur. "I will return to the Orchard. The enemy will not
discover me if I go now, and"--he glanced at Ilderim--"the four will be glad to see me."

As the day dawned, he and Malluch dismounted at the door of the tent.

CHAPTER IX

Next night, about the fourth hour, Ben-Hur stood on the terrace of the great warehouse with
Esther. Below them, on the landing, there was much running about, and shifting of packages
and boxes, and shouting of men, whose figures, stooping, heaving, hauling, looked, in the light
of the crackling torches kindled in their aid, like the laboring genii of the fantastic Eastern
tales. A galley was being laden for instant departure. Simonides had not yet come from his
office, in which, at the last moment, he would deliver to the captain of the vessel instructions
to proceed without stop to Ostia, the seaport of Rome, and, after landing a passenger there,
continue more leisurely to Valentia, on the coast of Spain.

The passenger is the agent going to dispose of the estate derived from Arrius the duumvir.
When the lines of the vessel are cast off, and she is put about, and her voyage begun, Ben-Hur
will be committed irrevocably to the work undertaken the night before. If he is disposed to
repent the agreement with Ilderim, a little time is allowed him to give notice and break it
off. He is master, and has only to say the word.

Such may have been the thought at the moment in his mind. He was standing with folded arms,
looking upon the scene in the manner of a man debating with himself. Young, handsome, rich,
but recently from the patrician circles of Roman society, it is easy to think of the world
besetting him with appeals not to give more to onerous duty or ambition attended with outlawry
and danger. We can even imagine the arguments with which he was pressed; the hopelessness of
contention with Caesar; the uncertainty veiling everything connected with the King and his
coming; the ease, honors, state, purchasable like goods in market; and, strongest of all, the
sense newly acquired of home, with friends to make it delightful. Only those who have been
wanderers long desolate can know the power there was in the latter appeal.

Let us add now, the world--always cunning enough of itself; always whispering to the weak,
Stay, take thine ease; always presenting the sunny side of life--the world was in this instance
helped by Ben-Hur's companion.

"Were you ever at Rome?" he asked.

"No," Esther replied.

"Would you like to go?"

"I think not."

"Why?"

"I am afraid of Rome," she answered, with a perceptible tremor of the voice.

He looked at her then--or rather down upon her, for at his side she appeared little more than
a child. In the dim light he could not see her face distinctly; even the form was shadowy.
But again he was reminded of Tirzah, and a sudden tenderness fell upon him--just so the lost
sister stood with him on the house-top the calamitous morning of the accident to Gratus. Poor
Tirzah! Where was she now? Esther had the benefit of the feeling evoked. If not his sister,
he could never look upon her as his servant; and that she was his servant in fact would make
him always the more considerate and gentle towards her.

"I cannot think of Rome," she continued, recovering her voice, and speaking in her quiet womanly
way--"I cannot think of Rome as a city of palaces and temples, and crowded with people; she
is to me a monster which has possession of one of the beautiful lands, and lies there luring
men to ruin and death--a monster which it is not possible to resist--a ravenous beast gorging
with blood. Why--"

She faltered, looked down, stopped.

"Go on," said Ben-Hur, reassuringly.

She drew closer to him, looked up again, and said, "Why must you make her your enemy? Why not
rather make peace with her, and be at rest? You have had many ills, and borne them; you have
survived the snares laid for you by foes. Sorrow has consumed your youth; is it well to give
it the remainder of your days?"

The girlish face under his eyes seemed to come nearer and get whiter as the pleading went on;
he stooped towards it, and asked, softly, "What would you have me do, Esther?"

She hesitated a moment, then asked, in return, "Is the property near Rome a residence?"

"Yes."

"And pretty?"

"It is beautiful--a palace in the midst of gardens and shell-strewn walks; fountains without
and within; statuary in the shady nooks; hills around covered with vines, and so high that
Neapolis and Vesuvius are in sight, and the sea an expanse of purpling blue dotted with restless
sails. Caesar has a country-seat near-by, but in Rome they say the old Arrian villa is the
prettiest."

"And the life there, is it quiet?"

"There was never a summer day, never a moonlit night, more quiet, save when visitors come.
Now that the old owner is gone, and I am here, there is nothing to break its silence--nothing,
unless it be the whispering of servants, or the whistling of happy birds, or the noise of fountains
at play; it is changeless, except as day by day old flowers fade and fall, and new ones bud
and bloom, and the sunlight gives place to the shadow of a passing cloud. The life, Esther,
was all too quiet for me. It made me restless by keeping always present a feeling that I, who
have so much to do, was dropping into idle habits, and tying myself with silken chains, and
after a while--and not a long while either--would end with nothing done."

She looked off over the river.

"Why did you ask?" he said.

"Good my master--"

"No, no, Esther--not that. Call me friend--brother, if you will; I am not your master, and
will not be. Call me brother."

He could not see the flush of pleasure which reddened her face, and the glow of the eyes that
went out lost in the void above the river.

"I cannot understand," she said, "the nature which prefers the life you are going to--a life of--"

"Of violence, and it may be of blood," he said, completing the sentence.

"Yes," she added, "the nature which could prefer that life to such as might be in the beautiful
villa."

"Esther, you mistake. There is no preference. Alas! the Roman is not so kind. I am going of
necessity. To stay here is to die; and if I go there, the end will be the same--a poisoned
cup, a bravo's blow, or a judge's sentence obtained by perjury. Messala and the procurator
Gratus are rich with plunder of my father's estate, and it is more important to them to keep
their gains now than was their getting in the first instance. A peaceable settlement is out
of reach, because of the confession it would imply. And then--then-- Ah, Esther, if I could
buy them, I do not know that I would. I do not believe peace possible to me; no, not even in
the sleepy shade and sweet air of the marble porches of the old villa--no matter who might
be there to help me bear the burden of the days, nor by what patience of love she made the
effort. Peace is not possible to me while my people are lost, for I must be watchful to find
them. If I find them, and they have suffered wrong, shall not the guilty suffer for it? If
they are dead by violence, shall the murderers escape? Oh, I could not sleep for dreams! Nor
could the holiest love, by any stratagem, lull me to a rest which conscience would not strangle."

"Is it so bad then?" she asked, her voice tremulous with feeling. "Can nothing, nothing, be done?"

Ben-Hur took her hand.

"Do you care so much for me?"

"Yes," she answered, simply.

The hand was warm, and in the palm of his it was lost. He felt it tremble. Then the Egyptian
came, so the opposite of this little one; so tall, so audacious, with a flattery so cunning,
a wit so ready, a beauty so wonderful, a manner so bewitching. He carried the hand to his lips,
and gave it back.

"You shall be another Tirzah to me, Esther."

"Who is Tirzah?"

"The little sister the Roman stole from me, and whom I must find before I can rest or be happy."

Just then a gleam of light flashed athwart the terrace and fell upon the two; and, looking
round, they saw a servant roll Simonides in his chair out of the door. They went to the merchant,
and in the after-talk he was principal.

Immediately the lines of the galley were cast off, and she swung round, and, midst the flashing
of torches and the shouting of joyous sailors, hurried off to the sea--leaving Ben-Hur committed
to the cause of the KING WHO WAS TO COME.

CHAPTER X

The day before the games, in the afternoon, all Ilderim's racing property was taken to the
city, and put in quarters adjoining the Circus. Along with it the good man carried a great
deal of property not of that class; so with servants, retainers mounted and armed, horses in
leading, cattle driven, camels laden with baggage, his outgoing from the Orchard was not unlike
a tribal migration. The people along the road failed not to laugh at his motley procession;
on the other side, it was observed that, with all his irascibility, he was not in the least
offended by their rudeness. If he was under surveillance, as he had reason to believe, the
informer would describe the semi-barbarous show with which he came up to the races. The Romans
would laugh; the city would be amused; but what cared he? Next morning the pageant would be
far on the road to the desert, and going with it would be every movable thing of value belonging
to the Orchard--everything save such as were essential to the success of his four. He was,
in fact, started home; his tents were all folded; the dowar was no more; in twelve hours all
would be out of reach, pursue who might. A man is never safer than when he is under the laugh;
and the shrewd old Arab knew it.

Neither he nor Ben-Hur overestimated the influence of Messala; it was their opinion, however,
that he would not begin active measures against them until after the meeting in the Circus;
if defeated there, especially if defeated by Ben-Hur, they might instantly look for the worst
he could do; he might not even wait for advices from Gratus. With this view, they shaped their
course, and were prepared to betake themselves out of harm's way. They rode together now in
good spirits, calmly confident of success on the morrow.

On the way, they came upon Malluch in waiting for them. The faithful fellow gave no sign by
which it was possible to infer any knowledge on his part of the relationship so recently admitted
between Ben-Hur and Simonides, or of the treaty between them and Ilderim. He exchanged salutations
as usual, and produced a paper, saying to the sheik, "I have here the notice of the editor
of the games, just issued, in which you will find your horses published for the race. You will
find in it also the order of exercises. Without waiting, good sheik, I congratulate you upon
your victory."

He gave the paper over, and, leaving the worthy to master it, turned to Ben-Hur.

"To you also, son of Arrius, my congratulations. There is nothing now to prevent your meeting
Messala. Every condition preliminary to the race is complied with. I have the assurance from
the editor himself."

"I thank you, Malluch," said Ben-Hur.

Malluch proceeded:

"Your color is white, and Messala's mixed scarlet and gold. The good effects of the choice
are visible already. Boys are now hawking white ribbons along the streets; tomorrow every Arab
and Jew in the city will wear them. In the Circus you will see the white fairly divide the
galleries with the red."

"The galleries--but not the tribunal over the Porta Pompae."

"No; the scarlet and gold will rule there. But if we win"--Malluch chuckled with the pleasure
of the thought--"if we win, how the dignitaries will tremble! They will bet, of course, according
to their scorn of everything not Roman--two, three, five to one on Messala, because he is Roman."
Dropping his voice yet lower, he added, "It ill becomes a Jew of good standing in the Temple
to put his money at such a hazard; yet, in confidence, I will have a friend next behind the
consul's seat to accept offers of three to one, or five, or ten--the madness may go to such
height. I have put to his order six thousand shekels for the purpose."

"Nay, Malluch," said Ben-Hur, "a Roman will wager only in his Roman coin. Suppose you find
your friend to-night, and place to his order sestertii in such amount as you choose. And look
you, Malluch--let him be instructed to seek wagers with Messala and his supporters; Ilderim's
four against Messala's."

Malluch reflected a moment.

"The effect will be to centre interest upon your contest."

"The very thing I seek, Malluch."

"I see, I see."

"Ay, Malluch; would you serve me perfectly, help me to fix the public eye upon our race--Messala's
and mine."

Malluch spoke quickly--"It can be done."

"Then let it be done," said Ben-Hur.

"Enormous wagers offered will answer; if the offers are accepted, all the better."

Malluch turned his eyes watchfully upon Ben-Hur.

"Shall I not have back the equivalent of his robbery?" said Ben-Hur, partly to himself. "Another
opportunity may not come. And if I could break him in fortune as well as in pride! Our father
Jacob could take no offence."

A look of determined will knit his handsome face, giving emphasis to his further speech.

"Yes, it shall be. Hark, Malluch! Stop not in thy offer of sestertii. Advance them to talents,
if any there be who dare so high. Five, ten, twenty talents; ay, fifty, so the wager be with
Messala himself."

"It is a mighty sum," said Malluch. "I must have security."

"So thou shalt. Go to Simonides, and tell him I wish the matter arranged. Tell him my heart
is set on the ruin of my enemy, and that the opportunity hath such excellent promise that I
choose such hazards. On our side be the God of our fathers. Go, good Malluch. Let this not slip."

And Malluch, greatly delighted, gave him parting salutation, and started to ride away, but
returned presently.

"Your pardon," he said to Ben-Hur. "There was another matter. I could not get near Messala's
chariot myself, but I had another measure it; and, from his report, its hub stands quite a
palm higher from the ground than yours."

"A palm! So much?" cried Ben-Hur, joyfully.

Then he leaned over to Malluch.

"As thou art a son of Judah, Malluch, and faithful to thy kin, get thee a seat in the gallery
over the Gate of Triumph, down close to the balcony in front of the pillars, and watch well
when we make the turns there; watch well, for if I have favor at all, I will-- Nay, Malluch,
let it go unsaid! Only get thee there, and watch well."

At that moment a cry burst from Ilderim.

"Ha! By the splendor of God! what is this?"

He drew near Ben-Hur with a finger pointing on the face of the notice.

"Read," said Ben-Hur.

"No; better thou."

Ben-Hur took the paper, which, signed by the prefect of the province as editor, performed the
office of a modern programme, giving particularly the several divertisements provided for the
occasion. It informed the public that there would be first a procession of extraordinary splendor;
that the procession would be succeeded by the customary honors to the god Consus, whereupon
the games would begin; running, leaping, wrestling, boxing, each in the order stated. The names
of the competitors were given, with their several nationalities and schools of training, the
trials in which they had been engaged, the prizes won, and the prizes now offered; under the
latter head the sums of money were stated in illuminated letters, telling of the departure
of the day when the simple chaplet of pine or laurel was fully enough for the victor, hungering
for glory as something better than riches, and content with it.

Over these parts of the programme Ben-Hur sped with rapid eyes. At last he came to the announcement
of the race. He read it slowly. Attending lovers of the heroic sports were assured they would
certainly be gratified by an Orestean struggle unparalleled in Antioch. The city offered the
spectacle in honor of the consul. One hundred thousand sestertii and a crown of laurel were
the prizes. Then followed the particulars. The entries were six in all--fours only permitted;
and, to further interest in the performance, the competitors would be turned into the course
together. Each four then received description.

"I. A four of Lysippus the Corinthian--two grays, a bay, and a black; entered at Alexandria
last year, and again at Corinth, where they were winners. Lysippus, driver. Color, yellow.

"II. A four of Messala of Rome--two white, two black; victors of the Circensian as exhibited
in the Circus Maximus last year. Messala, driver. Colors, scarlet and gold.

"III. A four of Cleanthes the Athenian--three gray, one bay; winners at the Isthmian last year.
Cleanthes, driver. Color, green.

"IV. A four of Dicaeus the Byzantine--two black, one gray, one bay; winners this year at Byzantium.
Dicaeus, driver. Color, black.

"V. A four of Admetus the Sidonian--all grays. Thrice entered at Caesarea, and thrice victors.
Admetus, driver. Color, blue.

"VI. A four of Ilderim, sheik of the Desert. All bays; first race. Ben-Hur, a Jew, driver.
Color, white."

BEN-HUR, A JEW, DRIVER!

Why that name instead of Arrius?

Ben-Hur raised his eyes to Ilderim. He had found the cause of the Arab's outcry. Both rushed
to the same conclusion.

The hand was the hand of Messala!

CHAPTER XI

Evening was hardly come upon Antioch, when the Omphalus, nearly in the centre of the city,
became a troubled fountain from which in every direction, but chiefly down to the Nymphaeum
and east and west along the Colonnade of Herod, flowed currents of people, for the time given
up to Bacchus and Apollo.

For such indulgence anything more fitting cannot be imagined than the great roofed streets,
which were literally miles on miles of porticos wrought of marble, polished to the last degree
of finish, and all gifts to the voluptuous city by princes careless of expenditure where, as
in this instance, they thought they were eternizing themselves. Darkness was not permitted
anywhere; and the singing, the laughter, the shouting, were incessant, and in compound like
the roar of waters dashing through hollow grots, confused by a multitude of echoes.

The many nationalities represented, though they might have amazed a stranger, were not peculiar
to Antioch. Of the various missions of the great empire, one seems to have been the fusion
of men and the introduction of strangers to each other; accordingly, whole peoples rose up
and went at pleasure, taking with them their costumes, customs, speech, and gods; and where
they chose, they stopped, engaged in business, built houses, erected altars, and were what
they had been at home.

There was a peculiarity, however, which could not have failed the notice of a looker-on this
night in Antioch. Nearly everybody wore the colors of one or other of the charioteers announced
for the morrow's race. Sometimes it was in form of a scarf, sometimes a badge; often a ribbon
or a feather. Whatever the form, it signified merely the wearer's partiality; thus, green published
a friend of Cleanthes the Athenian, and black an adherent of the Byzantine. This was according
to a custom, old probably as the day of the race of Orestes--a custom, by the way, worthy of
study as a marvel of history, illustrative of the absurd yet appalling extremities to which
men frequently suffer their follies to drag them.

The observer abroad on this occasion, once attracted to the wearing of colors, would have very
shortly decided that there were three in predominance--green, white, and the mixed scarlet
and gold.

But let us from the streets to the palace on the island.

The five great chandeliers in the saloon are freshly lighted. The assemblage is much the same
as that already noticed in connection with the place. The divan has its corps of sleepers and
burden of garments, and the tables yet resound with the rattle and clash of dice. Yet the greater
part of the company are not doing anything. They walk about, or yawn tremendously, or pause
as they pass each other to exchange idle nothings. Will the weather be fair to-morrow? Are
the preparations for the games complete? Do the laws of the Circus in Antioch differ from the
laws of the Circus in Rome? Truth is, the young fellows are suffering from ennui. Their heavy
work is done; that is, we would find their tablets, could we look at them, covered with memoranda
of wagers--wagers on every contest; on the running, the wrestling, the boxing; on everything
but the chariot-race.

And why not on that?

Good reader, they cannot find anybody who will hazard so much as a denarius with them against
Messala.

There are no colors in the saloon but his.

No one thinks of his defeat.

Why, they say, is he not perfect in his training? Did he not graduate from an imperial lanista?
Were not his horses winners at the Circensian in the Circus Maximus? And then--ah, yes! he
is a Roman!

In a corner, at ease on the divan, Messala himself may be seen. Around him, sitting or standing,
are his courtierly admirers, plying him with questions. There is, of course, but one topic.

Enter Drusus and Cecilius.

"Ah!" cries the young prince, throwing himself on the divan at Messala's feet, "Ah, by Bacchus,
I am tired!"

"Whither away?" asks Messala.

"Up the street; up to the Omphalus, and beyond--who shall say how far? Rivers of people; never
so many in the city before. They say we will see the whole world at the Circus to-morrow."

Messala laughed scornfully.

"The idiots! Perpol! They never beheld a Circensian with Caesar for editor. But, my Drusus,
what found you?"

"Nothing."

"O--ah! You forget," said Cecilius.

"What?" asked Drusus.

"The procession of whites."

"Mirabile!" cried Drusus, half rising. "We met a faction of whites, and they had a banner.
But--ha, ha, ha!"

He fell back indolently.

"Cruel Drusus--not to go on," said Messala.

"Scum of the desert were they, my Messala, and garbage-eaters from the Jacob's Temple in Jerusalem.
What had I to do with them!"

"Nay," said Cecilius, "Drusus is afraid of a laugh, but I am not, my Messala."

"Speak thou, then."

"Well, we stopped the faction, and--"

"Offered them a wager," said Drusus, relenting, and taking the word from the shadow's mouth.
"And--ha, ha, ha!--one fellow with not enough skin on his face to make a worm for a carp stepped
forth, and--ha, ha, ha!--said yes. I drew my tablets. 'Who is your man?' I asked. 'Ben-Hur,
the Jew,' said he. Then I: 'What shall it be? How much?' He answered, 'A--a--' Excuse me, Messala.
By Jove's thunder, I cannot go on for laughter! Ha, ha, ha!"

The listeners leaned forward.

Messala looked to Cecilius.

"A shekel," said the latter.

"A shekel! A shekel!"

A burst of scornful laughter ran fast upon the repetition.

"And what did Drusus?" asked Messala.

An outcry over about the door just then occasioned a rush to that quarter; and, as the noise
there continued, and grew louder, even Cecilius betook himself off, pausing only to say, "The
noble Drusus, my Messala, put up his tablets and--lost the shekel."

"A white! A white!"

"Let him come!"

"This way, this way!"

These and like exclamations filled the saloon, to the stoppage of other speech. The dice-players
quit their games; the sleepers awoke, rubbed their eyes, drew their tablets, and hurried to
the common centre.

"I offer you--"

"And I--"

"I--"

The person so warmly received was the respectable Jew, Ben-Hur's fellow-voyager from Cyprus.
He entered grave, quiet, observant. His robe was spotlessly white; so was the cloth of his
turban. Bowing and smiling at the welcome, he moved slowly towards the central table. Arrived
there, he drew his robe about him in a stately manner, took seat, and waved his hand. The gleam
of a jewel on a finger helped him not a little to the silence which ensued.

"Romans--most noble Romans--I salute you!" he said.

"Easy, by Jupiter! Who is he?" asked Drusus.

"A dog of Israel--Sanballat by name--purveyor for the army; residence, Rome; vastly rich; grown
so as a contractor of furnishments which he never furnishes. He spins mischiefs, nevertheless,
finer than spiders spin their webs. Come--by the girdle of Venus! let us catch him!"

Messala arose as he spoke, and, with Drusus, joined the mass crowded about the purveyor.

"It came to me on the street," said that person, producing his tablets, and opening them on
the table with an impressive air of business, "that there was great discomfort in the palace
because offers on Messala were going without takers. The gods, you know, must have sacrifices;
and here am I. You see my color; let us to the matter. Odds first, amounts next. What will
you give me?"

The audacity seemed to stun his hearers.

"Haste!" he said. "I have an engagement with the consul."

The spur was effective.

"Two to one," cried half a dozen in a voice.

"What!" exclaimed the purveyor, astonished. "Only two to one, and yours a Roman!"

"Take three, then."

"Three say you--only three--and mine but a dog of a Jew! Give me four."

"Four it is," said a boy, stung by the taunt.

"Five--give me five," cried the purveyor, instantly.

A profound stillness fell upon the assemblage.

"The consul--your master and mine--is waiting for me."

The inaction became awkward to the many.

"Give me five--for the honor of Rome, five."

"Five let it be," said one in answer.

There was a sharp cheer--a commotion--and Messala himself appeared.

"Five let it be," he said.

And Sanballat smiled, and made ready to write.

"If Caesar die to-morrow," he said, "Rome will not be all bereft. There is at least one other
with spirit to take his place. Give me six."

"Six be it," answered Messala.

There was another shout louder than the first.

"Six be it," repeated Messala. "Six to one--the difference between a Roman and a Jew. And,
having found it, now, O redemptor of the flesh of swine, let us on. The amount--and quickly.
The consul may send for thee, and I will then be bereft."

Sanballat took the laugh against him coolly, and wrote, and offered the writing to Messala.

"Read, read!" everybody demanded.

And Messala read:

"Mem.--Chariot-race. Messala of Rome, in wager with Sanballat, also of Rome, says he will beat
Ben-Hur, the Jew. Amount of wager, twenty talents. Odds to Sanballat, six to one.

"Witnesses: SANBALLAT."

There was no noise, no motion. Each person seemed held in the pose the reading found him. Messala
stared at the memorandum, while the eyes which had him in view opened wide, and stared at him.
He felt the gaze, and thought rapidly. So lately he stood in the same place, and in the same
way hectored the countrymen around him. They would remember it. If he refused to sign, his
hero-ship was lost. And sign he could not; he was not worth one hundred talents, nor the fifth
part of the sum. Suddenly his mind became a blank; he stood speechless; the color fled his
face. An idea at last came to his relief.

"Thou Jew!" he said, "where hast thou twenty talents? Show me."

Sanballat's provoking smile deepened.

"There," he replied, offering Messala a paper.

"Read, read!" arose all around.

Again Messala read:

"AT ANTIOCH, Tammuz 16th day.

"The bearer, Sanballat of Rome, hath now to his order with me fifty talents, coin of Caesar.

SIMONIDES."

"Fifty talents, fifty talents!" echoed the throng, in amazement.

Then Drusus came to the rescue.

"By Hercules!" he shouted, "the paper lies, and the Jew is a liar. Who but Caesar hath fifty
talents at order? Down with the insolent white!"

The cry was angry, and it was angrily repeated; yet Sanballat kept his seat, and his smile
grew more exasperating the longer he waited. At length Messala spoke.

"Hush! One to one, my countrymen--one to one, for love of our ancient Roman name."

The timely action recovered him his ascendancy.

"O thou circumcised dog!" he continued, to Sanballat, "I gave thee six to one, did I not?"

"Yes," said the Jew, quietly.

"Well, give me now the fixing of the amount."

"With reserve, if the amount be trifling, have thy will," answered Sanballat.

"Write, then, five in place of twenty."

"Hast thou so much?"

"By the mother of the gods, I will show you receipts."

"Nay, the word of so brave a Roman must pass. Only make the sum even--six make it, and I will
write."

"Write it so."

And forthwith they exchanged writings.

Sanballat immediately arose and looked around him, a sneer in place of his smile. No man better
than he knew those with whom he was dealing.

"Romans," he said, "another wager, if you dare! Five talents against five talents that the
white will win. I challenge you collectively."

They were again surprised.

"What!" he cried, louder. "Shall it be said in the Circus to-morrow that a dog of Israel went
into the saloon of the palace full of Roman nobles--among them the scion of a Caesar--and laid
five talents before them in challenge, and they had not the courage to take it up?"

The sting was unendurable.

"Have done, O insolent!" said Drusus, "write the challenge, and leave it on the table; and
to-morrow, if we find thou hast indeed so much money to put at such hopeless hazard, I, Drusus,
promise it shall be taken."

Sanballat wrote again, and, rising, said, unmoved as ever, "See, Drusus, I leave the offer
with you. When it is signed, send it to me any time before the race begins. I will be found
with the consul in a seat over the Porta Pompae. Peace to you; peace to all."

He bowed, and departed, careless of the shout of derision with which they pursued him out of
the door.

In the night the story of the prodigious wager flew along the streets and over the city; and
Ben-Hur, lying with his four, was told of it, and also that Messala's whole fortune was on
the hazard.

And he slept never so soundly.

CHAPTER XII

The Circus at Antioch stood on the south bank of the river, nearly opposite the island, differing
in no respect from the plan of such buildings in general.

In the purest sense, the games were a gift to the public; consequently, everybody was free
to attend; and, vast as the holding capacity of the structure was, so fearful were the people,
on this occasion, lest there should not be room for them, that, early the day before the opening
of the exhibition, they took up all the vacant spaces in the vicinity, where their temporary
shelter suggested an army in waiting.

At midnight the entrances were thrown wide, and the rabble, surging in, occupied the quarters
assigned to them, from which nothing less than an earthquake or an army with spears could have
dislodged them. They dozed the night away on the benches, and breakfasted there; and there
the close of the exercises found them, patient and sight-hungry as in the beginning.

The better people, their seats secured, began moving towards the Circus about the first hour
of the morning, the noble and very rich among them distinguished by litters and retinues of
liveried servants.

By the second hour, the efflux from the city was a stream unbroken and innumerable.

Exactly as the gnomon of the official dial up in the citadel pointed the second hour half gone,
the legion, in full panoply, and with all its standards on exhibit, descended from Mount Sulpius;
and when the rear of the last cohort disappeared in the bridge, Antioch was literally abandoned--not
that the Circus could hold the multitude, but that the multitude was gone out to it, nevertheless.

A great concourse on the river shore witnessed the consul come over from the island in a barge
of state. As the great man landed, and was received by the legion, the martial show for one
brief moment transcended the attraction of the Circus.

At the third hour, the audience, if such it may be termed, was assembled; at last, a flourish
of trumpets called for silence, and instantly the gaze of over a hundred thousand persons was
directed towards a pile forming the eastern section of the building.

There was a basement first, broken in the middle by a broad arched passage, called the Porta
Pompae, over which, on an elevated tribunal magnificently decorated with insignia and legionary
standards, the consul sat in the place of honor. On both sides of the passage the basement
was divided into stalls termed carceres, each protected in front by massive gates swung to
statuesque pilasters. Over the stalls next was a cornice crowned by a low balustrade; back
of which the seats arose in theatre arrangement, all occupied by a throng of dignitaries superbly
attired. The pile extended the width of the Circus, and was flanked on both sides by towers
which, besides helping the architects give grace to their work, served the velaria, or purple
awnings, stretched between them so as to throw the whole quarter in a shade that became exceedingly
grateful as the day advanced.

This structure, it is now thought, can be made useful in helping the reader to a sufficient
understanding of the arrangement of the rest of the interior of the Circus. He has only to
fancy himself seated on the tribunal with the consul, facing to the west, where everything
is under his eye.

On the right and left, if he will look, he will see the main entrances, very ample, and guarded
by gates hinged to the towers.

Directly below him is the arena--a level plane of considerable extent, covered with fine white
sand. There all the trials will take place except the running.

Looking across this sanded arena westwardly still, there is a pedestal of marble supporting
three low conical pillars of gray stone, much carven. Many an eye will hunt for those pillars
before the day is done, for they are the first goal, and mark the beginning and end of the
race-course. Behind the pedestal, leaving a passage-way and space for an altar, commences a
wall ten or twelve feet in breadth and five or six in height, extending thence exactly two
hundred yards, or one Olympic stadium. At the farther, or westward, extremity of the wall there
is another pedestal, surmounted with pillars which mark the second goal.

The racers will enter the course on the right of the first goal, and keep the wall all the
time to their left. The beginning and ending points of the contest lie, consequently, directly
in front of the consul across the arena; and for that reason his seat was admittedly the most
desirable in the Circus.

Now if the reader, who is still supposed to be seated on the consular tribunal over the Porta
Pompae, will look up from the ground arrangement of the interior, the first point to attract
his notice will be the marking of the outer boundary-line of the course--that is, a plain-faced,
solid wall, fifteen or twenty feet in height, with a balustrade on its cope, like that over
the carceres, or stalls, in the east. This balcony, if followed round the course, will be found
broken in three places to allow passages of exit and entrance, two in the north and one in
the west; the latter very ornate, and called the Gate of Triumph, because, when all is over,
the victors will pass out that way, crowned, and with triumphal escort and ceremonies.

At the west end the balcony encloses the course in the form of a half circle, and is made to
uphold two great galleries.

Directly behind the balustrade on the coping of the balcony is the first seat, from which ascend
the succeeding benches, each higher than the one in front of it; giving to view a spectacle
of surpassing interest--the spectacle of a vast space ruddy and glistening with human faces,
and rich with varicolored costumes.

The commonalty occupy quarters over in the west, beginning at the point of termination of an
awning, stretched, it would seem, for the accommodation of the better classes exclusively.

Having thus the whole interior of the Circus under view at the moment of the sounding of the
trumpets, let the reader next imagine the multitude seated and sunk to sudden silence, and
motionless in its intensity of interest.

Out of the Porta Pompae over in the east rises a sound mixed of voices and instruments harmonized.
Presently, forth issues the chorus of the procession with which the celebration begins; the
editor and civic authorities of the city, givers of the games, follow in robes and garlands;
then the gods, some on platforms borne by men, others in great four-wheel carriages gorgeously
decorated; next them, again, the contestants of the day, each in costume exactly as he will
run, wrestle, leap, box, or drive.

Slowly crossing the arena, the procession proceeds to make circuit of the course. The display
is beautiful and imposing. Approval runs before it in a shout, as the water rises and swells
in front of a boat in motion. If the dumb, figured gods make no sign of appreciation of the
welcome, the editor and his associates are not so backward.

The reception of the athletes is even more demonstrative, for there is not a man in the assemblage
who has not something in wager upon them, though but a mite or farthing. And it is noticeable,
as the classes move by, that the favorites among them are speedily singled out: either their
names are loudest in the uproar, or they are more profusely showered with wreaths and garlands
tossed to them from the balcony.

If there is a question as to the popularity with the public of the several games, it is now
put to rest. To the splendor of the chariots and the superexcellent beauty of the horses, the
charioteers add the personality necessary to perfect the charm of their display. Their tunics,
short, sleeveless, and of the finest woollen texture, are of the assigned colors. A horseman
accompanies each one of them except Ben-Hur, who, for some reason--possibly distrust--has chosen
to go alone; so, too, they are all helmeted but him. As they approach, the spectators stand
upon the benches, and there is a sensible deepening of the clamor, in which a sharp listener
may detect the shrill piping of women and children; at the same time, the things roseate flying
from the balcony thicken into a storm, and, striking the men, drop into the chariot-beds, which
are threatened with filling to the tops. Even the horses have a share in the ovation; nor may
it be said they are less conscious than their masters of the honors they receive.

Very soon, as with the other contestants, it is made apparent that some of the drivers are
more in favor than others; and then the discovery follows that nearly every individual on the
benches, women and children as well as men, wears a color, most frequently a ribbon upon the
breast or in the hair: now it is green, now yellow, now blue; but, searching the great body
carefully, it is manifest that there is a preponderance of white, and scarlet and gold.

In a modern assemblage called together as this one is, particularly where there are sums at
hazard upon the race, a preference would be decided by the qualities or performance of the
horses; here, however, nationality was the rule. If the Byzantine and Sidonian found small
support, it was because their cities were scarcely represented on the benches. On their side,
the Greeks, though very numerous, were divided between the Corinthian and the Athenian, leaving
but a scant showing of green and yellow. Messala's scarlet and gold would have been but little
better had not the citizens of Antioch, proverbially a race of courtiers, joined the Romans
by adopting the color of their favorite. There were left then the country people, or Syrians,
the Jews, and the Arabs; and they, from faith in the blood of the sheik's four, blent largely
with hate of the Romans, whom they desired, above all things, to see beaten and humbled, mounted
the white, making the most noisy, and probably the most numerous, faction of all.

As the charioteers move on in the circuit, the excitement increases; at the second goal, where,
especially in the galleries, the white is the ruling color, the people exhaust their flowers
and rive the air with screams.

"Messala! Messala!"

"Ben-Hur! Ben-Hur!"

Such are the cries.

Upon the passage of the procession, the factionists take their seats and resume conversation.

"Ah, by Bacchus! was he not handsome?" exclaims a woman, whose Romanism is betrayed by the
colors flying in her hair.

"And how splendid his chariot!" replies a neighbor, of the same proclivities. "It is all ivory
and gold. Jupiter grant he wins!"

The notes on the bench behind them were entirely different.

"A hundred shekels on the Jew!"

The voice is high and shrill.

"Nay, be thou not rash," whispers a moderating friend to the speaker. "The children of Jacob
are not much given to Gentile sports, which are too often accursed in the sight of the Lord."

"True, but saw you ever one more cool and assured? And what an arm he has!"

"And what horses!" says a third.

"And for that," a fourth one adds, "they say he has all the tricks of the Romans."

A woman completes the eulogium:

"Yes, and he is even handsomer than the Roman."

Thus encouraged, the enthusiast shrieks again, "A hundred shekels on the Jew!"

"Thou fool!" answers an Antiochian, from a bench well forward on the balcony. "Knowest thou
not there are fifty talents laid against him, six to one, on Messala? Put up thy shekels, lest
Abraham rise and smite thee."

"Ha, ha! thou ass of Antioch! Cease thy bray. Knowest thou not it was Messala betting on himself?"

Such the reply.

And so ran the controversy, not always good-natured.

When at length the march was ended and the Porta Pompae received back the procession, Ben-Hur
knew he had his prayer.

The eyes of the East were upon his contest with Messala.

CHAPTER XIII

About three o'clock, speaking in modern style, the program was concluded except the chariot-race.
The editor, wisely considerate of the comfort of the people, chose that time for a recess.
At once the vomitoria were thrown open, and all who could hastened to the portico outside where
the restaurateurs had their quarters. Those who remained yawned, talked, gossiped, consulted
their tablets, and, all distinctions else forgotten, merged into but two classes--the winners,
who were happy, and the losers, who were grum and captious.

Now, however, a third class of spectators, composed of citizens who desired only to witness
the chariot-race, availed themselves of the recess to come in and take their reserved seats;
by so doing they thought to attract the least attention and give the least offence. Among these
were Simonides and his party, whose places were in the vicinity of the main entrance on the
north side, opposite the consul.

As the four stout servants carried the merchant in his chair up the aisle, curiosity was much
excited. Presently some one called his name. Those about caught it and passed it on along the
benches to the west; and there was hurried climbing on seats to get sight of the man about
whom common report had coined and put in circulation a romance so mixed of good fortune and
bad that the like had never been known or heard of before.

Ilderim was also recognized and warmly greeted; but nobody knew Balthasar or the two women
who followed him closely veiled.

The people made way for the party respectfully, and the ushers seated them in easy speaking
distance of each other down by the balustrade overlooking the arena. In providence of comfort,
they sat upon cushions and had stools for footrests.

The women were Iras and Esther.

Upon being seated, the latter cast a frightened look over the Circus, and drew the veil closer
about her face; while the Egyptian, letting her veil fall upon her shoulders, gave herself
to view, and gazed at the scene with the seeming unconsciousness of being stared at, which,
in a woman, is usually the result of long social habitude.

The new-comers generally were yet making their first examination of the great spectacle, beginning
with the consul and his attendants, when some workmen ran in and commenced to stretch a chalked
rope across the arena from balcony to balcony in front of the pillars of the first goal.

About the same time, also, six men came in through the Porta Pompae and took post, one in front
of each occupied stall; whereat there was a prolonged hum of voices in every quarter.

"See, see! The green goes to number four on the right; the Athenian is there."

"And Messala--yes, he is in number two."

"The Corinthian--"

"Watch the white! See, he crosses over, he stops; number one it is--number one on the left."

"No, the black stops there, and the white at number two."

"So it is."

These gate-keepers, it should be understood, were dressed in tunics colored like those of the
competing charioteers; so, when they took their stations, everybody knew the particular stall
in which his favorite was that moment waiting.

"Did you ever see Messala?" the Egyptian asked Esther.

The Jewess shuddered as she answered no. If not her father's enemy, the Roman was Ben-Hur's.

"He is beautiful as Apollo."

As Iras spoke, her large eyes brightened and she shook her jeweled fan. Esther looked at her
with the thought, "Is he, then, so much handsomer than Ben-Hur?" Next moment she heard Ilderim
say to her father, "Yes, his stall is number two on the left of the Porta Pompae;" and, thinking
it was of Ben-Hur he spoke, her eyes turned that way. Taking but the briefest glance at the
wattled face of the gate, she drew the veil close and muttered a little prayer.

Presently Sanballat came to the party.

"I am just from the stalls, O sheik," he said, bowing gravely to Ilderim, who began combing
his beard, while his eyes glittered with eager inquiry. "The horses are in perfect condition."

Ilderim replied simply, "If they are beaten, I pray it be by some other than Messala."

Turning then to Simonides, Sanballat drew out a tablet, saying, "I bring you also something
of interest. I reported, you will remember, the wager concluded with Messala last night, and
stated that I left another which, if taken, was to be delivered to me in writing to-day before
the race began. Here it is."

Simonides took the tablet and read the memorandum carefully.

"Yes," he said, "their emissary came to ask me if you had so much money with me. Keep the tablet
close. If you lose, you know where to come; if you win"--his face knit hard--"if you win--ah,
friend, see to it! See the signers escape not; hold them to the last shekel. That is what they
would with us."

"Trust me," replied the purveyor.

"Will you not sit with us?" asked Simonides.

"You are very good," the other returned; "but if I leave the consul, young Rome yonder will
boil over. Peace to you; peace to all."

At length the recess came to an end.

The trumpeters blew a call at which the absentees rushed back to their places. At the same
time, some attendants appeared in the arena, and, climbing upon the division wall, went to
an entablature near the second goal at the west end, and placed upon it seven wooden balls;
then returning to the first goal, upon an entablature there they set up seven other pieces
of wood hewn to represent dolphins.

"What shall they do with the balls and fishes, O sheik?" asked Balthasar.

"Hast thou never attended a race?"

"Never before; and hardly know I why I am here."

"Well, they are to keep the count. At the end of each round run thou shalt see one ball and
one fish taken down."

The preparations were now complete, and presently a trumpeter in gaudy uniform arose by the
editor, ready to blow the signal of commencement promptly at his order. Straightway the stir
of the people and the hum of their conversation died away. Every face near-by, and every face
in the lessening perspective, turned to the east, as all eyes settled upon the gates of the
six stalls which shut in the competitors.

The unusual flush upon his face gave proof that even Simonides had caught the universal excitement.
Ilderim pulled his beard fast and furious.

"Look now for the Roman," said the fair Egyptian to Esther, who did not hear her, for, with
close-drawn veil and beating heart, she sat watching for Ben-Hur.

The structure containing the stalls, it should be observed, was in form of the segment of a
circle, retired on the right so that its central point was projected forward, and midway the
course, on the starting side of the first goal. Every stall, consequently, was equally distant
from the starting-line or chalked rope above mentioned.

The trumpet sounded short and sharp; whereupon the starters, one for each chariot, leaped down
from behind the pillars of the goal, ready to give assistance if any of the fours proved unmanageable.

Again the trumpet blew, and simultaneously the gate-keepers threw the stalls open.

First appeared the mounted attendants of the charioteers, five in all, Ben-Hur having rejected
the service. The chalked line was lowered to let them pass, then raised again. They were beautifully
mounted, yet scarcely observed as they rode forward; for all the time the trampling of eager
horses, and the voices of drivers scarcely less eager, were heard behind in the stalls, so
that one might not look away an instant from the gaping doors.

The chalked line up again, the gate-keepers called their men; instantly the ushers on the balcony
waved their hands, and shouted with all their strength, "Down! down!"

As well have whistled to stay a storm.

Forth from each stall, like missiles in a volley from so many great guns, rushed the six fours;
and up the vast assemblage arose, electrified and irrepressible, and, leaping upon the benches,
filled the Circus and the air above it with yells and screams. This was the time for which
they had so patiently waited!--this the moment of supreme interest treasured up in talk and
dreams since the proclamation of the games!

"He is come--there--look!" cried Iras, pointing to Messala.

"I see him," answered Esther, looking at Ben-Hur.

The veil was withdrawn. For an instant the little Jewess was brave. An idea of the joy there
is in doing an heroic deed under the eyes of a multitude came to her, and she understood ever
after how, at such times, the souls of men, in the frenzy of performance, laugh at death or
forget it utterly.

The competitors were now under view from nearly every part of the Circus, yet the race was
not begun; they had first to make the chalked line successfully.

The line was stretched for the purpose of equalizing the start. If it were dashed upon, discomfiture
of man and horses might be apprehended; on the other hand, to approach it timidly was to incur
the hazard of being thrown behind in the beginning of the race; and that was certain forfeit
of the great advantage always striven for--the position next the division wall on the inner
line of the course.

This trial, its perils and consequences, the spectators knew thoroughly; and if the opinion
of old Nestor, uttered that time he handed the reins to his son, were true--

  "It is not strength, but art, obtained the prize,
  And to be swift is less than to be wise"--

all on the benches might well look for warning of the winner to be now given, justifying the
interest with which they breathlessly watched for the result.

The arena swam in a dazzle of light; yet each driver looked first thing for the rope, then
for the coveted inner line. So, all six aiming at the same point and speeding furiously, a
collision seemed inevitable; nor that merely. What if the editor, at the last moment, dissatisfied
with the start, should withhold the signal to drop the rope? Or if he should not give it in time?

The crossing was about two hundred and fifty feet in width. Quick the eye, steady the hand,
unerring the judgment required. If now one look away! or his mind wander! or a rein slip! And
what attraction in the ensemble of the thousands over the spreading balcony! Calculating upon
the natural impulse to give one glance--just one--in sooth of curiosity or vanity, malice might
be there with an artifice; while friendship and love, did they serve the same result, might
be as deadly as malice.

The divine last touch in perfecting the beautiful is animation. Can we accept the saying, then
these latter days, so tame in pastime and dull in sports, have scarcely anything to compare
to the spectacle offered by the six contestants. Let the reader try to fancy it; let him first
look down upon the arena, and see it glistening in its frame of dull-gray granite walls; let
him then, in this perfect field, see the chariots, light of wheel, very graceful, and ornate
as paint and burnishing can make them--Messala's rich with ivory and gold; let him see the
drivers, erect and statuesque, undisturbed by the motion of the cars, their limbs naked, and
fresh and ruddy with the healthful polish of the baths--in their right hands goads, suggestive
of torture dreadful to the thought--in their left hands, held in careful separation, and high,
that they may not interfere with view of the steeds, the reins passing taut from the fore ends
of the carriage-poles; let him see the fours, chosen for beauty as well as speed; let him see
them in magnificent action, their masters not more conscious of the situation and all that
is asked and hoped from them--their heads tossing, nostrils in play, now distent, now contracted--limbs
too dainty for the sand which they touch but to spurn--limbs slender, yet with impact crushing
as hammers--every muscle of the rounded bodies instinct with glorious life, swelling, diminishing,
justifying the world in taking from them its ultimate measure of force; finally, along with
chariots, drivers, horses, let the reader see the accompanying shadows fly; and, with such
distinctness as the picture comes, he may share the satisfaction and deeper pleasure of those
to whom it was a thrilling fact, not a feeble fancy. Every age has its plenty of sorrows; Heaven
help where there are no pleasures!

The competitors having started each on the shortest line for the position next the wall, yielding
would be like giving up the race; and who dared yield? It is not in common nature to change
a purpose in mid-career; and the cries of encouragement from the balcony were indistinguishable
and indescribable: a roar which had the same effect upon all the drivers.

The fours neared the rope together. Then the trumpeter by the editor's side blew a signal vigorously.
Twenty feet away it was not heard. Seeing the action, however, the judges dropped the rope,
and not an instant too soon, for the hoof of one of Messala's horses struck it as it fell.
Nothing daunted, the Roman shook out his long lash, loosed the reins, leaned forward, and,
with a triumphant shout, took the wall.

"Jove with us! Jove with us!" yelled all the Roman faction, in a frenzy of delight.

As Messala turned in, the bronze lion's head at the end of his axle caught the fore-leg of
the Athenian's right-hand trace-mate, flinging the brute over against its yoke-fellow. Both
staggered, struggled, and lost their headway. The ushers had their will at least in part. The
thousands held their breath with horror; only up where the consul sat was there shouting.

"Jove with us!" screamed Drusus, frantically.

"He wins! Jove with us!" answered his associates, seeing Messala speed on.

Tablet in hand, Sanballat turned to them; a crash from the course below stopped his speech,
and he could not but look that way.

Messala having passed, the Corinthian was the only contestant on the Athenian's right, and
to that side the latter tried to turn his broken four; and then; as ill-fortune would have
it, the wheel of the Byzantine, who was next on the left, struck the tail-piece of his chariot,
knocking his feet from under him. There was a crash, a scream of rage and fear, and the unfortunate
Cleanthes fell under the hoofs of his own steeds: a terrible sight, against which Esther covered
her eyes.

On swept the Corinthian, on the Byzantine, on the Sidonian.

Sanballat looked for Ben-Hur, and turned again to Drusus and his coterie.

"A hundred sestertii on the Jew!" he cried.

"Taken!" answered Drusus.

"Another hundred on the Jew!" shouted Sanballat.

Nobody appeared to hear him. He called again; the situation below was too absorbing, and they
were too busy shouting, "Messala! Messala! Jove with us!"

When the Jewess ventured to look again, a party of workmen were removing the horses and broken
car; another party were taking off the man himself; and every bench upon which there was a
Greek was vocal with execrations and prayers for vengeance. Suddenly she dropped her hands;
Ben-Hur, unhurt, was to the front, coursing freely forward along with the Roman! Behind them,
in a group, followed the Sidonian, the Corinthian, and the Byzantine.

The race was on; the souls of the racers were in it; over them bent the myriads.

CHAPTER XIV

When the dash for position began, Ben-Hur, as we have seen, was on the extreme left of the
six. For a moment, like the others, he was half blinded by the light in the arena; yet he managed
to catch sight of his antagonists and divine their purpose. At Messala, who was more than an
antagonist to him, he gave one searching look. The air of passionless hauteur characteristic
of the fine patrician face was there as of old, and so was the Italian beauty, which the helmet
rather increased; but more--it may have been a jealous fancy, or the effect of the brassy shadow
in which the features were at the moment cast, still the Israelite thought he saw the soul
of the man as through a glass, darkly: cruel, cunning, desperate; not so excited as determined--a
soul in a tension of watchfulness and fierce resolve.

In a time not longer than was required to turn to his four again, Ben-Hur felt his own resolution
harden to a like temper. At whatever cost, at all hazards, he would humble this enemy! Prize,
friends, wagers, honor--everything that can be thought of as a possible interest in the race
was lost in the one deliberate purpose. Regard for life even should not hold him back. Yet
there was no passion, on his part; no blinding rush of heated blood from heart to brain, and
back again; no impulse to fling himself upon Fortune: he did not believe in Fortune; far otherwise.
He had his plan, and, confiding in himself, he settled to the task never more observant, never
more capable. The air about him seemed aglow with a renewed and perfect transparency.

When not half-way across the arena, he saw that Messala's rush would, if there was no collision,
and the rope fell, give him the wall; that the rope would fall, he ceased as soon to doubt;
and, further, it came to him, a sudden flash-like insight, that Messala knew it was to be let
drop at the last moment (prearrangement with the editor could safely reach that point in the
contest); and it suggested, what more Roman-like than for the official to lend himself to a
countryman who, besides being so popular, had also so much at stake? There could be no other
accounting for the confidence with which Messala pushed his four forward the instant his competitors
were prudentially checking their fours in front of the obstruction--no other except madness.

It is one thing to see a necessity and another to act upon it. Ben-Hur yielded the wall for
the time.

The rope fell, and all the fours but his sprang into the course under urgency of voice and
lash. He drew head to the right, and, with all the speed of his Arabs, darted across the trails
of his opponents, the angle of movement being such as to lose the least time and gain the greatest
possible advance. So, while the spectators were shivering at the Athenian's mishap, and the
Sidonian, Byzantine, and Corinthian were striving, with such skill as they possessed, to avoid
involvement in the ruin, Ben-Hur swept around and took the course neck and neck with Messala,
though on the outside. The marvellous skill shown in making the change thus from the extreme
left across to the right without appreciable loss did not fail the sharp eyes upon the benches;
the Circus seemed to rock and rock again with prolonged applause. Then Esther clasped her hands
in glad surprise; then Sanballat, smiling, offered his hundred sestertii a second time without
a taker; and then the Romans began to doubt, thinking Messala might have found an equal, if
not a master, and that in an Israelite!

And now, racing together side by side, a narrow interval between them, the two neared the second
goal.

The pedestal of the three pillars there, viewed from the west, was a stone wall in the form
of a half-circle, around which the course and opposite balcony were bent in exact parallelism.
Making this turn was considered in all respects the most telling test of a charioteer; it was,
in fact, the very feat in which Oraetes failed. As an involuntary admission of interest on
the part of the spectators, a hush fell over all the Circus, so that for the first time in
the race the rattle and clang of the cars plunging after the tugging steeds were distinctly
heard. Then, it would seem, Messala observed Ben-Hur, and recognized him; and at once the audacity
of the man flamed out in an astonishing manner.

"Down Eros, up Mars!" he shouted, whirling his lash with practised hand--"Down Eros, up Mars!"
he repeated, and caught the well-doing Arabs of Ben-Hur a cut the like of which they had never
known.

The blow was seen in every quarter, and the amazement was universal. The silence deepened;
up on the benches behind the consul the boldest held his breath, waiting for the outcome. Only
a moment thus: then, involuntarily, down from the balcony, as thunder falls, burst the indignant
cry of the people.

The four sprang forward affrighted. No hand had ever been laid upon them except in love; they
had been nurtured ever so tenderly; and as they grew, their confidence in man became a lesson
to men beautiful to see. What should such dainty natures do under such indignity but leap as
from death?

Forward they sprang as with one impulse, and forward leaped the car. Past question, every experience
is serviceable to us. Where got Ben-Hur the large hand and mighty grip which helped him now
so well? Where but from the oar with which so long he fought the sea? And what was this spring
of the floor under his feet to the dizzy eccentric lurch with which in the old time the trembling
ship yielded to the beat of staggering billows, drunk with their power? So he kept his place,
and gave the four free rein, and called to them in soothing voice, trying merely to guide them
round the dangerous turn; and before the fever of the people began to abate, he had back the
mastery. Nor that only: on approaching the first goal, he was again side by side with Messala,
bearing with him the sympathy and admiration of every one not a Roman. So clearly was the feeling
shown, so vigorous its manifestation, that Messala, with all his boldness, felt it unsafe to
trifle further.

As the cars whirled round the goal, Esther caught sight of Ben-Hur's face--a little pale, a
little higher raised, otherwise calm, even placid.

Immediately a man climbed on the entablature at the west end of the division wall, and took
down one of the conical wooden balls. A dolphin on the east entablature was taken down at the
same time.

In like manner, the second ball and second dolphin disappeared.

And then the third ball and third dolphin.

Three rounds concluded: still Messala held the inside position; still Ben-Hur moved with him
side by side; still the other competitors followed as before. The contest began to have the
appearance of one of the double races which became so popular in Rome during the later Caesarean
period--Messala and Ben-Hur in the first, the Corinthian, Sidonian, and Byzantine in the second.
Meantime the ushers succeeded in returning the multitude to their seats, though the clamor
continued to run the rounds, keeping, as it were, even pace with the rivals in the course below.

In the fifth round the Sidonian succeeded in getting a place outside Ben-Hur, but lost it directly.

The sixth round was entered upon without change of relative position.

Gradually the speed had been quickened--gradually the blood of the competitors warmed with
the work. Men and beasts seemed to know alike that the final crisis was near, bringing the
time for the winner to assert himself.

The interest which from the beginning had centred chiefly in the struggle between the Roman
and the Jew, with an intense and general sympathy for the latter, was fast changing to anxiety
on his account. On all the benches the spectators bent forward motionless, except as their
faces turned following the contestants. Ilderim quitted combing his beard, and Esther forgot
her fears.

"A hundred sestertii on the Jew!" cried Sanballat to the Romans under the consul's awning.

There was no reply.

"A talent--or five talents, or ten; choose ye!"

He shook his tablets at them defiantly.

"I will take thy sestertii," answered a Roman youth, preparing to write.

"Do not so," interposed a friend.

"Why?"

"Messala hath reached his utmost speed. See him lean over his chariot rim, the reins loose
as flying ribbons. Look then at the Jew."

The first one looked.

"By Hercules!" he replied, his countenance falling. "The dog throws all his weight on the bits.
I see, I see! If the gods help not our friend, he will be run away with by the Israelite. No,
not yet. Look! Jove with us, Jove with us!"

The cry, swelled by every Latin tongue, shook the velaria over the consul's head.

If it were true that Messala had attained his utmost speed, the effort was with effect; slowly
but certainly he was beginning to forge ahead. His horses were running with their heads low
down; from the balcony their bodies appeared actually to skim the earth; their nostrils showed
blood red in expansion; their eyes seemed straining in their sockets. Certainly the good steeds
were doing their best! How long could they keep the pace? It was but the commencement of the
sixth round. On they dashed. As they neared the second goal, Ben-Hur turned in behind the Roman's
car.

The joy of the Messala faction reached its bound: they screamed and howled, and tossed their
colors; and Sanballat filled his tablets with wagers of their tendering.

Malluch, in the lower gallery over the Gate of Triumph, found it hard to keep his cheer. He
had cherished the vague hint dropped to him by Ben-Hur of something to happen in the turning
of the western pillars. It was the fifth round, yet the something had not come; and he had
said to himself, the sixth will bring it; but, lo! Ben-Hur was hardly holding a place at the
tail of his enemy's car.

Over in the east end, Simonides' party held their peace. The merchant's head was bent low.
Ilderim tugged at his beard, and dropped his brows till there was nothing of his eyes but an
occasional sparkle of light. Esther scarcely breathed. Iras alone appeared glad.

Thus to the first goal, and round it. Messala, fearful of losing his place, hugged the stony
wall with perilous clasp; a foot to the left, and he had been dashed to pieces; yet, when the
turn was finished, no man, looking at the wheel-tracks of the two cars, could have said, here
went Messala, there the Jew. They left but one trace behind them.

As they whirled by, Esther saw Ben-Hur's face again, and it was whiter than before.

Simonides, shrewder than Esther, said to Ilderim, the moment the rivals turned into the course,
"I am no judge, good sheik, if Ben-Hur be not about to execute some design. His face hath that
look."

To which Ilderim answered, "Saw you how clean they were and fresh? By the splendor of God,
friend, they have not been running! But now watch!"

One ball and one dolphin remained on the entablatures; and all the people drew a long breath,
for the beginning of the end was at hand.

First, the Sidonian gave the scourge to his four, and, smarting with fear and pain, they dashed
desperately forward, promising for a brief time to go to the front. The effort ended in promise.
Next, the Byzantine and the Corinthian each made the trial with like result, after which they
were practically out of the race. Thereupon, with a readiness perfectly explicable, all the
factions except the Romans joined hope in Ben-Hur, and openly indulged their feeling.

"Ben-Hur! Ben-Hur!" they shouted, and the blent voices of the many rolled overwhelmingly against
the consular stand.

From the benches above him as he passed, the favor descended in fierce injunctions.

"Speed thee, Jew!"

"Take the wall now!"

"On! loose the Arabs! Give them rein and scourge!"

"Let him not have the turn on thee again. Now or never!"

Over the balustrade they stooped low, stretching their hands imploringly to him.

Either he did not hear, or could not do better, for halfway round the course and he was still
following; at the second goal even still no change!

And now, to make the turn, Messala began to draw in his left-hand steeds, an act which necessarily
slackened their speed. His spirit was high; more than one altar was richer of his vows; the
Roman genius was still president. On the three pillars only six hundred feet away were fame,
increase of fortune, promotions, and a triumph ineffably sweetened by hate, all in store for
him! That moment Malluch, in the gallery, saw Ben-Hur lean forward over his Arabs, and give
them the reins. Out flew the many-folded lash in his hand; over the backs of the startled steeds
it writhed and hissed, and hissed and writhed again and again; and though it fell not, there
were both sting and menace in its quick report; and as the man passed thus from quiet to resistless
action, his face suffused, his eyes gleaming, along the reins he seemed to flash his will;
and instantly not one, but the four as one, answered with a leap that landed them alongside
the Roman's car. Messala, on the perilous edge of the goal, heard, but dared not look to see
what the awakening portended. From the people he received no sign. Above the noises of the
race there was but one voice, and that was Ben-Hur's. In the old Aramaic, as the sheik himself,
he called to the Arabs,

"On, Atair! On, Rigel! What, Antares! dost thou linger now? Good horse--oho, Aldebaran! I hear
them singing in the tents. I hear the children singing and the women--singing of the stars,
of Atair, Antares, Rigel, Aldebaran, victory!--and the song will never end. Well done! Home
to-morrow, under the black tent--home! On, Antares! The tribe is waiting for us, and the master
is waiting! 'Tis done! 'tis done! Ha, ha! We have overthrown the proud. The hand that smote
us is in the dust. Ours the glory! Ha, ha!--steady! The work is done--soho! Rest!"

There had never been anything of the kind more simple; seldom anything so instantaneous.

At the moment chosen for the dash, Messala was moving in a circle round the goal. To pass him,
Ben-Hur had to cross the track, and good strategy required the movement to be in a forward
direction; that is, on a like circle limited to the least possible increase. The thousands
on the benches understood it all: they saw the signal given--the magnificent response; the
four close outside Messala's outer wheel; Ben-Hur's inner wheel behind the other's car--all
this they saw. Then they heard a crash loud enough to send a thrill through the Circus, and,
quicker than thought, out over the course a spray of shining white and yellow flinders flew.
Down on its right side toppled the bed of the Roman's chariot. There was a rebound as of the
axle hitting the hard earth; another and another; then the car went to pieces; and Messala,
entangled in the reins, pitched forward headlong.

To increase the horror of the sight by making death certain, the Sidonian, who had the wall
next behind, could not stop or turn out. Into the wreck full speed he drove; then over the
Roman, and into the latter's four, all mad with fear. Presently, out of the turmoil, the fighting
of horses, the resound of blows, the murky cloud of dust and sand, he crawled, in time to see
the Corinthian and Byzantine go on down the course after Ben-Hur, who had not been an instant
delayed.

The people arose, and leaped upon the benches, and shouted and screamed. Those who looked that
way caught glimpses of Messala, now under the trampling of the fours, now under the abandoned
cars. He was still; they thought him dead; but far the greater number followed Ben-Hur in his
career. They had not seen the cunning touch of the reins by which, turning a little to the
left, he caught Messala's wheel with the iron-shod point of his axle, and crushed it; but they
had seen the transformation of the man, and themselves felt the heat and glow of his spirit,
the heroic resolution, the maddening energy of action with which, by look, word, and gesture,
he so suddenly inspired his Arabs. And such running! It was rather the long leaping of lions
in harness; but for the lumbering chariot, it seemed the four were flying. When the Byzantine
and Corinthian were halfway down the course, Ben-Hur turned the first goal.

AND THE RACE WAS WON!

The consul arose; the people shouted themselves hoarse; the editor came down from his seat,
and crowned the victors.

The fortunate man among the boxers was a low-browed, yellow-haired Saxon, of such brutalized
face as to attract a second look from Ben-Hur, who recognized a teacher with whom he himself
had been a favorite at Rome. From him the young Jew looked up and beheld Simonides and his
party on the balcony. They waved their hands to him. Esther kept her seat; but Iras arose,
and gave him a smile and a wave of her fan--favors not the less intoxicating to him because
we know, O reader, they would have fallen to Messala had he been the victor.

The procession was then formed, and, midst the shouting of the multitude which had had its
will, passed out of the Gate of Triumph.

And the day was over.

CHAPTER XV

Ben-Hur tarried across the river with Ilderim; for at midnight, as previously determined, they
would take the road which the caravan, then thirty hours out, had pursued.

The sheik was happy; his offers of gifts had been royal; but Ben-Hur had refused everything,
insisting that he was satisfied with the humiliation of his enemy. The generous dispute was
long continued.

"Think," the sheik would say, "what thou hast done for me. In every black tent down to the
Akaba and to the ocean, and across to the Euphrates, and beyond to the sea of the Scythians,
the renown of my Mira and her children will go; and they who sing of them will magnify me,
and forget that I am in the wane of life; and all the spears now masterless will come to me,
and my sword-hands multiply past counting. Thou dost not know what it is to have sway of the
desert such as will now be mine. I tell thee it will bring tribute incalculable from commerce,
and immunity from kings. Ay, by the sword of Solomon! doth my messenger seek favor for me of
Caesar, that will he get. Yet nothing--nothing?"

And Ben-Hur would answer,

"Nay, sheik, have I not thy hand and heart? Let thy increase of power and influence inure to
the King who comes. Who shall say it was not allowed thee for him? In the work I am going to,
I may have great need. Saying no now will leave me to ask of thee with better grace hereafter."

In the midst of a controversy of the kind, two messengers arrived--Malluch and one unknown.
The former was admitted first.

The good fellow did not attempt to hide his joy over the event of the day.

"But, coming to that with which I am charged," he said, "the master Simonides sends me to say
that, upon the adjournment of the games, some of the Roman faction made haste to protest against
payment of the money prize."

Ilderim started up, crying, in his shrillest tones,

"By the splendor of God! the East shall decide whether the race was fairly won."

"Nay, good sheik," said Malluch, "the editor has paid the money."

"'Tis well."

"When they said Ben-Hur struck Messala's wheel, the editor laughed, and reminded them of the
blow the Arabs had at the turn of the goal."

"And what of the Athenian?"

"He is dead."

"Dead!" cried Ben-Hur.

"Dead!" echoed Ilderim. "What fortune these Roman monsters have! Messala escaped?"

"Escaped--yes, O sheik, with life; but it shall be a burden to him. The physicians say he will
live, but never walk again."

Ben-Hur looked silently up to heaven. He had a vision of Messala, chairbound like Simonides,
and, like him, going abroad on the shoulders of servants. The good man had abode well; but
what would this one with his pride and ambition?

"Simonides bade me say, further," Malluch continued, "Sanballat is having trouble. Drusus,
and those who signed with him, referred the question of paying the five talents they lost to
the Consul Maxentius, and he has referred it to Caesar. Messala also refused his losses, and
Sanballat, in imitation of Drusus, went to the consul, where the matter is still in advisement.
The better Romans say the protestants shall not be excused; and all the adverse factions join
with them. The city rings with the scandal."

"What says Simonides?" asked Ben-Hur.

"The master laughs, and is well pleased. If the Roman pays, he is ruined; if he refuses to
pay, he is dishonored. The imperial policy will decide the matter. To offend the East would
be a bad beginning with the Parthians; to offend Sheik Ilderim would be to antagonize the Desert,
over which lie all Maxentius's lines of operation. Wherefore Simonides bade me tell you to
have no disquiet; Messala will pay."

Ilderim was at once restored to his good-humor.

"Let us be off now," he said, rubbing his hands. "The business will do well with Simonides.
The glory is ours. I will order the horses."

"Stay," said Malluch. "I left a messenger outside. Will you see him?"

"By the splendor of God! I forgot him."

Malluch retired, and was succeeded by a lad of gentle manners and delicate appearance, who
knelt upon one knee, and said, winningly, "Iras, the daughter of Balthasar, well known to good
Sheik Ilderim, hath intrusted me with a message to the sheik, who, she saith, will do her great
favor so he receive her congratulations on account of the victory of his four."

"The daughter of my friend is kind," said Ilderim, with sparkling eyes. "Do thou give her this
jewel, in sign of the pleasure I have from her message."

He took a ring from his finger as he spoke.

"I will as thou sayest, O sheik," the lad replied, and continued, "The daughter of the Egyptian
charged me further. She prays the good Sheik Ilderim to send word to the youth Ben-Hur that
her father hath taken residence for a time in the palace of Idernee, where she will receive
the youth after the fourth hour to-morrow. And if, with her congratulations, Sheik Ilderim
will accept her gratitude for this other favor done, she will be ever so pleased."

The sheik looked at Ben-Hur, whose face was suffused with pleasure.

"What will you?" he asked.

"By your leave, O sheik, I will see the fair Egyptian."

Ilderim laughed, and said, "Shall not a man enjoy his youth?"

Then Ben-Hur answered the messenger.

"Say to her who sent you that I, Ben-Hur, will see her at the palace of Idernee, wherever that
may be, to-morrow at noon."

The lad arose, and, with silent salute, departed.

At midnight Ilderim took the road, having arranged to leave a horse and a guide for Ben-Hur,
who was to follow him.

CHAPTER XVI

Going next day to fill his appointment with Iras, Ben-Hur turned from the Omphalus, which was
in the heart of the city, into the Colonnade of Herod, and came shortly to the palace of Idernee.

From the street he passed first into a vestibule, on the sides of which were stairways under
cover, leading up to a portico. Winged lions sat by the stairs; in the middle there was a gigantic
ibis spouting water over the floor; the lions, ibis, walls, and floor were reminders of the
Egyptians: everything, even the balustrading of the stairs, was of massive gray stone.

Above the vestibule, and covering the landing of the steps, arose the portico, a pillared grace,
so light, so exquisitely proportioned, it was at that period hardly possible of conception
except by a Greek. Of marble snowy white, its effect was that of a lily dropped carelessly
upon a great bare rock.

Ben-Hur paused in the shade of the portico to admire its tracery and finish, and the purity
of its marble; then he passed on into the palace. Ample folding-doors stood open to receive
him. The passage into which he first entered was high, but somewhat narrow; red tiling formed
the floor, and the walls were tinted to correspond. Yet this plainness was a warning of something
beautiful to come.

He moved on slowly, all his faculties in repose. Presently he would be in the presence of Iras;
she was waiting for him; waiting with song and story and badinage, sparkling, fanciful, capricious--with
smiles which glorified her glance, and glances which lent voluptuous suggestion to her whisper.
She had sent for him the evening of the boat-ride on the lake in the Orchard of Palms; she
had sent for him now; and he was going to her in the beautiful palace of Idernee. He was happy
and dreamful rather than thoughtless.

The passage brought him to a closed door, in front of which he paused; and, as he did so, the
broad leaves began to open of themselves, without creak or sound of lock or latch, or touch
of foot or finger. The singularity was lost in the view that broke upon him.

Standing in the shade of the dull passage, and looking through the doorway, he beheld the atrium
of a Roman house, roomy and rich to a fabulous degree of magnificence.

How large the chamber was cannot be stated, because of the deceit there is in exact proportions;
its depth was vista-like, something never to be said of an equal interior. When he stopped
to make survey, and looked down upon the floor, he was standing upon the breast of a Leda,
represented as caressing a swan; and, looking farther, he saw the whole floor was similarly
laid in mosaic pictures of mythological subjects. And there were stools and chairs, each a
separate design, and a work of art exquisitely composed, and tables much carven, and here and
there couches which were invitations of themselves. The articles of furniture, which stood
out from the walls, were duplicated on the floor distinctly as if they floated unrippled water;
even the panelling of the walls, the figures upon them in painting and bas-relief, and the
fresco of the ceiling were reflected on the floor. The ceiling curved up towards the centre,
where there was an opening through which the sunlight poured without hindrance, and the sky,
ever so blue, seemed in hand-reach; the impluvium under the opening was guarded by bronzed
rails; the gilded pillars supporting the roof at the edges of the opening shone like flame
where the sun struck them, and their reflections beneath seemed to stretch to infinite depth.
And there were candelabra quaint and curious, and statuary and vases; the whole making an interior
that would have befitted well the house on the Palatine Hill which Cicero bought of Crassus,
or that other, yet more famous for extravagance, the Tusculan villa of Scaurus.

Still in his dreamful mood, Ben-Hur sauntered about, charmed by all he beheld, and waiting.
He did not mind a little delay; when Iras was ready, she would come or send a servant. In every
well-regulated Roman house the atrium was the reception chamber for visitors.

Twice, thrice, he made the round. As often he stood under the opening in the roof, and pondered
the sky and its azure depth; then, leaning against a pillar, he studied the distribution of
light and shade, and its effects; here a veil diminishing objects, there a brilliance exaggerating
others; yet nobody came. Time, or rather the passage of time, began at length to impress itself
upon him, and he wondered why Iras stayed so long. Again he traced out the figures upon the
floor, but not with the satisfaction the first inspection gave him. He paused often to listen:
directly impatience blew a little fevered breath upon his spirit; next time it blew stronger
and hotter; and at last he woke to a consciousness of the silence which held the house in thrall,
and the thought of it made him uneasy and distrustful. Still he put the feeling off with a
smile and a promise. "Oh, she is giving the last touch to her eyelids, or she is arranging
a chaplet for me; she will come presently, more beautiful of the delay!" He sat down then to
admire a candelabrum--a bronze plinth on rollers, filigree on the sides and edges; the post
at one end, and on the end opposite it an altar and a female celebrant; the lamp-rests swinging
by delicate chains from the extremities of drooping palm-branches; altogether a wonder in its
way. But the silence would obtrude itself: he listened even as he looked at the pretty object--he
listened, but there was not a sound; the palace was still as a tomb.

There might be a mistake. No, the messenger had come from the Egyptian, and this was the palace
of Idernee. Then he remembered how mysteriously the door had opened so soundlessly, so of itself.
He would see!

He went to the same door. Though he walked ever so lightly the sound of his stepping was loud
and harsh, and he shrank from it. He was getting nervous. The cumbrous Roman lock resisted
his first effort to raise it; and the second--the blood chilled in his cheeks--he wrenched
with all his might: in vain--the door was not even shaken. A sense of danger seized him, and
for a moment he stood irresolute.

Who in Antioch had the motive to do him harm?

Messala!

And this palace of Idernee? He had seen Egypt in the vestibule, Athens in the snowy portico;
but here, in the atrium, was Rome; everything about him betrayed Roman ownership. True, the
site was on the great thoroughfare of the city, a very public place in which to do him violence;
but for that reason it was more accordant with the audacious genius of his enemy. The atrium
underwent a change; with all its elegance and beauty, it was no more than a trap. Apprehension
always paints in black.

The idea irritated Ben-Hur.

There were many doors on the right and left of the atrium, leading, doubtless, to sleeping-chambers;
he tried them, but they were all firmly fastened. Knocking might bring response. Ashamed to
make outcry, he betook himself to a couch, and, lying down, tried to reflect.

All too plainly he was a prisoner; but for what purpose? and by whom?

If the work were Messala's! He sat up, looked about, and smiled defiantly. There were weapons
in every table. But birds had been starved in golden cages; not so would he--the couches would
serve him as battering-rams; and he was strong, and there was such increase of might in rage
and despair!

Messala himself could not come. He would never walk again; he was a cripple like Simonides;
still he could move others. And where were there not others to be moved by him? Ben-Hur arose,
and tried the doors again. Once he called out; the room echoed so that he was startled. With
such calmness as he could assume, he made up his mind to wait a time before attempting to break
a way out.

In such a situation the mind has its ebb and flow of disquiet, with intervals of peace between.
At length--how long, though, he could not have said--he came to the conclusion that the affair
was an accident or mistake. The palace certainly belonged to somebody; it must have care and
keeping: and the keeper would come; the evening or the night would bring him. Patience!

So concluding, he waited.

Half an hour passed--a much longer period to Ben-Hur--when the door which had admitted him
opened and closed noiselessly as before, and without attracting his attention.

The moment of the occurrence he was sitting at the farther end of the room. A footstep startled
him.

"At last she has come!" he thought, with a throb of relief and pleasure, and arose.

The step was heavy, and accompanied with the gride and clang of coarse sandals. The gilded
pillars were between him and the door; he advanced quietly, and leaned against one of them.
Presently he heard voices--the voices of men--one of them rough and guttural. What was said
he could not understand, as the language was not of the East or South of Europe.

After a general survey of the room, the strangers crossed to their left, and were brought into
Ben-Hur's view--two men, one very stout, both tall, and both in short tunics. They had not
the air of masters of the house or domestics. Everything they saw appeared wonderful to them;
everything they stopped to examine they touched. They were vulgarians. The atrium seemed profaned
by their presence. At the same time, their leisurely manner and the assurance with which they
proceeded pointed to some right or business; if business, with whom?

With much jargon they sauntered this way and that, all the time gradually approaching the pillar
by which Ben-Hur was standing. Off a little way, where a slanted gleam of the sun fell with
a glare upon the mosaic of the floor, there was a statue which attracted their notice. In examining
it, they stopped in the light.

The mystery surrounding his own presence in the palace tended, as we have seen, to make Ben-Hur
nervous; so now, when in the tall stout stranger he recognized the Northman whom he had known
in Rome, and seen crowned only the day before in the Circus as the winning pugilist; when he
saw the man's face, scarred with the wounds of many battles, and imbruted by ferocious passions;
when he surveyed the fellow's naked limbs, very marvels of exercise and training, and his shoulders
of Herculean breadth, a thought of personal danger started a chill along every vein. A sure
instinct warned him that the opportunity for murder was too perfect to have come by chance;
and here now were the myrmidons, and their business was with him. He turned an anxious eye
upon the Northman's comrade--young, black-eyed, black-haired, and altogether Jewish in appearance;
he observed, also, that both the men were in costume exactly such as professionals of their
class were in the habit of wearing in the arena. Putting the several circumstances together,
Ben-Hur could not be longer in doubt: he had been lured into the palace with design. Out of
reach of aid, in this splendid privacy, he was to die!

At a loss what to do, he gazed from man to man, while there was enacted within him that miracle
of mind by which life is passed before us in awful detail, to be looked at by ourselves as
if it were another's; and from the evolvement, from a hidden depth, cast up, as it were, by
a hidden hand, he was given to see that he had entered upon a new life, different from the
old one in this: whereas, in that, he had been the victim of violences done to him, henceforth
he was to be the aggressor. Only yesterday he had found his first victim! To the purely Christian
nature the presentation would have brought the weakness of remorse. Not so with Ben-Hur; his
spirit had its emotions from the teachings of the first lawgiver, not the last and greatest
one. He had dealt punishment, not wrong, to Messala. By permission of the Lord, he had triumphed;
and he derived faith from the circumstance--faith the source of all rational strength, especially
strength in peril.

Nor did the influence stop there. The new life was made appear to him a mission just begun,
and holy as the King to come was holy, and certain as the coming of the King was certain--a
mission in which force was lawful if only because it was unavoidable. Should he, on the very
threshold of such an errand, be afraid?

He undid the sash around his waist, and, baring his head and casting off his white Jewish gown,
stood forth in an undertunic not unlike those of the enemy, and was ready, body and mind. Folding
his arms, he placed his back against the pillar, and calmly waited.

The examination of the statue was brief. Directly the Northman turned, and said something in
the unknown tongue; then both looked at Ben-Hur. A few more words, and they advanced towards him.

"Who are you?" he asked, in Latin.

The Northman fetched a smile which did not relieve his face of its brutalism, and answered,

"Barbarians."

"This is the palace of Idernee. Whom seek you? Stand and answer."

The words were spoken with earnestness. The strangers stopped; and in his turn the Northman
asked, "Who are you?"

"A Roman."

The giant laid his head back upon his shoulders.

"Ha, ha, ha! I have heard how a god once came from a cow licking a salted stone; but not even
a god can make a Roman of a Jew."

The laugh over, he spoke to his companion again, and they moved nearer.

"Hold!" said Ben-Hur, quitting the pillar. "One word."

They stopped again.

"A word!" replied the Saxon, folding his immense arms across his breast, and relaxing the menace
beginning to blacken his face. "A word! Speak."

"You are Thord the Northman."

The giant opened his blue eyes.

"You were lanista in Rome."

Thord nodded.

"I was your scholar."

"No," said Thord, shaking his head. "By the beard of Irmin, I had never a Jew to make a fighting-man
of."

"But I will prove my saying."

"How?"

"You came here to kill me."

"That is true."

"Then let this man fight me singly, and I will make the proof on his body."

A gleam of humor shone in the Northman's face. He spoke to his companion, who made answer;
then he replied with the naivete of a diverted child,

"Wait till I say begin."

By repeated touches of his foot, he pushed a couch out on the floor, and proceeded leisurely
to stretch his burly form upon it; when perfectly at ease, he said, simply, "Now begin."

Without ado, Ben-Hur walked to his antagonist.

"Defend thyself," he said.

The man, nothing loath, put up his hands.

As the two thus confronted each other in approved position, there was no discernible inequality
between them; on the contrary, they were as like as brothers. To the stranger's confident smile,
Ben-Hur opposed an earnestness which, had his skill been known, would have been accepted fair
warning of danger. Both knew the combat was to be mortal.

Ben-Hur feinted with his right hand. The stranger warded, slightly advancing his left arm.
Ere he could return to guard, Ben-Hur caught him by the wrist in a grip which years at the
oar had made terrible as a vise. The surprise was complete, and no time given. To throw himself
forward; to push the arm across the man's throat and over his right shoulder, and turn him
left side front; to strike surely with the ready left hand; to strike the bare neck under the
ear--were but petty divisions of the same act. No need of a second blow. The myrmidon fell
heavily, and without a cry, and lay still.

Ben-Hur turned to Thord.

"Ha! What! By the beard of Irmin!" the latter cried, in astonishment, rising to a sitting posture.
Then he laughed.

"Ha, ha, ha! I could not have done it better myself."

He viewed Ben-Hur coolly from head to foot, and, rising, faced him with undisguised admiration.

"It was my trick--the trick I have practised for ten years in the schools of Rome. You are
not a Jew. Who are you?"

"You knew Arrius the duumvir."

"Quintus Arrius? Yes, he was my patron."

"He had a son."

"Yes," said Thord, his battered features lighting dully, "I knew the boy; he would have made
a king gladiator. Caesar offered him his patronage. I taught him the very trick you played
on this one here--a trick impossible except to a hand and arm like mine. It has won me many
a crown."

"I am that son of Arrius."

Thord drew nearer, and viewed him carefully; then his eyes brightened with genuine pleasure,
and, laughing, he held out his hand.

"Ha, ha, ha! He told me I would find a Jew here--a Jew--a dog of a Jew--killing whom was serving
the gods."

"Who told you so?" asked Ben-Hur, taking the hand.

"He--Messala--ha, ha, ha!"

"When, Thord?"

"Last night."

"I thought he was hurt."

"He will never walk again. On his bed he told me between groans."

A very vivid portrayal of hate in a few words; and Ben-Hur saw that the Roman, if he lived,
would still be capable and dangerous, and follow him unrelentingly. Revenge remained to sweeten
the ruined life; therefore the clinging to fortune lost in the wager with Sanballat. Ben-Hur
ran the ground over, with a distinct foresight of the many ways in which it would be possible
for his enemy to interfere with him in the work he had undertaken for the King who was coming.
Why not he resort to the Roman's methods? The man hired to kill him could be hired to strike
back. It was in his power to offer higher wages. The temptation was strong; and, half yielding,
he chanced to look down at his late antagonist lying still, with white upturned face, so like
himself. A light came to him, and he asked, "Thord, what was Messala to give you for killing me?"

"A thousand sestertii."

"You shall have them yet; and so you do now what I tell you, I will add three thousand more
to the sum."

The giant reflected aloud,

"I won five thousand yesterday; from the Roman one--six. Give me four, good Arrius--four more--and
I will stand firm for you, though old Thor, my namesake, strike me with his hammer. Make it
four, and I will kill the lying patrician, if you say so. I have only to cover his mouth with
my hand--thus."

He illustrated the process by clapping his hand over his own mouth.

"I see," said Ben-Hur; "ten thousand sestertii is a fortune. It will enable you to return to
Rome, and open a wine-shop near the Great Circus, and live as becomes the first of the lanistae."

The very scars on the giant's face glowed afresh with the pleasure the picture gave him.

"I will make it four thousand," Ben-Hur continued; "and in what you shall do for the money
there will be no blood on your hands, Thord. Hear me now. Did not your friend here look like me?"

"I would have said he was an apple from the same tree."

"Well, if I put on his tunic, and dress him in these clothes of mine, and you and I go away
together, leaving him here, can you not get your sestertii from Messala all the same? You have
only to make him believe it me that is dead."

Thord laughed till the tears ran into his mouth.

"Ha, ha, ha! Ten thousand sestertii were never won so easily. And a wine-shop by the Great
Circus!--all for a lie without blood in it! Ha, ha, ha! Give me thy hand, O son of Arrius.
Get on now, and--ha, ha, ha!--if ever you come to Rome, fail not to ask for the wine-shop of
Thord the Northman. By the beard of Irmin, I will give you the best, though I borrow it from
Caesar!"

They shook hands again; after which the exchange of clothes was effected. It was arranged then
that a messenger should go at night to Thord's lodging-place with the four thousand sestertii.
When they were done, the giant knocked at the front door; it opened to him; and, passing out
of the atrium, he led Ben-Hur into a room adjoining, where the latter completed his attire
from the coarse garments of the dead pugilist. They separated directly in the Omphalus.

"Fail not, O son of Arrius, fail not the wine-shop near the Great Circus! Ha, ha, ha! By the
beard of Irmin, there was never fortune gained so cheap. The gods keep you!"

Upon leaving the atrium, Ben-Hur gave a last look at the myrmidon as he lay in the Jewish vestments,
and was satisfied. The likeness was striking. If Thord kept faith, the cheat was a secret to
endure forever.

* * * * * *

At night, in the house of Simonides, Ben-Hur told the good man all that had taken place in
the palace of Idernee; and it was agreed that, after a few days, public inquiry should be set
afloat for the discovery of the whereabouts of the son of Arrius. Eventually the matter was
to be carried boldly to Maxentius; then, if the mystery came not out, it was concluded that
Messala and Gratus would be at rest and happy, and Ben-Hur free to betake himself to Jerusalem,
to make search for his lost people.

At the leave-taking, Simonides sat in his chair out on the terrace overlooking the river, and
gave his farewell and the peace of the Lord with the impressment of a father. Esther went with
the young man to the head of the steps.

"If I find my mother, Esther, thou shalt go to her at Jerusalem, and be a sister to Tirzah."

And with the words he kissed her.

Was it only a kiss of peace?

He crossed the river next to the late quarters of Ilderim, where he found the Arab who was
to serve him as guide. The horses were brought out.

"This one is thine," said the Arab.

Ben-Hur looked, and, lo! it was Aldebaran, the swiftest and brightest of the sons of Mira,
and, next to Sirius, the beloved of the sheik; and he knew the old man's heart came to him
along with the gift.

The corpse in the atrium was taken up and buried by night; and, as part of Messala's plan,
a courier was sent off to Gratus to make him at rest by the announcement of Ben-Hur's death--this
time past question.

Ere long a wine-shop was opened near the Circus Maximus, with inscription over the door:

THORD THE NORTHMAN.

BOOK SIXTH

  "Is that a Death? and are there two?
  Is Death that woman's mate?
   * * * *
  Her skin was as white as leprosy,
  The Nightmare Life-in-Death was she,
  Who thicks man's blood with cold."

  COLERIDGE.

CHAPTER I

Our story moves forward now thirty days from the night Ben-Hur left Antioch to go out with
Sheik Ilderim into the desert.

A great change has befallen--great at least as respects the fortunes of our hero. VALERIUS
GRATUS HAS BEEN SUCCEEDED BY PONTIUS PILATE!

The removal, it may be remarked, cost Simonides exactly five talents Roman money in hand paid
to Sejanus, who was then in height of power as imperial favorite; the object being to help
Ben-Hur, by lessening his exposure while in and about Jerusalem attempting discovery of his
people. To such pious use the faithful servant put the winnings from Drusus and his associates;
all of whom, having paid their wagers, became at once and naturally the enemies of Messala,
whose repudiation was yet an unsettled question in Rome.

Brief as the time was, already the Jews knew the change of rulers was not for the better.

The cohorts sent to relieve the garrison of Antonia made their entry into the city by night;
next morning the first sight that greeted the people resident in the neighborhood was the walls
of the old Tower decorated with military ensigns, which unfortunately consisted of busts of
the emperor mixed with eagles and globes. A multitude, in passion, marched to Caesarea, where
Pilate was lingering, and implored him to remove the detested images. Five days and nights
they beset his palace gates; at last he appointed a meeting with them in the Circus. When they
were assembled, he encircled them with soldiers; instead of resisting, they offered him their
lives, and conquered. He recalled the images and ensigns to Caesarea, where Gratus, with more
consideration, had kept such abominations housed during the eleven years of his reign.

The worst of men do once in a while vary their wickednesses by good acts; so with Pilate. He
ordered an inspection of all the prisons in Judea, and a return of the names of the persons
in custody, with a statement of the crimes for which they had been committed. Doubtless, the
motive was the one so common with officials just installed--dread of entailed responsibility;
the people, however, in thought of the good which might come of the measure, gave him credit,
and, for a period, were comforted. The revelations were astonishing. Hundreds of persons were
released against whom there were no accusations; many others came to light who had long been
accounted dead; yet more amazing, there was opening of dungeons not merely unknown at the time
by the people, but actually forgotten by the prison authorities. With one instance of the latter
kind we have now to deal; and, strange to say, it occurred in Jerusalem.

The Tower of Antonia, which will be remembered as occupying two thirds of the sacred area on
Mount Moriah, was originally a castle built by the Macedonians. Afterwards, John Hyrcanus erected
the castle into a fortress for the defence of the Temple, and in his day it was considered
impregnable to assault; but when Herod came with his bolder genius, he strengthened its walls
and extended them, leaving a vast pile which included every appurtenance necessary for the
stronghold he intended it to be forever; such as offices, barracks, armories, magazines, cisterns,
and last, though not least, prisons of all grades. He levelled the solid rock, and tapped it
with deep excavations, and built over them; connecting the whole great mass with the Temple
by a beautiful colonnade, from the roof of which one could look down over the courts of the
sacred structure. In such condition the Tower fell at last out of his hands into those of the
Romans, who were quick to see its strength and advantages, and convert it to uses becoming
such masters. All through the administration of Gratus it had been a garrisoned citadel and
underground prison terrible to revolutionists. Woe when the cohorts poured from its gates to
suppress disorder! Woe not less when a Jew passed the same gates going in under arrest!

With this explanation, we hasten to our story.

* * * * * *

The order of the new procurator requiring a report of the persons in custody was received at
the Tower of Antonia, and promptly executed; and two days have gone since the last unfortunate
was brought up for examination. The tabulated statement, ready for forwarding, lies on the
table of the tribune in command; in five minutes more it will be on the way to Pilate, sojourning
in the palace up on Mount Zion.

The tribune's office is spacious and cool, and furnished in a style suitable to the dignity
of the commandant of a post in every respect so important. Looking in upon him about the seventh
hour of the day, the officer appears weary and impatient; when the report is despatched, he
will to the roof of the colonnade for air and exercise, and the amusement to be had watching
the Jews over in the courts of the Temple. His subordinates and clerks share his impatience.

In the spell of waiting a man appeared in a doorway leading to an adjoining apartment. He rattled
a bunch of keys, each heavy as a hammer, and at once attracted the chief's attention.

"Ah, Gesius! come in," the tribune said.

As the new-comer approached the table behind which the chief sat in an easy-chair, everybody
present looked at him, and, observing a certain expression of alarm and mortification on his
face, became silent that they might hear what he had to say.

