"Towards the end of last May, a child of twelve, named Mary Cote, was brought to my school,
with a request that I would prepare her for first communion and confirmation. She was conducted
by her aunt, and walked with difficulty; her eyes appeared in a sad condition. I was informed
that she had been blind since an attack of small-pox five years before, and that during that
period she had endured a martyrdom, especially in winter, when the inflammation increased.
Hoping that the disease was not as inveterate as it appeared, I begged her aunt to take her
to the chapel, and help her to distinguish the altar and tabernacle, that she might the better
understand future instructions on these subject, for I had been told that she had never even
entered a church, her parents living at a considerable distance from the parish church, and
not having a vehicle. Accordingly, she was led to the church, but on her return, I was assured
she had discerned nothing, not even the conspicuous white statue of our Blessed Lady. I then
examined her eyes more closely. I found the lids livid and bluish; close to the lashes, red
and inflamed. In the eye itself, pupil, iris and cornea were alike undistinguishable; all that
could be seen was a mass of red, white and black spots, frightful to behold. Both eyes were
in the same condition. Dr. Morin had declared the case incurable; the parish priest of Gaspe,
and two Trappiste Fathers who happened to pass that way, had expressed the same opinion, the
last observing that only a miracle could restore sight so thoroughly diseased. 'Well,' I said
to the child, 'I know a servant of God who can obtain this favour, if you pray to her very
fervently.' I gave her a little of the water of the tomb, telling her to put a drop of it into
her eyes every day, and to say daily also, three Paters, Aves, and Glorias, with the invocation
'Venerable Mother of the Incarnation, obtain my cure!' The first days of the Novena, her sufferings
increased so much that she could scarcely support them. I told her not to be discouraged in
consequence, for that this increase of pain proved the intervention of the Venerable Mother,
and should only stimulate her to redouble her prayers, which she did. On the third or fourth
day, she was taken to Mass by her aunt, and although in great pain, prayed with renewed ardour,
asking the Mother of the Incarnation to let her see at least the statue of our Blessed Lady.
Towards the end of Mass, she felt suddenly inspired to raise her eyes, and saw something white:
it was the statue. As she afterwards said, the longer she looked at it, the clearer her vision
became. In an ecstasy of delight and amazement, she began to describe to her aunt every thing
she saw round the statue and on the altar. On leaving the church, she was subjected to various
tests, which only resulted in rendering the miracle more manifest. Her eyes were free from
pain and looked perfectly clear, except for a slight discoloration of the left, which however
did not interfere with the vision, and soon disappeared. This event occurred on the 8th or
9th of June." On the 23rd of the following August, Miss Bilodeau gave the above details. Dr.
Morin, to whom she presented the child, at once recognised his former patient, but could not
comprehend the wonderful change visible in her. After a close examination, he declared that
only a miracle could have wrought it. The next day he gave the following testimony: "I the
undersigned, can certify on oath, that five years ago, I examined Mary Cote's eyes, and found
that the small-pox had produced opacity of the cornea of both, or the disease called leucoma.
I pronounced the case incurable, and refused in consequence to prescribe medical treatment.
I certify that I re-examined the same little girl on the 4th of September, 1867, and that I
cannot explain the cure of her eyes by natural causes. "CHARLES MORIN, M.D."

Mary Cote and her mother confirmed the above testimony at a later period.

       *       *       *       *       *

CURE of MARGARET FOLEY, affected for four years and a half with deafness, 30th of April, 1868.

Margaret Foley was in her fourteenth year, when in September 1867, she was presented at the
Ursuline day school to receive instruction for first communion. She had already been sent to
three other schools for the same purpose, but her deafness had in each case proved an insuperable
obstacle to the success of her teachers. It soon became apparent to her new instructresses,
that the present trial must end like the preceding in total failure, therefore they recommended
Mrs. Foley to withdraw her daughter.

When the immediate preparation for first communion was about to commence just before the Lent
of 1868, some of the pupils mentioned Margaret Foley, and in the hope that her hearing might
have somewhat improved in the interval, her mistresses sent for her, but unfortunately, they
found no change in her state. Before the loss of her hearing, she had learned to read imperfectly,
consequently she knew something of the text of her catechism, but nothing more. When the period
of first communion drew near, one of her mistresses, not knowing what to do, proposed a Novena
to the Mother of the Incarnation. Just nine days were to elapse before that of the first Communion,
which by a happy coincidence occurred this year on the 30th of April, the anniversary of the
death of the saintly Mother. Some of the water of the tomb was given to the little girl, with
directions to put a drop of it every day into her ears. The nuns and pupils joined in the Novena,
and all declared that it would indeed be a miracle if the poor child should recover her hearing.
On Friday, April 24th, the day of the examination of the first communicants, Margaret prayed
with renewed fervour before a picture of the Venerable Mother, which some one had given her.
Her afflicted mother expected only the usual disappointment, and awaited with a sad heart her
return from the convent. Suddenly she heard her bounding up the stairs; then saw her rush into
the room, kissing her picture in transports of joy which admitted but of one explanation. She
had heard the priest quite distinctly, she assured her mother, and hoped to be admitted to
the heavenly Banquet. The excitement of her companions, and the gratitude of her teachers can
be better imagined than described. On the 30th of April, the last day of the Novena, she made
her first communion. She was visited by several of the sisters, those especially who had had
personal communication with her during the period of her infirmity, and all recognised the
wonderful nature of the cure. Mrs. Foley declared that for four years and a half, she had been
able to communicate with her only by signs.

       *       *       *       *       *

On the 10th of January, 1870, Clement Chaille of Cap Sante declared that his mother, aged seventy-three,
had in the preceding August been cured of a cancerous tumour in the nose, which, having resisted
all remedies, disappeared on the application of the water of the tomb.

       *       *       *       *       *

On the 15th of March, 1877, Miss Fortier, a pupil of the Laval Normal School, Quebec, deposed
that her brother Emilius Fortier, eighteen years of age, and subject for two years to epileptic
fits, had been cured the preceding September by a Novena to the Venerable Mother, and the use
of the miraculous water. The young man, who had been compelled to give up his college course
on account of his terrible malady, was then so completely cured, that his father had written
to re-engage his place for the next year.

       *       *       *       *       *

Our limits will not permit us to dwell at greater length on the bodily cures effected through
the intercession of the Mother of the Incarnation: the number is so great, that even an imperfect
list would fill many pages. The same may be said of the favours obtained through her prayers
in the spiritual and moral order, on which, in like manner, we shall touch but lightly. The
following are but a few among the many instances of such, which might be recorded:--

Deploring the decline of practical piety in the parish where she resided, a school teacher
of remarkable virtue determined as the first step to improvement, to introduce devotion to
the Mother of the Incarnation. For this purpose, she began by circulating copies of the Venerable
Mother's prayers to the Sacred Hearts of Jesus and Mary, to which we have so often alluded.
She besought the holy Mother to interest herself in the great work of the reformation of the
people, and as a preliminary, to give some striking manifestation of the power of her intercession
with God: The prayer was heard; the impression produced by a few wonderful cures, led to conversions,
and before long, a missionary bore public testimony to the marked change which had taken place
in the locality since the introduction of devotion to the Mother of the Incarnation.

       *       *       *       *       *

A young person charged with a school composed of children of both sexes, found herself constantly
surrounded with difficulties of all kinds, but it was her invariable habit to place her troubles
in the hands of the Mother of the Incarnation, and she found abundant reason to congratulate
herself on having adopted the plan. Whether she had to contend with annoyances from parents,
and insubordination from pupils, or whether she had to solve scientific questions beyond her
capacity, her powerful Patroness brought her safely through every embarrassment. She had become
so accustomed to her charitable intervention, that she counted on it as a matter of course.
We shall cite but one instance. A grown lad one day asked the solution of a very difficult
problem in arithmetic, required for the following day. Now the poor teacher's arithmetic was
one of her weak points; she had never seen the rules on which the given question bore, and
had not the remotest idea how to set about her task, so as usual, she had recourse to her unfailing
refuge, the Mother of the Incarnation, representing to her that without her assistance, she
must infallibly lose her reputation as a teacher, and as a consequence, her moral influence
over her pupils. Having finished the day's duties, she retired tranquilly to rest, quite convinced
that by some means or another, her difficulties would be removed. When she awoke on the following
morning, the answer to the problem was as clearly traced on her mind, as if it had been written
on paper before her eyes. She had but to copy the formula on a slate, as she would have copied
from a text book on the subject, and then she was ready to meet, and to satisfy her questioner.

There have been instances of visible protection accorded by the Venerable Mother to persons
wearing her picture or one of her relics;--instances of the conversion of the victims of intemperance,
and of other obdurate sinners for whom her prayers had been invoked;--instances of disunited
families reconciled, pecuniary embarrassments relieved, and temporal affairs brought to a happy
issue by being recommended to her charity.

Nor is it only in Quebec, or even in the New World, that the fruits of her intercession have
been experienced; on the contrary, wherever appealed to, the result has been the same.

"Among the great number of applicants to the Mother of the Incarnation," says a letter from
Three Rivers, "all, it is true, do not obtain the cures they pray for, but the good Mother
never fails to procure them something better. I do not recollect," continues the writer, "having
ever met a single person who had recourse to her intercession and was not satisfied with the
result. Some come to tell us joyfully, that they have received the favours they petitioned
for; others recognise that it is for their advantage to suffer, since the Mother has not obtained
their recovery. Those who have received only partial relief, are contented with it and seem
to desire no more."

In whatever other light the preceding facts are viewed, they must at least be looked on as
so many "heavenly messengers" assuring us of the love and protection of our saintly Mother,
and as such, must necessarily confirm our confidence in her power, and intensify our gratitude
for her favours.

"Sing to the lord a new canticle: let His praise be in the church of the saints."--(Ps. cxlix l.)

EVENING PRAYER OF THE VENERABLE MOTHER MARY OF THE INCARNATION, IN HONOUR OF THE SACRED HEART
OF JESUS.

By the Heart of my Jesus, who is the Way, the Truth, and the Life, I approach Thee, O Eternal
Father. By this Divine Heart, I adore Thee, for those who do not adore Thee; I love Thee for
all who do not love Thee; I acknowledge Thee as my God, for all the wilfully blind, who through
contempt refuse to acknowledge Thee. By this Divine Heart, I desire to pay Thee the homage
which all Thy creatures owe Thee. In spirit I go round the wide world, in search of the souls
redeemed by the precious blood of Jesus. I present them all to Thee through Him, and by His
merits I ask for their conversion. O Eternal Father! wilt Thou permit them to remain in ignorance
of my Jesus? Wilt Thou suffer that they should not live for Him who died for all? Thou seest,
O heavenly Father! that they live not yet; grant them then life, by this Divine Heart. Through
this adorable Heart, I present Thee all who labour for the extension of the Gospel, that by
its merits, they may be replenished with Thy Holy Spirit.

On it, as on a Divine Altar, I present to Thee especially...........

Thou knowest, O Incarnate Word, my adorable Saviour! that all that I would ask Thy Father by
Thy Divine Heart, by Thy Holy Soul. I ask it of Thee, when I ask it of Him, because Thou art
in Thy Father, and Thy Father is in Thee. Deign together to hear my prayer, and to make the
souls whom I present to Thee, one with Thee. Amen.

EVENING PRAYER OF THE VENERABLE MOTHER MARY OF THE INCARNATION IN HONOUR OF THE IMMACULATE
HEART OF MARY.

O Divine Spouse of my soul! what return shall I make Thee for Thine excessive charity towards
me? I give Thee thanks through Thy Blessed Mother. I offer Thee her Immaculate Heart, as I
offer Thy Sacred Heart to Thy Father. Suffer me to love Thee by that holy Heart which loved
Thee so tenderly; to offer Thee that body which served Thee, that virginal Sanctuary which
Thou didst deign to inhabit. I offer it in thanksgiving for Thy benefits; I offer it for the
amendment of my life, for the sanctification of my soul, and to obtain the grace of final perseverance
in Thy service and love.

(Name particular intentions. )

I thank Thee, my Jesus, that Thou wert pleased to choose this most Holy Virgin for Thy Mother.
I thank Thee for having granted her the graces suited to this great dignity, and for having
deigned to give her to us for our Mother. I adore the instant of Thine Incarnation, and venerate
each moment Thou didst spend as a Wanderer on earth. I thank Thee for the example of Thy Divine
virtues; the merit of Thy labours and the effusion of Thy precious Blood. I wish to have neither
life nor movement but in union with Thine. Purify my impure and imperfect life, by the purity
and perfection of Thy Divine life, and by the holy life of Thy Immaculate Mother. Amen.

A SLIGHT SKETCH OF THE OLD MONASTERY OF QUEBEC

FOUNDED BY THE VENERABLE MOTHER OF THE INCARNATION AND MADAME DE LA PELTRIE, AND GRAPHICALLY
DESCRIBED IN THE HISTORY OF THE URSULINES.

The Ursuline Convent of Quebec, built two hundred and forty years ago, and since then, twice
rebuilt and vastly enlarged, occupies an area of six acres in the centre of the Upper Town.
It is situated on a commanding eminence, almost entirely surrounded by gardens; its secluded
inhabitants can, therefore, freely enjoy, from their upper apartments, the views of unrivalled
beauty which encompass the city.

To give the reader some idea of the ever increasing prosperity of this favoured establishment,
we shall here insert the statistics of its cloistered population within the last eighty years.
At the beginning of the present century, the community was composed of 40 professed members--
27 of the Choir, and l3 Lay Sisters; added to these were 6 or 7 Novices. The boarders and half-boarders
amounted together to upwards of 60, and were united under the same teachers for the study of
both the French and English languages. This arrangement was, indeed, a matter of necessity,
as there were at the time but two young novices to direct the English classes, Rev. Mother
M. Louise McLoughlin of St. Henry, afterwards one of the most efficient Superiors of the house,
and Rev. Mother M. Doherty of St. Augustine, who died Mistress of the Novices in 1813.

From the date of the foundation, the day-school pupils had been far more numerous than the
boarders, steadily increasing with the progress of the city. At the commencement of the century,
two hundred children attended, although no little "Exiles of Erin" had yet augmented their
scores. As the Irish element, however, began to intermingle with the population of Quebec,
very many of these children made their way to the Ursulines for religious instruction, and
soon their numbers increased so amazingly, that in 1824 a day school was opened for them by
their zealous teachers, under the auspices and with the aid of the great and good Bishop Plessis,
who so dearly loved his adopted Irish flock. From this period especially, the number of French
and Irish day pupils augmented very considerably, usually amounting to upwards of 350. For
their accommodation, the house formerly occupied by the Foundress was rebuilt and enlarged in 1836.

In 1825 the community was composed of 46 professed Religious, from whom 130 boarders and half-boarders
received their education. Here the progress of the institution continues very striking, for
in 1855 the community included 56 professed Religious, 38 of whom were Choir Sisters, 18 Lay
Sisters, and 10 Novices. At the same date the boarding-school contained 230 pupils, including
half-boarders. At the present time, (June, 1880,) the community numbers 62 professed Choir
Nuns and 24 Lay Sisters, with 6 white-veiled Novices and 5 Postulants--in all, 97 members.
During this last mentioned period, the Boarders' Academy has greatly increased, amounting at
times to upwards of 370.

The Normal School Boarders' or Young Teachers' Academy, founded in 1857 by the munificence
of the Canadian Government, under the auspices of the Right Rev. Archbishop and the clergy,
included at first but 40 pupils. These also having increased in due proportion with the rest
of the establishment, now number 60 young students, under the direction of Rev. P. Lagace,
fourth Principal. They receive instruction from their own Professors as well as from the Nuns,
and constantly attend the day school, to learn from the Mistresses there engaged the difficult
art of teaching.

