THE MAN FROM BRODNEY'S

By

George Barr McCutcheon

Author of The Daughter of Anderson Crow, Graustark, Beverly of Graustark, Brewster's Millions,
Nedra, etc.

With Illustrations by Harrison Fisher

1908

CONTENTS

    CHAPTER
        I THE LATE MR. SKAGGS
       II AN EXTRAORDINARY DOCUMENT
      III INTRODUCING HOLLINGSWORTH CHASE
       IV THE INDISCREET MR. CHASE
        V THE ENGLISH INVADE
       VI THE CHÂTEAU
      VII THE BROWNES ARRIVE
     VIII THE MAN FROM BRODNEY'S
       IX THE ENEMY
        X THE AMERICAN BAR
       XI THE SLOUGH OF TRANQUILLITY
      XII WOMEN AND WOMEN
     XIII CHASE PERFORMS A MIRACLE
      XIV THE LANTERN ABOVE
       XV MR. SAUNDERS HAS A PLAN
      XVI TWO CALLS FROM THE ENEMY
     XVII THE PRINCESS GOES GALLOPING
    XVIII THE BURNING OF THE BUNGALOW
      XIX CHASE COMES FROM THE CLOUDS
       XX NEENAH
      XXI THE PLAGUE IS ANNOUNCED
     XXII THE CHARITY BALL
    XXIII THE JOY OF TEMPTATION
     XXIV SEVERAL PHILOSOPHERS
      XXV THE DISQUIETING END OF PONG
     XXVI DEPPINGHAM FALLS ILL
    XXVII THE TRIAL OF VON BLITZ
   XXVIII CENTURIES TO FORGET
     XXIX THE PURSUIT
      XXX THE PERSIAN ANGEL
     XXXI A PRESCRIBED MALADY
    XXXII THE TWO WORLDS
   XXXIII THE SHIPS THAT PASS
    XXXIV IN THE SAME GRAVE WITH SKAGGS
     XXXV A TOAST TO THE PAST
    XXXVI THE TITLE CLEAR

ILLUSTRATIONS

"He saw the Princess for the first time that afternoon" Was the crowded waiting room
ladies of all kinds of wizards of all colors, judges, merchants, officials and pedantic everyone
was complaining to the minister. They said the greedy and profiteers: There is no doubt that
this guy steals the provinces; disfigured his flamboyant oddities, said the only sensual has had
his tastes, and hoped the women would soon replace him another minister more handsome.

Babuca heard all these reasons, and could not say, iQue is this man so happy! All your enemies
have them in your waiting room, their power overwhelms their envy, and looks quantos plants
to hate him. At last came into his cabinet, and saw an old man overwhelmed of years and chores,
but still alive, and very smart. Babuca Gustole because it seemed Babuca one worthy of esteem sugeto.
The conference was very interesting: the minister confessed it was most unfortunate man, who
had by rich and poor was, that he believed omnipotent and all was impaired, that all benefits had
been paid with ingratitude, and in forty years of continuous tasks had been just a bit of satisfaction.
Enterneciose Babuca, and said among themselves that if he had made some mistakes this man, and they
loved him Ituriel punish angel, dexarle enough to charge, not exterminate.

I was arguing with the minister, when I enter the beautiful lady inattentive in whose house had
Babuca eaten, showing his face and eye symptoms of pain and anger. Burst out in bitter complaints
against the statesman, shed tears, lamented bitterly that her husband had denied a charge that
could achieve on its cradle, and that they made him creditor his wounds and services and speak with
so much energy, complained with such grace, faded with mana such objections, provided eloqueencia
strengthened their reasons, that left the cabinet until having the fortune of her husband.

Salio Babuca giving his hand and said to him: Is it possible, madam, that you have taken so much
work you by a man who you want, and how much you have to be afraid? ? How is it you do not love
him? replied the lady, know that my husband is the best friend I have in this world, and that sacrificeth
quanto by all I have, as it is not my lover to do the same thing, less sacrifice his sweetheart.
I want you to know it, it's a very nice lady, very quiet, and excellent genius had dinner tonight
with my husband and my friend the magician: come to join our taste.

She took the lady with him Babuca, and the husband who was plunged into deep grief over received
to his wife in a fit of gratitude and joy, give thousand hugs to his wife, his lady, the magician,
and Babuca. The banquet is encouraged by the happy, thanks and Donayre. Know, he told him the
beautiful lady who was having dinner, which is sometimes described as almost always women without
honor possess the virtues of an honest man, and in proof of this, come dine with me tomorrow
home of the beautiful Theon. Some old Vestal whisper it, but most charities do that together herself
that the bite; not commit the slightest injustice all interests in the world, to her lover
gives advice always generous, just glory by it, and would blush if their presence on one occasion
broken? to do good, because there is no greater stimulus to virtuous actions, which have the judge
and witness of his conduct which longs for a beloved one to deserve appreciation.

Do not miss Babuca the appointment, and saw a house that was the emporium of delights. They queen
Teona, with each spoke the language he understood: his natural understanding dwell dexaba that
of others; liked almost without meaning was so kind and charitable, and to give more luster all
his skills, was very beautiful.

Babuca met since it was Scythian and sent by a genius, if more time
stopped in Persepolis, Teona would make him forget Ituriel.

"They seem as much upset by the situation as we," he observed reflectively.

"Extraordinary state of affairs, I must say."

"And I don't know what to do about it--I don't even know how to begin. They're both married."

"And not to each other."

"She's the wife of a Lord-knows-what-kind-of-a-lord, and he's married to an uncommonly fine
girl, they say, notwithstanding the fact that she has larger social aspirations than he has means."

"And if that all-important clause in the will is not carried out to the letter, the whole fortune
goes to the bow-wows."

"Practically the same thing. He calls them 'natives,' that's all. It looks to me as though
the bow-wows will get the old man's millions. I don't see how anything short of Providence
can alter the situation."

Mr. Bowen looked out over the house-tops and Mr. Hare laughed softly under his breath.

"Thank heaven, Bowen, he names you as executor, not me."

"I shall decline to serve. It's an impossible situation, Hare. In the first place, Skaggs was
not an intimate friend of mine. I met him in Constantinople five years ago and afterward handled
some business for him in New York. He had no right to impose upon me as if------"

"But why should you hesitate? You have only to wait for the year to roll by and then turn your
troubles over to the natives. Young Browne can't marry Miss Ruthven inside of a year, simply
because there is no Miss Ruthven. She's Lady--Lady--what's the name?"

"Deppingham."

"And Browne already has one Mrs. Browne to his credit, don't you see? Well, that settles it,
I'd say. It's hardly probable that Browne will murder or divorce his wife, nor is it likely
that her ladyship would have the courage to dispose of her encumbrance in either way on such
short notice."

"But it means millions to them, Hare."

"That's their unfortunate lookout. You are to act as an executor, not as a matrimonial agent."

"But, man, it's an outrage to give all of it to those wretched islanders. Bosworth says that
rubies and sapphires grow there like mushrooms."

"Bosworth also says that the islanders are thrifty, intelligent and will fight for their rights.
There are lawyers among them, he says, as well as jewel diggers and fishermen."

"Skaggs and Lady Deppingham's grandfather were the only white men who ever lived there long
enough to find out what the island had stored up for civilisation. That's why they bought it
outright, but I'm hanged if I can see why he wants to give it back to the natives."

"Perhaps he owes it to them. He doubtless bought it for a song and, contrary to all human belief,
he may have resurrected a conscience. Anyhow, there remains a chance for the heirs to break
the will."

"It can't be done, Hare, it can't be done. It's as clean an instrument as ever survived a man."

It is, by this time, safe for the reader to assume that Mr. Taswell Skaggs had been a rich
man and therefore privileged to be eccentric. It is also time for the writer to turn the full
light upon the tragic comedy which entertained but did not amuse a select audience of lawyers
on both sides of the Atlantic. As this tale has to do with the adventures of Taswell Skaggs's
heirs and not with the strange old gentleman who sleeps his last sleep literally in the midst
of the island of Japat, it is eminently wise to make as little as possible of him.

Mr. Skaggs came of a sound old country family in upper England, but seems to have married a
bit above his station. His wife was serving as governess in the home of a certain earl when
Taswell won her heart and dragged her from the exalted position of minding other people's children
into the less conspicuous one of caring for her own. How the uncouth country youth--not even
a squire--overcame her natural prejudice against the lower classes is not for me to explain.
Sufficient to announce, they were married and lived unhappily ever afterward.

Their only son was killed by a runaway horse when he was twenty, and their daughter became
the wife of an American named Browne when she was scarcely out of her teens. It was then that
Mr. Skaggs, practically childless, determined to make himself wifeless as well.

He magnanimously deeded the unentailed farm to his wife, turned his securities into cash and
then set forth upon a voyage of exploration. It is common history that upon one dark, still
night in December he said good-bye forever to the farm and its mistress; but it is doubtful
if either of them heard him.

To be "jolly well even" with him, Mrs. Skaggs did a most priggish thing. She died six months
later. But, before doing so, she made a will in which she left the entire estate to her daughter,
effectually depriving the absent husband of any chance to reclaim his own.

Taswell Skaggs was in Shanghai when he heard the news. It was on a Friday. His informant was
that erstwhile friend, Jack Wyckholme. Naturally, Skaggs felt deeply aggrieved with the fate
which permitted him to capitulate when unconditional surrender was so close at hand. His language
for one brief quarter of an hour did more to upset the progress of Christian endeavour in the
Far East than all the idols in the Chinese Empire.

"There's nawthin' in England for me, Jackie. My gal's a bloomin' foreigner by this time and
she'll sell the bleedin' farm, of course. She's an h'American, God bless 'er 'eart. I daresay
if I'd go to 'er and say I'd like my farm back again she'd want to fork hover, but 'er bloody
'usband wouldn't be for that sort of hextravagance. 'E'd boot me off the hisland."

"The United States isn't an island, Tazzy," explained Mr. Wyckholme, gulping his brandy and soda.

Mr. Wyckholme was the second son of Sir Somebody-or-other and had married the vicar's daughter.
This put him into such bad odour with his family that he hurried off to the dogs--and a goodly
sized menagerie besides, if the records of the inebriate's asylum are to be credited. His wife,
after enduring him for sixteen years, secured a divorce. It may not have been intended as an
insult to the scapegoat, but no sooner had she freed herself from him than his father, Sir
Somebody-or-other, took her and her young daughter into the ancestral halls and gave them a
much-needed abiding-place. This left poor Mr. Jack quite completely out in the world--and he
proceeded to make the best and the worst of it while he had the strength and ambition. Accepting
the world as his home, he ventured forth to visit every nook and cranny of it. In course of
time he came upon his old-time neighbour and boyhood friend, Taswell Skaggs, in the city of
Shanghai. Neither of them had seen the British Isles in two years or more.

"'Ow do you know?" demanded Taswell.

"Haven't I been there, old chap? A year or more? It's a rotten big place where gentlemen aspire
to sell gloves and handkerchiefs and needlework over the shop counters. At any rate, that's
what every one said every one else was doing, and advised me to--to get a situation doing the
same. You know, Tazzy, I couldn't well afford to starve and I wouldn't sell things, so I came
away. But it's no island."

"Well, that's neither here nor there, Jackie. I 'aven't a 'ome and you 'aven't a 'ome, and
we're wanderers on the face of the earth. My wife played me a beastly trick, dying like that.
I say marriage is a blooming nuisance."

"Marriage, my boy, is the convalescence from a love affair. One wants to get out the worst
way but has to stay in till he's jolly well cured. For my part, I'm never going back to England."

"Nor I. It would be just like me, Jackie, to 'ave a relapse and never get out again."

The old friends, with tear-dimmed eyes, shook hands and vowed that nothing short of death should
part them during the remainder of their journey through life. That night they took an inventory.
Jack Wyckholme, gentleman's son and ne'er-do-well, possessed nine pounds and a fraction, an
appetite and excellent spirits, while Taswell Skaggs exhibited a balance of one thousand pounds
in a Shanghai bank, a fairly successful trade in Celestial necessities, and an unbounded eagerness
to change his luck.

"I have a proposition to make to you, Tazzy," said Mr. Wyckholme, late in the night.

"I think I'll listen to it, Jackie," replied Mr. Skaggs, quite soberly.

As the outcome of this midnight proposition, Taswell Skaggs and John Wyckholme arrived, two
months later, at the tiny island of Japat, somewhere south of the Arabian Sea, there to remain
until their dying days and there to accumulate the wealth which gave the first named a chance
to make an extraordinary will. For thirty years they lived on the island of Japat. Ago century
no one had offered him this rogue scruples to me is being offered now. Then the generality
of mortals thought they knew fully what was money, and nobody saw or the possibility of doubt
on this point were born, misunderstandings, or disputes. Today, Political Economy, is another
matter. Huge volumes have been written to explain what money and what is not. No doubt all those
truths, blatant, simple and be obvious that the interests of powerful men or cunning has had
some hard times to conceal or misrepresent, have been concealed or distorted because it has always
been infinite number of papar in the world. Of these truths, those relating to money, capital
or wealth, are those that have offered more encouragement to these misrepresentations and deception;
but though I can not deny that economists, that place, so to speak, definitely clear these truths,
they do a great service to the public, can not be denied either that the Most of these truths
are what are known as Pero-Grullo. For those who ignored joke made by some men of the credulity
of his fellows is not conceivable, for example, that a wise economist half took seriously use
reading to demonstrate that Money is not a mere token representative of the wealth, but it has
and must have a value itself, that a penny, not only represents the value of anything that is
worth a penny, but it's worth and should be worth the same as anything worth a dime, and four
real things that are worth to each and thirty-four things that are worth a quarter. Still farrago
have spent more economists to show another truth, which is most unlikely nobody has ever doubted,
and whose proof seems absurd to those who are not initiated the mysteries of political economy,
nobody is busy with formality. Is this true that money is not all the wealth, but a part of wealth.
Who has ever been able fit in the brain that is not rich when he has no money, and has wheat, olive
groves, vineyards, houses, fine furniture, jewelry, textiles, etc..? If all these objects mentally
reduced to money, the rate appreciates and find that it is a treasure, for example, two million
reais. But in making the appraisal, merely to determine the exact value he has, by adopting
a common measure, which is money. If instead of the real, the shields or ESP, as the oxen were,
we would say that this owner had a land worth five hundred oxen, and such employee a salary of twenty
oxen a year. The advantage gold or silver coin minted for the foregoing clearly apparent.
Blessed and praise be to God who has given birth at a time when everything is ascertained and
explained so cute! An ox is not very portable, it fits in your pocket, does not happen in all
markets spent on food and can die, and the money or eat or die. In addition an ox may be fatter
or skinnier, smaller or larger, older or younger, while a shield is always a shield, enjoys
eternal youth, and has or should have the same weight and the same law.

This is the great advantage enjoyed by this science. It is so clear, so pedestrian and so simple,
children of the doctrine could understand if they wanted. And yet (something, incidentally admirable!),
just take a step from ground so firm and sure, and from place usually
so clear economists fall into a bottomless sea or within cimeriana
dark night.

Economy Politics goes to escape, jumping from the truism to the sophistry with prodigious agility.

In
the same issue of whether the precious metals, gold and silver are better than oxen for currency,
unforeseen difficulties and contradictions occur. Sample serves as : If the debt that the Spanish
government has made and continues to contract is estimated at oxen could not be lower by 5 100
in one-twentieth, except that the seven lean breed of Pharaoh's dream
and fill the world infinitely all of oxen cacoquimios and emaciated,
but debt estimated PTA has made the cut with softness of a feather,
and almost without anyone realizing it.

Oxen, man with large, unless the lean children, would always be oxen, but the new ESP not
like the old, and the day that the minting of new currency is completed, we ensure that instead
of duty, for example, 20,000 million reais, we 19,000, not be that alteration of the currency
does not pray with the creditors of the State, and they continue to pay interests under the
old law.

But leaving aside this issue, stating that while here we use the word money within the meaning of
capital or wealth, we perfectly the distinction of these things, and have made all men of all
ages, no need for economists indoctrinate. The reason we call money at all wealth is that money is
wealth without which you can not pass. Money is also a value that flows more easily all other
values, and represents and measured. Money is not all wealth, but the moving, and more circulating
liquid wealth.

Blood is not all life on the body, and yet not live if the blood does not circulate throughout
the blood or if we escape, although not completely accurate comparison, because there is no
comparison completely accurate. There is nothing in the body that can replace the blood, but
there is something in society that can replace money, and this something is credit, which
does not create an atom over wealth, but put into circulation and provides mobility and near ubiquity
and much of the wealth that stands and inert. In short, the money, but replaceable credit is part
of wealth, and so this as being the most lively, more energetic and more circulating is a pain
to lose. The company has no money, or the guy who has no money, already Aviados. After many
studies have inferred therefore that the money economists is indispensable to man from the moment that
man lives in society, acute above, whose truth shines brighter than the midday light.

II.

Sitting and these bases, I philosophize and a little discourse on the relationship of money (And
generally of all wealth) with the customs and the highest powers of mind human. Begin to combat
some errors.

The first and most capital is to believe that in our days, is money
dearer at other times.

Nothing more false.

On this day, men are as always, but if some alteration has occurred, has been favorable. You can
almost say that men have more generous.

Easy I would build here a multitude of historical examples, from the remotest ages so far, to
prove that the interest has dominated the world since then, and his empire far from increasing,
fell. I would not, however, make a scholarly work but a meditation philosophical.

The satirical poets, novelists, authors of comedies of all past centuries have shown that at the
time in which they lived was estimated more money than this. While these sayings, ancient remains
of what is called wisdom, come in support of what I say .-- For money the dog dances .-- Cobra
and do not pay, that we are mortal gifts .-- Ten .-- soften rocks
money, yours or someone else .-- Whoever has money, looks tambourines
.-- And so could I keep citing to fill a print sheet.

But still I will quote another saying that, Spain is a very Catholic country, should be regarded
as the most rising hyperbole all is done with money that everything is bought and sold, even the
most venerable and holy. The saying says: For my money, Dad I love him.

In countries with a backward culture, we see a phenomenon which, as we get civilized and a little
more polishing, wanes, and that does not disappear completely. Is this phenomenon disgrace,
discredited, the strong suspicion, and even the horror that surrounds him that is poor, which
is hated, when it is neglected. The old Spanish proverb states that the money is the whole man:
that is, that money is guaranteed straight, probity and integrity
in whom you have.

Further away is yet another proverb: Poverty is not shame, but bouquet of spice. Our immortal Cervantes,
echoing the general sentiment, he says, not once, it is difficult for a poor to be honest.

Well you can bet that no one would think, in our century, San Jose excuse have been a carpenter,
and assume that tickets had three or mortgage.

Neither by the blood nobility apologized poverty before having money has been in all Source century
nobility. Monies are quality, the din is better than the gift, are
sayings corroborate my assertion.

The deep reverence that inspire the money and who has always been identical. The has declined
somewhat is the horror or contempt for the poor, and some pitfalls that must be rich in old,
perpetually surrounded.

Prudent and discreet man was, not many years ago, everywhere, and the day has even, on many,
to do if you can, a great mystery of the state of their finances, especially if it is or was
very rich or very Poor: If you are very poor, so you will not despise, and if it is very rich,
so you will not steal or kill him. Here in this awful dilemma of being dismissed or threatened
with death born that sentence of moralists, that civilized countries today seems so stupid
and so absurd that I had that desire was a mediocrity of fortune, to live happily and quiet,
not envious or envied. Because, in truth, if money is a good while greater good, should be more
palatable, and not conceived the golden mediocritas held by Horace and other poets of all times,
but remembering that the wealthy man was continuously exposed to kill or mistreat him to steal,
and the emperor or Prince under whose rule he lived, and greedy mob. And when wealth was not annexed
a high degree of power was a constant danger, and almost impossible to conjure. I do not think
I hate that deep that we had in the Middle Ages the Jews were just coming deicide people, but
they were rich. The frequent killings of Jews that occurred in Spain perhaps they had not
come to fruition, if the Jews had been careful to stay poor. Something similar can be said of
the monks in recent days, after they lost retained the power and wealth, while the scandal
has been lower because the sweetness of customs, the greater abundance of money and wellness,
and more concerted and political way of life of men, have diminished the hatred of those who do
not have that have.

Proof of this confidence about them is that now, in civilized countries, nobody or almost nobody
treasures. A few years ago, all that were treasured. Popular literature is full of stories and
legends of hidden treasures, guarded by a dragon, a giant or a monster terrible, nothing less
was needed so as not to steal.

These treasures were, or were supposed to, so cleverly hidden that it was necessary to discover
a supernatural gift. From here originated the idea of ​​the wizards, who discovered the treasures.
The science of dowsing, now losing its poetic nature and superhuman, has come to be transformed into
the Statistical auxiliary discipline of political economy, with respect to which, it becomes
what is Anatomy in relation to physiology. Statistics is a true delicacy of science, and so that it will
soon form the uninitiated the concept that it deserves, we can define Science tells us snacks. For
this science finds out how much flour, how much meat, how many beans and chickpeas are devouring
a year than is spent on clothing and footwear; what is produced and consumed. All this would
be easier to figure out if people fearful that the Government would impose a greater contribution,
not disguise a little spent, pretending to be even worse treatment than is generally.

However, the desire to conceal and disguise the wealth that you have some money has gone almost
everything in our age. In the past was thus a danger that the money ran out to light, which
had to be legitimately usurer who lent him. The credit, which puts moving the productive forces,
was hardly known then.

Today, however, the ease, mobility, coordination of money, which is presented without fear everywhere
except in Spain, which is agitated and flows, makes believe thinkers little men who live in
a metallic century: now is not intended or it speaks only of money.

What a mistake so gross! Well, by chance, most revered, most adored the image that comes through
the streets and squares, even when very devout procession, and bending everyone in their path
the knee, the divinity itself, always hidden in the back of the sanctuary, for fear that the
vulgar profane with their looks, and even whose name is incommunicable and unknown to those not initiated
into its mysteries?

There are also many other reasons that the day is considered less money. It is the first there's
more. It is the second, which comes more easily credit to all parties.

It is the third that produces less interest. (None of these reasons militate in Spain today. Economists
explain why.) is the fourth, and perhaps the most powerful, that our century, as more civilized than
previous ones, is also more spiritual.

And here I can not help stopping to condemn the ridiculous habit of
giving in charge of materialistic century.

What century spiritualist was never more than ours? Music is the most spiritual of all art
and flowers now flourish extraordinary. Just no fool, who, if he had lived two or three centuries
ago, not having received more than eating, not now enjoy, or at least do not say that enjoys
listening to music wiser and convoluted. Juan Ruiz, Archpriest of Hita, says there are only two
essential things that move man: namely: Inspection and maintenance, and one that I would not dare
to lie, although the tool Archpriest, shielded with Aristotle

If dixiese of mine, would be to blame; Grand philosopher said to him,
not me to crawl.

    
    

So was the concept materialistic in the fourteenth century was a Catholic priest in the Catholic Spain,
the mobile core of human action! Out of these phones did not succeed to discover other mobile.
How things have changed in the day! The music also moves and no man who does not like going
to the Royal Theatre.

But the spirituality of our century is synthetic, and this is the reason that some, do not understand
him, accused of materialistic century. In the past, or if there was no matter and left it at
home as something lost and given to the devil, falling which that were in the mill, or was abused
and punished as rebellious subjects where people came to take in the most cruel asceticism. In our time
trying to rehabilitate people matter, in the best sense of the word, and purify it as they can.
The matter at last is God's work, and although some perverted by sin, is not something as abominable
as says. At last she has been resurrected and go to heaven, but transfigured and glorious.
So bad that I do not go polishing, perfecting, beautiful and subtilized in this world. To polish
usually men, in some developed countries, wash and all day, custom rare if not unknown in Christendom,
a hundred or two hundred years does, and against which even the pious fulminate anathemas Mr.
Veuillot and other holy fathers. So not quite understand the significance of the principle of that
ode of Pindar: High Don is water. Rather, water was regarded with horror and fear, to cause
the greatest evils, especially for people of a certain age. Hence the saying hydrophobic as
accredited: Of forty up, or get married, or you embark, or get wet belly. A man of seventy, when
or where there was, or has not fallen into disuse this saying, should or ought to have their skin
covered with more stratification that our globe. If this neglect of matter that existed in past
centuries, is what is spiritualism, is should prefer to be materialistic. But it seems to me that
true spirituality is in cleaned, shelled and purified, so the soul and body. A man can not
clean feel so beastly appetites as a dirty man. In many moral treaties, writings by monks,
who washed little insurance, I have read so unprecedented precautions to prevent temptation, Pasman
me and make me imagine that men and women would then be like tinder, gunpowder and fire. One
of these authors suggested that if there has to deliver something to a woman, put it to be
delivered in one table or elsewhere, and not be given by hand, to avoid the slightest rub or casual
touching, adding that people of different sex, they are more forthcoming, they must be at least a
distance four rods. The effervescence, which represents the excess of caution, no doubt came
from of the limited water, which cools, molifica and even spiritualized.

It is true that lust is not as fierce in the day as in the past. How lonely do not surprise
those penitents who, after long fasts and cruel still could not tame
and curb some bad passions, which represents some language mystics
call the donkey?

What does not scare, for example, that St. Hilarion, not ate more than a dozen dried figs
a day, and rations had to be shortened by more than half because he was very brave and emberrenchinado?
In this sense we are also more spiritualist now. While then the study of theology and lit overwrought
feelings emotional soul in love, a love that could easily twist a bad part, now studying spirited
youth, from his earliest years, business as serious as Krause Philosophy or political economy,
are made more moderating force and less mischievous and acquire a Gravity really like them, and all the
fire and freshness of imagination going, not poems and compliments to girls, but in rhymed prose
dithyrambs mellifluous, pray free trade, prays to desestanco salt, now to another object of the
same order as in the past old or even suspected that might be the target of many shots poetic
and abductions lyric so wonderful.

These symptoms are noticed today spiritualization everywhere. And homeopathy, to the infirmities
of the matter is cured almost spiritually. Do not take medicines, but are taken, so to speak,
the virtues, the spirit, the misty shadows of the remedies. Who soon know if they will invent foods
also homeopathic precursors that are already beef extract and revalence
Liebig and nourish us with the virtual or the essence imponderable
power of turkeys and hams, rather than nourish the common mode and
rude now used?

Recent discoveries of physiologists prove the rudeness with which nature proceeds so far in
this nutrition. To ensure, as evident truth that in less than a month completely moved all the
atoms or molecules in our bodies and take others. The soul, the hidden principle of life, virtue
plasmante, energy reporting, how ontic, as a wise friend of mine called, is only what remains.
Else changes constantly.

Life is, therefore, not poetic and figurative, but in all reality, a river, a whirlpool, a raging
torrent. A gentleman, to regulate bulk, you get to live seventy years and weighing six or
seven arrobas can ensure that it has been, assimilated and owned as part from your body, from
birth until the time of his death, some 5,000 or 6,000 arrobas substance which, if they are
equipped with high density, perhaps forming a volume one, two or three cubic miles. I ask, what
is the fuss, this move this incessant transmigration of matter, if the shape remains, when, if we
have a wart, always retain the wart? Would not it be better, and it is not possible to discover,
that no substances lose so often, and we do not have either that continually replenish? This
if it would Economy, should it be discovered. What is life but a development of heat, fire,
flame? And why, do not we ever get out of its dormant state that imponderable fluid and subtle,
without combustion of many substances? Do not you ever get cause the fire to move our machines
without having to consume all the lush flora and gigantea of ​​the early ages, and retain the vital
heat without destroying so many ways, and not eat so many things? I see clear signs of approaching
the time of these inventions. Phrenology and magnetism has served to demonstrate the intimate and
mysterious harmonies link the spirit and the flesh. The electro-biology is a science that begins
now, and has yet to go a long way. May not be far away the blissful and glorious day when
fed in a less rude, volatilize our bodies, and to sustain in the air, and become ubiquitous,
and communicate, and even light and airy.

For all these considerations and others that remain silent in order not to make very tedious digression,
I have certainly our age, if they sin by something, or pneumatosis is plenty of spiritualism.

And
yet, I say, in this century as a spiritualist, loves little more than money mostly. I agree
that there is this love, but not in that has not always been, and perhaps more alive. I'm
not going to apologize now, but to explain.

At the time that a more perfect society will be well organized, the money will acquire a virtue most
significant (approaching infallibility) that is intelligent, industrious
and careful who you have.

The money will then represent the talent, work and other many virtues. Not having money mean,
almost equivalent to being lazy, ignorant and for little. We have not yet, unfortunately, to
this degree of social perfection, and there still many people who
get the money badly.

But as to confess that the greatest number will becomes ill, even as this were true, would be led
to serious dangers, and would poor excuse for hating the rich, all reasonable people and friends
of order and public tranquility, we believe and we believe that no ill-gotten money, while
a court did not prove otherwise.
 Not that there
were grocers or undertakers among them; it was his way of impressing his sense of freedom upon
them.

He was an orphan and bounden to no man. No one had the right to question his actions after
his twenty-first anniversary. It was fortunate for him that he was a level-headed as well as
a wild-hearted chap, else he might have sunk to the perdition his worthy uncles prescribed
for him. He went in for law at Yale, and then practised restlessly, vaguely for two years in
Baltimore, under the patronage of his father's oldest friend, a lawyer of distinction.

"If I fail at everything else, I'll go back to the practice of law," he said cheerfully. "Uncle
Henry is mean enough to say that he has forgotten more law than I ever knew, but he has none
the better of me. 'Gad, I am confident that I've forgotten more law, myself, than I ever knew."

Tiring of the law books and reports in the old judge's office, he suddenly abandoned his calling
and set forth to see the world. Almost before his friends knew that he had left he was heard
of in Turkestan. In course of time he served as a war correspondent for one of the great newspapers,
acted as agent for great hemp dealers in the Philippines, carried a rifle with the Boers in
South Africa, hunted wild beasts in Asia and in Hottentot land, took snapshots in St. Petersburg,
and almost got to the North Pole with one of the expeditions. To do and be all of these he
had to be a manly man. Not in a month's journey would you meet a truer thoroughbred, a more
agreeable chap, a more polished vagabond, than Hollingsworth Chase, first lieutenant in Dame
Fortune's army. Tall, good looking, rawboned, cheerful, gallant, he was the true comrade of
those merry, reckless volunteers from all lands who find commissions in Fortune's army and
serve her faithfully. He had shared pot luck in odd parts of the world with English lords,
German barons and French counts--all serving under the common flag. His heart had withstood
the importunate batterings of many a love siege; the wounds had been pleasant ones and the
recovery quick. He left no dead behind him.

He was nearly thirty when the diplomatic service began to appeal to him as a pleasing variation
from the rigorous occupations he had followed heretofore. A British lordling put it into his
head, away out in Delhi. It took root, and he hurried home to attend to its growth. One of
his uncles was a congressman and another was in some way connected with railroads. He first
sought the influence of the latter and then the recommendation of the former. In less than
six weeks after his arrival in Washington he was off for the city of Thorberg in the Grand
Duchy of Rapp-Thorberg, carrying with him an appointment as consul and supplied with the proper
stamps and seal of office. His uncle compassionately informed him beforehand that his service
in Thorberg would be brief and certainly would lead up to something much better.

At the end of five months he was devoutly, even pathetically, hoping that his uncle was no
false prophet. He loathed Thorberg; he hated the inhabitants; he smarted under the sting of
royal disdain; he had no real friends, no boon companions and he was obliged to be good! What
wonder, then, that the bored, suffering, vivacious Mr. Chase seized the first opportunity to
leap headforemost into the very thick of a most appalling indiscretion!

When he first arrived in Thorberg to assume his sluggish duties he was not aware of the fact
that the Grand Duke had an unmarried daughter, the Princess Genevra. Nor, upon learning that
the young lady existed, was he particularly impressed; the royal princesses he had been privileged
to look upon were not remarkable for their personal attractiveness: he forthwith established
Genevra in what he considered to be her proper sphere.

She was visiting in St. Petersburg or Berlin or some other place--he gave it no thought at
the time--when he reached his post of duty, and it was toward the end of his fifth month before
she returned to her father's palace in Thorberg. He awoke to the importance of the occasion,
and took some slight interest in the return of the royal young lady--even going so far as to
follow the crowd to the railway station on the sunny June afternoon. His companions were two
young fellows from the English bank and a rather agreeable attaché of the French Government.

He saw the Princess for the first time that afternoon, and he was bowled over, to use the expression
of his English friends with whom he dined that night. She was the first woman that he had ever
looked upon that he could describe, for she was the only one who had impressed him to that
extent. This is how he pictured her at the American legation in Paris a few weeks later:

"Ever see her? Well, you've something to live for, gentlemen. I've seen her but three times
and I don't seem able to shake off the spell. Her sisters, you know--the married ones--are
nothing to look at, and the Grand Duke isn't a beauty by any means. How the deuce she happens
to produce such a contrast I can't, for the life of me, understand. Nature does some marvellous
things, by George, and she certainly spread herself on the Princess Genevra. You've never seen
such hair. 'Gad, it's as near like the kind that Henner painted as anything human could be,
except that it's more like old gold, if you can understand what I mean by that. Not bronze,
mind you, nor the raw red, but--oh, well, I'm not a novelist, so I can't half-way describe
it. She's rather tall--not too tall, mind you--five feet five, I'd say--whatever that is in
the metric system. Slender and well dressed--oh, that's the strangest thing of all! Well dressed!
Think of a princess being well dressed! I can see that you don't believe me, but I'll stake
my word it's true. Of course, I've seen but three of her gowns and--but that's neither here
nor there. I'd say she's twenty-two or twenty-three years of age--not a minute older. I think
her eyes are a very dark grey, almost blue. Her skin is like a--a--oh, let me see, what is
there that's as pure and soft as her skin? Something warm, and pink, and white, d'ye see? Well,
never mind. And her smile! And her frown! You know, I've seen both of 'em, and one's as attractive
as the other. She's a real princess, gentlemen, and the prettiest woman I've ever laid my eyes
upon. And to think of her as the wife of that blithering little ass--that nincompoop of a Karl
Brabetz! She loathes him, I'm sure--I know she does. And she's got to marry him! That's what
she gets for being a Grand Duke's daughter. Brabetz is the heir apparent to some duchy or other
over there and is supposed to be the catch of the season. You've heard of him. He was in Paris
this season and cut quite a figure--a prince with real money in his purse, you know. I wonder
why it is that our American girls can't marry the princes who have money instead of those who
have none. Not that I wish any of our girls such bad luck as Brabetz! I'll stake my head he'll
never forget me!" Chase concluded with a sharp, reflective laugh in which his hearers joined,
for the escapade which inspired it was being slyly discussed in every embassy in Europe by
this time, but no one seemed especially loth to shake Chase's hand on account of it.

But to return: the advent of the Princess put fresh life into the slowgoing city and court
circles. Charming people, whom Chase had never seen before, seemed to spring into existence
suddenly; the streets took on a new air; the bands played with a keener zest and the army prinked
itself into a most amazingly presentable shape. Officers with noble blood in their veins stepped
out of the obscurity of months; swords clanked merrily instead of dragging slovenly at the
heels of their owners; uniforms glistened with a new ambition, and the whole atmosphere of
Thorberg underwent a change so startling that Chase could hardly believe his senses. He lifted
up his chin, threw out his chest, banished the look of discontent from his face and announced
to himself that Thorberg was not such a bad place after all.

For days he swung blithely through the streets, the hang-dog look gone from his eyes, always
hoping for another glimpse of the fair sorceress who had worked the great transformation. He
even went so far as to read the court society news in the local papers, and grew to envy the
men whose names were mentioned in the same column with that of the fair Genevra. It was two
weeks before he saw her the second time; he was more enchanted by her face than before, especially
as he came to realise the astonishing fact that she was kind enough to glance in his direction
from time to time.

It was during the weekly concert in the Kursaal, late one night. She came in with a party,
among whom he recognised several of the leading personages at court.

Once a week the regular concert gave way to a function in which the royal orchestra was featured.
On such occasions the attendance was extremely fashionable, the Duke and his court usually
being present. It was not until this time, however, that Chase felt that he could sit through
a concert without being bored to extinction. He loved music, but not the kind that the royal
orchestra rendered; Wagner, Chopin, Mozart were all the same to him--he hated them fervently
and he was not yet given to stratagems and spoils. Where legitimate, and casting aside the evil passion of envy,
being rich means and must mean that whoever is worth more than who is poor. In short, the
money is and has to be the proper measure of worth of a person.

Certainly there are some rare virtues and tops the money, do not bring money, and, at the time
that they had or exercised to acquire money, leave be such virtues, but those virtues have their
price in themselves. The virtue Excellence is so precious, that there is nothing on earth
can afford. For this I have found always ridiculous prize offered every virtue. Who are put to be
virtuous to win the award would not be virtuous. Tend to make even the virtue of fame and respect
men, it is difficult to ascertain whether it is virtuous firmness and rectitude soul or timidity,
stupidity or cowardice, and men, as virtue is not very evident, we always try to attribute
those negative qualities. So, in almost all languages ancient and modern, the word good, apart from
its direct sense, means simplicity, as dabbenaggine in Italian, euetheia in Greek, French bonhomie,
etc., etc. But as virtue is and must also be superior to the pride, the virtuoso, not only must
be even in exchange for being poor, but in exchange for passing a solemn fool.

Certain declamations and diatribes against vice, corruption and luxury,
I found always more characteristic of envy or stupidity that a right
spirit and judicious.

When it is said, for example, a good man is cornered and unattended and live poorly and this
rascal lives in a palace and gives lavish parties, the honest woman walking on foot for those
Street, filled with mud, and this is mistress in silks, lace and jewels, a magnificent car;
when it is said, again, I can not laugh at least once to move me. Why, do you probity wants to
be paid with palaces, and chastity with diamonds and trains? Then the biggest rascal would become
honest to live with the prince, and would throw quiff the trip to Lucrecia and Susan, to achieve
by this means that the opposite able now. The truth is that the world is less evil than believed.
 His was an unique figure, also, for he was easily
distinguishable as the only American in the brilliant assemblage.

He was presented to the Princess late in the evening, together with Baggs of the British office.
His pride and confidence received a severe shock. She glanced at him with unaffected welcome,
but the air of one who was looking upon his face for the first time. It was not until he had
spent a full hour in doleful self-commiseration, that his sense of worldliness came to his
relief. In a flash, he was joyously convincing himself that her pose during the presentation
was artfully--and very properly--assumed. He saw through it very plainly! How simple he had
been! Of course, she could not permit him to feel that she had ever displayed the slightest
interest in him! His spirits shot upward so suddenly that Baggs accused him of "negotiating
a drink on the sly" and felt very much injured that he had been ignored.

The gardens of the palace were not unlike the stage setting of a great spectacle. The sleepy,
stolid character of the court had been transformed, as if by magic. Chase wondered where all
the pretty, vivacious women could have sprung from--and were these the officers of the Royal
Guard that he had so often laughed at in disdain? Could that gay old gentleman in red and gold
be the morbid, carelessly clad Duke of Rapp-Thorberg, whom he had grown to despise because
he seemed so ridiculously unlike a real potentate? He marvelled and rejoiced as he strolled
hither and thither with the casual Baggs, and for the first time in his life really felt that
it was pleasant to be stared at--in admiration, too, he may be pardoned for supposing.

He could not again approach within speaking distance of the Princess--nor did he presume to
make the effort. Chase knew his proper place. It must be admitted, however, that he was never
far distant from her, but perhaps chance was responsible for that--chance and Baggs, who, by
nature, kept as close to royalty as the restrictions allowed.

She was the gayest, the most vivacious being in the whole assemblage; she had but to stretch
out her hand or project her smile and every man in touch with the spell was ready to drop at
her feet. At last, she led her court off toward the pavilion under which the royal orchestra
was playing. As if it were a signal, every one turned his steps in that direction. Chase and
the Englishman had been conversing diligently with an ancient countess and her two attractive
daughters near the fountain. The Countess gave the command in the middle of Chase's dissertation
on Italian cooking, and the party hastily fell in line with the throng which hurried forward.

"What is it? Supper again?" whispered Baggs, lugubriously.

One of the young women, doubtless observing the look of curiosity in the face of the American,
volunteered the information that the orchestra was to repeat the great number which had so
stirred the musical world at the concert the week before. Chase's look of despair was instantly
banished by the recollection that the Princess had bestowed unqualified approval on the previous
occasion. Hence, if she enjoyed it, he was determined to be pleased.

Again the dapper director came forward to lead the musicians, and again he was most enthusiastically
received. His uniform fairly sparkled with the thrill of vanity, which seemed to burst from
every seam; his sword clanked madly against his nimble legs as he bowed and scraped his grateful
recognition of the honour. This time Chase was not where he could watch the Princess; he found,
therefore, that he could devote his attention to the music and the popular conductor. He was
amazed to find that the fellow seemed to be inspired; he was also surprised to find himself
carried away by the fervour of the moment.

With the final crash of the orchestra, he found himself shouting again with the others; oddly,
this time he was as mad as they. A score or more of surprised, disapproving eyes were turned
upon him when he yelled "Encore!"

"There will be no encore," admonished the fair girl at his side, kindly. "It is not New York,"
she added, with a sly smile.

Ten minutes later, Chase and the Englishman were lighting their cigars in an obscure corner
of the gardens, off in the shadows where the circle of light spent itself among the trees.

"Extraordinarily beautiful," Chase murmured reflectively, as he seated himself upon the stone
railing along the drive.

"Yes, they say he really wrote it himself," drawled Baggs, puffing away.

"I'm not talking about the music," corrected Chase sharply.

"Oh," murmured Baggs, apologetically. "The night?"

"No! The Princess, Baggs. Haven't you noticed her?" with intense sarcasm in his tone.

"Of course, I have, old chap. By Jove, do you know she is good-looking--positively ripping."

The concert over, people began strolling into the more distant corners of the huge garden,
down the green-walled walks and across the moonlit terraces. For a long time, the two men sat
moodily smoking in their dark nook, watching the occasional passers-by; listening to the subdued
laughter and soft voices of the women, the guttural pleasantries of the men. They lazily observed
the approach of one couple, attracted, no doubt, by the disparity in the height of the two
shadows. The man was at least half a head shorter than his companion, but his ardour seemed
a thousandfold more vast. Chase was amused by the apparent intensity of the small officer's
devotion, especially as it was met with a coldness that would have chilled the fervour of a
man much larger and therefore more timid. It was impossible to see the faces of the couple
until they passed through a moonlit streak in the walk, quite close at hand.

Chase started and grasped his companion's arm. One was the Princess Genevra and--was it possible?
Yes, the nimble conductor! The sensation of the hour--the musical lion! Moreover, to Chase's
cold horror, the "little freak" was actually making violent love to the divinity of Rapp-Thorberg!

There was no doubt of it now. The Princess and her escort--the plebeian upstart--were quite
near at hand, and, to the dismay of the smokers, apparently were unaware of their presence
in the shadows. Chase's heart was boiling with disappointed rage. His idol had fallen, from
a tremendous height to a depth which disgusted him.

Then transpired the thing which brought about Hollingsworth Chase's sudden banishment from
Rapp-Thorberg, and came near to making him the laughing stock of the service.

The Princess had not seen the two men; nor had the fervent conductor, whose impassioned French
was easily distinguishable by the unwilling listeners. The sharp, indignant "no" of the Princess,
oft repeated, did much to relieve the pain in the heart of her American admirer. Finally, with
an unmistakable cry of anger, she halted not ten feet from where Chase sat, as though he had
become a part of the stone rail. He could almost feel the blaze in her eyes as she turned upon
the presumptuous conductor.

"I have asked you not to touch me, sir! Is not that enough? If you persist, I shall be compelled
to appeal to my father again. The whole situation is loathsome to me. Are you blind? Can you
not see that I despise you? I will not endure it a day longer. You promised to respect my wishes--"

"How can I respect a promise which condemns me to purgatory every time I see you?" he cried
passionately. "I adore you. You are the queen of my life, the holder of my soul. Genevra, Genevra,
I love you! My soul for one tender word, for one soft caress! Ah, do not be so cruel! I will
be your slave--"

"Enough! Stop, I say! If you dare to touch me!" she cried, drawing away from her tormentor,
her voice trembling with anger. The little conductor's manner changed on the instant. He gave
a snarl of rage and despair combined as he raised his clenched hands in the air. For a moment
words seemed to fail him. Then he cried out:

"By heaven, I'll make you pay for this some day! You shall learn what a man can do with a woman
such as you are! You--"

Just at that moment a tall figure leaped from the shadows and confronted the quivering musician.
A heavy hand fell upon his collar and he was almost jerked from his feet, half choked, half
paralysed with alarm. Not a word was spoken. Chase whirled the presumptuous suitor about until
he faced the gates to the garden. Then, with more force than he realised, he applied his boot
to the person of the offender--once, twice, thrice! The military jacket of the recipient of
these attentions was of the abbreviated European pattern and the trousers were skin tight.

The Princess started back with a cry of alarm--ay, terror. The onslaught was so sudden, so
powerless to avert, that it seemed like a visitation of wrath from above. She stared, wide-eyed
and unbelieving, upon the brief tragedy; she saw her tormentor hurled viciously toward the
gates and then, with new alarm, saw him pick himself up from the ground, writhing with pain
and anger. His sword flashed from its scabbard as, with a scream of rage, he dashed upon the
tall intruder. She saw Chase--even in the shadows she knew him to be the American--she saw
Chase lightly leap aside, avoiding the thrust for his heart. Then, as if he were playing with
a child, he wrested the weapon from the conductor's hand, snapped the blade in two pieces and
threw them off into the bushes.

"Skip!" was his only word. It was a command that no one in Rapp-Thorberg ever had heard before.

"You shall pay for this!" screamed the conductor, tugging at his collar. "Scoundrel! Dog! Beast!
What do you mean! Murderer! Robber! Assassin!"

"You know what I mean, you little shrimp!" roared Chase. "Skip! Don't hang around here a second
longer or I'll--" and he took a threatening step toward his adversary. The latter was discreet,
if not actually a coward. He turned tail and ran twenty paces or more in heartbreaking time;
then, realising that he was not pursued, stopped and shook his fist at his assailant.

"Come, Genevra," he gasped, but she remained as if rooted to the spot. He waited an instant,
and then walked rapidly away in the direction of the palace, his back as straight as a ramrod,
but his legs a trifle unsteady. The trio watched him for a full minute, speech-bound now that
the deed was done and the consequences were to be considered. Baggs grasped Chase by the shoulder,
shook him and exclaimed, when it was too late:

"You blooming ass, do you know what you've done?"

"The da--miserable cur was annoying the Princess," muttered Chase, straightening his cuffs,
vaguely realising that he had interfered too hastily.

"Confound it, man, he's the chap she's going to marry."

"Marry?" gasped Chase.

"The hereditary prince of Brabetz--Karl Brabetz."

"Good Lord!"

"You must have known."

"How the dev--Of course I didn't know," groaned Chase. "But hang it all, man, he was annoying
her. She was flouting him for it. She said she despised him. I don't understand----"

The Princess came forward into the light of the path. There was a quaint little wrinkle of
mirth about her lips, which trembled nevertheless, but her eyes were full of solicitude.

"I'm sorry, sir," she began nervously. "You have made a serious mistake. But," she added frankly,
holding out her hand to him, "you meant to defend me. I thank you."

Chase bowed low over her hand, too bewildered to speak. Baggs was pulling at his mustache and
looking nervously in the direction which the Prince had taken.

"He'll be back here with the guard," he muttered.

"He will go to my father," said Genevra, her voice trembling. "He will be very angry. I am
sorry, indeed, that you should have witnessed our--our scene. Of course, you could not have
known who he was----"

"I thought he was a--but in any event, your highness, he was annoying you," supplemented Chase
eagerly.

"You will forgive me if I've caused you even greater, graver annoyance. What can I do to set
the matter right? I can explain my error to the Duke. He'll understand--"

"Alas, he will not understand. He does not even understand me," she said meaningly. "Oh, I'm
so sorry. It may--it will mean trouble for you." There was a catch in her voice.

"I'll fight him," murmured Chase, wiping his brow.

"Deuce take it, man, he won't fight you," said Baggs. "He's a prince, you know. He can't, you
know. It's a beastly mess."

"Perhaps--perhaps you'd better go at once," said the Princess, rather pathetically. "My father
will not overlook the indignity to--to my--to his future son-in-law. I am afraid he may take
extreme measures. Believe me, I understand why you did it and I--again I thank you. I am not
angry with you, yet you will understand that I cannot condone your kind fault."

"Forgive me," muttered the hapless Chase.

"It would not be proper in me to say that I could bless you for what you have done," she said,
so naïvely that he lifted his eyes to hers and let his heart escape heavenward.

"The whole world will call me a bungling, stupid ass for not knowing who he was," said Chase,
with a wretched smile.

Her face brightened after a moment, and an entrancing smile broke around her lips.

"If I were you, I'd never confess that I did not know who he was," she said. "Let the world
think that you did know. It will not laugh, then. If you can trust your friend to keep the
secret, I am sure you can trust me to do the same."

Again Chase was speechless--this time with joy. She would shield him from ridicule!

"And now, please go! It were better if you went at once. I am afraid the affair will not end
with to-night. It grieves me to feel that I may be the unhappy cause of misfortune to you."

"No misfortune can appal me now," murmured he gallantly. Then came the revolting realisation
that she was to wed the little musician. The thought burst from his lips before he could prevent:
"I don't believe you want to marry him. He is the Duke's choice. You--"

"And I am the Duke's daughter," she said steadily, a touch of hauteur in her voice. "Good-night.
Good-bye. I am not sorry that it has happened."

She turned and left them, walking swiftly among the trees. A moment later her voice came from
the shadows, quick and pleading.

"Hasten," she called softly. "They are coming. I can see them."

Baggs grasped Chase by the arm and hurried him through the gate, past the unsuspecting sentry.
They did not know that the Princess, upon meeting the soldiers, told them that the two men
had gone toward the palace instead of out into the city streets. It gave them half an hour's start.

"It's a devil of a mess," sighed Baggs, when they were far from the walls. "The Duke may have
you jugged, and it would serve you jolly well right."

"Now, see here, Baggs, none of that," growled Chase. "You'd have done the same thing if you
hadn't been brought up to fall on your face before royalty. It will cost me my job here, but
I'm glad I did it. Understand?"

"I'm sure it will cost you the job if nothing else. You'll be relieved before to-morrow night,
my word for it. That day was not meditation and contemplation of the beauties natural
for the sole purpose of his trip. Had other more practical. Was she going to pick strawberries
wild, the very delicate that wood produced in abundance, and also take florida some blade of
grass, called waldmeister, which puts on perfume and Conquer and season the Maitrank, delicious
drink of that season and that he liked very much the Countess widow.

Waldmeister looking strawberries, Poldy had strayed from the castle and deep in the the forest, far
more than it used to. Thus came to be in place very lonely and wild where the thick broken trees
that were crowded with dense foliage, had a small lagoon. On the opposite side of that to which he
had approached Poldy, stood a dark and dilapidated tower. All the land surrounding the lake was
damp and vicious. Fumes malarious birds were scared away from that place. Birds not glad with their
songs and chirps as they did elsewhere in the same forest. Almost sunk roots in water here and
there were cattails and reeds in crowded clumps. On the face of the sleeping water, then curled
not the slightest breath of wind, extended the blade and the round green and broad leaves of
water lily, whose white flowers stood in the still air. Foot of Poldy sank into the grass had grown
very high. Every time fixed in the soil one of her little feet, frightened frogs in the grass
were hidden, and gave great jumping, splashing in stagnant water. The noise was the water, Frogs
duck it was the only thing that interrupted the strange silence that reigned around.

Poldy, by hasty and curious instinct, he walked by the banks of the lagoon to the site where
the tower looked like.

And being already very close to him, suddenly saw an object that although she was not shy,
I was a nervous shaking, for being so suddenly and when least suspicious. He was a portly white
stork, who left behind the tower, and without the slightest fear, but gentle and serene, it
came up with step Poldy slow, grave and majestic. Occasionally shook his head from side to
side with a graceful coquetry. When was closer, took a few hops, extended and long wings flapped
as a sign of joy, and repeatedly opening and closing the red peak, was a son very similar to
castanets. Turning then to walk more slowly and with some hesitation, as if respect him contained,
kept walking toward the bird pilgrim Poldy, and stopping every two or three steps as if waiting
for the permission to get to it.

Poldy understood the intention of the bird, not fear anything because
he was considered harmless, but missed that show him as loving and
as resolutely as long strides as he strode spandrels came to her as
if she were an old friend.

Would you have known and dealt before and did not remember then? Poldy sought in vain by all
the deepest and forgotten breast of his memory some vague memory of that knowledge and treatment.
Was not the least trace even the slightest trace if any have ever had. The same could be seen
than ever stork Poldy had met because, although could not quite express in any human language
but only castañetazos resonant with its peak, slow of gait, their frequent stops and each
of the looks that way to her brown eyes seemed to mean interrogation Poldy and supplication, as
if to say: charming Countess, may I see I close and treats? There was also in a stork do not
know what the exotic: a weird way of being, well similar to that note in a traveler of distinction,
came from very remote countries, with whom by that stumble and struck up a conversation without
thinking or intending, and only because of sudden and mysterious sympathy.

Poldy undoubtedly sympathized with the stork. I fell in grace and earned him the will to compliance
respectful and friendly, so the stork gently looked at her. Admitted, back in himself, knew the
stork treat people as they deserved, and that naturally was endowed
with exquisite good manners, but because parenting is not learned,
but rather should ease called fine or refined touch of world.

Finally, Poldy acquiesced to treat the stork without anyone present and not knowing who was
or how many quarters did, she gave also to her a few steps, and reached out and pleasing in his
head touched.

The stork was left was stroking and satisfaction and caresses those noble taste caused him, squinting
eyelids as if asleep and gently rubbing the long neck on the cover of the lovely lady. It
passed the hand down the neck of a stork, lowering it to the width crop, all covered with abundant
and white feathers. Then he realized with surprise that the stork had there, suspended ribbon
very subtle, a small piece of silk fabric, which flexible and crowded, was very little bulk.

Poldy
could not resist the curiosity or the desire to seize defeat from that pledge. Soon So broke
the tie bar through the garment hung the bird's neck and was with the garment in her hands.

It is not known if frightened or angry then the stork which might consider stripping, removed the
lady suddenly, spread his wings, flew, soared into the air and finally out of sight.

Poldy was embarrassed as if he had committed a theft villain, but in the end, dismissed the scruples,
thinking that she had had no intention of staying with the garment and was ready to return the
bird if the bird came back to it and somehow the claim.

Poldy unraveled after more than a meter of ribbon was wound into the fabric of silk, giving form
of ball, and unwrapped the cloth, which was the color of apricots,
was written in it with very black ink in strange lines and several
tiny letters.

She looked at them and the Remiro, but in vain, because no one knew. Though he knew and exploited
moderately disciple of his brother, Count Henry, could not quite intently to determine which
alphabet language and those symbols and words belonged. He suspected, however, that registration
silk fabric were in Sanskrit, a language he studied assiduously and enjoyment of his brother Count
Henry.

III

Poldy the castle again spurred by curiosity and eager to decipher
his brother he what the web said.

Lunch with very good appetite, and then, while the widowed Countess asleep after lunch, as was his
custom, he went to the library with her brother Henry told him about the bird mosquito, taught
him the silk fabric and begged translate what he had written it.

Count Henry confessed that he was well versed in the language to translate
Valmiki suddenly the verses, as undoubtedly were verses there were
in the fabric, but requested time and promised her sister have an
exact translation of all on the same day.

Indeed, just hours after the count sought Poldy, took her back to
the library, and triumphantly showed him the verses and translated.

-
Do not know what to think, he told his sister.

Sometimes I imagine that the stork came from India, where spent the winter, and the verses
are the work of a Brahman, or Nabob Rajah well illustrated, and sometimes,
I suspect that it may be a learned countryman of ours who wrote the
verses and who hung the cloth on the neck of the stork to tease the
one who find.

- What end - Poldy said, was to propose a countryman
of ours with that cheating?

I not yet know the verses, but I assured that the author lives on the banks of the Indus or the
Ganges, and not on the Rhine or the Danube. Let's see ... read.

- You'll see and you'll find some inspiration in the verses more European
than Asian.

Compositions are three: two very short, and one of these two seems modeled on four lines of
the Prologue in Heaven of Faust. The coincidence is unlikely. And, although not impossible,
I find strange and suspicious that a brahman read Goethe and imitate
him.

- Come on, read the verses without further preface.

- The verses
say:

I wish to heaven the brightest star; I call this land their
fullest; And no love near or distant love Touched my heart quieted.

-
True, "said Poldy, the verses are very similar to those of Goethe,
unless the poet self says what it says Mephistopheles of Faust.

-
Well, hear these others who have not stopped metaphysics which Christian
mysticism by Tauler style of the teacher or Eckart:

Without wings
and without light the human mind In vain in search of the ideal is
released; But the will goes boasts The immensity of eternal hope.

-
That's true, - said Poldy, and the same can happen to an Indian, a
Christian.

In India since ancient times, so I've heard, mystics as deep as Germany. Moreover, in all countries,
must have been thinkers and poets to imagine and express that could penetrate and come up with
a love that never goes up and enters the rationale by subtle and large it is.

- I will not argue.

I agree that a Brahman may have composed the song that just tell
translated.

    Maybe I in the translation I have rendered
    a European look in the original does
    not. Hear now the final composition.
    The poet falls in it lifts mystical, and folds and human as any earthly
love with love and sensuality inspire women.

Something, however, is still in the composition of the mysticism of others. It's like a small
piece of the Song of Songs, or better say the Gita-govinda, whose
compliments, tenderness and material descriptions can be interpreted
by otherworldly style and transcendent.

The composition in this case also has a uniqueness that has neither the erotic romance of the
Hebrews and the Indians.

    Crishna Solomon saw, heard and touched
    beautiful and love your friends, but
    this poet or touch or see, or
    hear his, if not the imagination with vague uncertain, and in such
a manner that it can live on this planet in another very remote, and
the same may be our contemporary, to be born the last forty centuries
or even be waiting another forty in the world of ideas, before it
reaches the day of his incarnation and its occurrence among people
of our caste.

- Very curious is what you tell me, but it is not original
or new.

It's so hard to be new and original! Do not you love Elena Faust, who lived 2500 years before
he was born? Is there no Arabic or Persian tale, where a Muslim prince, who lived two hundred
or three hundred years after Muhammad, is madly in love with some queen or princess of Serendib
or Sheba, which flourished in the days of Solomon and was Sulamita rival?

- All that is true, but even more vague and indeterminate Mrs. thoughts of our Indian poet. The
Muslim prince in love with the rival Sulamita had found and admired the portrait of her father's
treasure, while there is no picture or is there any indication through which to glimpse or have any
idea or notion of his lady, the author of the verses I have translated. Hear them carefully.

-
I'm all ears.

Count Henry read thus:

Where are you hiding, my beauty, they do not get to see my eyes, As I dream of my fantasy Full
of grace, free of anger?

Come do the Kokila sweet gurgles Do pay the lotus aroma in the wind Come see my longing wish And understand
you my understanding.

You're not dreaming, you really are; Do not pretend these spells soul, Although most beautiful
women Yours will call the immortals.

In the pure light in your eyes Love lights your darts gold and your lips are sealed ballot box
Source of their pleasure and treasure.

Ora reside off the ground Ora show up in another age, For the three worlds in rapid flight I will
go looking for you.

Bright pearl, though hidden In the deep sea are, I find you know,
it's my life For me des exalted prize.

    Poldy heard the verses carefully
    and discussed them with his brother
    and even tried with apparent
    critical coldness, giving some merit and pointing out their many
flaws.

    What she concealed and not revealed
    or his brother or anyone, was the swarm
    of assumptions and dreams verses
    that arose in his imagination.

    Already contained writing them
    an elegant look young brahman, not
    far from his magnificent villa,
    in green bower, on the fertile banks the Kausikí, as composed in
his own palace Ayosia Crown Prince of Kashmir or any other of the
kingdoms and countries that described the ancient epics.

    But the author of the verses
    was a contemporary of her and looked
    her end by the disease and passion
    that tormented him.

    Loved or rather wanted to love,
    nothing worth seeing around
    him of his love, and looking away,
    blindly and without guidance the rare and precious thing that deserves
to be loved.

    
    
    In the depths of his soul Poldy pondered
    much on this, and wove and wove countless stories, their feeling
beautiful, with which she delighted in secret without telling anyone,
not even the old governess Justina who was his confidant.

IV

Engolfadísimo in their studies, Count Henry had no will or understanding but to continuance. In
other matters of life was always subject to the understanding and Poldy will of her sister, whom he
loved greatly. Prohibiole it to speak with one of the meeting of the stork, the verses and the
translation, and Count Henry obeyed and I stopped everything.

Poldy did not want his mother to know of anything.

The Dowager Countess was a lady endowed a positive spirit so prosaically, would certainly have
destroyed all his speeches the poetic assumptions pipe Poldy had risen and that in no way wanted
She nobody tear down.

The widowed countess and Zaheri also accused his daughter frequently, calling it extravagant
of dreaming, hallucinations, a staunch enemy of the wise and reasonable, and reckless unattainable
ideal persecuting and absurd. If the widow Countess of thought and ignoring Poldy the success
of the stork, did not they think and what would not say if he knew?

Poldy not return, then, to talk about him or his own brother, as if his own brother ignore,
or as if she had the pretense that he forgot.

Alone, then, and freely, Poldy be included as they desire, the author
of three poems.

Already assumed in Varanasi, and Delhi, and Calcutta, and elsewhere in India, but always noble, young
and beautiful, and Kshatriya or Brahmin, if not a prince.

The unknown character suffered a mental illness similar to Poldy.

Symptoms were contempt and disgust for his surroundings, and the vague desire for a good remote,
dimly layout and a half vanished in the mists and vapors of a thousand
dreams.

Poldy discarded by vulgar and foolish belief of his brother, a German
scholar had Sanskrit verses composed for entertainment or to show
their expertise.

For her there was no no doubt: the verses were the work of a distinguished young gentleman from
India.

Poldy We often went further in his bold imagination. She did not believe that the bird mosquito
that had appeared to him had the slightest resemblance or the swan Leda nor the white bull of the
brave daughter of Agenor, but might not be an instrument of the stork
a great sage, perhaps a genius or a fairy, whose powerful suggestions
had obeyed coming to visit?

Who will dare to limit the extent possible? If we were not to believe only what we understand,
only we would believe anything.

Sometimes came to the memory of Poldy a story of the Thousand and One Nights, and delighted to boast
that what she had spent some resemblance to the story. In the more elevated regions air, met
one night a fairy and a genie who were flying in opposite directions.

There he talked and confided that the fairy came to visit and leave the most beautiful sleep Prince
was in the world, and that genius, from the other end of the earth, came to contemplate and admire
a beautiful princess also asleep in his bed virgin there in the recesses, elegant and perfumed
boudoir of his magnificent palace. Genie and Fairy proposed that Prince and Princess to meet,
fall in love and marry, and the media to turn to do up the mess of that history. Poldy, while smoothing
much the supernatural, and modesty, for the skepticism that is so characteristic of the century
This, he suspected that everything that happened could very well be quite naturally something
that coincided with the oriental tale.

She had heard and had even read recent works dealing with Theosophy, which is • In India, some
scholars called Mahatma, which force and regular introinspección Honduras examination in itself
be able to acquire great and rare find secrets of nature, by virtue
of which perform actions that look miraculous, but are not.

Would not it be perhaps the author of three poetry mahatmas any such business that Poldy had
guessed, he had interviewed mentally, he had taken with her and • to communicate their views
and send infuse his lines without much surprise, half had used the bird naturalísimo mosquito,
which takes proper condition, nothing of witchcraft and other evil arts, to spend the summer in
Austria and winter India?

Thus mused Poldy, forging and disrupting fantastic cases. It was like a child that entertains
in keeping up with care and good balance and complicated high house of cards, then knocks
him for fun and games raising others.

In sum, Poldy not know what to expect or why their minds. No statement itself what Castles
raised by it was the most liked. What I could not fail to recognize was that the task of lifting
and • demolish the no small delight.

V

Poldy sought solitude then more than ever.

In discussions with his brother, his mother and his nurse, appeared distracted. And We often
avoiding any company, would give solitary walks through the forest.

Even ordinary comparison as well as can be surmised and envisaged that the most CONSCIOUS to find a sweet
candy is good, and guessed that insurance Poldy again to find the stork on the banks of the
pond where he found the first time. There was such abundance of frogs, lizards, frogs, toads
and other vermin, which was the land of promise that bird to mosquito, which, by their large size
and the extraordinary length their wings, covered in extreme shiny and black feathers, knowing
that was left male. What Poldy not manage to determine was whether the bird was married or single.
Poldy he was always seen as just did not understand their language, not asked if he was married,
and in Spain we often ask the parrot, which respond to the question.

It was also a mystery to Poldy where the stork nesting.

He saw the shores of the lagoon. The bird castañetazos greeted with loud, hopping and flapping
wings, which open covering more than two feet.

It was one of a kind notabilísimo individual merit.

He seemed pensive and thoughtful, but very good things should be quiet. Poldy waiting in vain
and even fantasized about the miracle of the stork speak, but the
eloquence of the stork ever went beyond the usual castañetazos and
some grunts and whistles out of tune, which were all his language.

With this, nothing could be made clear.

The stork was very friendly and very gentle with the young Countess.

No grudge against him because would have taken the fabric of the verses. Rubbed his head and
neck from the garment the pretty lady, and seemed to like that she pass a hand through his long
neck and wings, preening him.

These silent conference, which took place two or three times a week, lasted little and we can say
that they were very entertaining. Moreover, the stork had the instinct not to bore, and conferences
always ended quickly and in a sharp, darting suddenly in the air, tracing graceful spirals in
the serene flight of the day out of sight.

He spent the spring, spent the summer, came after the fall, as always, and finally began to appear
in winter. Poldy then had inklings that the stork was about to emigrate and return no doubt the
dream palace, to the eastern city, the temple or the fifth, where the author dwelt verses.

Irresistible was the temptation he felt to write. Why was there not to do so by style prudent and
decent that did not commit?

Poldy also thought that although it was not unlikely that by operation of the jinn or Fairy or
under mahaturas science, the author of the verses have been achieved clear vision of it, would
never be more than enough to send a good picture of her in photography.

In our times does not mean this very decided favor. Any subject, the most plebeian of fatal, could
be bought for a florin Poldy portrait, exhibited in the windows of many Shops in Vienna, among
the beauties of the court and the theater, including princesses, actresses and dancers. If
any ragamuffin Poldy compatriot could have its image, what audacity or impropriety which would
have to send it through to the wading birds poet incognito I could not but be a prince, nawab,
Brahmin or Kshatriya, back in the land of Rama and Sita, Nal and Damayanti?
Given these considerations and others in the same order, which are
omitted here to avoid prolixity, Poldy, wrote a long letter, very
thin paper to bulge slightly, took a picture yours, without board,
on which picture was very pretty in her low-cut and elegant suit dance,
included it in an envelope with strong backing fabric closed and sealed
with wax; wrote above: the unknown Indian poet, pierced with a punch
the card, ran a strong the tape through the hole, and thus prepared
everything, hung it around his neck as if the stork was the insignia
of Commander of any illustrious Order. After regaining
his breath to some extent, the obliging Mr. Bowles, now being among what he called the lower
classes, surreptitiously removed the tight-fitting red jacket, and proceeded to give the inquisitive
lawyer's clerk all the late news of the island.

The inhabitants of Japat, standing upon their rights as part owners of the mines and as prospective
heirs to the entire fortune of Messrs. Skaggs and Wyckholme, had been prompt to protect themselves
in a legal sense. They had leagued themselves together as one interest and had engaged the
services of eminent solicitors in London, who were to represent them in the final settlement
of the estate. London was to be the battle ground in the coming conflict. A committee of three
had journeyed to England to put the matter in the hands of these lawyers and were now returning
to the island with a representative of the firm, who was coming out to stand guard, so to speak.
Von Blitz, the German superintendent, was the master mind in the native contingent. It was
he who planned and developed the course of action. The absent committee was composed of Ben
Adi, Abdallah Ben Sabbat and Rasula, the Aratat lawyer. They were truly wise men from the East--old,
shrewd, crafty and begotten of Mahomet.

The mines continued to be operated as usual, pending the arrival of the executors' representative,
who, as we know, was now on the ground in the person of Thomas Saunders. The fact that he also
served as legal adviser to Lady Deppingham was not of sufficient moment to disturb the arrangements
on either side. Every one realised that he could have no opportunity to exercise a prejudice,
if he dared to have one. Saunders blinked his eyes nervously when Bowles made this pointed
observation.

As for the American heir, Robert Browne, he had not yet arrived. He was coming by steamer from
the west, according to report, and was probably on the Boswell, Sumatra to Madagascar, due
off Aratat in two or three days. Mr. Bowles jocosely inferred that it should be a very happy
family at the château, with the English and American heirs ever ready to heave things at one
another, regardless of propriety or the glassware.

"The islanders," said Mr. Bowles, lighting a cigarette, "it looks to me, have all the best
of the situation. They get the property whether they marry or not, while the original beneficiaries
have to marry each other or get off the island at the end of the year. Most of the islanders
have got three or four wives already. I daresay the legators took that into consideration when
they devised the will. Von Blitz, the German, has three and is talking of another."

"You mean to say that they can have as many wives as they choose?" demanded Saunders, wrinkling
his brow.

"Yes, just so long as they don't choose anybody else's."

Saunders was buried in thought for a long time, then he exclaimed, unconsciously aloud:

"My word!"

"Eh?" queried Bowles, arousing himself.

"I didn't say anything," retorted Saunders, looking up into the tree tops.

In the course of an hour--a soft, sleepy hour, too, despite the wondrous novelty of the scene
and the situation--the travellers came into view of the now famous château. Spicy and
provocative to volunteer to dance, luring overseas, are elusive and severe almost insolent, when
they do understand that your kindness has been misinterpreted. The gypsy is a faithful married
by religion and tradition of the race, the maiden is chaste by reflection, personal interest
and also race, and education. The Gypsies are never mixed with Spanish but to speculate, his
home is purely gypsy, and has never known a child of that race among women lost to Granada.
Although all speak Spanish, very wrong in general, not served in their exclusive relationships but
their own language, corrupted in each country, it is true, by the influence of European languages
​​that dominate necessarily.

Deeply impressed by the spectacle of the population within which everything is exceptional
- type human, dress, language, customs, habits and culture, - climbed to the height which holds
the vast edifice of the Seminar, a little below the chapel of Monte Santo. San Blas is the character
of this historic site, which houses very underground chapels Weird, and the day of the holy mass
pilgrimages are very popular. They say that there were found the bodies of Saint Cecilia and
his eleven martyrs, burned at time of Nero. It seems he was looking for metal mines that came with the
treasure by chance taking care to chance a curious epigram. In fact, St Cecilio and his companions
were a mine, because their charred remains were left, through faith, very good profits ... to chaplains
Monte Santo.

After five days of residence in that city as highly curious historical as needed. We found the
most interesting of Granada (for which I am forced to omit many details) and we walked away with
a feeling of sadness because that country seduce the heart and spirit. It is a treasure of memories
and poetry for all travelers; but for me it was also an object of deep inner emotions. From the heights
of the Alhambra I had spent five days with my country, evoking all the epics of its history
since the time of Columbus, Balboa, and Jimenez de Quesada.

Unfortunately, the care that should lead Malaga, Santa Fe and Loja, crossing the Sierra-Nevada,
started almost at midnight, and the shadows were so thick on those nights of spring rains, the
whole countryside we had to be veiled by the darkness. So crossed the entire length of the
"Vega" does not enjoy its wonderful landscape around, no power even looking at the overall structure
of the historic Santa Fe, a town that only has decayed Today about 4,000 people, sitting in
orchards and farms to the left bank of Jenil, like an old matron
who works quietly with his spinning wheel, the shade of orange a patio.

A

lack of sleep and landscapes within the coach gave us a bizarre distraction. We went with a German
Jew, young, strong, regular tea, smug, glib and a singular greed, who had been staying in
Granada in the same background as us. He complained bitterly famines had happened, the poor quality
of food (and that Our inn was the most famous of Granada) and he was right, because it is against
all humanity Spanish hoteliers that keep the traveler with its abominable chickpea dishes cooked. The
German had been curious all his pockets full of oranges and biscuits and in three hours, until
the dream he gave up, did not suspend its gastronomic exercises.

His hobby was trying to pass for a tourist English original, which had known all the world
(with the exception of some continents), who loved pretty girls, had great achievements of French,
Italian, Circassian, Spanish, etc., and was preparing to take a pleasure trip to Australia,
no doubt to continue his life Polynesia Caesar of the daughters of Eve. But the fact is that
asking details about the counties that had visited was no reason at all, explaining his ignorance
with a thousand subterfuges. Although he spoke English well, his speech in French and Spanish
German accent revealed the southern as his face revealed to the Israelite. We had our reasons for
believing that industrial race belonged to another friend of diligence, that commission Hordel
talking to their pockets, without prejudice to the elbows. Among the many benefits go by rail
and telegraph should be counted as first-order quasi-abolition the commis-voyageur, or commission,
the most obnoxious pest that can give a traveler. The part-telegraph and steam wagon, in fact, make
it almost unnecessary to send these locusts other markets to seek placement for manufacturing
products. In Italy, Spain and other European countries where the railways are still in the beginning,
the commission emissary France, England, Belgium or Germany is firm or with any consistency. So
is that in Barcelona, ​​Valencia and the Andalusian cities I had to find that plague all hotels or
inns.

The commission (especially as neither the French) is able to discredit
his country, wherever you want, with their own resources.

Ignorant, conceited, rude, swindler often charlatan to cause headaches, he is seen everywhere
teasing those who have the candor to admit their company. One exception to this rule is a prodigy.
The more than forty in Spain I met a bear. Our German Jew began to succumb, as to their nationality,
then, for fun, we made many charges against Great Britain, and Germany was declared for not
accepting responsibility. I pretended that I had strong opinions and said recalcitrant I was a horror to
admit the Jewish Rothschild in the British Parliament, because the breed damn did not deserve
any consideration. Then he sprang like a spring agitated, angry and terrible, as if his race
had to speak for his mouth and confessed Israelite a candor that we tore them all an explosion
of laughter. I did not have, difficulty in convincing that I did not have any religious or racial
concerns, and to his own as estimated one of the most beautiful, tough and aggressive in the
world and one of those who have contributed more, by the power of work and the feeling of brotherhood,
the progress of civilization. Run and embarrassed the former English tourist, leaned back in
his corner and three oranges chow and six biscuits, by way of compensation, with him more reflective.
The next day, in Malaga, we caught him red-handed in the hotel, featuring a merchant all his
collection of cards with samples of goods, and although it was held in the female conquests,
cosmopolitan confessed that his trips had been made not by an English tourist but a Robust
German Jew, rake HB & C meetings and Manchester.

It was six o'clock when we came to Loja, after the first cut soft throats or modifications of
the Sierra-Nevada.

Except in Switzerland, I have not seen anything more picturesque, small class of lovely landscapes
freshness, which the box surrounding to Loja. It is a fairly large city, because it has more
than 17.000 inhabitants, and lies about 45 km from Granada and 56 from Malaga. Its agricultural
products are the general Andalusia, but is notable for its manufacture of cloth and paper.
It is the country of water par excellence, delicious and very abundant. Not only has over
two hundred public sources and individuals, but have now arrived at centuries in his term,
more than 5,000 watersheds. The population, ugly, uneven, graceless, sad and quite dirty, makes
a strange contrast with the alderredor. Situated on two hills separated by Jenil, with most of its
mass on the left bank, the dominant almost everywhere the buttresses of the Sierra, and offers
a delightful view to a large portion of the Vega of Granada.

The sun was just beginning to produce on their gorgeous snowy peaks
reverberations; a broad belt of fog encircled the neighboring hills
in half, leaving open the eminence with its huge granite boulders,
and low hills, and valleys Jenil deep and winding of fresh, green,
flowers, studded with mills and factories exquisite gardens and rows
and groups of white poplars and other trees upright.

The earth seemed to rejoice, greeting the sun and his admirable Andalusian sky with a concert
voluptuous harmonies and delicate aromas evaporate.

After Loja, the road continues to rise and snails among well-cultivated beautiful hills towards
the heart of the Sierra. The Colombian traveler who travels the roads that cut Spanish Sierras,
can not but smile with disdain, remembering that in Colombia there are lazy doomsayers who believe
the Andes have been condemned to solitary confinement to the inhabitants
of many mountainous regions of the New World.

Seeing what has been achieved, in point of railways and highways in regions of the Alps, the Pyrenees
and the mountains of Spain, I said: "No, the Andes, far from being obstacles are the most wonderful
gift God has given to New World, and the people who can use them will be the happiest of the earth.
Willing and money all regions of the Andes are likely to admit when roads and railways may need
social movement. "

In the midst of this ocean of naked mountains, hills whimsical, high plains and small and huge
chasms, run without any risk of prosecution by an excellent road. It seems at every moment,
to turn a sharp corner, which is the measure to save a cliff jumping from one hill to another, depending
on the terrain is rugged.

This anda surprise surprise. I have not seen anything so romantic, so beautiful and sad as harshly
those low plains of the Sierra-Nevada, which seem to make dried lake beds many centuries. Upon
entering the premises of one of these flats, rooms Vastis Emerald pavement between colossal
walls of iron and tin, it is believed that no output way forward. The vegetation is a poetic
sadness, because the whole floor is covered planting of wheat and other cereals or legumes,
on whose carpet stand out Here and there, huge, dark and majestic oaks of vegetable life these
calls in Spain oaks, whose branches produce cork. Those trees are very numerous there, as
in all alti-plains of the Spanish Sierras, and are fairly traded considerable. Nature, providing
that the man invented the bottle as a second belly to keep the wine, has inhabited the land of cork
trees in the upper plains to the slopes where it grows the generous vine. If all the oaks
that grow in the world occur even for corks! ...

At around these simple paintings of vegetables are raised in complete great circle granite rocks and
ink appearance but unique, all rugged, rough, wrinkled and huge cracks - some ashen and dull
pewter color other with a twinkle sad some black or brown, - presented the most curious play
of light and shade, as the inclination the sun, and as rounded tops, and in extravagant peaks,
truncated cones or needles, or in rows that mimic jagged circular
and great iron crowns.

On top of these bare heads and those moles in surprising ways without any visible stratification,
perpendicularly to excel in the distance, like lamps of silver and diamond earrings sky, soaring
domes and broken backs of the snow in the Sierra. What is of supreme beauty, which the artist invites
contemplation and defies description ....

Sales had happened (and certainly "would not remember" a certain tortilla made with rancid oil,
as used in Spain, which lasted between the palate and fauces more a week), had left the center
of the Sierra, and we began to descend from an immense nursery of mountains and hills prodigiously
complicated and intertwined. The region of the oaks was over, and crossed the skirts and the
inclined planes where is a very extensive cultivation of the vine.

Is like saying we were going neck bottle (cork) to his belly drunk (grapes) understands how great
will be the producing vineyards in the province of Malaga, almost entirely by their wrinkled
terrain bare mountains, just to see that even in the most outstanding and the deep ridges and
slopes more rugged the land is covered with vineyards.

Suddenly, a high back, bend, the horizon is opened before our eyes, without any eminence interrupt
the vast panorama. Amazing beauty that awaited us! In the valley bottom, the coast and the
city of Malaga, later the shimmering desert Mediterranean narrowed by two continents, the distance,
visible only with the help of telescope, the blue mountains of Africa, vague, choppy and confusing,
to the coast Tetuan, and all covered by a beautiful clear blue sky,
lighted by an almost tropical sun: the magnificent African sun!

What is contemplated, admiring with supreme fit and then rapture deep, but does not describe
.... I felt my heart beat on a hill de los Andes, in the presence of a plain-ocean ....

* * * * *

Under the artistic point of view and the intellectual, Málaga is a city of little interest. They
reign only industry and commerce, and historical memories hardly reveal in relation to the
time of the Arabs or Moors, in the general structure of the city, in some traditional arts, but many
curious features of little importance, especially in sea ​​and sky.

       Indeed, the sea and sky suggest Málaga every moment in Africa whose
atmosphere, bathing with hot flashes the Spanish coast, is as a link
junction between the two semi-continents wave from the top of Rocky
Mountain above the Mediterranean.

The valley that lies Malaga, framed between the sea and the foothills of the Sierra, is very small.
Spread on the coast in a circle as 20 kilometers, extends towards the west and between strings
of hills, in a very narrow valley that cut through the Gundalhorce, small river that cuts the plain
at a short distance from the city, and Guadalmedina that divides, running laboriously through
a bed of fine sand, and it lends variable to excessive flooding by depression or wide beaches along
its banks.

The plain is a beautiful garden view from the mountains overlooking to Malaga. They not only
grow a thousand trees orchards, vineyards and all the lavish productions of the fertile Andalusia,
but harvest Cotton, snuff and much cochineal, grows and prospers sugar cane, and one might think
which is planted on a piece of African soil.

East side of the coast extends in a narrow strip of curb lines and whimsical in the direction
of Velez-Malaga and Motril. North tightening effect and dominate the complicated buttresses of the
Sierra-Nevada, and west stand thousand luminaries that bristle all the land, towards Cadiz, the
line of the Sierra de Ronda, where the most amazing geological formations as well as considerable
social curiosities.

Ronda has a reputation as a curious little town in the province of Malaga. If this has a population
of 451.406 inhabitants (the seventh in Spain in that order), its active capital is 94.289, including
their Egido. Malaga is one of the great centers of liberalism in Spain, including Madrid,
Barcelona, Seville, Cadiz and all the cities social movement. Wherever trade industry political action
or give rise to a strong social life, popular sentiment bends towards freedom and progress.
Conservatism does not have its strengths in Spain but in cities where there is immobility
and silence.

The Malaga alderredor gardens contain many very beautiful and valuable estates where cottages are
of considerable elegance, and some artistic wealth. In the Guadalhorce valley there are beautiful
sea of ​​orange and lemon plantations that make remember the beauties of the Huerta de Valencia.
Consumption is incredible which makes Europe the fruit or acidic
and aromatic essences of those forests of lemon trees.

At around of orchards, gardens and farms and factories in the valley, succeed in arenas curds
cut hills of vineyards. The richness and variety of these vineyards is amazing (Compared to
the difficult terrain), because not only is a huge production white wine, red and orange,
more or less aromatic and pleasant, whose fame is universal, but get plenty of those famous
special grapes for the preparation of delicious raisins. I must say, in deference to the popular
adage, I had trouble drinking good and get good wine grapes in Malaga.

Almost a third of the city consists of new construction, in general splendid very attractive for
its many balconies and shutters or cabinets flown, green or blue, their marble floors, large iron railings,
its cheerful and its rooftop lookouts Oriental style. In the new part the streets are spacious
and clean, abundant large hotels and cafés, one can see the convenience and taste, and is not
true likeness material with the inner cities of Spain.

Alameda's famous street is a splendid promenade where abundance of giant trees, fountains, statues
and granite canapés, including two rows of elegant buildings. Likewise, the buildings that dominate
the coming spring or port, relevance, progress of taste and vitality of the maritime cities.

But the bulk of the city, old building, is an incomprehensible maze of streets at first, dark,
very narrow, usually dirty, getting some to a degree incredibly filthy. There whimsical buildings,
extravagant, Barbados any weighting, semi-Moorish, half-Spanish, whose stirring constantly moles in
tightness and squeezing without pity, a large and active population
of more heterogeneous types.

The elegant and beautiful Malaga (women are very nice there in large numbers) is spent visiting the rich
stores and fashion shops and sights, shaking with a grace inimitable the range of ebony or sandalwood
pearl ornaments and rich with graceful landscapes and seduces by the grace of his walk, but
worth rid. And no less striking for their accents and mischievous air of ... minor Malaga,
- type that mediates between the manola and grisette - dressed brightly colored cloth, bare-headed,
lively and provocative, winking Eye dangerous ability, brown and pink, plump and tempting as one of
those clusters pink ripe grapes that produce the country.

At the same time on the streets teeming swarms of workers coarse and brutal, dresses with abandonment
of seafarers of all nations, toiling commission to hunt for customers of traders worried delivered exclusively
to the fever of speculation, soldiers striped yellow, tolerably idle, road and making a racket
sutler of all the devils, some semi-nice people and bullfighters matamoros style, and urchins
all ages always abounding in the market towns, with its accompanying
large ragged beggars are inevitable in almost all Spanish cities.

Malaga The great movement not only from its strong production of wines and other items of agriculture,
significant values. Malaga is by its position and nature terrain of the province and the neighboring
port bound for Granada, Jaen and part in the regions of Cordoba, and populations that take the
side of Ronda and the Vélez-Málaga. Apart from these reasons to centralize a vast trade, Malaga
has a industrial production or manufacturing of some importance and
well mixed.

There are made silks and many red wines, some sugar, various tissues, hats, casting machines
and objects, soaps, pickles, pottery, etc.., - is working a thousand objects of art, as beautiful
fans, busts delicate plaster and other curiosities of hand - and made a huge fruit preparation
preserved and distillation. Manchester is, without doubt, the second commercial city of Spain,
Barcelona just because he is superior.

Malaga, so rich in industries, trade and strong as wine production [4] is a poor city monuments. The
only one that deserves attention, yet surrounded by sad ending and dwindling streets, now the cathedral.


"We are quite settled, Mr. Browne, and very well satisfied," she said pointedly, turning red
with a fresh touch of anger.

"I trust you have not taken the rooms at this end."

"We have. We are occupying them." She arose and started away, Deppingham hesitating between
his duty to her and the personal longing to pull Browne's nose.

"I'm sorry," said Browne. "We were warned not to take them. They are said to be unbearable
when the hot winds come in October."

"What's that?" demanded Deppingham.

"The book of instruction and description which we have secured sets all that out," said the
other. "Mr. Britt, my attorney, had his stenographer take it all down in Bombay. It's our private
Baedeker, you see. We called on the Bombay agent for the Skaggs-Wyckholme Company. He lived
with them in this house for ten months. No one ever slept in this end of the building. It's
strange that the servants didn't warn you."

"The da--the confounded servants left us yesterday before we came--every mother's son of 'em.
There isn't a servant on the place."

"What? You don't mean it?"

"Are you coming?" called Lady Deppingham from the doorway.

"At once, my dear," replied Deppingham, shuffling uneasily. "By Jove, we're in a pretty mess,
don't you know. No servants, no food, no----"

"Wait a minute, please," interrupted Browne. "I say, Britt, come here a moment, will you? Lord
Deppingham says the servants have struck."

The American lawyer, a chubby, red-faced man of forty, with clear grey eyes and a stubby mustache,
whistled soulfully.

"What's the trouble? Cut their wages?" he asked.

"Wages? My good man, we've never laid eyes on 'em," said Deppingham, drawing himself up.

"I'll see what I can do, Mr. Browne. Got to have cooks, eh, Lord Deppingham?" Without waiting
for an answer he dashed off. His lordship observing that his wife had disappeared, followed
Browne to the balustrade, overlooking the upper terrace. The native carriers were leaving the
grounds, when Britt's shrill whistle brought them to a standstill. No word of the ensuing conversation
reached the ears of the two white men on the balcony, but the pantomime was most entertaining.

Britt's stocky figure advanced to the very heart of the group. It was quite evident that his
opening sentences were listened to impassively. Then, all at once, the natives began to gesticulate
furiously and to shake their heads. Whereupon Britt pounded the palm of his left hand with
an emphatic right fist, occasionally pointing over his shoulder with a stubborn thumb. At last,
the argument dwindled down to a force of two--Britt and a tall, sallow Mohammedan. For two
minutes they harangued each other and then the native gave up in despair. The lawyer waved
a triumphant hand to his friends and then climbed into one of the litters, to be borne off
in the direction of the town.

"He'll have the servants back at work before two o'clock," said Browne calmly. Deppingham was
transfixed with astonishment.

"How--how the devil do you--does he bring 'em to time like that?" he murmured. He afterward
said that if he had had Saunders there at that humiliating moment he would have kicked him.

"They're afraid of the American battleship," said Browne.

"But where is the American battleship?" demanded Deppingham, looking wildly to sea.

"They understand that there will be one here in a day or two if we need it," said Browne with
a sly grin. "That's the bluff we've worked." He looked around for his wife, and, finding that
she had gone inside, politely waved his hand to the Englishman and followed.

At three o'clock, Britt returned with the recalcitrant servants--or at least the "pick" of
them, as he termed the score he had chosen from the hundred or more. He seemed to have an Aladdin-like
effect over the horde. It did not appear to depress him in the least that from among the personal
effects of more than one peeped the ominous blade of a kris, or the clutch of a great revolver.
He waved his hand and snapped his fingers and they herded into the servants' wing, from which
in a twinkling they emerged ready to take up their old duties. They were not a liveried lot,
but they were swift and capable.

Calmly taking Lord Deppingham and his following into his confidence, he said, in reply to their
indignant remonstrances, later on in the day:

"I know that an American man-o'-war hasn't any right to fire upon British possessions, but
you just keep quiet and let well enough alone. These fellows believe that the Americans can
shoot straighter and with less pity than any other set of people on earth. If they ever find
out the truth, we won't be able to control 'em a minute. It won't hurt you to let 'em believe
that we can blow the Island off the map in half a day, and they won't believe you if you tell
'em anything to the contrary. They just simply know that I can send wireless messages and that
a cruiser would be out there to-morrow if necessary, pegging away at these green hills with
cannon balls so big that there wouldn't be anything left but the horizon in an hour or two.
You let me do the talking. I've got 'em bluffed and I'll keep 'em that way. Look at that! See
those fellows getting ready to wash the front windows? They don't need it, I'll confess, but
it makes conversation in the servants' hall."

Over in the gorgeous west wing, Lord Deppingham later on tried to convince his sulky little
wife that the Americans were an amazing lot, after all. Bromley tapped at the door.

"Tea is served in the hanging garden, my lady," she announced. Her mistress looked up in surprise,
red-eyed and a bit dishevelled.

"The--the what?"

"It's a very pretty place just outside the rooms of the American lady and gentleman, my lady.
It's on the shady side and quite under the shelf of the mountain. There's a very cool breeze
all the time, they say, from the caverns."

Deppingham glanced at the sun-baked window ledges of their own rooms and swore softly.

"Ask some one to bring the tea things in here, Bromley," she said sternly, her piquant face
as hard and set as it could possibly be--which, as a matter of fact, was not noticeably adamantine.
"Besides, I want to give some orders. We must have system here, not Americanisms."

"Very well, my lady."

After she had retired Deppingham was so unwise as to run his finger around the inside of his
collar and utter the lamentation:

"By Jove, Aggie, it is hot in these rooms." She transfixed him with a stare.

"I find it delightfully cool, George." She called him George only when it was impossible to
call him just what she wanted to.

The tea things did not come in; in their stead came pretty Mrs. Browne. She stood in the doorway,
a pleading sincere smile on her face.

"Won't you please join Mr. Browne and me in that dear little garden? It's so cool up there
and it must be dreadfully warm here. Really, you should move at once into Mr. Wyckholme's old
apartments across the court from ours. They are splendid. But, now do come and have tea with us."

Whether it was the English love of tea or the American girl's method of making it, I do not
know, but I am able to record the fact that Lord and Lady Deppingham hesitated ever so briefly
and--fell.

"Extraordinary, Browne," said Deppingham, half an hour later. "What wonders you chaps can perform."

"Ho, ho!" laughed Browne. "We only strive to land on our feet, that's all. Another cigarette,
Lady Deppingham?"

"Thank you. They are delicious. Where do you get them, Mr. Browne?"

"From the housekeeper. Your grandfather brought them over from London. My grandfather stored
them away."

CHAPTER VIII

THE MAN FROM BRODNEY'S

It was quite forty-eight hours before the Deppinghams surrendered to the Brownes. They were
obliged to humbly admit, in the seclusion of their own councils, that it was to the obnoxious
but energetic Britt that they owed their present and ever-growing comfort.

It is said that Mr. Saunders learned more law of a useful and purposeful character during his
first week of consultation with Britt than he could have dreamed that the statutes of England
contained. Britt's brain was a whirlpool of suggestions, tricks, subterfuges and--yes, witticisms--that
Saunders never even pretended to appreciate, although he was obliging enough to laugh at the
right time quite as often as at the wrong. "He talks about what Dan Webster said, how Dan Voorhees
could handle a jury, why Abe Lincoln and Andy Jackson were so--" Saunders would begin in a
dazzled sort of way.

"Mr. Saunders, will you be good enough to ask Bromley to take Pong out for a walk?" her ladyship
would interrupt languidly, and Saunders would descend to the requirements of his position.

Late in the afternoon of the day following the advent of the Brownes, Lord and Lady Deppingham
were laboriously fanning themselves in the midst of their stifling Marie Antoinette elegance.

"By Jove, Aggie, it's too beastly hot here for words," growled he for the hundredth time. "I
think we'd better move into your grandfather's rooms."

"Now, Deppy, don't let the Brownes talk you into everything they suggest," she complained,
determined to be stubborn to the end. "They know entirely too much about the place already;
please don't let them know you as intimately."

"That's all very good, my dear, but you know quite as well as I that we made a frightful mistake
in choosing these rooms. It is cooler on that side of the house. I'm not too proud to be comfortable,
don't you know. Have you had a look at your grandfather's rooms?"

She was silent for a long time, pondering. "No, I haven't, Deppy, but I don't mind going over
there now with you--just for a look. We can do it without letting them see us, you know."

Just as they were ready to depart stealthily for the distant wing, a servant came up to their
rooms with a note from Mrs. Browne. It was an invitation to join the Americans at dinner that
evening in the grand banquet hall. Across the bottom of Mrs. Browne's formal little note, her
husband had jauntily scrawled: "Just to see how small we'll feel in a ninety by seventy dining-room"
Lady Deppingham flushed and her eyes glittered as she handed the note to her husband.

"Rubbish!" she exclaimed. Paying no heed to the wistful look in his eyes or to the appealing
shuffle of his foot, she sent back a dignified little reply to the effect that "A previous
engagement would prevent, etc." The polite lie made it necessary for them to venture forth
at dinner time to eat their solitary meal of sardines and wafers in the grove below. The menu
was limited to almost nothing because Deppy refused to fill his pockets with "tinned things
and biscuit."

The next day they moved into the west wing, and that evening they had the Brownes to dine with
them in the banquet hall. Deppingham awoke in the middle of the night with violent cramps in
his stomach. He suffered in silence for a long time, but, the pain growing steadily worse,
his stoicism gave way to alarm. A sudden thought broke in upon him, and with a shout that was
almost a shriek he called for Antoine. The valet found him groaning and in a cold perspiration.

"Don't say a word to Lady Deppingham," he grunted, sitting up in bed and gazing wildly at the
ceiling, "but I've been poisoned. The demmed servants--ouch!--don't you know! Might have known.
Silly ass! See what I mean? Get something for me--quick!"

For two hours Antoine applied hot water bags and soothing syrups, and his master, far from
dying as he continually prophesied, dropped off into a peaceful sleep.

The next morning Deppingham, fully convinced that the native servants had tried to poison him,
inquired of his wife if she had felt the alarming symptoms. She confessed to a violent headache,
but laid it to the champagne. Later on, the rather haggard victim approached Browne with subtle
inquiries. Browne also had a headache, but said he wasn't surprised. Fifteen minutes later,
Deppingham, taking the bit in his quivering mouth, unconditionally discharged the entire force
of native servants. He was still in a cold perspiration when he sent Saunders to tell his wife
what he had done and what a narrow escape all of them had had from the treacherous Moslems.

Of course, there was a great upheaval. Lady Agnes came tearing down to the servants' hall,
followed directly by the Brownes and Mr. Britt. The natives were ready to depart, considerably
nonplussed, but not a little relieved.

"Stop!" she cried. "Deppy, what are you doing? Discharging them after we've had such a time
getting them? Are you crazy?"

"They're a pack of snakes--I mean sneaks. They're assassins. They tried to poison every one
of us last--"

"Nonsense! You ate too much. Besides, what's the odds between being poisoned and being starved
to death? Where is Mr. Britt?" She gave a sharp cry of relief as Britt came dashing down the
corridor. "We must engage them all over again," she lamented, after explaining the situation.
"Stand in the door, Deppy, and don't let them out until Mr. Britt has talked with them," she
called to the disgraced nobleman.

"They won't stop for me," he muttered, looking at the half-dozen krises that were visible.

Britt smoothed the troubled waters with astonishing ease; the servants returned to their duties,
but not without grumbling and no end of savage glances, all of which were levelled at the luckless
Deppingham.

"By Jove, you'll see, sooner or later," he protested, like the schoolboy, almost ready to hope
that the servants would bear him out by doling out ample quantities of strychnine that very night.

"Why poison?" demanded Britt. "They've got knives and guns, haven't they?"

"My dear man, that would put them to no end of trouble, cleaning up after us," said Deppingham,
loftily.

The next day the horses were brought in from the valley, and the traps were put to immediate
use. A half-dozen excursions were planned by the now friendly beneficiaries; life on the island,
aside from certain legal restraints, began to take on the colour of a real holiday.

Two lawyers, each clever in his own way, were watching every move with the faithfulness of
brooding hens. Both realised, of course, that the great fight would take place in England;
they were simply active as outposts in the battle of wits. They posed amiably as common allies
in the fight to keep the islanders from securing a single point of vantage during the year.

"If they hadn't been in such a hurry to get married," Britt would lament.

"Do you know, I don't believe a man should marry before he's thirty, a woman twenty-six," Saunders
would observe in return.

"You're right, Saunders. I agree with you. I was married twice before I was thirty," reflected
Britt on one occasion.

"Ah," sympathised Saunders. "You left a wife at home, then?"

"Two of 'em," said Britt, puffing dreamily. "But they are other men's wives now." Saunders
was half an hour grasping the fact that Britt had been twice divorced.

Meanwhile, it may be well to depict the situation from the enemy's point of view--the enemy
being the islanders as a unit. They were prepared to abide by the terms of the will so long
as it remained clear to them that fair treatment came from the opposing interests. Rasula,
the Aratat lawyer, in mass meeting, had discussed the document. They understood its requirements
and its restrictions; they knew, by this time, that there was small chance of the original
beneficiaries coming into the property under the provisions. 

It would, finally, sick cruel that I crashed against the good Don Braulio, who was so honest,
so noble, so great, and whose only fault, if fault was, arose from the tender love and indulgence
well thought that he looked at his wife.

Best, therefore, is that we refrain from declaiming and moralizing,
waiting to see clear what comes out of this.

For now, we can say is that the reputation of Dona Beatriz was lost;
grave evil, but not entirely hopeless, as it was a slander that is
suspicious or stated, given the assumption that had no foundation.

Truth is that to remedy the evil was necessary and that patients knew what first terrible condition
for the lover Don Braulio, who, haunted by his vague and melancholy fancies, did not notice anything
was actually happening around own, and whose heart was overwhelmed both sensed only loss of the
love of Beatrice there did not seem to have strength enough to endure
the rude shock of certainty and carrying out his hunch.

XIII

I confess, with characteristic candor that is me, I've been tempted to paint the Conde de Alhedín
as a seductive evil, demonic and profound in its schemes and plans
war.

"In this way - I told myself when these things were happening and I was not even in the secret
- if Dona Beatriz has indeed been seduced, his fall will have some excuse, and, if it has been,
its success will be more glorious and memorable. "

Nothing, however, that disgusts me more than lying. Not even like to appeal to her to write a story.
And as the Count of Alhedín exists in reality and I know him and
treatment, it makes me guilty about presenting different than it is,
even wrapping in the veil of a pseudonym.

The Count of Alhedín, to the credit of the truth, nothing more than a good boy, if we the judge
with the relaxed criteria used in the world.

The Count of Alhedín is so far from being a Don Juan Tenorio as far heaven on earth. Has never
employed deceit and violence against unmarried or married.

I also assured that, if it was self-examination, however severe and scrupulous was before the era
of our history, would never come to persuade himself that he had seducing any woman.

Finding easy and abundant harvest of laurels between the seductive and seduced and had no Count
the bad idea to lose to any candid and innocent maiden, or to disturb the holy peace of a
marriage as well-matched model, exemplary and loving.

If in some cases recognizing the Earl had been mutual seduction, in the most, with notable comfort
of his mind and no prejudice to his vanity short, the Count did not see his own person but to
the suffering, that is, to the truly seduced.

Not one of his conquests had until then hints of tragic character. No Conde accused of having
started from the front one the bright halo of holiness and purity.

There was no woman who had fallen for him a sacred pedestal where
there been before, but never touch the mud of the earth, without in
the least tarnish the clear whiteness of the hem of her robe.

Or the Count was one of many, and not first in a series more or less long and varied, or, if
such had been the first the devil himself had cleared before the
roads so smooth and maliciously, that could be fed give and forfeit
what he had to lose, and only Condesito his heart to conscience and
a young philosopher in the fable, for yielding to the specious argument
fragility These verses state:

Take it for his life, and consider
someone else to eat if you do not want.

When I stop to think about a heroic virtue in a thought occurs to me that I am truly sorry enough.

True,
there are still, and will continue to secure civil and international wars, revolutions violent,
pests, diseases and a host of other plagues that God is willing and able to prove and exercise
our patience. True that we are all doomed to die, and not bad guy death, especially when viewed
from the summit of life, in full enjoyment of the youth and vigor of our spring healthy, but
in normal circumstances in life bourgeois political order and today lives, it is difficult
if not impossible, to appear or give in any case subject of heroism, of extraordinary suffering,
of Fortitude sublime or otherwise under great and amazing, not to appear or be given as a reason
or occasion in another subject or several, a case of vice or malice or ferocity not least out
of all reasonable time. For there to be a regular there must needs be Carthaginians to have wise
quiet drink hemlock judges must needs be wicked who hate their discretions and wisdom to convict
him drink, and to have martyrs who leave skin or to let roast simmered in a gridiron must needs
be so hardened tyrants and heinous crimes, being ordered around skinning
and roasting they did not lend to worship idols or other nonsense
like that.

Now I do not know if fortunately or unfortunately, but it's true that evil and mischievous superlative
degree and extreme as they become more rare each day, and therefore the rough path of virtue and
macadamized paving will, without those who have under in that grade
achieved almost never occasion to wear it are forced to keep dormant
in the depths of their hearts.

I would not, therefore, alter the truth of my story and go against this law of human progress
becoming a monster Alhedín Count.

Let's stick to the truth.

The Condesito, as I said already, was a great guy, light, fun friend, very tempted to laugh,
but better than bread.

His mother, the Dowager Countess, idolized him and pampered him forever, but the pampering, far
to pervert the good natures, make them better and sweeter the gall to make syrup.

For Condesito was easy to be good. Unenviable. All smiled. We have said that Hard had fifteen thousand
of income, which was of good family and was in perfect health. There was no physical exercise
that did not shine, great rider, accurate pistol shooter, agile and
skillful in fencing and valsador airy and graceful.

His jokes were laughed at, his discreteos concluded. Everyone believed him capable of the most
serious business if he could someday be used them their time and abilities.

Earl lived with his mother, but in a huge mansion, which enjoyed full independence. So I got friends
and visitors of various kinds without his mother, or by chance, had to stumble and give them
understood anything.

The Countess, however, not unaware of the frivolous and rather dissipated life of his son.
La Condesa she longed to leave her, to marry now, and that, done everything a parent, mixed in the
politics of his country and was a statesman.

The Countess was a lady in every sense of the word and is perfectly
suited old.

Was closer to fifty than forty, while retaining more than a few remnants of once admired her beauty.
He dressed in severe elegance and remarkable simplicity. Was without affectation or religious
fanaticism. And he was very much against what they call the spirit century, but regretted that
the Spanish aristocracy lacked class spirit and was, therefore, unable to be counted as a political
element, though, considered isolation, not enough worth less individuals that belong to it
many of those who clamber to the highest positions and rule and govern,
starting from the humblest parts of the social sphere.

Not so disunited Countess walked with the times we live in, because clearly perceived that
the invasion and rise of commoners came from far behind clever and it was not the day. The
aristocracy, she thought, was slumbering in a golden bondage centuries, and that content or
resigned with vain distinctions aulic, leaving the influence and control to Cisneros, the
Pérez and Vázquez, being Spain a democracy monkish, and winning now
be mesocracia something of a layman.

La Condesa, at least, not that we go out accountable for their judgments,
and explained, a synthetic way, the history of his homeland.

It was from here that, in pure noble and ancient hatred of democracy, the Countess was almost
liberal and progressive.

Preferred to valid domain of a bully, whom the monarch pulled out
of nowhere, this command that classes called conservative, something
which came through it, although mixed with unstable imitation of the
aristocracy of good law and the furious barrage of unjustified improvised
notables.

In sum, and this is what you will, the Countess wanted her son to not consume the youth all in courtship
and entertainment, but that it should be formal and pro man, and
added to the new luster inherited nobility and coats of arms with
the acquired talent and other personal items.

We know that the Earl had spent the summer without leaving Madrid. The countess had not gone either.

We
are in the month of October.

Almost all the elegant ladies who went to Biarritz, a Spa and other points, and had made a visit
to Paris, were already back from the summer expedition. They came, as was natural, full of finery and
workmanship of Worth, the Ferrière, Alexandre and other artists;
gala they were about to wear during the winter.

Among these ladies expeditionary and reinstalled and near their dollars are telling the cute
Adela Condesito premium.

He was goodness personified, without bordering on stupid, and was also sole heir, hoping to be
richer than its cousin when they inherit. The widowed Countess she
wanted to marry her son.

Had tried several times to induce the claim. He had always been in vain.

Now, three or four days after arriving Adela, Countess called one morning to his son to his room,
between eleven and one before lunch, and took with him the next important conference.

XIV

      After the usual affectionate greetings and a brief preamble on trivial
matters, Mother and son sitting in comfortable chairs and facing it
from him, the Countess went on as follows:

- Well you know, Ricardo
mine, that I've been lenient with you.

So I lost all moral force, and only if I am with authority and courage to give advice.

- The kindness of you to me can not and should diminish the respect
and veneration I look at you, mother - said Ricardo -.

And to advise me not to send you have authority, and must have value. I will obey you if you are
in my power to obey.

- I do not intend to obey me, but I listen and let yourself be persuaded by my arguments. It's
a shame to waste your time as any light-headed lad, without dedicating yourself to anything seriously.
To a certain age is forgivable that way of life, but now you're older and you ought to serve
your home and show your worth ... Why do not you choose MP? Why do not interrogate on your own
opinions, you forge your political persuasion, you trace your line of conduct and get into
public life? Are you going to grow old,

In cynical and despicable being single

as he said, perhaps fed up sharply, the austere and satirical poet, doing nothing but woo light
women? Why do not you marry a good woman, your class, and you form a family?

This barrage of questions answered with plenty of rest the Condesito:

- All the excitement of you, dear mother, are so good, I would without hesitation the if it were
up to me to follow. Unfortunately, this does not depend on me. To be a deputy, it is important
something to be proposed, and I all I propose. I declare yourself: mind a political opinions
and draw a line of conduct. But in vain I ask myself: I do not know what I dread what I believe.
Almost all parties seem to me well and I look bad. I do not know what join. Do I have to invent
me a new party when there are so many? Furthermore, it is not so easy to invent that game. For
their faith, just occurs to me another article of faith that constitutional decision of the year
1812, that all Spanish are fair and beneficial. Otherwise I do not care. I love freedom as a
means, and progress as an end but I love in a vague and lofty and comprehensive, which provides in
practice a thousand interpretations. So on the one hand amoldaría me almost every game means
accepting its principles, and on the other side would be unruly or undisciplined in every game,
because its leading figures I am not happy. In short: I notice that I lack a vocation for politics.
I am most purpose for contemplation to action. Believe me, I would obnoxiously; desluciría
me if I metiese a republic. Why do we have to be so heavy all actors drama, which lasts forever
without ever reaching the end? Is it not enough that a convicted to be a spectator? Look, mother,
I'm tired of attending this drama, that never ends which is always the same, where tangles of entanglements,
changing decorations, and entry and exit of people, almost all do wrong, and in which there is
no beginning and no argument purpose, nor word nor thought. Imagine
yourself, for if I get tired of being a mere spectator, spectator
inattentive and distracted, how I tired if you complain a role and
trying to represent. Undeceive you: politics is a tedious job, which
only must exercise those without money or position, and need to acquire
them, but I, I have my flow, I can and should be more useful to my
country and myself watching this flow, and improving and increasing
public wealth, not adding one more individual to the number disproportionate
and those who are fighting the portfolios, the full powers and general
directions. I'm so skeptical, you miss to believe in the beliefs of
others. It seems to me that most consistent are often the least sincere,
that they are consistent by dint of being stubborn. Adopt an opinion,
as they could have adopted another, without faith and charity, and
and are always for to say that they do their role, and because the
end is easier to play a role I say the same thing, whatever they may
be circumstances, which no other paper which say many different things,
depending on amount may from time to time not only to the private
good or singular, but the public good. With this reflection I am inclined
to forgive the apostasy; but as my mind is a perpetual contradiction,
reflect something else and then condemn hard on apostates and fickle.

"That's what he told you to say, isn't it?" demanded Britt angrily. "Confounded his impudence!
Rooms to rent!"

That evening he dragged the reluctant Saunders into the privacy of the hanging garden, and
deliberately interrupted the game of bridge which was going on. If Deppingham had any intention
to resent the intrusion of the solicitors, he was forestalled by the startling announcement
of Mr. Britt, who seldom stood on ceremony where duty was concerned.

"Ladies and gentlemen," said Mr. Britt, calmly dropping into a chair near by, "this place is
full of spies."

"Spies!" cried four voices in unison. Mr. Saunders nodded a plaintive apology.

"Yes, sir, every native servant here is a spy. That's what the Enemy was here for to-day. I've
analysed the situation and I'm right. Ain't I, Mr. Saunders? Of course, I am. He came here
to tell 'em what to do and how to report our affairs to him. See? Well, there you are. We've
simply got to be careful what we do and say in their presence. Leave 'em to me. Just be careful,
that's all."

"I don't intend to be watched by a band of sneaks--" began Lord Deppingham loftily.

"You can't help yourself," interrupted Britt.

"I'll discharge every demmed one of them, that's--"

"Leave 'em to me--leave 'em to me," exclaimed Britt impatiently. His lordship stiffened but
could find no words for instant use. "Now let me tell you something. This lawyer of theirs
is a smooth party. He's here to look out for their interests and they know it. It's not to
their interest to assassinate you or to do any open dirty work. He is too clever for that.
I've found out from Mr. Bowles just what the fellow has done since he landed, three days ago.
He has gone over all of the company's accounts, in the office and at the mines, to see that
we, as agents for the executors, haven't put up any job to mulct the natives out of their share
of the profits. He has organised the whole population into a sort of constabulary to protect
itself against any shrewd move we may contemplate. Moreover, he's getting the evidence of everybody
to prove that Skaggs and Wyckholme were men of sound mind up to the hour of their death. He
has the depositions of agents and dealers in Bombay, Aden, Suez and three or four European
cities, all along that line. He goes over the day's business at the bank as often as we do
as agents for the executors. He knows just how many rubies and sapphires were washed out yesterday,
and how much they weigh. It's our business, as your agents, to scrape up everything as far
back as we can go to prove that the old chaps were mentally off their base when they drew up
that agreement and will. I think we've got a shade the best of it, even though the will looks
good. The impulse that prompted it was a crazy one in the first place." He hesitated a moment
and then went on carefully. "Of course, if we can prove that insanity has always run through
the two families it--"

"Good Lord!" gasped Browne nervously.

"--it would be a great help. If we can show that you and Mrs.--er--Lady Deppingham have queer
spells occasionally, it--"

"Not for all the islands in the world," cried Lady Deppingham. "The idea! Queer spells! See
here, Mr. Britt, if I have any queer spells to speak of, I won't have them treated publicly.
If Lord Deppingham can afford to overlook them, I daresay I can, also, even though it costs
me the inheritance to do so. Please be good enough to leave me out of the insanity dodge, as
you Americans call it."

"Madam, God alone provides that part of your inheritance--" began Britt insistently, fearing
that he was losing fair ground.

"Then leave it for God to discover. I'll not be a party to it. It's utter nonsense," she cried
scathingly.

"Rubbish!" asserted Mr. Saunders boldly.

"What?" exclaimed Britt, turning upon Saunders so abruptly that the little man jumped, and
immediately began to readjust his necktie. "What's that? Look here; it's our only hope--the
insanity dodge, I mean. They've got to show in an English court that Skaggs and--"

"Let them show what they please about Skaggs," interrupted Bobby Browne, "but, confound you,
I can't have any one saying that I'm subject to fits or spells or whatever you choose to call
'em. I don't have 'em, but even if I did, I'd have 'em privately, not for the benefit of the
public."

"Is it necessary to make my husband insane in order to establish the fact that his grandfather
was not of sound mind?" queried pretty Mrs. Browne, with her calmest Boston inflection.

"It depends on your husband," said Britt coolly. "If he sticks at anything which may help us
to break that will, he's certainly insane. That's all I've got to say about it."

"Well, I'm hanged if I'll pose as an insane man," roared Browne.

"Mr. Saunders hasn't asked me to be insane, have you, Mr. Saunders?" asked Lady Agnes in her
sweetest, scorn.

"I don't apprehend--" began Saunders nervously.

"Saunders," said Britt, calculatingly and evenly, "next thing we'll have to begin hunting for
insanity in your family. We haven't heard anything from you on this little point, Lord Deppingham."

"I don't know anything about Mr. Saunders's family," said Deppingham stiffly. Britt looked
at him for a moment, puzzled and uncertain. Then he gave a short, hopeless laugh and said,
under his breath:

"Holy smoke!"

He immediately altered the course of the discussion and harked back to his original declaration
that spies abounded in the château. When he finally called the conference adjourned and prepared
to depart, he calmly turned to the stenographer.

"Did you get all this down, Miss Pelham?"

"Yes, Mr. Britt."

"Good!" Then he went away, leaving the quartette unconsciously depressed by the emphasis he
placed upon that single word.

The next day but one, it was announced that the Enemy had moved into the bungalow. Signs of
activity about the rambling place could be made out from the hanging garden at the château.
It was necessary, however, to employ the binoculars in the rather close watch that was kept
by the interested aristocrats below. From time to time the grey, blue or white-clad figure
of the Enemy could be seen directing the operations of the natives who were engaged in rehabilitating
Wyckholme's "nest."

The château was now under the very eye of the Enemy.

CHAPTER X

THE AMERICAN BAR

"You're wanted at the 'phone, Mr. Britt," said Miss Pelham. It was late in the evening a day
or two afterward. Britt went into the booth. He was not in there long, but when he came out
he found that Miss Pelham had disappeared. The coincidence was significant; Mr. Saunders was
also missing from his seat on the window-sill at the far end of the long corridor. Britt looked
his disgust, and muttered something characteristic. Having no one near with whom he could communicate,
he boldly set off for the hanging garden, where Deppingham had installed the long-idle roulette
paraphernalia. The quartette were placing prospective rubies and sapphires on the board, using
gun-wads in lieu of the real article.

Britt's stocky figure came down through the maze of halls, across the vine-covered bridge and
into the midst of a transaction which involved perhaps a hundred thousand pounds in rubies.

"Say," he said, without ceremony, "the Enemy's in trouble. Bowles just telephoned. There's
a lot of excitement in the town. I don't know what to make of it."

"Then why the devil are you breaking in here with it?" growled Deppingham, who was growing
to hate Britt with an ardour that was unmanageable.

"This'll interest you, never fear. There's been a row between Von Blitz and the lawyer, and
the lawyer has unmercifully threshed Von Blitz. Good Lord, I'd like to have seen it, wouldn't
you, Browne? Say, he's all right, isn't he?"

"What was it all about?" demanded Browne. They, were now listening, all attention.

"It seems that Von Blitz is in the habit of licking his wives," said Britt. "Bowles was so
excited he could hardly talk. Count imagined understand him, respected him and would not abuse their
friendship even if it could. In this way, therefore recognizing the greater capacity Count to seduce
you in all other, less feared by the Conde seduction.

They were not those of like-minded coterie of Rosita.

No hatred, no desire to harm, by pure light and cheerful malice, whatever is supposed to assume,
based on the following data.

The count, which should have gone to Biarritz, had withdrawn its issuance and had spent in Madrid
throughout the summer.

Very often spoke in long Beatriz apart.

We knew that came to her house.

The Count was not known love, did not designate the scandalous chronicle, or society elegant, or between
people of the middle class, and between the dancers and actresses, no he had held captive in
their networks.

On the subject of much worth, so handsome and always lucky with women, were inexplicable this
solitude loving, if not some supposed hidden passion.

Passion therefore assumed.

And once granted, is also meant he could not but be reciprocated.

The lack of evidence that there was, the anger of the Count when they began to tease with Dona
Beatriz, their categorical denials and respect and consideration that was ceremoniously in public
this woman, all served only to be amazed at the wonderful friends
dissimulation of prudence and noble noble secret of that happy mortal.

Rosita, whom the Count all trusted him, he wanted not infrequently
find, secretly and to herself, the truth of the case.

The Count denied that there was no case Rosita that redound to the harm of Don Braulio, and showed
anger that she believed she had, and begged, and even demanded, to assuage such absurd rumors.

Unfortunately, it was not worth it to stop talking to Rosita Count relations Dona Beatriz, and
even that often argued loudly that there was no such relationship;
But quietly and hearing, Rosita used to do great acclaim chivalry
his friend, even she hoped her victory. This silence was heroic, this
disguise loudly demonstrated the vehemence and loftiness of a generous
affection.

- Comes to this end the Count - said Rosita - which will
be able to have a challenge with which disclosed there that Beatrice
loves him.

- E pur si muove - added the poet Arthur, if by chance
was there.

The rumor, supposition, slander, if it was slander, the
gossip, in short, if we call, moved quickly indeed portentous.

Just
stayed at the villa crowned man or woman inducted into the anecdotal
history of the Banquet in the history that Asmodeus and his followers
can not and should disclose in print, although it has thousand clandestine
oral chroniclers, which certainly did not give as firm and tight loop
linking the heart of Beatrix and Richard, so they called the Count
of Alhedín their intimate or those who wanted to spend for such airs. Despair reigned in the château; tears and
lamentations were no more effective than blasphemy. The major-domo, suave and deferential,
gravely informed Mr. Britt that they were leaving at the instigation of their legal adviser,
who had but that hour issued his instructions.

"I hope you are not forgetting what I said about the American gunboats," said Britt ponderously.

"Ah," said Baillo, with a cunning smile, "our man is also a great American. He can command
the gunboats, too, sahib. We have told him that you have the great power. He shows us that
he can call upon the English ships as well, for he comes last from London. He can have both,
while you have only one. Besides, he says you cannot send a message in the air, without the
wire, unless he give permission. He have a little machine that catch all the lightning in the
air and hold it till he reads the message. Our man is a great man--next to Mohammed."

Britt passed his hand over his brow, staggered by these statements. Gnawing at his stubby mustache,
he was compelled to stand by helplessly, while they crowded through the gates like a pack of
hounds at the call of the master. The deserters were gone; the deserted stood staring after
them with wonder in their eyes. Suddenly Britt laughed and clapped Deppingham on the back.

"Say, he's smoother than I thought. Most men would have been damned fools enough to say that
it was all poppy-cock about me sending wireless messages and calling out navies; but not he!
And that machine for tapping the air! Say, we'd better go slow with that fellow. If you say
so, I'll call him up and tell him we'll agree to his little old conference. What say to that,
Browne? And you, Deppy? Think we--"

"See here," roared Deppingham, red as a lobster, "I won't have you calling me Deppy, confound
your--"

"I'll take it all back, my lord. Slip of the tongue. Please overlook it. But, say, shall I
call him up on the 'phone and head off the strike?"

"Anything, Mr. Britt, to get back our servants," said Lady Deppingham, who had come up with
Mrs. Browne.

"I was just beginning to learn their names and to understand their English," lamented Mrs. Browne.

When Britt reappeared after a brief stay in the telephone booth he was perspiring freely, and
his face was redder, if possible, than ever before.

"What did he say?" demanded Mrs. Browne, consumed by curiosity. Britt fanned himself for a
moment before answering.

"He was very peremptory at first and very agreeable in the end, Mrs. Browne. I said we'd come
down at four-thirty. He asked me to bring some cigarettes. Say, he's a strenuous chap. He wouldn't
haggle for a second."

Britt and Saunders found the Enemy waiting for them under the awning in front of the bank.
He was sitting in a long canvas lounging chair, his feet stretched out, his hands clasped behind
his head. There was a far-away, discontented look in his eyes. A native was fanning him industriously
from behind. There was no uncertainty in their judgment of him; he looked a man from the top
of his head to the tips of his canvas shoes.

Every line of his long body indicated power, vitality, health. His lean, masterful face, with
its clear grey eyes (the suspicion of a sardonic smile in their depths), struck them at once
as that of a man who could and would do things in the very teeth of the dogs of war.

He arose quickly as they came under the awning. A frank, even joyous, smile now lighted his
face, a smile that meant more than either of them could have suspected. After Three
months turned to see, and was astonished to be very happy. Then lifted a beautiful statue of the
time with this label:

THE COMFORTER.

        

End of the two consoles.

* * * * *

HISTORY

OF VIAG

Of castigating,

WRITTEN BY HIMSELF.

In the city of Candia I came to the world the year 1600. My father was the governor, and I remember
a poet less than average, if only mildly unkempt style, called Azarria, made some bad verses in praise
of mine, where I described as a descendant quale Minos in a straight line, but then removed
the government having my father wrote further in I was the grandson of Pasiphae and her lover.
Mal sugeto this was indeed the Azarria, and most annoying villain in the entire island had.

Fifteen years had Quando my father sent me to study in Rome, and hoping I get to learn all the
truths, because until then I had been taught the opposite of truth, as is use in this world, from
China to the Alps.

Profondo Monsinor, who was recommended sugeto was rare, and one of the most terrible wise
in the world had. Quisome training in the categories of Aristotle, and almost puts me in their
Gitonas: good me free. Vi processions, exorcisms, and quite a few
robberies.

They said, though against all indeed, that the Siniora Olympia, very prudent lady, was selling
some things that are not usually sold. My age it all seemed very funny. It occurred to a maiden
lady, and very mild condition, Siniora called Fatel, fall in love with me: the reverend father
obsequiabanla Punalini and Aconiti the reverend father, a religious congregation no longer
exists, and put according to both of giving me her favors, but I was in danger of being poisoned
and excommunicated. Rome Dexe very pleased with the architecture of San Pedro.

Trip to France, where the seasoning Luis Reyna to the right, and the first thing I asked was for
my lunch if I wanted a piece of Marshal d'Ancre, who had roast people, and they sold it very cheap
to those who wanted to buy their meat to give away.

Was this a continuous state of civil war drama, sometimes for a place in the council, and other
two pages of theological disputes. More than sixty years to which they were these beautiful weather
stricken by this volcano which sometimes dimmed, and other was burning with violence, and that was
the liberties of the Gallican church.

Alas! dixe, this town is of natural quiet:? who has brought so of its kind? Chufletas says and
does degueello San Bartolome. iVenturoso time that you do not make more to say Donayre!

Go to England, where the same strife occasioned the same horrors. Some saints Catholics, for
the sake of the church, had given the king to fly with gunpowder, family real, and the entire
parliament, and rid England of both heretic. Taught me the site where had made to burn more
than five hundred of his subjects the blessed queen Maria, daughter Henrique eighth, and I assure
Hiberno cleric was much merit action towards God first because the burned were all English, and
secondly because I never took holy water, and believed in the cave of San Patricio, astounded
that they had not yet canonized to the Queen Mary, though he hoped that it would take to put
on the altars, so I had a little place Cardinal Nepos.

We went to Holland, where he hoped to find more peace, and a more phlegmatic people. Quando arrives
The Hague, were cutting the head off a venerable old man, and was the first bald head Barnevelt
minister. Moved with compassion, wonder what his crime was, and if he had been traitor the
state. Much worse than that, I answered a preacher of black cloak that is man believes it can attain
salvation by good works as well as by faith and well see if be credited such opinions, the republic
could not survive, so it is necessary stringent laws to curb such horrific scandals. Then sighing
a politician díxome deep: IHA, sir! This good weather will not last forever, this town is being
so jealous by mere chance: his true character is inclined to abominable
dogma of tolerance, and day will embrace, something that thrills me.

I however, until they reached the fatal time of forbearance and moderation, all haste dexe a
country where no happy tempered their severity, and I embarked for Spain.

Was the court in Seville, had reached the galleons, and the most beautiful season of the year
all breathed abundance and joy. After a street in orange and lemon trees, I saw an arena huge
covered terraces surrounded by beautiful texidos. Baxo a magnificent canopy were the king, queen,
infants and the princesses. In front of the August family still had a throne higher. Dixe, return
to one of my co-journey: As this seat is not reserved for God, for
those who can not be.

Heard a Spanish major these reckless words and I left side. I figured we were going to see
a tournament or a bullfight, when I went up the Grand Inquisitor to the throne, and from the blessed
the king and the people.

Then came an army of friars in rows of two by two, white, black, brown, shoes, barefoot, bearded,
beardless, with pointed hood, and no chapel was then the executioner; and behind, in the midst
of sheriffs and dukes, about forty people covered with sacks where had painted flames and devils.
Were these, or Jews who had insisted on not deny Moses, or Christians who had married with their Wives,
or had not been devoted Nuestra Senora de Atocha, or had not wanted to give money to the Capuchin
Fathers. Cantaronse a most devout prayers, and then were burned alive over a slow fire, all prisoners,
with qual it built the family remained very real.

That night, when I was going to get into bed, came two relatives of the Inquisition accompanied
by a round well-armed; dieronme a loving hug, and took me, without speaking word, a very cool
dungeon where he had a mat to lie down, and a superb crucifix. Here I was six weeks past the quale
sent me to ask please sir Inquisitor saw me with him. Estrechome in his arms with paternal
affection, and told me that I felt very sincerely that was so ill housed, but they were busy
all the quartos of that holy house, and hoped to give me more room again. Ask me later with no
less love, if he knew it was there.

Replied the holy man, no doubt for my sins. That is, my son:? But that sin? Speak without rezelo.
For more than kill me, could not manage, until the charity of the pious inquisitor gave me some
light. I remembered the end of my reckless words, and I was not convicted of more than Exercises,
discipline, and thirty thousand pieces of fine. They carried on to thank the Grand Inquisitor, sugeto
very friendly, I wonder what I had thought that her party.

Deliciosisima Rospondile was, and I went for my haste saliesemos companions to the country,
since it is so enjoyable. These had taken place to informed of all the great deeds delivered
again by the Spaniards for the sake of religion, and read the memories of the famous bishop
of Chiapas, where it has beheaded, burned or drowned idolatrous ten million Americans to convert
them to our holy faith. Well I think it weighs something the bishop, but rebaxe although half
of the victims, is still proved a prodigious zeal.

Atormentabame burning constantly traveling, and was determined to end my pilgrimage to Europe
for Turkey. Encamineme to this, with a firm purpose of not saying my mind again about the parties
he had seen. These Turks, dixe my companions, they're pagans have not received the holy baptism,
and certainly should be more cruel than the holy inquisitors callemonos then, while living among
Moros.

This would encourage, but was astonished to see many more temples in Turkey Christians on the island
where he was born, and even grown congregations friars, who dexaban in peace to pray to the Virgin
Mary, and Muhammad curse, some in Greek, some in Latin, and other in Armenian. iQue honest
people are the Turks! I exclaimed. The Greek and Latin Christians irreconcilable enemies in Constantinople,
and these slaves are chasing each other like dogs that bite in the street, and that separate suits their
masters. Then the grand vizier protected the Greeks: the Greek Patriarch, who had accused me
of dinner with the Latin patriarch, and was convicted of the divan a hundred sticks on the
soles of the feet, to rescue price five hundred sequins.

Hanged the next day the Grand Vizier, and the third his successor, which was not hung up there
a month, I condemn the same fine for having dinner with the patriarch Greek so that I saw in
the sad precision frequeentar not the Greek church or America. For comfort rented a beautiful
Circassian, who was the most affectionate person alone with a man, and the most devout at the
mosque. One night, the soft taste of love exclaimed giving me a hug: Allah, Ilah, Allah, are
the sacramental words of the Turks; I thought you were the love,
And I said with much love: Allah, Ilah, Allah.

Ha, he said the delay, Merciful God be praised, and you are Turkish. I replied that he thanked
the Lord that had given me strength to be, and I thought it was very happy. Morning came to get
circumcised the magnet, and I have difficulty putting, I proposed the cadi of the neighborhood,
a man of good composition, I would send impaled. Free at last my foreskin and my back for a
thousand sequins, and I escape running Persia, resolved not to hear Mass in Turkey Greek or Latin,
and if ever Allah, Ilah, Allah in the moments from the likes of love.

So get to Ispahan, I asked if it was the party of black sheep or ram white. Replied that the same
one that gave me another, which makes it tender. It must be noted that Persia was still divided
into two factions, the ram's black and white. I believe that by mocking both parties, and
I found myself in a terrible commitment to gate of the city, of whom I left paying a lot of sequins,
not having to do with sheep.

Do not stop to China, which comes with an interpreter, he said that I was the country where
could live happy and free: the Tatars had invaded it they placed all blood and fire, while the reverend
Jesuit Fathers on the one hand, and the reverend fathers Dominicans second, they said winning souls
for heaven, without anybody noticing. Have never been more zealous converters, are chasing
each other with the most fervent ardor, wrote Rome whole volumes of libel, and tried by a faithless
infidels and soul.

There was an awful row between them about how to do the courtesy, the Jesuits The Chinese wanted
to greet their parents to the fashion of China, and Dominicans it was the fashion of Rome. Sucediome
the Jesuits thought I was a Dominican, and they told him that His Majesty was Tartara spy of the Pope.
Commission gave the supreme council a first mandarin to arrest me, the qual command a sheriff,
who had at his command four brackets, which seized me, and I bound with all ceremony. Conduxeronme,
after hundred and forty prostrations, before His Majesty, I wonder if I was a spy of the Pope
and if it was true that the prince had to come in person to dethrone him. I replied that Pope
was a clergyman of more than seventy years, that his statements were far more than four thousand
miles those of his Sacred Majesty Tartaro-China, that his army was two thousand soldiers standing
guard with a para-waters not anyone dethroned, and I could sleep without His Majesty fear.
This was the least fatal adventure of my life, as did more than send me to Macao, where I embarked
for Europe.

It was necessary to caulk the ship off the coast of Golconda, and I take advantage of the opportunity
to see the court of the Aurengzeb, of whom there were then a thousand wonders. It was this monarch
in Delhi, and enjoy the taste imponderable façade to façade behold the day of the pompous ceremony
that received the heavenly gift that he sent the sheriff of Mecca, and was the broom which had swept
the holy house, the Kaaba, the Belho-Allah: broom is a symbol that alimpia all the filth of the soul.
It appears that did not need Aurengzeb, who was the male more Hindustan religious whole, since it
had beheaded one of his brothers, and given poison his father, and had destroyed a scaffold twenty Omra
rajas and many others, but That did not mean anything, and nobody talked about anything but
his devotion to whom is the of no other comparable, as it was not that of the sacred majesty
of the Most Serene Emperor Morocco, Mulcy Ishmael, qual a quantas
heads cut every Friday, after to prayer.

No article I word that I had chastened the voyages, and knew it was not competent judge to
adjudicate between these two August sovereign. I confess, however, that a French boy, who
locked, lacking the respect due to the emperors of India and Marruceos, saying with great imprudence
in Europe had very principles governing sovereign rightly his states, and also frequeentaban
churches, without taking life so their parents and siblings or cut the head of his vassals.
Our language interpreter realized expressions india impias of this boy. I trained with him on
other occasions I had happened, send saddle camels, and went with the French. Later I learned that
night had come and fetch him great Aurengzeb officials, and not having found more than the interpreter,
was this executed in the main square, without flattery confessed
all that was very fair palace his death.

Quedabame to see the Africa to enjoy all the delights of our hemisphere, and saw effect. Black
corsairs seized my vessel. My boss complaining bitterly, and ask
them for violating the laws of nations.

He was answered by Captain black: Your nose is long, and our flat,
your hair is smooth, and our wool curl, your skin is ashen-gray color
and our Ebony, therefore under the sacrosanct laws of nature, we must
always be enemies.

       At fairs You give us of Guinea, as if we were pack animals, to force
us to work in not that such tough tasks as ridiculous, to vergajazos
haceis we pierce the mountains to get a kind of yellow powder that
nothing is good, and that's no good, or very, a chive Egypt.

Quando So you find us, and we can only, I force them to labreis our
land, and if not you cut the noses and ears.

       

There was replicated as discrete reasoning.

I went to the tilth of a black woman by keep my ears and my nose,
and after a year I rescued.

Having seen all quanto good, beautiful and admirable in the earth, I determined to see no more
than my household gods: I married in my country, I was a cuckold, and saw it was the most pleasant condition
of human life.

End of the voyages of castigating.

* * * * *

MICROMEGAS,

Philosophical history.

* * * * *

CHAPTER ONE.

Journey of a denizen of the world of the star Sirius to the planet Saturn.

There was one of the planets revolving around the star called Sirius, a boy much talent, whom
I had the honor of meeting in the last journey he made to our paltry nest. Micromegas was his
name, a name that falls perfectly to all large, and had eight leagues high, I mean twenty-four thousand
five steps geometric calipers.

Some algebraist, caste people are very useful to the public, to take this step in my story pen,
and calculated that taking the Lord Don Micromegas, Sirius country dweller, from soles to occiput
twenty-four thousand feet, making one hundred and twenty thousand feet King, and we citizens
of the land going through the community of five feet, and taking our globe nine thousand miles
in circumference, it is absolutely essential that the planet where our national hero has fully twenty-one
million six hundred thousand times circumference of our earth. Well, nothing is more common
and more natural, and states certain princelings of Germany or Italy, which may beating in half
an hour, compared with Turkey, Russia, or Spanish America, is an image, still very distant from Indeed,
the differences that nature has established among men.

It is the height of His Excellency that we said, where all our painters colegiran and sculptors,
whose body might be about fifty thousand feet in circumference king because is very well proportioned.
His understanding of the most insightful is that you can see he knows a multitude of things,
and some have invented: only bordered with the two hundred and fifty years, while a student
at the Jesuit college of your planet, as there style is common, I guess by the force of his intelligence
over fifty propositions of Euclid, which are eighteen but did Blaise Pascal, the qual having guessed,
according to her sister, thirty and two playing, became, walking the years, fed medium geometry,
and malisimo metaphysical. Age of four hundred and fifty years, but not to get out of childhood, dissects
a very small insects that did not reach a hundred feet in diameter, and the microscopes were hiding
regular, and wrote a book about them very funny, but that he brought not a few surprises.
The mufti of his country, not less ticklish than ignorant, found in his book proposals suspicious,
ill-sounding, rash, heretical, or smelling of heresy, and he chased the death, then tried to
see if the substantial form of fleas from Sirius was of the same nature that of the snails. Micromegas
Defendiose salty, declared the women in their favor, because after
two hundred and twenty years which had lasted the lawsuit, did Mufti
condemn the book for qualifiers that he had not read nor could read,
and was banished court time the author for eight years.

Not much afflicted him out of a court full of intrigue and gossip. He composed a few tenths very
funny against the mufti, that this does not give a damn, and devoted himself to travel planet to planet,
only to perfect his reason and his heart, as they say. Those who are used to walking in car cufflinks,
or chaise was amazed at the carriages up there, because we, in our ball of mud, do not understand
other styles than ours. Fully knew the laws of gravitation and the forces attractive and repulsive
our walker, and he used them so well that now mounted in a sunbeam, now riding a kite, balloon balloon
went he and his servants, as well as a paxarillo flits from branch to branch. Soon there run
the Milky Way; and I regret to confess that never could descry, among the stars that is planted,
that beautiful sky empyrean, who with his spyglass discovered the illustrious Derham, curate
[Footnote: English Wise, author of Theology astronomical, and other works, who strives to prove
the existence of God by the contemplation of the wonders of nature.].

I do not say why that has not been very well Mr Derham, God forbid
size of committing mistake, but after Micromegas was in the country,
and was a good observer: I do not want to contradict anyone.

After many journeys came a day Micromegas the globe of Saturn, and although he was used to
see new things, yet we stop confusing the smallness of this planet and its inhabitants, and could
not release the smile of superiority that can not contain more sane sometimes. Truth is that
Saturn is nine hundred times larger than the earth, and the inhabitants the country are dwarfs
of about two thousand yards, with a short difference in height. Riose to top of them with their
servants, as does an Italian musician Lulli's music, when it comes to France, but Sirius was
the man of reason, and quickly recognized that one could very well be that thought to have
nothing of ridiculous, since there from six thousand feet height. Acostumbrose to Saturninus,
after having been shocked, and became a close friend of the secretary of the Academy of Saturn,
a man of great talent, which in truth nothing was invented, but very nicely gave account of
the inventions of others, and to regularly couplets girls and big load. I'll post here, to the
satisfaction of my readers, a conversation very surprised that the secretary had one day Mr.
Micromegas.

CHAPTER II.

Sirius Talk to the inhabitants of Saturn.

HE went to bed, went up to his face to the secretary, and said Micromegas: We confess that is very
diverse nature. Truth is, he said the Saturnino; is nature as a garden, whose flowers ....
Ha, he said the other, DEXA gardening. As it is, followed the Secretary, as a reunion of blonde
and brunette, whose adornments ..... What do I care about your brunette? interrupted the other.
Or as a gallery of squares, whose images ...... No, Sir, no, replied the traveler, nature is
as nature. ? A what the hell you walk looking for those comparisons? For to rejoice, 'said
the secretary. If I do not want to recreate me, what I want you to teach, "said the traveler. Tell
me what senses are first quantos men of your globe. Nothing more than seventy-two, he said the
academic and everyday We complain about such a shortage, that our
imagination is dexa back our needs, and we believe that with our seventy-two
senses, our annulled, and our five moons do not have enough, and it
is true that despite our great curiosity and passion that of our seventy-two
senses are daughters, we have plenty of time to get bored. Well what
I think, he said Micromegas, because on our globe we have about a
thousand ways, and we still are not that vague desires, not that concern,
which constantly tells us that we are girl thing, and that other beings
much more perfect. I made a few voyages, and have seen other very
inferior to us mortals, and others who are far superior, but I have
seen no with no more desires than real needs, and more needs satisfaction.
Perhaps a day will END a country where nothing is needed, but I have
not been told of this country. Then threw themselves to form conjectures
on Saturnino and Sirius, but after many no less ingenious reasoning
uncertain, was forced to re-establish facts. ? Quanto long live? he
said the Syrian. Ha, very little, "replied the man from Saturn. The
same is true in our country, 'said the Syrian, we are always complaining
about the shortness of life. Must is that it is universal pension
of nature. Alas! our lives, 'said the Saturnino is five hundred revolutions
of the sun movie (coming to be fifteen thousand years, or near, counting
as us.) You see that it is almost die so that one is born: it is our
existence one point, a moment our lives, our globe an atom, and each
instruction is just beginning something, when death snatches before
experience. Of
course, you do. Don't look so dazed. He's cruising for a couple of months and is to set her
down here until the yacht returns from Borneo and the Philippines. She says she hopes it will
be quiet here! Quiet! She hopes it will be quiet! Where are the cigarettes, Deppy? Quick! I
must do something devilish. Yes, I know I swore off last week, but--please let me take 'em."
The four of them smoked in wondrous silence for two or three minutes. Then Browne spoke up,
as if coming from a dream:

"I say, Deppingham, you can take her out walking and pick up a crownful of fresh rubies every
day or so."

"Hang it all, Browne, I'm afraid to pluck a violet these days. Every time I stoop over I feel
that somebody's going to take a shot at me. I wonder why the beggars select me to shoot at.
They're not always popping away at you, Browne. Why is it? I'm not looking for rubies every
time I stoop over. They shot at me the other day when I got down to pick up my crop."

"It's all right so long as they don't kill you," was Browne's consoling remark.

"By Jove!" said Deppingham, starting up with a look of horror in his eyes, sudden comprehension
rushing down upon him. "I wonder if they think I am you, Browne! Horrible!"

CHAPTER XII

WOMEN AND WOMEN

The Enemy's office hours were from three to five in the afternoon. It was of no especial consequence
to his clients that he frequently transferred the placard from the front of the company's bank
to the more alluring doorway of the "American bar;" all was just and fair so long as he was
to be found where the placard listed. Twice a week, Miss Pelham came down from the château
in a gaily bedecked jinriksha to sit opposite to him in his stuffy corner of the banking house,
his desk between them, her notebook trembling with propinquity. Mr. Britt generously loaned
the pert lady to the Enemy in exchange for what he catalogued as "happy days."

Miss Pelham made it a point to look as fascinating as possible on the occasion of these interesting
trips into the Enemy's territory.

The Enemy, doing his duty by his clients with a determination that seemed incontestable, suffered
in the end because of his very zealousness. He took no time to analyse the personal side of
his work; he dealt with the situation from the aspect of a man who serves but one interest,
forgetting that it involved the weal of a thousand units. For that reason, he was the last
to realise that an intrigue was shaping itself to combat his endeavours. Von Blitz, openly
his friend and ally, despite their sad encounter, was the thorn which pricked the natives into
a state of uneasiness and doubt as to their agent's sincerity.

Von Blitz, cunning and methodical, sowed the seed of distrust; it sprouted at will in the minds
of the uncouth, suspicious islanders. They began to believe that no good could come out of
the daily meetings of the three lawyers. A thousand little things cropped out to prove that
the intimacy between their man and the shrewd lawyers for the opposition was inimical to their
best interests.

It was Von Blitz who told the leading men of the island that their wives--the Persians, the
Circassians, the Egyptians and the Turkish houris--were in love with the tall stranger. It
was he who advised them to observe the actions, to study the moods of their women.

If he spoke to one of the women, beautiful or plain, the whole male population knew of it,
and smiled derisively upon the husband. Von Blitz had turned an adder loose among these men;
it stung swiftly and returned to sting again.

The German knew the condition of affairs in his own household. His overthrow at the hands of
the American had cost him more than physical ignominy; his wives openly expressed an admiration
for their champion.

He knew too well the voluptuous nature of these creamy, unloved women, who had come down to
the island of Japat in exchange for the baubles that found their way into the crowns of Persian
potentates. He knew too well that they despised the men who called them wives, even though
fear held them constantly in bond. Rebuffed, unnoticed, scorned, the women themselves began
to suspect and hate each other. If he spoke kindly to one of them, be she fair and young or
old and plain, the eyes of all the others blazed with jealousy. Every eye in Japat was upon
him; every hand was turning against him.

It was Miss Pelham who finally took it upon herself to warn the lonely American. The look of
surprise and disgust that came into his face brought her up sharply. She had been "taking"
reports at his dictation; it was during an intermission of idleness on his part that she broached
the subject.

"Miss Pelham," he said coldly, "will you be kind enough to carry my condolences to the ladies
at court, and say that I recommend reading as an antidote for the poison which idleness produces.
I've no doubt that they, with all the perspicacity of lonely and honest women, imagine that
I maintain a harem as well as a bar-room. Kindly set them right about it. Neither my home nor
my bar-room is open to ladies. If you don't mind we'll go on with this report."

Miss Pelham flushed and looked very uncomfortable. She had more to say, and yet hesitated about
bearding the lion. He noticed the pain and uncertainty in her erstwhile coquettish eyes, and
was sorry.

"I beg your pardon," he said gently.

"You're wrong about Lady Deppingham and Mrs. Browne," she began hurriedly. "They've never said
anything mean about you. It was just my miserable way of putting it. The talk comes from the
islanders. Mr. Bowles has told Mr. Britt and Mr. Saunders. He thinks Von Blitz is working against
you, and he is sure that all of the men are furiously jealous."

"My dear Miss Pelham, you are very good to warn me," said he easily. "I have nothing to fear.
The men are quite friendly and--" He stopped abruptly, his eyes narrowing in thought. A moment
later he arose and walked to the little window overlooking the square. When he turned to her
again his face wore a more serious expression. "Perhaps there is something in what you say.
I'm grateful to you for preparing me." It had suddenly come to mind that the night before he
had seen a man skulking in the vicinity of the bungalow. His body servant, Selim, had told
him that very morning that this same man, a native, had stood for hours among the trees, apparently
watching the house.

"I just thought I'd tell you," murmured Miss Pelham nervously, "I--we don't want to see you
get into trouble--none of us."

"Thank you," After a long pause, he went on, lowering his voice: "Miss Pelham, I have had a
hard time here, in more ways than I care to speak of. It may interest you to know that I had
decided to resign next month and go home. I'm a living man, and a living man objects to a living
death. It's worse than I had thought, I came out here in the hope that there would be excitement,
life, interest. The only excitement I get is when the ships call twice a month. I've even prayed
that our beastly old volcano might erupt and do all sorts of horrible things. It might, at
least, toss old Mr. Skaggs back into our midst; that would be a relief, even if he came up
as a chunk of lava. But nothing happens--nothing! These Persian fairies you talk about--bah!
I said I'd decided to resign, to get out of the infernal place. But I've changed my mind. I'll
stick my time out. I've got three months longer to stay and I'll stay. If Von Blitz thinks
he can drive me out, he's mistaken. I'll be here after you and your friends up there have sailed
away, Miss Pelham--God bless you, you're all white!--and I'll be here when Von Blitz and his
wives are dancing to the tunes I play. Now let's get back to work."

"All right; but please be careful," she urged. "Don't let them catch you unprepared. If you
need help, I know the men at the château will come at your call."

One of those bright, enveloping smiles swept over his face--the smile that always carried the
little stenographer away with it. A merry chuckle escaped his lips. "Thanks, but you forget
that I can call out the American and British navies."

She looked doubtful. "I know," she said, "but I'm afraid Von Blitz is scuttling your ships."

"If poor little Bowles can conquer them with a red jacket that's too small for him, to say
nothing of the fit it would give to the British army, I think I can scrape up a garment or
two that will startle them in another way. Please don't worry about me. I shall call my clients
together and have it out with them. If Von Blitz is working in the dark, I'll compel him to
show his hand. And, Miss Pelham," he concluded very slowly, "I'll promise to use a club, if
necessary, to drive the Persian ladies away. So please rest easy on my account."

Poor little Miss Pelham left him soon afterward, her head and heart ringing with the consciousness
that she had at last driven him out of his customary reserve. Mr. Saunders was pacing the street
in the neighbourhood of the bank. He had been waiting an hour or more, and he was green with
jealousy. She nodded sweetly to him and called him to the side of her conveyance. "Don't you
want to walk beside me?" she asked. And he trotted beside her like a faithful dog, all the
way to the distant château.

The next morning the town bustled with a new excitement. A trim, beautiful yacht, flying strange
colours, steamed into the little harbour of Aratat.

She came to anchor much closer in than ships usually ventured, and an officer put off in the
small boat, heading for the pier, which was already crowded with the native women and children.
Every one knew that the yacht brought the Princess who was to visit her ladyship; nothing else
had been talked of among the women since the word first came down from the château that she
was expected.

The Enemy came down from his bungalow, attracted by the unusual and inspiring spectacle of
a ship at anchor. A line of anxiety marked his brow. Two figures had watched his windows all
night long, sinister shadows that always met his eye when it penetrated the gloom of the moonlit
forest.

Lord and Lady Deppingham were on the pier before him. Excitement and joy illumined her face;
her eyes were sparkling with anticipation; he could almost see that she trembled in her eagerness.
He came quite close to them before they saw him. Exhilaration no doubt was responsible for
the very agreeable smile of recognition that she bestowed upon him. Or, perhaps it was inspired
by womanly pity for the man whose loneliness was even greater and graver than her own. The
Enemy could do no less than go to them with his pleasantest acknowledgment. His rugged face
relaxed into a most charming, winsome smile, half-diffident, half-assured.

He passed among the wives of his clients without so much as a sign of recognition, coolly indifferent
to the admiring glances that sought his face. The dark, langourous eyes that flashed eager
admiration a moment before now turned sullen with disappointment. He had ignored their owners;
he had avoided them as if they were dust heaps in the path; he had spurned them as if they
were dogs by the roadside. And yet he smiled upon the Englishwoman, he spoke with her, he admired
her! The sharp intake of breath that swept through the crowd told plainer than words the story
of the angry eyes that followed him to the end of the pier, where the officer's boat was landing.

"I have heard that you expect a visitor," said the Enemy in his most agreeable manner. Lady
Deppingham had just told him that she had a friend aboard the yacht.

"Won't you go aboard with us," asked Deppingham, at a loss for anything better to say. The
Enemy shook his head and smiled.

"You are very good, but I believe my place is here," he said, with a swift, sardonic glance
toward his herd of followers. Lady Deppingham raised her delicate eyebrows and gave him the
cool, intimate smile of comprehension. He flushed. "I am one of the lowly and the despised,"
he explained humbly.

"The Princess is to be with me for a month. We expect more sunshine than ever at the château,"
ventured her ladyship.

"I sincerely hope you may be disappointed," said he commiseratingly, fanning himself with his
hat. She laughed and understood, but Deppingham was half way out to the yacht before it became
clear to him that the Enemy hoped literally, not figuratively.

The Enemy sauntered back toward the town, past and through the staring crowd of women. Here
and there in the curious throng the face of a Persian or an Egyptian stared at him from among
the brown Arabians. There was no sign of love in the glittering eyes of these trafficked women
of Japat. One by one they lifted their veils to their eyes and slowly faded into the side streets,
each seeking the home she despised, each filled with a hatred for the man who would not feast
upon her beauty.

The man, all unconscious of the new force that was to oppose him from that hour, saw the English
people go aboard. He waited until the owner's launch was ready to return to the pier with its
merry company, and then slowly wended his way to the "American bar," lonelier than ever before
in his life. He now knew what it was that he had missed more than all else--Woman!

Britt and Saunders were waiting for him under the awning outside. They were never permitted
to enter, except by the order or invitation of the Enemy. Selim stood guard and Selim loved
the tall American, who could be and was kind to him.

"Hello," called Britt. "We saw you down there, but couldn't get near. By ginger, old man, I
had no idea your Persians were so beautiful. They are Oriental gems of--"

"My Persians? What the devil do you mean, Britt? Come in and sit down; I want to talk to you
fellows. See here, this talk about these women has got to be stopped. It's dangerous for you
and it's dangerous for me. It is so full of peril that I don't care to look at them, handsome
as you say they are. Do you know what I was thinking of as I came over here, after leaving
one of the most charming of women?--your Lady Deppingham. I was thinking what a wretched famine
there is in women. I'm speaking of women like Lady Deppingham and Mrs. Browne--neither of whom
I know and yet I've known them all my life. The kind of women we love--not the kind we despise
or pity. Don't you see? I'm hungry for the very sight of a woman."

"You see Miss Pelham often enough," said Saunders surlily. The Enemy was making a pitcher of
lemonade.

"My dear Saunders, you are quite right. I do see Miss Pelham often enough. In my present frame
of mind I'd fall desperately in love with her if I saw her oftener." Saunders blinked and glared
at him through his pale eyes.

"My word," he said. Then he got up abruptly and stalked out of the room. Britt laughed immoderately.

"He's a lucky dog," reflected the Enemy. "You see, he loves her, Britt--he loves little Miss
Pelham. Do you know what that means? It means everything is worth while. Hello! Here he is
back! Come in, Saunders. Here's your lemo!"

Saunders was excited. He stopped in the doorway, but looked over his shoulder into the street.

"Come along," he exclaimed. "They're going up to the château--the Princess and her party. My
word, she's ripping!" He was off again, followed more leisurely by the two Americans.

At the corner they stopped to await the procession of palanquins and jinrikshas, which had
started from the pier. The smart English victoria from the château, drawn by Wyckholme's thoroughbreds,
was coming on in advance of the foot brigade. Half a dozen officers from the yacht, as many
men in civilian flannels, and a small army of servants were being borne in the palanquins.
In the rear seat of the victoria sat Lady Deppingham and one who evidently was the Princess.
Opposite to them sat two older but no less smart-looking women.

Britt and the Enemy moved over to the open space in front of the mosque. They stood at the
edge of and apart from the crowd of curious Moslems, who had moved up in advance of the procession.

"A gala day in Aratat," observed the stubby Mr. Britt. "We are to have the whole party over
night up at the château. Perhaps the advent of strangers may heal the new breach between Mrs.
Browne and Lady Deppingham. They haven't been on speaking terms since day before yesterday.
Did Miss Pelham tell you about it? Well, it seems that Mrs. Browne thinks that Lady Agnes is
carrying on a flirtation with Browne--Hello! By thunder, old man, she's--she's speaking to
you!" He turned in astonishment to look at his companion's face.

The Enemy was staring, transfixed, at the young woman in white who sat beside Lady Deppingham.
He seemed paralysed for the moment. Then his helmet came off with a rush; a dazed smile of
recognition lighted his face. The very pretty young woman in the wide hat was leaning forward
and smiling at him, a startled, uncertain look in her eyes. Lady Deppingham was glancing open-mouthed
from one to the other. The Enemy stood there in the sun, bareheaded, dazed, unbelieving, while
the carriage whirled past and up the street. Both women turned to look back at him as they
rounded the corner into the avenue; both were smiling.

"I must be dreaming," murmured the Enemy.

Britt took him by the arm. "Do you know her?" he asked. The Enemy turned upon him with a radiant
gleam in his once sombre disconsolate eyes.

"Do you think I'd be grinning at her like a damned fool if I didn't? Why the dickens didn't
you tell me that it was the Princess Genevra of Rapp-Thorberg who was coming?"

"Never thought of it. I didn't know you were interested in princesses, Chase."

CHAPTER XIII

CHASE PERFORMS A MIRACLE

Hollingsworth Chase now felt that he was on neutral ground with the Princess Genevra. He could
hardly credit his senses. When he left Rapp-Thorberg in disgrace some months before, his susceptibilities
were in a most thoroughly chastened condition; a cat might look at a king, but he had forsworn
peeping into the secret affairs of princesses.

His strange connection with the Skaggs will case is easily explained. After leaving Thorberg
he went directly to Paris; thence, after ten days, to London, where he hoped to get on as a
staff correspondent for one of the big dailies. One day at the Savage Club, he listened to
a recital of the amazing conditions which attended the execution of Skaggs's will. He had shot
wild game in South Africa with Sir John Brodney, chief counsellor for the islanders, and, as
luck would have it, was to lunch with him on the following day at the Savoy.

His soul hungered for excitement, novelty. The next day, when Sir John suddenly proposed that
he go out to Japat as the firm's representative, he leaped at the chance. There would be no
difficulty about certain little irregularities, such as his nationality and the fact that he
was not a member of the London bar: Sir John stood sponsor for him, and the islanders would
take him on faith.

In truth, Rasula was more than glad to have the services of an American. He had heard Wyckholme
talk of the manner in which civil causes were conducted and tried in the United States, and
he felt that one Yankee on the scene was worth ten Englishmen at home. Doubtless he got his
impressions of the genus Englishman by observation of the devoted Bowles.

The good-looking Mr. Chase, writhing under the dread of exposure as an international jackass,
welcomed the opportunity to get as far away from civilisation as possible. He knew that the
Prince Karl story would not lie dormant. It would be just as well for him if he were where
the lash of ridicule could not reach him, for he was thin-skinned.

We know how and when he came to the island and we have renewed our short acquaintance with
him under peculiar circumstances. It would be sadly remiss, however, to suppress the information
that he could not banish the fair face of the Princess Genevra from his thoughts during the
long voyage; nor would it be stretching the point to say that his day dreams were of her as
he sat and smoked in his bungalow porch.

Before Chase left London, Sir John Brodney bluntly cautioned him against the dangers that lurked
in Lady Deppingham's eyes.

"She won't leave you a peg to stand on, Chase, if you seek an encounter," he said. "She's pretty
and she's clever, and she's made fools of better men than you, my boy. I don't say she's a
bad lot, because she's too smart for that. But I will say that a dozen men are in love with
her to-day. I suppose you'll say that she can't help that. I'm only warning you on the presumption
that they don't seem to be able to help it, either. Remember, my boy, you are going out there
to offset, not to beset, Lady Deppingham."

Chase learned more of the attractive Lady Agnes and her court before he left England. Common
report credited her with being dangerously pretty, scandalously unwise, eminently virtuous,
distractingly adventurous in the search for pleasure, charmingly unscrupulous in her treatment
of men's hearts, but withal, sufficiently clever to dodge the consequences of her widespread
though gentle iniquities. He was quite prepared to admire her, and yet equally resolved to
avoid her. Something told him that he was not of the age and valor of St. Anthony. He went
out to Japat with a stern resolution to lead himself not into temptation; to steer clear of
the highway of roses and stick close to the thorny paths below. Besides, he felt that he deserved
some sort of punishment for looking so high in the Duchy of Rapp-Thorberg.

Not that he was in love with the proud Princess Genevra; he denied that to himself a hundred
times a day as he sat in his bungalow and smoked the situation over.

He had proved to himself, quite beyond a doubt, that he was not in love, when, like a bolt
from a clear sky, she stepped out of the oblivion into which he had cast her, to smile upon
him without warning. It was most unfair. Her smile had been one of the most difficult obstacles
to overcome in the effort to return a fair and final verdict.

As he sat in the shade of his bungalow porch on the afternoon of her arrival, he lamented that
every argument he had presented in the cause of common sense had been knocked into a cocked
hat by that electric smile. Could anything be more miraculous than that she should come to
the unheard-of island of Japat--unless, possibly, that he should be there when she came? She
was there for him to look upon and love and lose, just as he had dreamed all these months.
It mattered little that she was now the wife of Prince Karl of Brabetz; to him she was still
the Princess Genevra of Rapp-Thorberg.

If he had ever hoped that she might be more to him than an unattainable divinity, he was not
fool enough to imagine that such a hope could be realised. She was a princess royal, he the
slave who stood afar off and worshipped beyond the barrier of her disdain. In his leather pocketbook
lay the ever-present reminder that she could be no more than a dream to him. It was the clipping
from a Paris newspaper, announcing that the Princess Genevra was to wed Prince Karl during
the Christmas holidays.

He had seen the Christmas holidays come and go with the certain knowledge in his heart that
they had given her to Brabetz as the most glorious present that man had ever received. If he
was tormented by this thought at the happiest season of the year, his crustiness was attributed
by others to the loneliness of his life on the island. If he grew leaner and more morose, no
one knew that it was due to the passing of a woman.

Now she was come to the island and, so far as he had been able to see, there was no sign of
the Prince of Brabetz in attendance. The absence of the little musician set Chase to thinking,
then to speculating and, in the end, to rejoicing. Her uncle by marriage, an English nobleman
of high degree, in gathering his friends for the long cruise, evidently had left the Prince
out of his party, for what reason Chase could not imagine. To say that the omission was gratifying
to the tall American would be too simple a statement. Leaving Jupiter, passed through a space of about a hundred
million miles, and cost the planet Mars, the qual, as everyone knows, is five times smaller than
our globule, and they saw two moons that serve this planet, and have not our astronomers have
discovered. While the abbot was written in much Donayre Ximenez against the existence of these
moons, but I appeal to those run by analogy, all great philosophers who know very well that
it will be possible to live without two moons Mars at least, being so far from the sun. Anyway,
they seemed to our travelers thing girl, who feared not finding a comfortable inn, and went
forward as do two Quando walkers encounter poor sales in the wilderness, and continue to the
next village. But then he repented the Syrian and his partner, who walked a long period without
finding hostel. After a little light descry, which was the land, which seemed very mean thing to
people who had come from Jupiter. However, rezelando repent again, were determined to land
on it. They went into the comet's tail, and finding an aurora borealis by hand, went inside and brought
ashore to the north shore of the Baltic Sea, five of July 1737.

CHAPTER IV.

That accounts of what happened on the globe of the earth.

Having rested a bit, had lunch two mountains that are then cooked his servants with much toilet.
Wanted to recognize the wretched country then where they were, and headed north to south. Each
step ordinary Sirius and his family was about thirty thousand feet of the king, followed him
by far the dwarf of Saturn, who lost his breath, because I had to take twelve steps while the other leg
stretched out, almost like a lapdog that is, if you will excuse the
comparison, a captain of the guards of the king of Prussia.

As they went in a hurry these foreigners, were seen around the globe in thirty-six hours: truth
is that the sun, or rather the earth, makes the same journey in one day, but we to repair something
that is easier to turn on its exe to anchor foot. They returned after the etab first place, having
seen the raft, almost imperceptible to them, they call the Mediterranean, and another pool boy with
big name around our den Oceano; the dwarf gave him water to half a leg, and barely had wet the
other heels. Were and came up and abaxo, making quanto could be determined whether or not it
was inhabited this Balloon baxaronse, acostaronse, tempted by all parties, but was so disproportionate
their eyes and hands with the petty things that go dragging Baxo here, who had no more slight feeling
for where they might fall under suspicion of us and our brothers
the other inhabitants of this globe.

The dwarf, sometimes with some precipitation failed, he decided then that there was no living
on earth, and his first reason was that there had been none. Micromegas given to understand with great
civility, which was not founded consequeencia because, he said to him, with your eyes so kids
do not see some stars of Quinquagesima magnitude that I can distinguish very clearly. ? Colegis
why there is such a star? If I have tempted all, 'said the dwarf. And if not you have felt
what it is? he said the other. If so bad collated this globe, "replied the dwarf, if it is
so irregular, and a configuration that seems so ridiculous that everyone is I imagine chaos. ?
Not see these streams, which runs any right, these ponds and are round or squares, or oval or any regular
figure, all these bumps pointed that this bristling, and I have entered on your feet? (And wanted
to talk about the mountains). ? Do not you notice the way around the globe, flattened at the poles,
and spinning around the sun so confused direction, which by necessity climates of both poles have
to be uneducated? What forces me to believe that there is really living in, is that no one who
had reason floor would want. ? Who cares? Micromegas he said, may not have common sense people,
but after it is presumed that this has been done without any purpose. You say that you all
here appears irregular because everything is thrown into the line in Jupiter and Saturn. Well,
for the same reason is perhaps some confusion here. ? No I said that I had always noticed
variety in my journeys? Replied the Saturnino these reasons, and not completed the dispute, if
the heat she had not broken the thread of his Micromegas diamond necklace, and caidose these, that
they were very nice bright, though tiny and uneven, the thicker weighed four hundred pounds, and fifty
the most petite. Some grabbed the dwarf, and leaning saw the eyes as they were polished, microscopes
were excellent: grabbed as a kid microscope hundred and sixty feet in diameter, and was applied to
one eye, while Micromegas is served another two thousand and five hundred feet. At first they
saw nothing with them, since they were gifted, had to be put in the position that was required.
After the inhabitants of Saturn saw something bobbing imperceptible in midwater the Baltic
Sea, and it was a whale, nicely laid it over your finger and placing it in a thumb, she was
taught to Sirius, the second time he laughed at the huge smallness the inhabitants of our globe. Persuaded
by that Saturnino was inhabited our world he imagined then that it was just for whales, and as it
was great discurridor, tried to guess where the movement came to an atom so mean, and if I had
ideas, will and free will. Micromegas not know what to think, but having examined the animal patiently,
bag of consideration that he could not reside in the body as a soul boy. Inclinabanse for
our two walkers to believe that there is no reason in our room, when, with the aid of a microscope,
package distinguish other thicker than a whale in the Baltic Sea walked fluctuating. We know that
by that time returned from the polar circle, a flock of philosophers, who had gone to make observations
that no one had hitherto thought. They brought the papers public that their boat had capsized off
the coast of Bothnia, and they had a difficult time going out to rescue, but you never know in this
world there is to vnder rope. I I have naively the event, without removing or adding anything, effort
on the part of a historian is exceedingly meritorious.

CHAPTER V.

Experience and reasoning of both walkers.

Micromegas tended with great circumspection hand via the site of the object, and stretching
and shrinking fingers of fear of being wrong, and then opening them and closing them, I take very mana
the ship where they were these gentlemen, and placed on a "not too tight, not estruxarle. Lo here
a very different animal from the other, 'said the dwarf of Saturn and Sirius put the pretense
animal in the palm of the hand. The passengers and sailors tripulacioon, which is believed caught
by a storm, and thought they aground on a Baxi, are all in motion; sailors caught barrels of wine,
toss them at the hand of Micromegas, and after they are thrown; seize the geometries of quarts
circle, their sectors, and Lapp, and alight on the fingers of Sirius: Finally both were busy,
they felt it shaking a thing that beetles in the fingers, and it was a club with an iron tip
nailed him a foot in the index finger: the itching made him believe that the body had become
something The creature that I had on hand, but could not suspect anything at first, as its microscope
barely enough to distinguish a ship of a whale could not make visible a entecillo as inconspicuous
as a man. I do not want censure of any vanity here, but please vainglorious people to stop
the consideration here, and consider that if ordinary height of a man five feet of the king,
but do not lump in the ground than in a ball ten feet in circumference did an animal that
had a hundred avos thousand of an inch high. Let us imagine a substance that could lead the globe
terraquueeo in hand, and had bodies similar to ours, and it is most likely that there many of these
substances, and I gather that is what the functions of war, we have won two or three small
place that has since been restoring force would think.

I have no doubt that if any captain of grenadiers shall read this book, have your troop put hats
two feet higher, but I warn you that, however you do, always will be the and his soldiers about
infinitely small.

iQue wonderful mana you need our philosopher had Sirius for managing to descry the atoms of
which I speak! Quando Hartsoeker Leuwenhoek and saw, or believed that Vian for the first time,
the seed of which we are formed, there was not nearly as amazing discovery. iQue Micromegas
like that of when he saw these razors wiggle, when examine all their movements, and continued
its operations! iCom cried! icon who retired extension cord to his partner of one of its microscopes
journey! I'm watching them, they said both together; behold as loaded as baxan and rise. So
they said, and they shook hands the joy of seeing objects as new, and the fear of losing sight.
Saturnino passing of a trust to the opposite end of credulity, it figures that he was busy
watching in the propagation. Ha, he said the Saturnino, I have caught nature "red-handed." However
Enganabanle appearances, and so very frequeentemente happens, when one uses and when do not use
microscopes.

CHAPTER VI.

From what I happened to men.

Very best observer Micromegas his dwarf, he saw clearly that the atoms were spoken, and it pointed
out to his partner, which with the embarrassment of having deceived about the article the generation,
unwilling to believe that such kind of bugs could communicate ideas. He had the gift of tongues
is not less than Sirius, and not hearing about our atoms, supposed who did not speak: then? as
the organs were to have a voice as subtle bodies, or that they had to say? To talk is essential to
consider and if thought, had something which was equivalent to the soul: and attribute something equivalent
to a kind soul so base, is to much nonsense. The Syrian told him:? For You thought not, little does,
which were falling in love? ? Do you think to love one without thinking, without saying a word,
or at least not make themselves understood? , Or suppose it is easiest thing to a child a
syllogism? My one and one I seem impenetrable mysteries. I dare ya, 'said the dwarf, to believe
or deny any thing, try to look these insects, and runs later. iQue my place! Micromegas answered,
and drawing a tixeras, trim her nails, and short of what one of her thumb made the point a kind
of big horn, like a huge funnel, and put the fee at an ear, the circumference funnel took the
ship and all its crew, and the weakest voice in the fibers were introduced circular one, so that,
through their industry, the philosopher of heard up there well the buzz of our insects abaxo here,
and within hours was able to distinguish words, and understanding after the French. So did
the dwarf, but not so easily. Spot grew the astonishment of the two travelers, on hearing about
quite a few mites reason, and this game seemed inexplicable nature. Well it goes that he was
dying the dwarf and Syrian desire to engage in conversation with the atoms, but the dwarf
is feared his thunderous voice, and even more of Micromegas, thundered to the mites without
being overheard. They tried, as to diminish its force, and it got a toothpick in his mouth very
tiny, very sharp as he was going to stop next to the ship. He put the dwarf on the Syrian his knees
and one on top of a ship with the crew; Baxo head and spoke very quietly, and after all these precautions
and many more, said the following: Invisible bugs the right hand of the Creator is pleased
to produce in the abyss of the infinitely small, I manifest myself worthy bless because impenetrable
secrets. Perhaps no one is worthy of yourselves in my court, but
I despise anyone, and I give you my protection.

If there has been amazing in the world, none has reached the that this was heard to say, unable to hit
upon which he left. The chaplain pray the prayers of spells, and disowned voted sailors, and
forged a philosophers of the ship, but for most envisioned systems, were unable to hit upon who was
speaking to them. And he told them in brief the dwarf of Saturn, which was less Micromegas is
stronger voice with which people were talking, and his journey to Saturn: I inform the gentleman
who was Micromegas, and having compassion they were so young, I wonder if they had always lived
in a state as bordering on nothing, and that was what they were doing
in a balloon which appeared to be peculiar to whales, if they were
happy, if they had soul, if multiplied, and a thousand other questions
of this sort.

Dudasen angry that if I had a soul, a reasoning of the band, more daring than others, the participant
observed a finlets adapted to a quarter of a circle, measured with two triangles, and the third
told him so:? With what you believe, sir knight, that because you have two thousand yards from
head to toe, you are some ...? gone a thousand yards! exclaimed the dwarf, it is not wrong
or an inch. iCon I measured the atom! icon that is geometry, and he knows my size and I that
I can not see without the aid of a microscope, not even yours! Yes, that I have measured he
said the physical, and also measure your giant companion. Admitiose the proposal, and Acosto His
Excellency on the ground, because they stood their head was higher than the clouds, and our
philosophers they planted a tree in a very large site or Torres Quevedo been appointed by
name, but I do not dare to lie on the great respect that I have the
ladies, and then by a series of triangles, connected to each other,
guessing that the person was a mancebito mediate hundred and twenty
thousand feet of a king.

Micromegas then burst out in these reasons: I see that you never have to judge things its apparent
magnitude. O God, who gave intelligence to some substances such despicable seem infinitely small
costs no more to your omnipotence that the infinitely large; and if it is possible that other
creatures smaller than them, perhaps will have a higher intelligence
that of those huge animals I've seen in the sky, and with one foot
would cover the entire globe where I am now.

Answered one of the philosophers who could not believe it, but you have any doubt, he had loved much
more intelligent boys than men, and told him not fables that we have forsaken Virgilio on bees,
but what Swammerdam discovered, and what has dissected Reaumur. Instructed him then there are
animals that are about bees, which are the bees with respect man, and what was the Syrian
same with respect to those so stout of animals speaking, and what are these big animals compared
with other substances to the quale seem imperceptible atoms.

Gradually the conversation was becoming interesting, Micromegas and
said so.

CHAPTER VII.

Conversations with men.

O atoms intelligent, in whom it pleased the eternal Being in showing their art and power no doubt
that your globe PLEASURE purest happy, as having so little substance and looking all spirit,
you ought to use your life in love and think that is true life of the spirits. In part I have
seen no real happiness, but I am sure this is his mansion. Encogieronse shoulders to hear
this argument all the philosophers; and more naive one sincerely confessed, except a very few of
residents very little appreciated, everything else is a cafile crazy, perverse and unfortunate.
More material we have, he said, which is necessary to do evil, if evil comes from matter, and
more intelligence, if it comes from intelligence. ? Par example You know that when this one
hundred thousand fools of our species, who wear hats, are killing a hundred thousand other animals
covered with a turban, or dying at their hands, and so is style throughout the land, immemorial
time here? The Syrian terribly shocked, and asked the reason for such horrible strife between
so vile little creatures. It is, he said the philosopher, a few scraps of land sizes as your foot,
not because neither one of the millions who die request even a lump
of that piece, it is to know whether to belong to a certain man Sultan
called or another surname Cesar, do not know why.

Neither has been and never see the little corner of land that is in dispute, nor least almost
none of the animals that has been reciprocally are killed either by the person who kills the animal.

iDesventurados!
Sirius exclaimed indignantly:? as you can imagine so mad frenzy? Starters come to give me
three steps, with three kicks estruxar ridiculous this whole swarm of murderers. You do not
take that job, he responded, which left them till toil ruin. Know that within ten years in life
fails, the tenth of these wretches, and that even without drawing the sword, almost everyone
carries the hunger, fatigue, or the distemper, apart from that it is they who deserve punishment,
but the idle ruthless, which stuck sent in his cabinet, as they digest the food, slaughter a million
men, and are then solemn thanksgiving to God. I felt the walker moved to pity the wretched
lineage human in so many contradictions found qual. As you, he said to these gentlemen, the short
number of scholars who certainly kill anyone for money, I pray you tell me quale are your occupations.
Dissected flies, "replied the philosopher, measured lines, combined numbers, we agree on two
or three points that mean, and divided on two or three thousand who do not understand. It occurred
to Sirius and ask questions Saturnino atoms thinkers, to know about that they were consistent. ? Far
is, he said this, since the star Canicula to the big Geminis? They answered together: Thirty-two
degrees and one-half .--? Quanto far from here the moon? - Sixty semi-diameter of the earth
.--? Quanto weighs your ayre? Taken if any thought, but all they told him that weighed nine hundred
times less the same volume of water lighter, and nineteen thousand times less than gold. Astonished
the little elves urgently Saturn with their answers, I was tempted to believe that those were
magic ones to whom a quarter of an hour before the intelligence had
been denied.

Micromegas finally said to them: Once you know how time what is outside of you no doubt that you
will know better yet what is inside: say they know what is your soul and how are your ideas.
Philosophers spoke all at the same time, as before, but all were of a different opinion. I quote the
most ancient to Aristotle, one pronounce the name of Descartes, that the Malebranche, that
that of Leibnitz, Locke and the other. The old peripatetic he said with confidence: The soul
is a entelechia, a reason under the qual is power being what it is, so what Aristotle says expressly,
pag. 633 of the edition of Louvre: Entelexeia esti, etc. I do not understand the Greek, 'said the
giant. Nor I, "replied the plowman philosophical. ?

Well, that citais, "replied the Syrian, in that Aristotle in Greek? Because what you do not understand,
"said the sage, it must include language that does not know.

I take the Cartesian thread, and said: The soul a pure spirit in the womb has received all the
metaphysical ideas, and so leave the has been refined to go to school and relearn what we knew
so well and never gonna know. For these prospered, the animal responded eight leagues, who could
both remember when I was in your soul the womb of your mother, if
had to be so ignorant Quando were your man with a beard. ? Y you mean
by spirit? ? That's what I ask? he said the discurridor, I have no
idea none of it: they say that it is not subject .--? And you know
what is matter?

"I don't know much to tell you," said he. "He's made an enemy or two and they are trying to
drive him out. I'd be rather sorry to see him go. We've asked him down here, just because we
can't bear to think of a fellow-creature wasting his days in utter loneliness. But he has,
so far, declined with thanks. The islanders are beginning to hate him. They distrust him, Britt
says. Of course, you know why we are here, you--"

"Every one knows, Mr. Browne. You are the most interesting quartette in the world just now.
Every one is wondering how it is going to end. What a pity you can't marry Lady Agnes."

"Oh, I say!" protested Browne. She laughed merrily.

"But how dull it must be for Mr. Chase! Does he complain?"

"I can't say that he does. Britt--that's my lawyer--Britt says he's never heard a murmur from
him. He takes his medicine with a smile. I like that sort of a fellow and I wish he'd be a
little more friendly. It couldn't interfere with his duties and I don't see where the harm
would come in for any of us."

"He has learned to know and keep his place," said she coolly. Perhaps she was thinking of his
last night in the palace garden. Away up there in the darkness gleamed his single, lonely,
pathetic little light. "Isn't it rather odd, Mr. Browne, that his light should be burning at
two o'clock in the morning? Is it his custom to sit up--"

"I've never noticed it before, now you speak of it. I hope nothing serious has happened to
him. He may have been injured in--I say, if you don't mind, I'll ask some one to telephone
up to his place. It would be beastly to let him lie up there alone if we can be of any service
to--"

"Yes, do telephone," she broke in. "I am sure Lady Deppingham will approve. No, thank you;
I will stand here a while. It is cool and I love the stars." He hurried off to the telephone,
more eager than ever, now that she had started the new thought in his brain. Five minutes later
he returned to her, accompanied by Lady Agnes. She was still looking at--the stars? The little
light among the trees could easily have been mistaken for a star.

"Lady Deppingham called him up," said Bobby.

"And he answered in person," said her ladyship. "He seemed strangely agitated for a moment
or two, Genevra, and then he laughed--yes, laughed in my face, although it was such a long
way off. People can do what they like over the telephone, my dear. I asked him if he was ill,
or had been hurt. He said he never felt better in his life and hadn't a scratch. He laughed--I
suppose to show me that he was all right. Then he said he was much obliged to me for calling
him up. He'd quite forgotten to go to bed. He asked me to thank you for bringing a warship.
You saved his life. Really, one would think you were quite a heroine--or a Godsend or something
like that. I never heard anything sweeter than the way he said good-night to me. There!"

The light in the bungalow bobbed mysteriously for an instant and then went out.

"How far is it from here?" asked the Princess abruptly.

"Nearly two miles as the crow flies--only there are no crows here. Five miles by the road,
I fancy, isn't it, Bobby? I call him Bobby, you know, when we are all on good terms. I don't
see why I shouldn't if you stop to think how near to being married to each other we are at
this very instant."

"I wonder if help could reach him quickly in the event of an attack?"

"It could, if he'd have the kindness to notify us by 'phone," said Browne.

"But he wouldn't telephone to us," said Lady Deppingham ruefully. "He's not so communicative
as that."

"Surely he would call upon you for help if he----"

"You don't know him, Genevra."

The Princess smiled in a vague sort of way. "I've met him quite informally, if you remember."

"I should say it was informally. It's the most delicious story I've ever heard. You must tell
it to Mr. Browne, dear. It's all about the Enemy in Thorberg, Mr. Browne. There's your wife
calling, Bobby. She wants you to tell that story again, about the bishop who rang the door bell."

The next morning the captain of the King's Own came ashore and was taken to the château for
dejeuner. Late in the afternoon, the Marquess and his party, saying farewell to the Princess
and the revived legatees, put out to the yacht and steamed away in the wake of the great warship.
The yacht was to return in a month, to pick up the Princess.

Genevra, her maids, her men and her boxes, her poodle and her dachshund, were left behind for
the month of March. Not without misgiving, it must be said, for the Marquess, her uncle, was
not disposed to look upon the island situation as a spot of long-continued peace, even though
its hereditary companion, Prosperity, might reign steadily. But she refused to listen to their
warnings. She smiled securely and said she had come to visit Lady Agnes and she would not now
disappoint her for the world. All this, and much more, passed between them.

"You won't be able to get help as cleverly and as timely as that American chap got it last
night," protested the Marquess. "Warships don't browse around like gulls, you know. Karl will
never forgive me if I leave you here----"

"Karl is of a very forgiving nature, uncle, dear," said Genevra sweetly. "He forgave you for
defending Mr. Chase, because you are such a nice Englishman. I've induced him to forgive Mr.
Chase because he's such a nice American-although Mr. Chase doesn't seem to know it-and I'm
quite sure Karl would shake his hand if he should come upon him anywhere. Leave Karl to me, uncle."

"And leave you to the cannibals, or whatever they are. I can't think of it! It's out of the--"

"Take him away, Aunt Gretchen. 'And come again some other day,'" she sang blithely.

And so they sailed away without her, just as she had intended from the beginning. Lord Deppingham
stood beside her on the pier as the shore party waved its adieus to the yacht.

"By Jove, Genevra, I hope no harm comes to you here in this beastly place," said he, a look
of anxiety in his honest eyes. "There goes our salvation, if any rumpus should come up. We
can't call 'em out of the sky as Chase did last night. Lucky beggar! That fellow Chase is ripping,
by Jove. That's what he is. I wish he'd open up his heart a bit and ask us into that devilish
American bar of his."

"He owes us something for the warship we delivered to him last night," said Bobby. "He has
made good with his warship story, after all, thanks to the King's Own and Britt."

"And the fairy Princess," added Lady Deppingham.

"I am doubly glad I came, if you include me in the miracle," said Genevra, shuddering a little
as she looked at the lounging natives. "Isn't it rather more of a miracle that I should come
upon mine ancient champion in this unheard-of corner of the globe?"

"I'd like to hear the story of Chase and his Adventures in the Queen's Garden," reminded Bobby
Browne.

"I'll tell it to you to-night, my children," said the Princess, as they started for the palanquins.

Hollingsworth Chase dodged into the American bar just in time to escape the charge of spying.

CHAPTER XV

MR. SAUNDERS HAS A PLAN

Miss Pelham's affair with Thomas Saunders by this time had reached the stage where observers
feel a hesitancy about twitting the parties most concerned. Even Britt, the bravest jester
of them all, succumbed to the prevailing wind when he saw how it blew. He got in the lee of
popular opinion and reefed the sails of the good ship Tantalus.

"Let true love take its course," he remarked to Bobby Browne one day, after they had hearkened
to Deppingham's furious complaint that he couldn't find Saunders when he wanted him if he happened
to be wanted simultaneously by Miss Pelham. "Miss Pelham is a fine girl. Your wife likes her
and looks after her. She's a clever girl, much cleverer than Saunders would be if he were a
girl. She's found out that he earns a thousand a year and that his mother is a very old woman.
That shows foresight. She says she's just crazy about London, although she doesn't know where
Hammersmith is. That shows discretion. She's anxious to see the boats at Putney and talks like
an encyclopaedia about Kew Gardens. That shows diplomacy. You see, Saunders lives in Hammersmith,
not far from the bridge, all alone with his mother, who owns the house and garden. It's all
very appealing to Miss Pelham, who has got devilish tired of seeing the universe from a nineteenth
story in Broadway. I heard her tell Saunders that she keeps a couple of geranium pots on the
window sill near which she sits all day. She says she's keen about garden flowers. Looks serious
to me."

"She's a very nice girl," agreed Bobby Browne.

"A very saucy one," added Deppingham, who had come a severe cropper in his single attempt to
interest her in a mild flirtation.

"She's off with Saunders now," went on Britt. "That's why you can't find him, my lord. If you
really want him, however, I think you can reach him by strolling through the lower end of the
park and shouting. For heaven's sake, don't fail to shout."

"I do want him, confound him. I want to ask him how many days there are left before our time
is up on the island. Demmed annoying, that I can't have legal advice when I--"

"How many days have you been here?"

"How the devil should I know? That's what we've got Saunders here for. He's supposed to tell
us when to go home, and all that sort of thing, you know."

"It isn't going to be so bad, now that the Princess has come to cheer us up a bit," put in
Bobby Browne. "Life has a new aspect."

"I say, Browne," burst out Deppingham, irrelevantly, his eyeglass clenched in the tight grasp
of a perplexed frown, "would you mind telling me that story about the bishop and the door bell
again?"

Britt laughed hoarsely, his chubby figure shivering with emotion. "You've heard that story
ten times, to my certain knowledge, Deppingham."

His lordship glared at him. "See here, Britt, you'll oblige me by--"

"Very well," interrupted Britt readily. "I forget once in a while."

"The trouble with you Americans is this," growled Deppingham, turning to Browne and speaking
as if Britt was not in existence: "you have no dividing line. 'Gad, you wouldn't catch Saunders
sticking his nose in where he wasn't wanted. He's--"

"I was under the impression that you wanted him," interrupted Britt, most good-naturedly, his
stubby legs far apart, his hands in his pockets.

"I say, Browne, would you mind coming into my room? I want to hear that story, but I'm hanged
if I'll listen to it out here."

The oft-told story of the bishop and the bell, of course, has no bearing upon the affairs of
Miss Pelham and Thomas Saunders. And, for that matter, the small affairs of that worthy couple
have little or no bearing upon the chief issue involved in this tale. Nobody cares a rap whether
Saunders, middle-aged and unheroic bachelor, with his precise little "burnsides," won the heart
of the pert Miss Pelham, precise in character if not always so in type. It is of no serious
consequence that she kept him from calling her Minnie until the psychological moment, and it
really doesn't matter that Thomas was days in advancing to the moment. It is only necessary
to break in upon them occasionally for the purpose of securing legal advice, or the equally
unromantic desire to have a bit of typewriting done. We are not alone in this heartless and
uncharitable obtrusion. Deppingham, phlegmatic soul, was forever disturbing Saunders with calls
to duty, although Saunders was brutish enough, in his British way, to maintain (in confidence,
of course) that he was in the employ of Lady Deppingham, or no one at all. Nevertheless, he
always lived under the shadow of duty. At any moment, his lordship was liable to send for him
to ask the time of day--or some equally important question. And this brings us to the hour
when Saunders unfolded his startling solution to the problem that confronted them all.

First, he confided in Britt, soberly, sagely and in perfect good faith. Britt was bowled over.
He stared at Saunders and gasped. Nearly two minutes elapsed before he could find words to
reply; which proves conclusively that it must have been something of a shock to him. When at
last he did express himself, however, there was nothing that could have been left unsaid--absolutely
nothing. He went so far as to call Saunders a doddering fool and a great many other things
that Saunders had not in the least expected.

The Englishman was stubborn. They had it back and forth, from legal and other points of view,
and finally Britt gave in to his colleague, reserving the right to laugh when it was all over.
Saunders, with a determination that surprised even himself, called for a conference of all
parties in Wyckholme's study, at four o'clock.

It was nearly six before Lady Deppingham arrived, although she had but forty steps to traverse.
Mr. and Mrs. Browne were there fully half an hour earlier. Deppingham appeared at four and
then went away. He was discovered asleep in the hanging garden, however, and at once joined
the others. Miss Pelham was present with her note book. The Princess was invited by Lady Deppingham,
who held no secrets from her, but the royal young lady preferred to go out walking with her
dogs. Pong, the red cocker, attended the session and twice snarled at Mr. Saunders, for no
other reason than that it is a dog's prerogative to snarl when and at whom he chooses.

"Now, what's it all about, Saunders?" demanded Deppingham, with a wide yawn. Saunders looked hurt.

"It is high time we were discussing some way out of our difficulties," he said. "Under ordinary
circumstances, my lady, I should not have called into joint consultation those whom I may be
pardoned for designating as our hereditary foes. Especially Mr. Browne. But, as my plan to
overcome the obstacle which has always stood in our way requires the co-operation of Mr. Browne,
I felt safe in asking him to be present. Mrs. Browne's conjugal interest is also worthy of
consideration." Mrs. Browne sniffed perceptibly and stared at the speaker. "But five weeks
remain before our stay is over. We all know, by this time, that there is little or no likelihood
of the estate being closed on schedule time. I think it is clear, from the advices we have,
that the estate will be tied up in the courts for some time to come, possibly a year or two.
From authoritative sources, we learn that the will is to be broken. The apparent impossibility
of marriage between Lady Deppingham and Mr. Browne naturally throws our joint cause into jeopardy.
There would be no controversy, of course, if the terms of the will could be carried out in
that respect. The islanders understand our position and seem secure in their rights. They imagine
that they have us beaten on the face of things. Consequently they are jolly well upset by the
news that we are to contest the will in the home courts. They are, from what I hear and observe,
pretty thoroughly angered. Now, the thing for us to do is to get married."

He came to this conclusion with startling abruptness. Four of his hearers stared at him in
blank amazement.

"Get married?" murmured first one, then another.

"Are you crazy?" demanded Browne. Britt was grinning broadly.

"Certainly not!" snapped Saunders.

"Oh, by Jove!" exclaimed Deppingham, relieved. "I see. You mean you contemplate getting married.
I congratulate you. You gave me quite a shock, Saund--"

"I don't mean anything of the sort, my lord," said Saunders getting very red in the face. Miss
Pelham looked up from her note book quickly. He winked at her, and her ladyship saw him do
it. "I mean that it is high time that Lady Deppingham and Mr. Browne were getting married.
We haven't much time to spare. It--"

"Good Lord!" gasped Bobby Browne. "You are crazy, after all."

"Open the window and give some air," said Britt coolly.

"See here, Saunders, what the devil is the matter with you?" roared Deppingham.

"My lord, I am here to act as your legal adviser," said Saunders with dignity. "May I be permitted
to proceed?"

"Rather queer legal advice, 'pon my word."

"Please let him explain," put in Mrs. Browne, whose sense of humour was strongly attracted
by this time. "If there is anything more to be learned concerning matrimony, I'd like to know it."

"Yes, Mr. Saunders, you may proceed," said Lady Agnes, passing a hand over her bewildered eyes. 

       * * * * *

No, but having spent three days in Toledo, which are sufficient for a traveler who is not artist,
I could barely pick up fast printing. Toledo is interesting for its social type and their merit
monumental, but the first I cared more than the second, more especially as suffer from complete
ignorance in architecture, painting and sculpture. As I can hardly make judgments, failing to
copy what others (art ugly I'm less versed even in fine arts), and
will indicate only the emotions felt.

Toledo lacks any industry. It's a dead city, or at least paralyzed. The there only draws attention
to the economic is the famous weapons factory, situated at the right bank of the Tagus, to
the west of the isthmus that I have described. I found it impossible to visit, because in
those days it was closed because of Easter, which the Spanish people and its analogs celebrated
with idleness. HOWEVER I knew that the weapons were Toledo the very same conditions as those
of ancient times. Centuries have passed over without The makers have been given by notified today
as manufacturing procedures are the same as now four years, unless the products have improved significantly.
Spain crushed the old steel with the same hammer. Modern civilization has not reached until
the railway station at the foot of Toledo.

From up there .... Careful touch the cobwebs!

In Toledo's monumental everything is interesting and curious all have a special type not found
in any other Spanish city with the same energy, even in Valencia, Sevilla, Cordoba and Granada. Wherever
they are alternating the Gothic and Moorish and some of the Renaissance, such promiscuity resulting
from the most striking contrasts .-- Me dwell on the most remarkable monuments nomas, which are
the jewels of the city where he ran Quevedo's childhood and the remains
of the hanged favorite Don Alvaro de Luna, the poet Mariana Moreto
and historian.

The cathedral is, without doubt, one of the most magnificent Catholic churches in Europe. Everything
is there huge, stern and grim, as the most typical Gothic cathedrals. If the external forms
and almost the whole of the building belong to the magnificent architecture, there are many
details However, as a famous Mozarabic chapel, under the Moorish style, having Cathedral been
subject to successive cambiamientos. Its splendid floor tiles blue and white marble, its five ships
daring held by eighty-four columns colossal twenty-three chapels curds and rich gold ornaments,
three large rosettes and seven hundred forty-seven circular or ogival windows covered with exquisite
glass colorfully painted to fire a thousand ornaments of columns and arches seventy-two of the
ships, superior lightness, the magnificence of the choir stalls, whose low reliefs are admirable,
the splendor of the treasures or jewels belonging to the temple, the deep echoes of the organs,
repeated in a thousand breasts of stone, the dark solemn enclosure, the paint beautiful paintings
that adorn the dark walls, and tingling the crowd of pious and curious, circulating as atoms
under the great mass: all that makes the Cathedral of Toledo, Maundy Thursday, an astounding
monument, places, captivates and makes mute ....

There he understands
the power of faith, which not only inspire the artists of the Middle
Ages but give them to their villages, workers Herculean strength to
lift those mountains carved common granite and stone, studded charms
that reveal all the tenacity patient a belief and the vagaries of
superstition.

There is also the force comprises propaganda that Catholicism has had in the past, through the powerful
fascination exerted on the masses by the majesty of the temples and the sovereign pomp of the cult
[2].

I compared the immense wealth locked in the "Treasury" of the cathedral, with the deep misery
of the lower classes of Toledo, a city that grows in isolation, without
industry, trade, agriculture and important, and sadly told me: "What
good would the Virgin of the Cathedral if, in imitation of Isabel
the Catholic, not to discover a world but to resurrect Toledo devote
their valuable jewelry great for a railroad to communicate to the
imperial ruin with all peoples of the magnificent Tagus Valley!

"In every cathedral in Spain, excluding values ​​more than the estate, can go a railroad, but there
is no risk of anything coming out, without thereby missing entries.

Fourteen without suppressed convents of friars, nuns and twenty, Toledo has also twenty churches
of the cathedral parish, nine public and six Mozarabic chapel. Thus, So people do not reach for
the churches. After the cathedral, the most notable as monuments are: San Juan-de-los-Reyes,
Christ-of-the-light, Transit and Santa María la white, - the last two ancient synagogues. It is
interesting to note that Toledo had during the domination Moorish
six churches, called Mozarabic, where Christians worship publicly
maintained them, with the express consent of the Moros.

It seems that those barbarous infidels were friends of the wickedness of modern philosophy called
for religious tolerance. The Inquisition Spanish later paid them to the Moors that tolerance
in very good money ....

The kings of Spain had the pious custom of celebrating military triumphs erection of churches,
now they were the Saracens, now in the Portuguese or other enemies. In Toro victory obtained against
Portugal, owes its existence to the beautiful church San Juan-de-los-Reyes, a florid Gothic
delicious, commissioned in 1476 by Fernando and Isabella, as it should be the triumph of Don
Alfonso VI, the conqueror of Toledo in the late XI, the importance
of curious chapel called Christ-of-the-light, where they performed
the first mass after the Saracens defeated there.

Call attention in foreign Kings Church a multitude of shackles, chains and other instruments in prison,
slopes of the walls to remember the martyrs of Spain, for all those irons are Granada were applied
to prisoners who were held by the Moors.

If the church, a nave, forming a Latin cross, is very elegant and beautiful ornaments, the faculty
is no less interesting, in spite of its debris, from a terrible fire in 1809. Curiously a huge
piece of excellent mosaic that lies almost abandoned in the vestibule. In the upper floor
was struck by a museum painting paintings, begun in 1840, made than 730 tables and set exactly
in the cell of the famous Cardinal Jiménez de Cisneros, first novice of the convent founded
there.

Christ-of-the-light is a curious miniature church, whose merit lies not only in the origin and seniority
but also on their unique proportions. Measures that toy mosque baptized about 18 feet long on 14
or 15 wide, with proportionate height, and is Byzantine-Arab style, with trends in some detail
the transition from first to funny second period of Saracen art. Six little ships crossed in
opposite directions threes, and supported by four granite columns,
very rough, which lie horseshoe-shaped arches, constitute the roof,
which is divided into nine domes almost microscopic all different,
but similar in style.

If you could start and transporting their foundations that toy of Moorish architecture, could be
in the best museum of antiquities like a jewel of inestimable value.

The church now called Santa Maria la Blanca, abandoned and deserted, was an elegant synagogue
built towards the end of XI century by the Jews of Toledo, corresponding to the time of transition
or second period of the Moorish style, and has interior decorations and forms a delicious
treat. The roof is a beautiful cedar paneling, and the whole body is divided into five naves; the total
being a rectangle that measures about 80 feet long and about 62 wide and 50 elevation in the
center. 32 columns holding the octagonal roof, stucco, four equal rows, and their capitals rise 28
horseshoe arches with beautiful arabesques which support orders other
precious columns, paired immediately supporting the ceilings.

These buildings, which were entirely unknown to me (if not in photo) my eyes were endless charm,
and made me conjure up a thousand memories of the history of Oriental peoples, defended in the years
of my youth. Under the same floor there deep underground that keep the remains of many Israelis.
How not to think me on the vicissitudes of humanity to abandon this ancient sanctuary of a
race that persecuted for eighteen centuries by all peoples in vast and heinous gang has regenerate
the world in the nineteenth century, with the power of their enormous capital and industrial
activity and commercial town on the European banks, railways, warehouses and factories! The
Israelites have retaliated by chasing people, giving them the progress and prosperity and organizing
credit ....

No less curious, though very different proportions, is the other synagogue, now called Church
Traffic built in the middle of the fourteenth century. Don Pedro the Cruel was not much, according
to seems, with the rich Jews, and allowed his famous and favorite treasurer, Samuel Levi, erection
of this beautiful sanctuary of the Israelite religion. His only holds a beautiful ship coffered
ceiling, the walls are a rich stucco, adorned with beautiful mosaic tiles, and carved with the most
gorgeous arabesques of the third period of Moorish architecture, completely Andalusia. Synagogue
that resembles many of its details to a splendid hall the Alhambra or the Alcazar of Seville.

Enough of churches for the patient reader. About Don Pedro the Cruel, is notable for its historical
interest and its grim proportions the house or palace that dwell in Toledo Wild crowned. It
is a report building and heavy, which gives the idea of ​​dungeons and causes certain thrill
to the traveler who knows something the old stories of old Spain. Apart from the rubble of the
Alcázar admirable, are interesting in Toledo some of their doors monuments, which give access
to the city roads in shell, supported by great embankments, the magnificent bridge of Alcantara, a single
arc and all of granite and school military was building façade convent and chapel, cloisters
and staircase can admire the traveler a multitude of interesting
art objects.

For the rest Toledo is entirely a huge and complicated monument. Here everything is funny and
unique attention and all foreign forces to stop at every step. In each street, every corner,
every doorway or wall, balcony or window, you see some precious object to the antiquarian, surprising
for the traveler who goes first as a city special like that. Here there is a beautiful mosaic
piece, a beautiful marble tile, a rare bust of stone or a historical inscription; there with
ogival window, a balcony Moorish, an unusual viewpoint, a Gothic turret or a lamentable debris.
Toledo is the cemetery magnificent two civilizations, two races,
each building is a tomb and each door or wall contains an epitaph
....

We hasten to speak of that wonderful bygone quickly called the
Fortress, for end with the monumental and show the reader some features
of the social physiognomy of Toledo.

This remarkable ruin is situated on the eastern side of the city on a hill overlooking while the
depths to Toledo and the Tagus. The foundations and different bodies and Alcazar facades dating
from very different eras. Founded in the same place a fortress Roman, Gothic and immediately
after Arabic, the conqueror of Toledo, Alfonso VI, several times mentioned, gave more great
ways, governor of the castle doing nothing less than the Cid heroic. Many kings improved on the
famous fortress, until Charles V decided to demolish almost all buildings over, keeping only
a facade Gothic cellars and formidable foundation. Felipe II finished the work, invested in her
fifty years that have passed from 1534 to 1584, and worked there the most eminent artists as Villalpando,
Covarrubias and Juan de Herrera.

In 1710 was burnt the palace-fortress admirable by Allied troops who fought against Philip
V in the war of succession. Restored care, incendiáronlo his turn in 1810 the invading French
troops, leaving small to a sublime debris. Today there are but the interior and exterior walls,
the towers broken, the four splendid facades, basements and foundations, no no roofs, torn
arcs that bound the walls, empty holes of the balconies and all in ruin.

! But what a ruin! That is impressive and grand as a mountain naked, indestructible granite and
brick hard. To wander in the midst of these colossal masses, for those big stone steps on many
vaults of unprecedented strength and singular audacity, and in the dark depths of the vast underground
(which once harbored entire infantry regiments and cavalry), one feels possessed of a deep respect
for the genius of the architects, and acquires, questioning the echoes of these formidable works,
the whole idea of ​​a civilization terrible, founded on force and artificial antagonism, from whose womb
was born, for a of these wonders of the divine mystery of progress, the new civilization that
has its only principle of freedom and justice.

The Alcazar is a 200 square feet per side, which has four different facades, magnificent, that despite
some general harmony correspond to different styles of architecture
dominate the Renaissance.

One of the facades, the oldest, is Gothic in its general character, although its details later,
is of the Renaissance. Four massive towers, at the corners, frame the building, giving different
aspects according to the side where it provides. It consists of three parts or floors, excluding
the basement, which is on one side. The interior is sumptuously snatching, in spite of its ruinous
state. The Super Cellars palace-fortress that could contain thousands of soldiers, prisoners
and horses, food, and ammunition and weapons on a large scale, in short, a whole small army garrison
or strong, can withstand long siege. A huge subway leading from the bottom of this artificial
mountain to the very distant margin the Tagus, to a great depth, to give drink to the horses,
take water river, etc.., etc. This was great about the system architecture
of old Spain, which has left everywhere the most superb monuments.

* * * * *

Nothing more interesting than the spectacle of the plazas and streets of Toledo during the
procession Holy Thursday. Of course it chose for the passage of Christ and the Virgin streets
less impossible, the ecclesiastical and popular support has to go through the most large cracks
to find a way out for those possessed outstanding and air passages free. Everyone is close,
rubs, put in the press and choke, resulting from confusion and distress the most striking contrasts
in the thousand groups that move among those gorges. The sumptuous luxury of the great lady from
Madrid or Toledo, covered in velvet, of rich lace and jewels, there has to rub against the RAID
layer of cloth and peeled time light brown and grimy after a yellow inscrutable, which is the
ornament Toledo indispensable, - worker, treating or beggar, and the manchego and all inhabitants
of Castile.

       

In Toledo absolutely missing in the lower classes these colorful costumes, colors Live and whimsical
cuts, which are in Valencia, Seville and other cities less impregnated Castilian applications.
In Toledo everything is sad, and a man of some comfort, as artisan and the Pauper, all have an
air of antiquity, sorrow, ruin and misery The dark makes the eyes of travelers. When I wandered
through the long and complicated tumult of the procession, carried away in all directions by
a yellowish layer wave blankets and black, seemed to me to attend a carnival of death. Over my head,
at one and On the other hand, saw the low balconies full of women and children, looking to crush
the pedestrians falling like huge clusters, while the appearance of the streets and mobility
of shadowy groups had no resemblance to know what the tiny waves and rock groups black within
a reef, waving wildly in a storm day.

The bands of beggars swarm and travel there everywhere, besieging the country without truce.
Surrendered to fight with the masses movent in the procession, I sat on a bench stone in the shade of
some trees in the main square, called Oven Biscuits. Was thirsty and bought some oranges. Cayéronme
point in sheaf closed, seven or eight guys hungry, the closest, asking each one an orange, or
a little kid, as they call beggars copper coins called farthing. Alejáronse happy to receive some
coins, and I thought his release quietly eating my oranges. But in brief attacked again in
greater numbers, to contest the bark that I threw to the ground; and I had to get in except
that no halt between prepubertal maelstrom of beggars. They are not enough coins and oranges,
because in a moment swallowed all bark like pieces of bread!

That scene affected me deeply, especially since I knew that this example
of misery was no exception.

Toledo, however much they do not come out of poverty. It is a rubble will not resurrection but
to under extraordinary efforts. Being the mother church the country (where the canons are very
happy) and having a great school and a military garrison wonderful sights and a total lack of industry,
Toledo is a set of four main revealed in four different dresses: the cassock of the priest, the
uniform of turns yellow and red military, odd overseas elegant avocado, and layer ratty beggar's
sickening. Founded with a military target, according to the ideas of another civilization,
- to be a strength - the isolation is the condition of Toledo. You can not have industry because
no water to move machines, but having no tanks or tanks, nor has elements for trade and agriculture,
for its exceptional position. Toledo, then, will remain sublime ruin, a great curiosity and
nothing more: the museum of old Spain, guarded by clerics, soldiers and beggars! ...

Toledo offered me the occasion to test my stomach and check the reputation (usurped legitimate
one and another) of the pot and wine rotten Valdepeñas. During the three days I spent in the
imperial Toledo, so beautifully sung by Zorrilla, I was forced to resign the flesh, receiving the
law from the situation. But as there was no fish, no eggs, no milk, is at the discretion of the cooked
chickpeas and other iniquities of Spanish cuisine, neutralizing something my misfortune with
good shots of an exquisite Valdepeñas. This, HOWEVER, had the audacity of subírseme at the head,
without ceremony, forcing me to multiply the brews coffee. Finally had mercy on me and sent me
the hostess serving pot .-- "A Spanish stew! I said with transportation, let this be better than the Cathedral
and the Alcazar. "

! Mentirosa illusion! I had already made some unsatisfactory experiences in Barcelona and Valencia,
on the rotten pot, and had found such sophistry as the monarchy Spain constitutional. In Toledo,
the illusion is over, the pot legitimate completed his mission on
Spanish soil, now belongs to history as the former greatness of the
people conqueror of the New World.

Today there are the glories of the ignoble but chickpea stew cooked, capable of indigestible
an elephant, the vile and shameless pork sausage, which has lost its importance since the Moors
and Jews have accepted the wickedness of the kitchen and Christian cellar. Disappointed and hungry,
I had to devote all my worship in Toledo Dining Valencia oranges to rich and bold Valdepeñas.

Despite some unpleasant impressions, Toledo had pleased me much by his teaching social, no less than its
monuments. Had been able to compare the old Spain represented in Toledo, with Spain and progressive
regenerated revealed in Barcelona and Madrid - the first based on the isolation, motionless,
sluggish, too much prayer leader, miserable and begging: the second
looking for progress in freedom and movement, carefree, tolerant and
thinking seriously about the future.

I said goodbye to Toledo as the one just visited a grave and out of the cemetery to long strides
back to look back from time to time, mixed feelings of sadness and hope ....

* * * * *

CHAPTER V.

* * * * *

LA MANCHA.

Two traveling companions aspects of the country .-- .-- .-- Memories of Don Quixote of La Mancha populations
- The Sierra Morena.
 He was merely giving voice to his
pain and regret at seeing me in such bad company." He was smiling calmly and did not take a
single step to follow them to safety.

"Come in, Chase! Don't stand out there to be shot at."

"I'll stay here for a few minutes, Mr. Browne, if you don't mind, just to convince you all
that the shot was not intended to kill. They're not ready to kill me yet. I'm sure Lord Deppingham
will understand. He has been shot at often enough since he came to the island."

"By Jove, I should rather say I have," blurted out Deppingham. "'Pon my word, they had a shot
at me every time I tried to pluck a flower at the roadside. I've got so used to it that I resent
it when they don't have a try at me."

"Think it was Von Blitz?" asked Browne.

"No. He couldn't hit the château at two hundred yards. It is a native. They shoot like fury."
He lighted a cigarette and coolly leaned against the column, his gaze bent on the spot where
the smoke had been seen. The others were grouped inside the doors, where they could see without
being seen. A certain sense of horror possessed all of the watchers. It was as if they were
waiting to see him fall with a bullet in his breast--executed before their eyes. Several minutes
passed.

"For heaven's sake, why does he stand there?" cried the Princess at last. "I can endure it
no longer. It may be as he says it is, but it is foolhardy to stand there and taunt the pride
of that marksman. I can't stay here and wait for it to come. How can--"

"He's been there for ten minutes, Princess," said Browne. "Plenty of time for another try."

"I am not afraid to stand beside him," said Lady Agnes suddenly. She had conquered her dread
and saw the chance for something theatrical. Her husband grasped her arm as she started toward
the Enemy.

"None of that, Aggie," he said sharply.

Before they were aware of her intention, the Princess left the shelter and boldly walked across
the open space to the side of the man. He started and opened his lips to give vent to a sharp
command.

"It is so easy to be a hero, Mr. Chase, when one is quite sure there is no real danger," she
said, with distinct irony in her tones. "One can afford to be melodramatic if he knows his
part so well as you know yours."

Chase felt his face burn. It was a direct declaration that he had planned the whole affair
in advance. He flicked the ashes from his cigarette and then tossed it away, hesitating long
before replying.

"Nevertheless, I have the greatest respect for the courage which brings you to my side. I daresay
you are quite justified in your opinion of me. It all must seem very theatrical to you. I had
not thought of it in that light. I shall now retire from the centre of the stage. It will be
perfectly safe for you to remain here--just as it was for me." He was leaving her without another
word or look. She repented.

"I am sorry for what I said," she said eagerly. "And--" she looked up at the hills with a sudden
widening of her eyes--"I think I shall not remain."

He waited for her and they crossed to the entrance together.

Luncheon was quite well over before the spirits of the party reacted from the depression due
to the shooting. Chase made light of the occurrence, but sought to impress upon the others
the fact that it was prophetic of more serious events in the future. In a perfectly cold-blooded
manner he told them that the islanders might rise against them at any time, overstepping the
bounds of England's law in a return to the primeval law of might. He advised the occupants
of the château to exercise extreme caution at all times.

"The people are angry and they will become desperate. Their interests are mine, of course.
I am perfectly sincere in saying to you, Lady Deppingham, and to you, Mr. Browne, that in time
they will win out against you in the courts. But they are impatient; they are not the kind
who can wait and be content. It is impossible for you to carry out the provisions of the will,
and they know it. That is why they resent the delays that are impending."

Deppingham told him of the scheme proposed by Saunders, treating it as a vast joke. Chase showed
a momentary sign of uneasiness, but covered it instantly by laughing with the others. Strange
to say, he had been instructed from London to look out for just such a coup on the part of
the heirs. Not that the marriage could be legally established, but that it might create a complication
worth avoiding.

He could not help looking from Lady Deppingham to Bobby Browne, a calculating gleam in his
grey eyes. How very dangerous she could be! He was quite ready to feel very sorry for pretty
Mrs. Browne. Browne, of course, revealed no present symptom of surrender to the charms of his
co-legatee. Later on, he was to recall this bit of calculation and to enlarge upon it from
divers points of view.

Just now he was enjoying himself for the first time since his arrival in Japat. He sat opposite
to the Princess; his eyes were refreshing themselves after months of fatigue; his blood was
coursing through new veins. And yet, his head was calling his heart a fool.

CHAPTER XVII

THE PRINCESS GOES GALLOPING

A week passed--an interesting week in which few things happened openly, but in which the entire
situation underwent a subtle but complete change. The mail steamer had come and gone. It brought
disconcerting news from London. Chase was obliged to tell the islanders that notice of a contest
had been filed. The lineal heirs had pooled their issues and were now fighting side by side.
The matter would be in chancery for months, even years. He could almost feel the gust of rage
and disappointment that swept over the island--although not a word came from the lips of the
sullen population. The very silence was foreboding.

He did not visit the château during that perplexing week. It was hard, but he resolutely kept
to the path of duty, disdaining the pleasures that beckoned to him. Every day he saw and talked
with Britt and Saunders. They, as well as the brisk Miss Pelham, gave him the "family news"
from the château. Saunders, when he was not moping with the ague of love, indulged in rare
exhibitions of joy over the turn affairs were taking with his client and Bobby Browne. It did
not require extraordinary keenness on Chase's part to gather that her ladyship and Browne had
suddenly decided to engage in what he would call a mild flirtation, but what Saunders looked
upon as a real attack of love.

"If I had the nerve, I'd call Browne good and hard," said Britt, over his julep. "It isn't
right. It isn't decent. No telling what it will come to. The worst of it is that his wife doesn't
blame him. She blames her. They disappear for hours at a time and they've always got their
heads together. I've noticed it for a month, but it's got worse in the last week. Poor little
Drusilla. She's from Boston, Chase, and can't retaliate. Besides, Deppingham wouldn't take
notice if she tried."

"There's one safeguard," said Chase. "They can't elope on this island."

"They can't, eh? Why, man, they could elope in the château and nobody could overtake 'em. You've
no idea how big it is. The worst of it is, Deppingham has got an idea that they may try to
put him out of the way--him and Drusilla. Awful, isn't it?"

"Perfect rot, Britt. You'll find that it turns out all right in the end. I'd bank on Lady Deppingham's
cool little head. Browne may be mad, but she isn't."

"It won't help me any unless both of 'em are mad," said Britt, with a wry face. "And, say,
by the way, Saunders is getting to dislike you intensely."

"I can't help it if he loves the only stenographer on the island," said Chase easily. "You
seem to be the only one who isn't in hot water all the time, Britt."

"Me and the Princess," said Britt laconically. Chase looked up quickly, but the other's face
was as straight as could be. "If you were a real gentleman you would come around once in a
while and give her something to talk to, instead of about."

"Does she talk about me?" quite steadily.

"They all do. I've even heard the white handmaidens discussing you in glowing terms. You're
a regular matinee hero up there, my--"

"Selim!" broke in Chase. The Arab came to the table immediately. "Don't put so much liquor
in Mr. Britt's drinks after this. Mostly water." Britt grinned amiably.

They sipped through their straws in silence for quite a while. Both were thinking of the turn
affairs were taking at the château.

"I say, Britt, you're not responsible for this affair between Browne and Lady Deppingham, are
you?" demanded Chase abruptly.

"I? What do you mean?"

"I was just wondering if you could have put Browne up to the game in the hope that a divorce
or two might solve a very difficult problem."

"Now that you mention it, I'm going to look up the church and colonial divorce laws," said
Britt non-committally, after a moment.

"I advise you to hurry," said Chase coolly. "If you can divorce and marry 'em inside of four
weeks, with no court qualified to try the case nearer than India, you are a wonder."

Chase was in the habit of visiting the mines two or three times a week during work hours. The
next morning after his conversation with Britt, he rode out to the mines. When he reached the
brow of the last hill, overlooking the wide expanse in which the men toiled, he drew rein sharply
and stared aghast at what lay before him.

Instead of the usual activity, there was not a man in sight. It was some time before his bewildered
brain could grasp the meaning of the puzzle. Selim, who rode behind, came up and without a
word directed his master's attention to the long ridge of trees that bordered the broken hillsides.
Then he saw the miners. Five hundred half-naked brown men were congregated in the shade of
the trees, far to the right. By the aid of his glasses he could see that one of their number
was addressing them in an earnest, violent harangue. It was not difficult, even at that distance,
to recognise the speaker as Von Blitz. From time to time, the silent watchers saw the throng
exhibit violent signs of emotion. There were frequent gesticulations, occasional dances; the
faint sound of shouts came across the valley.

Chase shuddered. He knew what it meant. He turned to Selim, who sat beside him like a bronze
statue, staring hard at the spectacle.

"How about Allah now, Selim?" he asked sententiously.

"Allah is great, Allah is good," mumbled the Moslem youth, but without heart.

"Do you think He can save me from those dogs?" asked the master, with a kindly smile.

"Sahib, do not go among them to-day," implored Selim impulsively.

"They are expecting me, Selim. If I don't come, they will know that I have funked. They'll
know I am afraid of them."

"Do not go to-day," persisted Selim doggedly. Suddenly he started, looking intently to the
left along the line of the hill. Chase followed the direction of his gaze and uttered a sharp
exclamation of surprise.

Several hundred yards away, outlined against the blue sky beyond the knob, stood the motionless
figure of a horse and its rider--a woman in a green habit. Chase could hardly believe his eyes.
It did not require a second glance to tell him who the rider was; he could not be mistaken
in that slim, proud figure. Without a moment's hesitation he turned his horse's head and rode
rapidly toward her. She had left the road to ride out upon the crest of the green knob. Chase
was in the mood to curse her temerity.

As he came up over the slope, she turned in the saddle to watch his approach. He had time to
see that two grooms from the stables were in the road below her. There was a momentary flash
of surprise and confusion in her eyes, succeeded at once by a warm glow of excitement. She
smiled as he drew up beside her, not noticing his unconscious frown.

"So those are the fabulous mines of Japat," she said gaily, without other greeting. "Where
is the red glow from the rubies?"

His horse had come to a standstill beside hers. Scarcely a foot separated his boot from her
animal's side. If she detected the serious look in his face, she chose to ignore it.

"Who gave you permission to ride so far from the château?" he demanded, almost harshly. She
looked at him in amazement.

"Am I a trespasser?" she asked coldly.

"I beg your pardon," he said quickly. It is a sea
half flooded grass bounded by the ocean itself. The banks of the river are extremely low, so
that in times of increasing spill produced a comprehensive flood plains literally being turned
into a continuation of the sea. When we there the land was discovered and populated yegüerizos
numerous herds. For around the horizon were many bands of wild ducks, pelicans and other pink
acuátiles killed in the marshes, surrounded by cows, sheep and ponies, while these grazing
lazily or gathered in large numbers to defend the burning sun, which to ferment the backwaters
and the vast plains scorched completely devoid trees. Did not seem very avantajadas these calves,
the vaccine has no growth remarkable, and the horse is very inferior to his reputation. He noted
that there is exaggeration in what is usually said of the Andalusian horses, both in Seville
and Cordoba Granada.

The Guadalquivir, an average width of 130 meters between nearby Seville
and San-Lucar has usually shallow, the channel, variable due to heavy
floods of sand clay to navigation imposes many difficulties for some
months, and around him precautions are required and a special form
of the vessels to avoid groundings.

Throughout the journey you will find many marine boats, anchored or underway, that up or down to
the trailer or taking advantage of the tides and winds. Thus, the Guadalquivir is a commercial
aspect that prepares the traveler to the economic movement of Seville, very lively and significantly.

After
several hours of sailing, when we were approaching to Seville, topography began to be different, picturesque
landscapes happening to the sad monotony of the coast. The banks of the river were more steep,
the river much narrower, and instead of grass the low marsh in sight had many orchards and crops
of wheat happy and vegetables long lines of poplars and willows in again and margin, more or less
extensive forests, a delightful freshness and vigor, and steep ravines
raised on which stand graciously to Seville some neighboring towns.

At last we passed the foot of the parks splendid Duke of Montpensier, and we poke, to turn a
corner (above the groves, numerous launches and steamers and the picturesque buildings of the port),
the domes tower called the Gold and Silver, glowing and poetic, overlooking the river as monumental
two jewels designed to alert the traveler that Seville is the wealthy and gentle metropolis of the country
where deep scars left its Moorish domination, without erasing the Roman.

The weighted beauty of Seville and the vast plain that surrounds it, I strongly wish to the occasion
to contemplate it in its entirety. Your situation and suggest configuration naturally climbing
the tower of the Giralda, above all, to admire the whole picture to view bird. Once settled
in the beautiful hotel "London" (one of the many fine and well has served the city) went through
the splendid square of the Infanta Isabel, from the which we saw the huge mass of the famous
tower, visible from almost every street in Seville. A few hundred meters from the square we
find the impressive cathedral and the tower is located backwards
and form a separate building but connected by later buildings.

Nothing greater than this monument of glowing dome, which shines in the sun as a huge jewel suspended
in the ether. Looking at her it feels full of admiration for the great simplicity that she wanted
to give the Eastern or Moorish genius. That air archangel bronze golden crowns the dome and
turns like a weather vane, is in blue do not know what causes to scale the height to sink the
gaze alternately in the sky and the sea of ​​houses glowing and wonderful countryside around
them. The tower, perfectly square at its Moorish until very considerable
height, was completed long after conquest, and unfortunately a completely
different style.

Thus, until the region of Bell is the Arab civilization, finishing his work the fine architecture
of the Renaissance. The total lifting of the Giralda is 364 feet, being at the same highest
form there in Spain. The body of the tower is 50 feet per side. You enter it by a miserable little
door, and rises to the enormous height of the bells for 35 ramps or sloping corridors without
any tier. Then, for very narrow staircases hand, can be dangerous ascension to the bronze figure
is named Giralda. There feels like a vertigo ... something like the flamboyant desire to fly
over the abyss.

The show is viewed from there is of supreme beauty, but still wonderful (Except the sea view) than that
of Valencia. On one side are the mountains far vaguely Sierra de Ronda ending chain of the Sierra-Nevada.
The other plains lower Guadalquivir, stretching to the horizon in the direction of the ocean. To the
north are more or less the Córdoba Mountains, spurs of the Sierra Morena Finally, tending view
to east in the direction of the high Andalusia, are plain to be beautiful are raising degrees
even lost in the undulating hills and mountains that turn through the center of the basin
of the Guadalquivir to Jaén. The horizon is immense and admirably beautiful.

Picking up the look in a small circle, is all over the opulent plain gorgeous for cultivation, careful,
their large populations, their graceful cottages, their swarms small flocks, country homes,
orchards and gardens, and its labyrinth of trees and in groups more or less extensive, and
in rows or streets glittering with vegetables, where orange alternate with vineyards, olive
groves, endless fields sown with vegetables cereals, etc.. And amid the vast plains will slow
snail Guadalquivir as a gray ribbon, with the most graceful twists and turns.

Localities more or less considerable, but all look industrious and
homogenous, multiply in all directions.

There are on, with the aid of glasses or no it (in the direction of the road Ecija and Cordoba),
the towns of Alcala de Guadaira and Mairena, and then the hills (full of people too) who dominate
the town of Carmona, enough people. On the other hand (to Jeremy) Utrera and Oran, and to the
right of the Guadalquivir among other populations, San-Lucar la Mayor, Encarnacion and Alcalá-of-river.

The
province of Seville, the sixth in Spain in order of population, has 463.486 inhabitants. The countryside,
highly cultured, have a very abundant population, robust, vigorous and lover of work, while
the passionate pleasures.

Quite the reverse of Castilian regions, loneliness is not manifested at any point in the province
of Seville, abound and the small towns of 1.000 to 4.000 souls. However, they do note some considerable
cities, centers of a vast agricultural production is mainly wine, oil, cereals, grains, livestock
of all kinds, vegetables and fruits. The most notable of these, cities are:

Sevilla, which has (even the new suburbs outside the fortifications)
112.600 inhabitants

Ecija, with 28.800

Carmona, with 18.800.

Osuna 17.500

Utrera, with 14.000

Marchena, with 13.000

Alcalá de Guadaira, with 8.260

All these people although they are primarily agricultural centers,
feed a crowd manufacturing, factories and workshops of all kinds,
which increase the animation of the country, and we give a lot of
economic interest.

Sevilla alone has some large branches and factories manufactures
special importance, - such as its superb casting of guns and cannons,
their nitrería, and especially its vast manufacturing of cigarettes
(by the State that is), which gives 4.000 labor to workers, establishment
worth a visit with pleasure and interest.

Specifying the view over the city, the scene is so curious and beautiful.

The Guadalquivir describing a semicircle around a large part the precincts
of the city proper, screened and enclosed by walls, it is said, dates
from the time of Caesar, and numerous Isolated strong today are useless
if only by their obvious inferiority about the progress of the strategy
and architecture brutal selfishness, isolation and death.

On either side you look at all interested in its quirks and contrasts funny, and the details
stand out. At around the nine suburbs, which only one, the de Triana, inhabited by Gypsies,
which is the most populous, is at the margin right of the Guadalquivir, linked to the city by a
beautiful suspension bridge. Very close bridge on the port itself, stands the lovely golden dome of
the Torre de Oro, which seems glittering scaly.

At the foot of the Giralda tower we saw the great mass of the cathedral and romantic, whose dark
Gothic style and color made her look a granite mountain shattered in one hundred peaks, needles,
bold arches and huge cracks. It was like an extinct volcano, imposing Fear for no majesty of its
great time-blackened rubble. Next of the cathedral, the splendid palace of stone and marble called the
Market or Bolsa, which was the famous "House of Trade" for the India trade. The beautiful
little further called the Alcazar Moorish monument, surrounded by delightful gardens which are
themselves Sevilla treasure. And far beyond even the immense edifice of tobacco manufacturing,
Modern and elegant palace of San Telmo (owned by the Duke of Montpensier) to the edge of a vast
and beautiful park that stretches on the left bank of the Guadalquivir.

Looking in another direction, is in the suburb of San Roque the monument
called Canos de Carmona, impressive Roman aqueduct of 410 arches,
and to one side the great factory of saltpetre, in the suburb Resolana
of the beautiful hospital of Charity and the Arsenal, in the splendid
Macarena military hospital, and St. Bernard's famous bronze cannon
foundry.

Else is a labyrinth of narrow winding streets, buildings uneven, capricious, many bizarre shapes
of them, whose swarm centenarians coconut trees stand and Historical, many exquisite palaces
or houses of the same style as those observed in Cadiz, and a lump of balconies, roofs, turrets and
Moorish buildings, brownish glow at the bottom of the towers and domes of many churches in
Arabic style, shining, picturesque on account of the flake-shaped roofs formed with small
tiles mixed colors.

Add to the interest of the thousand details of the delicacy of the interior vegetation, and include
the beauty of that pangram semi-oriental and semi-Spanish at the same time. The orchards and
gardens are numerous, not only in the suburbs but also in the center
of the city, carefully kept in the courtyards.

So, are the masses of the buildings as a huge trail of uneven rocks amid a sea of ​​pomegranate, orange,
lemon, and millions of jasmine flowers that fill the air with perfume. Sevilla deserved his fame:
is a haven of greenery and curiosities of all kinds.

* * * * *

After having a general idea of ​​the Andalusian metropolis, as a material object, we descended
La Giralda to go and observe the customs of their society. Walking the streets, penetrating
in cafes and hotels, visiting the elegant homes and gardens, and scanning monumental objects Sevilla
abounds, it recognizes the essential point type or characteristic of that society, ardent and
poetic for its blood and its climate, independent and proud by being
that it seeks to actively work, and passionate in the extreme.

Sevilla is a huge museum, in the full force of the word, and materially and morally. The feeling
artistic background of the character is from Seville, in all classes of society - now disclosed
in the construction of sumptuous elegance, now in the candid demonstrations - and predominant
taste (simple or refined) in the customs and usages, simply because the picturesque and rudimentary.
The picturesque adjective is undoubtedly the type that fits better Seville. At the bottom of everything
that lives there and stirred, as the inanimate, a manifestation vigorous poetry, a tendency
to wonder, expansion sentimental, he can not escape the observer.

       

There is a trait that does not attend to impress the foreigner in this regard .-- The thousand beauties
of the houses belonging to wealthy families, where marble, flowers and decorations and colors vivid
and seductive are lavished, the grace and freshness of the thousands of yards, that summer nights are
converted into classrooms, the care with which many are preserved scented gardens and orchards,
where the waters abound not stop jumping ever, the enthusiasm that all manifest: for the naive
paintings and sculptural objects, either regardless of their quality, the thousand funny quirks
of all the portals, balconies, cabinets, viewpoints air and the barred windows (which make such
an important role in the adventures love or mere gallantry), the luxury and artifice of the
shops and stores, glittering of workmanship, jewelry, silks, art and trinkets, the taste for
variety, apart the requirement of the climate, is an art, whether it is made, either through
their use; passion for bullfighting, theater, horseback riding, tightrope walkers and all games ios class
entertainment, love the game, under almost all its forms, passion in that work of art, in a sense,
and taste so wonderful, unexpected, or random, the unique energy
penchant for the picturesque and outstanding, which is manifested
in folk dresses, whether by their forms, either by their ornaments
or by a combination of bright colors and shining; charm with all the
music they love happy and passionate, passionate dancing, horseback
riding and careers, fairs, processions, etc., the strange forms and
motifs of gear riding, weapons and musical instruments, the sum abundance
of shops, factories small and workshops, where thousands of employees
work (isolated or in small groups) the making of a thousand works
of art: all that and some other circumstances that step high artistic
express deep feeling of Seville.

And it can not be otherwise, considering how powerful the influence they exert on moral education
of a people the nature and objects around him constantly and impress. The Seville, at birth, is
the notion of beauty and inspiration of poetry in all which is in sight. A wonderful sky with
a sun that warms and enlivens the blood., A prodigious fertility land, giving as they are required,
a vegetation essentially poetic; such as olive and orange trees, lemons and pomegranates, water
and perfumes in abundance for give joy and pleasure, an easy life, thanks to the topographical
conditions of the country, wine (The great tempter that incites pleasure) good, strong and in abundance.
On the other hand, monuments and race predispose to the love of art. From start to march, to live,
everywhere are wonderful monuments, beautiful on the outside and filled with treasures inside,
and beautiful faces are observed. I have not ever seen a race so strongly beautiful as that
of Seville, and I think it will rival in Europe, if not in some regions Eastern Hungary and in
some provinces of Italy.

The beauty is so general in the types of Seville that is almost vulgar. There is no severe
Spanish beauty majesty or beauty impassive and cold of the English, or artificial grace (somewhat
intentionally) of the French, nor the harsh and almost brutal beauty of Valencia. The man is generally
of high stature, - the wife of small-regular if Height .-- Despite the differences that determines
sex everywhere, there are certain features that are common to men and women in Seville: forms
slender, thin but strong; black hair, silky and shining, rarely curled, finely arched black
eyebrows; upper teeth and very white, a soft complexion and ruddy
brown color, very attractive; very dark eyes, vivid, intelligent and
quickly go through the 1st of more Ardentía more passionate tenderness
to the smiling and friendly, a ride full of abandonment and grace,
naturally faddish and as tempting without malice, the lilting voice,
soft and sonorous, accented dramatically at the end of predictions,
and always passionate interjections and salt idioms provincial - not
counting the popular pronunciation that changes the sound of 1st r,
1st l, 1a s, The 1st z, etc. in the most original and spicy - these
are the general features of type Seville.

 Lady Agnes, laughing softly, followed. "It's too bad she's down to marry
that horrid little Brabetz," she said to herself, with a sudden wistful glance at the proud,
vibrant, loveable creature ahead. "She deserves a better fate than that."

Genevra waited for her at the head of the stairway.

"Agnes, I'd like you to promise that you will keep your avaricious claws off Mrs. Browne's
husband," she said, seriously.

"I'll try, my dear," said Lady Agnes meekly.

When they reached the garden, they found Deppingham smoking furiously and quite alone. Chase
had left some time before, to give warning to the English bank that trouble might be expected.
The shadow of disappointment that flitted across Genevra's face was not observed by the others.
Bobby Browne and his wife were off strolling in the lower end of the park.

"Poor old Deppy," cried his wife. "I've made up my mind to be exceedingly nice to you for a
whole day."

"I suppose I ought to beat you," he said slowly.

"Beat me? Why, pray?"

"I received an anonymous letter this morning, telling me of your goings-on with Bobby Browne,"
said he easily. "It was stuck under my door by Bromley, who said that Miss Pelham gave it to
her. Miss Pelham referred me to Mr. Britt and Mr. Britt urged me to keep the letter for future
reference. I think he said it could be used as Exhibit A. Then he advised me to beat you only
in the presence of witnesses."

"The whole household must be going mad," cried Genevra with a laugh.

"Oh, if something only would happen!" exclaimed her ladyship. "A riot, a massacre--anything!
It all sounds like a farce to you, Genevra, but you haven't been here for five months, as we have."

As they moved away from the vine-covered nook in the garden, a hand parted the leaves in the
balcony above and a dark, saturnine face appeared behind it. The two women would have felt
extremely uncomfortable had they known that a supposedly trusted servant had followed them
from the distant corridor, where he had heard every word of their conversation. This secret
espionage had been going on for days in the château; scarcely a move was made or a word spoken
by the white people that escaped the attention of a swarthy spy. And, curiously enough, these
spies were no longer reporting their discoveries to Hollingsworth Chase.

The days passed. Hollingsworth Chase now realised that he no longer had authority over the
natives; they suffered him to come and go, but gave no heed to his suggestions. Rasula made
the reports for the islanders and took charge of the statements from the bank.

Every morning he rode boldly into the town, transacted what business he could, talked with
the thoroughly disturbed bankers, and then defiantly made his way to the château. He was in
love with the Princess-- desperately in love. He understood perfectly--for he was a man of
the world and cosmopolitan--that nothing could come of it. She was a princess and she was not
in a story book; she could not marry him. It was out of the question; of that he was thoroughly
convinced, even in the beginning.

So far as Genevra was concerned, on her part it could mean no more than a diversion, a condescension
to coquetry, a simple flirtation; it meant the passing of a few days, the killing of time,
the pleasure of gentle conquest, and then--forgetfulness. All this he knew and reckoned with,
for she was a princess and he but a plebeian passing by.

At first she revolted against the court he so plainly paid to her in these last few days; it
was bold, conscienceless, impertinent. She avoided him; she treated him to a short season of
disdain; she did all in her power to rebuke his effrontery--and then in the end she surrendered
to the overpowering vanity which confronts all women who put the pride of caste against the
pride of conquest.

She decided to give him as good as he sent in this brief battle of folly; it mattered little
who came off with the fewest scars, for in a fortnight or two they would go their separate
ways, no better, no worse for the conflict. And, after all, it was very dull in these last
days, and he was very attractive, and very brave, and very gallant, and, above all, very sensible.
It required three days of womanly indecision to bring her to this way of looking at the situation.

They rode together in the park every morning, keeping well out of range of marksmen in the
hills. A sense of freedom replaced the natural reserve that had marked their first encounters
in this little campaign of tenderness; they gave over being afraid of each other. He was too
shrewd, too crafty to venture an open declaration; too much of a gentleman to force her hand
ruthlessly. She understood and appreciated this considerateness. Their conflict was with the
eyes, the tone of the voice, the intervals of silence; no touch of the hand--nothing, except
the strategies of Eros.

What did it matter if a few dead impulses, a few crippled ideals, a few blasted hopes were
left strewn upon the battlefield at the end of the fortnight? What mattered if there was grave
danger of one or both of them receiving heart wounds that would cling to them all their lives?
What did anything matter, so long as Prince Karl of Brabetz was not there?

One night toward the end of this week of enchanting rencontres--this week of effort to uncover
the vulnerable spot in the other's armour--Genevra stood leaning upon the rail which enclosed
the hanging garden. She was gazing abstractedly into the black night, out of which, far away,
blinked the light in the bungalow. A dreamy languor lay upon her. She heard the cry of the
night birds, the singing of woodland insects, but she was not aware of these persistent sounds;
far below in the grassy court she could hear Britt conversing with Saunders and Miss Pelham;
behind her in the little garden, Lady Deppingham and Browne had their heads close together
over a table on which they were playing a newly discovered game of "solitaire"; Deppingham
and Mrs. Browne leaned against the opposite railing, looking down into the valley. The soft
night wind fanned her face, bringing to her nostrils the scent of the fragrant forest. It was
the first night in a week that he had missed coming to the château.

She missed him. She was lonely.

He had told her of the meeting that was to be held at the bungalow that night, at which he
was to be asked to deliver over to Rasula's committee the papers, the receipts and the memoranda
that he had accumulated during his months of employment in their behalf. She had a feeling
of dread--a numb, sweet feeling that she could not explain, except that under all of it lay
the proud consciousness that he was a man who had courage, a man who was not afraid.

"How silly I am," she said, half aloud in her abstraction.

She turned her gaze away from the blinking light in the hills, a queer, guilty smile on her
lips. The wistful, shamed smile faded as she looked upon the couple who had given her so much
trouble a week ago. She felt, with a hot flash of self-abasement, as if she was morally responsible
for the consequences that seemed likely to attend Lady Deppingham's indiscretions.

Across the garden from where she was flaying herself bitterly, Lady Deppingham's husband was
saying in low, agitated tones to Bobby Browne's wife, with occasional furtive glances at the
two solitaire workers:

"Now, see here, Brasilia, I'm not saying that our--that is, Lady Deppingham and Bobby--are
accountable for what has happened, but that doesn't make it any more pleasant! It's of little
consequence who is trying to poison us, don't you know. And all that. They wouldn't do it,
I'm sure, but somebody is! That's what I mean, d'ye see? Lady Dep--"

"I know my husband wouldn't--couldn't do such a thing, Lord Deppingham," came from Drusilla's
stiff lips, almost as a moan. She was very miserable.

"Of course not, my dear Drusilla," he protested nervously. Then suddenly, as his eye caught
what he considered a suspicious movement of Bobby's hand as he placed a card close to Lady
Deppingham's fingers: "Demme, I--I'd rather he wouldn't--but I beg your pardon, Drusilla! It's
all perfectly innocent."

"Of course, it's innocent!" whispered Drusilla fiercely.

"You know, my dear girl, I--I don't hate your husband. You may have a feeling that I do, but----"

"I suppose you think that I hate your wife. Well, I don't! I'm very fond of her."

"It's utter nonsense for us to suspect them of--Pray don't be so upset, Drusilla. It's all
right----"

"If you think I am worrying over your wife's harmless affair with my husband, you are very
much mistaken."

Deppingham was silent for a long time.

"I don't sleep at all these night," he said at last, miserably. She could not feel sorry for
him. She could only feel for herself and her sleepless nights. "Drusilla, do--do you think
they want to get rid of us? We're the obstacles, you know. We can't help it, but we are. Somebody
put that pill in my tea to-day. It must have been a servant. It couldn't have been--er----"

"My husband, sir?"

"No; my wife. You know, Drusilla, she's not that sort. She has a horror of death and--" he
stopped and wiped his brow pathetically.

"If the servants are trying to poison any of us, Lord Deppingham, it is reasonable to suspect
that your wife and my husband are the ones they want to dispose of, not you and me. I don't
believe it was poison you found in your tea. But if it was, it was intended for one of the heirs."

"Well, there's some consolation in that," said Deppy, smiling for the first time. "It's annoying,
however, to go about feeling all the time that one is likely to pass away because some stupid
ass of an assassin makes a blunder in giving--"

The sharp rattle of firearms in the distance brought a sudden stop to his lugubrious reflections.
Five, a dozen--a score of shots were heard. The blood turned cold in the veins of every one
in the garden; faces blanched suddenly and all voices were hushed; a form of paralysis seized
and held them for a full minute.

Then the voice of Britt below broke harshly upon the tense, still air: "Good God! Look! It
is the bungalow!"

A bright glow lighted the dark mountain side, a vivid red painted the trees; the smell of burning
wood came down with the breezes. Two or three sporadic shots were borne to the ears of those
who looked toward the blazing bungalow.

"They've killed Chase!" burst from the stiff lips of Bobby Browne.

"Damn them!" came up from below in Britt's hoarse voice.

CHAPTER XIX

CHASE COMES FROM THE CLOUDS

For many minutes, the watchers in the château stared at the burning bungalow, fascinated, petrified.
Through the mind of each man ran the sudden, sharp dread that Chase had met death at the hands
of his enemies, and yet their stunned sensibilities refused at once to grasp the full horror
of the tragedy.

Genevra felt her heart turn cold; then something seemed to clutch her by the throat and choke
the breath out of her body. Through her brain went whirling the recollection of his last words
to her that afternoon: "They'll find me ready if they come for trouble." She wondered if he
had been ready for them or if they had surprised him! She had heard the shots. Chase could
not have fired them all. He may have fired once--perhaps twice--that was all! The fusilade
came from the guns of many, not one. Was he now lying dead in that blazing--She screamed aloud
with the thought of it!

"Can't something be done?" she cried again and again, without taking her gaze from the doomed
bungalow. She turned fiercely upon Bobby Browne, his countryman. Afterward she recalled that
he stood staring as she had stared, Lady Deppingham clasping his arm with both of her hands.
The glance also took in the face of Deppingham. He was looking at his wife and his eyes were
wide and glassy, but not with terror. "It may not be too late," again cried the Princess. "There
are enough of us here to make an effort, no matter how futile. He may be alive and trapped, up--"

"You're right," shouted Browne. "He's not the kind to go down with the first rush. We must
go to him. We can get there in ten minutes. Britt! Where are the guns? Are you with us, Deppingham?" Touched him Don Pedro the Cruel construction
the second floor, which completed the building. A vast courtyard, surrounded by ancient walls,
giving access the Alcazar, whose exquisite facade, a simple construction but reliefs or curd
arabesques, announces the beauties splendor indoors.

The whole building is reduced to two series of large rooms or apartments, generally square and
superimposed on two floors. The bottom of the walls and the pavements are made up of cute thin brick
tiles or earthenware, vivid colors, with the most graceful figures or drawings. The top of
each wall, from middle to high coffered ceilings, plaster stucco or wood, plays in general,
with incredible profusion, the same ornaments flowers or arabesques that make the charm of the
Alhambra, always repeating forms those exquisite filigree cast, but without losing that grace
of contours, surprising finesse lines everywhere, and vivid color in dazzling combinations. As Don Pedro
the Cruel Arab artists employed at the completion of building works of art are completely homogeneous.
Coffered ceilings or roofs, mainly cedar are implementing a delicate taste.

The Alcazar, full of light by the nature of its construction, it has in its halls and rooms that air
of delight and dark mystery that dominates the Alhambra. In all Alcázar is cheerful and bright,
and from the windows and overhanging balconies of the interior parts it has all the charming spectacle
offered by the huge garden surrounding the eastern palace. What dramatic traditions that place
where races and dynasties reigned enemy! If the hall of the Ambassadors away by its magnificence and
its magnificent dome, evokes many stories and legends with fresco portraits of kings Goths who
hold on the roof. Already feels overwhelmed with horror to cross the room where he was killed
Fadrique by order of his brother Don Pedro, already destiene to ponder, visiting the bedroom where
the king slept cruel, blood on the dramas of jealousy and distrust terrible were the result of
dark musings of the man in her care, and in Finally, when descending to the courtyard of the
Dolls (which had its large berries bathrooms) and penetraren where once underground voluptuous
princesses bathe eastern and more late Doña María de Padilla, one shudders thinking about the dual
use of those underground created for the delight and turned into the tomb. There, in one of
the wet cells without any air or light, was his imprisonment and martyrdom that woman so famous
memory.

The garden, which is about three hectar of the total area is enclosed by a high wall which itself
is a monument. Yet he is full of arabesques, of precious columns, frescoes, inscriptions and
a thousand ornaments so beautiful. What I admire is that these beauties art, exposed to the
weather after so many centuries (for such is the construction of walls) are perfectly preserved
and remain as models of Arabic art. It would be impossible fully describe this wonderful garden
(so especially in Europe) without filling many pages poetic language which seems exaggerated. Apart
from the interest of the interior facade the Alcazar and the high walls that frame the room,
the very bottom of the garden is lovely by a whole as well as for its beautiful details. While
walking through its maze of myrtle symmetrically cut, its thick groves of oranges and pomegranates,
their vast agglomerations shrubs and flowering plants, as bright as art in some places, so graciously
unequal in others, and to penetrate all sanctuaries of vegetables that fill the precinct, will
create one as transported to the Eastern Edens.

Everything there is voluptuous, smiling, tempting. And have fun in trying to find an early exit the
maze of myrtle, or in deciphering the allegories of all shapes drawn on the ground through the
same myrtle bushes neatly arranged, and it has to admire the groups of flowers, water games
ingenious and surprising, the numerous sources Arabic forms and the marble steps where the
Andalusian sun shines with all its splendor. Pray you do get to wander, dreaming and remembering
a thousand stories, under the thick shade of the woods of oranges, lemons and pomegranates, where you
feel the delicious produce intoxication orange blossom and jasmine, basil and roses in profusion.
Ora in short, the noise of the sources and the singing of the birds inhabitants of the garden
is resting with delight, sitting on ottomans marble, under the leadership of beautiful pavilions
of different styles, built in the center vegetable those toilets that seem to evoke the shadows
of the sultanas and traditions of the Moorish civilization. The Alcazar is a delightful monument.
Your type is the smiling freshness. They lack the grandeur that characterized the Alhambra. So, after
leaving the old mansion Don Pedro the Cruel, feels heavy and unpleasant air of the street and
takes a sweet printing, but not experienced the sadness that accompanies the traveler to stay away
from sites and impressive monuments of the old fortress of Boabdil.

       * * * * *

La Lonja, next to the cathedral, is a beautiful and elegant monument that honors to its architect,
the famous Herrera. It is completely square, measuring 37 meters per side and style is the Renaissance,
but in a delicious simplicity of anything detrimental to his majesty. The marble is here lavished
with great wealth, and the light comes in torrents everywhere. The Commercial Court and the Bourse are
resident in that splendid palace of speculation. He had his seat, as I said, the famous House
of hiring, an institution established by Spain in their times of political blindness to exploit
the trade of their colonies Colombia, by the monopoly. The huge files are kept in beautiful
cabinets with the greatest care, in terms of trade and economic history of Spanish-Colombia
for a long time, there is scattered over millions of documents.

The building is two stories, cloistered in both, but not protruding balconies or galleries. All
your floors are marble and all the walls and ceilings of pure stone. The most notable by merit
of composition is on the stairs and ceilings. The first is by itself a splendid monument, its
ways, the enormity of the marble (all of Grenada) as its fine rich as its colors and exquisite
volume and form mosaics. The roof is made on all four sides of a chain of vaults, with the peculiarity
that there is the more than forty coffered (of pure stone, solid and bold and extremely assembled
and beautifully carved) two are alike in their ways or partial relief. The fish market is in
its kind, perhaps the most beautiful monument that Spain possesses.

       

* * * * *

If the art of building such wonderful gathers samples of all kinds in Seville, the divine art
that creates and perpetuates the light of truth on the table, the canvas and the wall, no less
perhaps be proud of in the homeland of Murillo and Herrera. The Museum's paintings Sevilla in itself
an immense treasure, even in the eyes of one who has known the Madrid, Paris, Dresden, Antwerp and
other European cities. However, not all the museum deserves the reputation.

Except six boxes of the first order in the great hall (local dark and sad of an old church) can
say that the core value is in the hall of Murillo, whose price is incalculable.

The main salon has good works, no doubt, but the mass is not outstanding, because Sevilla (who
gave his name to a great and glorious school) has been sacked on on paintings, and French under
Marshal Soult, the wartime national Now for the authorities who wanted to organize national museums
and individuals at the expense provinces. It feels stunned with admiration at the sublime view
of the Assumption of Murillo, so deeply celestial in its form and expression, of the famous painting
by Zurbaran (Which has its political and diplomatic history) representing the preaching of St.
Thomas Aquino, Concepcion, and a Visitation of Valdez, which evokes the whole poem divine unction
the biblical mystery, of Christ, also Zurbarán, amazing supreme pain and agony; of a Marquez
Jesus of Stephen (disciple of Murillo), who seems set for the inspiration and the master's
hand, and purpose of the Five Apostles of Polanco, an artist whose works I have seemed remarkable
for the power brush. Looking at all these figures, under the shadows of the deserted temple, one
can understand the superiority of the geniuses who, deeply agitated
by a feeling of piety and Christian idea, have created a new art form,
giving seal of majesty, the anointing and holiness.

This is precisely what stands out to tour the room that contains only works Murillo. The twenty paintings
that form this collection were made during a closure volunteer to be condemned by the pious
artist, exiled in the Capuchin convent in Seville. Murillo is well known that never began a work
without having received Communion, which proves how impressed him deeply religious feelings. The
loneliness was her best element, because infused recollection, she gave them their supreme
bliss almost inimitable character to all creations of the great artist from Seville. In this regard
it is worth a mention superior work of Herrera the Elder, which is in the prime living. San Hermenegildo
is an admirable, made in his dungeon by that artist, condemned to lose the hand for giving him
a slap to a certain cleric. No doubt the artist really understand the full value of your hand into a
chapel since produced a sublime work that earned him forgiveness.

Almost always the biggest productions born genius at critical moments and in the shadows of
the gathering.

Would be almost useless, and perhaps pretentious, to make a choice either between the twenty-three
Murillo paintings, worth more than five hundred thousand dollars, according to some insiders.
All are to that better. HOWEVER, the picture representing the miracle of San Francisco Assisi
is perhaps the most vigorous as brush work or labor. As a work of inspiration, nothing seduces as
well as the Worship of Jesus: the figure of the Virgin is an expression of purity and joy celestial
insurmountable, and the candor, simplicity, surprise guilty to the shepherds who peep the child
with childish curiosity, are inimitable.

       It may be necessary to mention also, as sovereign creations, the
beggar's box Santo Tomas de Villanueva, a San Felix of Cantalicio,
a Concepcion (the study of choice for Murillo) and Asuncion, very
kind rare artists have managed to copy or disclose their true condition.

*

* * * *

The reader will forgive me if I invite you to visit yet another interesting museum, simple portion
of this vast, complicated and precious museum of a thousand forms is called .-- I speak Sevilla
University Church, which overseas visit with great pleasure. There is a large collection of
interesting tombs in every respect. Among the ten that stand out are the Duke of Alcalá and
his wife, founders of the building, and other noble Castilian famous in history, they are true monuments
for the sake of form, the merit Marbles and the delicacy and richness of the reliefs, busts
and other sculptures or bodies. In class religious sculptures are a Christ Montañez, so astonishingly
higher alone is worth a museum and a San Ignacio de Loyola and San Francisco de Borja (Same
artist), which are impressive statues. The San Ignacio mainly seems to have made the supreme
ideal of art which can animate the marble, stone or other material, and give an eloquent speech
and a deeper look. The whole history of the Society of Jesus seems
to emerge a priori from the marble facing and that burning eye and
fascinating that polls and meditate.

As to paintings of the chapel, the altar and the side walls contain really works Roelas master,
Pacheco, Alonso Cano and other artists who had just celebrity Spain. It is well worth noting
that the art of painting has always run in pairs chivalric and religious movement of peoples.
Among European companies brush always seems to have reigned next to the sword and the shadow
of the cap. Italy, Spain and France, - the people more and more exalted warriors before in the
religious sense - have history revealed in the paintings with remarkable
energy.

Spain is a country immensely rich in paintings, because he had exuberance of conquistadores
and friars.

HOWEVER, few cities have on the peninsula has the privilege to Sevilla. Madrid, Barcelona, ​​Cadiz,
Burgos, etc., Are essentially Spanish. Valencia is half Moorish, but much less in terms of
art to the two most notable cities of Andalusia. Cordoba is almost entirely Moorish. Toledo
essentially complex, but leaving dominate the Gothic and Greco-Roman in its main monuments. Only
Seville and Granada have the unique advantage of revealing simultaneously, for their artistic,
the most complete expression of different and even opposing civilizations.

       But Seville is still far superior to that Granada.

Sevilla holds them together and alive, with singular energy, all the Eastern traditions, as well
as evidence of Latino art and works of gothic top.

* * * * *

Mention a monument still extremely funny, which is a Moorish-style works more interesting in
that plastic art of sculpture and colorful as the Moors had advanced in the fourteenth century.
I refer to the House of Pilate, curious building which now belongs to the Dukes of Medinaceli.
It ensures that the house is a reproduction of which dwell the famous court in Jerusalem that left politicians
who sit and model the skill is to kill and wash your hands, a Crusader Auditors Spanish, again
Seville of holy war, wanted to perpetuate the memory of his campaigns in Palestine and that built
the House-Pilate brought under the model.

Whether or not the tradition, is that the house does not reveal in his works of art but the
florid Arabic style (most advanced) I could not have been known at the time of Christ, and that
had barely begun in of the crusades. But the question we do not mind the curious, we merely observed
and pick up prints.

Cross the famous house of Seville has two courtyards, the first ordinary and works of art, and consists
of two floors, with superimposed galleries, as cloisters. The inner courtyard perfectly square (generally
in the oriental architecture) is all paved with beautiful marble tiles and large black and white,
and has a gorgeous center source matching with four Roman statues in each corner. The galleries
are supported twenty-four columns, also of marble, grace and lightness, and all around the walls
are busts of Roman emperors worked very well. If pavements galleries and the central bottom and
walls of exquisite tiles shine (Which are mosaics of oriental art) at the top is a great luxury
of arabesques or relief, white and colors that mimic or reproduce the plastics and fine workmanship
stucco of the Alhambra and the Alcazar, - always servile, without originality or variation, but
always funny.

       Finally, around the courtyard, low galleries, are four classrooms
whose tiles, arabesques and ceilings are happy for the execution careful
and colorful.

The rest of the House of Pilate, though more or less funny, low flame attention, being noted that the
distribution of the building is extremely simple.

* * * * *

Seville is a city famous for many reasons, among others, by the eminent
men or characters history has produced.

They had their cradle Roman emperors Hadrian and Theodosius the famous Las Casas, painters Murillo,
Herrera (old) Roelas and Pacheco, the famous historian Herrera, called the divine, and poets
and Jauregui Rioja. Magellan went away to make his first trip around the world in 1519, and
Seville to Granada is challenging home of Lope de Rueda, the illustrious actor and playwright,
Molière kind of Spanish.

Each of the nine suburbs of Seville is marked by a monument or important factory. But Triana
is a specialty purely social. Is linked to the city, as I said, by a beautiful suspension bridge,
which disrupts or serves to limit navigation Guadalquivir sea. Its docks facing the main port of
Seville, as to the strengths that dominate the river and the railway station leading to Cordova. If
the first streets of Triana coming to the port have the general structure of of the city, to
move into this suburb is the complex issue of old Spain and Roma
populations.

Triana is the residence of all Roma Seville, whose fate is very similar to that of the Jews in
Rome, Prague and other cities Europe. Just as in these there is a ghetto or barrio where the Israelites
live or vegetate, confined in some places (as in Prague) and cruelly treated or banned (as in Rome),
Roma have their ghetto in every city of Spain, without ever inhabit other neighborhoods.

But there is a very substantial difference. The Jew is banned in Europe, especially in Rome,
a spirit of persecution and intolerance, or by tradition or custom, while the gypsy Spain is not persecution.
He is confined to a single neighborhood, outlawing himself, by race spirit (pride, resentment
and interest in isolation), and it shows Roma to form a separate community, both in Madrid (to
the door of Toledo) in Grenada (in the Albaicin) and in Seville in the suburb of Triana. Here
is revealed perhaps more energy to one of the hallmarks of Roma. In Grenada it is almost natural
architecture ground of that race, because the ground appears to indicate in the Albaicin. But
Sevilla not understood at first why the Roma are the same system (although varied greatly in
shape), even though the field is entirely level Triana. The appearance of the streets is very
sad. Rare are the homes that have a high floor, almost all are very low, with doors and windows
petty, small deserts patios, walls and ceilings regrettable that reveal extreme poverty and neglect.
The streets, very badly paved, are usually deserted, and when walking
on them can barely hear the noise of underground objects Metal Hammer
or cobbler, - or very rarely seen a female face, in a window, or a
small group of dirty boys in a hallway or patio, sad, poorly clothing
and repellents and rough faces in general.

It is rare gypsy's house has no basement floor is recorded from the street. The door opens immediately
on a kind of basement (the workplace), or by through a small vestibule tilted, either through
a grandstand almost abrupt. Rooms that are at street level are for bedrooms and other uses,
or dug deep on earth contain the workrooms, workshops and forges. Obviously there are the Gypsies
a tendency to life underground, which is not consistent in appearance with the nomadic habits. Even in the
way of preparing food is served from the gypsy holes dug in the earth, - procedure ingenious that
lends itself to mystery and promotes the rapid cooking of animal substances and vegetables. You may
have some ethnological principle determine these trends to the underground; but the simplest explanation
seems to be in the nature of the industry and customs of Gypsies. Race and tin smiths of people
who have no regular notion the idea of ​​ownership, traditionally accustomed to fraud, theft
thieves, the mystification and the procedures with hypocrites, - the Gypsies have understood
clearly that their Breakfast should be appropriate to the concealment and deceit. Thus, when lead
nomadic life, home change from night to morning, about the place, and are always set in the
most lonely, and when forced to build their fixed residence Breakfast in the least conspicuous,
making a mockery of social control.

We were told that in the Triana district would see curious and animated pictures of people Roma,
which is quite large. But we find only sadness, solitude and silence. Perhaps chose the wrong
time or day to satisfy our curiosity. What I could get with Security was the belief that the
Spanish people there is no hatred or no concern for Gypsies (race which I find much less than
is generally incorrigible think), but efforts are not suitable for producing an assimilation
or full merger. There are many Catholic Gypsies in Spain, HOWEVER they are seen to persist in
habits of isolation. And the most curious is that the Catholic Gypsies (who are by Baptism and
without any awareness of Christian doctrines and Catholic) are distinguished Spain by the brutality
of his fanaticism, in moments of religious exaltation. This proves Fanaticism is always the companion
of ignorance, and that the full force of the truffles is anywhere in the domination of the masses
to obey mechanically barbarian the impetus given to them. The world will not get rid of religious conflict
but the day disappeared from the companies' barbaric element. " So we can understand the horror
The operators of religion truffles look any tendency towards training and education of the masses.
* * * * *

Seville is not only a commercial and agricultural center of the first order in Spain is also
a city ​​on a large scale manufacturer, but little manufacturing. Large factories, called actual
manufacturing, which in other European cities to meet hundreds and even thousands worker and
consumer are huge masses of products do not exist in Seville, where machinery (As in most of Spain)
is still very backward. What is there is the small manufacturing and the engine, whose products
are very significant on account of the mass of workers and the multiplication of the workshops.
There exists an organization of work in detail produce visible results. Since the establishment
of a small factory does not require a train expensive, is very accessible to men of the middle
class and even the workmen acquisition one or more looms, a workshop or workshop, and therefore
is easier than in cities manufacturing step status to the master worker, employer or landlord.


"If I were you," he said at last, reluctant to despoil the picture, "I wouldn't sit up there.
It would be a very simple matter for one of our friends to pick you off with a shot from below.
Please let me pull up a chair for you."

She smiled languidly, without a trace of uneasiness in her manner.

"Dear officer of the day, do you think they are so foolish as to pick us off in particles?
Not at all. They will dispose of us wholesale, not by the piece. By the way, has Neenah been
made quite comfortable?"

"I believe so. She and Selim have the room beyond mine, thanks to Lady Deppingham."

"Agnes tells me that she is very interesting--quite like a princess out of a fairy book. You
recall the princesses who were always being captured by ogres and evil princes and afterward
satisfactorily rescued by those dear knights admirable? Did Selim steal her in the beginning?"

"You forget the pot of sapphires and the big ruby."

"They say that princesses can be bought very cheaply."

"Depends entirely upon the quality of princess you desire. It's very much like buying rare
gems or old paintings, I'd say."

"Very much, I'm sure. I suppose you'd call Neenah a rare gem?"

"She is certainly not an old painting."

"How old is she, pray?"

"Seventeen--by no means an antique. Speaking of princesses and ogres, has it occurred to you
that you would bring a fortune in the market?"

"Mr. Chase!"

"You know, it's barely possible that you may be put in a matrimonial shop window if Von Blitz
and his friends should capture you alive. Ever think of that?"

"Good heavens! You--why, what a horrible thing to say!"

"You won't bring as much in the South Sea market as you would in Rapp-Thorberg or Paris, but
I daresay you could be sold for--"

"Please, Mr. Chase, don't suggest anything so atrocious," she cried, something like terror
in her voice.

"Neenah's father sold her for a handful of gems," said he, with distinct meaning in his voice.
She was silent, and he went on after a moment. "Is there so much difference, after all, where
one is sold, just so long as the price is satisfactory to all concerned?"

"You are very unkind, Mr. Chase," she said with quiet dignity. "I do not deserve your sarcasm."

"I humbly plead for forgiveness," he said, suddenly contrite. "It was beastly."

"American wit, I imagine you call it," she said scornfully. "I don't care to talk with you
any longer."

"Won't you forgive me? I'm a poor brute--don't lash me. In two or three weeks I'll step down
and out of your life; that will be penalty enough, don't you think?"

"For whom?" she asked in a voice so low that he could scarcely hear the words. Then she laughed
ironically. "I do forgive. It is all that a prince or a princess is ever asked to do, I'm beginning
to believe. I also forgive you for coming into my life."

"If I had been a trifle more intelligent, I should not have come into it at all," he said.
She turned upon him quickly, stung by the remark.

"Is that the way you feel about it?" she asked sharply.

"You don't understand. A man of intelligence would never have kicked Prince Karl. As a matter
of fact, in trying to kick Prince Karl out of your life, I kicked myself into it. A very simple
process, and yet scarcely intellectual. A jackass could have done as much."

"A jackass may kick at a king," she paraphrased casually. "A cat may only look at him. But
let us go back to realities. Do you mean to tell me that they--these wretches--would dare to
sell me--us, I mean--into the kind of slavery you mention?" A trace of anxiety deepened the
tone of her voice. She was now keenly alert and no longer trivial.

"Why not?" he asked soberly, arising and coming quite close to her side. "You are beautiful.
If they should take you alive, it would be a very simple matter for any one of these men to
purchase you from the others. You might easily be kept on this island for the rest of your
days, and the world would be none the wiser. Or you could be sold into Persia, or Arabia, or
Turkey. I am not surprised that you shudder. Forgive me for alarming you, perhaps needlessly.
Nevertheless, it is a thing to consider. I have learned all of the plans from Selim's wife.
They do not contemplate the connubial traffic, 'tis true, but that would be a natural consequence.
Von Blitz and Rasula mean to destroy all of us. We are to disappear from the face of the earth.
When our friends come to look for us, we will have died from the plague and our bodies will
have been burned, as they always are in Japat. There will be no one left to deny the story.
All outsiders are to be destroyed--even the Persian and Turkish women, who hate their liege
lords too well. After to-morrow, no ship is due to put in here for three weeks. They will see
to it that none of us get out to that ship; nor will the ship's officers know of our peril.
The word will go forth that the plague has come to the island. That is the first step, your
highness. But there is one obstacle they have overlooked," he concluded. She looked up inquiringly.

"My warships," he said, the whimsical smile broadening.

CHAPTER XXI

THE PLAGUE IS ANNOUNCED

The next morning, a steamship flying the English flag came to anchor off Aratat, delivered
and received mail bags, and after an hour's stay steamed away in the drift of the southeast
trade winds, Bombay to Cape Colony. The men at the château gazed longingly, helplessly through
their glasses at this black hulled visitor from the world they loved; they watched it until
nothing was left to be seen except the faint cloud of smoke that went to a pin point in the
horizon. There had been absolutely no opportunity to communicate with the officers of the ship;
they sailed away hurriedly, as if in alarm. Their haste was significant.

"I guess we'd better not tell the women," said Bobby Browne, heaving a deep sigh. "It won't
add to their cheerfulness if they hear that a ship has called here."

"It couldn't matter in any event," said Deppingham. "We've got to stick here two weeks longer,
no matter how many ships call. I'm demmed if I'll funk now, after all these rotten months."

"Perhaps Bowles succeeded in getting a word with the officer who came ashore," said Browne
hopefully. "He knows the danger we are in."

"My dear Browne, Bowles hadn't the ghost of a chance to communicate with the ship," said Chase.
"He can't bully 'em any longer with his Tommy Atkins coat. They've outgrown it, just as he
has. It was splendid while it lasted, but they're no more afraid of it now than they are of
my warships. I wish there was some way to get him and his English assistants into the château.
It's awful to think of what is coming to them, sooner or later."

"Good God, Chase, is there no way to help them?" groaned Deppingham.

"I'll never forget poor Bowles, the first time I saw him in his dinky red jacket and that Hooligan
cap of his," reflected Chase, as if he had not heard Deppingham's remark. "He put them on and
tried to overawe the crowd that night when I was threatened in the market-place. He did his
best, poor chap, and I----"

"Look!" exclaimed Britt suddenly, pointing toward one of the big gates in the upper end of
the park. "I believe they're making an attack!"

The next instant the men in the balcony were leaving it pell-mell, picking up the ever-ready
rifles as they dashed off through the halls and out into the park. What they had seen at the
gate--which was one rarely used--was sufficient to demand immediate action on their part; a
demonstration of some sort was in progress at this particular entrance to the grounds. Saunders
was left behind with instructions to guard the château against assault from other sources.
Headed by Chase, the four men hurried across the park, prepared for an encounter at the gate.
They kept themselves as well covered as possible by the boxed trees, although up to this time
there had been no shooting.

Chase, in advance, suddenly gave vent to a loud cry and boldly dashed out into the open, disregarding
all shelter. Two of the native park patrol were hastening toward the gate from another direction.
Outside the huge, barred gate a throng of men and women were congregated. Some of the men were
vigorously slashing away at the bars with sledges and crow-bars; others were crouching with
rifles levelled--in the other direction!

"It's Bowles!" shouted Chase eagerly.

The situation at once became clear to those inside the walls. Bowles and his friends, a score
all told, had managed to reach the upper gate and were now clamouring for admission, beset
on all sides by the pickets who were watching the château. Bowles, with his pathetic red jacket,
could be distinguished in the midst of his huddled followers, shouting frantically for haste
on the part of those inside. Some one was waving a white flag of truce. A couple of shots were
fired from the forest above, and there were screams from the frightened women, shouts from
the men, who had ceased battering the gates at the signs of rescue from within.

"For God's sake, be quick," shouted Bowles. "There's a thousand of them coming up the mines' road!"

The gates were unlocked by the patrol and the panic-stricken throng tumbled through them and
scattered like sheep behind the high, sheltering walls. Once more the massive gates were closed
and the bolts thrown down, just in time to avoid a fusillade of bullets from the outside. It
was all over in a minute. A hundred throats emitted shouts of rage, curses and threats, and
then, as if by magic, the forest became as still as death.

Once inside the château, the fugitives, shivering with terror, fairly collapsed. There were
three Englishmen in the party besides Bowles, scrubby, sickly chaps, but men after all. It
was with unfeigned surprise that Chase recognised the Persian wives of Jacob von Blitz among
the women who had been obliged to cast their lot with the refugees from Aratat. The sister
of Neenah and five or six other women who had been sold into the island made up the remainder
of the little group of trembling females. Their faces were veiled; their persons were bedecked
with all of the gaudy raiment and jewels that their charms had won from their liege lords.
They were slaves, these Persians and Turks and Egyptians, but they came out of bondage with
the trophies of queens stuck in their hair, in their ears, on their hands and arms and about
their waists and throats.

The remainder of the men in the party, fourteen or fifteen in all, were of many castes and
nationalities, and of various ages. There were brown-skinned fellows from Calcutta, a couple
of sturdy Greeks, an Egyptian and a Persian, three or four Assyrians and as many Maori. As
to their walks in life: among them were clerks and guards from the bank, members of the native
constabulary, Indian fakirs and showmen, and venders of foreign gewgaws.

Bowles, his thin legs still shaking perceptibly, although he strove mightily to hold them at
strict "attention," was the spokesman. A valiant heart thumped once more against the seams
of the little red jacket; if his hand trembled and his voice shook, it was because of the unwonted
exertion to which both had been put in that stirring flight at dawn. He had eager, anxious
listeners about him, too--and of the nobility. Small wonder that his knees were intractable.

"For some time we have been preparing for the outbreak," he said, fingering the glass of brandy
that Britt had poured for him. "Ever since Chase began to go in so noticeably for the ladies--ahem!"

Chase glared at him. The others tittered.

"I don't mean the old story, sir, of the Persians--and I'm saying, sir, what's more, there
wasn't a word of truth in it--I mean the ladies of the château, begging pardon, too. Von Blitz
came to me often with complaints that you were being made a fool of by a pretty face or two,
and that you were going over to the enemy, body and soul. Of course, I stood out for you, sir.
It wasn't any use. They'd made up their minds to get rid of you. When I heard that they tried
to kill you the night before last, I made up my mind that no white man was to be left to tell
the tale. Last night we locked all the company's books in the vaults, got together all the
banknotes and gold we had on hand, and made preparations to go on board the steamer when she
called this morning. My plan was to tell them of the trouble here and try to save you. We were
all expected to die of the plague, that's what we were, and I realised that Tommy Atkins was
off the boards forever.

"We hadn't any more than got the cash and valuables ready to smuggle aboard, when down came
Rasula upon us. Ten o'clock last night, your lordship. That's what it was--ten P.M. He had
a dozen men with him and he told every mother's son of us that our presence in the town was
not desired until after the ship had sailed away. We were ordered to leave the town and go
up into the hills under guard. There wasn't any chance to fight or argue. We said we'd go,
but we'd have the government on them for the outrage. We left the rooms in the bank building,
carrying away what money we could well conceal. Later we were joined by the other men you found
with us, all of whom had refused to join in the outrage.

"We were taken up into the hills by a squad of men. There wasn't a man among us that didn't
know that we were to be killed as soon as the ship had gone. With our own eyes, we saw the
mail bags rifled, and nearly all of the mail destroyed. The pouches from the château were burned.
Rasula politely informed us that the plague had broken out among the château servants and that
no mail could be sent out from that place. He said he intended to warn the ship's officer of
the danger in landing and--well, that explains the short stay of the ship and the absence of
nearly all mail from the island. We had no means of communicating with the officers. There
won't be another boat for three weeks, and they won't land because of the plague. They will
get word, however, that every one in the château has died of the disease, and that scores of
natives are dying every day.

"Well, we decided to break away from the guard and try to get to the château. It was our only
chance. It was their intention to take some of us back to the bank this morning to open the
vault and the safes. That was to be our last act, I fancy. I think it was about four this morning
when a dozen of the women came up to where we were being held. They were flying from the town
and ran into the arms of our guard before they knew of their presence. It seems that those
devils down there had set out to kill their women because it was known that one of them had
warned Mr. Chase of his danger. According to the women who came with us, at least a score of
these unlucky wives were strangled. Von Blitz's wives succeeded in getting word to a few of
their friends and they fled.

"During the excitement brought about by their arrival in our camp, we made a sudden attack
upon our guards. They were not expecting it and we had seized their rifles before they could
recover from their surprise. I regret to say that we were obliged to kill a few of them in
the row that followed. But that is neither here nor there. We struck off for the lower park
as lively as possible. The sun was well up, and we had no time to lose. We found the gates
barred and went on to the upper gates. Throughout the region are seen plains
and low hills covered with vineyards, grain, olives, etc., inks which are very beautiful effect
on the distant horizon. Without more than the populations neighbors of Cadiz, is the round the
bay (including "Port-Sainte-Marie," which is as adjacent) a mass of 114.153 inhabitants, mainly
sea condition, but growers in industry and agriculture. The bay is 58 kilometers in circumference.

As
shown, Cádiz mimics a boat floating between two huge bays, buffeted
by the waves in all directions.

If the situation makes this city the most beautiful and poetic population Spain, the interior,
its sights and traditions make it as interesting as sympathetic and funny. Cadiz is a city of
ancient origin, it was a colony founded by the Tyre. The Romans conquered two centuries before
the Christian era, and at all times has had the dual importance of commercial space and war.
If today is the first stronghold Spain, bristling with castles and defended in all directions,
as is commercial plaza inferior to Barcelona. While the Catalan capital and Malaga, Valencia, Alicante
and Gibraltar traffic dispute will turn towards the Mediterranean, Seville, Coruña, Santander
and Bilbao competition make it across the Atlantic. Its population, which at the time of Spanish
rule America did not lower than 100.000 inhabitants, is now reduced to just over 70,000.

Cadiz traditions I was interested in every respect.

From there came the most important Spanish expeditions, both at the time of settlements undertaken
on the New World, and during the terrible war of independence "Colombia," Mexico, Peru, Chile,
Buenos-Aires, etc. Colombian freedom was not anywhere as implacable enemies as in Cadiz, the residence
of the famous company that had a monopoly of trade between Europe and several Spanish-Colombian
colonies. And strange to say, that proves how much the interests of influence the political monopoly
of the nations - the same people who so raw Cadiz war do to the revolution of the New World,
was at the same time the refuge of the Patriots Spanish and the ark of salvation for the nationality
of Spain, in their heroic struggle against Napoleon and despotism .... Many ills suffered by the
Spanish people, without understanding since the cause of freedom and the right was the same
in Spain than in Colombia, and that the patriots of both worlds as brothers were to ally rather than
make war!

Other memories assaulted me in Cadiz. Aside from its heroic defense against the English, in
1626, 1772 and 1797, and against the French in 1811, also apart of the interesting episodes political,
liberal constitution of 1812 and the heroic revolution of 1820 led by Irrigation and Quiroga, Cádiz
me to remember that there was born that fierce Brigadier Enrile, peacemaker awful memory of my homeland,
and died there miserable, hungry and lacerated by a thousand bitterness at the bottom of a dungeon,
the illustrious and generous Miranda, warrior revolution French and Colombian independence martyr,
treated by some with ingratitude and supreme by others with a cold cruelty!

The belt of high walls (double and even triple in some areas) that completely surrounds at
Cadiz, has a circumference of 7.500 Spanish yards. Thus, wherever the traveler aims to find a solution
runs into a mass of stone, soldiers and guns, seeing foam at the bottom of the ocean waves crashing
violently into the sand banks and the dangerous reefs that serve the island ahead seating
to castles and fortifications. If the view of the bay is picturesque and varied, which has over
the ocean south and south-west from the walkway of the "Alameda" is a breathtaking majesty.
From the outset, Cadiz had offered me many similarities in appearance with the city of Cartagena in
"New Granada." Similarity is not the word itself: I do not know what analogy is vague in the configuration
of the island and bays, the exterior structure of the city, something very harmonious style
fortifications, in the atmosphere and sky. Touring the beautiful Paseo de la Alameda, the
squares and streets, and observe the people there, the guy community was apparent. In every
elegant Cadiz believed to see a daughter of Cartagena: the accent, the manners, the ease, panache
full of kindness and dengue, black eye and sweet, adorable smile of coquetry, the complexion of
a soft, pale brown, measured and lordly gait, kindness and openness insinuating, and I do not
know what's voluptuous dress, delicate but expressive forms and the inevitable game fan, - all
contributed to produce an illusion that made me think of the country.

The sun sank like a glowing ember in the waves of an infinite horizon,
the Alameda was full of walkers and had to do like a charming animation.

The stage seemed a large basket of flowers floating in the eddies of a stream. The sea produced
the standing of its formidable walls clicking, releasing clouds of foam snapshots, whilst hundreds
of walkers roamed amid the groves and beautiful gardens the 'Alameda', almost under the balcony
and the shutters of the splendid houses that dominate the levees and embankments. The reverberating
roof, - the picturesque balconies green and blue - the tall, graceful Moorish-style roofs,
- the bush filled with flowers and perfumes, - the animated groups of a population in which
they looked very different types - gleaming marble more luxurious houses - castles standing on the
distant waves, - the mountains, confused in the distance - the rough seas and swaying under her
mantle of twilight, - the sun, a large optical effect, such as swimming in the ocean - stirring gently
in the breeze trees, - the extraordinary beauty of heaven, - all this filled me with charm, intoxicated,
leaving the soul a very profound impression that I will never forget.

I needed time to look carefully. Spain is a country that can not be well studied in less than
three years, and I could only have three months to collect impressions,
noticing things more salient and important.

No monument found me worthy Cadiz special attention under the artistic point of view. What
makes this city a population Interestingly, its position, as a whole, their particular style of buildings,
their social air, historical memories and their economic value.

Cadiz, which had fallen as much commercial space since losing the exploitation of Colombia, begins
to regain its animation, thanks to the new steamship lines, to significant
improvements on the roads to the interior of Andalusia, and the economic
revival Spain has had since 1855.

Its exports are salt, oil, wine, fruit dry and other Andalusian, - is an important place of call
and deposit, and manufactures some objects of art, as well as applicable to the marina. Fisheries
seeks him considerable profits. Sitting on a rock, as it lacks running water the higher is its
vast and numerous tanks. Hospitals and has beautiful large number of educational institutions,
charities, credit, trade and navigation.

Of course, the climate, the influence of Moorish domination and the Spanish taste, have determined
Cadiz the same kind of constructions that almost the entire peninsula and especially in the
Andalucías. Thus, the streets are in general or in its more narrow
and gloomy winding, bumpy and full of whimsy.

But is there a particular stamp of elegance and taste not found in any of the other major Spanish cities,
except to Seville. He feels a keen pleasure to go almost all the streets of Cadiz, or to stand
under the thick shade of the magnificent trees of the squares of "San Antonio" and "Mina."
Apart from the interest they excite people of all cliques of conditions and the elegant shops
full of curious, wherever you walk from one surprise to explore the best streets, paved not
richly tiled.

Everywhere graceful balconies, discrete lattice, obscured inside by fine curtains, behind which folds
half hidden from view some gorgeous faces as appearances ideals the viewpoints of crystal air,
capricious on steep ceilings, windows with iron gratings very curious,
the vast rooftop adorned of vases with flowers and small shrubs sunlit
and agitated by sea breezes.

But nothing so strange, so deliciously beautiful and luxurious as the homes of the richest
owners in the main squares and streets, palaces true tale, of Orientalism charming. In all of them a
magnificent cover or rich marble and jasper, worked with care; an entrance that looks like
the prelude to a sumptuous room with the flooring and walls marble, stucco ceiling and superb
interior door glass with carved arabesques and beautiful colors. The door is always open during
the day. You approach, and a servant falls steps in and invites you to the point with the
greatest care to visit the house, although the family is present. If you accept, the owner (a wealthy
businessman) is presented, and a almost irresistible warmth compelling - to see that you are abroad
- I repeat the invitation, I pray that you may bring up, I asked if you want a drink, etc.

I had seen the splendid palaces and sumptuous hotels in France, England, Barcelona and Madrid, but had
no idea such a beautiful house, so as Eastern Romanesque I visited in Cadiz and Seville. You
pass in front of the vestibule, and you find yourself in a square courtyard and cloistered on
all four sides is the building covered by a high dome glass that makes it look like a greenhouse.
On the sides, on the ground floor, are the vast rooms for business
or offices to the owner, at the bottom there is an elegant catwalk
leading to the courtyards (patios true), standing at the sides, and
in snail, and at right angles, the monumental staircase leading to
the three, four or five floors of the house.

From the base to the glass dome is projected throughout the interior Quad-salon continuous balconies
so many orders and how many floors is cloistered home. There is no pavement on the covered
patio (which is how the central chamber), on the stairs the interior balconies and all parts of
the building, which is not composed of superb tiles square white marble and blue, or black
or mottled, there is a balcony, a door, a rail not have a thousand arabesques, and exquisite moldings
and tastefully, there is a wall not richly stuccoed and dressed. Each courtyard has at its center
a valuable source of marble fountains to cool the air, and around the campus are large jars
Gaspe, porcelain, etc., containing delicate shrubs, pots of jasmine, roses and carnations,
Naranjillos blossoms, vines or parasites, which embalm that heady atmosphere. It is believed a dream
with some of the oriental tale, and for the enjoyment is complete for the lover of art, every yard
of these are a few marble statues and holds within its walls ten or twelve paint beautiful
pictures.

Sunlight, falling vertically at noon, or weakened by entering the lower part produces the most
strange effects of brightness, shade and chiaroscuro, and at night, when the interior is lighted
by gas, this museum-garden in the middle of the waters murmur supplier, is a ravishing beauty.
This is where families gather, they are visits and enjoys home gatherings during the hottest months
in of summer, when there is no preference roof.

Cadiz is in marble lavished everywhere. In large hotels, in many and splendid cafés, theaters,
churches, squares and all the monuments there is a floor luxury he
admires.

Coffee 'Apollo', one of the most beautiful and original I known, fun and draws attention to
the traveler, and gives an idea of ​​the character ardent, cordial, voluptuous and expansion of
the population of Cadiz. During the early hours of the night, plazas of San Antonio and Mina
(the first in particular) and large adjacent streets have great animation and offer the most
curious customs boxes. The women of Cadiz are usually beautiful, hot and attractive: that, and
the commercial status of the city makes the misfortune of them in
the classes most exposed to weaknesses and temptations.

Thus, prostitution Cadiz is in proportion to scare. It is unprecedented number of women in
unhappy establishments that kind of corruption, and experts speculate the infamy the direction
of those houses, which are the shame of European societies. Contáronme things What terrified
me, and anecdotes about people of high society, to be true, would give a very sad idea of ​​morality
Cadiz. I do not believe what I was told by some people, and took Cadiz HOWEVER, under this aspect,
painful impressions .... Much could be said about what I have observed in major Spanish cities,
but the matter is repugnant and shocking, and the Colombian world, fortunately, does not know
certain things it is best to ignore forever. There are so many fallacies in European civilization
so much misery ... dishonoring the progress and do sometimes feel ashamed of what makes humanity ....
In Spain is a singular contrast, religion is not free: the Catholic believer is not no can
worship God, - but prostitution is not only legitimized by the law, but authority that regulates
and manages the carefully!

Sufficient to judge the organization of that country (whose people have admirable qualities
characteristics and severe defects of education) the simple fact these two contrasts: law speculation
the game through the lottery, but restricts the innocent and productive work; maintains and manages
the prostitution, but press the conscience and conviction to imprisonment to which distributed
the Bible and the Gospels without notes Scio father!

* * * * *

Despite the interest that could have the city of Jerez, as strong
and large population center wine production, we had more strong desire
to sail from the lower Guadalquivir mouth to Sevilla.

We prefer, therefore, this way, but we wanted before we embark interesting to know the population
living near Cadiz. Taking a car and leaving the premises of the city by the road to Jerez,
it is easy to visit San Fernando, Puerto-Real and Harbor-Santa-Maria.

The landscape, if facing the mainland, monotonous, equality of the
land and nature crop, but it is picturesque and lively, if there is
a tendency in view of the sea, is to repair in the shipyard of the
bay, where there is enough movement, is to take a quick glance at
the extensive salt marshes of San Fernando, whose production is very
significant and employs a large number of workers.

       The salt is monopolized in Spain, probably prove an infinite gratitude
to God for having surrounded by the sea to the Spanish mainland.

This monopoly (the state that produces a strong income, however smuggling) provides the Spanish
to the invaluable benefits of eating the salt of their huge costs and expensive bad, but why
stop doing business the big speculators who exploit salt waterproof.

The City of San Fernando, Cadiz separate fortresses, ramparts and a large sea trench that cuts the
island of Leon, is located towards the end of this, which is linked
to the mainland by two bridges.

Nearby there are numerous orchards, and everywhere revealed in the vast salt marshes, the gunners and
factories, the nature of their production. Its main elements are: salt, in a very large sum
(which is exported), land metalloids pickles and cast objects and marina, as well as arts and
crafts. The situation, of city ​​is curious, by the way for the semi-circular canal surrounding
side continent and that determines the island. It seems as if two long bays or languages ​​slimmest
sea ​​water were to crash and confused under the bridges of Zuazo and Chiclana, which give
way into the country.

San Fernando has general similarities to Cadiz in its field structure, and appearance is little
more or less similar.

There is another characteristic that its astronomical observatory, which is much lower than in
Cadiz, so famous in the Spanish and Colombian geography. The population San Fernando reached
about 17.000 inhabitants, generally industrious and engaged in rough manufacturing jobs and
artifacts. The countless inns or isolated houses ahead San Fernando to Cadiz side has an original
and picturesque, this is where crowds of thousands of workers employed at the shipyard of the Ratchet
and many factories in the vicinity, forming at certain times of day many groups as lively as
curious. Passing through the midst of them feel a strong smell of tar, salt and other materials
that reveal from the first moment the kind of occupation of these people.

The yard of the Carrack, a kind of floating population and solid at
the same time, which composed of ships, vast warehouses and workshops,
offers an interesting picture, not so much the merit of establishing
the air as workers, buildings, etc. It is in that shipyard, located
on the bay near the salt, as to 1.200 meters of San Fernando, where
Spain has one of the best naval factories.

There are built ships war, and sometimes even trade of all sizes and conditions, and becomes
the cowling, as well as working on a large scale canvas for sails, ropes, cables, etc. Thousands
of workers constantly work at that point in the bay and its vicinity, and in the manufacture
naval, and in the exploitation and manufacture of salt.
 Drusilla Browne, asserting
herself as an American matron, insisted that the invitation list should include the lowly as
well as the mighty. She had her way, and as a result, the bank employés, the French maids,
Antoine and the two corporals of Rapp-Thorberg's Royal Guard appeared on the floor in the grand
march directly behind Mr. Britt, Mr. Saunders, and Miss Pelham.

"One cannot discriminate at the charity ball," Drusilla had stoutly maintained. "The hoi polloi
and the riff-raff always get in at home. So, why not here? If we're going to have a charity
ball, let's give it the correct atmosphere."

"I shall feel as if I were dancing with my green grocer," lamented Lady Agnes. Later on, when
the dancing was at its height, she exclaimed with all the fervour of a charmed imagination:
"I feel as the Duchess de What's-her-name must have felt, Bobby, when she danced all night
at her own ball, and then dressed for the guillotine instead of going to bed. We may all be
shot in the morning."

The Indian fakirs and showmen gave a performance in the courtyard at midnight. They were followed
by the Bedouin tumblers and the inspired Persians, who danced with frantic abandon and the
ripe lust of joy. There was but one unfortunate accident. Mr. Rivers, formerly of the bank,
got very tight and fell down the steps leading to the courtyard, breaking his left arm.

Lord Deppingham and Chase kept their heads. They saw to it that the watch over the grounds
and about the château was strictly maintained. The former led the grand march with the Princess.
She was more ravishingly beautiful than ever. Her gown, exquisitely cool and simple, suggested
that indefinable, unmistakable touch of class that always marks the distinction between the
woman who subdues the gown and the gown which subdues the woman.

Hollingsworth Chase was dazzled. He discovered, much to his subsequent amusement, that he was
holding his breath as he stared at her from the opposite side of the banquet hall, which had
been transformed into a ballroom. She had just entered with the Deppinghams. Something seemed
to shout coarsely, scoffingly in his ear: "Now, do you realise the distance that lies between?
She was made for kings and princes, not for such as you!"

He waited long before presenting himself in quest of the dance he hungered for so greedily--afraid
of her! She greeted him with a new, brighter light in her eyes; a quiver of delight, long in
restraint, came into her voice; he saw and felt the welcome in her manner.

The blood surged to his head; he mumbled his request. Then, for the first time, he was near
to holding her close in his arms--he was clasping her fingers, touching her waist, drawing
her gently toward his heart. Once, as they swept around the almost empty ballroom, she looked
up into his eyes. Neither had spoken. His lips parted suddenly and his fingers closed down
upon hers. She saw the danger light in his eyes and knew the unuttered words that struggled
to his lips and stopped there. She never knew why she did it, but she involuntarily shook her
head before she lowered her eyes. He knew what she meant. His heart turned cold again and the
distance widened once more to the old proportions.

He left her with Bobby Browne and went out upon the cool, starlit balcony. There he gently
cursed himself for a fool, a dolt, an idiot.

The shouts of laughter and the clapping of hands on the inside did not draw him from his unhappy
reverie. He did not know until afterward that the official announcement of the engagement of
Miss Minnie Pelham and Thomas Saunders was made by Bobby Browne and the health of the couple
drunk in a series of bumpers.

Chase's bitter reflections were at last disturbed by a sound that came sharply to his attention.
He was staring moodily into the night, his cigarette drooping dejectedly in his lips. The noise
came from directly below where he stood. He peered over the stone railing. The terrace was
barely ten feet below him; a mass of bushes fringed the base of the wall, dark, thick, fragrant.
Some one was moving among these stubborn bushes; he could hear him plainly. The next moment
a dark figure shot out from the shadows and slunk off into night, followed by another and another
and yet others, seven in all. Chase's mind refused to work quickly. He stood as one petrified
for a full minute, unable to at once grasp the meaning of the performance.

Then the truth suddenly dawned upon him. The prisoners had escaped from the dungeon!

He dashed into the ballroom and shouted the alarm. Confusion ensued. He called out sharp commands
as he rushed across to where Deppingham was chatting with the Princess.

"There's been treachery," he explained quickly. "Some one has released the prisoners. We must
keep them from reaching the walls. They will overpower our guards and open the gates to the
enemy. Britt, see that the searchlight is trained on the gates. We must stop those fellows
before it is too late. It
is against the poor against the worst criticism and interpretation given by some people sham
facts you refer.

High society, composed of subjects better educated than the masses, and most favored Fortunately,
neither is nor can be, or you want to be more corrupt and vicious than the common people ignorant
and low. Statement that the fund would be anti-progressive and anti-democratic
and in his last result, we would like to Rousseau to identify under
and savagery.

It is good to keep in mind, finally, that virtue is far from silent, modest and of retiring, while
the vice budge, shocks and stirs up everywhere. In contrast Duchess of cheerful you paint, is
certainly not a few others confined to their homes and without giving
anything to say, are very noble paragon of garments used in charity
and mercy.

If anything, I blame you, not to retract, in writing, but to continue writing and corrected,
is the gloomy pessimism that rather than feel it takes you by fashion: pessimism that in our
age of less faith than the centuries, has the desperation to end and that not so divine, otherworldly
and happy to put on his plays, poems, legends and other writings by authors such as Calderón whom
we have already mentioned.

    So what if the world
    is, not only the valley of
    tears, but dark cavern of
    infamy and wickedness, if shines again, beating him, dominating and
even forgiving all

The tree sovereign Iris peace that God put Among
the wrath of Heaven And the crimes of the world?

I venture, therefore, to advise you, because she is so young and it has no reason to complain their
misfortune, not a preacher goal yet, or show such stern and disappointed, and other novels
that tell us less serious incidents and events and more pleasant
and sweet, pouring into his satire, satire when lean, not ice, but
salt and pepper, not make it bitter, but spicy and tasty.

Anyway insist advise you not to draw back and continue writing. Although presume no prophet
is too easily predict and forecast, in view of spontaneity that you write, that all future novels will
be read with pleasure and may serve and serve as an innocent pastime,
if not also contain, which also can be expected, moral lessons and
all kinds of sound doctrine.

       

FIN

* * * * *

WORKS OF DON JUAN VALERA

Pepita Jiménez, a vol. at 8. º, 3 pts.

Luz, a vol. at 8. º, 3.

El Comendador Mendoza, a vol. at 8. º, 3.

Something of everything, one vol. at 12. º, 2.50.

The Illusions of Doctor Faustino, two vols. at 8. º, 5.

Too clever, a vol. at 12. º, 2.50.

The reputation, a vol. at 16. º with engravings, 2.50.

The sorcerer. The prehistoric bermejino. Blue salamanders, a vol.
at 16. º engravings 2.50.

Daphnis and Chloe (Greek translation),
a vol. at 8. º, 3.

Critical studies, three vols. at 12. º, 9.

Dissertations
and literary judgments, two vols. at 12. º, 6.

Stories and dialogues,
a vol. at 12. º, 2.50.

Poetry and art of the Arabs in Spain and Sicily,
three volumes in 12. º, 9.

Dramatic attempts, a vol. at 12. º, 2.50.

Songs,
ballads and poems, a vol. at 12. º, 5.

Stories, dialogues and fantasies,
a vol. at 12. º, 5.

New critical studies, a vol. at 12. º, 5.

American
Letters (first series), a vol. at 12. No, 1. He had been seized from within as he came to the grating in response
to a call. While certain fingers choked him into silence, others held his hands and still others
wrenched the keys from his sash. After that it was easy. Deppingham, Chase and Selim looked
at each other in horror--and, strange as it may seem, relief.

Death was there, but, after all, Death is no traitor.

CHAPTER XXIII

THE JOY OF TEMPTATION

The revolting details were kept from the women. They were not permitted to know of the ugly
thing that sweltered in the dark corridor below their very feet. Late in the night, a small
body of men, acting under orders, carried the unfortunate guard down into the valley and buried
him. Only the most positive stand on the part of the white men prevented the massacre of the
prisoners by the friends and fellow-servants of the murdered man. A secret trial by jury, at
a later day, was promised by Lord Deppingham.

There was but little sleep in the château that night. The charity ball was forgotten--or if
recalled at all, only in connection with the thought of what it came so near to costing its
promoters.

No further disturbances occurred. A strict watch was preserved; the picturesque drawbridge
was lifted and there were lights on the terrace and galleries; men slept within easy reach
of their weapons. The siege had begun in earnest. Men had been slain and their blood was crying
out for vengeance; the voice of justice was lost in the clamourings of rage.

Breakfast found no laggards; the lazy comforts of the habitually late were abandoned for the
more stirring interests that had come to occupy the time and thoughts of all concerned. The
Princess was quite serene. She lightly announced that the present state of affairs was no worse
than that which she was accustomed to at home. The court of Rapp-Thorberg was ever in a state
of unrest, despite its outward suggestion of security. Outbreaks were common among the masses;
somehow, they were suppressed before they grew large enough to be noticed by the wide world.

"We invariably come out on top," she philosophised, "and so shall we here. At home we always
eat, drink and make merry, for to-morrow never comes."

"That's all very nice," said Lady Agnes plaintively, "but I'm thinking of yesterday. Those
fellows who were killed can't die to-morrow, you know; it occurred to them yesterday. It's
always yesterday after one dies."

Soon after breakfast was over, Chase announced his intention to visit each of the gates in
turn. The Princess strolled with him as far as the bridge at the foot of the terrace. They
stopped in the shade of a clump of trees that hung upon the edge of the stream. As they were
gravely discussing the events of the night, Neenah came up to them from beyond the bridge.
Her dark, brilliant face was glowing with excitement; the cheerful adoration that one sees
in a dog's eyes shone in hers as she salaamed gracefully to the "Sahib." She had no eyes for
royalty.

"Excellency," she began breathlessly, "it is Selim who would have private speech with the most
gracious sahib. It is to be quick, excellency. Selim is under the ground, excellency."

"In the cellars?"

"Yes, excellency. It is so dark there that one cannot see, but Neenah will lead you. Selim
has sent me. But come now!"

Chase felt his ears burn when he turned to find a delicate, significant smile on Genevra's
lips. "Don't let me detain you," she said, ever so politely.

"Wait, please!" he exclaimed. "Is Selim hurt?" he demanded of Neenah, who shook her head vigorously.

"Then, there is no reason why you should not accompany us. Princess."

"I am not at all necessary to the undertaking," she said coldly, turning to leave him.

"Selim has found fuses and gunpowder laid in the cellars, excellency--in the secret vaults,"
began Neenah eagerly, divining the cause of the white lady's hesitation.

This astounding piece of news swept away the feeble barrier Genevra would have erected in her
pique. Eagerly she joined in questioning the Persian girl, but Neenah would only reply that
Selim was waiting for the sahib. The Princess was immeasurably consoled to find that the body-servant
had destroyed the fuses and that they were in no immediate danger of being blown to pieces.
She consented to accompany Chase into the cellars, a spirit of adventure overcoming certain
scruples which might have restrained her under other conditions.

Neenah led them through the wine cellars and down into the vaults beyond the dungeons. They
descended three steep flights of stone steps, into the cold, damp corridors of the lowermost
cellars. Neenah explained that it was necessary to move cautiously and without lights. Selim
was confident that there was at least one traitor among the servants. The Princess clutched
Chase's hand tightly as they stole through the bleak, chill corridor; she found herself wondering
if the girl was to be trusted. What if she were leading them into a trap? She would have whispered
her fears into Chase's ear had not a sharp "sh!" come from the girl who was leading. Genevra
felt a queer little throb of hatred for the girl--she could not explain it.

The dungeon was off to the right. They could hear the insistent murmur of voices, with now
and then a laugh from the distant cells. The guard could be heard scoffing at his charges.
With a caution that seemed wholly absurd to the two white people, Neenah guided them through
the maze of narrow passages, dark as Erebus and chill as the grave. Chase checked a hysterical
impulse to laugh aloud at the proceedings; it was like playing at a children's game.

He was walking between the two women, Neenah ahead, Genevra behind; each clasped one of his
hands. Suddenly he found himself experiencing an overpowering desire to exert the strength
of his arm to draw the Princess close--close to his insistent body. The touch of her flesh,
the clutch of her cold little hand, filled him with the most exquisite sense of possession;
the magnetism of life charged from one to the other, striking fire to the blood; sex tingled
in this delicious riot of the senses; all went to inspire and encourage the reckless joy that
was mastering him. He felt his arm grow taut with the irresistible impulse. He was forgetting
Neenah, forgetting himself--thinking only of the opportunity and its fascination. In another
instant he would have drawn her hand to his lips: Neenah came to a standstill and uttered a
warning whisper. Chase recovered himself with a mighty start, a chill as of one avoiding an
unseen peril sweeping over him. Genevra heard the sharp, painful intake of his breath and felt
the sudden relaxation of his fingers. She was not puzzled; she, too, had felt the magic of
the touch and her blood was surging red; she knew, then, that she had been clasping his hand
with a fervour that was as unmistakable as it was shameless.

She was again forgetting that princesses should dwell in the narrow realm of self.

Neenah may have felt the magnetic current that coursed through these surcharged creatures:
she was smiling mysteriously to herself.

"Wait here," she whispered to Chase, ever so softly. She released his hand and moved off in
the blackness of the passage. "I will bring Selim," came back to them.

"Oh!" fell faintly, tremulously from Genevra's lips. It was a trap, after all! But it was not
the trap laid by a traitor. She fell all a-quiver. Her heart fluttered violently, her breath
came quickly. Alone with him--and their blood leaping to the touch that thrilled!

Chase could no more have restrained the hand that went out suddenly in quest of hers than he
could have checked his own heart throbs. A wave of exquisite joy swept over him--the joy of
a temptation that knew no fear or conscience. He found her cold little hand and clasped it
in tense fingers--fingers that throbbed with the call to passion. He drew her close--their
bodies touched and sweetly trembled. His lips were close to her ear--the smell of her hair
was in his quivering nostrils. He heard her quick, sharp breathing.

"Are you afraid?" he whispered in tones he had never heard before.

"Yes," she murmured convulsively--"of you! Please, please, don't!" At the same time, she tightened
her clutch upon his hand and crept closer to him, governed by an unconquerable craving. Chase
had the sensation of smothering; he could not believe the senses which told him that she was
responding to his appeal. His brain was whirling, his heart bounding like mad. Her voice, soft
and appealing, turned his blood to fire.

"Genevra!" he murmured--almost gasped--in his delirium. Their bodies were pressed close to
each other--his arms went about her slender figure suddenly and she was strained to his breast,
locked to him with bonds that seemed unbreakable. Her face was lifted to his. The blackness
of the passage was impenetrable, but love was the guide. He found her lips in one wild, glorious
kiss.

A door creaked sharply. He released her. Their quivering arms fell away; they drew ever so
slightly apart, still under the control of the influence which had held them for that brief
moment. She was trembling violently. A soft, wailing sigh, as of pain, came from her lips.

Then the glimmer of a light came to them through the half open door at the end of the passage.
They gazed at it without comprehension, dumb in their sudden weakness. A shadowy figure came
out through the door and Selim's voice, low and tense, called to them.

Still speechless, they moved forward involuntarily. He did not attempt to take her hand. He
was afraid--vastly afraid of what he had done, unaccountable as it may seem. That piteous sigh
wrought shame in his heart. He felt that he had wronged her--had seized upon a willing, hapless
victim when she had not the power to defend herself against her own impulses.

"Forgive me," he murmured.

"It is too late," she replied. Then his hand sought hers again and, dizzy with emotion, he
led her up to the open door. As they passed into the huge, dimly lighted chamber, he turned
to look into her face. She met his gaze and there were tears in her eyes. Selim was ahead of
them. She shook her head sadly and he understood.

"Can we ever forget?" she murmured plaintively.

"Never!" he whispered.

"Then we shall always regret--always regret!" she said, withdrawing her hand. "It was the beginning
and the end."

"Not the end, dearest one--if we are always to regret," he Interposed eagerly. "But why the
end? You do love me! I know it! And I worship you--oh, you don't know how I worship you, Genevra!
I--"

"Hush! We were fools! Don't, please! I do not love you. I was carried away by--Oh, can't you
understand? Remember what I am! You knew and yet have degraded me in my own eyes. Is my own
self-respect nothing? You will laugh and you may boast after I am married to--"

"Genevra!" he protested as if in great pain.

"Excellency," came from the lips of Selim, at the lower end of the chamber, breaking in sharply
upon their little world. "There is no time to be lost." Time to be lost! And he had held her
in his arms! Time to be lost! All the rest of Time was to be lost! "They may return at any moment."

Chase pulled himself together. He looked into her eyes for a moment, finding nothing there
but a command to go. She stood straight and unyielding on the very spot which had seen her
trembling with emotion but a moment before.

"Coming, Selim," he said, and moved away from her side as Neenah came toward them from the
opposite wall. In the background is a vast expanse of land traversed by unequal the murky
Guadalquivir, where hills alternate manifold, small plains, inclines, narrow canyons and plains
interspersed with the smiling valleys which is the river in its twists and turns whimsical, down
a deep channel and clay, among large granite rocks and slices in several stretches.

Finally, if you look closer, removing the view of the winding strip of Guadalquivir (á whose
margins delay Ubeda, Baeza and Andujar), there is a series of inclined planes fertile hills
and glens of luxurious vegetation and cultivation esmeradísimo, where the road turns in search of Baylen.
Funny everywhere cottages with vast groves bordering the way or disclaim the inheritance, crystal
streams and busy they seem to leave with joy the harshness of the mountains to go hop on hop
to take the Guadalquivir their murmurs and liquid pearls; extensive vineyards on the most bare
hills and mountains; many plantations of vegetables, grains and seeds; considerable areas populated
in symmetrical rows of olive trees, fruit trees at the edge of the road and in the gay gardens;
olive mill here, beyond a few cows grazing in the fallow, near the picturesque little house; groups
of simple and happy peasants, working together men and women, the elderly and children, everywhere
vegetables, water jumping, flowers, life-giving sun, shadows delicious work, activity, strength,
life, happiness and welfare.

The traveler descends with pleasure by those inclined planes, bowing to the Andalusia a land of
love and prosperity, and even if you see that there is much yet to improve or do and that those
people are just in childhood, they are forgiving grace defect qualities they reveal. When the
races have fulfilled their mission in their respective times, according to the measure of his mettle
and character they need in order not to deteriorate, crosses that will rejuvenate and breathe
new print. The great work of the Spanish race in civilization was the conquest of the New World.
Accomplished this great and momentous epic the Spanish people had to seek its strength and activity
items in partnerships with other families of mankind, otherwise down. This truth is revealed in
Spain and in big as in the small. Wherever there is a mixture of races - in Catalonia, Andalusia
and Basque provinces - is the strength, activity, life, and the weakness and stagnation manifested
in Castile, Galicia and Asturias, where race has remained almost totally pure.

In the villages of the Sierra Morena did, in small, the same observation.

There blood Germany has been mixed with the Hispano-Arabic, resulting in a robust set of families,
intelligent, industrious, peaceful and beautiful type. I loved to contemplate, in passing the
funny group of kids, dressed in pretty toilet, pink, blond, light jumping like birds to round
the diligence, in the main streets of Carolina and others populations, offering travelers flowers
and fruit while the grandmothers and mothers, sitting at the doors of their houses, looked at us
with a sympathetic curiosity, not suspended why the work of hand or the movement of the spindle
indefatigable. They did not ask for alms, although in Andalusia, for reasons mentioned later,
is also in the cities and villas large number of beggars.

Out and the spurs of the mountains and near the bottom of the undulating
valley of the Guadalquivir delay the ancient village of Baylen, on
an incline surrounded by high hills and midst of vast olive groves
are the main wealth there.

Baylen is a poblachon ugly, uneven, dirty, crooked streets (legitimate old Spanish type, dating nothing
less to the year 729), with a population of just over 8,000 souls, some object factories very
coarse, heavy oil production (very badly prepared, as almost all of Spain) and many common
canvas looms. Bad lunch there, eat worse, the wine is Malena, and you want to follow up hastily.

Very
near the village lies the uneven field where it took place on 16 and 19 July 1808 the battle
and the famous battle of "Baylen," which were the basis of independence Spanish in the fight against
Napoleon. Taking into account the military capacity of the medium General Brown, who won there,
the poor quality of his troops, the vast superiority of French, by
their number, quality and position in the field of battle, and the
skills of quarterback Dupont, who sent them, will find that perhaps
has not been without foundation the view that complete loss of the
French army was due to treason.

There were 40.000 French expired almost without a fight: 3,000 dead, 20,000 prisoners, including
seven general many thousands scattered, 45 guns and all the equipment in the hands of Brown.

My
two companions as loyal French longed to cross the field of Baylen.

- U Do not think - I was told both noble sincerity, - that makes us sigh the memory of defeat, no.
Baylen is that it is not for us but a shameful page in history France, spotted by an unjust
war of treachery and usurpation, committed against a people brother, in spite of the French nation.

-
Then there is no reason to remember the event with regret. That evil can not tax consciousness
revolutionary France, she weighs about the memory of the despot who,
born of revolution, turned his back and pushed the world with the
weight of his sword.

- It's true - he said Mr. B. ...,-- but history
is history, and the vulgar confused often the work of despots with
the people.

We passed shortly by the Guadalquivir, deep, slow and quiet, a beautiful suspension bridge thrown
over huge rocks, touch, about 16 miles Baylen, in the village of Menjivar, located on fertile ground
and with about 1,600 inhabitants, and through fields and pretty rough
usually grown, we, about 36 miles ahead, with the curious city of
Jaen, of picturesque situation, dominated by a high hill on top of
which holds an old castle formidable a while and now happily ruined,
and the walls and other strengths circulating population.

Jaen, a city of the third order in Spain, in its proportions, has
21.520 inhabitants, generally poor, despite the country's suitability
for a host of major productions such as wine, oil, grains and minerals.

All that country, essentially mountainous, although spontaneous vegetation bare, abounds in
vast deposits of iron, lead, silver, mercury, coal, marble top, etc.,
entering the mineralogical composition two saws that cut through the
Andalucías.

And HOWEVER, mining is just beginning to be A whole industry, agriculture does not progress
and the inhabitants of Jaen are very poor. It all depends on the lack of communications, because
with the exception of the main road there but very bad roads and sidewalks almost impassable to
a regular trade. Spain is a country marvelously rich in its entirety, but the indigenous wealth
without changing anything goes.

I can not describe to Jaen, because there we scarcely twenty minutes
of rest.

The traveler who wants to stop in between, is exposed to not continue their journey in many days, because
the seats of measures are taken in cities that serve as points starting. The general structure
of Jaen, a former residence of a viceroy or wren Moor is essentially Moorish, as it should be
assumed. Everywhere narrow winding streets large paved with river pebbles, uneven terrain, abundant
sources (because Moros loved much water), houses with roofs and balconies, galleries of arches
in the form of horseshoe, or with very small pockets, and strange and whimsical constructions.
The cathedral Jaen is famous for a few precious details, but a whole lacks exterior character
which makes it more curious, revealing the succession of various styles. The base was the great
mosque and as he swarmed over Gothic and Renaissance works, was an architectural jargon, original
and very special in Moorish Spain.

Follow the road towards Granada course by the end of a narrow and lovely little valley, formed
by the stream called Rio de Jaen, a tributary of the Guadalquivir, like all current that mediate
between Sierra Morena and Sierra Nevada. Amid the maze of hills and mountains bare and steep,
alternating the formidable granite formations with strata limestone, shale layers disrupted
the banks of sandstone and volcanic cliffs, occido iron that appear, the valley has a unique
charm, by rumors of the stream, the happy gardens that nuanced, elegant groups of white poplars,
small vineyards which sometimes are seen as picking up its branches on the cliffs, the scattered
olive trees and other fruit trees, the islands of short duration that occur in the channel variable,
and small groups jumping goats graze on rough hillsides that dominate the landscape.

After going through some half-deserted sales, which serve to relieve
the shots, we to around 36 km from Jaen to the town called Campillo
de Arenas, of 1.900 inhabitants located in a small plain, which and
the surrounding hills for any match is drawn general production of
Andalusia, which consists of wine, oil, fruits and grains mainly.

Various farms and sales happen after, completing the transition from the center Sierra Morena to
Granada, on the route, a total of more than 40.650 inhabitants, almost all belonging to the
province of Jaen. The night had come, quite dark, and it was midnight when we were walking on the
main street of Granada.

The eight provinces of race Hispano-Arabic (Almeria, Cadiz, Cordoba, Granada, Huelva, Jaén, Malaga
and Seville), which make itself the vast and mountainous region of Andalusia, including between
the Sierra Morena, the Mediterranean and the Atlantic - have a total population of 2,921,102
inhabitants, the most industrious of Spain (general mass) after the Catalans. The capitals of
the eight provinces gathered 446,342 residents (the sixth and one-half of the population Andalusia)
- and that figure correspond to the city of Granada 68,743 individuals.

If there to carve out a detailed comparative study of how population is distributed in Spain,
there would be more of an interesting education.

Regardless of Catalonia, a country so exceptional, is, for example, a profound difference in the appearance
and conditions of two regional statistics that are played: the Andalusia New Castile and Estremadura.
Geographically, the first of these divisions is quite inferior to the other, geographically,
of Andalusia, in spite of the commercial advantage of their coastline, have a great disadvantage
for New Castile and Estremadura.

In this region is much more equal ground, spontaneous, and own astonishingly fertile for various
and highly valuable productions. In Andalusia, with the exception of the plains of Seville the Vega of
Granada, the valleys are very low in general, wherever the land is uneven, rocky, crossed by a labyrinth
of hills, great hills, sharp hills and deep gullies. Thus, the exploitable part of the floor
and is very small Andalucías compared to its geographical range.

And HOWEVER, wherever they can grow some plants that can sustain production anyone see it appear
in Andalusia, building up the smaller valleys or the more limited
plains.

And as the land is broken by the prodigiously many inflections terrain, there has been a rare
phenomenon in life appears all exploitable gaps in the country, but doomed by nature, temporarily isolation.
In the vast plains of Extremadura, La Mancha and the high Tajo, nature has allowed the accumulation
and easy communication social masses, as well as continuity of very large-scale cultivation.
And yet, the regions can not sustain high compared social and economic with Andalusia, in spite
of certain advantages from the centers political and religious (Madrid and Toledo) and others
that are not negligible.

What is the actual superiority, of Andalusia? Is it the most fertile? - No. Is it the largest exploitable
land? - Less. Is it by virtue of communications Shipping? - They only directly benefit the
peoples of the coast.

Is it because of the infusion of African blood in the primitive race of Spain? - Is it because
the institutions of feudalism, later absolutism and Roman Catholicism could not be implanted
in the Andalucías so deeply as in Castile? - Without attempting to give the solution, I can
not but recognize contrast energy and interest that these phenomena have for the statesman.
For my part I will say that the quick observation I confirmed these contrasts, rather than reading
lots books, in my liberal beliefs.

Granada itself, compared with the historical Moorish Granada, is an eloquent testimony in favor of the
doctrine of justice, tolerance and progress. Located to the side setentrional gorgeous valley
watered by the Jenil, at the foot of two high hills, spurs of the
mountains dividing the Darro, which runs through a deep bed, Granada
has one of the more positions quaint, but charming oriental taste
that you have chosen in Andalusia Seat of capital.

Almost at the top forming the Sierra-Nevada southeast of Granada, the beautiful Jenil born, whose
little waves and wide valleys have inspired so many poets; crosses the plain or famous Veya, which is
40 kilometers in circumference, and collects the water coming down from the mountains in the
Dilao, the monachi, the Alfacar, the Darro and other streams that fertilize the country. La Sierra
east and south as a sort of semicircle, giving off a branch of mountains and hills whose base is
a rare reclining as Granada poetic heights between two strands separate by the Darro. One holds
on its slopes superimposed Alhambra and Jeneralife, the other the
westernmost, face it in a parallel line and gives entry to the chapels
on and the seminar of Monte Santo and Albaicin strange neighborhood,
populated by families of Gypsies.

The foot of the Alhambra and the city Albaicin extends on both banks of the Darro Jenil and right,
down a slanted toward Vega.

Nothing stranger than the physiognomy of the city, simultaneously Gothic, Arabic and Gypsy - artist
and manufacturer, - religious and voluptuous, - rich and ragged, - full of gardens and miseries-bella
and horrible, - lively and cadaverous, - hope and debris at the same
time.

Everything there is contrast - set most diverse types - the most complex features of social physiognomy
- can be found. If you see some streets and alleys spacious and bright, the bulk of the city is
cut by dirty streets, winding, dark, paved with pebbles, very narrow, complicated maze, completely
Moorish. If you hear the clatter of passing the workshops or the noise of the looms or small
factories of different objects, is also felt at every step the clamor of the bands of ragged
and squalid beggars .-- If you admire the wonders divine art, feels a deep sadness to probe prostitution
undermines some classes .-- If referred to the Catholic gathering, full of pomp and majesty, admiring
the many details of the palaces of oriental voluptuousness appreciated .-- If Markedly, beautiful
Andalusian awake the best race, read a history of miseries and crimes, persecutions and deep pain.
In the bronzed figure in the eye magnificent, savage, in the proud but sad smile .... Gypsy

To
say that Grenada is the synthesis of history and Spanish-Arabic society,
it is stated what is on their material structure that city.

Precious little detail in order the two civilizations, a strange set, ugly but very interesting,
contradictory and sad and all framed in a wonderful part of natural beauties. A theater, numerous
barracks some institutes of education, charity and worship, medium industries, gambling, prostitution, - of
anything and everything, this is the guy who offers the general mass. In that there is anything
in Granada to draw attention. His interest is in the details, and in this respect is Granada most
curious of the capital of Spain - Toledo and Seville but they are so interesting. Thus, to gain
a full picture of things, as an artist, it would need to reside months Whole Grain.

When you leave the labyrinth of dirty streets, or go down the sad neighborhood Albaicin, or are
abandoned public cafes (poorly served but always crowded), or hotels or inns (where the guest
is hungry for failure to settle with disgusting food), the stranger may find compensation in public
places called the classroom. If the bad taste is reflected in the fountains that adorn the
main the pomp and splendor of this vast vault of greenery is unparalleled. A vast hall outdoors
more than 300 meters long and 40 wide, extends to the end Main Street between it and the Jenily
the Darro. I have not ever seen a vegetable Basilica comparable to
that.

The sun can not penetrate it with his rays, and a walk around, drunk per thousand perfumes,
between the rows of colossal elms and other trees, whose trunks are columns in the most sumptuous
vault - and hobnobbing with groups of men and women whose faces is the Arabic expression - can
not but evoke all the memories Granada's history.

Those women look hot and seductive smile, those dresses, colorful ones, other pompous and daring
those floating mats that inevitably accompany their hours of laziness in Spanish, the distant
echoes of instruments to invite to pleasure, the vast gardens extending thence Jenil, studded with
jasmine, pomegranate, roses and carnations, which positively intoxicating aromas, warm breezes
and rejoice the heart, and several incidents they call attention
to the customs, everything seems to love the idea of ​​burning, of
strong passions, abandonment and the voluptuousness of the Oriental.

But the night comes and at nine o'clock that city no more moving, inciting strong emotions,
it seems as if asleep. At this time the silence is almost complete, and the traveler who wanders
the streets be created as a solitary wanderer in a vast cemetery. What do the people at that
hour? - Do they work in their homes or shops, or sold in their stores, or pray? ... I do not
know if they make very poor homes or very good, I know is that vegetate.

Among the objects that attract public attention in the center of the city, deserve mention (Apart
from the cathedral, then speak) not just some curious and some buildings churches old singular forms,
but also: theater, museum and Sacatin. There is for which ensure that Granada has its inevitable Spanish
circuses: the bulls and the roosters. The theater, but without any luxury, it is very nice,
but often poorly served, as almost every theater in Spain, which plays to drama and comedy. In
Grenada, as in All cities in Spain, saw a notable vulgarity in most of the actors. The bullfighter
- the artist's death - is where you want elegant, beautiful, magnificent
in its class.

The actor, with rare exceptions, is commoner, a brutal buffoon and not know how to interpret
the noble inspirations of the poet.

The Granada Theater (work that is due to the Sebastiani French general, who ruled the country at
the risk of Napoleon) saw perform operettas and dances of French style that I found supremely ridiculous.
The French exaggerated in Spain but does not produce cartoons. No I've seen of choreography
is nothing as funny as a Spanish dancing the bolero, the vulture or the cap, but I have not seen
anything so ridiculous (in all Spanish cities) like those saucy peninsular invented by developments
(unfortunately for the art) by dancers in Paris. The body plump, vigorous, and turning the
Spanish not provides air to the fantasies (almost pure spectacle) of the French dancer, who needs to
invent a thousand fascinations and figures to conceal its thinness and ugliness and bear the
same time agility and grace of gesture and movement.

Granada museum contains, among many other things insignificant, several beauties of the time
of the Moors, and some paintings far superior. In general, Andalusia a country rich in treasures
of this kind, and after admirable in any museum in Madrid part of Spain can be found as beautiful
pictures as Granada, Seville and other cities Andalusia. What treasures of Murillo and Ribera,
Cano, Palomino, Zurbarán, Herrera and many other teachers, scattered throughout the country of
love voluptuous and delicate art!

One thing notable in Granada, in the Plaza del Campillo, dominated
by the theater, it holds a monument dedicated to the memory of Spanish
Talma, - the illustrious Máiquez Isidore, son Granada, as the artist
Alonso Cano triple and the dramatic poet Lope de Rueda.

But this monument has not been raised by Spain, but by three artists, heirs of the genius of
Máiquez: the two Romea and Matilde Diez.

The Sacatin, which I mentioned, is a curious Moorish building that gives its name to a neighborhood
where its internal trade. It is composed of a homogeneous group of buildings, linked, so as to form
a single block, but divided by equal callejuelitas or corridors, which intersect at right angles,
forming a network of regular lines.
 But I am a sensible creature, Mr. Chase,
and, being sensible, am therefore selfish. I have seen women of my unhappy station venture
out side of their narrow confines in the search for life-long joy with men who might have been
kings had they no been born under happier stars--men of the great wide world instead of the
soulless, heartless patch which such as I call a realm. Not one in a hundred of those women
found the happiness they were so sure of grasping just outside their prison walls. It was not
in the blood. We are the embodiment of convention, the product of tradition. Time has proved
in nearly every instance that we cannot step from the path our prejudices know. We must marry
and live and die in the sphere to which we were born. It must sound very bald to you, but the
fact remains, just the same. We must go through life unloved and uncherished, bringing princes
into the world, seeing happiness and love just beyond our reach all the time. We have hearts
and we have blood in our veins, as you say, and we may love, too, but believe me, dear friend,
we are bound by chains no force can break--the chains of prejudice."

She had withdrawn her hands from his; he was standing before her as calm and unmoved as a statue.

"I understand all of that," he said, a faint smile moving his lips. She was not expecting such
resignation as this.

"I am glad that you--that you understand," she said.

"Just the same," he went on gently, "you love me as I love you. You kissed me. I could feel
love in you then. I can see it in you now. Perhaps you are right in what you say about not
finding happiness outside the walls, but I doubt it, Genevra. You will marry Prince Karl in
June, and all the rest of your life will be bleak December. You will never forget this month
of March--our month." He paused for a moment to look deeply into her incredulous eyes. His
face writhed in sudden pain. Then he burst forth with a vehemence that startled her. "My God,
I pity you with all my soul! All your life!"

"Don't pity me!" she cried fiercely. "I cannot endure that!"

"Forgive me! I shouldn't say such things to you. It's as if I were bullying you,"

"You must not think of me as unhappy--ever. Go on your own way, Hollingsworth Chase, and forget
that you have known me. You will find happiness with some one else. You have loved before;
you can and will love again. I--- I have never loved before--but perhaps, like you, I shall
love again. You will love again?" she demanded, her lip trembling with an irresolution she
could not control.

"Yes," he said calmly, "I'll love the wife of Karl Brabetz." His eyes swept hungrily over the
golden bronze hair; then he turned away with the short, hard laugh of the man who scoffs at
his own despair. She started violently; her cheek went red and white and her eyes widened as
though they were looking upon something unpleasant; her thoughts went back to the naïve prophecy
in the treasure chamber.

She followed him slowly to the terrace. He stopped in the doorway and leisurely drew forth
his cigarette case.

"Shall we wait for the explosion?" he asked without a sign of the emotion that had gone before.
She gravely selected a cigarette from the case which he extended. As he lighted his own, he
watched her draw from her little gold bag a diamond-studded case, half filled. Without a word
of apology, she calmly deposited the cigarette in the case and restored it to the bottom of
the bag.

Then she looked up brightly. "I am not smoking, you see," she said, with a smile. "I am saving
all of these for you when the famine comes."

"By Jove!" he exclaimed, something like incredulity in the smile that transfigured his face.

"I could be a thrifty housewife, couldn't I?" she asked naïvely.

At that moment, a dull, heavy report, as of distant thunder, came to their ears. The windows
rattled sharply and the earth beneath them seemed to quiver. Involuntarily she drew nearer
to him, casting a glance of alarm over her shoulder in the direction from which they had come.

"You could, if you had half a chance," he said drily, and then casually remarked the explosion.

CHAPTER XXV

THE DISQUIETING END OF PONG

Later on, he and Deppingham visited the underground chamber, accompanied by Mr. Britt. They
found that the door to the passage had been blown away by the terrific concussion. Otherwise,
the room was, to all appearances, undamaged, except that some of the wine casks were leaking.
The subterranean passage at this place was completely filled with earth and stone.

Deppingham stared at the closed mouth of the passage. Is not it better, however, take care of my finances in holy peace, and try to be
a good citizen, useful and active member of the social body, and a nice gentleman and entertaining? Now
that there is little fool or rascal is not a wise goal or governor of the town or a major character,
now, that all men are forever throwing speeches scientific societies, in clubs, assemblies
and other light sources, is not should be some who go to salons for the poor women are not
left alone, with no one to talk and entertain a little? You see if I have reason to follow away
from politics. As for the other council capital from you, I have nothing to object. In fact,
I married, but I do not want to marry to get married. To get that fearful union, that only death
breaks, I find women whom you trust and love, and whose spirit is open to me and show me that
can be durable, strong, holy, intimate communion with him. Let you find that woman and I will
point married.

- Sorry to tell you, Richard - said the Countess - that everything you're saying is heap of
sophistry and extravagance. If I indeed, and certainly not I, that Politics is only a means
to thrive in most of those engaged in it, more blame even the selfish who will not intervene
in politics because they are doing quite well. Still must presume that the materially seeking
is also seeking personal gain applause, glory, and feel moved by the desire to do good to everyone,
after all is not incompatible with his singular good, but the lazy, cold-hearted, the unbeliever, who,
not and because it does not need to bother thrive, because it is not involved in anything, and
do not know rather than censor everything, and says a thousand wrongs and no remedy to one
of the latter, I say, not no soul, the generous and benevolent that is, that lends itself to
assume anything good. The latter is worse and more despicable than the politicians interested
hustler assets. Pursued; works to end, and it's worth, and perhaps does good general, or try
to do, at the expense of fatigue and danger, when it seeks also, as is lawful and natural,
his own aggrandizement and profit.
 Deppingham's first futile attempt to appear unconcerned was
followed by an oppressive silence, broken at last by the Englishman. He gave Chase a look which
plainly revealed his uneasiness.

"Ever since I've heard that Bowles has the power to marry people, Chase, I've been upset a
bit," he explained nervously.

"You don't mean to say, Lord Deppingham, that you're afraid the heirs will follow the advice
of that rattle-headed Saunders," said Chase, with a laugh, "Why, it wouldn't hold in court
for a second. Ask Britt."

Britt cleared his throat. "Not for half a second," he said. "I'm only wondering if Bowles has
authority to grant divorces."

"I daresay he has," said Deppingham, tugging at his moustache. "He's--he's a magistrate."

"It doesn't follow," said Chase, "that he has unlimited legal powers."

"But what are they ragging him about down there, Chase," blurted out the unhappy Deppingham.

"Come in and have a drink," said Chase suddenly. Deppingham was shivering. "You've got a chill
in that damp cellar. I can assure you positively, as representative of the opposition, that
the grandchildren of Skaggs and Wyckholme are not going to divorce or marry anybody while I'm
here, Britt and Saunders and Bowles to the contrary. And Lady Deppingham is no fool. Come on
and have something to warm the cockles. You're just childish enough to have the croup to-night."
He said it with such fine humour that Deppingham could not take offence.

"All right, old chap," he said with a laugh. "I am chilled to the bone. I'll join you in a
few minutes." To their surprise, he started off across the terrace in the direction of the
consulting trio. Chase and Britt silently watched his progress. They saw him join the others,
neither of whom seemed to be confused or upset by his appearance, and subsequently enter into
the discussion that had been going on.

"Just the same, Chase," said Britt, after a long silence, "he's worried, and not about marriage
or divorce, either. He's jealous. I didn't believe it was in him."

"See here, Britt, you've no right to stir him up with those confounded remarks about divorce.
You know that it's rot. Don't do it."

"My dear Chase," said Britt, waving his hand serenely, "we can't always see what's in the air,
but, by the Eternal, we usually can feel it. 'Nough said. Give you my word, I can't help laughing
at the position you're in at present. It doesn't matter what you get onto in connection with
our side of the case, you're where you can't take advantage of it without getting killed by
your own clients. Horrible paradox, eh?"

When Deppingham rejoined them, he was pale and very nervous. His wife, who had been weeping,
came up with him, while Browne went off toward the stables with the ex-banker.

"What do you think has happened?" demanded his lordship, addressing the two men, who stood
by, irresolutely. "Somebody's trying to poison us!"

"What!" from both listeners.

"I've said it all along. Now, we know! Lady Deppingham's dog is dead--poisoned, gentlemen."
He was wiping the moisture from his brow.

"I'm sorry, Lady Deppingham," said Chase earnestly. "He was a nice dog. But I hardly think
he could have eaten what was intended for any of us. If he was poisoned, the poison was meant
for him and for no one else. He bit one of the stable boys yesterday. It--"

"That may all be very true, Chase," protested his lordship, "but don't you see, it goes to
show that some one has a stock of poison on hand, and we may be the next to get it. He died
half an hour after eating--after eating a biscuit that was intended for me! It's--it's demmed
uncomfortable, to say the least."

"Mr. Bowles has been questioning the servants," said Lady Agnes miserably.

"Of course," said Chase philosophically, "it's much better that Pong should have got it than
Lord Deppingham. By the way, who gave him the biscuit?"

"Bromley. She tossed it to him and he--he caught it so cleverly. You know how cunning he was,
Mr. Chase. I loved to see him catch--"

"Then Bromley has saved your life, Deppingham," said Chase. "I'm sure you need the brandy,
after all this. Come along. Will you join us, Lady Deppingham?"

"No. I'm going to bed!" She started away, then stopped and looked at her husband, her eyes
wide with sudden comprehension. "Oh, Deppy, I should have died! I should have died!"

"My dear!"

"I couldn't have lived if--"

"But, my dear, I didn't eat it--and here we are! God bless you!" He turned abruptly and walked
off beside her, ignoring the two distressed Americans. As they passed through the French window,
Deppingham put his arm about his wife's waist. Chase turned to Britt.

"I don't know what you're thinking, Britt, but it isn't so, whatever it is."

"Good Lord, man, I wasn't thinking that!"

A very significant fact now stared the occupants of the château in the face. There was not
the slightest doubt in the minds of those conversant with the situation that the poison had
been intended for either Lord or Lady Deppingham. The drug had been subtly, skilfully placed
in one of the sandwiches which came up to their rooms at eleven o'clock, the hour at which
they invariably drank off a cup of bouillon. Lady Deppingham was not in her room when Bromley
brought the tray. She was on the gallery with the Brownes. Bromley came to ask her if she desired
to have the bouillon served to her there. Lady Agnes directed her to fetch the tray, first
inviting Mrs. Browne to accept Lord Deppingham's portion. Drusilla declined and Bromley tossed
a sandwich to Pong, who was always lying in wait for such scraps as might come his way. Lady
Agnes always ate macaroons--never touching the sandwiches. This fact, of course, it was argued,
might not have been known to the would-be poisoner. Her ladyship, as usual, partook of the
macaroons and felt no ill effects. It was, therefore, clear that the poison was intended for
but one of them, as, on this occasion, a single sandwich came up from the buffet. No one but
Deppingham believed that it was intended for him.

In any event, Pong, the red cocker, was dead. He was in convulsions almost immediately after
swallowing the morsel he had begged for, and in less than three minutes was out of his misery,
proving conclusively that a dose of deadly proportions had been administered. It is no wonder
that Deppingham shuddered as he looked upon the stiff little body in the upper hall.

Drusilla Browne was jesting, no doubt, but it is doubtful if any one grasped the delicacy of
her humour when she observed, in mock concern, addressing the assembled mourners, that she
believed the heirs were trying to get rid of their incumbrances after the good old Borgia fashion,
and that she would never again have the courage to eat a mouthful of food so long as she stood
between her husband and a hymeneal fortune.

"You know, my dear," she concluded, turning to her Husband, "that I might have had Lord Deppingham's
biscuit. His wife asked me to take it. Goodness, you're a dreadful Borgia person, Agnes," she
went on, smiling brightly at her ladyship. Deppingham was fumbling nervously at his monocle.
"I should think you would be nervous, Lord Deppingham."

The most rigid questioning elicited no information from the servants. Baillo's sudden, involuntary
look of suspicion, directed toward Lady Agnes and Robert Browne, did not escape the keen eye
of Hollingsworth Chase.

"Impossible!" he said, half aloud. He looked up and saw that the Princess was staring at him
questioningly. He shook his head, without thinking.

Despair settled upon the white people. They were confronted by a new and serious peril: poison!
At no time could they feel safe. Chase took it upon himself to talk to the native servants,
urging them to do nothing that might reflect suspicion upon them. He argued long and forcefully
from the standpoint of a friend and counsellor. They listened stolidly and repeated their vows
of fidelity and integrity. He was astute enough to take them into his confidence concerning
the treachery of Jacob Von Blitz. It was only after most earnest pleading that he persuaded
them not to slay the German's wives as a temporary expedient.

One of the stable boys volunteered to carry a note from Chase to Rasula, asking the opportunity
to lay a question of grave importance before him. Chase suggested to Rasula that he should
meet him that evening at the west gate, under a flag of truce. The tone of the letter was more
or less peremptory.

Rasula came, sullen but curious. At first he would not believe; but Chase was firm in his denunciation
of Jacob von Blitz. Then he was pleased to accuse Chase of duplicity and double-dealing, going
so far as to charge the deposed American with plotting against Von Blitz to further his own
ends in more ways than one. At last, however, when he was ready to give up in despair, Chase
saw signs of conviction in the manner of the native leader. His own fairness, his courage,
had appealed to Rasula from the start. He did not know it then, but the dark-skinned lawyer
had always felt, despite his envy and resentment, a certain respect for his integrity and fearlessness.

He finally agreed to follow the advice of the American; grudgingly, to be sure, but none the
less determined.

"You will find everything as I have stated it, Rasula," said Chase. "I'm sorry you are against
me, for I would be your friend. I've told you how to reach the secret cave. The chests are
there. Southwest rocky headlands stand of hills which skirts
to delay the city of Algeciras, at some distance from its port and arsenal, and the British
and Spanish forts there look side to side over wave, sometimes angry, as if represents the permanent
fight or mute the challenge between the despair of an old conqueror of worlds, conquered by
his own fault, and quiet pride of a great nation that has found its strength and symbolizes
freedom all his genius with the cosmopolitan progressive trade, sovereign of the seas. For
all over the high peaks of the mountains, sad and naked, groups and steps picturesque hills
overlooking narrow valleys, and the most beautiful landscape of melancholy, Spanish territory,
while the British rock contrasts their blackened rocks and colossal, the picturesque city, its
gay gardens, its great fortifications, their lively ports and numerous merchant vessels and warships
anchored at the foot of the walls or in the central Gulf, gently tossed by the waves of a green
crystalline admirable.

At the bottom of the gulf, near the sea, the valley is a small town called Lina surrounded by
plantations, and higher, on a low hill, the small town of San Roque (founded after 1704), belonging,
and Algeciras, Cádiz province. The gulf has to input as 16 miles wide and a length towards
San Roque as 20 kilometers while the distance between the sides (or Gibraltar and Algeciras) is
about 9 or 10. The total population covered that coast horseshoe is as about 46.000 inhabitants
(Excluding military garrisons), accounting for 15,000 to Gibraltar, Algeciras 16.000 and the rest
to San Roque and Lina.

It was four o'clock when our steamer anchored to two hundred meters from the port Gibraltar.
The picture offered to our eyes was so quaint and gorgeous at the same time, they stayed for over
an hour watching him spellbound. We wanted to jump shore, but knowing that the city gates would
be closed at six and we lack time, we prefer to just wait the next day. A swarm of young men romping
naked in emerald waves and lazuli, swimming with delight or concern alternately and making changes
by the fumes and brigs of the port, following the money feluccas the light. Meanwhile across the Gulf
a small boat filled with banners, that came from Algeciras to Gibraltar, bringing him on board
a large band of merry walkers among whom were about five or six musicians. His sonatas were a
charming effect at the bottom of the gulf whispering surrounded by beautiful countryside. Gibraltar,
settled in its monumental rock amphitheater and extending towards the top to get lost among
jagged peaks, bosquedllos strengths and artificial, had, by the light flickering and the six
and a half In the afternoon, do not know what's great and severe for a whole, while much of eastern
of voluptuous and poetic for its features and melancholy of the moment.

At last the shadows of the night covered everything and the silence
was absolute.

From that picture full of light, life and whim, but there was a clear sky but opaque, the vast
shadow shifting of the sea, deep sobs on the horizon of darkness, standing at a distance almost
equal, groups of lights indicating the position of Gibraltar, San Roque and Algeciras contrasting with
the black moles of warships and trade seemed arise around, numb from the waves in a concert of sighs.
Strolling along the bridge, my companions and I were talking about French literature issue that
we came insensibly to mind apropos of a song that heralded Captain in one of the cabins.

- What services has made to literature in general, we say, - this monument floating is called a ship!
- The ship, whatever its size, is in itself a literature because
it is an entire civilization.

No one has created maritime literature, very special and perhaps the grandest, - poetry without
equal, full of mysteries, and travel, discovery, conquest, settlements, exchange of ideas between
peoples, astronomy and geodesy, maritime warfare etc., etc.: not only created the genres of literary
elements, we said, - but has literature developed immensely continental or land, means multiplying
expansion and regeneration of a prodigiously. What a wonderful thing is a ship! Not only a shell
of wood and iron that carries within it a portion of the vital force humanity is more still:
it is a separate civilization, - is the symbol of the mysterious power man to double the living
area of ​​your planet and submit to his service all elements, is a piece of home in each village
(accessory but no less real) seeking in the immensity of the seas the fraternal greeting of
other portions floating villages. The sea is not the limit of nations, continents and races.
No, it is otherwise he who removes the borders, who keeps the unity of the liquid element (embracing
and wrapping them around the world, and receiving with hospitality as the tribute of all people)
the image of the divine and eternal unity of Man with Man, logical deduction unit be created
with the Creator and Nature .... One day mankind will be one family, Ocean common lake millions
of neighbors and healthy siblings from each beach, and the ship without national flag, will
cross the lake universal, as anonymous as the car now rolling through the streets of a city without
distinction of address.

The next day at seven o'clock in the morning, we jumped to a felucca to visit to Gibraltar.
To set foot in the narrowest port near the first walls and the great door, and amid the cheerful
bustle of a marketplace, it was necessary to ask leave to enter,
written.

British officials did not deny ever, and there are transactions freely. Why leave then? Why not, if
Gibraltar is also a strength! Thus, this noble personal freedom that is the pride of English,
and struggle with passports, relentless and quarantine restrictions, suffers an exception in Gibraltar,
the only fact that there a set of machines barbarize the world. One simple example is testing
the strengths, fittings, warships, and all you have the character of armed, are but gross disturbances
of social order.

Despite its ancient origin and of Moorish and Spanish domination, Gibraltar is a town does
not have the sadness and monotony of cities of similar: it looks good that genius Britain has
changed the social condition and the appearance of the character
space complex.

The streets are usually clear, fair and regular, the houses of only two or three floors, cheerful,
whimsical gracefully, almost all painted in yellow and other colors and ornate balconies, shutters,
windows or balconies, depending on each individual's chairs English simplicity, oriental style, or
Spanish empiricism sometimes picturesque. Coffees and hotels abound, the synagogues, alternating
with the Catholic and Anglican churches, the rows of shops filled with curiosities rich are endless,
especially at 'street-Mayor; " and wherever there is a confusion of types and an animation
of curious and merchants to call much attention, noting that the city is a cosmopolitan neighborhood,
home brotherhood and change their products, the Spanish, English, Italian, Jewish and Moro
tangerine or tetuanés.

Nothing more picturesque and curious that all social groups and stores and Gibraltar. Despite
the confusion when people swarm, striking each at first glance, contrasts vividly impressed
on account of the smallness of stage.

The Englishman walks up measured, without arrogance but with the air safety which is always
the one who can say, 'Here I rule. "Her blonde hair, blue eyes her dress loose, free and elegant
but dull uniformity that makes it look like one piece, his impassive coldness, if it is a simple
merchant, - or his aristocratic pride, if an officer of the garrison or the British navy -
all strongly distinguishes it other types.

Meanwhile seen in the other faces the seal of the department, but without degradation. Spanish, porter
at the port, craftsman, road or dealer in Details, reserved, as if constantly oppress the
humiliating idea that inhabits a city founded on the floor of the
Peninsula, but dominated by a foreign power.

The Italians (which were very numerous), many of them refugees, fleeing the tyranny and misery,
maniestaban expatriate's grief, while instinctual satisfaction that feels free under a sky like
its homeland, and his conversation was simple, suggestive and noisy. The Jew and the Moor,
as quiet and dreamy wandering the streets of Gibraltar, with its picturesque and dirty clothes,
their caps and turbans, their bare legs and broad sandals, there seem to be evoking all Eastern
traditions and history of two proscribed races. Those men, with their floating mantles as shrouds,
ghosts appear Africa del mondo, or walking corpses of generations that transmitted the world
the deposit of Christian civilization. I could not look without deep sadness no Israelite or
moro of that people to Gibraltar. I do not know if my inclination towards all the weak and outcast
I ruled the world, but felt more sympathy for Jews, Italians and Moors by same English and Spanish.

And
HOWEVER, there is nothing that highlights as much as the rough rock of Gibraltar's glory relative
free hospital institutions and customs of the English people. In London, where so many thousands
of outcasts who live under it under a noble adopted country, everything goes unnoticed because the
immensity of this metropolis hides the details. Is Gibraltar is revealed more liberal genius, commercial,
cosmopolitan and tolerant of people English. Spanish and Italian, Jewish and Moorish, English
and any foreign country, are equally free, they tolerate in their
religion and their customs and live fraternally.

Gibraltar seemed a kind of model (though imperfect) of that unit in the right and progress,
which tends to humanity, driven by the feeling of love and justice which is the true ideal of civilization.
Rock that hospital, which admits all races and religions, positioned between Catholic Spain
- their intolerant and fanatical Papal institutions - and Mohammedan Africa - intolerant and
fanatical resentment and for their backwardness in civilization, - this rock, I say, I found there,
battered by waves balancing between two worlds enemies, as an ark of salvation that was carrying
the redemptive idea of ​​freedom, law and fraternity!

If I were Spanish, perhaps I would look to float despite the British flag on the rock of Gibraltar:
patriotism (which is often a fallacy), I would think so. But, son the New World, impartial between
the two powers and a friend of justice and progress, bless today (everything is relative)
dominance of England in Gibraltar. She is the assurance free trade in the Mediterranean, is
the link between European civilization and African semi-barbarism, is a promise of progress, and
a severe and eloquent teaching for nations still reject the advice of a policy of tolerance
and fairness.

All these interests would be compromised the day return to rule Gibraltar Spain, - Spain,
where even in 1859, while carrying the war against Morocco name of civilization, was sentenced
to nine years in prison to a citizen of England Cadiz for selling the Bible (the book of God!) British
edition ....

What makes Gibraltar trade is very considerable, that place is not just a stopover point important
for navigation between the Mediterranean and the Atlantic, but the general deposit of the changes
you make Western Europe the empire of Morocco. Furthermore, it is an element clandestine trade
with Spain, very considerable. Spain, like everyone who sins is the results of their own faults
punishment and backlash from them. Its selfish fiscal or economic institutions, has been surrounded
by all the constraints typical of a system rigorous prohibitions,
regulations and differential duties, and that it is expensive.

Smuggling is huge, everywhere - the same thing for its coastline, which borders France and Portugal;
but nowhere is so visible proportions as in Gibraltar. The value of changes that take place
there are so considerable, that in recent years did not export Gibraltar to Europe and Africa less
than 22,000,000 of hard dollars or 440 million reais of fleece.

Apart from large warehouses, nothing more interesting than the shops of Gibraltar full of fabrics,
artifacts and more heterogeneous, coming from very different countries. What is most striking is the
set of articles of Moroccan industry, so funny and original and colorful. The beautiful and polished
morocco, large cotton and silk shawls, bright colors on white, or mixed, the thousand whims
Drawing and red embroidery on wool rugs, cushions and sandals, the beautiful turbans the infinity
of jewels and ornaments, feathers, coral beads, filigree, cigarette embroidered with gold and
silver thread, and a thousand objects in the hand, - all that arouses
curiosity because of its peculiarities, its vivid colors and vagaries
of form, which gives an idea of style industry in Morocco and neighboring
countries.

No less curious are the small different application objects are made with marble and granite in Gibraltar,
Ronda, Tangier and elsewhere to have their Spendius in the square of universal change.

When we walked the streets of Gibraltar and visited many stores, we city ​​of the vast enclosure
of the citadel. Without careful to observe very carefully great fortresses that stand out everywhere
in the maze, we crossed the first gardens climbing to the heights of rock, through immense pyramids
patios bullets, bombs and grenades, and endless rows of great guns. That swarm of projectiles and
instruments of death, in the midst of artificial vegetables, so many flowers and perfumes, and
fruit trees, and jumping springs, and rustic bridges and statues overwhelmed and arches and
walls of vines and branches, - those strengths and frigates threatening in the presence of a
beautiful bay and under a sky of eastern admirable beauty, the silence betrayer of so many
mouths of iron and bronze on the walls open and ready to vomit heat
waves over the green waves of the Gulf - while all was bustle city
animation and commercial matters - everything was a set of contrasts
to reflect with sadness or laugh at the follies of the world.

Still be many years before the canyon, climbing swagger about his carriage, no longer an argument,
but will have to wait for a day in a commercial plaza and a strait have no other defense that
the interest progress and the notion of justice.

The picture that dominates the upper elevations of Gibraltar is unmatched, as picture sea. With
the aid of a telescope we could see clearly but distant objects, comprising lovely set. Fire
up the sky and brown granite peaks of majesty awesome. The gorgeous gardens and Vastis around, crossed
the street in a zig-zag, which go prancing to the top, as well flush the cars up and down easily
any, and all the room bristled with fortifications, granitic rocks, palaces and beautiful villas,
statues of English characters and big beautiful trees. In the background, the Gulf on fire
by the African sun, the coast of Algeciras and San Roque, with its graceful populations, Isla
Verde with its hospital, the Spanish forts and mountain belt closing the south-western horizon.
Finally, south and south-eastern Mediterranean, the mountains and African coasts, and after
the "tip of Africa ', facing the Rock of Gibraltar, Ceuta at the bottom of the small gulf,
resembling a nest of seagulls, and far beyond, as a white dot, the port and the city of Tangier,
showing loosely behind a veil of gauze fiery reverberations produced
by inflamed air.

That picture is which are never forgotten. To describe mass, I think I'm seeing, with the eye inflamed
by the devouring sun, after eight months since I visited Gibraltar.

* * * * *

At five in the afternoon we weighed anchor steam by heading towards Cadiz. Shortly thereafter, to
return the tip of Algeciras, the most advanced of Spain in the Mediterranean, we lost view of
the gulf and the Rock of Gibraltar. We went almost the Strait and we began to see tireless struggle
among the great waves of the ocean and the tiny waves of the Mediterranean, - the first slow,
formidable, immense, filling the channel with majesty, - the other restless fast, rolling on the
great plains liquid and wanting to leave the wide space. Seemed countless herds of sheep determined
to climb over hills and mountains formidable.

The shadows of night fell as we passed in front of Tangier and Tarifa, so close the second that
almost touch the rock or island of the same name, linked by a very narrow isthmus to the port.
Rate Today is but a debris, a memory. The population lies sad and solitary at the foot of
a hill, and the historic forts are worthless.

       But that group stones have a huge moral merit.

As I gazed I seemed to see the shadow on the battlements sublime de Guzman el Bueno, dominating
the vague shadows of the night, at arm's length showing Africa, and remembering that the supreme
self-sacrifice is a virtue for that there should be neither time nor posterity ....

* * * * *

CHAPTER V.

* * * * *

THE BAY OF CADIZ.

It was six o'clock when fondeábamos front of Cadiz, close to the center of the bay and it was
necessary to wait for two hours until the board permission to land. Customs should not be
waking up till eight o'clock, when records began luggage and scrutiny
of passports, without exception of person.

       Spanish is abroad in Spain under Customs thresholds, which do not
respect national inquisitorial nails or address, digging the same
baggage that comes from China or of the New World, that which comes
ride in any Spanish city.

       

A magnificent sun silvered the waves of the bay and illuminates the
towers, fortresses and Cadiz large buildings, resulting in the domes
and huge masses of masonry more vivid reflections.

The show was wonderfully beautiful, as was interesting movement port, and encouraged by the numerous
groups of marine, porters, merchants street, curious unemployed, etc., but because of the abundance
of vessels anchored in the bay and small boats and short feluccas navigation. At ten o'clock we leave
safely Customs and went to settle in the beautiful hotel "Trade." We eager to climb to one of
the highest towers of the city to cover the view the whole picture, and although the sun scorched
their tongues of fire on the island of Leon, did not want to wait for later. One of the towers
of the Cathedral 'old' (building something spacious, but in bad taste
and was not worth a thorough review), we served as a lookout.

The scene was entirely different from what we had offered the Bay of Algeciras. In the Bay of Cadiz
on the horizon had no limits, and had everything that the eye could behold a wonderful set of
the immense majesty, grace and vitality in the details and great memories in the varied appearance
of the landscape. Nothing is more curious and exceptional the topography of the island of Leon
and the peninsular tip that faces to form bay. Cadiz is like a rock in the center of a vast plain,
on the east the plain solid, the vast coast of southern Andalusia, fully flat, extending to
Guadalquivir on one side and the other into the far buttresses round, following the direction
of Medina; - west, south and north-western deserts of the Atlantic full of light and solemnity.

The
island of Leon is the form of a military hat and a thick canopy of
points much more often than another.

 That was little enough for
her to do. Ah, well," he sighed, putting it away from him.

As he turned into the tree-lined avenue near the gate, a slender young woman in a green and
white gown arose from a seat in the shade and stepped a pace forward, opening her parasol quite
leisurely as he quickened his steps. His eyes gleamed with the sudden rush of joy that filled
his whole being. She stood there, waiting for him, under the trees. There was an expression
in her face that he had never seen there before. She was smiling, it is true, but there was
something like defiance--yes, it was the set, strained smile of resolution that greeted his
eager exclamation. Her eyes gleamed brightly and she was breathing as one who has run swiftly.

"You are determined to go down there among those men?" she demanded, the smile suddenly giving
way to a look of disapproval. She ignored his hand.

"Certainly," he said, after the moment of bewilderment. "Why not? I--I thought you had made
up your mind to let me go without a--a word for good luck." She found great difficulty in meeting
the wistful look in his eyes. "You are good to come down here to say good-bye--and howdy do,
for that matter. We're almost strangers again."

"I did not come down to say good-bye," she said, her lips trembling ever so slightly.

"I don't understand," he said.

"I am going with you into the town--as a witness," she said, and her face went pale at the
thought of it. He drew back in amazement, staring at her as though he had not heard aright.

"Genevra," he cried, "you--you would do that?"

"Why not, Mr. Chase?" She tried to speak calmly, but she was trembling. After all, she was
a slender, helpless girl--not an Amazon! "I saw and heard everything. They won't believe you
unsupported. They won't harm me. They will treat me as they treat you. I have as much right
to be heard against him as you. If I swear to them that what you say is true they----"

Her hand was on his arm now, trembling, eager, yet charged with fear at the prospect ahead
of her. He clasped the little hand in his and quickly lifted it to his lips.

"I'm happy again," he cried. "It's all right with me now." She withdrew her hand on the instant.

"No, no! It isn't that," she said, her eyes narrowing. "Don't misinterpret my coming here to
say that I will go. It isn't because--no, it isn't that!"

He hesitated an instant, looking deep into the bewildered eyes that met his with all the honesty
that dwelt in her soul. He saw that she trusted him to be fair with her.

"I was unhappy because you had forsaken me," he said gently. "You are brave--you are wonderful!
But I can't take you down there. I know what will happen if they find him guilty. Good-bye,
dear one. I'll come back--surely I'll come back. Thank you for sending me away happy."

"Won't you let me go with you?" she asked, after a long, penetrating look into his eyes.

"I would not take you among them for all the world. You forget. Neither of us would come back."

"Neither of us?" she said slowly.

"I wouldn't come back without you," he said quietly, earnestly. She understood. "Good-bye!
Don't worry about me. I am in no danger."

"Good-bye," she said, the princess once more. "I shall pray for you--with all my soul." She
gave him her hand. It was cold and lifeless. He pressed it warmly and went quickly away, leaving
her standing there in the still shade of the satinwoods, looking after him with eyes that grew
wider and wider with the tears that welled up from behind.

Hours went by--slow, tortuous hours in which the souls of those who watched and waited for
his return were tried to the utmost. A restless, uncanny feeling prevailed: as if they were
prisoners waiting in dead silence for the sickening news that the trap on the scaffold had
been dropped with all that was living of a fellow-cellmate, whom they had known and pitied
for weeks.

Once there came to the ears of the watchers on the mountainside the sound of distant shouts,
later, the brief rattle of firearms. The blood of every one turned cold with, apprehension;
every voice was stilled, every eye wide with dread. Neenah screamed as she fled across the
terrace toward the drawbridge, where Selim stood as motionless as a statue.

Luncheon-time passed, and again, as if drawn by a magnet, the entire household made its way
to the front of the château.

At last Selim uttered a shout of joy. He forgot the deference due his betters and unceremoniously
dashed off toward the gates, followed by Neenah, who seemed possessed of wings.

Chase was returning!

They saw him coming up the drive, his hat in his hand, his white umbrella raised above his
head. He drew nearer, sauntering as carelessly as if nothing unusual lay behind him in the
morning hours. The eager, joyous watchers saw him greet Selim and his fluttering wife; they
saw Selim fall upon his knees, and they felt the tears rushing to their own eyes.

"Hurray!" shouted little Mr. Saunders in his excitement. Bowles and the three clerks joined
him in the exhibition. Then the Persians and the Turks and the Arabs began to chatter; the
servants, always cold and morose, revealed signs of unusual emotion; the white people laughed
as if suddenly delivered from extreme pain. The Princess was conscious of the fact that at
least five or six pairs of eyes were watching her face. She closed her lips and compelled her
eyelids to obey the dictates of a resentful heart: she lowered them until they gave one the
impression of indolent curiosity, even indifference. All the while, her incomprehensible heart
was thumping with a rapture that knew no allegiance to royal conventions.

A few minutes later he was among them, listening with his cool, half-satirical smile to their
protestations of joy and relief, assailed by more questions than he could well answer in a
day, his every expression a protest against their contention that he had done a brave and wonderful
thing.

"Nonsense," he said in his most deprecating voice, taking a seat beside the Princess on the
railing and fanning himself lazily with his hat to the mortification of his body-servant, who
waved a huge palm leaf in vigorous adulation. "It was nothing. Just being a witness, that's
all. You'll find how easy it is when you get back to London and have to testify in the Skaggs
will contest. Tell the truth, that's all." The Princess was now looking at his brown face with
eyes over which she had lost control. "Oh, by the by," he said, as if struck by a sudden thought.
He turned toward the shady court below, where the eager refugees from Aratat were congregated.
A deep, almost sepulchral tone came into his voice as he addressed himself to the veiled wives
of Jacob von Blitz. "It is my painful duty to announce to the Mesdames von Blitz that they
are widows."

There was a dead silence. The three women stared up at him, uncomprehending.

"Yes," he went on solemnly, "Jacob is no more. He was found guilty by his judges and executed
with commendable haste and precision. I will say this for your lamented husband: he met his
fate like a man and a German--without a quiver. He took his medicine bravely--twelve leaden
pills administered by as many skilful surgeons. It is perhaps just as well for you that you
are widows. If he had lived long enough he would have made a widower of himself." The three
wives of Von Blitz hugged themselves and cried out in their joy! "But it is yet too early to
congratulate yourselves on your freedom. Rasula has promised to kill all of us, whether we
deserve it or not, so I daresay we'd better postpone the celebration until we're entirely out
of the woods."

"They shot him?" demanded Deppingham, when he had finished.

"Admirably. By Jove, those fellows can shoot! They accepted my word against his--which is most
gratifying to my pride. One other man testified against him--a chap who saw him with the Boers
not ten minutes before the attempt was made to rob the vaults. Rasula appeared as counsel for
the defence. Merely a matter of form. He knew that he was guilty. There was no talk of a new
trial; no appeal to the supreme court, Britt; no expense to the community."

He was as unconcerned about it as if discussing the most trivial happening of the day. Five
ancient men had sat with the venerable Cadi as judges in the market-place. There were no frills,
no disputes, no summing up of the case by state or defendant. The judges weighed the evidence;
they used their own judgment as to the law and the penalty. They found him guilty. Von Blitz
lived not ten minutes after sentence was passed.

"As to their intentions toward us," said Chase, "they are firm in their determination that
no one shall leave the château alive. Rasula was quite frank with me. He is a cool devil. He
calmly notified me that we will all be dead inside of two weeks. No ships will put in here
so long as the plague exists. It has been cleverly managed. I asked him how we were to die
and he smiled as though he was holding something back as a surprise for us. He came as near
to laughing as I've ever seen him when I asked him if he'd forgotten my warships. 'Why don't
you have them here?' he asked. 'We're not ready,' said I. 'The six months are not up for nine
days yet.' 'No one will come ashore for you,' he said pointedly. I told him that he was making
a great mistake in the attitude he was taking toward the heirs, but he coolly informed me that
it was best to eradicate all danger of the plague by destroying the germs, so to speak. He
agreed with me that you have no chance in the courts, but maintains that you'll keep up the
fight as long as you live, so you might just as well die to suit his convenience. I also made
the interesting discovery that suits have already been brought in England to break the will
on the grounds of insanity."

"But what good will that do us if we are to die here?" exclaimed Bobby Browne.

"None whatsoever," said Chase calmly. "You must admit, however, that you exhibited signs of
hereditary insanity by coming here in the first place. I'm beginning to believe that there's
a streak of it in my family, too."

"And you--you saw him killed?" asked the Princess in an awed voice, low and full of horror.

"Yes. I could not avoid it."

"They killed him on your--on your--" she could not complete the sentence, but shuddered expressively.

"Yes. He deserved death, Princess. I am more or less like the Moslem in one respect. I might
excuse a thief or a murderer, but I have no pity for a traitor."

"You saw him killed," she said in the same awed voice, involuntarily drawing away from him.

"Yes," he said, "and you would have seen him killed, too, if you had gone down with me to appear
against him."

She looked up quickly and then thanked him, almost in a whisper.

CHAPTER XXVIII

CENTURIES TO FORGET

"My lord," said Saunders the next day, appearing before his lordship after an agitated hour
of preparation, "it's come to a point where something's got to be done." He got that far and
then turned quite purple; his collar seemed to be choking him.

"Quite right, Saunders," said Deppingham, replacing his eyeglass nervously, "but who's going
to do it and what is there to be done?"

"I'm--er--afraid you don't quite understand, sir," mumbled the little solicitor, glancing uneasily
over his shoulder. "If what Mr. Chase says is true, we've got a precious short time to live.
Well, we've--we've concluded to get all we can out of the time that's left, my lord."

"I see," said the other, but he did not see.

"So I've come to ask if it will be all right with you and her ladyship, sir. We don't want
to do anything that would seem forward and out of place, sir."

"It's very considerate of you, Saunders; but what the devil are you talking about?"

"Haven't you heard, sir?"

"That we are to die? Certainly."

"That's not all, sir. Miss--Miss Pelham and I have decided to get--er--get married before it
is too late."

Deppingham stared hard for a moment and then grinned broadly.

"You mean, before you die?"

"That's it exactly, my lord. Haw, haw! It would be a bit late, wouldn't it, if we waited till
afterward? Haw, haw! Splendid! But seriously, my lord, we've talked it all over and it strikes
us both as a very clever thing to do. We had intended to wait till we got to London, but that
seems quite out of the question now. Unless we do it up pretty sharp, sir, we are likely to
miss it altogether. So I have come to ask if you think it will interfere with your arrangements
if--if we should be married to-night."

"I'm sure, Saunders, that it won't discommode me in the least," said his lordship genially.
"By all means, Saunders, let it be to-night, for to-morrow we may die."

"Will you kindly speak to her ladyship, sir?"

"Gladly. And I'll take it as an honour if you will permit me to give away the bride."

"Thank you, my lord," cried Saunders, his face beaming. His lordship shook hands with him,
whereupon his cup of happiness overflowed, notwithstanding the fact that his honeymoon was
likely to be of scarcely any duration whatsoever. "I've already engaged Mr. Bowles, sir, for
half past eight, and also the banquet hall, sir," he said, with his frank assurance.

"And I'll be happy, Saunders, to see to the wedding supper and the rice," said his lordship.
"Have you decided where you will go on your wedding journey?"

"Yes, sir," said Saunders seriously, "God helping us, we'll go to England."

The wedding took place that night in the little chapel. It was not an imposing celebration;
neither was it attended by the gladsome revelry that usually marks the nuptial event, no matter
how humble. I live a hundred leagues
from Persepolis, I say it has declared war, and I leave the point my family, and, as usual,
I will seek their fortune or death, because I have nothing to do. ? And your comrades, he said
Babuca, there are not more educated than you? No, 'said the officer, only our main Satraps
are those who know about it Fixo We cut their throats.

Introduxo Babuca was astonished with the generals, and hinted at its familiarity. At last he said
to one: The cause of the war twenty years has been plaguing Asia, comes originally a contest
of a eunuch in one of the wives of the great king of Persia, with an office the great king of
the Indies. We tried a right which was produced with a short difference triesimo Darice, and as both
the prime minister of India as the sustained with dignity nuestio the rights of their respective
love, ignited the minds, and went out to each side bell a million soldiers. Each year is necessary
to recruit these armies with four hundred thousand men. Grow deaths, fires, logging ruins,
suffering the universe, and follows the enemy. Our minister and the Indian protest very frequeencia
that moves them nothing but the happiness of the human lineage, and every protest a city is
destroyed, or ravage some provinces.

Having the other day spread the word that was going to make peace, gave the Indian general and
Persian battle all haste, which was bloody. Babuca saw all the errors and all the abominations
that were committed, and was witness to the machinations of the main satraps, who made quanto
was in his hand so that lost its general officers saw killed by his own troops, he saw soldiers
who had killed their comrades dying, by taking away some bloody rags, broken and covered in
filth, I enter the hospitals where the wounded had, perished almost all the inhuman neglect
of those who paid their weight in gold the king of Persia for relief. ? Are men these, exclaiming
Babuca, or are beasts? Ha, well I see that must be destroyed Persepolis.

Concerned with this idea way to the Indian camp, where, according to what he had predicted,
received him with much entertainment as that of the Persians, and which witnessed the same excesses
that had filled him with horror. Ha, ha, he said to himself, if he wants the angel Ituriel exterminate
the Persians, also have to exterminate the Indians the angel of the Indies. Having been informed
of quanto then more finely in both armies had happened, he knew actions magnanimous, generous
and humane, which astonished and enthralled him. Unexplained deaths, exclaimed,? as you can gather
so much elevation so clumsily and with so many virtues crime?

Declarose peace soon, and the leaders of both armies, which had only its interest actually shed
the blood of so many fellow beings, they went to seek his court award respectively, since none
had won the victory. Peace was celebrated in public writings announcing the kingdom of virtue
and happiness on earth. Thank God, he said Babuca; Persepolis will be the abode of the purest innocence,
and will not be destroyed, as they wanted damn those geniuses without further delay we see this
capital of Asia.

I reach this vast city by the old entrance, still mired in barbarism, and that inspired disgust
for his rough disarray. I felt all this portion of the time people who had built, that we must
confess, is qual regardless of the effort to exalt the former at
the expense of modern, that in all things the first tests are always
rough.

Then he put Babuca gentio a crowd of more pork quanto compound and more ugly both sexes can be
found, the qual entered all haste in a dark and gloomy room. The buzz continued, the movement felt,
and the money that some people in a dish casting, let him know I was in a public market, but when
he saw that many wives kneels, apparently looking at what they had in front, and indeed men aside,
I perceive that he was in a temple. Rough voices, Subalpine, out of tune and bargain they
made in the vault poorly articulated sounds resonate, like the voice of cerdudos animals in the
plains of La Mancha respond to curved and sharp instrument the flame. Tapabar ears, but then
had to cover his eyes and nostrils, when he saw entered into the temple a few uncouth with
shovels and hoes. They raised such a large stone threw a right hand and left hand land that gave
off a stench intolerable, put after a death in the hole they had made, and returned to lay the stone.
iCon burying these people, exclaimed Babuca, their dead in the same places where they worship
the divinity! icon that are paved with corpses their temples! I no longer fear the pestilential
ailments that afflict so frequeencia Persepolis, is capable of poisoning around the globe terraqueeo
rot so many dead and many live pressed together in one place. IHA, which is Persepolis dirty
people! Doubtless the angels want to destroy, to build another city more beautiful, and populated
with people more neat, and what better chant: Providence know what you do, do not get into take
his idea.

And the sun was approaching the middle of his career, and had Babuca to go to eat at the other
end Village, home of a lady who had given her husband a letter of recommendation that was an
officer in the army. He traveled thousands upon thousands of streets in Persepolis, saw other
temples well decorated, where more educated people attended, and where they heard a harmonica
music, repair public sources, although they made wonderful effect defective, was fresh and pleasant
Street trees, gardens, where we breathed the most delicious smells, and gathered Vian plants
of the most remote villages. Marveled to see magnificent bridges, as they were intended to
pass a stream without getting your feet wet wading is the four-fifths anus; step by wide streets
and magnificent, filled with palaces on either sidewalk, and entered Finally the lady's house with
a society of decent people waiting for him to eat. Was your home clean and well decorated, the
lady was a girl, beautiful, discreet and courteous, and society friendly, and it said Babuca one
another: no doubt he had lost the trial Ituriel angel, when wanted to destroy a city so fulfilled.
But very soon warned that the lady, who at first had asked him for his loving new husband, to
speak more lovingly food a boy wizard. Then he saw a judge before his own wife to a thousand
compliments to a widow, the qual with one hand clasped the neck of the magistrate, and gave the
other a young man very nice and modest. The first one up from the table was the wife of the
magistrate, is in a locked cabinet away to confer with his spiritual director, eloqueentisimo man, that
such power had to reason with her, he came back embarrassed face, wet eyes, his voice tremulous
and faltering steps.

Babuca then started to the apprehension of that was right Ituriel genius. With the dowry had
Granger confidence, he knew the secrets that very day the lady, will fio their qual affection
to the boy wizard, ensure that all houses would find the same Persepolis that had been hers.
Babuca inferred that such a society could not last, that all the houses were to be struck by
jealousy, revenge and feuds, which constantly had to shed tears and blood that inevitably had
to kill their husbands to processions their wives, or of being killed by them finally to very
well destroy Ituriel once an abandoned village to horrendous disorders.

After

eating was one of the most magnificent temples of the city, and sat in the middle a crowd of
both men and women who had gone there to kill time. Climbed a magician to a high machine and
pondered long about vice and virtue, and having divided in several parts so it was not necessary
to divide, test methods things clearer, taught what he knew everyone, no reason is exalted,
and came out sweating and breathless. Then people awoke, and believed that he had attended
an instruction. Babuca said: "This quanto good man has done has been for the hell of two or three
hundred citizens own, but his intention was good, and this is no reason to destroy Persepolis.

Brought
him, emerging from this gathering, to see a public holiday that was
celebrated every day of the year in a kind of basilica, whose inner
part via a palace.

Were so beautiful spectacle most beautiful women citizens of Persepolis, and the main Satraps
arranged in order, at first believed Babuca that came down to this party. In brief dexaron be seen
in the vestibule of the palace two or three people who looked like kings and queens; their language
was very different from the fashionable to the masses, and had rhythm, harmony and sublimity.
No one is sleeping, we all listened in silence high, and if interrupted him, was to give tests
of general admiration and affection, and with senses so alive and well spoken terms the obligations
of the kings, love of virtue, and the risks of the passions, that drew tears to Babuca: who no
doubt were the preachers of those rule heroes and heroines and those kings and queens who had
just heard, and even made purpose of persuading Ituriel that came to listen, some of which
show similar you reconcile with Persepolis forever.

After the party, wanted to visit the queen at the main palace was beautiful announced and unblemished
moral sublime.

Introduxeran had him at her majesty, and I took a bad ladder to the second floor, where am
in a room poorly adorned and furnished a poorly dressed woman, that noble and pathetic gesture,
he said: "My job gives me no to live, one of the princes who have seen has made me a child: I
am ready to be delivered: no I have money, and without money every birth is a miscarriage.
Darics Babuca gave him a hundred gold, saying: If there were worse things in the city, Ituriel
had little reason to be so angry.

Was there to spend the afternoon at the shops of merchants of magnificence superfluous. Brought
him an intelligent sugeto who had befriended him, bought what I find to their liking, and many
courtesies sold it much more expensive than it was worth. Quando had returned home, let him
see his friend that he had been swindled, and pointed Babuca memory in his book the name the
merchant, for the day of the punishment of the city not take Ituriel forgotten. While writing,
knocked on the door and entered the merchant who brought him to his pocket Babuca forsaken had
been forgotten on the counter. ? As possible, he said Babuca, so that you may be generous and
scrupulous, after having had face to sell your buxerias four much more than they're worth?
There throughout the city, he answered the merchant, merchant none something known, had not come
to bring the pocket, but I have said Quando I I sold in my store that have bought the quadruple
in value, you've been deceived, because I've sold ten times more than what it is worth, and this
is so true that if within one month you get rid of it you want, will not give or tithe, and
there is more thing however as to reason, because as the whim of men that gives value to these
trifles, that same feeds craving hundred workers who use me and my house gives me a good start,
a good car, and good horses. This craving is the one who gives life to the industry, and keeps
the fine taste circulation and abundance. The nations neighboring towns sell them much more expensive
than you the same trifles, and thus serve to benefit the empire. Paros thoughtful Babuca a, time,
and then delete it from his book.

Not knowing what to think of Persepolis, was determined to see wizards and writers, flattering
himself that such a pardon would reach all the rest of the people, because some apply to the
wisdom, and religion of others. The next morning was to visit a school for witches, and he
confessed that he was Archimandrite three hundred thousand crowns for having taken a vow of
poverty, and exercies a vast jurisdiction under another vote humility. That said, I leave to
Babuca in the hands of a magician's apprentice, so gave her.

Ensenabale that the beauties of this house of penance, when the voice spread who brought commission
for reform. Memorials given point each, that all essentially came to say Conservadnos us and remove
all others. If credit was their own apologies, all these congregations were necessary, if attended
to their mutual charges, all deserved to be destroyed. Babuca Pasmabase that there is none
that by building the universe, did not want to be the referee. Then a man Presentosele I was
semi-magician, qual said to him: The great work is going to comply, and has returned to Zerdust
earth: therefore I request that you ampareis against the Grand Lama. ? With that against the pontiff
monarch replied Babuca, which lies in Tibet? - against the same .--? For what? you make him
war, and alistais against an army? - not that, but says that man is free, and we do not believe: we
write against the tomes do not read, and we've heard hardly mind, because we just condemn, as an
owner who sends remove caterpillars from their garden. Babuca Asombrose the folly of men who
profess the wisdom, the tangle of that had renounced the world, lofty ambition and greed of those
who preached humility and disinterest, and gathered that left over good reasons to Ituriel
to destroy all this race.

He retired to his home, sent to buy her new books to calm his anger, and bade eat several writers
for recreation. Reached more than double what had been called as Wasps go to honey. They did not
ford these gorreros to speak and swallow, and praised two classes of men, the dead and their
own, but never to their peers, except the householder. If you said one is a saying acute baxaban
others eyes and bit his tongue feeling of not including the authors. Were less cautious than mages
because they aspired his ambition at such high objects, asking each servant's employment and
reputation of a great man. They began to insults in his face, that they contained sharp epigrams.
Habiaseles Translucent some of the commission of Babuca, and one voice descends beg him to exterminate
an author who had not given enough praise, another asked what the loss of a citizen who in his
plays never laughed, and another the extinction of the academy, because they never had been get
to be your guy. Finished eating, they went away all because in this whole bunch there was two that
might suffer, or talked more than in the homes of the rich than your table guests. Babuca believed
that very little was lost with all this Landre perish in the general destruction.

Just pulled away from them, began to read some books that had just been published, and warned
them the character of his guests. Indignaronle most of all the newsletters of slander, and files
in poor taste dictated by envy, hunger and stupidity, vile satires that respect and tear buytres
pigeons; novels lack of imagination, where thousand portraits are ideal sugetos their authors do
not know. Tyre fire these detestable writings, and came home that afternoon to go for walks.
A literary Presentaronle old man who had not been to increase the number of blobs. Dodging the crowd,
knew the men, wise use of them, and explained to sanity. Spake Babuca with feeling of quanto had
seen and read. Despicable things you have read, The lawyer told him sane, but at all times
and in every country is very common evil, and very rare good. You have been hosting at your
table to the stool of pedantry, because in all profession that is always presented with more chutzpah
is the least deserving out of the square. They live with each other, calmer and in retirement,
the truly wise, and still no shortage of books and authors are entitled to your attention. While
he was talking, I get another writer, and his arguments were so instructive and pleasant,
so far superior to concerns, and so in accordance with virtue, who confessed that he had never
heard Babuca such thing. Men are these, he said to himself, who will not dare to do evil angel
Ituriel, unless it is very ruthless.

No less anger kept the rest of the nation, since it had reconciled
with the literati.

You are a foreigner, he said to the wise man who spoke, and it will show of crowd abuse, while
you hide the well hidden, and that often these same abuses it. He knew then that there was among
many who were not writers envious and even among some who were virtuous wizards. Finally understood
that these large bodies clashes with its apparently preparing common ruin, were in fact beneficial
foundations; each association of wizards was a brake on his rivals, for if sometimes these differed
from opinion, all teach the same morals, who taught the people and subject to the laws, such Zelan the
preceptors that the children at home, while the master Zela them. Treatment many, and found
among them heavenly souls, and knew that among those same crazy they wanted to bring war to the Grand
Lama, had great men. I suspect they could after same thing Persepolis customs of their buildings,
which had seemed a worthy of pity, and others had overwhelmed in astonishment.

One day he said to the writer: Now I know that the Magi, which had been so dangerous, can be very
helpful, especially Quando a prudent government that hinders grange
Influx left:? but profits may result from the colossal wealth of the
contractors and agents of the Treasury?

That same day saw the opulence of these, which had so disgusted, sometimes produces much fruit,
because having the sovereign needed money, I find in one hour through him as through regular
channels in six months had not found, and conventional that these brown clouds, fed with the dew of
the earth, I returned in rain what they received them: besides that the children of these new men,
usually more well educated than those of the oldest families, worth more than these, because having
a father a good calculator does not remove a judge who is right, brave soldier, and skilled statesman.

Slowly
forgive Babuca greed of the settlement, which in reality is neither more nor less greedy than
the others, and is indispensable; apologized to dispel his madness flow for war, that war was
the source of many exploits, and forgave the jealousy of writers, among whom were sugetos illustrating
the world is reconciled with ambitious magicians and stagehands,
who gathered with small vices great virtues, since you were not unscrupulous,
especially on wooing the ladies, and the horrendous consequeencias
that inevitably had to produce, and filled him with horror and fright.

Wanting to examine all statements made to bring him home from a minister, and on the way would
see a woman shaking her husband murdered by his presence. I get to third base of the statesman,
and spent two hours waiting for Dixer he was there, and other two after they had said, by this
time very firm purpose to recommend the minister and his insolent anger of the angel concierges
Ituriel

.
 Before them lay the dark, treeless
valley; almost directly below them, not fifty yards away, clustered the group of disputing
islanders, a dozen men in all, with half as many flaring torches.

They had halted in the roadway at the point where a sharp defile through the rocks opened a
way down into the valley. Like snakes the pursuers wriggled their way to a point just above
the small basin in which the party was congregated.

A great throb of exultation leaped up from their hearts, In plain view, at the side of the
road, were the two persons for whom they were searching.

"God, luck is with us," whispered Chase unconsciously.

Lady Agnes, dishevelled, her dress half stripped from her person, was seated upon a great boulder,
staring hopelessly, lifelessly at the crowd of men in the roadway. Beside her stood a tall
islander, watching her and at the same time listening eagerly to the dispute that went on between
his fellows. She was not bound; her hands and feet and lips were free. The glow from the torches
held by gesticulating hands fell upon her tired, frightened face. Deppingham groaned aloud
as he looked down upon the wretched, hopeless woman that he loved and had come out to die for.

Bobby Browne was standing near by. His hands were tightly bound behind his back. His face was
blood-covered and the upper part of his body was almost bare, evidence of the struggle he had
made against overwhelming odds. He was staring at the ground, his head and shoulders drooping
in utter dejection.

The cause of the slow progress made by the attacking party was also apparent after a moment's
survey of the situation. Three of the treasure chests were standing beside the road, affording
seats for as many weary carriers. It was all quite plain to Chase. Rasula and his men had chanced
upon the two white people during one of their trips to the cave for the purpose of removing
the chests. Moreover, it was reasonable to assume that this lot of chests represented the last
of those stored away by Von Blitz. The others had been borne away by detachments of men who
left the cave before the discovery and capture of the heirs.

Rasula was haranguing the crowd of men in the road. The hidden listeners could hear and understand
every word he uttered.

"It is the only way," he was shouting angrily. "We cannot take them into the town to-night--maybe
not for two or three days. Some there are in Aratat who would end their lives before sunrise.
I say to you that we cannot put them to death until we are sure that the others have no chance
to escape to England. I am a lawyer. I know what it would mean if the story got to the ears
of the government. We have them safely in our hands. The others will soon die. Then--then there
can be no mistake! They must be taken to the mines and kept there until I have explained everything
to the people. Part of us shall conduct them to the lower mill and the rest of us go on to
the bank with these chests of gold." In the end, after much grumbling and fierce quarreling,
in which the prisoners took little or no interest, the band was divided into two parts. Rasula
and six of the sturdiest men prepared to continue the journey to Aratat, transporting the chests.
Five sullen, resentful fellows moved over beside the captives and threw themselves down upon
the grassy sward, lighting their cigarettes with all the philosophical indifference of men
who regard themselves as put upon by others at a time when there is no alternative.

"We will wait here till day comes," growled one of them defiantly. "Why should we risk our
necks going down the pass to-night? It is one o'clock. The sun will be here in three hours. Go on!"

"As you like, Abou Dal," said Rasula, shrugging his pinched shoulders. "I shall come to the
mill at six o'clock." Turning to the prisoners, he bowed low and said, with a soft laugh: "Adios,
my lady, and you, most noble sir. May your dreams be pleasant ones. Dream that you are wedded
and have come into the wealth of Japat, but spare none of your dream to the husband and wife,
who are lying awake and weeping for the foolish ones who would go searching for the forbidden
fruit Folly is a hard road to travel and it leads to the graveyard of fools. Adios!"

Lady Agnes bent over and dropped her face into her hands. She was trembling convulsively. Browne
did not show the slightest sign that he had heard the galling words.

At a single sharp command, the six men picked up the three chests and moved off rapidly down
the road Rasula striding ahead with the flaring torch.

They were barely out of sight beyond the turn in the hill when Deppingham moved as though impulse
was driving him into immediate attack upon the guards who were left behind with the unhappy
prisoners. Chase laid a restraining hand upon his arm.

"Wait! Plenty of time. Wait an hour. Don't spoil everything. We'll save them sure," he breathed
in the other's ear. Deppingham's groan was almost loud enough to have been heard above the
rustling leaves and the collective maledictions of the disgusted islanders.

The minutes slipped by with excruciating slowness The wakeful eyes of the three watchers missed
nothing that took place in the little grass-grown niche below them They could have sprung almost
into the centre of the group from the position they occupied. Utterly unconscious of the surveillance,
the islanders gradually sunk into a morose, stupid silence. If the watchers hoped that they
might go to sleep they were to be disappointed Two of the men sat with their backs to the rocks,
their rifles across their knees. The others sprawled lazily upon the soft grass. Two torches,
stuck in the earth, threw a weird light over the scene.

Bobby Browne was now lying with his shoulder against a fallen tree-trunk, staring with unswerving
gaze at the woman across the way. She was looking off into the night, steadfastly refusing
to glance in his direction. For fully half an hour this almost speaking tableau presented itself
to the spectators above.

Then suddenly Lady Agnes arose to her feet and lifted her hands high toward the black dome
of heaven, Salammbo-like, and prayed aloud to her God, the sneering islanders looking on in
silent derision.

CHAPTER XXX

THE PERSIAN ANGEL

The man called Abou suddenly leaped to his feet, and, with the cry of an eager animal, sprang
to her side. His arms closed about her slender figure with the unmistakable lust of the victor.
A piteous, heart-rending shriek left her lips as he raised her clear of the ground and started
toward the dense shadows across the road. Her terror-stricken face was turned to the light;
her cries for mercy were directed to the brute's companions.

They did not respond, but another did. A hoarse, inarticulate cry of rage burst from Deppingham's
lips. His figure shot out through the air and down the short slope with the rush of an infuriated
beast. Even as the astonished Abou dropped his struggling burden to meet the attack of the
unexpected deliverer, he was felled to the earth by a mighty blow from the rifle which his
assailant swung swift and true. His skull was crushed as if it were an eggshell.

Lady Agnes struggled to her feet, wild-eyed, half crazed by the double assault. The next instant
she fell forward upon her face, dead to all that was to follow in the next few minutes. So
much for politics. As for your marriage, I will not deny you're right women want to own one
with the garments of which you speak, but why do not you look? Has it happened to pass before your
eyes? Did you open your mind to yours and has show that deserves to enter into intimate communion
with him, without you even take the job to knock on the door? Are you going to find anything
that treasure you need among the adventurous gallant with the ladies, among whom married bad
fall in love?

- Mother, I now intend to fall in love or any adventure, any gallant
lady, to any unhappily married.

If you have such news, you are misinformed.

- Well then, why do not you go to your cousin Adela? It seems that
the sky goes for you.

It's so good, it's so quiet in the midst of his innocence! Speaking in confidence ... believe
it very likely to fall in love with you. I'm sure you would love.

- Mother's love maybe blind you, but although it tend to love, how
I I send my heart to love you?

I do not love, without love I will not marry any woman.

- You love, I know, which can not be your wife, for that is another
- he finally said the Countess, can not suffer further transgressions
of his child.

- I've told you I do not love any woman now married.

-
I heard you are in relationship with the wife of a clerk in the Treasury,
with a adventurer who goes home to the Countess of San Teódulo.

-
Mother, who may have told lies.

Neither I am in relations with that woman or that woman is an adventurer. Caro would cost any
man who dared to qualify such in my presence.

- You yourself tell what. The vehemence with which the test defend me even more than love. Such
Once the woman has bewitched. The thing is worse than I suspected. It is not a fad, it is a
passion.

- If the respect and friendship are passions, I'm passionate about it, I confess. As same, my
mother, I beseech you that belies my love affair with this woman, and does not contribute to defame
and make perhaps the unhappiness of her husband, who is an excellent man. If the unfortunate
were to know what, so in spite of myself and so without foundation,
tells us slander, would die of grief.

Do not ever allow heaven!

The Countess did not dare to continue the conversation, seeing how excited her son was setting
and the vehemence with which he spoke in favor of Dona Beatriz.

There in the depths of his soul, the Countess was grieved much, imagining that his son had no relations
vulgar, immoral pastime, but without consequences, but a vivid passion.

Also thought that the occasion was less favorable than ever to induce
his son to devoted to politics and his cousin, Adela, and very upset,
took another twist to the conversation, waiting for better days.

XV
The conversation he had with his mother put the Count in a bad mood
Alhedín against foul-mouthed, insolent gossip that were being disseminated
all over his affair with Donna Beatriz, but why not in future be sought
more cautious and looked to avoid giving occasion and those foundations
gossip.

In his heart Bobby Browne was now raging against the fate that had placed him in this humiliating,
almost contemptible position. He, and he alone, was responsible for the sufferings that Lady
Agnes had endured: it was as gall and wormwood to him that other men had been ordained to save
her from the misery that he had created. He could almost have welcomed death for himself and
her rather than to have been saved by George Deppingham. As he staggered along, propelled by
the resistless force which he knew to be a desire to live in spite of it all, he was wondering
how he could ever hold up his head again in the presence of those who damned him, even as they
had prayed for him.

His wife! He could never be the same to her. He had forfeited the trust and confidence of the
one loyal believer among them all.... And now, Lady Deppingham loathed him because his weakness
had been greater than hers!

When he would have slain the four helpless islanders with his own hands, Hollingsworth Chase
had stayed his rage with the single, caustic adjuration:

"Keep out of this, Browne! You've been enough of a damned bounder without trying that sort
of thing."

Tears were in Bobby Browne's eyes as, mile after mile, he blundered along at the side of his
fellow-countryman, his heart bleeding itself dry through the wound those words had made.

It was still pitch dark when they came to the ridge above the park. Through the trees the lights
in the château could be seen. Lady Agnes opened her eyes and cried out in tremulous joy. A
great wave of exaltation swept over Hollingsworth Chase. She was watching and waiting there
with the others!

"Dame Fortune is good to us," he said, quite irrelevantly. Selim muttered the sacred word "Allah."
Chase's trend of thought, whatever it may have been, was ruthlessly checked. "That reminds
me," he said briskly, "we can't waste Allah's time in dawdling here. Luck has been with us--and
Allah, too--great is Allah! But we'll have to do some skilful sneaking on our own hook, just
the same. If the upper gate is being watched--and I doubt it very much--we'll have a hard time
getting inside the walls, signal or no signal. The first thing for us to do is to make everything
nice and snug for our four friends here. You've laboured well and faithfully," he said to the
panting islanders, "and I'm going to reward you. I'm going to set you free. But not yet. Don't
rejoice. First, we shall tie you securely to four stout trees just off the road. Then we'll
leave you to take a brief, much-needed rest. Lady Deppingham, I fancy, can walk the rest of
the way through the woods. Just as soon as we are inside the walls, I'll find some way to let
your friends know that you are here. You can explain the situation to them better than I can.
Tell 'em that it might have been worse."

He and Selim promptly marched the bewildered islanders into the wood. Bobby Browne, utterly
exhausted, had thrown himself to the soft earth. Lady Deppingham was standing, swaying but
resolute, her gaze upon the distant, friendly windows.

At last she turned to look at her husband, timorously, an appeal in her eyes that the darkness
hid. He was staring at her, a stark figure in the night. After a long, tense moment of indecision,
she held out her hands and he sprang forward in time to catch her as she swayed toward him.
She was sobbing in his arms. Bobby Browne's heavy breathing ceased in that instant, and he
closed his ears against the sound that came to them.

Deppingham gently implored her to sit down with him and rest. Together they walked a few paces
farther away from their companion and sat down by the roadside. 

Confused, lost, and surrendered to the weight of his sorrow he was returning home half dead,
and going to enter, he found it full of sheriffs and clerks who carried the furniture behalf
of its creditors. Paros almost meaningless vnder a banana, and meets the lovely lady that
morning, which was still walking around with her beloved uncle, and could not be have to laugh
at the sight of Memnon with his patch. Night fell, and lay down on a heap Memnon straw, near the
walls of his house Entrol fever, is lethargic with the strength of her and appeared in a dream
a heavenly spirit, And he shone like the sun, and had six beautiful wings but no feet, no
head or tail, and not like any thing. Who are you? Memnon said to him. Your good genius, he replied.
For me again, "said Memnon, my eye, my health, my wealth, my sanity, and once told him that
he had lost everything so that day. Adventures are these, "replied the spirit, that never happen
in the world where we live. ? In what world you live? told him the suffering. My country, 'said
the genius, is far Five hundred million miles from the Sun, and is one star next to Sirius, you
are looking at from here. Ilinden country! Memnon, he said. ? With rogues you have not betraying
the men well, not close friends that they cheat their money and take out an eye, or debtors
who fail, or satraps that you laugh at you Quando justice denied? No, I said to the inhabitants of
the star, none of that: we do not deceive the women, because there are none, do not over- gluttony,
because we do not eat, or there are debtors who fail, because we have no silver or gold; We
can not tear your eyes, because it seems our body to yours, and the satraps commit injustices,
because we are all equal.

Memnon then said to him: Lord illustrious, "without girls without eating, when you pass the
time? In care, he said the genius, the other balloons that are at our expense, and I am here
to console. Alas! Memnon replied,? because you came last night, and You might have hindered me to such
nonsense? Because I was in Asan, your older brother, told him the inhabitant of heavens, the
qual is more unfortunate than you, having your gracious majesty the king of the Indies where you
can admire the honor of being employed, mandadole out both eyes by a slight fault, and holding him
in a dungeon, tied hand and foot. Pardi, Memnon exclaimed that we are thrives on having a good
genius in our family, two brothers if one is blind, and one eyed, one lying on straw, and
another in jail. Your luck is moved, replied the animal star: truth is that you will be one-eyed
life, but as it is not, you will live pretty happy, provided they never make the misguided purpose
of being completely sane. ? With that this is something that is not possible to achieve? Memnon
replied pulling a sob. As it is not possible, "replied the other, be fully intelligent, fully-strong,
fully powerful, or completely happy. We ourselves are very distant to be so, a balloon is to the truth
where all this is, but everything goes by degrees in a hundred billion seeded worlds in space.
In the second there is less pleasure and less wisdom in the first, in the third less than in
the second, and so continues till the last, where all the world is completely crazy. I am
afraid, he said Memnon, that our globe is just the house of lunatics in the universe, you're
saying. Not so much as that, he said the spirit, but he is nearby, and that everything must
take its appointed place. In this case, he said Memnon, very some poets are misguided, and some
philosophers, who say everything is fine. Have reason, 'said the philosopher of this world, if
they see the placement of the entire universe. iha! replied Memnon poor, I do not believe as it may
one eye.

End of Memnon.

       

* * * * *

THE two consoles.

Said one day the great philosopher cytophylic a distraught lady, and
had every reason to be: the Lady, the Queen of England, daughter of
the great Henry quarto, was no less unfortunate than you: the cast
of his kingdom, he was on the verge of dying in the ocean in a shipwreck,
and King witnessed the death of her husband on a scaffold.

Much sorry, 'said the lady, and returned to mourn their own misfortunes.

Remember, he said Cilofilo, Mary Stuart, who was honestly in love with a handsome musician I
had excellent voice of choristers. Her husband killed the musician, and then his good friend
and relative, the Queen Elizabeth, who was called maiden, sent him
to cut his head in a hanging scaffold Mourning, after having been
eighteen years in prison. iCruel success! replied the lady; and give
back to your affliction.

Mentar well have heard, followed the dildo, the lovely Joanna of
Naples, which was seized and hanged. I have a confused idea that,
'said the afflicted. Beyond her
was the tall figure of a man.

"You are a trump, Neenah," cried Chase, hurrying up to her. "A Persian angel!"

It was not Neenah's laugh that replied. Chase gasped in amazement and then uttered a cry of joy.

The Princess Genevra, slim and erect, was standing before him, her hand touching her turban
in true military salute, soft laughter rippling from her lips.

In the exuberance of joy, he clasped that little hand and crushed it against his lips.

"You!" he exclaimed.

"Sh!" she warned, "I have retained my guard of honour."

He looked beyond her and beheld the tall, soldierly figure of a Rapp-Thorberg guardsman.

"The devil!" fell involuntarily from his lips.

"Not at all. He is here to keep me from going to the devil," she cried so merrily that he laughed
aloud with her in the spirit of unbounded joy. "Come! Let us run after the others. I want to
run and dance and sing."

He still held her hand as they ran swiftly down the drive, followed closely by the faithful
sergeant.

"You are an angel," he said in her ear. She laughed as she looked up into his face.

"Yes--a Persian angel," she cried. "It's so much easier to run well in a Persian angel's costume,"
she added.

CHAPTER XXXI

A PRESCRIBED MALADY

"You are wonderful, staying out there all night watching for--us." He was about to say "me."

"How could any one sleep? Neenah found this dress for me--aren't these baggy trousers funny?
She rifled the late Mr. Wyckholme's wardrobe. This costume once adorned a sultana, I'm told.
It is a most priceless treasure. I wore it to-night because I was much less conspicuous as
a sultana than I might have been had I gone to the wall as a princess."

"I like you best as the Princess," he said, frankly surveying her in the grey light.

"I think I like myself as the Princess, too," she said naïvely. He sighed deeply. They were
quite close to the excited group on the terrace when she said: "I am very, very happy now,
after the most miserable night I have ever known. I was so troubled and afraid----"

"Just because I went away for that little while? Don't forget that I am soon to go out from
you for all time. How then?"

"Ah, but then I will have Paris," she cried gaily. He was puzzled by her mood--but then, why
not? What could he be expected to know of the moods of royal princesses? No more than he could
know of their loves.

Lady Deppingham was got to bed at once. The Princess, more thrilled by excitement than she
ever had been in her life, attended her friend. In the sanctity of her chamber, the exhausted
young Englishwoman bared her soul to this wise, sympathetic young woman in Persian vestment.

"Genevra," she said solemnly, in the end, "take warning from my example. When you once are
married, don't trifle with other men--not even if you shouldn't love your husband. Sooner or
later you'd get tripped up. It doesn't pay, my dear. I never realised until tonight how much
I really care for Deppy and I am horribly afraid that I've lost something I can never recover.
I've made him unhappy and--and--all that. Can you tell me what it is that made me--but never
mind! I'm going to be good."

"You were not in love with Mr. Browne. That is why I can't understand you, Agnes."

"My dear, I don't understand myself. How can I expect you or my husband to understand me? How
could I expect it of Bobby Browne? Oh, dear; oh, dear, how tired I am! I think I shall never
move out of this bed again. What a horrible, horrible time I've had." She sat up suddenly and
stared wide-eyed before her, looking upon phantoms that came out of the hours just gone.

"Hush, dear! Lie down and go to sleep. You will feel better in a little while." Lady Agnes
abruptly turned to her with a light in her eyes that checked the kindly impulses.

"Genevra, you are in love--madly in love with Hollingsworth Chase. Take my advice: marry him.
He's one man in a--" Genevra placed her hand over the lips of the feverish young woman.

"I will not listen to anything more about Mr. Chase," she said firmly. "I am tired--tired to
death of being told that I should marry him."

"But you love him," Lady Agnes managed to mumble, despite the gentle impediment.

"I do love him, yes, I do love him," cried the Princess, casting reserve to the winds. "He
knows it--every one knows it. But marry him? No--no--no! I shall marry Karl. My father, my
mother, my grandfather, have said so--and I have said it, too. And his father and grandfather
and a dozen great grandparents have ordained that he shall marry a princess and I a prince,
That ends it, Agnes! Don't speak of it again." She cast herself down upon the side of the bed
and clenched her hands in the fierceness of despair and--decision. After a moment, Lady Agnes
said dreamily: "I climbed up the ladder to make a 'ladyship' of myself by marriage and I find
I love my husband. I daresay if you should go down the ladder a few rounds, my dear, you might
be as lucky. But take my advice, if you won't marry Hollingsworth Chase, don't let him come
to Paris."

The Princess Genevra lifted her face instantly, a startled expression in her eyes.

"Agnes, you forget yourself!"

"My dear," murmured Lady Agnes sleepily, "forgive me, but I have such a shockingly absent mind."
She was asleep a moment later.

In the meantime, Bobby Browne, disdaining all commands and entreaties, refused to be put to
bed until he had related the story of their capture and the subsequent events that made the
night memorable. He talked rapidly, feverishly, as if every particle of energy was necessary
to the task of justifying himself in some measure for the night's mishap. He sat with his rigid
arm about his wife's shoulders. Drusilla was stroking one of his hands in a half-conscious
manner, her eyes staring past his face toward the dark forest from which he had come. Mr. Britt
was ordering brandy and wine for his trembling client.

"After all," said Browne, hoarse with nervousness, "there is some good to be derived from our
experiences, hard as it may be to believe. I have found out the means by which Rasula intends
to destroy every living creature in the château." He made this statement at the close of the
brief, spasmodic recital covering the events of the night. Every one drew nearer. Chase threw
off his spell of languidness and looked hard at the speaker. "Rasula coolly asked me, at one
of our resting places, if there had been any symptoms of poisoning among us. I mentioned Pong
and the servants. The devil laughed gleefully in my face and told me that it was but the beginning.
I tell you. Chase, we can't escape the diabolical scheme he has arranged. We are all to be
poisoned--I don't see how we can avoid it if we stay here much longer. It is to be a case of
slow death by the most insidious scheme of poisoning imaginable, or, on the other hand, death
by starvation and thirst. The water that comes to us from the springs up there in the hills
is to be poisoned by those devils."

There were exclamations of unbelief, followed by the sharp realisation that he was, after all,
pronouncing doom upon each and every one of those who listened.

"Rasula knows that we have no means of securing water except from the springs. Several days
ago his men dumped a great quantity of some sort of poison into the stream--a poison that is
used in washing or polishing the rubies, whatever it is. Well, that put the idea into his head.
He is going about it shrewdly, systematically. I heard him giving instructions to one of his
lieutenants. He thought I was still unconscious from a blow I received when I tried to interfere
in behalf of Lady Agnes, who was being roughly dragged along the mountain road. Day and night
a detachment of men are to be employed at the springs, deliberately engaged in the attempt
to change the flow of pure water into a slow, subtle, deadly poison, the effects of which will
not be immediately fatal, but positively so in the course of a few days. Every drop of water
that we drink or use in any way will be polluted with this deadly cyanide. It's only a question
of time. In the end we shall sicken and die as with the scourge. They will call it the plague!"

A shudder of horror swept through the crowd. Every one looked into his neighbour's face with
a profound inquiring light in his eyes, seeking for the first evidence of approaching death.

Hollingsworth Chase uttered a short, scornful laugh as he unconcernedly lifted a match to one
of his precious cigarettes. The others stared at him in amazement. He had been exceedingly
thoughtful and preoccupied up to that moment.

"Great God, Chase!" groaned Browne. "Is this a joke?"

"Yes--and it's on Rasula," said the other laconically.

"But even now, man, they are introducing this poison into our systems----"

"You say that Rasula isn't aware of the fact that you overheard what he said to his man? Then,
even now, in spite of your escape, he believes that we may go on drinking the water without
in the least suspecting what it has in store for us. Good! That's why I say the joke is on him."

"But, my God, we must have water to drink," cried Britt. Mrs. Saunders alone divined the thought
that filled Chase's mind. She clapped her hands and cried out wonderingly:

"I know! I--I took depositions in a poisoning case two years ago. Why, of course!"

"Browne, you are a doctor--a chemist," said Chase calmly, first bestowing a fine smile upon
the eager Mrs. Saunders. "Well, we'll distil and double and triple distil the water. That's
all. A schoolboy might have thought of that. It's all right, old man. You're fagged out; your
brain isn't working well. Don't look so crestfallen. Mr. Britt, you and Mr. Saunders will give
immediate instructions that no more water is to be drunk--or used--until Mr. Browne has had
a few hours' rest. He can take an alcohol bath and we can all drink wine. It won't hurt us.
At ten o'clock sharp Dr. Browne will begin operating the distilling apparatus in the laboratory.
As a matter of fact, I learned somewhere--at college, I imagine--that practically pure water
may be isolated from wine." He arose painfully and stretched himself. "I think I'll get a little
much-needed rest. Do the same, Browne--and have a rub down. By Jove, will you listen to the
row my clients are making out there in the woods! They seem to be annoyed over something."

Outside the walls the islanders were shouting and calling to each other; rifles were cracking,
far and near, voicing, in their peculiarly spiteful way, the rage that reigned supreme.

As Chase ascended the steps Bobby Browne and his wife came up beside him.

"Chase," said Browne, in a low voice, his face turned away to hide the mortification that filled
his soul, "you are a man! I want you to know that I thank you from the bottom of my heart."

"Never mind, old man! Say no more," interrupted Chase, suddenly embarrassed.

"I've been a fool, Chase. I don't deserve the friendship of any one--not even that of my wife.
It's all over, though. You understand? I'm not a coward. I'll do anything you say--take any
risk--to pay for the trouble I've caused you all. Send me out to fight----"

"Nonsense! Your wife needs you, Browne. Don't you, Mrs. Browne? There, now! It will be all
right, just as I said. I daresay, Browne, that I wouldn't have been above the folly that got
the better of you. Only--" he hesitated for a minute--"only, it couldn't have happened to me
if I had a wife as dear and as good and as pretty as the one you have."

Browne was silent for a long time, his arm still about Drusilla's shoulder. At the end of the
long hall he said with decision in his voice:

"Chase, you may tell your clients that so far as I am concerned they may have the beastly island
and everything that goes with it. I'm through with it all. I shall discharge Britt and----"

"My dear boy, it's most magnanimous of you," cried Chase merrily. "But I'm afraid you can't
decide the question in such an off-hand, dégagé manner. Sleep over it. I've come to the conclusion
that it isn't so much of a puzzle as to how you are to get the island as how to get off of
it. Take good care of him, Mrs. Browne. Don't let him talk."

She held out her hand to him impulsively. There was an unfathomable, unreadable look in her
dark eyes. As he gallantly lifted the cold fingers to his lips, she said, without taking her
almost hungry gaze from his face:

"Thank you, Mr. Chase. I shall never forget you."

He stood there looking after them as they went up the stairway, a puzzled expression in his
face. After a moment he shook his head and smiled vaguely as he said to himself:

"I guess he'll be a good boy from now on." But he wondered what it was that he had seen or
felt in her sombre gaze.

In fifteen minutes he was sound asleep in his room, his long frame relaxed, his hands wide
open in utter fatigue. He dreamed of a Henner girl with Genevra's brilliant face instead of
the vague, greenish features that haunt the vision with their subtle mysticism.

He was awakened at noon by Selim, who obeyed his instructions to the minute. The eager Arab
rubbed the soreness and stiffness out of his master's body with copious applications of alcohol.

"I'm sorry you awoke me, Selim," said the master enigmatically. Selim drew back, dismayed.
"You drove her away." Selim's eyes blinked with bewilderment. "I'm afraid she'll never come back."

"Excellency!" trembled on the lips of the mystified servant.

"Ah, me!" sighed the master resignedly. "She smiled so divinely. Henner girls never smile,
do they, Selim? Have you noticed that they are always pensive? Perhaps you haven't. It doesn't
matter. But this one smiled. I say," coming back to earth, "have they begun to distil the water?
I've got a frightful thirst."

"Yes, excellency. The Sahib Browne is at work. One of the servants became sick to-day. Now
no one is drinking the water. Baillo is bringing in ice from the storehouses and melting it,
but the supply is not large. Sahib Browne will not let them make any more ice at present." La Mancha had begun between
Aranjuez (which belongs to the province of Madrid) and Castillejo, corresponding population to
that of Toledo. The province of Ciudad Real, separated in part by the mountains of Montes de
Toledo, are the region of plains and mountains that had the denomination naked Antique Mancha.

Tembleque is an important point in Spain's internal communications, it is not only happening there
the main rail, but leave the center of the roads leading one hand to Granada and Malaga, Cordoba,
Seville and Cadiz, and another to Ciudad Real and Badajoz, through the center of the basin of the
Guadiana. With almost miserable hamlet, a plain, poor and marshy, and dominated by the hills
south of Toledo, Tembleque not started to rise again but under the train to Alicante. Its population
reaches just about 4,000 inhabitants, steady living in greater numbers, despite the production
of cereals, wine, some sheep and several coarse cloth mills and salt.

As I begin my journey to Andalusia fortune wanted to protect me. Lunch in the canteen (or buffet)
Tembleque the station, I found that my colleagues would care to be two French knights who
were traveling for pleasure. They could not speak a word of Spanish, and appeared to be subject
of distinction, able to please and instruct a teammate. Your itinerary was equal to mine, and had
for me the advantage of being Parisians. I wanted very much to know privacy in the type of distinguished
French province, because in general it was not paid very Parisian world of man. Also wanted
to teach me the things concerning to provincial life in France, travel associated with smart
people and watching how as the French judge to Spain. We are, therefore, agreed that I would
be his interpreter and would treat us like old friends. They corresponded well to my desires,
Today, after a long time, I see in either of two people who never let me forget how France is
good and honorable.

The mobile home called "diligence" drawn by ten mules started jumping like demons driving about 17 guests
at discretion of 13 gross (assuming that drivers deserve be classed with mules). In short save the
Montes de Toledo by one of his best open, and we are in full Mancha, in the great valley or plain
that is central to Guadiana river, between the mountains of Toledo and Morena, and extending
the Estremadura, west, towards Portugal. This vast region we crossed from north to south, is rather plains
a number of more or less extensive than a great plain or valley. Wherever the field is choppy,
or by steps of the mountain side, which is moving towards the center, or by cords or small
isolated groups of hills that border the skyline.

The mountain ranges that dominate the region, almost completely bare and sterile, the dry ground,
its general composition of the different alluvial plain, the multiplied sloping hillsides, and
how the winds turn on so vast pit enclosed by all sides by mountains, all that is determined not
only the nature of the productions La Mancha, but also isolation, immobility, customs and spirit
of Mancha populations. I have not ever seen more strange loneliness. They bring together the
idea of opulence and of desolation, hunger and abundance of life and death. No Spain is in
a region that reveals as clearly as the fatal Mancha action of Spanish misrule, the inability
of supporters of isolation, flawed monastic institutions and all that was the last of Spanish
society.

The floor of the Mancha, sandy-clay in general (except limestone and granite rocks in the mountains)
is a huge filter. Wherever there swamps (and these are many) exterior dry land is absolute rare
streams. Penetrate water easily the sandy outer layer and stop at another thicker clay, overlaid sediments
to very strong. Hence, while the water is that almost completely lack the surface, it is easily
found in abundance making excavations or wells, wells in the country called. Water saturated
bonded salts in calcareous sediments interior comes in torrents (to lose again if given course)
using ropes bristle submerged in the reservoirs, coupled with a rudimentary mechanism that moves
a mule turning old unceasingly around the well. It's funny to see half traveler of a desert
plain and abandoned one of those wells, which have the external shape a furnace, where the stolid
mule goes round and round to bring up the water, no one the guide you. The habit is there
the place of man, the animal works only up to whole days.

As the ground so moist inside and dry in its outer layer, and furrowing
of hills and inclined planes, which are like the handle of undulating
hills, identifies three well-marked genera of production.

In the hills and the rough hills, and in the plains sterile, large herds of grazing sheep, whose
wool offers significant value and feeds some looms in populations that are produced very ordinary
cloths and fabrics for including consumption of La Mancha. In the low hills and gentle slopes and
grow rich extensive terraced vineyards often in the form of amphitheatres, or small groves stand
that increase with the melancholy gray ink uniform landscapes. Finally, in undulating plains,
oceans of wheat, barley, oats and rye in the wind to produce in the vast horizon of the most
beautiful emerald or gold reflections, according to the state of the crops. This is the Channel,
such as agricultural country, its main characters.

But not without reason I called oceans cereal plantations. La Mancha is the idea of sea ​​for uniformity
of appearance, for its steadfast loneliness and sadness which wrenches.

Not a song, or a snort, not an echo in the plains! That region is a vast cemetery with all the
desolation and fertility of the fields ... the death .... The traveler walks leagues and miles
and not see a house nor a human being or a cow or pet. In between population there is only desert.
There are no country life, or the simple landscape and funny of the cottage, or the peasant, in
the strict sense of the word. No rather than cities, towns and abandoned fields. Who cultivates
it? - Who cares for those endless fields of grain and these olive groves and vineyards? - Nature.
Man ú is lazy beggar sleeping or begging, while nature does it all. Where Queen wants to silence
....

The sadness still dominates in the English Channel in the vicinity of the towns, where it is concentrated
social life.

After crossing vast plains where there is a tree, not one, nor more than earth and sky, when approaching
a population begins to see everywhere a swarm of wells and windmills scattered across the plains
around the village; while differ in some small mounds many neighboring eminence of land, with
little doors and a dwarf species of coarse dome on top, who have air graves of Indians (the
Colombian huacas) or furnace groups. There are wineries wines of La Mancha, dug into the ground
outdoors and open air, under primitive state to its stationary life of the people of La Mancha.

Everything
is there as we found Don Quixote in his knightly pilgrimages. The Maritornes abound and are the
same; Sancho shows his face everywhere, always conservative, mischievous, good-natured and unresponsive
to the movement, the windmill move with the same regularity that
at the time that the illustrious Manchego apostrophes and spearing
him without mercy, and mules and donkeys, gear, coats, blankets, furniture,
as it is visible there remains faithfully the traditions revealed
by the immortal prisoner Argamasilla.

I think bray mayors today in the same tones as the two who did not say to Cervantes:

"Brayed in vain No One and the other mayor,"

Centuries have passed over the English Channel, without changing anything, as if time had said:
- "There are regions that are better left sleeping dogs lie."

     With the exception of Manzanares, a town of over 10,000 inhabitants,
where, thanks to the nearby creek Azner, there are some malls shameful
that surprise the traveler in these solitudes, the other people seem
to live like the desert.

Wherever dirt, dilapidation, abandonment and debris, houses ugly, heavy and misshapen, with
doors and windows enormis microscopic; winding streets, unpaved,
with deep mud or rock piles in disorder; dead silence everywhere ruined
buildings and lack of arts and trade; bands of starving beggars in
great numbers, roaming the streets like ghosts, spying forward to
the arrival of a coach to fall on passengers, surround them in sheaf,
oppress, and shot literally, to get every one some room or farthing,
a piece of bread or something else, all accompanied by the most horrible
clamor which imaginable.

Each of these populations is a compromise between the ruins, the cemetery and the cloaca where
there is poverty, starvation, the stupid laziness, superstition, envy and hunger .... It is painful
and disgusting to see how they insult and abuse those mutually countless beggars, of all sexes
and ages, fighting for travelers as dams campaign - average covered in horrible rags, whose
appearance is doubly sad for the yellow ink wool fabrics that serve as common dress.

How to explain this appalling misery and the immobility of so many populations within vast
plains of prodigious fertility? The isolation, bad example and poor institutions explain everything.
The convents, making idleness and begging venerable traditions in
the eyes of the ignorant and superstitious crowd, have degraded in
all respects to these people so favored by nature in some things.

As the Government, I repeat the phrase that I have given elsewhere. "He has made the role of dog
in the manger. "Based on the idea of ​​monopoly and centralization, wanted to regulate it
everything. Powerless, has not done anything selfish, has never ceased to do, a friend of isolation,
closed the door to communications. La Mancha has been very rich and happy just to output the huge production
of their lands, almost spontaneous, mainly cereals, and wine oil, wool and other items. But
nestled between mountains, no roads, no freedom change or industry,
and flawed population into habits of idleness and passive obedience,
Mancha life (if the vegetation can be called life) has been concentrated
in cities and villas.

Thus, the fields have been deserted, no houses, no trees, no irrigation, and populations has
perpetuated poverty by the concentration of idle hands.

And this concentration, which is noted in the two main castle, has been, in turn, the cause
of the persistence of bad governance. The man in the field is, in general, the most independent,
equal, and for the life you lead and influence of nature around him, and because the action
of the authority will achieve less. Concentrated the population in cities and towns, not only ends the
life between town and village, but which, being more immediate and active the weight of authority
on ignorant masses abject obedience to passively fits all tyranny, the degraded at all, and
the centralization Absolute makes it easier to establish and more durable. I have found the
key to almost all social phenomena that distinguish the Castile of Spain Catalan Moorish and
Basque, in the substantial difference that shows in the way the population is has concentrated
or distributed.

Once across the mountains of the Montes de Toledo, leaving behind
the north, the great basin Tajo, the vast panorama seemed to be the
same, because there is a singular resemblance between the and the
Guadiana basin.

Going to everyday use, we saw distinctly in the distance with the aid telescope, on a hill,
leaning against a buttress of the mountain we had just cut, the ancient town of Consuegra,
about 9.000 people (belonging to the Toledo province), there are still remains of great Roman
works, and highlights on a steep hill the ruins of an ancient castle that is supposed to be the
work of Trajan. Pass then the town of Madridejos, which has about 7,000 inhabitants, a rate
which does not require description, because everything is uniform la Mancha. After the town
completes the province Toledo and later starts of Ciudad Real, which has its southern limit in central
of the Sierra Morena.

Sort are to the left of the poor villages via Inheritance and Camus, cut throat called Port-Lapiche
hilly, rocky hills where vegetate between five hundred civilians
Sancho Panza sad crosses the region of Villalta, where ducks splash
as solitary other 227 Mancha, between lakes without drainage, and
in the middle of a fertile but poorly cultivated plain is given by
Manzanares, important town, which has some orchards in nursing homes,
but HOWEVER producing fewer apples than beggars.

It was already ten o'clock at night when we arrived, hungry and ground, to the illustrious Valdepeñas,
renowned for its popular wines, not by otherwise. Anyone would think that the 10.800 inhabitants
of the valley-of-rocks would live half tipsy, getting a taste to their pipes and making every
tavern one Capua. Nothing that in Spain the people who drink less wine are the most in producing,
his sobriety is singular, and almost everyone prefers the use of poor water quality.

The meal was served at the inn of the proceedings, and to a hostess honors moody, mean between Dulcinea
and Maritornes, overwhelmed us with chickens and Partridge made in every way imaginable, and
the usual cooked chickpeas, so macadamize solid as stone. They drank the worst wine you'll find
in Valdepeñas Spain, "In the blacksmith house wooden hoe." With the exception of large cities,
where some hotels or inns is served with pleasure, Spain is a country
where the table is a matter of quantity rather than quality.

That is a sober and frugal people, and taste HOWEVER of hoteliers is to agglomerate piles of
dishes, their order and discernment, as if it were only satiate the guest or traveler. Hence it
is often the opposite effect because many dishes are just different editions of the first one
to enter the restaurant scene.

We had not finished cleaning the mouth when he called us to Mayoral relentless diligence. Digestion
was necessary to make the jumps, after eating in abbreviated form under the scheme Impossible
gallinaceous sleeping in that cave is called saloon, stiff as a stake and tossed atrociously
by the Hulk which is Mayoral pilot! We passed through Santa-Cruz-de-Mudela, population of 5,500
souls, silent as a tomb, in the shadows of the night and play Almuradiel (about 600) began
to climb the crossroads of the Sierra Morena, where for so long had
their altars Caco God, between horrible and awesome gorges granite
rocks.

Those times have gone entirely, and the heroic style robber has closed almost all studies
in the Spanish peninsula, and its legacy has been taken in cities most distinguished and civilized
children. Sierra Morena is quieter closed a church, and who exercised their industry there
have been superseded by Ministers State players Exchange, smugglers aristocratic canons bulls
vendors, MPs and other personalities and of unblemished repute, rigorously pursued energy and
vice, vagrancy, crime ... and money.

Nothing more grandly vague, romantic and solemn scene is offered in the eyes of traveler in the
heart of Sierra Morena, in the silence of the night and no moon. Stagecoach conference with a bang
by causeways built to peak on the banks of the great cliffs, producing
in the dark breast of the mountains thousand different echoes.

The huge granite hills, naked abrupt, sometimes torn, intertwined maze, separated by deep pits and
frightening, noting spikes here and there, and cones, and domes and giant moles, covered sad parts
of shrubs, with white flowers and mosses and ferns, the shadows and clear that project, according
to the inflection of the ground, the chill of night noise streams in the depths, the fearful loneliness
of those places that seem dens of robbers or wild beasts and birds of prey: all that gives the
scene the darkest characters and a special interest.

Seeing those formidable barriers granite includes secular tenacious resistance of both races
who fought for eight centuries, supported and defended over and over with the power of nature
and disputing the ground inch by inch, in the narrow gorges of the mountains. Also, the observed
is an excuse (but sophistry) to solitary confinement for so many centuries has prevailed in Spain.

La
Mancha was over, and we played in our Milky Way, after Tembleque, with a total population of
34.500 inhabitants clustered in seven localities [3]. We had already passed the awful gorges
of decriminalization dawn (!!); dogs would begin to spread their
vague clarity.

Very sleepy and tired dormitábamos and, in a kind of nightmare and slumber, when opened the
horizon at noon. The beautiful Andalusia, the country of love and art, fertility and work began
on the heights of Santa Elena.

* * * * *

PART FIVE.

THE ANDALUSIA.

* * * * *

CHAPTER I.

* * * * *

JAEN Y GRANADA.

We walked up near Santa Elena, 210 kilometers from Madrid, and we were missing 218 to complete 428
of the distance between Granada and Madrid. But what a difference in the appearance of the two counties!
Gone was the Gothic race, the Spanish society, genuine representative da old Spain. Later,
some beautiful original groups of the Germanic race, and then a people
profoundly changed by the infusion of Arab blood and traditions industrial
activity and artistic genius of the great oriental and African tribes.

       

In Santa Elena, a small population of some 600 modern people, the
mountains seem to open to give way to life, the sky is now more beautiful,
more delicious air, and nature smiles.

       Scarcely a century ago the Sierra Morena was a desert, a vast succession
of intersections appalling, with no sign of life, industry or trade.

Charles III (the only king liberal and positively good that Spain
has had) decided to bring forth life in the middle of this desert,
founding colonies in Sierra important farmers vigorous for which not
only served as the Spanish, but he brought German immigrants, many
of them Protestants, themselves to give examples and encourage healthy
cross-fertilization races.

       It is to these measures to be the existence of seven new towns in
the Sierra Morena.

Almuradiel located next setentrional, is the first. The other six, corresponding to High Andalusia
(Jaen province) are: Santa Elena, Las Navas de Tolosa (famous for the battle won there in 1212
King Alfonso VIII against the Moorish king, Aben Muhammad), Carolina (Which was named after Charles
III), Charcoal, Aldea-del-Rio and Guarroman. The population total of six colonies in Andalusia
amounts to 7.400 individuals, which correspond 4.728 to Carolina.

Nothing more interesting than the contrast of these populations and their surrounding fields,
aspect of the country with the view recorded in all directions. The show is beautiful and provides
proof of man's power to create wealth, even in the midst of nature ungrateful, when you have the
will to fight and overcome obstacles.

A right and left eyes but do not reveal bare hills and sad, formidable buttresses de la Sierra,
destroyed, scrambled eggs, chopped into its huge granite masses, or multiply rigid in labyrinths
of hills and slopes. The picture looks almost like an ocean reef black, brown, gray, sometimes red, as
if the ancient volcanic upheavals had scattered between depths.

Up front, more than 240 miles away, is the mighty Sierra-Nevada, running from east to west,
similar throughout (less in Snow-white) á la Morena, and to descry dimly reached the spot where
delay the Moorish city of Jaen, lying at the foot of one of the long spurs of the great and steep
barrier.


They saw the tug put out to meet the small boat; they witnessed the same old manoeuvres; they
sustained a chill of surprise and despair when the bright, white and blue boat from the yacht
came to a stop at the command from the tug.

There was an hour of parleying. The beleaguered ones signalled with despairing energy; the
flag, limp in the damp air above the château, shot up and down in pitiful eagerness.

But the small boat edged away from close proximity to the tug and the near-by dock. They spoke
each other at long and ever-widening range. At last, the yacht's boat turned and fled toward
the trim white hull.

Almost before the startled, dazed people on the balcony could grasp the full and horrible truth,
the yacht had lifted anchor and was slowly headed out to sea.

It was unbelievable!

With stupefied, incredulous eyes, they saw the vessel get quickly under way. She steamed from
the pest-ridden harbour with scarcely so much as a glance behind. Then they shouted and screamed
after her, almost maddened by this final, convincing proof of the consummate deviltry against
which they were destined to struggle.

Chase looked grimly about him, into the questioning, stricken faces of his companions. He drew
his hand across his moist forehead.

"Ladies and gentlemen," he said seriously and without the faintest intent to jest, "we are
supposed to be dead!"

There was a single shriek from the bride of Thomas Saunders; no sound left the dry lips of
the other watchers, who stood as if petrified and kept their eyes glued upon the disappearing
yacht.

"They have left me here to die!" came from the stiffened lips of the Princess Genevra. "They
have deserted me. God in heaven!"

"Look!" cried Chase, pointing to the dock. Half a dozen glasses were turned in that direction.

The dying and the dead were leaping about in the wildest exhibition of gleeful triumph!

The yacht slipped into the unreachable horizon, the feathery cloud from its stack lying over
against the leaden sky, shaped like a finger that pointed mockingly the way to safety.

White-faced and despairing, the watchers turned away and dragged themselves into the splendid
halls of the building they had now come to regard as their tomb. Their voices were hushed and
tremulous; they were looking at the handwriting on the wall. They had not noticed it there before.

Saunders was bravely saying to his distracted wife, as he led her down the marble hall:

"Don't give up the ship, dear. My word for it, we'll live to see that garden out Hammersmith
way. My word for it, dear."

"He's trying so hard to be brave," said Genevra, oppressed by the knowledge that it was her
ship that had played them false. "And Agnes? Look, Hollingsworth! She is herself again. Ah,
these British women come up under the lash, don't they?"

Lady Deppingham had thrown off her hopeless, despondent air; she was crying out words of cheer
and encouragement to those about her. Her eyes were flashing, her head was erect and her voice
was rich with inspiration.

"And you?" asked Chase, after a moment. "What of you? Your ship has come and gone and you are
still here--with me. You almost wished for this."

"No. I almost wished that it would not come. There is a distinction," she said bitterly. "It
has come and it has disappointed all of us--not one alone."

"Do you remember what it was that Saunders said about having lived only a week, all told? The
rest was nothing."

"Yes--but you have seen that Saunders still covets life in a garden at Hammersmith Bridge.
I am no less human than Mr. Saunders."

All day long the islanders rejoiced. Answer
me.

- Also is from God, because God made gold and silver ... Tickets do
not know ... But also, too.

- What I say, Nina, is that things are
of that is ... and everybody has except we ... Aha! hurry up, I feel
weak.

Where do I put the medicine? ... And: are on the dresser. I will take a ballot of salicylate
before eating ... Oh, what job I get these legs! Instead of taking them to me, I have to pull them.
(Rising with great effort.) As I would walk with crutches. But you see what God does with me? If
this sounds fun! I was sick of sight, legs, head, kidney, everything except the stomach. Deprived
of resources, I have to digest like a vulture.

- So does me. But I'll take it the wrong way, ma'am.

Blessed be the Lord, that we gives the greatest good of our bodies: hunger Blessed! ".

VII

Already in his early sixties, the unhappy for so many reasons
Zapata Francisca Juarez, known in the years that their deplorable
decline by Dona Paca, a dry, laconic and plebeian familiarity.

Behold how the glories and Highnesses stop this world, and what was pending touring the said lady,
rolling to deep poverty, since dogs tied sausage, for the years 59 and 60, until the alms are
living unconsciously, between agony, pain and shame thousand. Countless examples of these falls
offer us large populations, more than any that of Madrid, where there is little habits of order,
but all the examples above the Dona Francisca Juarez, sad toy destination. Looks good these things
and the rise and fall of people in social life, it is great foolish to take the target to blame
for what is exclusive work of the characters themselves and temperaments, and good example is
Dona Paca, who in his own self from birth carrying the disruption of all things material. Born
in Ronda, his eyes became accustomed from childhood to the dizzy depressions, and when she
had nightmares, dreaming she fell to the profound depth of the crack is called Tajo. Those
born in Ronda head must have very strong and not suffer from dizziness or such thing, made to
look frightful abyss. But Dona Paca could not stand firm on the heights, instinctively tumble,
and his head was not good at it or the government of life, that is security of view in the moral
order.

Paquita Vertigo Juárez was a chronic condition since she was married very young, with D. Antonio
Maria Zapata, who was twice her age, intendant of the army, excellent person, comfortable position
for his home as the bride, who also owned much real estate account.

Zapata served in the Army of Africa, a division of Echagüe, and after Wad-Ras became the Address
field. Established marriage in Madrid, he lacked time to put Mrs. foot home in a frivolous
and flamboyant life, if he started the frame by adjusting the Vanities of income and wages, soon
got out of all bounds of prudence, and not long in coming delays, irregularities, debts. Zapata
ordenadísimo man was, but so he dominated his wife, who even made him lose his eminent qualities,
and how well knew how to manage the flows of the army, saw his men lost, forgotten art conservation.
Paquita did not set rates in elegant dress, or the luxury of table or continuous shaking dances
and meetings, or the wasteful whims. So notorious was and disorder, that Zapata, terrified, looking
to come the thunder fat, had to overcome drowsiness in which he had half his face, and began
to make numbers and want to set method and rationale in the government of his estate, but oh
sad fate of the family! when I was more engrossed man in his arithmetic, waiting for his salvation,
caught pneumonia and passed away life on Friday afternoon, leaving two young children: Antonito
and Obdulia.

Flow manager and owner of assets and liabilities, Francisca soon demonstrated his ineptitude to
manage these tangled issues, and next came, like worms in body corrupt, countless people who ate
it inside and out, devouring her mercilessly

.


The crash of the long-unused six-pounder at the château, followed almost immediately by a great
roar from one of the cruiser's guns, brought the panic to a crisis.

The islanders scattered like chaff before the wind, looking wild-eyed over their shoulders
in dread of the pursuing cannon-ball, dodging in and out among the houses and off into the
foothills.

Rasula, undaunted but crazed with disappointment, stuck to his colours on the deserted dock.
He cursed and raved and begged. In time, two or three of the more canny, realising that safety
lay in an early peace offering, ventured out beside him. Others followed their example and
still others slunk trembling to the fore, their voices ready to protest innocence and friendship
and loyalty.

They had heard of the merciless American gunner and they knew, in their souls, that he could
shoot the island into atoms before nightfall.

The native lawyer harangued them and cursed them and at last brought them to understand, in
a feeble way, that no harm could come to them if they faced the situation boldly. The Americans
would not land on British soil; it would precipitate war with England. They would not dare
to attempt a bombardment: Chase was a liar, a mountebank, a dog! After shouting himself hoarse
in his frenzy of despair, he finally succeeded in forcing the men to get up steam in the company's
tug. All this time, the officers of the American warship were dividing their attention between
land and sea. Another vessel was coming up out of the misty horizon. The men on board knew
it to be a British man-of-war! At last steam was up in the tug. A hundred or more of the islanders
had ventured from their hiding places and were again huddled upon the dock.

Suddenly the throng separated as if by magic, opening a narrow path down which three white
men approached the startled Rasula. A hundred eager hands were extended, a hundred voices cried
out for mercy, a hundred Mohammedans beat their heads in abject submission.

Hollingsworth Chase, Lord Deppingham and a familiar figure in an ill-fitting red jacket and
forage cap strode firmly, defiantly between the rows of humble Japatites. Close behind them
came a tall, resolute grenadier of the Rapp-Thorberg army.

"Make way there, make way!" Mr. Bowles was crying, brandishing the antique broadsword that
had come down to Wyckholme from the dark ages. "Stand aside for the British Government! Make
way for the American!"

Rasula's jaw hung limp in the face of this amazing exhibition of courage on the part of the
enemy. He could not at first believe his eyes. Hoarse, inarticulate cries came from his froth-covered
lips. He was glaring insanely at the calm, triumphant face of the man from Brodney's, who was
now advancing upon him with the assurance of a conqueror.

"You see, Rasula, I have called for the cruiser and it has come at my bidding." Turning to
the crowd that surged up from behind, cowed and cringing, Chase said: "It rests with you. If
I give the word, that ship will blow you from the face of the earth. I am your friend, people.
I would you no harm, but good. You have been misled by Rasula. Rasula, you are not a fool.
You can save yourself, even now. I am here as the servant of these people, not as their master.
I intend to remain here until I am called back by the man who sent me to you. You have----"

Rasula uttered a shriek of rage. He had been crouching back among his cohorts, panting with
fury. Now he sprang forward, murder in his eyes. His arm was raised and a great pistol was
levelled at the breast of the man who faced him so coolly, so confidently. Deppingham shouted
and took a step forward to divert the aim of the frenzied lawyer.

A revolver cracked behind the tall American and Rasula stopped in his tracks. There was a great
hole in his forehead; his eyes were bursting; he staggered backward, his knees gave way; and,
as the blood filled the hole and streamed down his face, he sank to the ground--dead!

The soldier from Rapp-Thorberg, a smoking pistol in his hand, the other raised to his helmet,
stepped to the side of Hollingsworth Chase.

"By order of Her Serene Highness, sir," he said quietly.

"Good God!" gasped Chase, passing his hand across his brow. For a full minute there was no
sound to be heard on the pier except the lapping of the waves. Deppingham, repressing a shudder,
addressed the stunned natives.

"Take the body away. May that be the end of all assassins!"

       *       *       *       *       *

The King's Own came alongside the American vessel in less than an hour. Accompanied by the
British agent, Mr. Bowles, Chase and Deppingham left the dock in the company's tug and steamed
out toward the two monsters. The American had made no move to send men ashore, nor had the
British agent deemed it wise to ask aid of the Yankees in view of the fact that a vessel of
his own nation was approaching.

Standing on the forward deck of the swift little tug, Chase unconcernedly accounted for the
timely arrival of the two cruisers.

"Three weeks ago I sent out letters by the mail steamer, to be delivered to the English or
American commanders, wherever they might be found. Undoubtedly they were met with in the same
port. That is why I was so positive that help would come, sooner or later. It was very simple.
Lord Deppingham, merely a case of foresightedness. I knew that we'd need help and I knew that
if I brought the cruisers my power over these people would never be disturbed again."

"My word!" exclaimed the admiring Bowles.

"Chase, you may be theatric, but you are the most dependable chap the world has ever known,"
said Deppingham, and he meant it.

The warships remained off the harbour all that day. Officers from both ships were landed and
escorted to the château, where joy reigned supreme, notwithstanding the fact that the grandchildren
of the old men of the island were morally certain that their cause was lost. The British captain
undertook to straighten out matters on the island. He consented to leave a small detachment
of marines in the town to protect Chase and the bank, and he promised the head men of the village,
whom he had brought aboard the ship, that no mercy would be shown if he or the American captain
was compelled to make a second visit in response to a call for aid. To a man the islanders
pledged fealty to the cause of peace and justice: they shouted the names of Chase and Allah
in the same breath, and demanded of the latter that He preserve the former's beard for all
eternity.

The King's Own was to convey the liberated heirs, their goods and chattels, their servants
and their penates (if any were left inviolate) to Aden, whither the cruiser was bound. At that
port a P. & O. steamer would pick them up. One white man elected to stay on the island with
Hollingsworth Chase, who steadfastly refused to desert his post until Sir John Brodney indicated
that his mission was completed. That one man was the wearer of the red jacket, the bearer of
the King's commission in Japat, the undaunted Mr. Bowles, won over from his desire to sit once
more on the banks of the Serpentine and to dine forever in the Old Cheshire Cheese.

The Princess Genevra, the wistful light deepening hourly in her blue-grey eyes, avoided being
alone with the man whom she was leaving behind. She had made up her mind to accept the fate
inevitable; he had reconciled himself to the ending of an impossible dream. There was nothing
more to say, except farewell. She may have bled in her soul for him and for the happiness that
was dying as the minutes crept on to the hour of parting, but she carefully, deliberately concealed
the wounds from all those who stood by and questioned with their eyes.

She was a princess of Rapp-Thorberg!

The last day dawned. The sun smiled down upon them. The soft breeze of the sea whispered the
curse of destiny into their ears; it crooned the song of heritage; it called her back to the
fastnesses where love may not venture in.

The château was in a state of upheaval; the exodus was beginning. Servants and luggage had
departed on their way to the dock. Palanquins were waiting to carry the lords and ladies of
the castle down to the sea. The Princess waited until the last moment. She went to him. He
was standing apart from the rest, coldly indifferent to the pangs he was suffering.

"I shall love you always," she said simply, giving him her hand. "Always, Hollingsworth." Her
eyes were wide and hopeless, her lips were white.

He bowed his head. "May God give you all the happiness that I wish for you," he said. "The End!"

She looked steadily into his eyes for a long time, searching his soul for the hope that never
dies. Then she gently withdrew her hands and stood away from him, humbled in her own soul.

"Yes," she whispered. "Good-bye."

He straightened his shoulders and drew a deep breath through compressed nostrils. "Good-bye!
God bless you," was all that he said.

She left him standing there; the wall between them was too high, too impregnable for even Love
to storm.

Lady Deppingham came to him there a moment later. "I am sorry," she said tenderly. "Is there
no hope?"

"There is no hope--for her!" he said bitterly. "She was condemned too long ago."

On the pier they said good-bye to him. He was laughing as gaily and as blithely as if the world
held no sorrows in all its mighty grasp.

"I'll look you up in London," he said to the Deppinghams. "Remember, the real trial is yet
to come. It wants to live there many years, in a ceaseless contemplation of love and contemplation and
poetry ....

Is passed under the portico of the fortress, leaving
the forest town of mysterious harmonies and the traveler is in the
vast courtyard of the cisterns.

In the center tanks as underground cavity is immense: the south the Alcazaba, the tower and
platforms Prisons and late in the tower high Vela, north of Summer Palace to the right, a wide
street to the left leads to the town or citadel, and the center's palace Charles V, and noble
colossal ruin attributions a small part of the site that covers the Hall Winter of the Moorish
kings. Wherever debris giant, desolation and sadness, - the skeleton colossal military and artistic
miracle of civilization ....

Going up from the dusty stairs broken walls of the gloomy building
Prisons steps abroad resonate within the granite mass of brick and
very hard, producing recondite echoes that seem the cries of the victims
huddled under such time tremendous vaults.

When it comes to the broad label of that vast tomb, and breathing free air under the sky Granada
poetic, it feels like a kind of resurrection. We went up to the Torre de la Vela, eager to embrace the
stunning skyline that includes from there. It was at that point where great tremolo for the
first time the standard of Catholic kings, the January 2, 1492, to announce to all the inhabitants
of the Vega Boabdil's reign had ended.

The ambition to reveal the deep emotions that I dominated during contemplation of that wonderful
show. I looked around, gave a cry of supreme pleasure, me and the bastion of high rim to keep
from falling, because I snatched vertigo, and silent, trembling,
breath, I felt a tear that escaped me as the purest tribute .... It
was looking at the image of my country!

Indeed, given consideration to the distances and proportions and to the details characteristic
there is nothing like as rare offering in the set as the Vega of Granada with its mountains,
views from the Alhambra, and the plain of Bogotá, surrounded by hills,
viewed from the heights of "Montserrat."

Reason was the conqueror of my country to call New Granada, and still give to his capital the name
of Santa Fe, in memory of the town of the Catholic Monarchs (Which is hard to see from the Alhambra)
bold the birthplace of Gonzalo Jimenez de Quesada.

The picture is recorded with the view from the Torre de la Vela is much superior to beauty can
imagine.

At the foot lies the city of Granada, falling in an inclined plane towards the plain, full of whims,
interesting details, magnificent groves at intervals, towers and monuments of various shapes,
caressed by the Jenil on one side, sliced Mud on the other, and surrounded by a vast belt of
cármenes (orchards, gardens and houses field) which has the most luxurious vegetation. On the right
stands the bracket mountains where you can admire the beauties of Monte Santo and Albaicin neighborhood,
suburb subway where they live under rocks, in misery and dejection, the mysterious race of
Gypsies; and opens at the bottom of the hill that separates the Alhambra and the Jeneralife, falls
in gardens, mills and forests of fruit trees on Barro moody, miserable stream so quickly as a
mighty stream.

Then in the bottom of the picture, the gorgeous Vega - where once
occupied in the fair his spirit, his gallantry and hatreds and ambitions
and Zegries Abencerrajes, and you can taste intelligente race prodigies
of art work in agriculture and in the ingenious manufacturing activity.

La Vega de Granada is literally a sea of ​​verdure, in which background highlight many populations,
reaching to distinguish between other Santa Fe, the two Gavia Churriana, doublet and Alendin.
Groups of these stocks are a very funny game lined with trees that indicate the course of roads
and streams and the demarcation of estates, with cereal plantations, mulberry, orange, hazelnut,
lemon, pomegranates, olives, almonds and many fruit trees, and the thousand and gorgeous country
houses Paradise cármenes Granada.

Finally, all that is splendid landscape framed by the mountains of the Sierra-Nevada, where in
the top of the amphitheater of hills and inclines, and on huge pedestals abrupt granite and marble stands
out as the spine of a sea of ​​shining silver cord of eminences crowned
with perpetual snow, which seems to be sending to the European reflections
the scorching sun of Africa .... In one of these amphitheatres of
hills can see the sigh of the Moro, from the top of the defeated Boabdil
say launched the latest look and the last the gentle farewell to Granada,
and conquered by the armies of Ferdinand and Isabella ....

Descended
from the Torre de la Vela to enter the sanctuary of art voluptuous
Orientals by the rare contrast to the palace of Charles V. What page
of civilizations different stone laid on the same hill!

In the towers Bermejas and Vela, the Phoenician and Roman architecture, the Alcazaba, the Moorish
architecture of the second period; at the Alhambra Palace (summer) and refined the florid style
of the third period, and ruined palace of Charles V the classical architecture of the Renaissance.
So, in just a space reduced, many different races and civilizations have their representation!

One
can imagine the wonderful grandeur that must have the most important part of the Alhambra (Winter
Palace) just know that the vast building now called "palace of Charles V "just takes up a
quarter of the place that is covered by the main building the Alhambra,
which was destroyed by the king's vanity proud emperor.

Today the building has only its magnificent walls and facades, interior archways and elements of sumptuous
palace. Its exterior shape is square, but inside is perfectly circular, as if he had tried to
establish there a Roman circus. That splendid ruin called much attention, but it does not matter
as the summer palace, because the traveler arrives alone concerned with what is in the nature of
Moorish or Oriental.

The first impression that one feels upon entering the venue is famous
for disappointment.

Have weighted both the wonders of the Alhambra and its grandeur, that the visit is found very
inferior to the descriptions made by travel enthusiasts. Since then, wonder today is but a
detail of what was the residence of the kings of Granada and their court; and even a few years here
working to restore the Summer Palace, which collapsed in ruins and has been devastated by barbarian
visitors from all countries, there are patios and rooms whose condition does not correspond
to what the artists and antique dealers who believed it should contain the palace.

I would need to write hundreds of pages (and misspelled) if to indicate detail everything of
luxury, caprice, picturesque refinement, wealth and ornaments specialty
art and style, in those marble and tiled patios filled water and treats,
such as the Myrtles and the Lions, those walls studded with arabesques
gorgeous, those shiny floors and covered with mosaic tiles and whimsical;
those that seem cedar paneling embroidered by the chisel of a fairy;
those vaults and ceilings and roofs of various shapes, modeling plaster,
whose color moldings one hundred vivid echoes resound singular that
group of marble lions that seem to be telling the world today loves
the sultanas and harem slaves, those rooms wonderful stucco filigree,
which hold within its walls a thousand memories, under the names Ambassadors
room of the Sisters, Justice, the Abencerrajes (which makes evoke
the shadows of the victims), Queen of Lindaraja, etc., those gardens
filled sources and myrtle and orange, those alabaster baths and toilets
of voluptuousness; the mosque to remember an entire poetic and sublime
religion, those difficult passages, basements and stairways in labyrinths,
and those air balconies suspended over depths for that queens and
princesses blackberries might behold the cármenes del Darro, the nearby
hills and the city and its plain, splashing with delight in the light
of the morning and gusts of aromas and harmonies that gave off the
orchards, gardens and streams and birds thousand in the Alhambra skirts
dominates with its walls and towers, their roofs and shutters.

If you ask me what is in summary my opinion on the Summer Palace, say, to risk of not pleasing to
the artists or to the Spanish fans who boast of a monument due to a civilization pursued by Catholic
Spain: The rest of the Alhambra is a fraction nomas, is curious, but not great and noble: it's
nice but not beautiful. There reveals all the slave, not the real artist, all are deeply voluptuous
and artificial; everything speaks to the senses, to the brutal passions (love lewd, gambling,
hatred and revenge), there is nothing that addresses the mind, the
soul divine - anything that is noble, delicate and sublime.

The Alhambra is not the work of an artistic people, as were the Gothic churches the same time, but
the automatic work-slave labor, obedience to a mandate designed by a master, whom dominated the
instinct of pleasure, habit of authority suspicious, vengeful and sensual.

In general, although they are funny varieties in colors and shapes of ornaments, the work shows
in all rooms and rooms of the Alhambra is as homogeneous his genius or his style, and even in
its execution, which reveals the wealth of fantasy artist but the patient hand of a craftsman imitating
a model unchanged, or using molds for affixing the carved plaster or arabesques. The stone
does there any role in pertains to the art, almost all in plaster or plastic, and in the woodwork
wealth of work is secondary. That consideration is greatly diminished the value of comparative
exquisite details of the palace. When going around, the soul does not experience any emotion,
and almost feel the tremors of the flesh as if behind every door was asleep between flowers and
perfumes, on a bed of marble, a princess or slave naked-eye hot and ebony hair ....

But there is something singular in the Alhambra, and is cheating anyway, producing different impressions,
according to the visits that are made and the mood overseas. Which have not read anything about
the Alhambra is wonderful to see her. Anyone who has read the descriptions Washington Irving, Theophile
Gautier and other writers, the reality is lower in the first time, and leaves the Alhambra quite disappointed.
But if you come back tomorrow and see everything, and meditate to
guess the past that disappeared, an idea is acquired better, each
visit to the Alhambra feel that grows in the imagination and has more
and more charms.

Finally, if it is seen from the top of Jeneralife height, and crosses all the land round the
Alhambra appears the spirit in all its grandeur set that was, and the findings vary.

We go up to the Alhambra in four different days for different sides and paths, and looking all
their faces or their views. Viewed from the hill or from the Jeneralife Albaicin, prints are different.
From the first point is the original looks, superb and picturesque. From the second it is completely
understood, finding it great, wonderful and very complex.

The Jeneralife was the cottage, in a sense, of the Alhambra. It has its seat in a upper hill, immediately
to the plain of the Alhambra, and is, in turn, dominated by another highest hill, where once existed
a fortress that Marshal Soult was to fly for Napoleon's war, and
whose ruins are still few scattered on the mound.

By foot of floor debris artificial stream waters lavishes salladoras to Jeneralife, The Alhambra,
Granada cármenes neighbors. A huge deep runs the Darro, and, HOWEVER, creek that was, from many
miles away, brought abundant streams palaces and gardens to the industrious Moors, these sun-lovers
and playful waters.

Jeneralife The building is outside the fortifications of the Alhambra, but was viaducts linked
by air. That was where rested and bathed the princesses, ladies cutting and slave, enjoying endless
pleasure in a wonderful sky, between thousand perfumes, rumors and fads, in pools and marble
tubs, and having to round the most charming of the world horizon. The Jeneralife consists of a maze
of roundabouts pavilions, gazebos, fountains whimsical, bathrooms, orchards, gardens and a
thousand beauties artificial where they were heavily agglomerated
and willing the rich marble and jasper, beautiful stucco, delicate
arabesques, the beautiful tiles, Cascadilla, terraces, groups myrtle,
orange, jasmine, pomegranate and rose form the most graceful figures,
and As was characteristic of Oriental art, so adept in the arrangement
of colors, orientation of buildings, water distribution and plant
cultivation.

From there you have the full picture of the Alhambra, Sr. had an immense work, formidable and
very varied conditions. First line of fortifications, under the edges leading the circumference
of the plain, enclosed it all: the citadel and palaces, parks and gardens and Jeneralife. Another
more formidable line as a whole, with many towers Here and there, separating the Alhambra and
the citadel of the parks, the Jeneralife, etc.; and finally, the palaces themselves from the
residences of the Court were separated from the mass who composed the citadel, divided into many
streets with gardens, where no doubt lived courtesans families and perhaps a part of the garrison.
Today everything is almost in ruins, exception of the Summer Palace
and the Great Mosque, there are many empty spaces, the towers have
collapsed, the interior gardens are skeleton, and in the streets of
this small strengths enclosed court city, many houses are empty and
others are inhabited but for families destitute and beggars.

* * * * *

Granada's cathedral, dating from the XV and XVI, but his great and splendid gender and a wonderful
richness of ornamentation and detail, is, according to my taste, lower the other cathedrals of
Spain, as a whole. I have a passion for the grim determination solemnity, originality and boldness
of the Gothic cathedrals, they are monuments typical, popular and in harmony with the stern
seclusion of religion. But disgust me in temples and effeminate scholastic refinements of
the Renaissance, they do evoke memory of paganism. Granada's cathedral, built by the Catholic Monarchs
is the purest Renaissance style, combining different types of orders. Is a great monument
of majestic proportions, but heavy in mass, without boldness and
forms a regularity that interested at first, just to be monotonous.

A huge ship making its semicircle at the bottom and embraces the two sides, as the ships side,
and three in the center round the vast building. A choir in poor central hours designed, cut
the body of the building, removing much of its majesty, and, except Some reliefs of a beautiful
marble altars gable-proud, only draws attention by its two huge bodies, whose pipes penetrating the
roof seem to want to launch to heaven their solemn melodies.
 "We'll leave Japat
to take care of itself. I don't know which it is in most danger of, seismic or Semitic disturbances."

He lighted a fresh cigarette, tenderly fingering it before applying the match.

"I'll smoke one of hers to-night, Selim. See! I keep them apart from the others, in this little
gold case. I smoke them only when I am thinking. Now, run in and tell Mr. Bowles that I said
he was a Tray. I want to be alone."

They left him and he threw himself upon the green sod, his back to a tree, his face toward
the distant château. Hours afterward the faithful Selim came out to tell him that it was bedtime.
He found his master still sitting there, looking across the moonlit flat in the direction of
a place in the hills where once he had dwelt in marble halls.

"Selim," he said, arising and laying his hand upon his servant's shoulder, his voice unsteady
with finality, "I have decided, after all, to go to Paris! We will live there, Selim. Do you
understand?" with strange fierceness, a great exultation mastering him. "We are to live in Paris!"

To himself, all that night, he was saying: "I must see her again--I shall see her!"

A thousand times he had read and re-read the letter that Lady Deppingham had written to him
just before the ceremony in the cathedral at Thorberg. He knew every word that it contained;
he could read it in the dark. She had said that Genevra was going into a hell that no hereafter
could surpass in horrors! And that was ages ago, it seemed to him. Genevra had been a wife
for nearly three months--the wife of a man she loathed; she was calling in her heart for him
to come to her; she was suffering in that unspeakable hell. All this he had come to feel and
shudder over in his unspeakable loneliness. He would go to her! There could be no wrong in
loving her, in being near her, in standing by her in those hours of desperation.

A copy of a London newspaper, stuffed away in the recesses of his trunk, dated June 29th, had
come to him by post. It contained the telegraphic details of the brilliant wedding in Thorberg.
He had read the names of the guests over and over again with a bitterness that knew no bounds.
Those very names proved to him that her world was not his, nor ever could be. Every royal family
in Europe was represented; the list of noble names seemed endless to him--the flower of the
world's aristocracy. How he hated them!

The next morning Selim aroused him from his fitful sleep, bringing the news that a strange
vessel had arrived off Aratat. Chase sprang out of bed, possessed of the wild hope that the
opportunity to leave the island had come sooner than he had expected. He rushed out upon his
veranda, overlooking the little harbour.

A long, white, graceful craft was lying in the harbour. Acted, finally, Beatriz married to a young, beautiful and bright, with a man she could love and
love her with all the youthful energy of the soul, and then imagine Don Braulio talks, ecstasy, rapture,
tenderness ineffable pleasures infinite, divine glories love, still hidden in the depths of the
soul of Dona Beatriz, a whole heaven of bliss sunk there, and that he had never given rise
and come up with their weak spells.

       *       *       *       *       *

Three weeks later, Hollingsworth Chase stepped from the deck of the yacht to the pier in Marseilles;
the next day he was in Paris, attended by the bewildered and almost useless Selim. An old and
valued friend, a campaigner of the war-time days, met him at the Gare de Lyon in response to
a telegram.

"I'll tell you the whole story of Japat, Arch, but not until to-morrow," Chase said to him
as they drove toward the Ritz. "I arrived yesterday on the Marquess of B----'s yacht--the Cricket.
Do you know him? Of course you do. Everybody does. The Cricket was cruising down my way and
picked me up--Bowles and me. The captain came a bit out of his way to call at Aratat, but he
had orders of some sort from the Marquess, by cable, I fancy, to stop off for me."

He did not regard it as necessary to tell his correspondent friend that the Cricket had sailed
from Marseilles with but one port in view--Aratat. He did not tell him that the Cricket had
come with a message to him and that he was answering it in person, as it was intended that
he should--a message written six weeks before his arrival in France. There were many things
that Chase did not explain to Archibald James.

"You're looking fine, Chase, old man. Did you a lot of good out there. You're as brown as that
Arab in the taximetre back there. By Jove, old man, that Persian girl is ripping. You say she's
his wife? She's--" Chase broke in upon this far from original estimate of the picturesque Neenah.

"I say, Arch, there's something I want to know before I go to the Marquess's this evening.
I'm due there with my thanks. He lives in the Boulevard St. Germain--I've got the number all
right. Is one likely to find the house full of swells? I'm a bit of a savage just now and I'm
correspondingly timid."

His friend stared at him for a moment.

"I can save you the trouble of going to the Marquess," he said. "He and the Marchioness are
in London at present. Left Paris a month ago."

"What? The house is closed?" in deep anxiety. If you are looking to an Andalusian Seville for good, with refinement and courtesy, although it
belongs the vulgar, found him friendly, expansive, very attentive and obliging. But watch out
for walk by crook! Then, if a bullfighter, or bully or farmer, horseman or something like that,
I check for the moment a shower of expletives in to pound and he took out the knife or rolling up
fists to decide the question by way of enforcement. But if instead of one of those geniuses Atrabiliarios
occurs with a boastful type Andalusian (which abounds so much), the altercation have different
proportions: it is a struggle of words mountains where the alien who does not know While the country
may be completely mystified. On hearing the Andalusian throwing bravado, you would believe able to
swallow the Sierra-Nevada and unhinge the world with a kick. Is formalized, twitches, shouts, threatens,
roars like a cannon and looks like a fury .... Le cojeis the word, showing that not afraid, and
then the lamb is lion, makes you a thousand blandishments, laughs, makes him all joke ("binge")
and invites you to grab a drink with the utmost cordiality.

The Andalusian, and perhaps more than all the Seville, is frank and jocular, yet lightweight helmets:
a bad word, a quizzical look, a gesture is enough to cause doubt a complaint noisy. Fortunately,
though often the business is arranged with knives or at least to the more slaps and punches,
usually gruff and blustering storm ends a reconciliation at the pub, sworn on the bottle in
a puff of smoke, snuff, maybe the sound of the guitar. HOWEVER, there is a question not ever fix
(at least in the world of bullfighters, and manolas majos) but by ways in fact or by giving up absolute:
it is the matter of love, which often is only a matter of vanity or dot. The Seville of that
class does not support even a glance at his girl upstart addressed or your pretty girl, as
they call them. If a husband is sometimes tolerant and more human, as a lover leads to the
ferocity of jealousy or ridicule. This proves that the vanity goes a long, and very little true
love in the energy with which to defend its possession or monopoly. We look upon his "girl" or
pass by the bottom of the window once and spear, to the second makes you frown sullen; to the
third I said with anger and stress provoking:

"- Eh, mister! (Or Camarda) who encounters me bujca me! If you peel ujté me eye to EJTA girl
another sees, and know that it could occur to chicoteo, ú chicotéamo
us!

That if they want sarba er Burt er ujté road and take to another party with music. "

And strength is giving up the company, failing which the knife into action to support with their
arguments, the intimation of Andalusian jealous.

The inclination to gallantry (and his many consequences) is very general in Seville. The 'Gate'
or window on that makes a very important and traditional. If you walk down the streets you
after six o'clock in the afternoon, wherever you will see scenes that will give idea of ​​comedy
da hilt. At the foot of many low and narrow windows is tipping some gallant head with an air of
mystery, leaning on one arm resting on the wall, and wrapped in his cloak, if gender is not nice
(but not spend jacket), as seen in the a face flattering shadow looming on the bottom of the
grate. What do these two figures? - Are stripping the kettle. I had often heard this phrase in
Colombia, with a very different meaning. There is called stripping
the kettle to be idle, wasting time when it is bound to a work or
task - as the pawn suspending work for bed or get to chat free trade. He knew
that she was coming down the broad hallway--he could hear the rustle of her gown. Inconsequently
he was wondering whether she would be dressed in black. Then, to his humiliation, he remembered
that he was wearing uncouth, travel-soiled garments.

She was dressed in white--a house gown, simple and alluring. There was no suggestion of the
coronet, no shadow of grief in her manner as she came swiftly toward him, her hands extended,
a glad light in her eyes.

The tall man, voiceless with emotion, clasped her hands in his and looked down into the smiling,
rapturous face.

"You came!" she said, almost in a whisper.

"Yes. I could not have stayed away. I have just heard that you--you are free. You must not
expect me to offer condolences. It would be sheer hypocrisy. I am glad--God, I am glad! You
sent for me--you sent the yacht, Genevra, before--before you were free. 

In my journeys I found an old rut, sugeto very sane, educated, discreet, and with this rich,
which made him more sane, because, as he did not lack anything, did not need to cheat anyone.
Three women governed their very beautiful family, whose husband was, and when not recreated with their
wives, were occupied in philosophy. He lived with his house that was beautiful, well-jeweled and
pleasant gardens, an old India, blessed, silly, and very poor.

Díxome one day the rut: I never been born.

"Hollingsworth, I cannot, I will not blame you for thinking ill of me," she said. "Have I fallen
in your eyes? I wanted you to be near me. That exemplo stone is brown, and such a figure, has three dimensions, and is serious and
divisible. That's right, he said on Sirius? But that thing that you think divisible, serious
and dark, I'll say it is? Some attributes see but? The backbone of
these attributes you know?
He was nothing to me. I want you for my husband, dearest. It was what I meant when I sent out
there for you--that, and nothing else."

