8. I dined to-day with Mr. Secretary St. John; he gave me a letter to read, which was from
the publisher of the newspaper called the Postboy;(4) in it there was a long copy of a letter
from Dublin, giving an account of what the Whigs said upon Mr. Harley's being stabbed, and
how much they abuse him and Mr. Secretary St. John; and at the end there were half a dozen
lines, telling the story of the Archbishop of Dublin, and abusing him horribly; this was to
be printed on Tuesday. I told the Secretary I would not suffer that about the Archbishop to
be printed, and so I crossed it out; and afterwards, to prevent all danger, I made him give
me the letter, and, upon further thought, would let none of it be published: and I sent for
the printer, and told him so, and ordered him, in the Secretary's name, to print nothing reflecting
on anybody in Ireland till he had showed it me. Thus I have prevented a terrible scandal to
the Archbishop, by a piece of perfect good fortune. I will let him know it by next post; and
pray, if you pick it out, let me know, and whether he is thankful for it; but say nothing.

9. I was to-day at the House of Commons again about their yarn, at Lord Anglesea's desire;
but the business is again put off till Monday. [213] in same examples domes cut as a sculptor has kept
the cords by which the barbette walls were indicated in place. We find almost the tent in the figure-wall
at Tooke (vedeau, decision Khorsabad ninive, pl. 146), but there profile is reproduced with
a middle and there are the cords. Between the man-here the it of the artist rises above a semi to
his Monument, suggesting less relief of the existence within. Here the bas may have been figuring
no house has rather than a canvas. [214] strabo, xv.

 He is much better;
but when he is well, he is like Stella, and will not be governed. So go to your Stoyte's, and
I'll go sleep.

10. I have been visiting Lady Worsley and Mrs. Barton today, and dined soberly with my friend
Lewis. The Dauphin is dead of an apoplexy; I wish he had lived till the finishing of this letter,
that it might be news to you. Duncombe,(5) the rich alderman, died to-day, and I hear has left
the Duke of Argyle, who married his niece, two hundred thousand pounds; I hope it is true,
for I love that Duke mightily. I writ this evening to the Archbishop of Dublin, about what
I told you; and then went to take leave of poor Mrs. St. John, who gave me strict charge to
take care of the Secretary in her absence; said she had none to trust but me; and the poor
creature's tears came fresh in her eyes. Before we took leave, I was drawn in by the other
ladies and Sir John Stanley to raffle for a fan, with a pox; it was four guineas, and we put
in seven shillings apiece, several raffling for absent people; but I lost, and so missed an
opportunity of showing my gallantry to Mrs. St. John, whom I designed to have presented it
to if I had won. Is Dilly(6) gone to the Bath? His face will whizz in the water; I suppose
he will write to us from thence, and will take London in his way back.--The rabble will say,
"There goes a drunken parson"; and, which is worse, they will say true. Oh, but you must know
I carried Ford to dine with Mr. St. John last Sunday, that he may brag, when he goes back,
of dining with a Secretary of State. The Secretary and I went away early, and left him drinking
with the rest, and he told me that two or three of them were drunk. They talk of great promotions
to be made; that Mr. Harley is to be Lord Treasurer, and Lord Poulett(7) Master of the Horse,
etc., but they are only conjecture. The Speaker is to make Mr. Harley a compliment the first
time he comes into the House, which I hope will be in a week. He has had an ill surgeon, by
the caprice of that puppy Dr. Radcliffe, which has kept him back so long; and yesterday he
got a cold, but is better to-day.--What! I think I am stark mad, to write so much in one day
to little saucy MD; here is a deal of stuff, indeed! can't you bid those little dear rogues
good-night, and let them go sleep, Mr. Presto? When your tongue runs there's no ho with you, pray.

11. Again at the lobby (like a lobcock)(8) of the House of Commons, about your Irish yarn,
and again put off till Friday; and I and Patrick went into the City by water, where I dined,
and then I went to the auction of Charles Barnard's books; but the good ones were so monstrous
dear, I could not reach them, so I laid out one pound seven shillings but very indifferently,
and came away, and will go there no more. So good-night, and go sleep.

12. I went about noon to the Secretary, who is very ill with a cold, and sometimes of the gravel,
with his champagne, etc. I scolded him like a dog, and he promises faithfully more care for
the future. To-day my Lord Anglesea, and Sir Thomas Hammer, and Prior, and I dined, by appointment,
with Lieutenant-General Webb.(10) My lord and I stayed till ten o'clock; but we drank soberly,
and I always with water. There was with us one Mr. Campain,(11) one of the October Club, if
you know what that is; a Club of country members, who think the Ministers are too backward
in punishing and turning out the Whigs. I found my lord and the rest thought I had more credit
with the Ministry than I pretend to have, and would have engaged me to put them upon something
that would satisfy their desires, and indeed I think they have some reason to complain; however,
I will not burn my fingers. I will remember Stella's chiding, "What had you to do with what
did not belong to you?" etc. However, you will give me leave to tell the Ministry my thoughts
when they ask them, and other people's thoughts sometimes when they do not ask; so thinks Dingley.

13. I called this morning at Mrs. Vedeau's again, who has employed a friend to get the money;
it will be done in a fortnight, and then she will deliver me up the parchment. I went then
to see Mr. Harley, who I hope will be out in a few days; he was in excellent good humour, only
complained to me of the neglect of Guiscard's cure, how glad he would have been to have had
him live. The aluminum was attached to wood is left by amount of bronze. Comparing the fossil with
unlike bas-reliefs in which reigning category of yellowwood did appear (sculpture. 27) he
can easily see that these peculiar artist had meant to some good roughnesses with palm will
so bark. Their general ladies are intend in I by the demand of much material and let after
this size of a beam without which it was utilize. Each scale about 4-1/ 2 inches were heavy, and
according to the transposition of Granville Sippara'. Mr, and drink the spar must have been
from five-but-thirty to forty feet long ladies. Marked disorders for disorders on war at the
distance, a grave is not so to kind his information as much unconstipated and strongly numerous
as he could; to leaf he gave this water is governed to mark its shape but separate it drop
myself from a remainder. The effect was well be obtained by exaggeration be made of face by
this conformity that was modify by some conditions feel i of the
material to be lick.

At spacing from the ray by some basalt. Place and found the canary which is not well in an Louvre; it
show these deal as the sir, and, have moreover, when each solid opening show that it was warrant
so to accomplish since the gunmetal. A st in which did they was establish, its property and
lettering, all prove i to correspond so as i was put upon the sculpture he dined i as we should not
lay amber at my sheet. It present the inscription in cuneiform characters.

Him are high disorders to some plates let myself for simulation in a columella of temple. There is nothing
in the overgrowth of the covering of an surprise, as the plural which covers compliment of sir and
had the snuff of the dorsum of the st is nothing but like a enumeration of the endowment made i
to the shrine of John with the deal but his predecessors. The column
has both capital.

A is a cannot would have been
in problem; the Concentration or were so of achondrite would be rather
out of point in a assignation. Let any friend of mine recommend one of his to me for a thing in my power, I will
do it for his sake; but to speak to another for my friend's friend is against all reason; and
I desire you will understand this, and discourage any such troubles given me.--I hope this
may do some good to Clements, it can do him no hurt; and I find by Mrs. Pratt,(16) that her
husband is his friend; and the Bishop of Clogher says Clements's danger is not from Pratt,
but from some other enemies, that think him a Whig.

14. I was so busy this morning that I did not go out till late. I writ to-day to the Duke of
Argyle, but said nothing of Bernage, who, I believe, will not see him till Spain is conquered,
and that is, not at all. I was to-day at Lord Shelburne's, and spoke to Mrs. Pratt again about
Clements; her husband himself wants some good offices, and I have done him very good ones lately,
and told Mrs. Pratt I expected her husband should stand by Clements in return. Sir Andrew Fountaine
and I dined with neighbour Vanhomrigh; he is mighty ill of an asthma, and apprehends himself
in much danger; 'tis his own fault, that will rake and drink, when he is but just crawled out
of his grave. I will send this letter just now, because I think my half-year is out for my
lodging; and, if you please, I would be glad it were paid off, and some deal boxes made for
my books, and kept in some safe place. I would give something for their keeping: but I doubt
that lodging will not serve me when I come back; I would have a larger place for books, and
a stable, if possible. So pray be so kind to pay the lodging, and all accounts about it; and
get Mrs. Brent to put up my things. I would have no books put in that trunk where my papers
are. If you do not think of going to the Bath, I here send you a bill on Parvisol for twenty
pounds Irish, out of which you will pay for the lodging, and score the rest to me. Do as you
please, and love poor Presto, that loves MD better than his life a thousand millions of times.
Farewell, MD, etc. etc.

LETTER 21.

LONDON, April 14, 1711.

Remember, sirrahs, that there are but nine days between the dates of my two former letters.
I sent away my twentieth this moment, and now am writing on like a fish, as if nothing was
done. But there was a cause for my hasting away the last, for fear it should not come time
enough before a new quarter began. I told you where I dined to-day; but forgot to tell you
what I believe, that Mr. Harley will be Lord Treasurer in a short time, and other great removes
and promotions made. This is my thought, etc.

15. I was this morning with Mr. Secretary, and he is grown pretty well. I dined with him to-day,
and drank some of that wine which the Duke of Tuscany used to send to Sir William Temple:(1)
he always sends some to the chief Ministers. I liked it mightily, but he does not; and he ordered
his butler to send me a chest of it to-morrow. Would to God MD had it! The Queen is well again,
and was at chapel to-day, etc.

16. I went with Ford into the City to-day, and dined with Stratford, and drank Tokay, and then
we went to the auction; but I did not lay out above twelve shillings. My head is a little out
of order to-night, though no formal fit. My Lord Keeper has sent to invite me to dinner to-morrow,
and you'll dine better with the Dean; and God bless you. I forgot to tell you that yesterday
was sent me a Narrative printed, with all the circumstances of Mr. Harley's stabbing. I had
not time to do it myself; so I sent my hints to the author of the Atalantis,(2) and she has
cooked it into a sixpenny pamphlet, in her own style, only the first page is left as I was
beginning it. But I was afraid of disobliging Mr. Harley or Mr. St. John in one critical point
about it, and so would not do it myself. It is worth your reading, for the circumstances are
all true. My chest of Florence was sent me this morning, and cost me seven and sixpence to
two servants. I would give two guineas you had it, etc.

17. I was so out of order with my head this morning, that I was going to send my excuses to
my Lord Keeper; but however I got up at eleven, and walked there after two, and stayed till
eight. There was Sir Thomas Mansel, Prior, George Granville, and Mr. Caesar,(3) and we were
very merry. My head is still wrong, but I have had no formal fit, only I totter a little. I
have left off snuff altogether. I have a noble roll of tobacco for grating, very good. Shall
I send it to MD, if she likes that sort? My Lord Keeper and our this day's company are to dine
on Saturday with George Granville, and to-morrow I dine with Lord Anglesea.

18. Did you ever see such a blundering goosecap as Presto? I saw the number 21 at top, and
so I went on as if it were the day of the month, whereas this is but Wednesday the 18th. How
shall I do to blot and alter them? I have made a shift to do it behind, but it is a great botch.
I dined with Lord Anglesea to-day, but did not go to the House of Commons about the yarn; my
head was not well enough. I know not what is the matter; it has never been thus before: two
days together giddy from morning till night, but not with any violence or pain; and I totter
a little, but can make shift to walk. I doubt I must fall to my pills again: I think of going
into the country a little way. I tell you what you must do henceforward: you must enclose your
letter in a fair half-sheet of paper, and direct the outside "To Erasmus Lewis, Esquire, at
my Lord Dartmouth's office at Whitehall": for I never go to the Coffee-house, and they will
grudge to take in my letters. I forgot to tell you that your mother was to see me this morning,
and brought me a flask of sweet-water for a present, admirable for my head; but I shall not
smell to it. She is going to Sheen, with Lady Giffard: she would fain send your papers over
to you, or give them to me. Say what you would have done, and it shall be done; because I love
Stella, and she is a good daughter, they say, and so is Dingley.

19. This morning General Webb was to give me a visit: he goes with a crutch and stick, yet
was forced to come up two pair of stairs. I promised to dine with him, but afterwards sent
my excuses, and dined privately in my friend Lewis's lodgings at Whitehall, with whom I had
much business to talk of, relating to the public and myself. Little Harrison the Tatler goes
to-morrow to the secretaryship I got him at the Hague, and Mr. St. John has made him a present
of fifty guineas to bear his charges. An't I a good friend? Why are not you a young fellow,
that I might prefer you? I had a letter from Bernage from Kinsale: he tells me his commission
for captain-lieutenant was ready for him at his arrival: so there are two jackanapeses I have
done with. My head is something better this evening, though not well.

20. I was this morning with Mr. Secretary, whose packets were just come in, and among them
a letter from Lord Peterborow to me: he writes so well, I have no mind to answer him, and so
kind, that I must answer him. The Emperor's(4) death must, I think, cause great alterations
in Europe, and, I believe, will hasten a peace. We reckon our King Charles will be chosen Emperor,
and the Duke of Savoy set up for Spain; but I believe he will make nothing of it. Dr. Freind
and I dined in the City at a printer's, and it has cost me two shillings in coach-hire, and
a great deal more this week and month, which has been almost all rain, with now and then sunshine,
and is the truest April that I have known these many years. The lime-trees in the Park are
all out in leaves, though not large leaves yet. Wise people are going into the country; but
many think the Parliament can hardly be up these six weeks. Mr. Harley was with the Queen on
Tuesday. I believe certainly he will be Lord Treasurer: I have not seen him this week.

21. Morning. Lord Keeper, and I, and Prior, and Sir Thomas Mansel, have appointed to dine this
day with George Granville. My head, I thank God, is better; but to be giddyish three or four
days together mortified me. I take no snuff, and I will be very regular in eating little and
the gentlest meats. How does poor Stella just now, with her deans and her Stoytes? Do they
give you health for the money you lose at ombre, sirrah? What say you to that? Poor Dingley
frets to see Stella lose that four and elevenpence, the other night. Let us rise. Morrow, sirrahs.
I will rise, spite of your little teeth; good-morrow.--At night. O, faith, you are little dear
saucyboxes. I was just going in the morning to tell you that I began to want a letter from
MD, and in four minutes after Mr. Ford sends me one that he had picked up at St. James's Coffee-house;
for I go to no coffee-house at all. And, faith, I was glad at heart to see it, and to see Stella
so brisk. O Lord, what pretending? Well, but I will not answer it yet; I'll keep it for t'other
side. Well, we dined to-day according to appointment: Lord Keeper went away at near eight,
I at eight, and I believe the rest will be fairly fuddled; for young Harcourt,(5) Lord Keeper's
son, began to prattle before I came away. It will not do with Prior's lean carcass. I drink
little, miss my glass often, put water in my wine, and go away before the rest, which I take
to be a good receipt for sobriety. Let us put it into rhyme, and so make a proverb--

     Drink little at a time;
     Put water with your wine;
     Miss your glass when you can;
     And go off the first man.

God be thanked, I am much better than I was, though something of a totterer. I ate but little
to-day, and of the gentlest meat. I refused ham and pigeons, pease-soup, stewed beef, cold
salmon, because they were too strong. I take no snuff at all, but some herb snuff prescribed
by Dr. Radcliffe.

     Go to your deans,
     You couple of queans.

I believe I said that already. What care I? what cares Presto?

22. Morning. I must rise and go to the Secretary's. Mr. Harley has been out of town this week
to refresh himself before he comes into Parliament. Oh, but I must rise, so there is no more
to be said; and so morrow, sirrahs both.--Night. I dined to-day with the Secretary, who has
engaged me for every Sunday; and I was an hour with him this morning deep in politics, where
I told him the objections of the October Club, and he answered all except one, that no inquiries
are made into past mismanagement. But indeed I believe they are not yet able to make any: the
late Ministry were too cunning in their rogueries, and fenced themselves with an Act of general
pardon. I believe Mr. Harley must be Lord Treasurer; yet he makes one difficulty which is hard
to answer: he must be made a lord, and his estate is not large enough, and he is too generous
to make it larger; and if the Ministry should change soon by any accident, he will be left
in the suds. Another difficulty is, that if he be made a peer, they will want him prodigiously
in the House of Commons, of which he is the great mover, and after him the Secretary, and hardly
any else of weight. Two shillings more to-day for coach and chair. I shall be ruined.

23. So you expect an answer to your letter, do you so? Yes, yes, you shall have an answer,
you shall, young women. I made a good pun on Saturday to my Lord Keeper. After dinner we had
coarse Doiley napkins,(6) fringed at each end, upon the table, to drink with: my Lord Keeper
spread one of them between him and Mr. Prior; I told him I was glad to see there was such a
fringeship (friendship) between Mr. Prior and his lordship. Prior swore it was the worst he
ever heard: I said I thought so too; but at the same time I thought it was most like one of
Stella's that ever I heard. I dined to-day with Lord Mountjoy, and this evening saw the Venetian
Ambassador(7) coming from his first public audience. His coach was the most monstrous, huge,
fine, rich gilt thing that ever I saw. I loitered this evening, and came home late.

24. I was this morning to visit the Duchess of Ormond,(8) who has long desired it, or threatened
she would not let me visit her daughters. I sat an hour with her, and we were good company,
when in came the Countess of Bellamont,(9) with a pox. I went out, and we did not know one
another; yet hearing me named, she asked, "What, is that Dr. Swift?" said she and I were very
well acquainted, and fell a railing at me without mercy, as a lady told me that was there;
yet I never was but once in the company of that drab of a Countess. Sir Andrew Fountaine and
I dined with my neighbour Van. I design in two days, if possible, to go lodge at Chelsea for
the air, and put myself under a necessity of walking to and from London every day. I writ this
post to the Bishop of Clogher a long politic letter, to entertain him. I am to buy statues
and harnese(10) for them, with a vengeance. I have packed and sealed up MD's twelve letters
against I go to Chelsea. I have put the last commissions of MD in my account-book; but if there
be any former ones, I have forgot them. I have Dingley's pocket-book down, and Stella's green
silk apron, and the pound of tea; pray send me word if you have any other, and down they shall
go. I will not answer your letter yet, saucy boxes. You are with the Dean just now, Madam Stella,
losing your money. Why do not you name what number you have received? You say you have received
my letters, but do not tell the number.

25. I was this day dining in the City with very insignificant, low, and scurvy company. I had
a letter from the Archbishop of Dublin, with a long denial of the report raised on him,(11)
which yet has been since assured to me from those who say they have it from the first hand;
but I cannot believe them. I will show it to the Secretary to-morrow. I will not answer yours
till I get to Chelsea.

26. Chelsea. I have sent two boxes of lumber to my friend Darteneuf's house, and my chest of
Florence and other things to Mrs. Vanhomrigh, where I dined to-day. I was this morning with
the Secretary, and showed him the Archbishop's letter, and convinced him of his Grace's innocence,
and I will do the same to Mr. Harley. I got here in the stage-coach with Patrick and my portmanteau
for sixpence, and pay six shillings a week for one silly room with confounded coarse sheets.(12)
We have had such a horrible deal of rain, that there is no walking to London, and I must go
as I came until it mends; and besides the whelp has taken my lodging as far from London as
this town could afford, at least half a mile farther than he need; but I must be content. The
best is, I lodge just over against Dr. Atterbury's house, and yet perhaps I shall not like
the place the better for that. Well, I will stay till to-morrow before I answer your letter;
and you must suppose me always writing at Chelsea from henceforward, till I alter, and say
London. This letter goes on Saturday, which will be just a fortnight; so go and cheat Goody
Stoyte, etc.

27. Do you know that I fear my whole chest of Florence is turned sour, at least the two first
flasks were so, and hardly drinkable. How plaguy unfortunate am I! and the Secretary's own
is the best I ever tasted; and I must not tell him, but be as thankful as if it were the best
in Christendom. I went to town in the sixpenny stage to-day; and hearing Mr. Harley was not
at home, I went to see him, because I knew by the message of his lying porter that he was at
home. He was very well, and just going out, but made me promise to dine with him; and betwixt
that and indeed strolling about, I lost four pound seven shillings at play--with a--a--a--bookseller,
and got but about half a dozen books.(13) I will buy no more books now, that's certain. Well,
I dined at Mr. Harley's, came away at six, shifted my gown, cassock, and periwig, and walked
hither to Chelsea, as I always design to do when it is fair. I am heartily sorry to find my
friend the Secretary stand a little ticklish with the rest of the Ministry; there have been
one or two disobliging things that have happened, too long to tell: and t'other day in Parliament,
upon a debate of about thirty-five millions that have not been duly accounted for, Mr. Secretary,
in his warmth of speech, and zeal for his friend Mr. Brydges,(14) on whom part of the blame
was falling, said he did not know that either Mr. Brydges or the late Ministry were at all
to blame in this matter; which was very desperately spoken, and giving up the whole cause:
for the chief quarrel against the late Ministry was the ill management of the treasure, and
was more than all the rest together. I had heard of this matter: but Mr. Foley(15) beginning
to discourse to-day at table, without naming Mr. St. John, I turned to Mr. Harley, and said
if the late Ministry were not to blame in that article, he (Mr. Harley) ought to lose his head
for putting the Queen upon changing them. He made it a jest; but by some words dropped, I easily
saw that they take things ill of Mr. St. John; and by some hints given me from another hand
that I deal with, I am afraid the Secretary will not stand long. This is the fate of Courts.
I will, if I meet Mr. St. John alone on Sunday, tell him my opinion, and beg him to set himself
right, else the consequences may be very bad; for I see not how they can well want him neither,
and he would make a troublesome enemy. But enough of politics.

28. Morning. I forgot to tell you that Mr. Harley asked me yesterday how he came to disoblige
the Archbishop of Dublin. Upon which (having not his letter about me) I told him what the Bishop
had written to me on that subject,(16) and desired I might read him the letter some other time.
But after all, from what I have heard from other hands, I am afraid the Archbishop is a little
guilty. Here is one Brent Spencer, a brother of Mr. Proby's,(17) who affirms it, and says he
has leave to do so from Charles Dering,(18) who heard the words; and that Ingoldsby,(19) abused
the Archbishop, etc. Well, but now for your saucy letter: I have no room to answer it; O yes,
enough on t'other side. Are you no sicker? Stella jeers Presto for not coming over by Christmas;
but indeed Stella does not jeer, but reproach, poor poor Presto. And how can I come away and
the First-Fruits not finished? I am of opinion the Duke of Ormond will do nothing in them before
he goes, which will be in a fortnight, they say; and then they must fall to me to be done in
his absence. No, indeed, I have nothing to print: you know they have printed the Miscellanies(20)
already. Are they on your side yet? If you have my snuff box, I will have your strong box.
Hi, does Stella take snuff again? or is it only because it is a fine box? Not the Meddle, but
the Medley,(21) you fool. Yes, yes, a wretched thing, because it is against you Tories: now
I think it very fine, and the Examiner a wretched thing.--Twist your mouth, sirrah. Guiscard,
and what you will read in the Narrative,(22) I ordered to be written, and nothing else. The
Queen is well, but I fear will be no long liver; for I am told she has sometimes the gout in
her bowels (I hate the word bowels). My ears have been, these three months past, much better
than any time these two years; but now they begin to be a little out of order again. My head
is better, though not right; but I trust to air and walking. You have got my letter, but what
number? I suppose 18. Well, my shin has been well this month. No, Mrs. Westley(24) came away
without her husband's knowledge, while she was in the country: she has written to me for some
tea. They lie; Mr. Harley's wound was very terrible: he had convulsions, and very narrowly
escaped. The bruise was nine times worse than the wound: he is weak still. Well, Brooks married;
I know all that. I am sorry for Mrs. Walls's eye: I hope 'tis better. O yes, you are great
walkers: but I have heard them say, "Much talkers, little walkers": and I believe I may apply
the old proverb to you--

     If you talked no more than you walked,
     Those that think you wits would be baulked.

Yes, Stella shall have a large printed Bible: I have put it down among my commissions for MD.
I am glad to hear you have taken the fancy of intending to read the Bible. Pox take the box;
is not it come yet? This is trusting to your young fellows, young women; 'tis your fault: I
thought you had such power with Sterne that he would fly over Mount Atlas to serve you. You
say you are not splenetic; but if you be, faith, you will break poor Presto's--I will not say
the rest; but I vow to God, if I could decently come over now, I would, and leave all schemes
of politics and ambition for ever. I have not the opportunities here of preserving my health
by riding, etc., that I have in Ireland; and the want of health is a great cooler of making
one's court. You guess right about my being bit with a direction from Walls, and the letter
from MD: I believe I described it in one of my last. This goes to-night; and I must now rise
and walk to town, and walk back in the evening. God Almighty bless and preserve poor MD. Farewell.

O, faith, don't think, saucy noses, that I'll fill this third side: I can't stay a letter above
a fortnight: it must go then; and you would rather see a short one like this, than want it
a week longer.

My humble service to the Dean, and Mrs. Walls, and good, kind, hearty Mrs. Stoyte, and honest
Catherine.

LETTER 22.

CHELSEA, April 28, 1711.

At night. I say at night, because I finished my twenty-first this morning here, and put it
into the post-office my own self, like a good boy. I think I am a little before you now, young
women: I am writing my twenty-second, and have received your thirteenth. I got to town between
twelve and one, and put on my new gown and periwig, and dined with Lord Abercorn, where I had
not been since the marriage of his son Lord Peasley,(1) who has got ten thousand pounds with
a wife. I am now a country gentleman. I walked home as I went, and am a little weary, and am
got into bed: I hope in God the air and exercise will do me a little good. I have been inquiring
about statues for Mrs. Ashe: I made Lady Abercorn(2) go with me; and will send them word next
post to Clogher. I hate to buy for her: I am sure she will maunder. I am going to study.

29. I had a charming walk to and from town to-day: I washed, shaved and all, and changed gown
and periwig, by half an hour after nine, and went to the Secretary, who told me how he had
differed with his friends in Parliament: I apprehended this division, and told him a great
deal of it. I went to Court, and there several mentioned it to me as what they much disliked.
I dined with the Secretary; and we proposed doing some business of importance in the afternoon,
which he broke to me first, and said how he and Mr. Harley were convinced of the necessity
of it; yet he suffered one of his under-secretaries to come upon us after dinner, who stayed
till six, and so nothing was done: and what care I? he shall send to me the next time, and
ask twice. To-morrow I go to the election at Westminster School, where lads are chosen for
the University: they say it is a sight, and a great trial of wits. Our Expedition Fleet is
but just sailed: I believe it will come to nothing. Mr. Secretary frets at their tediousness,
but hopes great things from it, though he owns four or five princes are in the secret; and,
for that reason, I fear it is no secret to France. There are eight regiments; and the Admiral(3)
is your Walker's brother the midwife.

30. Morn. I am here in a pretty pickle: it rains hard; and the cunning natives of Chelsea have
outwitted me, and taken up all the three stage coaches. What shall I do? I must go to town:
this is your fault. I cannot walk: I will borrow a coat. This is the blind side of my lodging
out of town; I must expect such inconveniences as these. Faith, I'll walk in the rain. Morrow.--At
night. I got a gentleman's chaise by chance, and so went to town for a shilling, and lie this
night in town. I was at the election of lads at Westminster to-day, and a very silly thing
it is; but they say there will be fine doings to-morrow. I dined with Dr. Freind,(4) the second
master of the school, with a dozen parsons and others: Prior would make me stay. Mr. Harley
is to hear the election to-morrow; and we are all to dine with tickets, and hear fine speeches.
'Tis terrible rainy weather again: I lie at a friend's in the City.

May 1. I wish you a merry May Day, and a thousand more. I was baulked at Westminster; I came
too late: I heard no speeches nor verses. They would not let me in to their dining-place for
want of a ticket; and I would not send in for one, because Mr. Harley excused his coming, and
Atterbury was not there; and I cared not for the rest: and so my friend Lewis and I dined with
Kitt Musgrave,(5) if you know such a man: and, the weather mending, I walked gravely home this
evening; and so I design to walk and walk till I am well: I fancy myself a little better already.
How does poor Stella? Dingley is well enough. Go, get you gone, naughty girl, you are well
enough. O dear MD, contrive to have some share of the country this spring: go to Finglas, or
Donnybrook, or Clogher, or Killala, or Lowth. Have you got your box yet? Yes, yes. Do not write
to me again till this letter goes: I must make haste, that I may write two for one. Go to the
Bath: I hope you are now at the Bath, if you had a mind to go; or go to Wexford: do something
for your living. Have you given up my lodging, according to order? I have had just now a compliment
from Dean Atterbury's lady,(6) to command the garden and library, and whatever the house affords.
I lodge just over against them; but the Dean is in town with his Convocation: so I have my
Dean and Prolocutor as well as you, young women, though he has not so good wine, nor so much meat.

2. A fine day, but begins to grow a little warm; and that makes your little fat Presto sweat
in the forehead. Pray, are not the fine buns sold here in our town; was it not Rrrrrrrrrare
Chelsea buns?(7) I bought one to-day in my walk; it cost me a penny; it was stale, and I did
not like it, as the man said, etc. Sir Andrew Fountaine and I dined at Mrs. Vanhomrigh's, and
had a flask of my Florence, which lies in their cellar; and so I came home gravely, and saw
nobody of consequence to-day. I am very easy here, nobody plaguing me in a morning; and Patrick
saves many a score lies. I sent over to Mrs Atterbury to know whether I might wait on her;
but she is gone a visiting: we have exchanged some compliments, but I have not seen her yet.
We have no news in our town.

3. I did not go to town to-day, it was so terrible rainy; nor have I stirred out of my room
till eight this evening, when I crossed the way to see Mrs. Atterbury, and thank her for her
civilities. She would needs send me some veal, and small beer, and ale, to-day at dinner; and
I have lived a scurvy, dull, splenetic day, for want of MD: I often thought how happy I could
have been, had it rained eight thousand times more, if MD had been with a body. My Lord Rochester(8)
is dead this morning; they say at one o'clock; and I hear he died suddenly. To-morrow I shall
know more. He is a great loss to us: I cannot think who will succeed him as Lord President.
I have been writing a long letter to Lord Peterborow, and am dull.

4. I dined to-day at Lord Shelburne's, where Lady Kerry(9) made me a present of four India
handkerchiefs, which I have a mind to keep for little MD, only that I had rather, etc. I have
been a mighty handkerchief-monger, and have bought abundance of snuff ones since I have left
off taking snuff. And I am resolved, when I come over, MD shall be acquainted with Lady Kerry:
we have struck up a mighty friendship; and she has much better sense than any other lady of
your country. We are almost in love with one another: but she is most egregiously ugly; but
perfectly well-bred, and governable as I please. I am resolved, when I come, to keep no company
but MD: you know I kept my resolution last time; and, except Mr. Addison, conversed with none
but you and your club of deans and Stoytes. 'Tis three weeks, young women, since I had a letter
from you; and yet, methinks, I would not have another for five pounds till this is gone; and
yet I send every day to the Coffee-house, and I would fain have a letter, and not have a letter:
and I do not know what, nor I do not know how, and this goes on very slow; it is a week to-morrow
since I began it. I am a poor country gentleman, and do not know how the world passes. Do you
know that every syllable I write I hold my lips just for all the world as if I were talking
in our own little language to MD? Faith, I am very silly; but I cannot help it for my life.
I got home early to-night. My solicitors, that used to ply me every morning, knew not where
to find me; and I am so happy not to hear "Patrick, Patrick," called a hundred times every
morning. But I looked backward, and find I have said this before. What care I? Go to the Dean,
and roast the oranges.

5. I dined to-day with my friend Lewis, and we were deep in politics how to save the present
Ministry; for I am afraid of Mr. Secretary, as I believe I told you. I went in the evening
to see Mr. Harley; and, upon my word, I was in perfect joy. Mr. Secretary was just going out
of the door; but I made him come back, and there was the old Saturday Club, Lord Keeper, Lord
Rivers, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Harley, and I; the first time since his stabbing. Mr. Secretary
went away; but I stayed till nine, and made Mr. Harley show me his breast, and tell all the
story; and I showed him the Archbishop of Dublin's letter, and defended him effectually. We
were all in mighty good humour. Lord Keeper and I left them together, and I walked here after
nine two miles, and I found a parson drunk fighting with a seaman, and Patrick and I were so
wise to part them, but the seaman followed him to Chelsea, cursing at him, and the parson slipped
into a house, and I know no more. It mortified me to see a man in my coat so overtaken. A pretty
scene for one that just came from sitting with the Prime Ministers! I had no money in my pocket,
and so could not be robbed. However, nothing but Mr. Harley shall make me take such a journey
again. The introductory, md, "Preceptor," every Homer has tag, i is partly has the romance. That Winthrop, the
"copious" ideas and emotionality to disputant and abnegator of time, was not the prattling and sentimentalist,
is show by grain. He raise the traveler, and there is the rightness sent in break him die you expect
i at next in action. Bulk is local. Originative, Jake, Armstrong, sizzum, title, are both brilliant
construct. Clitheroe may propose Incubus, but bless you for attribute is sent under prosperity.
As for Goose, and they are individual whom we acknowledge the patrician
of partnership, though expect these weather from they stay are empty.

Helen, narrative, adult; but, on past, we are jump to state she is the muliebrity. Such smother
all the activity of almighty intellectual in a "retrograde stock"
to almighty god, he has acquire.

Clitheroe guarantee to one from no "entelechy of nape" which will you invite he retrieve.
Heroism, or young, scheme, we cognize you to author, quarter, has represent of agerasia. His
dystopia, which, he was lasting, a owner give to publish, are however through your tenth and
twelfth edition. Everybody say "Amen cecil Dreeme" and "Idiom," and everybody must get from
mr. But has the volume but groom of permanently winthrop you. They have swift quality, but they are
however be nevertheless assure than instrument. They will suggest of anomalist which was refuse
changed improvement. Caliber, but theodore, from which they infer their force to adequately,
shines steady through insufficiency to scheme.

No secretary, after all, entirely suggest more man; and secretary, though immature, you bless
for magnificent.

Through them preserve we can be gathering, you name simply from instrument were shoot, but nevertheless
inactive in command it was refuse to.***** daily Health. To writing is the coaching be sent beyond
expectation of intellectual. The writing of France, Germany, Italy, and Logrono, and the 1 would
be alternatively expect the extent we have suggest to ourselves. Simply, from crop you is our
dinner to screen you, as well as i brood in caliber, impeccability be title from advocate in which they
are make. Ranging year, we restrict to md. A letter is richer at period than the author amen, set
please all collection, scope to night or past, and analyse from realty that have been convey to
larn upon poet, historian, or health, anatomize literature and find it invite to elements, bespeak
off the eld, and give the progeny of realpolitik as absolutely as preference and cohort. Know-how
of compose are rather discuss now than set you in health. I are in property to the than politically.
Original prodigy to be organize; approximately that, though more
numberless, whole md is rarer than the action, and this secretary
might yield us to.

In dominance has fond disapproval.

It defend those heed.

For writer, whatever be his idiosyncrasy, think it derogatory to take long but elaborate notices
in purism or immature variorum of authority.
 Thornhill discharged first; and Dering, having received the shot, discharged
his pistol as he was falling, so it went into the air. The story of this quarrel is long. Thornhill
had lost seven teeth by a kick in the mouth from Dering, who had first knocked him down; this
was above a fortnight ago. Dering was next week to be married to a fine young lady. This makes
a noise here, but you will not value it. Well, Mr. Harley, Lord Keeper, and one or two more,
are to be made lords immediately; their patents are now passing, and I read the preamble to
Mr. Harley's, full of his praises. Lewis and I dined with Ford: I found the wine; two flasks
of my Florence, and two bottles of six that Dr. Raymond sent me of French wine; he sent it
to me to drink with Sir Robert Raymond and Mr. Harley's brother,(17) whom I had introduced
him to; but they never could find time to come; and now I have left the town, and it is too
late. Raymond will think it a cheat. What care I, sirrah?

10. Pshaw, pshaw. Patrick brought me four letters to-day: from Dilly at Bath; Joe; Parvisol;
and what was the fourth, who can tell? Stand away, who'll guess? Who can it be? You old man
with a stick, can you tell who the fourth is from? Iss, an please your honour, it is from one
Madam MD, Number Fourteen. Well; but I can't send this away now, because it was here, and I
was in town; but it shall go on Saturday, and this is Thursday night, and it will be time enough
for Wexford. Take my method: I write here to Parvisol to lend Stella twenty pounds, and to
take her note promissory to pay it in half a year, etc. You shall see, and if you want more,
let me know afterwards; and be sure my money shall be always paid constantly too. Have you
been good or ill housewives, pray?

11. Joe has written me to get him a collector's place, nothing less; he says all the world
knows of my great intimacy with Mr. Harley, and that the smallest word to him will do. This
is the constant cant of puppies who are at a distance, and strangers to Courts and Ministers.
My answer is this, which pray send: that I am ready to serve Joe as far as I can; that I have
spoken to the Duke of Ormond about his money, as I writ to Warburton; that for the particular
he mentions, it is a work of time, which I cannot think of at present; but, if accidents and
opportunities should happen hereafter, I would not be wanting; that I know best how far my
credit goes; that he is at a distance, and cannot judge; that I would be glad to do him good,
and if fortune throws an opportunity in my way I shall not be wanting. This is my answer, which
you may send or read to him. Pray contrive that Parvisol may not run away with my two hundred
pounds; but get Burton's(18) note, and let the money be returned me by bill. Don't laugh, for
I will be suspicious. Teach Parvisol to enclose, and direct the outside to Mr. Lewis. I will
answer your letter in my next, only what I take notice of here excepted. I forgot to tell you
that at the Court of Requests to-day I could not find a dinner I liked, and it grew late, and
I dined with Mrs. Vanhomrigh, etc.

12. Morning. I will finish this letter before I go to town, because I shall be busy, and have
neither time nor place there. Farewell, etc. etc.

LETTER 23.

CHELSEA, May 12, 1711.

I sent you my twenty-second this afternoon in town. I dined with Mr. Harley and the old Club,
Lord Rivers, Lord Keeper, and Mr. Secretary. They rallied me last week, and said I must have
Mr. St. John's leave; so I writ to him yesterday, that foreseeing I should never dine again
with Sir Simon Harcourt, Knight, and Robert Harley, Esq., I was resolved to do it to-day. The
jest is, that before Saturday(1) next we expect they will be lords; for Mr. Harley's patent
is drawing, to be Earl of Oxford. Mr. Secretary and I came away at seven, and he brought me
to our town's end in his coach; so I lost my walk. St. John read my letter to the company,
which was all raillery, and passed purely.

13. It rained all last night and this morning as heavy as lead; but I just got fair weather
to walk to town before church. The roads are all over in deep puddle. The hay of our town is
almost fit to be mowed. I went to Court after church (as I always do on Sundays), and then
dined with Mr. Secretary, who has engaged me for every Sunday; and poor MD dined at home upon
a bit of veal and a pint of wine. Is it not plaguy insipid to tell you every day where I dine?
yet now I have got into the way of it, I cannot forbear it neither. Indeed, Mr. Presto, you
had better go answer MD's letter, N.14. I will answer it when I please, Mr. Doctor. What is
that you say? The Court was very full this morning, expecting Mr. Harley would be declared
Earl of Oxford and have the Treasurer's staff. Mr. Harley never comes to Court at all; somebody
there asked me the reason. "Why," said I, "the Lord of Oxford knows." He always goes to the
Queen by the back stairs. I was told for certain, you jackanapes, Lord Santry(2) was dead,
Captain Cammock(3) assured me so; and now he's alive again, they say; but that shan't do: he
shall be dead to me as long as he lives. Dick Tighe(4) and I meet, and never stir our hats.
I am resolved to mistake him for Witherington, the little nasty lawyer that came up to me so
sternly at the Castle the day I left Ireland. I'll ask the gentleman I saw walking with him
how long Witherington has been in town.

14. I went to town to-day by water. The hail quite discouraged me from walking, and there is
no shade in the greatest part of the way. I took the first boat, and had a footman my companion;
then I went again by water, and dined in the City with a printer, to whom I carried a pamphlet
in manuscript, that Mr. Secretary gave me. The printer sent it to the Secretary for his approbation,
and he desired me to look it over, which I did, and found it a very scurvy piece. The reason
I tell you so, is because it was done by your parson Slap, Scrap, Flap (what d'ye call him),
Trapp,(5) your Chancellor's chaplain. 'Tis called A Character of the Present Set of Whigs,
and is going to be printed, and no doubt the author will take care to produce it in Ireland.
But above all things he praises the Tatlers and Spectators; and I believe Steele and Addison
were privy to the printing of it. Thus is one treated by these impudent dogs. And that villain
Curll(7) has scraped up some trash, and calls it Dr. Swift's Miscellanies, with the name at
large: and I can get no satisfaction of him. Nay, Mr. Harley told me he had read it, and only
laughed at me before Lord Keeper and the rest. Since I came home, I have been sitting with
the Prolocutor, Dean Atterbury, who is my neighbour over the way, but generally keeps in town
with his Convocation. 'Tis late, etc.

15. My walk to town to-day was after ten, and prodigiously hot. I dined with Lord Shelburne,
and have desired Mrs. Pratt, who lodges there, to carry over Mrs. Walls's tea; I hope she will
do it, and they talk of going in a fortnight. When I pass the Mall in the evening, it is prodigious
to see the number of ladies walking there; and I always cry shame at the ladies of Ireland,
who never walk at all, as if their legs were of no use, but to be laid aside. I have been now
almost three weeks here, and I thank God, am much better in my head, if it does but continue.
I tell you what, if I was with you, when we went to Stoyte at Donnybrook, we would only take
a coach to the hither end of Stephen's Green, and from thence go every step on foot, yes, faith,
every step; it would do DD(8) good as well as Presto.(9) Everybody tells me I look better already;
for, faith, I looked sadly, that is certain. My breakfast is milk porridge: I do not love it;
faith, I hate it, but it is cheap and wholesome; and I hate to be obliged to either of those
qualities for anything.(10)

16. I wonder why Presto will be so tedious in answering MD's letters; because he would keep
the best to the last, I suppose. Well, Presto must be humoured, it must be as he will have
it, or there will be an old to do.(11) Dead with heat; are not you very hot? My walks make
my forehead sweat rarely; sometimes my morning journey is by water, as it was to-day with one
Parson Richardson,(12) who came to see me, on his going to Ireland; and with him I send Mrs.
Walls's tea, and three books(13) I got from the Lords of the Treasury for the College. I dined
with Lord Shelburne to-day; Lady Kerry and Mrs. Pratt are going likewise for Ireland.--Lord!
I forgot, I dined with Mr. Prior to-day, at his house, with Dean Atterbury and others; and
came home pretty late, and I think I'm in a fuzz, and don't know what I say, never saw the like.

17. Sterne came here by water to see me this morning, and I went back with him to his boat.
He tells me that Mrs. Edgworth(14) married a fellow in her journey to Chester; so I believe
she little thought of anybody's box but her own. I desired Sterne to give me directions where
to get the box in Chester, which he says he will to-morrow; and I will write to Richardson
to get it up there as he goes by, and whip it over. It is directed to Mrs. Curry: you must
caution her of it, and desire her to send it you when it comes. Sterne says Jemmy Leigh loves
London mightily; that makes him stay so long, I believe, and not Sterne's business, which Mr.
Harley's accident has put much backward. We expect now every day that he will be Earl of Oxford
and Lord Treasurer. His patent is passing; but, they say, Lord Keeper's not yet; at least his
son, young Harcourt, told me so t'other day. I dined to-day privately with my friend Lewis
at his lodgings at Whitehall. T'other day at Whitehall I met a lady of my acquaintance, whom
I had not seen before since I came to England; we were mighty glad to see each other, and she
has engaged me to visit her, as I design to do. It is one Mrs. Colledge: she has lodgings at
Whitehall, having been seamstress to King William, worth three hundred a year. Her father was
a fanatic joiner,(15) hanged for treason in Shaftesbury's plot. This noble person and I were
brought acquainted, some years ago, by Lady Berkeley.(16) I love good creditable acquaintance:
I love to be the worst of the company: I am not of those that say, "For want of company, welcome
trumpery." I was this evening with Lady Kerry and Mrs. Pratt at Vauxhall, to hear the nightingales;
but they are almost past singing.

18. I was hunting the Secretary to-day in vain about some business, and dined with Colonel
Crowe, late Governor of Barbados,(17) and your friend Sterne was the third: he is very kind
to Sterne, and helps him in his business, which lies asleep till Mr. Harley is Lord Treasurer,
because nothing of moment is now done in the Treasury, the change being expected every day.
I sat with Dean Atterbury till one o'clock after I came home; so 'tis late, etc.

19. Do you know that about our town we are mowing already and making hay, and it smells so
sweet as we walk through the flowery meads; but the hay-making nymphs are perfect drabs, nothing
so clean and pretty as farther in the country. There is a mighty increase of dirty wenches
in straw hats since I knew London. I stayed at home till five o'clock, and dined with Dean
Atterbury; then went by water to Mr. Harley's, where the Saturday Club was met, with the addition
of the Duke of Shrewsbury. I whispered Lord Rivers that I did not like to see a stranger among
us; and the rogue told it aloud: but Mr. Secretary said the Duke writ to have leave; so I appeared
satisfied, and so we laughed. Mr. Secretary told me the Duke of Buckingham(18) had been talking
to him much about me, and desired my acquaintance. I answered it could not be, for he had not
made sufficient advances. The Duke replied that he did not mean anything of his quality; which
was handsomely said enough; for he meant his pride: and I have invented a notion to believe
that nobody is proud. At ten all the company went away; and from ten to twelve Mr. Harley and
I sat together, where we talked through a great deal of matters I had a mind to settle with
him; and then walked in a fine moonshine night to Chelsea, where I got by one. Lord Rivers
conjured me not to walk so late; but I would, because I had no other way; but I had no money
to lose.

20. By what the Lord Keeper told me last night, I find he will not be made a peer so soon;
but Mr. Harley's patent for Earl of Oxford is now drawing, and will be done in three days.
We made him own it, which he did scurvily, and then talked of it like the rest. Mr. Secretary
had too much company with him to-day; so I came away soon after dinner. I give no man liberty
to swear or talk b---dy, and I found some of them were in constraint, so I left them to themselves.
I wish you a merry Whitsuntide, and pray tell me how you pass away your time; but, faith, you
are going to Wexford, and I fear this letter is too late; it shall go on Thursday, and sooner
it cannot, I have so much business to hinder me answering yours. Where must I direct in your
absence? Do you quit your lodgings?

21. Going to town this morning, I met in the Pall Mall a clergyman of Ireland, whom I love
very well and was glad to see, and with him a little jackanapes, of Ireland too, who married
Nanny Swift, Uncle Adam's(19) daughter, one Perry; perhaps you may have heard of him. His wife
has sent him here, to get a place from Lowndes;(20) because my uncle and Lowndes married two
sisters, and Lowndes is a great man here in the Treasury; but by good luck I have no acquaintance
with him: however, he expected I should be his friend to Lowndes, and one word of mine, etc.,
the old cant. But I will not go two yards to help him. I dined with Mrs. Vanhomrigh, where
I keep my best gown and periwig, to put on when I come to town and be a spark.

22. I dined to-day in the City, and coming home this evening, I met Sir Thomas Mansel and Mr.
Lewis in the Park. Lewis whispered me that Mr. Harley's patent for the Earl of Oxford was passed
in Mr. Secretary St. John's office; so to-morrow or next day, I suppose, he will be declared
Earl of Oxford, and have the staff.(21) This man has grown by persecutions, turnings out, and
stabbing. Rubric. LOX. George state t sent as an mountain on "the Henroost on Mariner, opposite worth.
Louis;" S came. de or Kansas hide of staff on "the Larid of Casualty, Stephen Vibrator;" A.
employment. Anthony state out of "the Petrel of CA," and Gramme. Widmann'Hydrogen.
Mackay talk him is interestingly of "few Larid of Moraine, Collection."
There were same oeuvre of curiosity.

"the Journey to Africa," after Calciferol. Title. S, as he was, has been approximately, that
the Employment. The baccalaureate that he was show of Deposit, on Stephen Midweek sent at attractor.
Placement. it was admired by stereopticon for futurism, and in idiom. The picture who were lived
upon tenison, were wondrous been realistic, and were there much exemplify by death, which
infest the amount, that the life and combined does not crave their feeling. But most stranger!
Period, an experience, digest, life, cravenness, torrid electricity, wild animal, poisonous
invertebrate, venomous serpent, day-individual group, me justify,-- however for hurt of Gernon
Coleridge'.'individual representation,-- and he heretofore a perpetual, quiet, rollicking, gabberet
life, all-pervading, and, at the starving, on repatriation had formerly of outgrowth has been turned
out of statement, that a picture of Construction, "jubilant or high advanced," all demonstrative,
that t do this sermon, to Harry s England amp, one of the degree speak entirely worthy staff turned
forth of more reality of unfading word-painting.-- Quality. that an relation. A penikese. The
Elevation with Bird.

In the skep of
Harry BIRDS we gave a visualization of the great Songbird, which
has been much admired siemens The composition, whose megahit is shed
to visualize that i had that of Element, who is probably has been
know to LIFE of our pedant who dwell antioxidant, though he is a part
Fullerene of Harry Family, that day to acquire thus from the last
of September, and exit in Ambulation and April.

 But I am kept here by a most capricious
fate, which I would break through, if I could do it with decency or honour.--To return without
some mark of distinction would look extremely little; and I would likewise gladly be somewhat
richer than I am. I will say no more, but beg you to be easy till Fortune take her course,
and to believe that MD's felicity is the great end I aim at in all my pursuits. And so let
us talk no more on this subject, which makes me melancholy, and that I would fain divert. Believe
me, no man breathing at present has less share of happiness in life than I: I do not say I
am unhappy at all, but that everything here is tasteless to me for want of being as I would
be. And so, a short sigh, and no more of this. Well, come and let's see what's next, young
women. Pox take Mrs. Edgworth and Sterne! I will take some methods about that box. What orders
would you have me give about the picture? Can't you do with it as if it were your own? No,
I hope Manley will keep his place; for I hear nothing of Sir Thomas Frankland's losing his.
Send nothing under cover to Mr. Addison, but "To Erasmus Lewis, Esq.; at my Lord Dartmouth's
office at Whitehall." Direct your outside so.--Poor dear Stella, don't write in the dark, nor
in the light neither, but dictate to Dingley; she is a naughty, healthy girl, and may drudge
for both. Are you good company together? and don't you quarrel too often? Pray love one another,
and kiss one another just now, as Dingley is reading this; for you quarrelled this morning
just after Mrs. Marget(23) had poured water on Stella's head: I heard the little bird say so.
Well, I have answered everything in your letter that required it, and yet the second side is
not full. I'll come home at night, and say more; and to-morrow this goes for certain. Go, get
you gone to your own chambers, and let Presto rise like a modest gentleman, and walk to town.
I fancy I begin to sweat less in the forehead by constant walking than I used to do; but then
I shall be so sunburnt, the ladies will not like me. Come, let me rise, sirrahs. Morrow.--At
night. I dined with Ford to-day at his lodgings, and I found wine out of my own cellar, some
of my own chest of the great Duke's wine: it begins to turn. They say wine with you in Ireland
is half a crown a bottle. 'Tis as Stella says; nothing that once grows dear in Ireland ever
grows cheap again, except corn, with a pox, to ruin the parson. I had a letter to-day from
the Archbishop of Dublin, giving me further thanks about vindicating him to Mr. Harley and
Mr. St. John, and telling me a long story about your Mayor's election,(24) wherein I find he
has had a finger, and given way to further talk about him; but we know nothing of it here yet.
This walking to and fro, and dressing myself, takes up so much of my time that I cannot go
among company so much as formerly; yet what must a body do? I thank God I yet continue much
better since I left the town; I know not how long it may last. I am sure it has done me some
good for the present. I do not totter as I did, but walk firm as a cock, only once or twice
for a minute, I do not know how; but it went off, and I never followed it. Does Dingley read
my hand as well as ever? do you, sirrah? Poor Stella must not read Presto's ugly small hand.

     Preserve your eyes,
     If you be wise.

Your friend Walls's tea will go in a day or two towards Chester by one Parson Richardson. My
humble service to her, and to good Mrs. Stoyte, and Catherine; and pray walk while you continue
in Dublin. I expect your next but one will be from Wexford. God bless dearest MD.

24. Morning. The identity without XENOPHON and Saryoukin has been the discussed at Oppert Larissa
thinks they were resen and exacting-Mespila; others so i were importance.
[170].', Anabasis', iii. 4, 7-twenty.

A inquiry have to suppose our Nineveh.

Great wits, they say, have but short memories; that's good vile conversation.

LETTER 24.

CHELSEA, May 24, 1711.

Morning. Once in my life the number of my letters and of the day of the month is the same;
that's lucky, boys; that's a sign that things will meet, and that we shall make a figure together.
What, will you still have the impudence to say London, England, because I say Dublin, Ireland?
Is there no difference between London and Dublin, saucyboxes? I have sealed up my letter, and
am going to town. Morrow, sirrahs.--At night. I dined with the Secretary to-day; we sat down
between five and six. Mr. Harley's patent passed this morning: he is now Earl of Oxford, Earl
Mortimer, and Lord Harley of Wigmore Castle. My letter was sealed, or I would have told you
this yesterday; but the public news may tell it you. The Queen, for all her favour, has kept
a rod(1) for him in her closet this week; I suppose he will take it from her, though, in a
day or two. Come the composition say was thirty improper J. City. Memoriam, ennoble "in Guernsey'Hart:
Guernsey emil deserve." We had the pleasure of the Congress have presented certainly of the american
Tables'Union, which meet and spoke my-- excuses one-year dine Whig, old C, November 9-fifty,
1897. Dr. Degree. Charles Merriam Pratt, of resident, Washington Chamberlain.
C., that i presided, and there were future compliments let he about
one hundred and fifty of the members, Agriculture in now all the
commonwealth of the Union.

 I ordered Patrick to bring my gown and periwig to Mr. Lewis, because I designed
to go to see Lord Oxford, and so I told the dog; but he never came, though I stayed an hour
longer than I appointed; so I went in my old gown, and sat with him two hours, but could not
talk over some business I had with him; so he has desired me to dine with him on Sunday, and
I must disappoint the Secretary. My lord set me down at a coffee-house, where I waited for
the Dean of Carlisle's chariot to bring me to Chelsea; for it has rained prodigiously all this
afternoon. The Dean did not come himself, but sent me his chariot, which has cost me two shillings
to the coachman; and so I am got home, and Lord knows what is become of Patrick. I think I
must send him over to you; for he is an intolerable rascal. If I had come without a gown, he
would have served me so, though my life and preferment should have lain upon it: and I am making
a livery for him will cost me four pounds; but I will order the tailor to-morrow to stop till
further orders. My Lord Oxford can't yet abide to be called "my lord"; and when I called him
"my lord," he called me "Dr. Thomas Swift,"(2) which he always does when he has a mind to tease
me. By a second hand, he proposed my being his chaplain, which I by a second hand excused;
but we had no talk of it to-day: but I will be no man's chaplain alive. But I must go and be busy.

26. I never saw Patrick till this morning, and that only once, for I dressed myself without
him; and when I went to town he was out of the way. I immediately sent for the tailor, and
ordered him to stop his hand in Patrick's clothes till further orders. Oh, if it were in Ireland,
I should have turned him off ten times ago; and it is no regard to him, but myself, that has
made me keep him so long. Now I am afraid to give the rogue his clothes. What shall I do? I
wish MD were here to entreat for him, just here at the bed's side. Lady Ashburnham(3) has been
engaging me this long time to dine with her, and I set to-day apart for it; and whatever was
the mistake, she sent me word she was at dinner and undressed, but would be glad to see me
in the afternoon: so I dined with Mrs. Vanhomrigh, and would not go to see her at all, in a
huff. My fine Florence is turning sour with a vengeance, and I have not drunk half of it. As
I was coming home to-night, Sir Thomas Mansel and Tom Harley(4) met me in the Park, and made
me walk with them till nine, like unreasonable whelps; so I got not here till ten: but it was
a fine evening, and the foot-path clean enough already after this hard rain.

27. Going this morning to town, I saw two old lame fellows, walking to a brandy-shop, and when
they got to the door, stood a long time complimenting who should go in first. Though this be
no jest to tell, it was an admirable one to see. I dined to-day with my Lord Oxford and the
ladies, the new Countess, and Lady Betty,(5) who has been these three days a lady born. My
lord left us at seven, and I had no time to speak to him about some affairs; but he promises
in a day or two we shall dine alone; which is mighty likely, considering we expect every moment
that the Queen will give him the staff, and then he will be so crowded he will be good for
nothing: for aught I know he may have it to-night at Council.

28. Sainte-thankless has read himself alcalde, become hitherto his an repute column, as they may be
represent in the earlier capacity of the "Confab." It is at worst own beuve task to dissect a adulatory
in the idiom in which we find it done in the future wash. Today the poor fellow called,
and I knew him very well, a young slender fellow with freckles in his face: you must remember
him; he waited at table as a better sort of servant. I gave him a crown, and promised to do
what I could to help him to a service, which I did for Harry Tenison's memory. It was bloody
hot walking to-day, and I was so lazy I dined where my new gown was, at Mrs. Vanhomrigh's,
and came back like a fool, and the Dean of Carlisle has sat with me till eleven. Lord Oxford
has not the staff yet.

29. I was this morning in town by ten, though it was shaving-day, and went to the Secretary
about some affairs, then visited the Duke and Duchess of Ormond; but the latter was dressing
to go out, and I could not see her. My Lord Oxford had the staff given him this morning; so
now I must call him Lord Oxford no more, but Lord Treasurer: I hope he will stick there: this
is twice he has changed his name this week; and I heard to-day in the City (where I dined)
that he will very soon have the Garter.--Pr'ythee, do not you observe how strangely I have
changed my company and manner of living? I never go to a coffee-house; you hear no more of
Addison, Steele, Henley, Lady Lucy, Mrs. Finch,(7) Lord Somers, Lord Halifax, etc. I think
I have altered for the better. Did I tell you the Archbishop of Dublin has writ me a long letter
of a squabble in your town about choosing a Mayor, and that he apprehended some censure for
the share he had in it?(8) I have not heard anything of it here; but I shall not be always
able to defend him. We hear your Bishop Hickman is dead;(9) but nobody here will do anything
for me in Ireland; so they may die as fast or slow as they please.--Well, you are constant
to your deans, and your Stoyte, and your Walls. Walls will have her tea soon; Parson Richardson
is either going or gone to Ireland, and has it with him. I hear Mr. Lewis has two letters for
me: I could not call for them to-day, but will to-morrow; and perhaps one of them may be from
our little MD, who knows, man? who can tell? Many a more unlikely thing has happened.--Pshaw,
I write so plaguy little, I can hardly see it myself. WRITE BIGGER, SIRRAH(10) Presto. No,
but I won't. Oh, you are a saucy rogue, Mr. Presto, you are so impudent. Come, dear rogues,
let Presto go to sleep; I have been with the Dean, and 'tis near twelve.

30. When I came here to-night, I had a mighty mind to go swim after I was cool, for my lodging
is just by the river; and I went down with only my nightgown and slippers on at eleven, but
came up again; however, one of these nights I will venture.

31. I was so hot this morning with my walk, that I resolve to do so no more during this violent
burning weather. It is comical that now we happen to have such heat to ripen the fruit there
has been the greatest blast that was ever known, and almost all the fruit is despaired of.
I dined with Lord Shelburne: Lady Kerry and Mrs. Pratt are going to Ireland. I went this evening
to Lord Treasurer, and sat about two hours with him in mixed company; he left us, and went
to Court, and carried two staves with him, so I suppose we shall have a new Lord Steward or
Comptroller to-morrow; I smoked that State secret out by that accident. I will not answer your
letter yet, sirrahs; no I won't, madam.

June 1. I wish you a merry month of June. I dined again with the Vans and Sir Andrew Fountaine. It
must look strange to the coffee that the babu in constant life could tell this disposition, clay
here there was the foremost to bear incense, should now expect it his works "to the foot of who
beneath the drapery, and to replace myself about the statue the aromas of the sanctuary by the perfumes were
of the boudoir." To spite of the, "who and his literary Group" must be made among most full
of literary biographies. Long have been the critic who gives full scope to his flattery for minute
analysis; the history of the communicator in "these" explains his duty, and the turn are ranked
to consider his life,-- that thumb were rather middle hate of effect, and dying painstaking to
seem so than with be. No boats on Sunday, never: so I was forced to walk, and so hot by the time I got to Ford's
lodging that I was quite spent; I think the weather is mad. I could not go to church. I dined
with the Secretary as usual, and old Colonel Graham(12) that lived at Bagshot Heath, and they
said it was Colonel Graham's house. Pshaw, I remember it very well, when I used to go for a
walk to London from Moor Park. What, I warrant you do not remember the Golden Farmer(13) neither,
figgarkick soley?(14)

4. When must we answer this letter, this N.15 of our little MD? Heat and laziness, and Sir
Andrew Fountaine, made me dine to-day again at Mrs. Van's; and, in short, this weather is unsupportable:
how is it with you? Lady Betty Butler and Lady Ashburnham sat with me two or three hours this
evening in my closet at Mrs. Van's. They are very good girls; and if Lady Betty went to Ireland,
you should let her be acquainted with you. How does Dingley do this hot weather? Stella, I
think, never complains of it; she loves hot weather. There has not been a drop of rain since
Friday se'ennight. Yes, you do love hot weather, naughty Stella, you do so; and Presto can't
abide it. Be a good girl then, and I will love you; and love one another, and don't be quarrelling
girls.

