My former sympathies have cooled down very considerably. To Sniatynski I have taken a dislike
which no reasoning on my part can overcome. Sniatynski has many grand qualities and is pleasantly
conscious of them, which gives him, as painters express it, a certain mannerism. I suppose
it is exceedingly rare that a man who sees that his individual characteristics impress people
favorably does not fall in love with his own type, and end by exaggerating it. Sniatynski consequently
has grown artificial, and for the sake of the pose sacrifices his innate delicacy; as in case
of the abrupt telegram he sent to Cracow, after his mission with Aniela had failed,--his advice
to travel, which I should have done without it,--and I received another letter from him at
Christiania soon after Aniela's wedding, written in a friendly spirit, but very abrupt and
artificial. I might give its substance as follows: "Panna Aniela is now Pani Kromitzka,--the
thing is done; I am sorry for you; do not think the bottom is falling out of the universe;
there are other things in the world of more importance, the deuce take it. Norway must be splendid
just now. Come back soon and set to work. Good-by," and so forth. I do not repeat it word for
word, but such was the gist of the letter. It impressed me unpleasantly, first because I had
not asked Sniatynski to lend me his yard-measure to measure my sorrow with; secondly, I had
thought him a sensible man, and supposed he understood that his "more important things" are
merely empty words unless they imply feelings and inclinations that existed before. I wanted
to write to him there and then and ask him to release me from his spiritual tutelage, but thinking
better of it did not answer at all,--I fancy that is the easiest way of breaking off a correspondence.
Entering more minutely into the matter, I find that neither his telegram nor his letter have
caused my dislike. Properly speaking, I cannot forgive him that for which I ought to feel grateful,--his
mediation between me and Aniela. I myself implored him to undertake it, but exactly because
I implored him, entrusted him with my fate, confessed to him my weaknesses, and made him in
a way my protector, and because the humiliation and sorrow which overwhelmed me passed through
his hands,--this, perhaps, explains my dislike towards him. I felt angry with myself, and angry
with Sniatynski as having a part in it. It is unjust, I know, but I cannot help it, and my
friendship for him has burned out like a candle.

Besides, I have never been quick in forming ties of friendship. With Sniatynski my relations
were closer than with anybody else, perhaps because we lived each of us in a different part
of Europe. I had no other friends. I belong in general to the class of persons called singles.
I remember there was a time when I considered this a sign of strength. In the animal world,
for instance, the weak ones mostly cling together, and those whom nature has endowed with powerful
claws and teeth go single, because they suffice unto themselves. This principle can be applied
to human beings only in exceptional cases. Incapacity for friendship proves mostly dryness
of heart, not strength of character. As to myself, the cause of it was a certain shyness and
sensitiveness. My heart is like that plant which closes its leaves at the slightest touch.
That I never formed ties of friendship with a woman is a different thing altogether. I had
a desire for friendship in regard to those from whom I expected more. I feigned it sometimes,
as the fox makes believe to be dead in order to secure the rooks. It does not follow that I
disbelieve in friendship between man and woman.