    1745. And whereas the making and raising of mill dams, and
    stone-stops, or hedges for catching of fish, is a great obstruction
    to the navigation of the said rivers [James and Appomattox]: Be it
    further enacted by the authority aforesaid, That all mill dams,
    stone-stops, and hedges, already made across either of the said
    rivers, where they are navigable, shall be thrown down and
    destroyed by the person or persons who made the same....

Like most hastily framed and passed laws this one proved unsatisfactory and a second one, with
more detailed provisions was passed. Hening records it:

    1762. Whereas the act of assembly made in the first year of his
    present Majesty's reign [1761], entitled, an act to oblige the
    owners of mills, hedges, or stone-stops, on sundry rivers therein
    mentioned, to make openings or slopes therein for the passage of
    fish, has been found defective, and not to answer the purposes for
    which it was intended, and it is therefore necessary that the same
    should be amended: Be it therefore enacted by the Lieutenant
    Governor, Council and Burgesses, of this present General Assembly,
    and it is hereby enacted by the authority of the same, That the
    owner or proprietor of all and every mill, hedge, or stone-stop, on
    either of the rivers Nottoway and Meherrin, shall in the space of
    nine months from and after the passing of this act, make an opening
    or slope in their respective mill-dams, hedges, or stops, in that
    part of the same where there shall happen to be the deepest water,
    which shall be in width at least ten feet in the clear, in length
    at least three times the height of the dam, and that the bottoms
    and sides thereof shall be planked, and that the sides shall be at
    least fourteen inches deep, so as to admit a current of water
    through the same twelve inches deep, which shall be kept open from
    the tenth day of February to the last day of May in every year....
    And be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, That if any
    such owner or proprietor shall neglect or refuse so to do, within
    the time aforesaid, the person so offending shall forfeit and pay
    the sum of five pounds of tobacco for every day he or they shall so
    neglect or refuse....

Still the fundamental problem was not solved; fish were not by-passing the remaining obstructions
in sufficient quantity to maintain the expected harvest. After various amendments and additions
this explicit definition of a fishway or slope was enacted into law in 1771:

    That a gap be cut in the top of the dam contiguous to the deepest
    part of the water below the dam, in which shall be set a slope ten
    feet wide, and so deep that the water may run through it 18 inches
    before it will through the waste, or over the dam, that the
    direction of the said slope be so, as with a perpendicular to be
    dropped from the top of the dam, will form an angle of at least 75
    degrees, and to continue in that direction to the bottom of the
    river, below the dam, to be planked up the sides 2 feet high; that
    there be pits or basins built in the bottom, at 8 feet distance,
    the width of the said slope, and to be 12 inches deep, and that the
    whole be tight and strong; which said slope shall be kept open from
    the 10th day of February to the last day of May, annually, and any
    owner not complying to forfeit 5 pounds of tobacco a day.

The effort was of little avail. Before many dams could be so laboriously modified the Revolutionary
War arrived to obscure placid matters like fish conservation.

The diaries of the 18th Century Virginia planters abound with references to seafoods. Most
of them lived either on or within easy distance of Tidewater. Most of them had nets and other
fishing implements of their own and crews among the slaves to work them. Whenever their needs
required, an expedition was made. Perhaps there was a season of bountiful entertaining in prospect.
The seine would be taken to a likely spot and hauled ashore. Or a boat would go out and load
up with oysters. The fish had to be eaten right away or salted down. But oysters stored in
a dark cellar, especially in cool weather, would keep for weeks if moistened from time to time.

One diarist, James Gordon, lived near the Rappahannock river in a section affording a variety
of seafoods. Note these typical entries:

    Sept. 20, 1759. Fine weather. Went in the afternoon and drew the
    seine. Had very agreeable diversion and got great plenty of fine
    fish....

    Sept. 26. Went with my wife in the evening to draw the seine. Got
    about sixty greenfish and a few other sorts.

    Sept. 28. Sent in the morning to have the seine drawn. They made
    several hauls and got good fish, viz: three drum, one of them
    large, trouts, greenfish, etc....

    Oct. 6. Went with my wife to see the seine drawn. We dined very
    agreeably on a point on fish and oysters....

    Jan. 22,--Bought about 70 gallons of rum. Got fine oysters there.

    Feb. 12. Went on board the New England man and bought some pots,
    axes and mackerel.

    Feb. 22. Drew the seine and got 125 fine rock and some shad.

    July 14. Drew the seine today and got some fine rock.

    Feb. 9, 1760. Went with my wife and Mr. Criswell to draw the seine.
    We met in Eyck's Creek a school of rock--brought up 260. Some very
    large; the finest haul I ever saw. Sent many of them to our
    neighbors.

The term "greenfish" is unknown among Virginia Tidewater fishermen. Here again we have a British
name brought into Virginia by a colonist not long removed from that country. There "greenfish"
is applied to the bluefish, of which there were and are at times plenty in the Rappahannock river.

Another diarist, who lived only a few miles away from Gordon, also on the Rappahannock river,
was Landon Carter, son of the famed Robert, or "King," Carter of Corotoman in Lancaster County.
There is no doubt about it: he was an oyster lover. He not only knew a way to hold oysters
over an extended period--one wishes one knew what it was--but he had the courage and originality
to eat them in July, contrary to a widely respected superstition:

    Jan. 14, 1770. My annual entertainment began on Monday, the 8th,
    and held till Wednesday night, when, except one individual or two
    that retired sooner, things pleased me much, and therefore, I will
    conclude they gave the same satisfaction to others.

    The oysters lasted till the third day of the feast, which to be
    sure, proves that the methods of keeping them is good, although
    much disputed by others.

    July, 1776. Last night my cart came up from John E. Beale for iron
    pots to make salt out of the bay water, which cart brought me eight
    bushels oysters. I ordered them for family and immediate use. As we
    are obliged to wash the salt we had of Col. Tayloe, I have ordered
    that washing be carried into the vault and every oyster dipped into
    it over all and then laid down on the floor again.... Out of the
    eight bushels oysters I had six pickled and two bushels for
    dressing. But I was asked why Beale sent oysters up in July. I
    answered it was my orders. Who would eat oysters in July said the
    mighty man; and the very day showed he not only could eat them but
    did it in every shape, raw, stewed, caked in fritters and pickled.

George Washington, too, was an oyster fancier as this note to his New York friend George Taylor
shows:

