In front of the house was a bit of ground enclosed by a hedge of stones; and now as Simon stood
in the recess a guest appeared.

“Reulah!” he exclaimed, “the Lord be with you.”

And Reulah answering, as etiquette required, “Unto you be peace, and to your house be peace,
and unto all you have be peace,” the two friends clasped hands raised them as though to kiss
them, then each withdrawing kissed his own hand, and struck it on his forehead.

Singularly enough, host and guest looked much alike. Simon had the appearance of one conscious
of and strong in his own rectitude, while Reulah seemed humbler and more effaced. Otherwise
there was not a pin to choose between them.

To Simon’s face had come an expression of perplexity in which there was zeal.

“I was thinking, Reulah,” he announced, “of the rabbi who is to break bread with us to-day.
His teaching does not comfort me.”

Reulah was unlatching his shoes. “Nor me,” he interjected.

“On questions of purity and impurity he seems unscrupulously negligent. I have heard that he
is a glutton and a wine-bibber. I have heard that he despises the washing of the hands.”

“Whoso does,” Reulah threw back, “will be rooted out of the world.”

Simon nodded; a smile of protracted amiability hovered in the corners of his mouth. For a moment
he played with his beard.

“I think,” he added, “that he will find here food in plenty, and counsel as well.”

Reulah closed his eyes benignly, and Simon, in a falsetto which he affected when he desired
to impress, continued in gentle menace:

“But I have certain questions to put to him. Whether water from an unclean vessel defiles that
which is clean. Whether the flesh of a dead body alone defiles, or the skin and bones as well.
I want to see how he will answer that. Then I may ask his opinion on points of the ritual.
Should the incense be lighted before the high-priest appears or as he does so. Is or is not
the Sabbath broken by the killing of the Paschal lamb? Why is it lawful to take tithe of corn
and wine and oil, and not of anise, cummin, and peppers? In swearing by the Temple, should
one not first swear by the gold on the Temple? and in swearing by the altar, should one or
should one not first swear by the sacrifices on it? These things, since he preaches, he must
know. If he does not——”

And Simon looked at his friend as who should say: What is there wanting in me?

“If I may be taught another duty I will observe it,” said Reulah, sweetly.

At this evidence of meekness Simon grunted. Two other guests were approaching. On the edges
of their tallîth were tassels made of four threads which had been drawn through an eyelet and
doubled to make eight. Seven of these threads were of equal length, but the eighth was longer,
and, twisted into five knots, represented the five books of the Law. The right hand on the
left breast, they saluted their host, and placing in turn a hand under his beard, they kissed
it. A buzz of inquiries followed, interrupted by the coming and embracing of newer guests,
the unloosing of sandals, the washing of feet.

As they assembled, one drew Simon aside and whispered importantly. Simon’s eyes dilated, astonishment
lifted him, visibly, like a lash, and his hands trembled above his head.

“Have you heard,” he exclaimed to the others—“have you heard that the Nazarene whom I invited
here, and who pretends to be a prophet, allowed his followers to pluck corn on the Sabbath,
to thresh it even, and defended and approved their violation of the Law? Have you heard it?
Is it true?”

Reulah quaked as one stricken by palsy. “On the Sabbath!” he moaned. “On the Sabbath! Why,
I would not send a message on Wednesday, lest perchance it should be delivered on the Sabbath
day. Surely it cannot be.”

But on that point the others were certain. They were all aware of the scandal; one had been
an eye-witness, another had heard the Nazarene assert that he was “Lord of the Day.”

“This is monstrous!” Simon cried.

“He declared,” the eye-witness continued, “that the Sabbath was made for man, and not man for
the Sabbath.”

“It is monstrous!” Simon repeated. “The command to do no manner of work is absolute and emphatic.
The killing of a flea on the Sabbath is as heinous as the butchering of a bullock. The preservation
of life itself is inhibited. Moses had the son of Shelomith stoned to death for gathering sticks
on it. Shammai occupied six days of the week in thinking how he could best observe it. It is
unlawful to wear a false tooth on the Sabbath, and if a tooth ache it is unlawful to rinse
the mouth with vinegar.”

“Yet,” objected Reulah, “it is lawful to hold the vinegar in the mouth provided you swallow
it afterward.”

No one paid any attention to him. Simon’s indignation increased. Of the thirty-nine Abhôth
he quoted twelve; he showed that the Nazarene had violated each one of these prohibitions against
labor; he showed, too, that by his subsequent speech and bearing he had practically scoffed
at the Toldôth, at the synagogue which had drawn it up as well.

“If the Sadducees were not in power, Jerusalem should hear of this. As it is——”

Whatever resolution he may have intended to express remained unuttered. A silence fell upon
his lips; his guests drew back. At the step stood the Nazarene, behind him his treasurer, Judas
of Kerioth. For a second only Jesus hesitated. He stooped, undid his shoes, and moved to where
Simon stood. The latter bowed constrainedly.

“Master,” he said, “we awaited you.”

At this his friends retreated into the little room. Reulah reached the middle seat of the central
mat first and held it, his nostrils quivering at the envy of the others.

Preceded by their host, Jesus and Judas found places near together, and, the usual ablutions
performed, the customary prayers recited, lay, the upper part of the body supported by the
left arm, the head raised, the limbs outstretched.

On the stools were dishes of stewed lentils, milk, and cakes of mashed locusts. Reulah ate
with the tips of his lips, greedily, like a goat. Judas, too, ate with an air of hunger. The
Master broke bread absently, his thoughts on other things. These thoughts Simon interrupted.

“Rabbi”—and to his wide mouth came the sneer of one propounding a riddle already solved—“it
is not meet, is it, to thresh on the Sabbath day? Yet since you permit your followers to do
so, how are we to distinguish between what is lawful and what is not?”

The Master raised his eyes. The dawn was in them, high noon as well.

“Show yourself a tried money-changer. Choose that which is good metal, reject that which is bad.”

Simon blinked as at a sudden light.

“But,” he persisted, “in seeking to observe the Law, there is not a jot or tittle in it that
can be rejected.”

With an acquiescence that was both vague and melancholy, Jesus looked the Pharisee in the face.

“Seek those things that are great, and little things will be added unto you——”

He would have said more, perhaps, but a woman who had entered from the recess approached circuitously,
and kneeling beside him let a tear, long as a pearl, fall upon his unsandalled feet.

Judas’ heart bounded; he glared at her, his eyes dilating like a leopard preparing to spring.
At once he was back in the circus, gazing into the perils and the splendors of a woman’s face,
telling himself with reiterated insistence that to hold her to him would be the birthday of
his life; and here, within reach of his hand, was she whom in the din of the chariots he had
recognized as the one woman in all the world, and who for one moment the day before had lain
unconscious in his arms.

Reulah sat motionless, his mouth agape, a finger extended. “The paramour of Pandera,” he stammered
at last; and lowering his eyes, he looked at her covetously from beneath the lids.

Simon, too, sat motionless. There was rage in his expression, hate even—that hatred which the
beautiful excites in the base. Time and again he had seen her; she was a byword with him; from
the height of her residence she looked down on his mean gray walls; her luxury had been an
insult to his abstinence; and with that zest which a small nature takes in the humiliation
of its superior, he determined, in spite of her manifest abjection, to humiliate her still more.

“If this man,” he confided to his neighbor, “has in him anything of that which goes to the
making of a prophet, he will divine what manner of woman she is. If he does not, I will denounce
them both.” And nourishing his hate he waited yet a while.

The Master seemed depressed. The great secret which in all the world he alone possessed may
have weighed with him. But he turned to Mary and looked at her. As he looked she bent yet lower.
The marvel of her hair was unconfined; it fell about her in tangling streams of gold and flame,
while on his feet there fell from her tears such as no woman ever shed before. In the era of
primitive hospitality the daughters of kings had not disdained to unlatch the sandals of their
fathers’ guests; but now, at the feet of Mercy, for the first time Repentance knelt. And still
the tears continued, unstanched and undetained. Grief, something keener still perhaps, had
claimed her as its own. She bent lower. Then Misery looked up at Compassion.

The Master stretched his hand. For a moment it rested on her head. She quivered and clutched
at her throat; and as he withdrew that hand, in which all panaceas were, from her gown she
took a little box, opened it, and dropping the contents where the tears had fallen, with a
sudden movement she caught her hair and poured its lava on his feet.

An aroma of beckoning oases filled the small room, passed into the recess, mounted to the roof,
pervaded and penetrated it, and escaped to the sky above.

And still she wept. Judas no longer saw her tears, he heard them. They fell swiftly one after
another, like the ripple of the rain. A sob broke from her, but in it was something which foretokened
peace, the sob which comes to those who have conceived a despairing hope, and suddenly intercept
its fulfilment. Her hands trembled; the little box fell from her and broke. The noise it made
exorcised the silence.

The Master turned to his host. “I have a word to say to you.”

Simon stroked his beard and bowed.

“There was once a man who had two debtors. One owed him five hundred pence, the other fifty.
Both were poor, and because of their poverty the debt of each he forgave.”

For an instant Jesus paused and seemed to muse; then, with that indulgence which was to illuminate
the world, “Tell me, Simon,” he inquired, “which was the more grateful?”

Simon assumed an air of perplexity, and glanced cunningly from one guest to another. Presently
he laughed outright.

“Why, the one who owed the most, of course.”

Reulah suppressed a giggle. By the expression of the others it was patent that to them also
the jest appealed. Only Judas did not seem to have heard; he sat bolt upright, fumbling Mary
with his violent eyes.

The Master made a gesture of assent, and turned to where Mary crouched. She was staring at
him with that look which the magnetized share with animals.

“You see her?”

Straightening himself, he leaned on his elbow and scrutinized his host.

“Simon, I am your guest. When I entered here there was no kiss to greet me, there was no oil
for my head, no water for my feet. But this woman whom you despise has not ceased to embrace
them. She has washed them with her tears, anointed them with nard, and dried them with her
hair. Her sins, it may be, are many, but, Simon, they are forgiven——”

Simon, Reulah, the others, muttered querulously. To forgive sins was indeed an attribute which
no one, save the Eternal, could arrogate to himself.

“—for she has loved much.”

And turning again to Mary, who still crouched at his side, he added:

“Your sins are forgiven. Go now, and in peace.”

But the fierce surprise of the Pharisees was not to be shocked into silence. Reulah showed
his teeth; they were pointed and treacherous as a jackal’s. Simon loudly asserted disapproval
and wonder too.

“I am amazed——” he began.

The Master checked him:

“The beginning of truth is amazement. Wonder, then, at what you see; for he that wonders shall
reign, and he that reigns shall rest.”

The music of his voice heightened the beauty of the speech. On Mary it fell and rested as had
the touch of his hand.

“Messiah, my Lord!” she cried. “In your breast is the future, in your heart the confidence
of God. Let me but tell you. There are those that live whose lives are passed; the tombs do
not hold all of those that are dead. I was dead; you brought me to life. I had no conscience;
you gave me one, for I was dead,” she insisted. “And yet,” she added, with a little moan, so
human, so sincere, that it might have stirred a Cæsar, let alone a Christ, “not wholly dead.
No, no, dear Lord, not wholly dead.”

Again her tears gushed forth, profuser and more abundant than before; her frail body shook
with sobs, her fingers intertwined.

“Not wholly dead,” she kept repeating. “No, no, not wholly dead.”

Jesus touched his treasurer.

“She is not herself. Lead her away; see her to her home.” And that the others might hear, and
profit as well, he added, in a higher key, “Deference to a woman is always due.”

And to those words, which were to found chivalry and banish the boor, Judas led Mary from the room.

                               CHAPTER VI.

                                   VI.

“Are you better?”

The road that skirted the lake had branched to the left, and there an easy ascent led to the
hill beyond. On both sides were carpets of flowers and of green, and slender larches that held
their arms and hid the sky. Above, an eagle circled, and on the lake a sail flapped idly.

“Yes, I am better,” Mary answered.

From her eyes the perils had passed, but the splendors remained, accentuated now by vistas
visible only to herself. The antimony, too, with which she darkened them had gone, and with
it the alkanet she had used on her cheeks. Her dress was olive, and, contrary to custom, her
head uncovered.

“You are not strong, perhaps?”

As Judas spoke, he thought of the episode in the synagogue, and wished her again unconscious
in his arms.

“I have been so weak,” she murmured. And after a moment she added: “I am tired; let me sit awhile.”

The carpet of flowers and of green invited, and presently Judas dropped at her side. About
his waist a linen girdle had been wound many times; from it a bag of lynx-skin hung. The white
garments, the ample turban that he wore, were those of ordinary life, but in his bearing was
just that evanescent charm which now and then the Oriental possesses—the subtlety that subjugates
and does not last.

“But you must be strong; we need your strength.”

Mary turned to him wonderingly.

“Yes,” he repeated, “we need your strength. Johanna has joined us, as you know. Susannah too.
They do what they can; but we need others—we need you.”

“Do you mean——”

Something had tapped at her heart, something which was both joy and dread, and she hesitated,
fearing that the possibility which Judas suggested was unreal, that she had not heard his words
aright.