Few public men of to-day have shown a finer combination of right feeling and clear thinking
about these principles, with a gift for the pithy expression of them, than has Governor Calvin
Coolidge. It was an accurate phrase that President Meiklejohn used when, in conferring the
degree of Doctor of Laws on him at Amherst College last June, he complimented him on teaching
the lesson of "adequate brevity."

His speeches and messages abound in evidences of this gift, but in the main the speeches are
not easily accessible. It has seemed to some of Governor Coolidge's admirers, as it has to
the publishers of this little volume, that a real public service might be rendered by making
a careful selection from the best of the speeches and issuing them in an attractive and convenient
form. With his permission this has been done, and it is hoped that many readers will welcome
the book in this time of special need of inspiring and steadying influences.

It is a time when all men should realize that, in the words of Governor Coolidge himself, "Laws
must rest on the eternal foundations of righteousness"; that "Industry, thrift, character are
not conferred by act or resolve. Government cannot relieve from toil." It is a time when we
must "have faith in Massachusetts. We need a broader, firmer, deeper faith in the people,--a
faith that men desire to do right, that the Commonwealth is founded upon a righteousness which
will endure."

THE EDITORS

Boston, September, 1919

NOTE TO SECOND EDITION

In the issue of a second edition of this collection of Governor Coolidge's speeches and messages,
the opportunity has been taken to add a proclamation and three recently delivered addresses,
which bring the volume practically up to the date of publication.

Boston, October, 1919

  The Commonwealth of Massachusetts.

  By His Excellency

  CALVIN COOLIDGE

  GOVERNOR

  A PROCLAMATION

Massachusetts has many glories. The last one she would wish to surrender is the glory of the
men who have served her in war. While such devotion lives the Commonwealth is secure. Whatever
dangers may threaten from within or without she can view them calmly. Turning to her veterans
she can say "These are our defenders. They are invincible. In them is our safety."

War is the rule of force. Peace is the reign of law. When Massachusetts was settled the Pilgrims
first dedicated themselves to a reign of law. When they set foot on Plymouth Rock they brought
the Mayflower Compact, in which, calling on the Creator to witness, they agreed with each other
to make just laws and render due submission and obedience. The date of that American document
was written November 11, 1620.

After more than five years of the bitterest war in human experience, the last great stronghold
of force, surrendering to the demands of America and her allies, agreed to cast aside the sword
and live under the law. The date of that world document was written November 11, 1918.

Now, therefore, in grateful commemoration of the unsurpassed deeds of heroism performed by
the service men of Massachusetts, of the sacrifice of her people, sometimes greater than life
itself, of the service rendered by every war charity and organization, to honor those who bore
arms, to recognize those who supported the government, in accordance with the law of the current
year

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 1919

is set apart as a holiday for general observance and celebration of the home coming of Massachusetts
soldiers, sailors and marines. In that welcome may we dedicate ourselves to a continued support
of the cause for which they freely offered life, that there may be wiped away everywhere the
burden of, injustice and every attempt to rule by force, and that there may be ushered in a
reign of law, that will ease the weak of their great burdens, and leave the strong, unhampered
by the opposition of evil men, the opportunity to exert their whole energy for the welfare
of their fellow men. Let war and all force end, and peace and all law reign.

GIVEN at the Executive Chamber, in Boston, this twenty-eighth day of October, in the year of
our Lord one thousand nine hundred and nineteen, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the one hundred and forty-fourth.

By His Excellency the Governor.

Secretary of the Commonwealth.

God Save the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.

CONTENTS

        I. To the State Senate on Being Elected its President,
           January 7, 1914
       II. Amherst College Alumni Association, Boston, February 4, 1916
      III. Brockton Chamber of Commerce, April 11, 1916
       IV. At the Home of Daniel Webster, Marshfield, July 4, 1916
        V. Riverside, August 28, 1916
       VI. At the Home of Augustus P. Gardner, Hamilton, September, 1916
      VII. Lafayette Banquet, Fall River, September 4, 1913
     VIII. Norfolk Republican Club, Boston, October 9, 1916
       IX. Public Meeting on the High Cost of Living, Faneuil Hall,
           December 9, 1916
        X. One Hundredth Anniversary Dinner of the Provident Institution
           for Savings, December 13, 1916
       XI. Associated Industries Dinner, Boston, December 15, 1916
      XII. On the Nature of Politics
     XIII. Tremont Temple, November 3, 1917
      XIV. Dedication of Town-House, Weston, November 27, 1917
       XV. Amherst Alumni Dinner, Springfield, March 15, 1918
      XVI. Message for the Boston Post, April 22, 1918
     XVII. Roxbury Historical Society, Bunker Hill Day, June 17, 1918
    XVIII. Fairhaven, July 4, 1918
      XIX. Somerville Republican City Committee, August 7, 1918
       XX. Written for the Sunday Advertiser and American,
           September 1, 1918
      XXI. Essex County Club, Lynnfield, September 14, 1918
     XXII. Tremont Temple, November 2, 1918
    XXIII. Faneuil Hall, November 4, 1918
     XXIV. From Inaugural Address as Governor, January 2, 1919
      XXV. Statement on the Death of Theodore Roosevelt
     XXVI. Lincoln Day Proclamation, January 30, 1919
    XXVII. Introducing Henry Cabot Lodge and A. Lawrence Lowell at the
           Debate on the League of Nations, Symphony Hall, March 19, 1919
   XXVIII. Veto of Salary Increase
     XXIX. Flag Day Proclamation, May 26, 1919
      XXX. Amherst College Commencement, June 18, 1919
     XXXI. Harvard University Commencement, June 19, 1919
    XXXII. Plymouth, Labor Day, September 1, 1919
   XXXIII. Westfield, September 3, 1919
    XXXIV. A Proclamation, September 11, 1919
     XXXV. An Order to the Police Commissioner of Boston,
           September 11, 1919
    XXXVI. A Telegram to Samuel Gompers, September 14, 1919
   XXXVII. A Proclamation, September 24, 1919
  XXXVIII. Holy Cross College, June 25, 1919
    XXXIX. Republican State Convention, Tremont Temple, October 4, 1919
       XL. Williams College, October 17, 1919
      XLI. Concerning Teachers' Salaries, October 29, 1919
     XLII. Statement to the Press, Election Day, November 4, 1919
    XLIII. Speech at Tremont Temple, Saturday, November 1, 1919, 8 P.M.

HAVE FAITH

IN

MASSACHUSETTS

I

TO THE STATE SENATE ON BEING ELECTED ITS PRESIDENT

JANUARY 7, 1914

Honorable Senators:--I thank you--with gratitude for the high honor given, with appreciation
for the solemn obligations assumed--I thank you.

This Commonwealth is one. We are all members of one body. The welfare of the weakest and the
welfare of the most powerful are inseparably bound together. Industry cannot flourish if labor
languish. Transportation cannot prosper if manufactures decline. The general welfare cannot
be provided for in any one act, but it is well to remember that the benefit of one is the benefit
of all, and the neglect of one is the neglect of all. The suspension of one man's dividends
is the suspension of another man's pay envelope.

Men do not make laws. They do but discover them. Laws must be justified by something more than
the will of the majority. They must rest on the eternal foundation of righteousness. That state
is most fortunate in its form of government which has the aptest instruments for the discovery
of laws. The latest, most modern, and nearest perfect system that statesmanship has devised
is representative government. Its weakness is the weakness of us imperfect human beings who
administer it. Its strength is that even such administration secures to the people more blessings
than any other system ever produced. No nation has discarded it and retained liberty. Representative
government must be preserved.

Courts are established, not to determine the popularity of a cause, but to adjudicate and enforce
rights. No litigant should be required to submit his case to the hazard and expense of a political
campaign. No judge should be required to seek or receive political rewards. The courts of Massachusetts
are known and honored wherever men love justice. Let their glory suffer no diminution at our
hands. The electorate and judiciary cannot combine. A hearing means a hearing. When the trial
of causes goes outside the court-room, Anglo-Saxon constitutional government ends.

The people cannot look to legislation generally for success. It can provide no substitute for
the rewards of service. It can, of course, care for the defective and recognize distinguished
merit. The normal must care for themselves. Self-government means self-support.

Man is born into the universe with a personality that is his own. He has a right that is founded
upon the constitution of the universe to have property that is his own. Ultimately, property
rights and personal rights are the same thing. The one cannot be preserved if the other be
violated. Each man is entitled to his rights and the rewards of his service be they never so
large or never so small.

History reveals no civilized people among whom there were not a highly educated class, and
large aggregations of wealth, represented usually by the clergy and the nobility. Inspiration
has always come from above. Diffusion of learning has come down from the university to the
common school--the kindergarten is last. No one would now expect to aid the common school by
abolishing higher education.

It may be that the diffusion of wealth works in an analogous way. As the little red schoolhouse
is builded in the college, it may be that the fostering and protection of large aggregations
of wealth are the only foundation on which to build the prosperity of the whole people. Large
profits mean large pay rolls. But profits must be the result of service performed. In no land
are there so many and such large aggregations of wealth as here; in no land do they perform
larger service; in no land will the work of a day bring so large a reward in material and spiritual
welfare.

Have faith in Massachusetts. In some unimportant detail some other States may surpass her,
but in the general results, there is no place on earth where the people secure, in a larger
measure, the blessings of organized government, and nowhere can those functions more properly
be termed self-government.

Do the day's work. If it be to protect the rights of the weak, whoever objects, do it. If it
be to help a powerful corporation better to serve the people, whatever the opposition, do that.
Expect to be called a stand-patter, but don't be a stand-patter. Expect to be called a demagogue,
but don't be a demagogue. Don't hesitate to be as revolutionary as science. Don't hesitate
to be as reactionary as the multiplication table. Don't expect to build up the weak by pulling
down the strong. Don't hurry to legislate. Give administration a chance to catch up with legislation.

Statutes must appeal to more than material welfare. Wages won't satisfy, be they never so large.
Nor houses; nor lands; nor coupons, though they fall thick as the leaves of autumn. Man has
a spiritual nature. Touch it, and it must respond as the magnet responds to the pole. To that,
not to selfishness, let the laws of the Commonwealth appeal. Recognize the immortal worth and
dignity of man. Let the laws of Massachusetts proclaim to her humblest citizen, performing
the most menial task, the recognition of his manhood, the recognition that all men are peers,
the humblest with the most exalted, the recognition that all work is glorified. Such is the
path to equality before the law. Such is the foundation of liberty under the law. Such is the
sublime revelation of man's relation to man--Democracy. The past generation was one of religious
criticism. This is one of commercial criticism.

We have seen the development of great industries. It has been represented that some of these
have not been free from blame. In this development some men have seemed to prosper beyond the
measure of their service, while others have appeared to be bound to toil beyond their strength
for less than a decent livelihood.

As a result of criticising these conditions there has grown up a too well-developed public
opinion along two lines; one, that the men engaged in great affairs are selfish and greedy
and not to be trusted, that business activity is not moral and the whole system is to be condemned;
and the other, that employment, that work, is a curse to man, and that working hours ought
to be as short as possible or in some way abolished. After criticism, our religious faith emerged
clearer and stronger and freed from doubt. So will our business relations emerge, purified
but justified.

The evidence of evolution and the facts of history tell us of the progress and development
of man through various steps and ages, known by various names. We learn of the stone age, the
bronze, and the iron age. We can see the different steps in the growth of the forms of government;
how anarchy was put down by the strong arm of the despot, of the growth of aristocracy, of
limited monarchies and of parliaments, and finally democracy.

But in all these changes man took but one step at a time. Where we can trace history, no race
ever stepped directly from the stone age to the iron age and no nation ever passed directly
from depotism to democracy. Each advance has been made only when a previous stage was approaching
perfection, even to conditions which are now sometimes lost arts.

We have reached the age of invention, of commerce, of great industrial enterprise. It is often
referred to as selfish and materialistic.

Our economic system has been attacked from above and from below. But the short answer lies
in the teachings of history. The hope of a Watt or an Edison lay in the men who chipped flint
to perfection. The seed of democracy lay in a perfected despotism. The hope of to-morrow lies
in the development of the instruments of to-day. The prospect of advance lies in maintaining
those conditions which have stimulated invention and industry and commerce. The only road to
a more progressive age lies in perfecting the instrumentalities of this age. The only hope
for peace lies in the perfection of the arts of war.

    "We build the ladder by which we rise ...
           *       *       *       *       *
    And we mount to the summit round by round."

All growth depends upon activity. Life is manifest only by action. There is no development
physically or intellectually without effort, and effort means work. Work is not a curse, it
is the prerogative of intelligence, the only means to manhood, and the measure of civilization.
Savages do not work. The growth of a sentiment that despises work is an appeal from civilization
to barbarism.

I would not be understood as making a sweeping criticism of current legislation along these
lines. I, too, rejoice that an awakened conscience has outlawed commercial standards that were
false or low and that an awakened humanity has decreed that the working and living condition
of our citizens must be worthy of true manhood and true womanhood.

I agree that the measure of success is not merchandise but character. But I do criticise those
sentiments, held in all too respectable quarters, that our economic system is fundamentally
wrong, that commerce is only selfishness, and that our citizens, holding the hope of all that
America means, are living in industrial slavery. I appeal to Amherst men to reiterate and sustain
the Amherst doctrine, that the man who builds a factory builds a temple, that the man who works
there worships there, and to each is due, not scorn and blame, but reverence and praise.

III

BROCKTON CHAMBER OF COMMERCE

APRIL 11, 1916

Man's nature drives him ever onward. He is forever seeking development. At one time it may
be by the chase, at another by warfare, and again by the quiet arts of peace and commerce,
but something within is ever calling him on to "replenish the earth and subdue it."

It may be of little importance to determine at any time just where we are, but it is of the
utmost importance to determine whither we are going. Set the course aright and time must bring
mankind to the ultimate goal.

We are living in a commercial age. It is often designated as selfish and materialistic. We
are told that everything has been commercialized. They say it has not been enough that this
spirit should dominate the marts of trade, it has spread to every avenue of human endeavor,
to our arts, our sciences and professions, our politics, our educational institutions and even
into the pulpit; and because of this there are those who have gone so far in their criticism
of commercialism as to advocate the destruction of all enterprise and the abolition of all
property.

Destructive criticism is always easy because, despite some campaign oratory, some of us are
not yet perfect. But constructive criticism is not so easy. The faults of commercialism, like
many other faults, lie in the use we make of it. Before we decide upon a wholesale condemnation
of the most noteworthy spirit of modern times it would be well to examine carefully what that
spirit has done to advance the welfare of mankind.

Wherever we can read human history, the answer is always the same. Where commerce has flourished
there civilization has increased. It has not sufficed that men should tend their flocks, and
maintain themselves in comfort on their industry alone, however great. It is only when the
exchange of products begins that development follows. This was the case in ancient Babylon,
whose records of trade and banking we are just beginning to read. Their merchandise went by
canal and caravan to the ends of the earth. It was not the war galleys, but the merchant vessel
of Phoenicia, of Tyre, and Carthage that brought them civilization and power. To-day it is
not the battle fleet, but the mercantile marine which in the end will determine the destiny
of nations. The advance of our own land has been due to our trade, and the comfort and happiness
of our people are dependent on our general business conditions. It is only a figure of poetry
that "wealth accumulates and men decay." Where wealth has accumulated, there the arts and sciences
have flourished, there education has been diffused, and of contemplation liberty has been born.
The progress of man has been measured by his commercial prosperity. I believe that these considerations
are sufficient to justify our business enterprise and activity, but there are still deeper
reasons. I have intended to indicate not only that commerce is an instrument of great power,
but that commercial development is necessary to all human progress. What, then, of the prevalent
criticism? Men have mistaken the means for the end. It is not enough for the individual or
the nation to acquire riches. Money will not purchase character or good government. We are
under the injunction to "replenish the earth and subdue it," not so much because of the help
a new earth will be to us, as because by that process man is to find himself and thereby realize
his highest destiny. Men must work for more than wages, factories must turn out more than merchandise,
or there is naught but black despair ahead.

If material rewards be the only measure of success, there is no hope of a peaceful solution
of our social questions, for they will never be large enough to satisfy. But such is not the
case. Men struggle for material success because that is the path, the process, to the development
of character. We ought to demand economic justice, but most of all because it is justice. We
must forever realize that material rewards are limited and in a sense they are only incidental,
but the development of character is unlimited and is the only essential. The measure of success
is not the quantity of merchandise, but the quality of manhood which is produced.

These, then, are the justifying conceptions of the spirit of our age; that commerce is the
foundation of human progress and prosperity and the great artisan of human character. Let us
dismiss the general indictment that has all too long hung over business enterprise. While we
continue to condemn, unsparingly, selfishness and greed and all trafficking in the natural
rights of man, let us not forget to respect thrift and industry and enterprise. Let us look
to the service rather than to the reward. Then shall we see in our industrial army, from the
most exalted captain to the humblest soldier in the ranks, a purpose worthy to minister to
the highest needs of man and to fulfil the hope of a fairer day. It is the manifestation in
human affairs of a "power not ourselves that makes for righteousness." Savages have no history.
It is the mark of civilization. This New England of ours slumbered from the dawn of creation
until the beginning of the seventeenth century, not unpeopled, but with no record of human
events worthy of a name. Different races came, and lived, and vanished, but the story of their
existence has little more of interest for us than the story the naturalist tells of the animal
kingdom, or the geologist relates of the formation of the crust of the earth. It takes men
of larger vision and higher inspiration, with a power to impart a larger vision and a higher
inspiration to the people, to make history. It is not a negative, but a positive achievement.
It is unconcerned with idolatry or despotism or treason or rebellion or betrayal, but bows
in reverence before Moses or Hampden or Washington or Lincoln or the Light that shone on Calvary.

July 4, 1776, was a day of history in its high and true significance. Not because the underlying
principles set out in the Declaration of Independence were new; they are older than the Christian
religion, or Greek philosophy, nor was it because history is made by proclamation or declaration;
history is made only by action. The wonder and glory of the American people is not the ringing
declaration of that day, but the action, then already begun, and in the process of being carried
out in spite of every obstacle that war could interpose, making the theory of freedom and equality
a reality. We revere that day because it marks the beginnings of independence, the beginnings
of a constitution that was finally to give universal freedom and equality to all American citizens,
the beginnings of a government that was to recognize beyond all others the power and worth
and dignity of man. There began the first of governments to acknowledge that it was founded
on the sovereignty of the people. There the world first beheld the revelation of modern democracy.

Democracy is not a tearing-down; it is a building-up. It is not a denial of the divine right
of kings; it supplements that claim with the assertion of the divine right of all men. It does
not destroy; it fulfils. It is the consummation of all theories of government, to the spirit
of which all the nations of the earth must yield. It is the great constructive force of the
ages. It is the alpha and omega of man's relation to man, the beginning and the end. There
is and can be no more doubt of the triumph of democracy in human affairs, than there is of
the triumph of gravitation in the physical world; the only question is how and when. Its foundation
lays hold upon eternity.

These are some of the ideals that the founders of our institutions expressed, in part unconsciously,
on that momentous day now passed by one hundred and forty years. They knew that ideals do not
maintain themselves. They knew that they there declared a purpose which would be resisted by
the forces, on land and sea, of the mightiest empire of the earth. Without the resolution of
the people of the Colonies to resort to arms, and without the guiding military genius of Washington,
the Declaration of Independence would be naught in history but the vision of doctrinaires,
a mockery of sounding brass and tinkling cymbal. Let us never forget that it was that resolution
and that genius which made it the vitalizing force of a great nation. It takes service and
sacrifice to maintain ideals.

But it is far more than the Declaration of Independence that brings us here to-day. That was,
indeed, a great document. It was drawn up by Thomas Jefferson when he was at his best. It was
the product of men who seemed inspired. No greater company ever assembled to interpret the
voice of the people or direct the destinies of a nation. The events of history may have added
to it, but subtracted nothing. Wisdom and experience have increased the admiration of it. Time
and criticism have not shaken it. It stands with ordinance and law, charter and constitution,
prophecy and revelation, whether we read them in the history of Babylon, the results of Runnymede,
the Ten Commandments, or the Sermon on the Mount. But, however worthy of our reverence and
admiration, however preëminent, it was only one incident of a great forward movement of the
human race, of which the American Revolution was itself only a larger incident. It was not
so much a struggle of the Colonies against the tyranny of bad government, as against wrong
principles of government, and for self-government. It was man realizing himself. It was sovereignty
from within which responded to the alarm of Paul Revere on that April night, and which went
marching, gun in hand, against sovereignty from without, wherever it was found on earth. It
only paused at Concord, or Yorktown, then marched on to Paris, to London, to Moscow, to Pekin.
Against it the powers of privilege and the forces of despotism could not prevail. Superstition
and sham cannot stand before intelligence and reality. The light that first broke over the
thirteen Colonies lying along the Atlantic Coast was destined to illuminate the world. It has
been a struggle against the forces of darkness; victory has been and is still delayed in some
quarters, but the result is not in doubt. All the forces of the universe are ranged on the
side of democracy. It must prevail.

In the train of this idea there has come to man a long line of collateral blessings. Freedom
has many sides and angles. Human slavery has been swept away. With security of personal rights
has come security of property rights. The freedom of the human mind is recognized in the right
of free speech and free press. The public schools have made education possible for all, and
ignorance a disgrace. A most significant development of respect for man has come to be respect
for his occupation. It is not alone for the learned professions that great treasures are now
poured out. Technical, trade, and vocational schools for teaching skill in occupations are
fostered and nourished, with the same care as colleges and universities for the teaching of
sciences and the classics. Democracy not only ennobled man; it has ennobled industry. In political
affairs the vote of the humblest has long counted for as much as the vote of the most exalted.
We are working towards the day when, in our industrial life, equal honor shall fall to equal
endeavor, whether it be exhibited in the office or in the shop.

These are some of the results of that great world movement, which, first exhibiting itself
in the Continental Congress of America, carried her arms to victory, through the sacrifice
of a seven years' revolutionary war, and wrote into the Treaty of Paris the recognition of
the right of the people to rule: since which days existence on this planet has had a new meaning;
a result which, changing the old order of things, putting the race under the control and guidance
of new forces, rescued man from every thraldom, but laid on him every duty.

We know that only ignorance and superstition seek to explain events by fate and destiny, yet
there is a fascination in such speculations born, perhaps, of human frailty. How happens it
that James Otis laid out in 1762 the then almost treasonable proposition that "Kings were made
for the good of the people, and not the people for them," in a pamphlet which was circulated
among the Colonists? What school had taught Patrick Henry that national outlook which he expressed
in the opening debates of the first Continental Congress when he said, "I am not a Virginian,
but an American," and which hurried him on to the later cry of "Liberty or death?" How was
it that the filling of a vacancy sent Thomas Jefferson to the second Continental Congress,
there to pen the immortal Declaration we this day celebrate? No other living man could have
excelled him in preparation for, or in the execution of, that great task. What circumstance
put the young George Washington under the military instruction of a former army officer, and
then gave him years of training to lead the Continental forces? What settled Ethan Allen in
the wilderness of the Green Mountains ready to strike Ticonderoga? Whence came that power to
draft state papers, in a new and unlettered land, which compelled the admiration of the cultured
Earl of Chatham? What lengthened out the days of Benjamin Franklin that he might negotiate
the Treaty of Paris? What influence sent the miraculous voice of Daniel Webster from the outlying
settlements of New Hampshire to rouse the land with his appeal for Liberty and Union? And finally
who raised up Lincoln, to lead, to inspire, and to die, that the opening assertion of the Declaration
might stand at last fulfilled?

These thoughts are overpowering. But let us beware of fate and destiny. Barbarians have decreased,
but barbarism still exists. Rome boasted the name of the Eternal City. It was but eight hundred
years from the sack of the city by one tribe of barbarians to the sack of the city by another
tribe of barbarians. Between lay something akin to a democratic commonwealth. Then games, and
bribes for the populace, with dictators and Cæsars, while later the Prætorian Guard sold the
royal purple to the highest bidder. After which came Alaric, the Goth, and night. Since when
democracy lay dormant for some fifteen centuries. We may claim with reason that our Nation
has had the guidance of Providence; we may know that our form of government must ultimately
prevail upon earth; but what guaranty have we that it shall be maintained here? What proof
that some unlineal hand, some barbarism, without or within, shall not wrench the sceptre of
democracy from our grasp? The rule of princes, the privilege of birth, has come down through
the ages; the rule of the people has not yet marked a century and a half. There is no absolute
proof, no positive guaranty, but there is hope and high expectation, and the path is not uncharted.

It may be some help to know that, however much of glory, there is no magic in American democracy.
Let us examine some more of this Declaration of ours, and examine it in the light of the events
of those solemn days in which it was adopted.

Men of every clime have lavished much admiration upon the first part of the Declaration of
Independence, and rightly so, for it marked the entry of new forces and new ideals into human
affairs. Its admirers have sometimes failed in their attempts to live by it, but none have
successfully disputed its truth. It is the realization of the true glory and worth of man,
which, when once admitted, wrought vast changes that have marked all history since its day.
All this relates to natural rights, fascinating to dwell upon, but not sufficient to live by.
The signers knew that well; more important still, the people whom they represented knew it.
So they did not stop there. After asserting that man was to stand out in the universe with
a new and supreme importance, and that governments were instituted to insure life, liberty,
and the pursuit of happiness, they did not shrink from the logical conclusion of this doctrine.
They knew that the duty between the citizen and the State was reciprocal. They knew that the
State called on its citizens for their property and their lives; they laid down the proposition
that government was to protect the citizen in his life, liberty, and pursuit of happiness.
At some expense? Yes. Those prudent and thrifty men had no false notions about incurring expense.
They knew the value of increasing their material resources, but they knew that prosperity was
a means, not an end. At cost of life? Yes. These sons of the Puritans, of the Huguenots, of
the men of Londonderry, braved exile to secure peace, but they were not afraid to die in defence
of their convictions. They put no limit on what the State must do for the citizen in his hour
of need. While they required all, they gave all. There is no cringing reservation here, no
alternative, and no delay. Here is the voice of the plain men of Middlesex, promising Yorktown,
promising Appomattox.

The doctrine of the Declaration of Independence, predicated upon the glory of man, and the
corresponding duty of society, is that the rights of citizens are to be protected with every
power and resource of the State, and a government that does any less is false to the teachings
of that great document, of the name American. Beyond this, the principle that it is the obligation
of the people to rise and overthrow government which fails in these respects. But above all,
the call to duty, the pledge of fortune and of life, nobility of character through nobility
of action: this is Americanism.

     "Woe for us if we forget, we that hold by these."

Herein are the teachings of this day--touching the heights of man's glory and the depths of
man's duty. Here lies the path to national preservation, and there is no other. Education,
the progress of science, commercial prosperity, yes, and peace, all these and their accompanying
blessings are worthy and commendable objects of attainment. But these are not the end, whether
these come or no; the end lies in action--action in accord with the eternal principles of the
Declaration of Independence; the words of the Continental Congress, but the deeds of the Army
of the Revolution.

This is the meaning of America. And it is all our own. Doctrinaires and visionaries may shudder
at it. The privilege of birth may jeer at it. The practical politician may scoff at it. But
the people of the Nation respond to it, and march away to Mexico to the rescue of a colored
trooper as they marched of old to the rescue of an emperor. The assertion of human rights is
naught but a call to human sacrifice. This is yet the spirit of the American people. Only so
long as this flame burns shall we endure and the light of liberty be shed over the nations
of the earth.

V

RIVERSIDE

AUGUST 28, 1916

It may be that there would be votes for the Republican Party in the promise of low taxes and
vanishing expenditures. I can see an opportunity for its candidates to pose as the apostles
of retrenchment and reform. I am not one of those who believe votes are to be won by misrepresentations,
skilful presentations of half truths, and plausible deductions from false premises. Good government
cannot be found on the bargain-counter. We have seen samples of bargain-counter government
in the past when low tax rates were secured by increasing the bonded debt for current expenses
or refusing to keep our institutions up to the standard in repairs, extensions, equipment,
and accommodations. I refuse, and the Republican Party refuses, to endorse that method of sham
and shoddy economy. New projects can wait, but the commitments of the Commonwealth must be
maintained. We cannot curtail the usual appropriations or the care of mothers with dependent
children or the support of the poor, the insane, and the infirm. The Democratic programme of
cutting the State tax, by vetoing appropriations of the utmost urgency for improvements and
maintenance costs of institutions and asylums of the unfortunates of the State, cannot be the
example for a Republican administration. The result has been that our institutions are deficient
in resources--even in sleeping accommodations--and it will take years to restore them to the
old-time Republican efficiency. Our party will have no part in a scheme of economy which adds
to the misery of the wards of the Commonwealth--the sick, the insane, and the unfortunate;
those who are too weak even to protest.

Because I know these conditions I know a Republican administration would face an increasing
State tax rather than not see them remedied.

The Republican Party lit the fire of progress in Massachusetts. It has tended it faithfully.
It will not flicker now. It has provided here conditions of employment, and safeguards for
health, that are surpassed nowhere on earth. There will be no backward step. The reuniting
of the Republican Party means no reaction in the protection of women and children in our industrial
life. These laws are settled. These principles are established. Minor modifications are possible,
but the foundations are not to be disturbed. The advance may have been too rapid in some cases,
but there can be no retreat. That is the position of the great majority of those who constitute
our party.

We recognize there is need of relief--need to our industries, need to our population in manufacturing
centres; but it must come from construction, not from destruction. Put an administration on
Beacon Hill that can conserve our resources, that can protect us from further injuries, until
a national Republican policy can restore those conditions of confidence and prosperity under
which our advance began and under which it can be resumed.

This makes the coming State election take on a most important aspect--not that it can furnish
all the needed relief, but that it will increase the probability of a complete relief in the
near future if it be crowned with Republican victory.

VI

AT THE HOME OF AUGUSTUS P. GARDNER, HAMILTON

SEPTEMBER, 1916

Standing here in the presence of our host, our thoughts naturally turn to a discussion of "Preparedness."
I do not propose to overlook that issue; but I shall offer suggestions of another kind of "preparedness."
Not that I shrink from full and free consideration of the military needs of our country. Nor
do I agree that it is now necessary to remain silent regarding the domestic or foreign relations
of this Nation.

I agree that partisanship should stop at the boundary line, but I assert that patriotism should
begin there. Others, however, have covered this field, and I leave it to them and to you.

I do, however, propose to discuss the "preparedness" of the State to care for its unfortunates.
And I propose to do this without any party bias and without blame upon any particular individual,
but in just criticism of a system.

In Massachusetts, we are citizens before we are partisans. The good name of the Commonwealth
is of more moment to us than party success. But unfortunately, because of existing conditions,
that good name, in one particular at least, is now in jeopardy.

Massachusetts, for twenty years, has been able honestly to boast of the care it has bestowed
upon her sick, poor, and insane. Her institutions have been regarded as models throughout the
world. We are falling from that proud estate; crowded housing conditions, corridors used for
sleeping purposes, are not only not unusual, but are coming to be the accepted standard. The
heads of asylums complain that maintenance and the allowance for food supply and supervision
are being skimped.

On August 1 of this year, the institutions throughout the State housed more than 700 patients
above what they were designed to accommodate, and I am told the crowding is steadily increasing.
That is one reason I have been at pains to set forth that I do not see the way clear to make
a radical reduction in the annual State budget. I now repeat that declaration, in spite of
contradiction, because I know the citizens of this State have no desire for economies gained
at such a sacrifice. The people have no stomach for retrenchment of that sort.

A charge of overcrowding, which must mean a lack of care, is not to be carelessly made. You
are entitled to facts, as well as phrases. I gave the whole number now confined in our institutions
above the stated capacity as over 700. About August 1, Danvers had 1530 in an institution of
1350 capacity. Northampton, my home town, had 913, in a hospital built for 819. In Boston State
Hospital, there were 1572, where the capacity was 1406. Westboro had 1260 inmates, with capacity
for 1161, and Medfield had 1615, where the capacity was 1542. These capacities are given from
official recorded accommodations.

This was not the practice of the past, and there can be no question as to where the responsibility
rests. The General Court has done its best, but there has been a halt elsewhere. A substantial
appropriation was made for a new State Hospital for the Metropolitan District, and an additional
appropriation for a new institution for the feeble-minded in the western part of the State.
In its desire to hasten matters, the legislature went even further and granted money for plans
for a new hospital in the Metropolitan District, to relieve part of the outside congestion,
but the needed relief is still in the future.

I feel the time has come when the people must assert themselves and show that they will tolerate
no delay and no parsimony in the care of our unfortunates. Restore the fame of our State in
the handling of these problems to its former lustre.

I repeat that this is not partisan. I am not criticising individuals. I am denouncing a system.
When you substitute patronage for patriotism, administration breaks down. We need more of the
Office Desk and less of the Show Window in politics. Let men in office substitute the midnight
oil for the limelight. Let Massachusetts return to the sound business methods which were exemplified
in the past by such Democrats in the East as Governor Gaston and Governor Douglas, and by such
Republicans in the West as Governor Robinson and Governor Crane.

Above all, let us not, in our haste to prepare for war, forget to prepare for peace. The issue
is with you. You can, by your votes, show what system you stamp with the approval of enlightened
Massachusetts Public Opinion.

VII

LAFAYETTE BANQUET, FALL RIVER

SEPTEMBER 4, 1916

Seemingly trifling events oft carry in their train great consequences. The firing of a gun
in the backwoods of Pennsylvania, Macaulay tells us, started the Seven Years' War which set
the world in conflagration, causing men to fight each other on every shore of the seven seas
and giving new masters to the most ancient of empires. We see to-day fifteen nations engaged
in the most terrific war in the history of the human race and trace its origin to the bullet
of a madman fired in the Balkans. It is true that the flintlock gun at Lexington was not the
first, nor yet the last, to fire a "shot heard round the world." It was not the distance it
travelled, but the message it carried which has marked it out above all other human events.
It was the character of that message which, claimed the attention of him we this day honor,
in the far-off fortress of the now famous Metz; it was because it roused in the listener a
sympathetic response that it was destined to link forever the events of Concord and Lexington
and Bunker Hill and Dorchester Heights, in our Commonwealth, with the name of Lafayette.

For there was a new tone in those Massachusetts guns. It was not the old lust of conquest,
not the sullen roar of hatred and revenge, but a higher, clearer note of a people asserting
their inalienable sovereignty. It is a happy circumstance that one of our native-born, Benjamin
Franklin, was instrumental in bringing Lafayette to America; but beyond that it is fitting
at this time to give a thought to our Commonwealth because his ideals, his character, his life,
were all in sympathy with that great Revolution which was begun within her borders and carried
to a successful conclusion by the sacrifice of her treasure and her blood. It was not the able
legal argument of James Otis against the British Writs of Assistance, nor the petitions and
remonstrances of the Colonists to the British throne, admirable though they were, that aroused
the approbation and brought his support to our cause. It was not alone that he agreed with
the convictions of the Continental Congress. He saw in the example of Massachusetts a people
who would shrink from no sacrifice to defend rights which were beyond price. It was not the
Tories, fleeing to Canada, that attracted him. It was the patriots, bearing arms, and he brought
them not a pen but a sword.

"Resistance to tyranny is obedience to law," and "obedience to law is liberty." Those are the
foundations of the Commonwealth. It was these principles in action which appealed to that young
captain of dragoons and brought the sword and resources of the aristocrat to battle for democracy.
I love to think of his connection with our history. I love to think of him at the dedication
of the Bunker Hill Monument receiving the approbation of the Nation from the lips of Daniel
Webster. I love to think of the long line of American citizens of French blood in our Commonwealth
to-day, ready to defend the principles he fought for, "Liberty under the Law," citizens who,
like him, look not with apology, but with respect and approval and admiration on that sentiment
inscribed on the white flag of Massachusetts, "Ense petit placidam sub libertate quietem" (With
a sword she seeks secure peace under liberty).

This year the Republican Party has adopted a very advanced platform. That was natural, for
we have always been the party of progress, and have given our attention to that, when we were
not engaged in a life-and-death struggle to overcome the fallacies put forth by our opponents,
with which we are all so familiar. The result has been that here in Massachusetts, where our
party has ever been strong, and where we have framed legislation for more than fifty years,
more progress has been made along the lines of humanitarian legislation than in any other State.
We have felt free to call on our industries to make large outlays along these lines because
we have furnished them with the advantages of a protective tariff and an honest and efficient
state government. The consequences have been that in this State the hours and conditions of
labor have been better than anywhere else on earth. Those provisions for safety, sanitation,
compensations for accidents, and for good living conditions have now been almost entirely worked
out. There remains, however, the condition of sickness, age, misfortune, lack of employment,
or some other cause, that temporarily renders people unable to care for themselves. Our platform
has taken up this condition.

We have long been familiar with insurance to cover losses. You will readily recall the different
kinds. Formerly it was only used in commerce, by the well-to-do. Recently it has been adapted
to the use of all our people by the great industrial companies which have been very successful.
Our State has adopted a system of savings-bank insurance, thus reducing the expense. Now, social
insurance will not be, under a Republican interpretation, any new form of outdoor relief, some
new scheme of living on the town. It will be an extension of the old familiar principle to
the needs at hand, and so popularized as to meet the requirements of our times.

It ought to be understood, however, that there can be no remedy for lack of industry and thrift,
secured by law. It ought to be understood that no scheme of insurance and no scheme of government
aid is likely to make us all prosperous. And above all, these remedies must go forward on the
firm foundation of an independent, self-supporting, self-governing people. But we do honestly
put forward a proposition for the relief of misfortune.

The Republican Party is proposing humanitarian legislation to build up character, to establish
independence, not pauperism; it will in the future, as in the past, ever stand opposed to the
establishment of one class who shall live on the Government, and another class who shall pay
the taxes. To those who fear we are turning Socialists, and to those who think we are withholding
just and desirable public aid and support, I say that government under the Republican Party
will continue in the future to be so administered as to breed not mendicants, but men. Humanitarian
legislation is going to be the handmaid of character. That is the principle which lies at the
foundation of Anglo-Saxon liberty. It matters not with what power the individual is assailed,
nor whether that power is represented by wealth or place or numbers; against it the humblest
American citizen has the right to the protection of his Government by every force that Government
can command.

This right would be but half expressed if it ran only to a remedy after a wrong is inflicted;
it should and does run to the prevention of a wrong which is threatened. We find our citizens,
to-day, not so much suffering from the high cost of living, though that is grievous enough,
as threatened with an increasing cost which will bring suffering and misery to a large body
of our inhabitants. So we come here not only to discuss providing a remedy for what is now
existing, but some protection to ward off what is threatening to be a worse calamity. We shall
utterly fail of our purpose to provide relief unless we look at things as they are. It is useless
to indulge in indiscriminate abuse. We must not confuse the innocent with the guilty; it must
be our object to allay suspicion, not to create it. The great body of our tradespeople are
honest and conscientious, anxious to serve their customers for a fair return for their service.
We want their coöperation in our pursuit of facts; we want to coöperate with them in proposing
and securing a remedy. We do not deny the existence of economic laws, nor the right to profit
by a change of conditions.

But we do claim the right and duty of the Government to investigate and punish any artificial
creation of high prices by means of illegal monopolies or restraints of trade. And above all,
we claim the right of publicity. That is a remedy with an arm longer and stronger than that
of the law. Let us know what is going on and the remedy will provide itself. In working along
this line we shall have great help from the newspapers. The American people are prepared to
meet any reasonable burden; they are not asking for charity or favor; fair prices and fair
profits they will gladly pay; but they demand information that they are fair, and an immediate
reduction if they are not.

The Commonwealth has just provided money for an investigation by a competent commission. Its
Police Department, its Law Department, are also at the service of our citizens. Let us refrain
from suspicion; let us refrain from all indiscriminate blame; but let us present at once to
the proper authorities all facts and all evidence of unfair practices. Let all our merchants,
of whatever degree, assist in this work for the public good and let the individual see and
feel that all his rights are protected by his Government. They had seen a nation in the making.
They founded their government on the rights of the individual. They had no hesitation in defending
those rights against the invasion of a British King and Parliament, by a Revolutionary War,
nor in criticising their own Government at Washington when they thought an invasion of those
rights was again threatened by the preliminaries and the prosecution of the War of 1812. They
had made the Commonwealth. They understood its Government. They knew it was a part of themselves,
their own organization. They had not acquired the state of mind that enabled them to stand
aloof and regard government as something apart and separate from the people. It would never
have occurred to them that they could not transact for themselves any other business just as
well as they could transact for themselves the business of government. They were the men who
had fought a war to limit the power of government and enlarge the privileges of the individual.

It was the same spirit that made Massachusetts that made the Provident Institution for Savings.
What the men of that day wanted they made for themselves. They would never have thought of
asking Congress to keep their money in the post-office. They did not want their commercial
privileges interfered with by having the Government buy and sell for them. They had the self-reliance
and the independence to prefer to do those things for themselves. This is the spirit that founded
Massachusetts, the spirit that has seen your bank grow until it could now probably purchase
all there was of property in the Commonwealth when it began its existence. I want to see that
spirit still preëminent here. I want to see a deeper realization on the part of the people
that this is their Commonwealth, their Government; that they control it, that they pay its
expenses, that it is, after all, only a part of themselves; that any attempt to shift upon
it their duties, their responsibilities, or their support will in the end only delude, degrade,
impoverish, and enslave. Your institution points the only way, through self-control, self-denial,
and self-support, to self-government, to independence, to a more generous liberty, and to a
firmer establishment of individual rights.

XI

ASSOCIATED INDUSTRIES DINNER, BOSTON

DECEMBER 15, 1916

During the past few years we have questioned the soundness of many principles that had for
a long time been taken for granted. We have examined the foundations of our institutions of
government. We have debated again the theories of the men who wrote the Declaration of Independence,
the Constitution of the Nation, and laid down the fundamental law of our own Commonwealth.
Along with this examination of our form of government has gone an examination of our social,
industrial, and economic system. What is to come out of it all?

In the last fifty years we have had a material prosperity in this country the like of which
was never beheld before. A prosperity which not only built up great industries, great transportation
systems, great banks and a great commerce, but a prosperity under whose influence arts and
sciences, education and charity flourished most abundantly. It was little wonder that men came
to think that prosperity was the chief end of man and grew arrogant in the use of its power.
It was little wonder that such a misunderstanding arose that one part of the community thought
the owners and managers of our great industries were robbers, or that they thought some of
the people meant to confiscate all property. It has been a costly investigation, but if we
can arrive at a better understanding of our economic and social laws it will be worth all it cost.

As a part of this discussion we have had many attempts at regulation of industrial activity
by law. Some of it has proceeded on the theory that if those who enjoyed material prosperity
used it for wrong purposes, such prosperity should be limited or abolished. That is as sound
as it would be to abolish writing to prevent forgery. We need to keep forever in mind that
guilt is personal; if there is to be punishment let it fall on the evil-doer, let us not condemn
the instrument. We need power. Is the steam engine too strong? Is electricity too swift? Can
any prosperity be too great? Can any instrument of commerce or industry ever be too powerful
to serve the public needs? What then of the anti-trust laws? They are sound in theory. (1881),
"Homeward" (1882), and "The Chapel of the Charterhouse" (1889). He was elected A. R. A. in 1879
and R. A. in 1890.

THE HON. ERSKINE NICOL, A. R. A. BORN 1825.

The Hon. Erskine Nicol, A. R. A., was born at Leith, Scotland, in
1825, and received his art education in the Trustees'Academy, Edinburgh,
under Sir William Allan and Mr. Thomas Duncan.

In 1846 he went to reside in Ireland, where he remained three or four years. It was this residence in
the sister isle which decided the painter's choice of his peculiar field of representation,
for most of his subsequent pictures have been Irish in subject. From Ireland he returned to
Edinburgh, and after exhibiting for some time, he was ultimately elected a member of the Royal
Scottish Academy. In 1862 he settled in London, and after that date contributed regularly to
the exhibitions of the Royal Academy, of which body he was elected an Associate in June, 1866. JOHN MACWHIRTER,
A. R. A. BORN 1839. Mr. John MacWhirter, A. R. A., was born at Slateford, near Edinburgh, and educated
at Peebles. He was elected an Associate of the Royal Scottish Academy
in 1863.

In the following year he came to London, and was elected an Associate
of the Royal Academy on January 22nd, 1879.

He was elected an Honorary Member of the Royal Scotch Academy in
1882; elected member of the Royal Institute of Painters in Water Colours,
same year; exhibited in R. A., 1884, "The Windings of the Forth,"
"A Sermon by the Sea," and "Home of the Grizzly Bear"; 1885, "Track
of a Hurricane," "Iona," "Loch Scavaig"; "The Three Witches," 1886.

Mr. MacWhirter has painted "Loch Cornisk, Skye," 1867; "A great while ago the world began with
hey ho, the wind and the rain," 1871; "Caledonia," 1875; "The Lady
of the Woods," 1876; "The Three Graces," 1878; "The Valley by the
Sea," 1879; "The Lord of the Glen," 1880; "Sunday in the Highlands,"
and "Mountain Tops," 1881; "A Highland Auction" and "Ossian's Grave,"
1882; "Corrie, Isle of Arran," "Sunset Fires," "Nature's Mirror,"
"A Highland Harvest," 1883; and "Edinburgh from Salisbury Crag,"
1887.

J. FORBES-ROBERTSON. BORN 1853. Mr. Forbes-Robertson, who is the son of the well-known art critic
and historian, Mr. John Forbes-Robertson, was educated at the Charterhouse, and afterwards
at various art schools in France and Germany. Being intended for an artist, he in due course
entered the Royal Academy as a student, where he proved a most promising pupil, but his great natural
bent towards the stage was too strong to be overcome, and he made his début as Chastelard in "Marie
Stuart," at the Princess's. He rapidly made a very high reputation,
especially as Baron Scarpia in "La Tosca," in which he displayed extraordinary
passion, power, and earnestness. At the present time he is appearing
in the remarkable revival of "Diplomacy" at the Garrick. EDWARD LLOYD. BORN
1845. Mr. Edward Lloyd, the famous tenor vocalist, was born in London
in 1845. When seven years of age he entered Westminster Abbey choir.
Afterwards he became solo tenor at the Chapel Royal, St. James's.
Mr. Lloyd sang in Novello's Concerts in 1867, and at the Gloucester
Festival in 1871, where he attracted much attention by his part in
Bach's "Passion."

In 1888 he went on tour in America, and sang in the Cincinnati Festival.

In the same year he sang also in the Handel Festival; and was principal
tenor in the Leeds Musical Festival in 1889.

Mr. Edward Lloyd is an artist "to the manner born," gifted with a perfect ear, a voice not only of exquisite
quality, but of remarkable flexibility, and is without doubt the most popular tenor now before
the public. The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes. XVIII.-- THE ADVENTURE OF THE MUSGRAVE RITUAL.
BY A. CONAN DOYLE. It was 9 ft. in length. "Of course, the calculation
now was a simple one. From Behind the Speaker's Chair. V. (VIEWED
BY HENRY W. LUCY.) SIR CHARLES LEWIS. The history of Sir Charles Lewis,
long time member for Derry, who sat in the last Parliament for North
Antrim, is full of instruction for young members.

Mr. Charles Lewis, as he was most familiarly known, entered the House
as member for Derry in 1872, representing the city for just fourteen
years.

He was returned again at the General Election of 1886; and it was
part of the evil fate that pursued him through his Parliamentary career
that he should have been unseated on a petition.

In the following February he was returned for North Antrim, and with
the Salisbury Parliament disappeared from the political arena.

It was in the Session of 1874 that he bounded into fame. Conservatives were in high spirits, just
entering under Mr. Disraeli's leadership upon a long lease of untrammelled power. Mr. Lewis,
unnoticed in the preceding Parliament, came to the front in the earliest weeks of the new one,
buzzing around in what some of his contemporaries were inclined to regard as an unnecessarily blatant
manner. He attracted the notice of the World, just then founded, and, under the new and vigorous
system of editorship inaugurated by Mr. Edmund Yates, boldly striking out for a leading place
in weekly journalism. Mr. Lewis, whom his most relentless detractors would not accuse of lack
of courage, resented the playfully bitter attacks of the World, and
brought before Mr. Justice Coleridge and a special jury what, at the
time, achieved some notoriety as the great White Waistcoat question.

It must be admitted that whether a member of the House of Commons
wears a white waistcoat or a black one is no business of anyone but
himself; certainly has nothing to do with his political position.

But of Mr. Lewis's once famous white waistcoat it may be said, as
was written long ago in another connection," which thing is an allegory.

"A white waistcoat worn in sultry weather with light tweed or other
summer suit is appropriate to the occasion and pleasant to the eye.

It was an indication of Mr. Lewis's character-- perhaps too subtly,
possibly erroneously, deduced-- that in bleak March weather he should
have breasted an angry House of Commons in a spacious white waistcoat,
made all the more aggressive since it was worn in conjunction with
a stubbornly-shaped black frock-coat and a pair of black trousers
of uncompromising Derry cut.

However it be, Mr. Lewis would stand no reflections upon his white
waistcoat, and gave the new World an appreciable fillip on its career
by haling it into court on a charge of libel, which Lord Coleridge
dismissed without thinking it necessary to trouble a jury.

That was not a hopeful start for a new member.

But Mr. Lewis was not the kind of man to be daunted by repulse.

It supplies testimony to his strong personality that, whilst more
or less damaging himself, he succeeded on more than one occasion in
seriously compromising his political friends and the House itself.

In the whirlwind that followed it was forgotten that it was Mr. Lewis (now Sir Charles," B.
B. K. "as the Claimant put it) who brought about the appointment of the Parnell Commission and
all it boded. When in May, 1887, the Times published an article accusing Mr. Parnell of wilful
and deliberate falsehood in denying his connection with P. J. Sheridan, Sir Charles Lewis reappeared
on the scene, and, with protest of his desire that the Irish leader should have the earliest opportunity
of clearing his character from the slur cast upon it, moved that the printers of the Times be
brought to the Bar on a charge of breach of privilege.

Mr. W. H. Smith, then fresh to the leadership, did his best to shake
off this inconvenient counsellor.

Sir Charles's proposal was burked; but he had laid the powder, which was soon after fired and
led to the successive explosions around the Parnell Commission. That in later life Sir Charles Lewis
should have taken this precise means of bringing himself once more to the front was fresh proof
of his courage. It was on an analogous motion that he had made his
earliest mark.

A Select Committee sitting on Foreign Loans, the morning papers had, as usual, given some report
of the proceedings. But though this was customary, it was, none the less, technically a breach of
Standing Order. Mr. Charles Lewis, availing himself of the existence of the anachronism, moved
that the printers of the Times and the Daily News be summoned to the Bar, charged with breach
of privilege. Mr. Disraeli, then leader, did his best to get out
of the difficulty.

Mr.
Lewis, in full flush with the white waistcoat, was inexorable. The printers were ordered to appear. They
obeyed the summons, and the House finding itself in a position of ludicrous embarrassment, they
were privily entreated to withdraw, and, above all, to be so good as to say nothing more on the
matter." How, if a'will not stand? "queried the wary second watchman. Thus, in the spring of
1875, under the temporary leadership of Mr. Charles Lewis, did the House of Commons act towards the representatives
of the Times and the Daily News, with the added embarrassment that the vagrom men in question had
not refused to stand, but were even then in the lobby awaiting judgment. In the following Session
Mr. Lewis succeeded in stirring up another historic scene. It was he who brought under the notice
of the House of Commons Mr. Lowe's historic declaration, made in a speech delivered at Retford,
that before Mr. Disraeli had undertaken to pass a Bill creating the Queen Empress of India,
two other Prime Ministers had been approached on the subject by Her Majesty, and had declined
to be a party to the proceedings.

Mr. Lewis was utterly devoid of sense of humour, a poverty that largely accounts for his failure in
public life. The only joke he ever made was unconsciously produced. It happened one night in Committee
of Supply, when, girding at the Irish members opposite, he sarcastically expressed the hope that
the vote before the Committee" would not prove another fly in the ointment to spoil the digestion
of honourable gentlemen opposite. "" Mr. Chairman, "observed Mr. Delahunty, who then represented Waterford
City," we have many peculiarities in Ireland, but we don't eat ointment. "Thus, though Mr.
Lewis had no humour in his own nature, he was occasionally the cause of its ebullition in others. The
short note he elicited from Mr. Lowe when he assumed the right to call
the right hon. gentleman to task for this indiscretion hugely delighted
the House of Commons." Sir, "snapped Mr. Lowe," my recent speech
at Retford contains nothing relating to you.

I must therefore decline to answer your questions. "That would have shut up some men. It had the effect
of inciting Mr. Charles Lewis to further action. He brought forward a motion for a return setting
forth the text of the oath of Privy Councillors, explaining that
he desired to show that Mr. Lowe had, in the disclosure made, violated
his oath.

There followed an animated and angry scene. Disraeli, whilst dealing a back-handed blow at the
inconvenient friend behind him, struck out at his ancient enemy, Lowe, whose statement he
said was" monstrous, if true. "He added that he was permitted to state on the personal authority of
the Queen it was absolutely without foundation. These are some of the episodes writ large in
a notable Parliamentary career. Their range shows that Mr. Lewis was a man of high, if ill-directed, capacity.
No mere blunderer could have stirred the depths of the House of Commons as from time to time he
did. He was, in truth-- and here is the pity of it-- a man of great ability, an admirable speaker.
If his instincts had been finer and his training more severe he would
have made a position of quite another kind in Parliamentary annals.

Vain, restless, with narrow views and strong prejudices, he was his own worst enemy. But he will
not have lived in vain if new members, entering the House from whatever quarter, sitting on whichever side,
will study his career, and apply its lesson. His character in its main bearings is by no means
unfamiliar in the House of Commons. It was his special qualities of courage and capacity that made
him so beneficially prominent as an example of what to avoid. CABINET SECRETS. Amongst the
characteristics of the present Government that make them in Ministries a thing apart is the almost
total absence of the air of mystery that, through the ages, has enveloped Cabinets and their
consultations.

Never in times ancient or modern was there on the eve of a new Session so little mystery about the
intentions of the Government. There was still practised by the morning
newspapers the dear old farce of purporting to forecast the unknown.
On the morning that opens the new Session there appears in all well-conducted
morning papers an article delivered in the style of the Priestess Pythia
in the temple at Delphi.

Nothing is positively assumed, but the public are told that when the Queen's Speech is disclosed" it
will probably contain promise of legislation "on such a head, whilst it will" doubtless be found that
Her Majesty's Ministers have not been unmindful of "such another question. This fashion was invented
generations ago, either by the Times or the Morning Chronicle. The editor, having access to those
gilded saloons to which Lord Palmerston once made historic reference,
or profiting by personal acquaintance with a Minister, obtained more
or less full knowledge of what the Queen's Speech would contain.

But he was bound in honour to preserve his informant from possibly inconvenient consequences of his garrulity,
and so the oracular style was adopted.

When other papers, put on the track, obtained information in the same way they adopted the same quaint
practice, till now it has become deeply ingrained in journalism. To-day, whilst there is no secret
of the sources of information very properly conveyed to the Press
on the eve of the Session, this same style of dealing with it, in
which Mr. Wemmick would have revelled, is sedulously observed.

At the beginning of this Session other than newspaper editors had been made aware of the general legislative
intentions of the Government.

Ministers speaking at various public meetings had openly announced
that their several departments were at the time engaged upon the
preparation of particular Bills, the main directions of which were
plainly indicated.

It is true that details of the Home Rule Bill were lacking, though two or three weeks in advance
of its presentation one journal, the Speaker, gave an exceedingly close summary of its clauses. But that
a Home Rule Bill was to be introduced, that it would take precedence of all other measures, and that
it would be thorough enough to satisfy the Irish members, were commonplaces of information long before
the Speech was read in the House of Lords. It used to be different. Within the range of recent
memory, the publication of the Queen's Speech, or at least a forecast
in the morning papers, was the first authoritative indication of the
drift of legislation in the new Session.

Talking of this new departure with one of the oldest members of the House, he tells me a delightful
story, which I have never found recalled in print, and it is too
good to be buried in the pages of Hansard.

At one time, in the run of the Parliament of 1859-65, Lord Palmerston being Premier, a rumour shook
the political world, affirming the resignation of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, Mr. Gladstone.
The newspapers were neither so alert nor so well informed in those days, and the rumour drifted about,
neither confirmed nor contradicted. At length, Mr. Horsman could stand the uncertainty no longer,
and from his place in the House of Commons he asked Lord Palmerston whether there was any truth in the report.
The Premier approached the table in his gravest manner, and the crowded House was hushed in silence
for the anticipated disclosure. He had, he said, just come from a meeting of the Cabinet Council, and
could not pretend to be uninformed on the matter of the question
submitted to him.

The House,
however, knew how stringent was the oath of a Privy Councillor, and
how impossible it was for one in ordinary circumstances either to
affirm or deny a report current as to what had taken place within
its doors.

Lord Palmerston was evidently struggling between a desire to tell something and disinclination to
tamper with his oath. As his manner grew more embarrassed, the interest of the House was quickened.
All heads, including that of Mr. Horsman, were craned forward as he went on to observe that, perhaps,
in the peculiar circumstances of the case, he would be justified in saying that, at the Council just
held, the Chancellor of the Exchequer had been present and had displayed
no sign of intended resignation."

In fact, "said Lord Palmerston, turning round to face Mr. Horsman, seated at the corner bench below the
Gangway," my right hon. friend has had his ear at the keyhole of the wrong door. "THE PARLIAMENTARY
OLD GUARD. I have received a sheaf of correspondence arising out of the article in the February
number, cataloguing the Old Guard who were in the House of Commons twenty years ago and stand there to-day.
One or two demand acknowledgment as adding to the information there
garnered.

Mr. Thomas Whitworth, of Liverpool, a member of the House of Commons from 1869 to 1874, has made independent
investigation, with the result of adding several to the names I gave. These are Sir Charles Dalrymple,
Mr. Duff (who has just retired from Parliament on his appointment to the Governorship of New
South Wales), Sir Julian Goldsmid, Sir John Hibbert, Sir J. W. Pease, Mr. J. G. Talbot, Mr.
Abel Smith, and Mr. James Round. Mr. Whitworth adds Mr. Charles Seeley. That is an error, since
Mr. Seeley does not sit in the present Parliament-- having been defeated at the General Election
when he stood for the Rushcliffe Division of Nottinghamshire." Sir Thomas Lea (not Mr. Lea) was,
in 1873, "Mr. Whitworth writes," member for Kidderminster, and is the only English member of that
date who has changed into an Irish one. "The present member for Londonderry was certainly" Mr. "Lea
in 1873, his baronetcy dating from 1892, being one of the recognitions
made by Lord Salisbury of the services of the Dissentient Liberal
allies.

The reference to Sir William Dyke as Liberal Whip was, as the context
shows, an obvious slip of the pen, Sir William having been for many
years prominent in the Conservative ranks as an able Whip.

One of the late Mr. Miall's kinsmen points out that" it was Edward
Miall, M. P. for Bradford, not Charles, "who, side by side with the late Mr.
Fawcett, fought Mr. Gladstone on the Irish University Bill, and did
much to bring about the subsequent débâcle of the Liberals.

Finally, Mr. Johnston, of Ballykilbeg, writes from the House of Commons:" In your interesting paper,'From
Behind the Speaker's Chair,'in THE STRAND MAGAZINE for this month, you say,'Mr. Johnston, still of Ballykilbeg,
but no longer a Liberal, as he ranked twenty years ago.'In politics I am to-day what I was twenty
years ago. Always anxious to vote for measures for the good of the country, and sometimes being
in the Lobby with Liberals, I never belonged to that party. Mr. Disraeli,
in a letter which I have, expressed his regret that I should have
been opposed, in 1868, by some Belfast Conservatives, and did all
in his power to prevent this.

I was always, as he knew, and Lord Rowton knows, a loyal follower of Disraeli. "In conversation,
Mr. Johnston adds the interesting fact that when in 1868 he was first
returned for Belfast, he was in the habit of receiving whips from
both sides of the House, a remarkable testimony to the impression
of his absolute impartiality thus early conveyed to observers.

The House
of Commons, by the way, is ignorant that in this sturdy Protestant it entertains a novelist
unawares. Mr. Johnston has written at least two works of fiction, one entitled" Nightshade, "which
presumably deals with the epoch of the fellest domination of Rome;
and the other"

Under Which King? "a, perhaps unconscious, reflection of the unsettled state of mind with which
the hon. gentleman entered politics, and which led to embarrassing attention from the rival Whips. LORD
RANDOLPH CHURCHILL. The interest attached to Lord Randolph Churchill's reappearance on the Parliamentary
scene proved one of the most interesting and significant incidents in the early days of the new
Parliament. There is no doubt that, whatever be his present views and intentions, Lord Randolph
years ago convinced himself that he was cut adrift from the political
world, and that it had no charms to lure him back.

He began by giving up to Newmarket what was meant for mankind, took a share
in a stable, and regulated his social and other engagements in London
not by the Order Book of the House of Commons, but by the fixtures
in the"

Racing Calendar. "He was seen only fitfully in his place at the corner seat behind his esteemed
friends and leaders then in office. A year later he went off to Mashonaland, and for a full Session
Westminster knew him no more. When the new Parliament began its sittings Lord Randolph in private
conversation was not less insistent as to the permanency of his act of renunciation. He was tired of politics,
he said, and saw no future for himself in an assembly where at one time he was a commanding figure.
Some of his friends, whilst puzzled and occasionally staggered by his insistence on this point,
have always refused to accept his view of the possibilities of the future. A dyspeptic duck gloomily
eyeing an old familiar pond might protest that never again would it enter the water. But as long
as the duck lives and the water remains, they are certain to come together
again.

So it has been with Lord Randolph Churchill, who in this Session has, quite naturally, returned
to his old haunts, and with a single speech regained much of his
old position.

It
is possible that accident, untoward in itself, may have had something
to do with hastening the conclusion.

When the House first met amid a fierce tussle for seats, Lord Randolph found his place at the
corner of the second bench in peril of appropriation. If he desired to retain it, it would
obviously be necessary for him to be down every day in time for prayers. Rather than face that discipline
he would suffer the company of his old colleagues on the Front Opposition Bench. As a Privy Councillor
and ex-Minister he had a right to a seat on that bench equal, at least, to that of Sir Ellis
Ashmead-Bartlett. One evening, coming in at question time and finding his seat appropriated by an
Irish member, he dropped on to the remote end of the Front Opposition Bench, hoping he did not
intrude. His old colleagues warmly welcomed him, made much of him, entreated him to go up higher, and
it came to pass that the House of Commons grew accustomed to seeing the strayed reveller sitting
in close companionship with Mr. Arthur Balfour.

If the whole story of the tragedy of Christmas, 1886, were known,
it would appear more remarkable still that from time to time he should
have been observed in friendly conversation with Mr. Goschen.

It was from this quarter that, within the first fortnight of the Session, Lord Randolph rose to make
his rentrée. It was characteristic of him that he had sat silent through the long debate on the
Address. That meant nothing, except the occupation of a certain space of time. There was no substantial
amendment before the House, nor any prospect of the existence of the
new Government being challenged on a division.

But when the Home Rule Bill was brought in, things were different; there was a tangible substance round which
statesmen might give battle. It was known that Lord Randolph would resume the debate on this particular
night, and the thronged state of the House testified to the deathless
personal interest he commands.

Not since Mr. Gladstone had, a few nights earlier, risen to expound the Bill was the House so
crowded. The Prince of Wales, accompanied by the Duke of York, returned to his seat over the clock, whilst
noble lords jostled each other in the effort to obtain seats in the limited space allotted
to them. It happened that the débutant was destined to undergo a serious and unexpected ordeal.
His time should have come not later than five o'clock, questions being then over, and the House
permitted to settle down to the business of the day. But there intervened a riotous scene, arising
on a question of a breach of privilege.

There are many interesting things connected with the history of this town. It bore its part
in the Indian Wars. Here was organized an Indian fighting expedition that went to the North,
and, though some of the men in that expedition were lost and the expedition was not altogether
successful, it showed, the spirit, the resolution, the bravery, and the courage which animated
the men of those days.

Mr. Young has referred to that day in Massachusetts history that we are all so proud of, the
Nineteenth of April, 1775. But you had an interesting event here in this town leading up to
that great day. General Gage was in command of the British forces at Boston. There had been
gathered supplies for carrying on a war out here through Middlesex County and out to the west
in Worcester. History tells us that he sent out here Sergeant Howe and other spies, in order
that he might find out what the conditions were and whether it would be easy for the British
troops to come out here and seize those supplies and break what they thought was the idea on
the part of the colonists of starting a rebellion. Sergeant Howe came out here, went to the
hotel, where, of course, the landlord received him hospitably, but informed him that probably
it wouldn't be a healthy place for him to stay for a very long time, and sent him away in the
dead of the night. He went back to Boston and made a report to the General in which he said
that the people of this vicinity were generally resolved to be free or to die. That was the
spirit of those times; and he advised the Britishers that if they wanted to go out to Worcester
they would probably need an expedition of ten thousand men and a sufficient train of artillery,
and he doubted whether, if such an expedition as that were sent out, any part of it would return
alive. On account of the report that he brought back it was determined by the British authorities
that it was more prudent to go up to Concord than it was to come out here on the way to Worcester.
That was the reason that the expedition on that Nineteenth of April was started for Concord
rather than through here for Worcester.

Of course, there are many other interesting events in the history of this town. You had here
many men who have seen military service. You furnished a large number for the Revolutionary
War and a large amount of money. You furnished as your quota one hundred and twenty-six soldiers
that went into the army from 1861 to 1865. But you were doing here what they were doing all
over the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. I doubt if the leading and prominent and decisive part
that Massachusetts played in the great Revolutionary War is generally understood. It is interesting
to recall that when General Washington came here he seems to have come with somewhat of a prejudice
against New England men. I think there are extant letters which he wrote at that time rather
reflecting upon what the New England men were doing and the character of Massachusetts men
of those days. But that was not his idea at the end of the war. Then, although he had been
brought up far to the south, he had a different idea. Then he said, and said very generously,
that he thought well of New England men and had it not been for their support, had it not been
for the men, the materials and munitions that they supplied to the Revolutionary forces, the
war would not have been a success. His name is interestingly connected with your town of Weston.

You have had here not only an interesting population but an interesting location. It was through
this town that the great arteries of travel ran to the west and south and to the north. When
Burgoyne surrendered, some of his troops were brought through this town on their way to the
sea-coast. When Washington came up to visit New England after he had been President, he came
through the town of Weston, and I do not know whether this is any reflection on the cooking
of those days in the towns to the west, but it says in the history of the town of Weston that
at one time when Washington stopped at the hotel in Wayland, although the hostess had provided
what she thought was a very fine banquet, he left his staff to eat that and went out into the
kitchen to help himself to a bowl of bread and milk. I suppose he would not be thought to have
done that because he was a candidate for office and wanted to appear as one of the plain people,
because that was after he had served in the office of President. But he stopped here in the
town of Weston and was entertained here at the hotel. And many other great men passed through
here and were entertained here from the time when we were colonies clear up to the time when
the railroads were established along in the middle of the last century.

So this town has had a long and interesting history, and has done its part in building up Massachusetts
and giving her strength to take her part in the history of this great Nation. And it is pleasant
to see how the work that the fathers have done before us is bearing fruit in these times of
ours. It is interesting to see this beautiful building. It is interesting to know that you
have a town planning committee who are placing this building in a situation where it will contribute
to the physical beauty of this historic town. We have not given the time and the attention
and the thought that we should have given to things of that kind in Massachusetts. We have
been too utilitarian. We have thought that if a building was located in some place where we
could have access to it, where it could be used, where it could transact the business of the
town, that was enough. We are coming to see in these modern days that that is not enough; that
we need not only utilitarian motives, but that we need to give some time, some thought and
attention to the artistic in life; that we need to concern ourselves not only with the material
but give some thought to the spiritual; that we need to pay some attention to the beautiful
as well as to that which is merely useful.

These things are appreciated. Weston is doing something along these lines and building her
public buildings and laying out her public square or her common (as it was known in the old
days) so they will be things of beauty as well as things of use. Let us dedicate this building
to these new purposes. Let us dedicate it to the glorious history of the past. Let us dedicate
it to the sacrifice that is required in these present days. Let us dedicate it to the hope
of the future. Let us dedicate it to New England ideals--those ideals that have made Massachusetts
one of the strong States of the Nation; strong enough so that in Revolutionary days we contributed
far in excess of our portion of men and money to that great struggle; strong enough so that
the whole Nation has looked to Massachusetts in days of stress for comfort and support.

We are very proud of our democracy. We are very proud of our form of government. We believe
that there is no other nation on earth that gives to the individual the privileges and the
rights that he has in America. The time has come now when we are going to defend those rights.
The time has come when the world is looking to America, as the Nation has looked to Massachusetts
in the past, to stand up and defend the rights of the individual. Sovereignty, it is our belief,
is vested in the individual; and we are going to protect the rights of the individual. It is
an auspicious moment to dedicate here in New England one of our town halls, an auspicious moment
in which to dedicate it to the supremacy of those ideals for which the whole world is fighting
at the present time; that the rights of the individual as they were established here in the
past may be maintained by us now and carried to a yet greater development in the future. Without
them civilization as we know it would fall from mankind in a night. They minister not alone
to their own students, they minister to all humanity.

It is this same ancient spirit which, coming to the defence of the Nation, has in this new
day of peril made nearly every college campus a training field for military service, and again
sent graduate and undergraduate into the fighting forces of our country. They are demonstrating
again that they are the strongholds of ordered liberty and individual freedom. This has ever
been the distinguishing characteristic of the American institution of learning. They have believed
in democracy because they believed in the nobility of man; they have served society because
they have looked upon the possession of learning not as conferring a privilege but as laying
on a duty. They have taught and practised the precept that the greater man's power the greater
his obligation. The supreme choice is righteousness. It is that "moral power" to which Professor
Tyler referred as the great contribution of college men to the cause of the Union.

The Nation is taking a military census, it is thinking now in terms of armament. The officers
of government are discussing manpower, transportation by land and sea and through the air,
the production of rifles, artillery, and explosives, the raising of money by loans and taxation.
The Nation ought to be most mightily engaged in this work. It must put every ounce of its resources
into the production and organization of its material power. But these are to a degree but the
outward manifestations of something yet more important. The ultimate result of all wars and
of this war has been and will be determined by the moral power of the nations engaged. On that
will depend whether armies "ray out darkness" or are the source of light and life and liberty.
Without the support of the moral power of the Nation armies will prove useless, without a moral
victory, whatever the fortunes of the battlefield, there can be no abiding peace.

Whatever the difficulties of an exact definition may be the manifestations of moral power are
not difficult to recognize. The life of America is rich with such examples. It has been predominant
here. It established thirteen colonies which were to a large degree self-sustaining and self-governing.
They fought and won a revolutionary war. What manner of men they were, what was the character
of their leadership, was attested only in part by Saratoga and Yorktown. Washington had displayed
great power on many fields of battle, the colonists had suffered long and endured to the end,
but the glory of military power fades away beside the picture of the victorious general, returning
his commission to the representatives of a people who would have made him king, and retiring
after two terms from the Presidency which he could have held for life, and the picture of a
war-worn people turning from debt, disorder, almost anarchy, not to division, not to despotism,
but to national unity under the ordered liberty of the Federal Constitution.

It was manifested again in the adoption and defence by the young nation of that principle which
is known as the Monroe Doctrine that European despotism should make no further progress in
the Western Hemisphere. It is in the great argument of Webster replying to Hayne and the stout
declaration of Jackson that he would treat nullification as treason. It was the compelling
force of the Civil War, expounded by Lincoln in his unyielding purpose to save the Union but
"with malice toward none, with charity for all," which General Grant, his greatest soldier,
put into practice at Appomattox when he sent General Lee back with his sword, and his soldiers
home to the plantations, with their war horses for the spring plowing. And at the conclusion
of the Spanish War it is to the ever-enduring credit of our country that it exacted not penalties,
but justice, and actually compensated a defeated foe for public property that had come to our
hands in the Philippines as the result of the fortunes of battle. But what of the present crisis?
Is the heart of the Nation still sound, does it still respond to the appeal to the high ideals
of the past? If those two and one half years, before the American declaration of war, shall
appear, when unprejudiced history is written, to have been characterized by patience, forbearance,
and self-restraint, they will add to the credit of former days. If they were characterized
by selfishness, by politics, by a balancing of expediency against justice they will be counted
as a time of ignominy for which a victorious war would furnish scant compensation.

XVI

MESSAGE FOR THE BOSTON POST

APRIL 22, 1918

The nation with the greatest moral power will win. Of that are born armies and navies and the
resolution to endure. Have faith in the moral power of America. It gave independence under
Washington and freedom under Lincoln. Here, right never lost. Here, wrong never won. However
powerful the forces of evil may appear, somewhere there are more powerful forces of righteousness.
Courage and confidence are our heritage. Justice is our might. The outcome is in your hand,
my fellow American; if you deserve to win, the Nation cannot lose. This assemblage on the one
hundred and forty-third anniversary of the Battle of Bunker Hill tells not only of the spirit
of that day but of the spirit of to-day. What men worship that will they become. The heroes
and holidays of a people which fascinate their soul reveal what they hold are the realities
of life and mark out a line beyond which they will not retreat, but at which they will stand
to overcome or die. They who reverence Bunker Hill will fight there. Your true patriot sees
home and hearthstone in the welfare of his country.

Rightly viewed, then, this day is set apart for an examination of ourselves by recounting the
deeds of the men of long ago.

What was there in the events of the seventeenth day of June, 1775, which holds the veneration
of Americans and the increasing admiration of the world? There are the physical facts not too
unimportant to be unworthy of reiteration even in the learned presence of an Historical Society.
A detachment of men clad for the most part in the dress of their daily occupations, standing
with bared heads and muskets grounded muzzle down in the twilight glow on Cambridge Common,
heard Samuel Langdon, President of Harvard College, seek divine blessing on their cause and
marched away in the darkness to a little eminence at Charlestown, where, ere the setting of
another sun, much history was to be made and much glory lost and won. When a new dawn had lifted
the mists of the Bay, the British, under General Howe, saw an intrenchment on Breed's Hill,
which must be taken or Boston abandoned. The works were exposed in the rear to attack from
land and sea. This was disdained by the king's soldiers in their contempt for the supposed
fighting ability of the Americans. Leisurely, as on dress parade, they assembled for an assault
that they thought was to be a demonstration of the uselessness of any armed resistance on the
part of the Colonies. In splendid array they advanced late in the day. A few straggling shots
and all was still behind the parapet. It was easier than they had expected. But when they reached
a point where 'tis said the men behind the intrenchments could see the whites of their eyes,
they were met by a withering fire that tore their ranks asunder and sent them back in disorder,
utterly routed by their despised foes. In time they form and advance again but the result is
the same. The demonstration of superiority was not a success. For a third time they form, not
now for dress parade, but for a hazardous assault. This time the result was different. The
patriots had lost nothing of courage or determination but there was left scarcely one round
of powder. They had no bayonets. Pouring in their last volley and still resisting with clubbed
muskets, they retired slowly and in order from the field. So great was the British loss that
there was no pursuit. The intensity of the battle is told by the loss of the Americans, out
of about fifteen hundred engaged, of nearly twenty per cent, and of the British, out of some
thirty-five hundred engaged, of nearly thirty-three per cent, all in one and one half hours.

It was the story of brave men bravely led but insufficiently equipped. Their leader, Colonel
Prescott, had walked the breastworks to show his men that the cannonade was not particularly
dangerous. John Stark, bringing his company, in which were his Irish compatriots, across Charlestown
Neck under the guns of the battleships, refused to quicken his step. His Major, Andrew McCleary,
fell at the rail fence which he had held during the day. Dr. Joseph Warren, your own son of
Roxbury, fell in the retreat, but the Americans, though picking off his officers, spared General
Howe. They had fought the French under his brother.

Such were some of the outstanding deeds of the day. But these were the deeds of men and the
deeds of men always have an inward significance. In distant Philadelphia, on this very day,
the Continental Congress had chosen as the Commander of their Army, General George Washington,
a man whose clear vision looked into the realities of things and did not falter. On his way
to the front four days later, dispatches reached him of the battle. He revealed the meaning
of the day with, one question, "Did the militia fight?" Learning how those heroic men fought,
he said, "Then the liberties of the Country are safe." No greater commentary has ever been
made on the significance of Bunker Hill.

We read events by what goes before and after. We think of Bunker Hill as the first real battle
for independence, the prelude to the Revolution. Yet these were both after-thoughts. Independence
Day was still more than a year away and then eight years from accomplishment. The Revolution
cannot be said to have become established until the adoption of the Federal Constitution. No,
on this June day, these were not the conscious objects sought. They were contending for the
liberties of the country, they were not yet bent on establishing a new nation nor on recognizing
that relationship between men which the modern world calls democracy. They were maintaining
well their traditions, these sons of Londonderry, lovers of freedom and anxious for the fray,
and these sons of the Puritans, whom Macaulay tells us humbly abased themselves in the dust
before the Lord, but hesitated not to set their foot upon the neck of their king.

It is the moral quality of the day that abides. It was the purpose of those plain garbed men
behind the parapet that told whether they were savages bent on plunder, living under the law
of the jungle, or sons of the morning bearing the light of civilization. The glorious revolution
of 1688 was fading from memory. The English Government of that day rested upon privilege and
corruption at the base, surmounted by a king bent on despotism, but fortunately too weak to
accomplish any design either of good or ill. An empire still outwardly sound was rotting at
the core. The privilege which had found Great Britain so complacent sought to establish itself
over the Colonies. The purpose of the patriots was resistance to tyranny. Pitt and Burke and
Lord Camden in England recognized this, and, loving liberty, approved the course of the Colonies.
The Tories here, loving privilege, approved the course of the Royal Government. Bunker Hill
meant that the Colonies would save themselves and saving themselves save the mother country
for liberty. The war was not inevitable. Perhaps wars are never inevitable. But the conflict
between freedom and privilege was inevitable. That it broke out in America rather than in England
was accidental. Liberty, the rights of man against tyranny, the rights of kings, was in the
air. One side must give way. There might have been a peaceful settlement by timely concessions
such as the Reform Bill of England some fifty years later, or the Japanese reforms of our own
times, but wanting that a collision was inevitable. Lacking a Bunker Hill there had been another
Dunbar.

The eighteenth century was the era of the development of political rights. It was the culmination
of the ideas of the Renaissance. It was the putting into practice in government of the answer
to the long pondered and much discussed question, "What is right?" Custom was giving way at
last to reason. Class and caste and place, all the distinctions based on appearance and accident
were giving way before reality. Men turned from distinctions which were temporal to those which
were eternal. The sovereignty of kings and the nobility of peers was swallowed up in the sovereignty
and nobility of all men. The inequal in quantity became equal in quality.

The successful solution of this problem was the crowning glory of a century and a half of America.
It established for all time how men ought to act toward each other in the governmental relation.
The rule of the people had begun.

Bunker Hill had a deeper significance. It was an example of the great law of human progress
and civilization. There has been much talk in recent years of the survival of the fittest and
of efficiency. We are beginning to hear of the development of the super-man and the claim that
he has of right dominion over the rest of his inferiors on earth. This philosophy denies the
doctrine of equality and holds that government is not based on consent but on compulsion. It
holds that the weak must serve the strong, which is the law of slavery, it applies the law
of the animal world to mankind and puts science above morals. This sounds the call to the jungle.
It is not an advance to the morning but a retreat to night. It is not the light of human reason
but the darkness of the wisdom of the serpent.

The law of progress and civilization is not the law of the jungle. It is not an earthly law,
it is a divine law. It does not mean the survival of the fittest, it means the sacrifice of
the fittest. Any mother will give her life for her child. Men put the women and children in
the lifeboats before they themselves will leave the sinking ship. John Hampden and Nathan Hale
did not survive, nor did Lincoln, but Benedict Arnold did. The example above all others takes
us back to Jerusalem some nineteen hundred years ago. The men of Bunker Hill were true disciples
of civilization, because they were willing to sacrifice themselves to resist the evils and
redeem the liberties of the British Empire. The proud shaft which rises over their battlefield
and the bronze form of Joseph Warren in your square are not monuments to expediency or success,
they are monuments to righteousness.

This is the age-old story. Men are reading it again to-day--written in blood. The Prussian
military despotism has abandoned the law of civilization for the law of barbarism. We could
approve and join in the scramble to the jungle, or we could resist and sacrifice ourselves
to save an erring nation. Not being beasts, but men, we choose the sacrifice.

This brings us to the part that America is taking at the end of its second hundred and fifty
years of existence. Is it not a part of that increasing purpose which the poet, the seer, tells
us runs through the ages? Has not our Nation been raised up and strengthened, trained and prepared,
to meet the great sacrifice that must be made now to save the world from despotism? We have
heard much of our lack of preparation. We have been altogether lacking in preparation in a
strict military sense. We had no vast forces of artillery or infantry, no large stores of munitions,
few trained men. But let us not forget to pay proper respect to the preparation we did have,
which was the result of long training and careful teaching. We had a mental, a moral, a spiritual
training that fitted us equally with any other people to engage in this great contest which
after all is a contest of ideas as well as of arms. We must never neglect the military preparation
again, but we may as well recognize that we have had a preparation without which arms in our
hands would very much resemble in purpose those now arrayed against us.

Are we not realizing a noble destiny? The great Admiral who discovered America bore the significant
name of Christopher. It has been pointed out that this name means Christ-bearer. Were not the
men who stood at Bunker Hill bearing light to the world by their sacrifices? Are not the men
of to-day, the entire Nation of to-day, living in accordance with the significance of that
name, and by their service and sacrifice redeeming mankind from the forces that make for everlasting
destruction? We seek no territory and no rewards. We give but do not take. We seek for a victory
of our ideas. Our arms are but the means. America follows no such delusion as a place in the
sun for the strong by the destruction of the weak. America seeks rather, by giving of her strength
for the service of the weak, a place in eternity.

XVIII

FAIRHAVEN

JULY 4, 1918

We have met on this anniversary of American independence to assess the dimensions of a kind
deed. Nearly four score years ago the master of a whaling vessel sailing from this port rescued
from a barren rock in the China Sea some Japanese fishermen. Among them was a young boy whom
he brought home with him to Fairhaven, where he was given the advantages of New England life
and sent to school with the boys and girls of the neighborhood, where he excelled in his studies.
But as he grew up he was filled with a longing to see Japan and his aged mother. He knew that
the duty of filial piety lay upon him according to the teachings of his race, and he was determined
to meet that obligation. I think that is one of the lessons of this day. Here was a youth who
determined to pursue the course which he had been taught was right. He braved the dangers of
the voyage and the greater dangers that awaited an absentee from his country under the then
existing laws, to perform his duty to his mother and to his native land. In making that return
I think we are entitled to say that he was the first Ambassador of America to the Court of
Japan, for his extraordinary experience soon brought him into the association of the highest
officials of his country, and his presence there prepared the way for the friendly reception
which was given to Commodore Perry when he was sent to Japan to open relations between that
Government and the Government of America.

And so we see how out of the kind deed of Captain Whitefield, friendly relations which have
existed for many years between the people of Japan and the people of America were encouraged
and made possible. And it is in recognition of that event that we have here to-day this great
concourse of people, this martial array, and the representative of the Japanese people--a people
who have never failed to respond to an act of kindness.

It was with special pleasure that I came here representing the Commonwealth of Massachusetts,
to extend an official welcome to His Excellency Viscount Ishii, who comes here to present to
the town of Fairhaven a Sumari sword on behalf of the son of that boy who was rescued long
ago. This sword was once the emblem of place and caste and arbitrary rank. It has taken on
a new significance because Captain Whitefield was true to the call of humanity, because a Japanese
boy was true to his call of duty. This emblem will hereafter be a token not only of the friendship
that exists between two nations but a token of liberty, of freedom, and of the recognition
by the Government of both these nations of the rights of the people. Let it remain here as
a mutual pledge by the giver and the receiver of their determination that the motive which
inspired the representatives of each race to do right is to be a motive which is to govern
the people of the earth. But these are not ordinary times. Our country is at war. There is
no way to save our party if our country be lost. And in the present crisis there is only one
way to save our country. We must support the State and National Governments in whatever they
request for the conduct of the war. The Constitution makes the President Commander-in-Chief
of the Army and Navy. What he needs should be freely given. This has been and will be the policy
of the Republican administration of Massachusetts and of her Senators and Representatives in
Congress. We seek no party advantage from the distress of our country. Among Republicans there
will be no political profiteering.

It is a year and four months now since we declared the German Government was making war on
America. We are beginning to see what our requirements are. We had a small but efficient standing
army, and a larger but less efficient National Guard. These have been increased by enlistments.
We have a new national force,--never to be designated as Conscripts, but as the accepted soldiers
of a whole Nation that has volunteered, of almost unlimited numbers. By taxation and by three
Liberty Loans, each over-subscribed by more than fifty per cent, we have demonstrated that
there will be no lack of money. The problem of the production and conservation of food is being
met, though not yet without some inconvenience, yet so far with very little suffering. The
remaining factor is the production of the necessary materials for carrying on the war. We lack
ships and military supplies. Whether these are secured in time in sufficient quantity will
depend in a large measure upon the attitude of the people managing and employed in these industries.
The attitude of the leaders of organized labor has been patriotic. They realize that this is
a war to preserve the rights that have been won for the people, and they have at all times
advised their fellow workmen to remain at work. There must be forbearance on all sides. Where
wages are too low they should be increased voluntarily. Where there is disagreement the Government
has provided means for investigation and adjustment. Our industrial front must keep pace with
our military front.

We are demonstrating the ability of America. Within the last few days the report has come to
us that our soldiers have defeated the Prussian Guard. The sneer of Germany at America is vanishing.
It is true that the German high command still couple American and African soldiers together
in intended derision. What they say in scorn, let us say in praise. We have fought before for
the rights of all men irrespective of color. We are proud to fight now with colored men for
the rights of white men. It would be fitting recognition of their worth to send our American
negro, when that time comes, to inform the Prussian military despotism on what terms their
defeated armies are to be granted peace.

While the victories that have recently come to our arms are most encouraging, they should only
stimulate us to redoubled efforts. The only hope of a short war is to prepare for a long one.
In this work the States play a most important part. Massachusetts must be kept so organized
and governed as to continue that able, effective, and prompt coöperation with the National
Government that has marked the past progress of the war. In this we have a great part to do
here. It was for such a task that the Republican Party came into being sixty-four years ago.
One of the resolutions adopted at its birth peculiarly dedicates it to the requirements of
the present hour.

"Resolved, that in view of the necessity of battling for the first principles of republican
government and against the schemes of an aristocracy, the most revolting and oppressive with
which the earth was ever cursed, or man debased, we will coöperate and be known as 'Republicans'
until the contest be terminated."

This great work lies before our party in Massachusetts. We shall go on battling for the first
principles of Republican government until it has been secured to all the people of the earth.

Our American forces on sea and land are proving sufficient to turn the tide in favor of the
Allied cause. They could not succeed alone, we could not succeed alone. We are furnishing a
reserve power that is bringing victory.

But America must furnish more than armies and navies for the future. If armies and navies were
to be supreme, Germany would be right. There are other and greater forces in the world than
march to the roll of the drum. As we are turning the scale with our sword now, so hereafter
we must turn the scale with the moral power of America. It must be our disinterested plans
that are to restore Europe to a place through justice when we have secured victory through
the sword. And into a new world we are to take not only the people of oppressed Europe but
the people of America. Out of our sacrifice and suffering, out of our blood and tears, America
shall have a new awakening, a rededication to the cause of Washington and Lincoln, a firmer
conviction for the right. The man who refuses to sell at a fine price whatever he may have
that is necessary for the conduct of the war is a profiteer. One man seeks to help his country
at his own expense, the other seeks to help himself at his country's expense. One is willing
to suffer himself that his country may prosper, the other is willing his country should suffer
that he may prosper.

In ordinary times these difficulties are taken care of by the operation of the law of supply
and demand. If the price is too high the buyer has time to go elsewhere. In war the element
of time is one of the chief considerations. When what is wanted is once found it must be made
available at once. The principle of trusteeship also comes into more immediate operation. It
is recognized in time of peace that the public may take what it may need of private property
for the general welfare, paying a fair compensation, and that the right to own property carries
with it the duty of using it for the welfare of our fellow man. The time has gone by when one
may do what he will with his own. He must use his property for the general good or the very
right to hold private property is lost.

These are some of the rules to be observed in the relationship between man and man. To see
that these rules are properly enforced, governments are formed. When they are not observed--when
the strong refuse voluntary justice to the weak--then it is time for the strong arm of the
law through the public officers to intervene and see that the weak are protected. This can
usually be done by the enactment of a law which all will try to obey, but when this course
has failed there is no remedy save by the process of law to take from the wrong-doer his power
in the future to do harm.

America is built on faith in the individual, faith in his will and power to do right of his
own accord, but equally is the determination that the individual shall be protected against
whatsoever force may be brought against him. We believe in him not because of what he has,
but what he is. But this is a practical faith. It does not rest on any silly assumption that
virtue is the reward of anything but effort or that liberty can be secured at the price of
anything but eternal vigilance.

It is in recognition of these principles and conditions that the General Court of last year
gave the Governor power to make rules for the use by individuals of their property during the
war for the general defence of the Commonwealth, and on failure on their part so to use their
property, to take possession of it for such term as may be necessary. Up to the present time
it has not been necessary to take property. Our faith in the patriotism of our citizens has
been amply demonstrated. Of our four millions of people few have failed voluntarily to use
their every resource for the defence of the Nation. But of late there have been some complaints
of too high charges for rent in war-material centres. In some cases patriotic workmen engaged
in labor most vital to our country's salvation have been threatened with eviction by profiteering
landlords unless they paid exorbitant rents. No one is undertaking to say that rents must on
no account be raised. But the Executive Department of Massachusetts is undertaking to say that
in any case where rents are unreasonably raised to the detriment of people who are just as
essential to our victory as the soldier in the field, if any one is to be evicted from such
premises it will be the persons who are raising rents and not the persons who are asked to
pay them. This action is taken to protect the Nation. It is taken in our desire and determination
here to coöperate with the Federal Government in every activity that is necessary to the prosecution
of the war. It is taken also for the protection of the individual. We do not care how humble
he may be, we do not care how exalted the landlord may be, justice shall be done.

This is not to be taken as an offer on the part of the Commonwealth to have unloaded on it
a large amount of property at a high price. Possession may be taken, but the ownership will
not change. Unless reasonable rents are charged, the tenant will stay in possession, but the
rent which the Commonwealth shall pay for occupation will be determined by a jury. This means
justice, nothing more, nothing less--justice to the tenant, justice to the landlord. It is
not to be inferred that our real estate owners have lacked anything as a class in patriotism.
They are our most loyal, most self-sacrificing, most commendable citizens. Massachusetts by
its Homestead Commission is encouraging its citizens to own real estate because such ownership
is a sheet anchor to self-government. But it is a proclamation of warning to profiteers, of
approbation and approval to patriots, and of assurance and assistance to the working people
and rent payers of our Commonwealth. We come not as partisans but as patriots. We come to pledge
anew our faith in all that America means and to declare our firm determination to defend her
within and without from every foe. Above that we come to pay our tribute of wonder and admiration
at the great achievements of our Nation and at the glory which they are shedding around her.
The past four years has shown the world the existence of a conspiracy against mankind of a
vastness and a wickedness that could only be believed when seen in operation and confessed
by its participants. This conspiracy was promoted by the German military despotism. It probably
was encouraged by the results of three wars--one against Denmark which robbed her of territory,
one against Austria which robbed her of territory, and one against France which robbed her
of territory and a cash indemnity of a billion dollars. These seemingly easy successes encouraged
their perpetrators to plan for the pillage and enslavement of the earth.

To accomplish this, the German despotism began at home. By a systematic training the whole
German people were perverted. A false idea of their own greatness was added to their contempt
and hate of other nations, who, they were taught, were bent on their destruction. The military
class were exalted and all else degraded. Thus was laid the foundation for the atrocities which
have marked their conduct of the war.

The vastness of the conquest planned has recently been revealed by August Thyssen, one of the
greatest steel men of the empire. He tells of a calling together, in the years before the war,
of the industrial and banking interests of the Nation, when a plan of war was laid before them,
and their support secured by the promise of spoils. France, India, Canada, Australia were to
be given over to German satraps. His share was 30,000 acres in Australia, with $750,000 provided
by the Government for its development. This was the promise made by the Kaiser. Here was the
motive of the war.

How it was provoked is told by Prince Lichnowski, the Ambassador of Germany to London. He shows
how he had reached agreements for a treaty which would show the good will of Great Britain.
Berlin refused to sign it unless it should be kept secret. He shows how Germany used Austria
to attack Serbia; how mediations were refused; when Austria was about to withdraw, Germany
sent an ultimatum to Russia one day and the next day declared war.

This diplomat sums up the whole case when he says: "I had to support in London a policy the
heresy of which I recognized. That brought down vengeance on me because it was a sin against
the Holy Ghost." What an indictment of Germany from her own confession! A plan to use the revelations
of science for the sack and slavery of the earth; the degradation, perversion, corruption of
a whole people, and by those who should have been the wardens of their righteousness, done
for the temporal glory of a military caste, and all in the name of divine right.

Much of this was not known in America when we declared war. It is with great difficulty we
realize it now. We had seen Germany going from infamy to infamy. We did know of the violated
treaty of Belgium, of the piracy, the murder of women and children, the destruction of the
property and lives of our neutral citizens, and finally the plain declaration of the German
Imperial Government that it would wantonly and purposely destroy the property and lives of
any American citizen who exercised his undoubted legal right to sail certain portions of the
sea. This attempt to declare law for America by an edict from Potsdam we resisted by the sword.
We see at last not only the hideous wickedness which perpetrated the war, we see that it is
a world war, that Germany struck not only at Belgium, she struck at us, she struck at our whole
system of civilization. A wicked purpose, which a vain attempt to realize has involved its
authors in more and more wickedness. We hear that even among the civil population of Germany
crime is rampant.

Looking now at this condition of Germany and her Allies, it is time to inquire what America
and her Allies have to offer as a remedy, and what effect the application of such remedy has
had upon ourselves. We have drawn the sword, but is it only to

     "Be blood for blood, for treason treachery?"

Are we seeking merely to match infamy with infamy, merely to pillage and destroy those who
threatened to pillage and destroy us? No; we have taken more than the sword, lest we perish
by the sword; we have summoned the moral power of the Nation. We have recognized that evil
is only to be overcome by good. We have marshalled the righteousness of America to overwhelm
the wickedness of Germany. A new spirit has come over the nation the like of which was never
seen before. We can see it not only in the new purity of camp life, in the heroism of our soldiers
as they fight in the faith and for the faith of the fathers, but we see it in the healing influences
which a righteous purpose has had upon the evils which beset us.

We entered the war a people of many nationalities. We are united now; every one is first an
American. We were beset with jealousies, and envy, and class prejudice. Service in the camp
has taught each soldier to respect the other, whatever his source, and a mutual sympathy at
home has brought all into a common citizenship. The service flag is a great leveller.

Our industrial life has been purified of prejudice. No one is complaining now that any concern
is too large, too strong. All see that the great organizations of capital in industry are our
salvation. Labor has taken on a new dignity and nobility. When the idle see the necessity of
work, when we begin to recognize industry as essential, the working man begins to have paid
him the honor which is his due.

Invention, chemistry, medicine, surgery, have been stimulated and improved. Even our agriculture
has taken on more economical methods and increased production.

The call for man power has given a new idea of the importance of the individual, so that there
has been brought to the humblest the knowledge that he was not only important but his importance
was realized.

And with this has come the discovery of new powers, not only in the slouch whom military drill
has transformed into a man, but to labor that has found a new joy, satisfaction and efficiency
in its work. The entire activities of the Nation are tuned up.

The spirit of charity has been aroused. Hundreds of millions have been provided by voluntary
gifts for the Red Cross, Knights of Columbus, Hebrew Charities, and Christian Associations.
The people are turning to their places of worship with a new religious fervor. Everywhere selfishness
is giving way to service, idleness to industry, wastefulness to thrift.

The war is being won. It is being overwhelmingly won. A righteous purpose has not only strengthened
our arms abroad but exalted the Nation at home.

The great work before us is to keep this new spirit in the right path. The opportunity for
a military training, the beneficial results of its discipline, must be continued for the youth
of our country. The sacrifice necessary for national defence must hereafter never be neglected.
The virtues of war must be carried into peace. But this must not be done at the expense of
the freedom of the individual. It must be the expression of self-government and not the despotism
of a German military caste or a Russian Bolshevik state. We are in this war to preserve the
institutions that have made us great. The war has revealed to us their true greatness. All
argument about the efficiency of despotism and the incompetence of republics was answered at
the Marne and will be hereafter answered at the Rhine. We are not going to overcome the Kaiser
by becoming like him, nor aid Russia by becoming like her.

We see now that Prussian despotism was the natural ally of the Russian Bolshevik and the I.W.W.
here. Both exist to pervert and enslave the people; both seek to break down the national spirit
of the world for their own wicked ends. Both are doomed to failure. By taking our place in
the world, America is to become more American, as by doing his duty the individual develops
his own manhood. We see now that when the individual fails, whether it be from a despotism
or the dead level of a socialistic state, all has failed.

A new vision has come to the Nation, a vision that must never be obscured. It is for us to
heed it, to follow it. It is a revelation, but a revelation not of our weakness but of our
strength, not of new principles, but of the power that lies in the application of old doctrines.
May that vision never fade, may America inspired by a great purpose ever be able to say,

     "Mine eyes have seen the glory of the coming of the Lord."

XXII

TREMONT TEMPLE

NOVEMBER 2, 1918

To the greatest task man ever undertook our Commonwealth has applied itself, will continue
to apply itself with no laggard hand. One hundred and ninety thousand of her sons already in
the field, hundreds of millions of her treasure contributed to the cause, her entire citizenship
moved with a single purpose, all these show a determination unalterable, to prosecute the war
to a victory so conclusive, to a destruction of all enemy forces so decisive, that those impious
pretentions which have threatened the earth for many years will never be renewed. There can
be no discussion about it, there can be no negotiation about it. The country is united in the
conviction that the only terms are unconditional surrender.

This determination has arisen from no sudden impulse or selfish motive. It was forced upon
us by the plan and policy of Germany and her methods of waging war upon others. The main features
of it all have long been revealed while each day brings to light more of the details. We have
seen the studied effort to make perverts of sixty millions of German people. We know of the
corrupting of the business interests of the Empire to secure their support. We know that war
had been decreed before the pretext on which it was declared had happened. We know Austria
was and is the creature of Germany. We have beheld the violation of innocent Belgium, the hideous
outrages on soldier and civilian, the piracy, the murder of our own neutral citizens, and finally
there came the notice, which as an insult to America has been exceeded only by the recent suggestion
that we negotiate a peace with its authors,--the notice claiming dominion over our citizens
and authority to exclude our ships from the sea. The great pretender to the throne of the earth
thought the time had come to assert that we were his subjects. Two millions of our men already
in France, and each day ten thousand more are hastening to pay their respects to him at his
court in Berlin in person. He has our answer.

It would be a mistake to suppose we have already won the war. It is not won yet, but we have
reached the place where we know how to win it, and if we continue our exertions we shall win
it fully, completely, grandly, as becomes a great people contending for the cause of righteousness.

We entered the war late and without previous military preparation. The more clearly we discern
the beginning and the progress of the struggle, the more we must admire the great spirit of
those nations by whose side we fight. The more we know of the terrible price they paid, the
matchless sacrifices they magnificently endured--the French, the Italians, the British, the
Belgians, the Serbians, the Poles, and the misgoverned, misguided people of Russia--the bravery
of their soldiers in the field, the unflinching devotion of their people at home, and remember
that in no small sense they were doing this for us, that we have been the direct beneficiaries
of peoples who have given their all, the less disposition we have to think too much of our
own importance. But all this should not cause us to withhold the praise that is due our own
Army and Navy, or to overlook the fact that our people have met every call that patriotism
has made. The soldiers and sailors who fight under the Stars and Stripes are the most magnificent
body of men that ever took up arms for defence of a great cause. Man for man they surpass any
other troops on earth.

We must not forget these things. We must not neglect to record them for the information of
generations to come. The names and records of boards and commissions, relief societies, of
all who have engaged in financing the cause of government and charity, and other patriotic
work, should be preserved in the Library of the Commonwealth, and with these, our military
achievements. These will show how American soldiers met and defeated the Prussian Guard. They
will show also that in all the war no single accomplishment, on a like scale, excelled the
battle of St. Mihiel, carried out by American troops, with our own Massachusetts boys among
them, and that the first regiment to be decorated as a regiment for conspicuous service and
gallantry in our Army in France was the 104th, formerly of the old Massachusetts National Guard.
Such is our record and it cannot be forgotten.

In reaching the great decision to enter the war, in preparing the answer which speaks with
so much authority, in the only language that despotism can understand, America has arisen to
a new life. We have taken a new place among the nations. The Revolution made us a nation; the
Spanish War made us a world power, the present war has given us recognition as a world power.
We shall not again be considered provincial. Whether we desired it or not this position has
come to us with its duties and its responsibilities.

This new position should not be misunderstood. It does not mean any diminution of our national
spirit. It rather means that it should be intensified. The most outstanding feature of the
war has been the assertion of the national spirit. Each nationality is contending for the right
to have its own government, and in that is meeting with the sanction of the free peoples of
the earth. We are discussing a league of nations. Such a league, if formed, is not for the
purpose, must not be for the purpose, of diminishing the spirit or influence of our Nation,
but to make that spirit and influence more real and more effective. Believing in our Nation
thoroughly and unreservedly, confident that the evidence of the past and present justifies
that belief, it is our one desire to make America more American. There is no greater service
that we can render the oppressed of the earth than to maintain inviolate the freedom of our
own citizens.

Under our National Government the States are the sheet-anchors of our institutions. On them
falls the task of administering local affairs and of supporting the National Government in
peace and war. The success with which Massachusetts has met her local problems, the efficiency
with which she has placed her resources of men and materials at the disposal of the Nation,
has been unsurpassed. The efficient organization of the Commonwealth, which has proved itself
in time of stress, must be maintained undiminished. On the States will largely fall the task
of putting into effect the lessons of the war that are to make America more truly American.

One of our first duties is military training. The opportunity hereafter for the youth of the
Nation to receive instruction in the science of national defence should be universal. The great
problem which our present experience has brought is the development of man power. This includes
many questions, but especially public health and mental equipment. Sanitation and education
will require more attention in the future.

America has been performing a great service for humanity. In that service we have arisen to
a new glory. The people of the nation without distinction have been performing a great service
for America. In it they have realized a new citizenship. Prussianism fails. Americanism succeeds.
Education is to teach men not what to think but how to think. Government will take on new activities,
but it is not more to control the people, the people are more to control the Government.

We have come to the realization of a new brotherhood among nations and among men. It came through
the performance of a common duty. A brotherhood that existed unseen has been recognized at
last by those called to the camp and trenches and those working for their victory at home.
This spirit must not be misunderstood. It is not a gospel of ease but of work, not of dependence
but of independence, not of an easy tolerance of wrong but a stern insistence on right, not
the privilege of receiving but the duty of giving.

"Man proposes but God disposes." When Germany lit up her long toasted day with the lurid glare
of war, she thought the end of freedom for the peoples of the earth had come. She thought that
the power of her sword was hereafter to reign supreme over a world in slavery, and that the
divine right of a king was to be established forever. We have seen the drama drawing to its
close. It has shown the victory of justice and of freedom and established the divine rights
of the people. Through it is shining a new revelation of the true brotherhood of man. As we
see the purpose Germany sought and the result she will secure, the words of Holy Writ come
back to us--"The wrath of man shall praise Him."

XXIII

FANEUIL HALL

NOVEMBER 4, 1918

We need a word of caution and of warning. I am responsible for what I have said and what I
have done. I am not responsible for what my opponents say I have said or say I have done either
on the stump or in untrue political advertisements and untrue posters. I shall not deal with
these. I do not care to touch them, but I do not want any of my fellow citizens to misunderstand
my ignoring them as expressing any attitude other than considering such attempts unworthy of
notice when men are fighting for the preservation of our country.

Our work is drawing to a close--our patriotic efforts. We have had in view but one object--the
saving of America.

We shall accomplish that object first by winning the war. That means a great deal. It means
getting the world forever rid of the German idea. We can see no way to do this but by a complete
surrender by Germany to the Allies.

We stand by the State and National Governments in the prosecution of this object. I have reiterated
that we support the Commander-in-Chief in war work. He says that is so.

We want no delay in prosecuting the war. The quickest way is the way to save most lives and
treasure. We want to care for the soldiers and their dependents. That has been the recognized
duty of the Government for generations.

To save America means to save American institutions, it means to save the manhood and womanhood
of our country. To that we are pledged.

There will be great questions of reconstruction, social, industrial, economic and governmental
questions, that must be met and solved. They must be met with a recognition of a new spirit.

It is a time to keep our faith in our State, our Nation, our institutions, and in each other.
Doing that, the war will be won in the field and won in civil life at home.

XXIV

FROM INAUGURAL ADDRESS AS GOVERNOR

JANUARY 2, 1919

You are coming to a new legislative session under the inspiration of the greatest achievements
in all history. You are beholding the fulfilment of the age-old promise, man coming into his
own. You are to have the opportunity and responsibility of reflecting this new spirit in the
laws of the most enlightened of Commonwealths. We must steadily advance. Each individual must
have the rewards and opportunities worthy of the character of our citizenship, a broader recognition
of his worth and a larger liberty, protected by order--and always under the law. In the promotion
of human welfare Massachusetts happily may not need much reconstruction, but, like all living
organizations, forever needs continuing construction. What are the lessons of the past? How
shall they be applied to these days of readjustment? How shall we emerge from the autocratic
methods of war to the democratic methods of peace, raising ourselves again to the source of
all our strength and all our glory--sound self-government?

It is your duty not only to reflect public opinion, but to lead it. Whether we are to enter
a new era in Massachusetts depends upon you. The lessons of the war are plain. Can we carry
them on into peace? Can we still act on the principle that there is no sacrifice too great
to maintain the right? Shall we continue to advocate and practise thrift and industry? Shall
we require unswerving loyalty to our country? These are the foundations of all greatness.

Let there be a purpose in all your legislation to recognize the right of man to be well born,
well nurtured, well educated, well employed, and well paid. This is no gospel of ease and selfishness,
or class distinction, but a gospel of effort and service, of universal application.

Such results cannot be secured at once, but they should be ever before us. The world has assumed
burdens that will bear heavily on all peoples. We shall not escape our share. But whatever
may be our trials, however difficult our tasks, they are only the problems of peace, and a
victorious peace. The war is over. Whatever the call of duty now we should remember with gratitude
that it is nothing compared with the heavy sacrifice so lately made. The genius and fortitude
which conquered then cannot now fail.

XXV

STATEMENT ON THE DEATH OF THEODORE ROOSEVELT

The people of our Commonwealth have learned with profound sorrow of the death of Theodore Roosevelt.
No other citizen of the Nation would have brought in so large a degree the feeling of a common
loss. During the almost eight years he was President, the people came to see in him a reflection
of their ideals of the true Americanism.

He was the advocate of every good cause. He awakened the moral purpose of the Nation and raised
the standard of public service. He appealed to the imagination of youth and satisfied the judgment
of maturity. In him Massachusetts saw an exponent of her own ideals.

In token of the love and reverence which all the people bore him, I urge that the national
and state flags be flown at half-mast throughout the Commonwealth until after his funeral,
and that, when next the people gather for public worship, his loss be marked with proper ceremony.
No star, no sign, foretold his coming. About his cradle all was poor and mean save only the
source of all great men, the love of a wonderful woman. When she faded way in his tender years,
from her deathbed in humble poverty she dowered her son with greatness. There can be no proper
observance of a birthday which forgets the mother. Into his origin as into his life men long
have looked and wondered. In wisdom great, but in humility greater, in justice strong, but
in compassion stronger, he became a leader of men by being a follower of the truth. He overcame
evil with good. His presence filled the Nation. He broke the might of oppression. He restored
a race to its birthright. His mortal frame has vanished, but his spirit increases with the
increasing years, the richest legacy of the greatest century.

Men show by what they worship what they are. It is no accident that before the great example
of American manhood our people stand with respect and reverence. And in accordance with this
sentiment our laws have provided for a formal recognition of the birthday of Abraham Lincoln,
for in him is revealed our ideal, the hope of our country fulfilled.

Now, therefore, by the authority of Massachusetts, the 12th day of February is set apart as

LINCOLN DAY

and its observance recommended as befits the beneficiaries of his life and the admirers of
his character, in places of education and worship wherever our people meet one with another.

  CALVIN COOLIDGE

  By his Excellency the Governor,

  ALBERT P. LANGTRY,

  Secretary of the Commonwealth.

  God save the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. All America has but one
desire, the security of the peace by facts and by parchment which her
brave sons have wrought by the sword. It is a duty we owe alike to the
living and the dead.

Fortunate is Massachusetts that she has among her sons two men so eminently trained for the
task of our enlightenment, a senior Senator of the Commonwealth and the President of a university
established in her Constitution. Wherever statesmen gather, wherever men love letters, this
day's discussion will be read and pondered. Of these great men in learning, and experience,
wise in the science and practice of government, the first to address you is a Senator distinguished
at home and famous everywhere--Henry Cabot Lodge.

[After Senator Lodge spoke he introduced President Lowell:]

The next to address you is the President of Harvard University--an educator renowned throughout
the world, a learned student of statesmanship, endowed with a wisdom which has made him a leader
of men, truly a Master of Arts, eminently a Doctor of Laws, a fitting representative of the
Massachusetts domain of letters--Abbott Lawrence Lowell.

XXVIII

VETO OF SALARY INCREASE

TO THE HONORABLE SENATE AND HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES:

In accordance with the duty imposed by the Constitution, a bill entitled, "An act to establish
the compensation of the members of the General Court," being House No. 1629, is herewith returned
without approval.

This bill raises the salaries of members from $1000 to $1500, an increase of fifty per cent,
and is retroactive. It is necessary to decide whether the Commonwealth can well afford this
additional tax and whether any public benefit would accrue from it.

These are times that require careful scrutiny of public expenditure. The burden of taxes resulting
from war is heavy. The addition of $142,000 to the expense of the Commonwealth in perpetuity
is not to be undertaken but upon proven necessity.

Service in the General Court is not obligatory but optional. It is not to be undertaken as
a profession or a means of livelihood. It is a voluntary public service. In accord with the
principles of our democratic institutions a compensation has been given in order that talent
for service rather than the possession of property might be the standard of membership. There
is no man of sufficient talent in the Commonwealth so poor that he cannot serve for a session,
which averages about five months, and five days each week, at a salary of $1000--and travel
allowance of $2.50 for each mile between his home and the State House. This is too clear for
argument. There is no need to consider those who are too rich to serve for this sum. It would
be futile to discuss whether their services are worth more or less than this, as that is not
here the question. Membership in the General Court is not a job. There are services rendered
to the Commonwealth by senators and representatives that are priceless. For the searching out
of great principles on which legislation is based there is no adequate compensation. If value
for services were the criterion, there would be 280 different salaries. When membership is
sought as a means of livelihood, legislation will pass from a public function to a private
enterprise. Men do not serve here for pay. They seek work and places of responsibility and
find in that seeking, not in their pay, their honor.

The realities of life are not measured by dollars and cents. The skill of the physician, the
divine eloquence of the clergyman, the courage of the soldier, that which we call character
in all men, are not matters of hire and salary. No person was ever honored for what he received.
Honor has been the reward for what he gave. Public acclaim and the ceremonious recognition
paid to returning heroes are not on account of their government pay but of the service and
sacrifice they gave their country. The place each member of the General Court will hold in
the estimation of his constituents will never depend on his salary, but on the ability and
integrity with which he does his duty; not on what he receives, but on what he gives; and only
out of the bountifulness of his own giving will his constituents raise him to power. Not by
indulging himself, but by denying himself, will he reach success.

It is because the General Court has recognized these principles in its past history that it
has secured its high place as a legislative body. This act disregards all this and will ever
appear to be an undertaking by members to raise their own salaries. The fact that many were
thinking of the needs of others will remain unknown. Appearances cannot be disregarded. Those
in whom is placed the solemn duty of caring for others ought to think of themselves last or
their decisions will lack authority. There is apparent a disposition to deny the disinterestedness
and impartiality of government. Such charges are the result of ignorance and an evil desire
to destroy our institutions for personal profit. It is of infinite importance to demonstrate
that legislation is used not for the benefit of the legislator, but of the public.

The General Court of Massachusetts is a legislative body noted for its fairness and ability.
It has no superior. Its critics have for the most part come from the outside and have most
frequently been those who have approached it with the purpose of securing selfish desires of
their clients or themselves. A long familiarity with it increases respect for it. It is charged
with expressing the abiding convictions and conscience of the people of the Commonwealth. The
most solemn obligation placed by the Constitution on the Executive is the power to veto its
actions. In all matters affecting it the General Court is entitled to his best judgment and
carefully considered opinion. Anything less would be a mark of disrespect and disloyalty to
its members. That judgment and opinion, arrived at after a wide counsel with members and others,
is here expressed, in the light of an obligation which is not personal, "faithfully and impartially
to discharge and perform" the duties of a public office.

XXIX

FLAG DAY PROCLAMATION

MAY 26, 1919

Works which endure come from the soul of the people. The mighty in their pride walk alone to
destruction. The humble walk hand in hand with Providence to immortality. Their works survive.
When the people of the Colonies were defending their liberties against the might of kings,
they chose their banner from the design set in the firmament through all eternity. The flags
of the great empires of that day are gone, but the Stars and Stripes remain. It pictures the
vision of a people whose eyes were turned to the rising dawn. It represents the hope of a father
for his posterity. It was never flaunted for the glory of royalty, but to be born under it
is to be a child of a king, and to establish a home under it is to be the founder of a royal
house. Alone of all flags it expresses the sovereignty of the people which endures when all
else passes away. Speaking with their voice it has the sanctity of revelation. He who lives
under it and is loyal to it is loyal to truth and justice everywhere. He who lives under it
and is disloyal to it is a traitor to the human race everywhere. What could be saved if the
flag of the American Nation were to perish?

In recognition of these truths and out of a desire born of a purpose to defend and perpetuate
them, the Commonwealth of Massachusetts has by ordinance decreed that for one day of each year
their importance should be dwelt upon and remembered. Therefore, in accordance with that authority,
the anniversary of the adoption of the national flag, the 14th day of June next, is set apart as

FLAG DAY

and it is earnestly recommended that it be observed by the people of the Commonwealth by the
display of the flag of our country and in all ways that may testify to their loyalty and perpetuate
its glory.

XXX

AMHERST COLLEGE COMMENCEMENT

JUNE 18, 1919

To the son of any college, although he does not make his connection with his college a profession,
a return of Commencement Day recalls many memories. It is likely also, after nearly a quarter
of a century, to cause some reflections. It is, I suppose, to give tongue to such memories
and reflections that after-dinner speaking is provided. After all due allowance for change
of perspective, going to college was a greater event twenty-five years ago than it is to-day.
My own memories are not yet ancient enough to warrant their recalling. The greater events of
that day are too recent to need to be related.

But I should fail in my duty and neglect my deep conviction if I did not declare that in my
day there was no better place to educate a young man. Most of them came with a realization
that their coming meant a sacrifice at home. They may have lacked a proficiency in the arts
of the drawing room which sometimes brought a smile; but no competitor met the Amherst men
of that day on the athletic field or in the postgraduate school with a smile that did not soon
come off. They had their pranks and sprees, but they had the ideals of a true manhood. They
were moved with a serious purpose. He who had less lacked place among them. They are come and
gone from the campus, those men of the early nineties, and with them went the power to command.

Those were days that represented especially the spirit of President Seelye. Under his brilliant
and polished successor the Faculty changes were few. There was Professor Wood, the most accomplished
intellectual hazer of freshmen. There was Professor Gibbons, who was strong enough in Greek
derivation so that every second-year man soon had a clear conception of the meaning of sophomore.
After demonstrating clearly that on the negative side the derivation of "contiguity" was not
"con" and "tiguity," he advised those who could not with equal clearness demonstrate its derivation
on the positive side to look it up. There were Morse and Frink, Richardson, Hitchcock, Estey,
Crowell, Tyler, and Garman. All these and more are gone. The living, no less eminent, I need
not recall. As a teaching force, as an inspirer of youth, for training men how to think, that
faculty has had and will have nowhere any superior.

     "So passed that pageant."

The college of to-day has taken on a new life, a new activity. Military training then was a
spectacle for the Massachusetts Agricultural College. To-day Amherst welcomes its returning
soldiers, and but a little time since divested itself of the character of a military camp to
resume the wonted garb of peace. Yet it is and has been the same institution,--a college of
the liberal arts. In this so-called practical age Amherst has chosen for her province the most
practical of all,--the culture and the classics of all time.

Civilization depends not only upon the knowledge of the people, but upon the use they make
of it. If knowledge be wrongfully used, civilization commits suicide. Broadly speaking, the
college is not to educate the individual, but to educate society. The individual may be ignorant
and vicious. If society have learning and virtue, that will sustain him. If society lacks learning
and virtue, it perishes. Education must give not only power but direction. It must minister
to the whole man or it fails.

Such an education considered from the position of society does not come from science. That
provides power alone, but not direction. Give a savage tribe firearms and a distillery, and
their members will exterminate each other. They have science all right, but misuse it. They
lack ideals. These young men that we welcome back with so much pride did not go forth to demonstrate
their faith in science. They did not offer their lives because of their belief in any rule
of mathematics or any principle of physics or chemistry. The laws of the natural world would
be unaffected by their defeat or victory. No; they were defending their ideals, and those ideals
came from the classics.

This is preëminently true of the culture of Greece and Rome. Patriotism with them was predominant.
Their heroes were those who sacrificed themselves for their country, from the three hundred
at Thermopylæ to Horatius at the bridge. Their poets sang of the glory of dying for one's native
land. The orations of Demosthenes and Cicero are pitched in the same high strain. The philosophy
of Plato and Aristotle and the Greek and Latin classics were the foundation of the Renaissance.
The revival of learning was the revival of Athens and Sparta and of the Imperial City. Modern
science is their product. To be included with the classics are modern history and literature,
the philosophers, the orators, the statesmen, and poets,--Milton and Shakespeare, Lowell and
Whittier,--the Farewell Address, the Reply to Hayne, the Speech at Gettysburg,--it is all these
and more that I mean by the classics. They give not only power to the intellect, but direct
its course of action.

The classic of all classics is the Bible.

I do not underestimate schools of science and technical arts. They have a high and noble calling
in ministering to mankind. They are important and necessary. I am pointing out that in my opinion
they do not provide a civilization that can stand without the support of the ideals that come
from the classics.

The conclusion to be derived from this position is that a vocational or technical education
is not enough. We must have every American citizen well grounded in the classical ideals. Such
an education will not unfit him for the work of the world. Did those men in the trenches fight
any less valiantly, did they shrink any more from the hardships of war, when a liberal culture
had given a broader vision of what the great conflict meant? The discontent in modern industry
is the result of a too narrow outlook. A more liberal culture will reveal the importance and
nobility of the work of the world, whether in war or peace. It is far from enough to teach
our citizens a vocation. Our industrial system will break down unless it is humanized. There
is greater need for a liberal culture that will develop the whole man in the whole body of
our citizenship. The day when a college education will be the portion of all may not be so
far distant as it seems.

We live in a republic. Our Government is exercised through representatives. Their course of
action is a very accurate reflection of public opinion. Where shall that be formed and directed
unless from the influences, direct and indirect, that come from our institutions of learning.
The laws of a republic represent its ideals. They are founded upon public opinion, and public
opinion in America up to the present time has drawn its inspiration from the classics. They
tell us that Waterloo was won on the football fields of Rugby and Eton. The German war was
won by the influence of classical ideals. As a teacher of the classics, as a maker of public
opinion, as a source of wise laws, as the herald of a righteous victory,--Amherst College stands
on a foundation which has remained unchanged through the ages. May there be in all her sons
a conviction that with her abides Him who changes not.

XXXI

HARVARD UNIVERSITY COMMENCEMENT

JUNE 19, 1919

No college man who has ever glanced at the Constitution of Massachusetts is likely to miss
or forget the generous references there made to Harvard University. It may need a closer study
of that instrument, which is older than the American Constitution, to realize the full significance
of those most enduring of guaranties that could then be imposed in behalf of Massachusetts
institutions.

The convention which framed our Constitution has as its president James Bowdoin, a son of Harvard.
He was a man of great strength of character and cast an influence for good upon the deliberations
of his day worthy of a place in history more conspicuous than is generally accorded to him.
He had as his colleague on the floor no less a person than John Adams. It is not necessary
in this presence to designate his alma mater. There were others of importance, but these represented
the type of thought that prevailed.

In that noble Declaration of Rights the principles of freedom and equality were first declared.
Following this is set forth the right of religious liberty and the duty of citizens to support
places of religious worship and instruction; and in the Frame of Government, after establishing
the University, there is given to legislators and magistrates a mandate forever to cherish
and support the cause of education and institutions of learning. These were the declaration
of broad and liberal policies. They are capable of being combined, for in fact they declare
that teaching, whether it be by clergy or laity, is of an importance that requires it to be
surrounded with the same safeguards and guaranties as freedom and equality. John Adams and
James Bowdoin knew that freedom was the fruit of knowledge. Their conclusions were drawn from
the directions of Holy Writ--"Come, know the truth, and it shall make you free."

These principles there laid down with so much solemnity have now the same binding force as
in those revolutionary days when they were recognized and proclaimed. I am not unaware that
they are old. Whatever is, is old. It is but our own poor apprehension of it that is new. It
would be well if they were re-apprehended. It is not well if the great diversity of modern
learning has made the truth so little of a novelty that it lacks all reverence.

The days of the Revolution were days of reverence and of applied reverence. Teaching was to
a considerable extent in the hands of the clergy. Institutions of learning were presided over
by clergymen. The teacher spoke with the voice of authority. He was treated with deference.
He held a place in the community that was not only secure but high. The rewards of his services
were comparatively large. He was a leader of the people. From him came the inspiration of liberty.
It was in the meeting-houses that the Revolution was framed.

This dual character little exists now, but the principle is the same. Teaching is the same
high calling, but how lacking now in comparative appreciation. The compensation of many teachers
and clergymen is far less than the pay of unskilled labor. The salaries of college professors
are much less than like training and ability would command in the commercial world. We pay
a good price to bank men to guard our money. We compensate liberally the manufacturer and the
merchant; but we fail to appreciate those who guard the minds of our youth or those who preside
over our congregations. We have lost our reverence for the profession of teaching and bestowed
it upon the profession of acquiring.

This will have such a reaction as might be expected. Some of the clergy, seeing their own rewards
are disproportionate, will draw the conclusion that all rewards are disproportionate, that
the whole distribution of wealth is unsound; and turn to a belief in and an advocacy of some
kind of a socialistic state. Some of our teachers, out of a like discontent, will listen too
willingly to revolutionary doctrines which have not originated in meeting-houses but are the
importations of those who lack nothing but the power to destroy all that our civilization holds
dear. Unless these conditions are changed, these professions will not attract to their services
young men of the same comparative quality of ability and character that in the past they commanded.

In our pursuit of prosperity we have forgotten and neglected its foundations. It is true that
many of our institutions of learning are well endowed and have spacious buildings, but the
plant is not enough. Many modern schoolhouses put to shame any public buildings that were erected
in the Colonies. I am directing attention to the comparative position of the great mass of
teachers and clergymen. They are not properly appreciated or properly paid. They have provided
the foundations of our liberties. The importance of their position cannot be overestimated.
They have been faithful though neglected; but a state which neglects or refuses to support
any class will soon find that such class neglects and refuses to support it. The remedy lies
in part with private charity, in part with government action; but it lies wholly with public
opinion. Private charity must worthily support its clergymen and the faculty and instructors
of our higher institutions of learning; and the Government must adequately reward the teachers
in its schools. In the great bound forward which has been taken in a material way, these two
noble professions, the pillars of liberty and equality, have been neglected and left behind.
They must be reestablished. They must be restored to the place of reverence they formerly held.

The profession of teaching has come down to us with a sanction of antiquity greater than all
else. So far back as we can peer into human history there has stood a priesthood that has led
its people intellectually and morally. Teaching is leading. The fundamental needs of humanity
do not change. They are constant. These influences so potent in the development of Massachusetts
cannot be exchanged for a leadership that is bred of the market-place, to her advantage. We
must turn our eyes from what is to what ought to be. The men of the day of John Adams and James
Bowdoin had a vision that looked into the heart of things. They led a revolution that swept
on to a successful conclusion. They established a nation that has endured until its flag is
the ancient among the banners of the earth. Their counsel will not be mocked. The men of that
day almost alone in history brought a Revolution to its objective. Not only that, they reached
it in such a condition that it there remained. The counterattack of disorder failed entirely
to dislodge it. Their success lay entirely in the convictions they had. No nation can reject
these convictions and remain a republic. Anarchy or despotism will overwhelm it.

Massachusetts established Harvard College to be a defender of righteous convictions, of reverence
for truth and for the heralds of truth. The purpose set forth in the Constitution is clear
and plain. It recognizes with the clear conviction of men not thinking of themselves that the
cause of America is the cause of education, but of education with a soul, a trained intellect
but guided ever by an enlightened conscience. We of our day need to recognize with the same
vision that when these fail, America has failed.

XXXII

PLYMOUTH, LABOR DAY

SEPTEMBER 1, 1919

The laws of our country have designated the first Monday of each September as Labor Day. It
is truly an American day, for it was here that for the first time in history a government was
founded on a recognition of the sovereignty of the citizen which has irresistibly led to a
realization of the dignity of his occupation. It is with added propriety that this day is observed
this year. For the first time in five years it comes at a time when the issue of world events
makes it no longer doubtful whether the American conception of work as the crowning glory of
men free and equal is to prevail over the age-old European conception that work is the badge
of the menial and the inferior. The American ideal has prevailed on European battle-fields
through the loyalty, devotion, and sacrifice of American labor.

The duty of citizenship in this hour is to strive to maintain and extend that ideal at home.

The past five years have been a time of rapid change and great progress for the American people.
Not only have the hours and conditions of labor been greatly improved, but wages have increased
about one hundred per cent. There has been a great economic change for the better among all
wage-earners.

We have known that political power was with the people, because they have the votes. We have
generally supposed that economic power was not with the people, because they did not own the
property. This supposition, probably never true, is growing more and more to be contrary to
the facts. The great outstanding fact in the economic life of America is that the wealth of
the Nation is owned by the people of the Nation. The stockholders of the great corporations
run into the hundreds of thousands, the small tradesmen, the thrifty householders, the tillers
of the soil, the depositors in savings banks, and the now owners of government bonds, make
a number that includes nearly our entire people. This would be illustrated by a few Massachusetts
examples from figures which were reported in 1918:

Number of Stockholders

Railroads                        40,485
Street railways                  17,527
Telephone                        49,688
Western Union Telegraph           9,360
                                -------
                                117,060

Number of Employees

Railroads                        20,604
Street railways                  25,000
Telephone                        11,471
Western Union Telegraph           2,065
                                 ------
                                 59,140

Savings bank depositors       2,491,646

Railroad, street railway, and
telephone bonds held by
savings banks and savings
departments of trust companies
                           $267,795,636

Savings bank deposits    $1,022,342,583

Money is pouring into savings banks at the rate of $275,000 each working day.

Comment on these figures is unnecessary. There is, of course, some reduplication, but in these
four public service enterprises there are in Massachusetts almost twice as many direct owners
as there are employees. Two persons out of three have money in the savings bank--men, women,
and children. There is this additional fact: more than one quarter of the stupendous sum of
over a billion dollars of the savings of nearly two and a half million savings depositors is
invested in railroad, street railway, and telephone securities.

With these examples in mind it would appear that our problem of economic justice in Massachusetts,
where we live and for which alone we can legislate, is not quite so simple as assuming that
we can take from one class and give to another class. We are reaching and maintaining the position
in this Commonwealth where the property class and the employed class are not separate, but
identical. There is a relationship of interdependence which makes their interests the same
in the long run. Most of us earn our livelihood through some form of employment. More and more
of our people are in possession of some part of the wages of yesterday, and so are investors.
This is the ideal economic condition.

The great aim of our Government is to protect the weak--to aid them to become strong. Massachusetts
is an industrial State. If her people prosper, it must be by that means in some of its broad
avenues. How can our people be made strong? Only as they draw their strength from our industries.
How can they do that? Only by building up our industries and making them strong. This is fundamental.
It is the place to begin. These are the instruments of all our achievement. When they fail,
all fails. When they prosper, all prosper. Workmen's compensation, hours and conditions of
labor are cold, consolations, if there be no employment. And employment can be had only if
some one finds it profitable. The greater the profit, the greater the wages.

This is one of the economic lessons of the war. It should be remembered now when taxes are
to be laid, and in the period of readjustment. Taxes must be measured by the ability to meet
them out of surplus income. Industry must expand or fail. It must show a surplus after all
payments of wages, taxes, and returns to investors. Conscription can call once, then all is
over. Just requirements can be met again and again with ever-increasing ability.

Justice and the general welfare go hand in hand. Government had to take over our transportation
interests in order to do such justice to them that they could pay their employees and carry
our merchandise. They have been so restricted lest they do harm that they became unable to
do good. Their surplus was gone, and we New Englanders had to go without coal. Seeing now more
clearly than before the true interests of wage-earner, investor, and the public, which is the
consumer, we shall hereafter be willing to pay the price and secure the benefits of justice
to all these coördinate interests.

We have met the economic problem of the returning service men. They have been assimilated into
our industrial life with little delay and with no disturbance of existing conditions. The day
of adversity has passed. The American people met and overcame it. The day of prosperity has
come. The great question now is whether the American people can endure their prosperity. I
believe they can. The power to preserve America is in the same hands to-day that it was when
the German army was almost at the gates of Paris. That power is with the people themselves;
not one class, but all classes; not one occupation, but all occupations; not one citizen, but
all citizens.

During the past five years we have heard many false prophets. I left them with a hearty'God bless
you!'from all. After swimming some time, I lost sight of the boatman, and was left to myself. I swam
back a little, shouting as loud as I could; but getting no answer, and feeling for my own sake
that I must push on, I turned my head towards the mountain tops (my only guides), and struck out my best.
I must have been swimming for more than an hour when I landed. I found myself a little tired,
and very much benumbed, barefooted, en chemise, and not able to see ten yards before me, it was
so dark. My first impulse was to fall on my knees and thank Providence; after which, curious
to say, my military schooling came to my aid in the'extension motions,'which brought some little
feeling into my limbs, and enabled me to continue my work. After feeling my way for about
half an hour along the shore, shouting all the time, I came to a cottage, where I was hospitably received.
They told me that they had heard my cries some time, but fancied
I was some drunken man returning home, or else they would have come
out to my assistance.

The poor black gave me some dry clothes, and made me a cup of tea, and then conducted me to the proprietor
of the estate, who lived close by, and had the nearest pirogue (a small boat like a canoe, dug out
of a solid trunk of a large tree) in the neighbourhood. M. Chiron, the name of the proprietor, a
man of colour, as soon as I explained my situation and my want of a boat to go and assist the others,
immediately offered to go himself, and his son also insisted on going with him. I jumped at
the offer, of course, and we immediately walked down to where his
pirogue was moored, and started, myself at the bottom to serve as guide.
By the blessing of Providence, after about an hour's search, we heard
the cries from the wreck.

I think I never felt so happy or so light-hearted in my life as I did at this moment; for there were
so many chances against us finding it. We could not see many yards from our own boat. It
was then about eleven o'clock, so that my companions had been exposed on the boat for upwards
of five hours. Luckily, with great care, we got them safely into the pirogue, without capsizing
her; and by twelve o'clock we were safely housed under M. Chiron's hospitable roof, who fed, clothed,
and lodged us for the night. In the morning, the unfortunate Creole boatman was found dead, from
cold and cramp, about half a mile from the place he was supposed to have landed at. The kindness,
hospitality, and truly courageous assistance afforded us by M. Chiron, at the risk of his own life and
that of his son, are deserving of all praise. It was a service of danger to go out even at all
in a pirogue on such a rough night: much more to go and seek for
five drowning men three miles at sea.
It was by such men as settled Westfield, and two hundred and fifty years ago established by
law a chartered and ordered government, that the foundations of Massachusetts were laid. And
it was on the foundations of Massachusetts that there began that training of the people for
the great days that were to come, when they were prepared to endorse and support the principles
set out in the Declaration of Independence, the Constitution of the United States of America,
and the Emancipation Proclamation of Abraham Lincoln. Here were planted the same seeds of righteousness
victorious which later flourished with such abundance at Saratoga, at Gettysburg, and at the
second battle of the Marne. Stupendous results, the product of a people working with an everlasting
purpose.

While celebrating the history of Westfield, this day has been set apart to the memory of one
of her most illustrious sons, General William Shepard. To others are assigned the history of
your town and the biography of your soldier. Into those particulars I shall not enter. But
the principles of government and of citizenship which they so well represent, and nobly illustrate,
will never be untimely or unworthy of reiteration.

The political history of Westfield has seen the success of a great forward movement, to which
it contributed its part, in establishing the principle, that the individual in his rights is
supreme, and that "governments derive their just powers from the consent of the governed."
It is the establishment of liberty, under an ordered form of government, in this ancient town,
by the people themselves, that to-day draws us here in admiration of her achievements. When
we turn to the life of her patriot son we see that he no less grandly illustrated the principle,
that to such government, so established, the people owe an allegiance which has the binding
power of the most solemn obligation.

There is such a disposition in these days to deny that our Government was formed by, or is
now in control of, the people, that a glance at the history of the days of General Shepard
is peculiarly pertinent and instructive.

The Constitution of Massachusetts, with its noble Declaration of Rights, was adopted in 1780.
Under it we still live with scarce any changes that affect the rights of the people. The end
of the Revolutionary War was 1783. Shays's Rebellion was in 1787. The American Constitution
was ratified and adopted in 1788. These dates tell us what the form of government was in this
period.

If there are any who doubt that our institutions, formed in those days, did not establish a
peoples' government, let them study the action of the Massachusetts Convention which ratified
the Federal Constitution in 1788. Presiding over it was the popular patriot Governor John Hancock.
On the floor sat Samuel Adams, who had been the father of the Revolution, preëminent champion
of the liberty of the people. Such an influence had he, that his assertion of satisfaction,
was enough to carry the delegates. Like a majority of the members he came opposed to ratification.
Having totally thrown off the authority of foreign power, they came suspicious of all outside
authority. Besides there were eighteen members who had taken part in Shays's Rebellion, so
hostile were they to the execution of all law. Mr. Adams was finally convinced by a gathering
of the workingmen among his constituents, who exercised their constitutional right of instructing
their representatives. Their opinion was presented to him by Paul Revere. "How many mechanics
were at the Green Dragon when these resolutions were passed?" asked Mr. Adams. "More, sir,
than the Green Dragon could hold." "And where were the rest?" "In the streets, sir." "And how
many were in the streets?" "More than there are stars in the sky." This is supposed to have
convinced the great Massachusetts tribune that it was his duty to support ratification.

There were those, however, who distrusted the Constitution and distrusted its proponents. They
viewed lawyers and men of means with great jealousy. Amos Singletary expressed their sentiments
in the form of an argument that has not ceased to be repeated in the discussion of all public
affairs. In the convention sat Jonathan Smith, a farmer from Lanesboro. He had seen Shays's
Rebellion in Berkshire. There had been no better example of a man of the people desiring the
common good.

There spoke the common sense of the common man of the Commonwealth. The counsel of the farmer
from the country, joined with the resolutions of the workingmen from the city, carried the
convention and the Constitution was ratified. In the light of succeeding history, who shall
say, that it was not the voice of the people, speaking with the voice of Infinite Authority?

The attitude of Samuel Adams, William Shepard, Jonathan Smith and the workingmen of Boston
toward government, is worthy of our constant emulation. They had not hesitated to take up arms
against tyranny in the Revolution, but having established a government of the people they were
equally determined to defend and support it. They hated the usurper whether king, or Parliament,
or mob, but they bowed before the duly constituted authority of the people.

When the question of pardoning the convicted leaders of the rebellion came up, Adams opposed
it. We are all glad mercy prevailed and pardon was granted. But the calm judgment of Samuel
Adams, the lover of liberty, "the man of the town meeting" whose clear vision, taught by bitter
experience, saw that all usurpation is tyranny, must not go unheeded now. The authority of
a just government derived from the consent of the governed, has back of it a Power that does
not fail.

All wars bring in their trail great hardships. They existed in the day of General Shepard.
They exist now. Having set up a sound government in Massachusetts, having secured their independence,
as the result of a victorious war, the people expected a season of easy prosperity. In that
they were temporarily disappointed. Some rebelling, were overthrown. The adoption of the Federal
Constitution brought relief and prosperity.

Success has attended the establishment here of a government of the people. We of this day have
just finished a victorious war that has added new glory to American arms. We are facing some
hardships, but they are not serious. Private obligations are not so large as to be burdensome.
Taxes can be paid. Prosperity abounds. But the great promise of the future lies in the loyalty
and devotion of the people to their own Government. They are firm in the conviction of the
fathers, that liberty is increased only by increasing the determination to support a government
of the people, as established in this ancient town, and defended by its patriotic sons.

XXXIV

The Commonwealth of Massachusetts

By His Excellency Calvin Coolidge, Governor

A PROCLAMATION

The entire State Guard of Massachusetts has been called out. Under the Constitution the Governor
is the Commander-in-Chief thereof by an authority of which he could not if he chose divest
himself. That command I must and will exercise. Under the law I hereby call on all the police
of Boston who have loyally and in a never-to-be-forgotten way remained on duty to aid me in
the performance of my duty of the restoration and maintenance of order in the city of Boston,
and each of such officers is required to act in obedience to such orders as I may hereafter
issue or cause to be issued.

I call on every citizen to aid me in the maintenance of law and order.

XXXV

AN ORDER

  BOSTON, September 11, 1919

To EDWIN U. CURTIS,

As you are Police Commissioner of the City of Boston,

Executive Order No. 1

You are hereby directed, for the purpose of assisting me in the performance of my duty, pursuant
to the proclamation issued by me this day, to proceed in the performance of your duties as
Police Commissioner of the city of Boston under my command and in obedience to such orders
as I shall issue from time to time, and obey only such orders as I may so issue or transmit.

  CALVIN COOLIDGE
  Governor of Massachusetts

XXXVI

A TELEGRAM

  BOSTON, MASS., Sept. 14, 1919

MR. SAMUEL GOMPERS

President American Federation of Labor, New York City, N.Y.

Replying to your telegram, I have already refused to remove the Police Commissioner of Boston.
I did not appoint him. He can assume no position which the courts would uphold except what
the people have by the authority of their law vested in him. He speaks only with their voice.
The right of the police of Boston to affiliate has always been questioned, never granted, is
now prohibited. The suggestion of President Wilson to Washington does not apply to Boston.
There the police have remained on duty. Here the Policemen's Union left their duty, an action
which President Wilson characterized as a crime against civilization. Your assertion that the
Commissioner was wrong cannot justify the wrong of leaving the city unguarded. That furnished
the opportunity, the criminal element furnished the action. There is no right to strike against
the public safety by anybody, anywhere, any time. "That you did not, and could not have done, Verschoyle.
I did not rise from the bed after I lay down until six o'clock this
morning, just before you came in."

"You
must-- either awake or asleep, you must have!" catching at a last hope that the other might have
walked in his sleep.

"No; on my honour; I was tired, but I could not sleep. I saw the ghostly appearance each time:
and I was struck by the difference in the second. It was a more ghostly affair altogether. I
saw, in fact, only a hand and part of an arm."

Laurence went hurriedly to the door opposite that by which he had
entered, and turned the handle: locked on the outside, as he had left
it!

"The first came that way," said Meredith, who had followed him
with his eyes; "but not the other."

  CALVIN COOLIDGE
  Governor of Massachusetts

XXXVII

The Commonwealth of Massachusetts

By His Excellency Calvin Coolidge, Governor

A PROCLAMATION

There appears to be a misapprehension as to the position of the police of Boston. In the deliberate
intention to intimidate and coerce the Government of this Commonwealth a large body of policemen,
urging all others to join them, deserted their posts of duty, letting in the enemy. This act
of theirs was voluntary, against the advice of their well wishers, long discussed and premeditated,
and with the purpose of obstructing the power of the Government to protect its citizens or
even to maintain its own existence. Its success meant anarchy. By this act through the operation
of the law they dispossessed themselves. They went out of office. They stand as though they
had never been appointed.

Other police remained on duty. They are the real heroes of this crisis. The State Guard responded
most efficiently. Thousands have volunteered for the Guard and the Militia. Money has been
contributed from every walk of life by the hundreds of thousands for the encouragement and
relief of these loyal men. These acts have been spontaneous, significant, and decisive. I propose
to support all those who are supporting their own Government with every power which the people
have entrusted to me.

There is an obligation, inescapable, no less solemn, to resist all those who do not support
the Government. The authority of the Commonwealth cannot be intimidated or coerced. It cannot
be compromised. To place the maintenance of the public security in the hands of a body of men
who have attempted to destroy it would be to flout the sovereignty of the laws the people have
made. It is my duty to resist any such proposal. Those who would counsel it join hands with
those whose acts have threatened to destroy the Government. There is no middle ground. Every
attempt to prevent the formation of a new police force is a blow at the Government. That way
treason lies. No man has a right to place his own ease or convenience or the opportunity of
making money above his duty to the State. This is the cause of all the people. I call on every
citizen to stand by me in executing the oath of my office by supporting the authority of the
Government and resisting all assaults upon it.

XXXVIII

HOLY CROSS COLLEGE

JUNE 25, 1919

To come from the press of public affairs, where the practical side of life is at its flood,
into these calm and classic surroundings, where ideals are cherished for their own sake, is
an intense relief and satisfaction. Even in the full flow of Commencement exercises it is apparent
that here abide the truth and the servants of the truth. Here appears the fulfillment of the
past in the grand company of alumni, recalling a history already so thick with laurels. Here
is the hope of the future, brighter yet in the young men to-day sent forth.

In them the dead past lives. They represent the college. They are the college. It is not in
the campus with its imposing halls and temples, nor in the silent lore of the vast library
or the scientific instruments of well-equipped laboratories, but in the men who are the incarnation
of all these, that your college lives. It is not enough that there be knowledge, history and
poetry, eloquence and art, science and mathematics, philosophy and ethics, ideas and ideals.
They must be vitalized. They must be fashioned into life. To send forth men who live all these
is to be a college. This temple of learning must be translated into human form if it is to
exercise any influence over the affairs of mankind, or if its alumni are to wield the power
of education.

If college-bred men are to exercise the influence over the progress of the world which ought
to be their portion, they must exhibit in their lives a knowledge and a learning which is marked
with candor, humility, and the honest mind.

The present is ever influenced mightily by the past. Patrick Henry spoke with great wisdom
when he declared to the Continental Congress, "I have but one lamp by which my feet are guided
and that is the lamp of experience." Mankind is finite. It has the limits of all things finite.
The processes of government are subject to the same limitations, and, lacking imperfections,
would be something more than human. A quantity of provisions and water were got ready, and then
Don Luego was seized and disarmed in spite of his struggles. The seamen lowered him in a boat
over the side of the galleon, and then, cutting the ropes, cast the fierce commander adrift at
the mercy of wind and wave. They watched him as the boat was seen to rise at times on the crest
of a huge wave, and saw that he shook at them threateningly his disarmed hand. At last they
lost sight of him, and gathered together once more to consider their own plans and what to
do with the treasure of the galleon.

"José, who seemed to be above the lust for gold which sprang up in
the hearts of the other sailors, assumed the command, and bade the
men prepare to return to Spain.

He thought it best to throw himself and his crew on the mercy of the King, and, delivering
up the treasure, to tell of the cruelties of Don Luego. With some reluctance the seamen agreed,
and so they took their course homeward. Three days afterwards a sailor on the look-out descried
several Spanish caracks to leeward, to which they signalled, and having joined company sailed
on together. All the vessels carried bombards and cannons, yet within a week the whole of them,
save one, had struck their colours, and nailed to the mast of each was the flag of the capturing
enemy, who belonged to the sahibs'nation. The single vessel not taken was the galleon which
José commanded, and after it, as it fled through the waves with every stitch of canvas spread, went
one of the Feringhee ships."

It was a long stern chase, for the enemy was determined to capture the galleon, yet so well were the vessels
matched in speed that they swept on without any perceptible difference
being made in the distance which separated them. The learned and patriotic research of men
of the education of Dr. James J. Walsh and Michael J. O'Brien, the historian of the Irish American
Society, has demonstrated that a generous portion of the rank and file of the men who fought
in the Revolution and supported those who framed our institutions was not alien to those who
are represented here. It is no wonder that from among such that which is American has drawn
some of its most steadfast defenders.

In these days of violent agitation scholarly men should reflect that the progress of the past
has been accomplished not by the total overthrow of institutions so much as by discarding that
which was bad and preserving that which was good; not by revolution but by evolution has man
worked out his destiny. We shall miss the central feature of all progress unless we hold to
that process now. It is not a question of whether our institutions are perfect. The most beneficent
of our institutions had their beginnings in forms which would be particularly odious to us
now. Civilization began with war and slavery; government began in absolute despotism; and religion
itself grew out of superstition which was oftentimes marked with human sacrifices. So out of
our present imperfections we shall develop that which is more perfect. But the candid mind
of the scholar will admit and seek to remedy all wrongs with the same zeal with which it defends
all rights.

From the knowledge and the learning of the scholar there ought to be developed an abiding faith.
What is the teaching of all history? That which is necessary for the welfare and progress of
the human race has never been destroyed. The discoverers of truth, the teachers of science,
the makers of inventions, have passed to their last rewards, but their works have survived.
The Phoenician galleys and the civilization which was born of their commerce have perished,
but the alphabet which that people perfected remains. The shepherd kings of Israel, the temple
and empire of Solomon, have gone the way of all the earth, but the Old Testament has been preserved
for the inspiration of mankind. The ark of the covenant and the seven-pronged candlestick have
passed from human view; the inhabitants of Judea have been dispersed to the ends of the earth,
but the New Testament has survived and increased in its influence among men. The glory of Athens
and Sparta, the grandeur of the Imperial City, are a long-lost memory, but the poetry of Homer
and Virgil, the oratory of Demosthenes and Cicero, the philosophy of Plato and Aristotle, abide
with us forevermore. Whatever America holds that may be of value to posterity will not pass away.

The long and toilsome processes which have marked the progress of the past cannot be shunned
by the present generation to our advantage. We have no right to expect as our portion something
substantially different from human experience in the past. The constitution of the universe
does not change. Human nature remains constant. That service and sacrifice which have been
the price of past progress are the price of progress now.

This is not a gospel of despair, but of hope and high expectation. Out of many tribulations
mankind has pressed steadily onward. The opportunity for a rational existence was never before
so great. Blessings were never so bountiful. But the evidence was never so overwhelming as
now that men and nations must live rationally or perish.

The defenses of our Commonwealth are not material but mental and spiritual. Her fortifications,
her castles, are her institutions of learning. Those who are admitted to the college campus
tread the ramparts of the State. The classic halls are the armories from which are furnished
forth the knights in armor to defend and support our liberty. For such high purpose has Holy
Cross been called into being. A firm foundation of the Commonwealth. A defender of righteousness.
A teacher of holy men.

XXXIX

REPUBLICAN STATE CONVENTION, TREMONT TEMPLE, BOSTON

OCTOBER 4, 1919

Ancient custom crystallized to law has drawn us here. We come to renew our pledge publicly
at the altar of our country. We come in the light of history and of reason. We come to take
counsel both from experience and from imagination. Over us shines a glorious past, before us
lies a promising future. Around us is a renewed determination deep and solemn that this Commonwealth
of ours shall endure.

The period since our last election has been one of momentous events. Within its first week
the victorious advance of America and her allies terminated in the armistice of November eleventh.
The power of organized despotisms had been proven to be inferior to the power of organized
republics. Reason had again triumphed over absolutism. The "still small voice" of the moral
law was seen to be greater than the might of kings. The world appeal to duty triumphed over
the world appeal to selfishness. It always will. There will be far-reaching results from all
this which no one can now foresee. But some things are apparent. The power of the people has
been revealed. The worth of the individual man shines forth with an increased glory. But most
significant of all, for it lies at the foundation of all civilization and all progress, was
the demonstration that the citizens of the great republics of the earth possess the power which
they dare to use, of maintaining among all men the orderly processes of revealed law.

These are no new doctrines in Massachusetts. For nearly three hundred years she has laid her
course according to these principles, extending the blessings which arise from them to her
citizens, ever ready to defend them with her treasure and her blood. In this the past year
has been no exception.

In recognition of the long-established policy of making this Commonwealth first in humanitarian
legislation, the General Court enacted a law providing for reducing a fifty-four hour week
for women and minors to a forty-eight hour week. It passed the weavers' specification bill.
The allowance under the workmen's compensation law was increased. Local option was provided
on the question of a twelve-hour day for firemen. Authority was granted corporations to give
their employees a voice in their management. Representatives of the employees have been appointed
to the Board of Trustees of great public service corporations. Profiteering has been made a
crime. A special commission of which the chairman is Brigadier-General John H. Sherburne was
established to deal with the problem of the high cost of living--with power which has been
effective in reducing the prices of the necessaries of life. No other State has taken any effective
measure. The compensation of public employees has been increased. The entire public service
of the Commonwealth has been reorganized in accordance with the constitutional amendment into
twenty departments. In caring for her service men Massachusetts led all the States of the Nation
in relief and in assistance, besides voting the stupendous sum of twenty million dollars, not
as compensation, but as recognition of the gratitude due those who had represented us in the
great war. The educational opportunities of the youth of the State have been improved. All
of these acts of great importance, which are of course only representative of the character
of current legislation, had the executive approval. There has been not only a sympathetic but
a very practical attitude toward the ideal expressed in my inaugural address, that there is
a right to be well born, well reared, well educated, well employed, and well paid. We shall
not be shaken in the mature determination to promote these policies. The ancient faith of Massachusetts
in the worth of her citizens, the cause of great solicitude for the welfare of each individual,
will remain undiminished.

The many uncertainties in transportation which are State, Nation, and world wide, sent our
street railway problems to an expert commission which will report to a special session of the
General Court. It is recognized that the rate of fare necessary to pay for the service rendered
has in some instances become prohibitive. Some roads and portions of roads have been closed
down. There must be relief. But such relief must be in accord with sound economic principles.
What the public has the public must pay for. From this there is no escape. Under private, or
public, ownership or operation this rule will be the same. We must face the facts and restore
this necessary service to the people in such a form that they can meet its costs. In meeting
this issue, not hysterically, not with demagogy, but calmly, with candor, applying an adequate
remedy to ascertained facts, Massachusetts, as usual, will lead all the other States of the Nation.

That agitation and unrest which has been characteristic of the whole world since the close
of the war has had some manifestations here. There is a natural desire in every human mind
to seek better conditions. Such a desire is altogether praiseworthy. There must, however, be
discrimination in the methods employed. Wholesale criticism of everybody and everything does
not necessarily exhibit statesmanlike qualities, and may not be true. Not all those who are
working to better the condition of the people are Bolsheviki or enemies of society. Not all
those who are attempting to conduct a successful business are profiteers. But unreasonable
criticism and agitation for unreasonable remedies will avail nothing. We, in common with the
whole world, are suffering from a shortage of materials. There is but one remedy for this,
increased production. We need to use sparingly what we have and make more. No progress will
be made by shouting Bolsheviki and profiteers. What we need is thrift and industry. Let everybody
keep at work. Profitable employment is the death blow to Bolshevism and abundant production
is disaster to the profiteer. Our salvation lies in putting forth greater effort, in manfully
assuming our own burdens, rather than in entertaining the pleasing delusion that they can be
shifted to some other shoulders. Those who attempt to lead people on in this expectation only
add to their burdens and their dangers.

The people of Boston have recently seen the result of agitation and unrest in its police force.
The policy of that department, established by an order of former Commissioner O'Meara and adopted
by a rule which has the force of law by the present Commissioner Curtis, prohibited a police
union from affiliating with an outside union. In spite of this such a union was formed and
persisted in with acknowledged and open defiance of the rules and of the counsel and almost
entreaties of the officers of the department. Such disobedience continuing, the leaders were
cited for trial on charges and heard with their counsel before the Commissioner. After thorough
consideration, and opportunity again to obey the rules, they were found guilty. In order to
give a chance to recant sentence was suspended. Shortly after, three fourths of the police
force abandoned their posts and refused further to perform their duties. During the next few
hours, there was destruction of property in the city but happily no loss of life.

Meantime there had been various efforts to save the situation. Some urged me to remove the
Commissioner, some to request him to alter his course. To all these I had to reply that I had
no authority whatever over his actions and could not lawfully interfere with him. It was my
duty to support him in the execution of the law and that I should do. I was glad to confer
with any one and give my help where it was sought. The Commissioner was appointed by my predecessor
in office for a term of years. I could with almost equal propriety interfere in the decisions
of the Supreme Court.

To restore order, I at once and by pre-arrangement with him and the Commissioner, offered to
the Mayor to call out the State Guard. At his request I did so, immediately beginning restoring
obedience to the law. On account of the public danger, I called on the Commissioner to aid
me in the execution of my duties of keeping order, and issued a proclamation to that effect.

To various suggestions that the police be permitted to return I replied that the Attorney-General
had ruled that by law that could not be done and while I had no power to appoint, discharge,
or reinstate, I was opposed to placing the public security again in the keeping of this body
of men. There is an obligation to forgive but it does not extend to the unrepentant. To give
them aid and comfort is to support their evil doing and to become what is known in law as an
accessory after the fact. A government which does that is a reproach to civilization and will
soon have on its hands the blood of its citizens.

The response to the appeal to support the Government of Massachusetts in sustaining law and
order was instantaneous. It came from the State Guard, from volunteers for police, and the
militia, from contributions gathered among all classes now reaching hundreds of thousands of
dollars, from the loyal police of Boston, from all quarters of the Commonwealth and beyond.
These forces may all be dissipated, they may be defeated, but while I am entrusted with the
office of their Commander-in-Chief they will not be surrendered. Over them and over every other
law-abiding citizen has gone up the white flag of Massachusetts. Who is there that by compromising
the authority of her laws dares to haul down that flag? I have resisted and propose to continue
in resistance to such action.

This issue is perfectly plain. The Government of Massachusetts is not seeking to resist the
lawful action or sound policy of organized labor. It has time and again passed laws for the
protection and encouragement of trade unions. It has done so under my administration upon my
recommendation to a greater extent than in any previous year. In that policy it will continue.
It is seeking to prevent a condition which would at once destroy all labor unions and all else
that is the foundation of civilization by maintaining the authority and sanctity of the law.
When that goes all goes. It costs something but it is the cheapest thing that can be bought;
it causes some inconvenience but it is the foundation of all convenience, the orderly execution
of the laws.

The people understand this thoroughly. They know that the laws are their laws and speak their
voice. They know that this Government is their Government founded on their will, administered
by their representatives. Disobedience to it is disobedience to the people. They know that
the property of the Commonwealth is their property. Destruction of it destroys their substance.
The public security is their security. When that is gone they are in deadly peril. And knowing
this the people have a determination to support the Government with a resolution that is unchanging.

It is my purpose to maintain the Government of Massachusetts as it was founded by her people,
the protector of the rights of all but subservient to none. It is my purpose to maintain unimpaired
the authority of her laws, her jurisdiction, her peace, her security. This ancient faith of
Massachusetts which became the great faith of America, she reestablished in her Constitution
before the army of Washington had gained our independence, declaring for "a government of laws
and not of men." In that faith she still abides. Let him challenge it who dares. All who love
Massachusetts, who believe in America, are bound to defend it. The choice lies between living
under coercion and intimidation, the forces of evil, or under the laws of the people, orderly,
speaking with their settled convictions, the revelation of a divine authority.

XL

WILLIAMS COLLEGE

OCTOBER 17, 1919

There speaks here with the voice of immortality one who loved Massachusetts. On every side
arise monuments to that enduring affection bred not of benefits received but of services rendered,
of sacrifices made, that the province of Massachusetts Bay might live enlightened and secure.
A bit of parchment has filled libraries. A few hundred dollars has enriched generations. The
spirit of a single liberty-loving soldier has raised up a host that has shaken the earth with
its martial tread, laying low the hills but exalting the valleys. Here Colonel Ephraim Williams
still executes his will, still disposes of his patrimony, still leads the soldiers of the free
to an enduring victory, and with a power greater than the sword stands guard on the frontier
marches of the Commonwealth.

Honor compels that honor be recognized. In compliance with that requirement this day has been
set apart by this institution of letters in testimony of the merit of her sons. Nearly one
half of her living alumni were under the direct service of the Nation in the great war. Into
all branches of the service, civil and military, they went from the alumni, from the class
rooms, from the faculty, up to President Garfield himself, who served as Director of the Fuel
Administration. From America and her allies has come the highest of recognition, conferred
by citation, awards, and decorations. Their individual deeds of valor I shall not relate. They
are known to all. Advisedly I say that they have not been surpassed among men. Their heroism
was no less heroic because it was unconscious there or because of befitting modesty it is unostentatious
here. There was yet a courage unequaled by the most momentous dangers which were met by those
now marked with fame and a capacity in the others which would have matched equal events with
equal fortitude. In the most grateful recognition of all this, to the living and the dead,
by their Alma Mater the Commonwealth of Massachusetts reverently joins.

But this day, if it is truly to represent the spirit of this college, means more than a glorification
of the past. It was by a stern determination to discharge the duties of the present that Ephraim
Williams provided for a future filled with a glory that must not yet be termed complete. His
thoughts were not on himself nor on material things. Had he chosen to inscribe his name upon
a monument of granite or of bronze it would have gone the way of all the earth. Enlightening
the soul of his fellow man he made his mark which all eternity cannot erase. A soldier, he did not

         "put his trust
    In reeking tube and iron shard"

to save his countrymen, but like Solomon chose first knowledge and wisdom and to his choice
has likewise been added a splendor of material prosperity.

Earth's great lesson is written here. In it all men may read the interpretation of the founder
of this college, of the meaning of America, of the motive high and true which has inspired
her soldiers. Not unmindful of a desire for economic justice but scorning sordid gain, not
seeking the spoils of war but a victory of righteousness, they came, subordinating the finite
to the infinite, placing their trust in that which does not pass away. This precept heretofore
observed must not be abandoned now. A desire for the earth and the fullness thereof must not
lure our people from their truer selves. Those who seek for a sign merely in a greatly increased
material prosperity, however worthy that may be, disappointed through all the ages, will be
disappointed now. Men find their true satisfaction in something higher, finer, nobler than
all that. We sought no spoils from war; let us seek no spoil from peace. Let us remember Babylon
and Carthage and that city which her people, flushed with purple pride, dared call Eternal.

This college and her sons have turned their eyes resolutely toward the morning. Above the roar
of reeking strife they hear the voice of the founder. Their actions have matched their vision.
They have seen. They have heard. They have done. I thank you for receiving me into their company,
so romantic, so glorious, and for enrolling me as a soldier in the legion of Colonel Ephraim
Williams.

XLI

CONCERNING TEACHERS' SALARIES

OCTOBER 29, 1919

A Letter to the Mayor of Boston

MY DEAR MR. MAYOR:

It will be with a good deal of satisfaction that I coöperate with you and any other cities
of Massachusetts for the purpose of increasing the pay of those engaged in the teaching of
the youth of our Commonwealth. It has become notorious that the pay for this most important
function is much less than that which prevails in commercial life and business activities.

Roger Ascham, the teacher to Queen Elizabeth, about 1565, in discussing this question, wrote:
"And it is pity that commonly more care is had, yea and that among very wise men, to find out
rather a cunning man for their horse than a cunning man for their children. They say nay in
word, but they do so in deed. For to the one they will gladly give a stipend of two hundred
crowns by the year and are loath to offer to the other two hundred shillings. God that sitteth
in Heaven laugheth their choice to scorn and rewardeth their liberality as it should. For he
suffereth them to have tame and well-ordered horses, but wild and unfortunate children, and
therefore in the end they find more pleasure in their horse than comfort in their children."

In an address which I made at a Harvard College Commencement I undertook to direct attention
to the inadequate compensation paid to our teachers, whether in the universities, public schools,
or the pulpits of the land. It is perfectly clear that more money must be provided for these
purposes, which surpass in their importance all our other public activities, both by government
appropriation and by private charity.

It is significant that the number of teachers who are in training in our normal schools has
decreased in the past twelve or fifteen years from three thousand to two thousand, while the
number of students in colleges and technical schools has increased. But fancy renouncing sunny Mount
Charles-- "O Charley Mount is a pleasant place," as sang Miles na
Coppaleen, who was, by the way, miles away from Monte Carlo-- with
its azure sky, its deep blue sea, its verdant green-cloth table land,
its delightful promenades à pied, and its frisky gambols à la roulette,
where the sunset and sunrise are rouge, and noir is only "on the
cards."

Fancy renouncing these gay southern delights to live a laborious day in dry, hard, northern Glasgow!
"O swallow, swallow, flying, flying South," how would you like to be checked in your holiday-making
airy career in order to be brought back to the cold and cruel North? Such a self-sacrifice
as this is indeed memorable.***** LOVE BY THE SEA.

WIND N. E. BY E. "We do not speak as we pass by!"

But tears down trickle from our eye!

Alas! Our love remains untold---- For each has got a thundering cold!***** BOOKS THAT OUGHT
TO APPEAR. I Banish the Street Organs!

By the Author of I Forbid the Banns!

A Boy's Present.

(Birthday Book.) By the Author of A Girl's Past.

No. 1 of The Domestic Lyre, as a Companion to The Family Storyteller.*****
YET THEY LOOK SO INNOCENT!-- In the Language of Flowers, what species
should always express untruths?-- Li-lies.

The Master Builder been diligently at work, but result disappointing.

On Friday he got terribly snubbed by SPEAKER. Comes up to-day to
make personal explanation.

That a bait at which House usually jumps; always ready to be amused,
or interested with scandal about Queen ELIZABETH and other persons.

These things usually promised by personal explanation. To-day no flutter of excitement moved crowded House. JEMMY,
approaching table with most judicial air, received with mocking laughter, and ironical cheers.
Some difficulty in quite making out what he was at. Evidently something
to do with SQUIRE of MALWOOD; but SQUIRE so inextricably mixed up with
Supplementary Estimates, couldn't make out which was which. JAMES pounded
along in most ponderous style; SQUIRE contemptuously replied; no one else
inclined to join in conversation, and the Master Builder gloomily resumed
his seat. "Never mind," I said, not liking to see an old friend cast
down; "Rome wasn't built in a day, nor the Cave of Adullam excavated in
a week. These things grow. You must have patience, and the Lowther
Arcade will still flourish. Let me see, whom you have got? They are
for the Government. They are against those who are against the Government. American institutions
are safe in their hands. Some of those who have posed as their leaders and argued that the
wage-earners were patriotic because those leaders told them to be may well now inquire whether
the case did not stand the other way about. It begins to look as if those who attempt to lead
the wage-earners must first show that they themselves are patriotic if they are to have any
following. The patriotism of some alleged leaders was not the cause but the effect of the patriotism
of the wage-earners.

Three words tell the result. Massachusetts is American. The election will be a welcome demonstration
to the Nation and to people everywhere who believe that liberty can only be secured by obedience
to law. The strength of a righteous cause has not grown less. The people of Massachusetts are
patriotic before they are partisan, they are not for men but for measures, not for selfishness
but for duty, and they will support their Government. Revelation has not ceased and faith in
men has not failed. They cannot be intimidated, they cannot be coerced, they cannot be deceived,
and their sovereignty is not for sale.

When this campaign is over it will be a rash man who will again attempt to further his selfish
interests by dragging a great party name in the mire and seeking to gain the honor of office
by trafficking with disorder. The conduct of public affairs is not a game. Responsible office
does not go to the crafty. Governments are not founded upon an association for public plunder
but on the coöperation of men wherein each is seeking to do his duty.

The past five years have been like an earthquake. They have shaken the institutions of men
to their very foundations. It has been a time of searchings and questionings. It has been a
time of great awakenings. There has been an overpowering resolution among men to make things
better. Despotisms have been falling. Republics have been rising. There has been rebellion
everywhere against usurped authority. With all that America has been entirely sympathetic.
There has been bred in the blood through generations a great sympathy for all peoples struggling
to be free. We have a deep conviction that "resistance to tyranny is obedience to law." And
on that conviction we have stood for three centuries. Time and experience have but strengthened
our belief that it is sound.

But like all rules of action it only applies to the conditions it describes. All authority
is not usurped authority. Any government is not tyranny. These are the counterfeits. There
are no counterfeits of the unreal. It is only of the real and true that men seek to pass spurious
imitations.

There are among us a great mass of people who have been reared for generations under a government
of tyranny and oppression. It is ingrained in their blood that there is no other form of government.
They are disposed and inclined to think our institutions partake of the same nature as these
they have left behind. We know they are wrong. They must be shown they are wrong.

There is a just government. There are righteous laws. We know the formula by which they are
produced. The principle is best stated in the immortal Declaration of Independence to be "the
consent of the governed." It is from that source our Government derives its just powers and
promulgates its righteous laws. They are the will of the people, the settled conviction derived
from orderly deliberation, that take on the sanctity ascribed to the people's voice. Along
with the binding obligation to resist tyranny goes the other admonition, that "obedience to
law is liberty,"--such law and so derived.

These principles, which I have but lightly sketched, are the foundation of American institutions,
the source of American freedom and the faith of any party entitled to call itself American.
It constitutes truly the rule of the people. It justifies and sanctifies the authority of our
laws and the obligation to support our Government. It is democracy administered through representation.

There are only two other choices, anarchy or despotism--Russia, present and past. For the most
part human existence has been under the one or the other of these. Both have failed to minister
to the highest welfare of the people. Unless American institutions can provide for that welfare
the cause of humanity is hopeless. Unless the blessings of prosperity, the rewards of industry,
justice and liberty, the satisfaction of duty well done, can come under a rule of the people,
they cannot come at all. We may as well abandon hope and, yielding to the demands of selfishness,
each take what he can.

We had hoped these questions were settled. But nothing is settled that evil and selfish men
can find advantage for themselves in overthrowing. We must eternally smite the rock of public
conscience if the waters of patriotism are to pour forth. We must ever be ready to point out
the success of our country as justification of our determination to support it. 

He could then fabricate hard tools, chisel stone, build houses, and proceed by unwearying industry
to devise the manifold means and agencies of civilization.

The dweller by the ocean burnt a hollow in a felled tree, launched it, went to sea in it, and
fished for food. The hollowed tree became a boat, held together with iron nails. The boat became
a galley, a ship, a paddle-boat, a screw steamer, and the world was opened up for colonization
and civilization.

Man would have continued uncivilized, but for the results of the useful labours of those who
preceded him. The soil was reclaimed by his predecessors, and made to grow food for human uses. They
invented tools and fabrics, and we reap the useful results.

They discovered art and science, and we succeed to the useful effects
of their labours.

All nature teaches that no good thing which has once been done passes utterly away. The living
are ever reminded of the buried millions who have worked and won before them. The handicraft and skill
displayed in the buildings and sculptures of the long-lost cities
of Nineveh, Babylon, and Troy, have descended to the present time.

In nature's economy, no human labour is altogether lost. Some remnant
of useful effect continues to reward the race, if not the individual.

The
mere material wealth bequeathed to us by our forefathers forms but
an insignificant item in the sum of our inheritance. Our birthright
is made up of something far more imperishable. Will men realize their blessing
and exhibit the resolution to support and defend the foundation on which they rest? Having
saved Europe are we ready to surrender America? Having beaten the foe from without are we to
fall a victim to the foe from within?

All of this is put in question by the issue of this campaign. That one fundamental issue is
the support of the Government in its determination to maintain order. On that all of these
opportunities depend.

There can be no material prosperity without order. Stores and banks could not open. Factories
could not run, railways could not operate. What was the value of plate glass and goods, the
value of real estate in Boston at three o'clock, A.M., September 10? Unless the people vote
to sustain order that value is gone entirely. Business is ended.

On order depends all intellectual progress. Without it all schools close, libraries are empty,
education stops. Disorder was the forerunner of the Dark Ages.

Without order the moral progress of the people would be lost. With the schools would go the
churches. There could be no assemblages for worship, no services even for the departed, piety
would be swallowed up in viciousness.

I have understated the result of disorder. Man has not the imagination, the ability to overstate
it. There are those who aim to bring about exactly this result. I propose at all times to resist
them with all the power at the command of the Chief Executive of Massachusetts.

Naturally the question arises, what shall we do to defend our birthright? In the first place
everybody must take a more active part in public affairs. It will not do for men to send, they
must go. It is not enough to draw a check. Good government cannot be bought, it has to be given.
Office has great opportunities for doing wrong, but equal chance for doing right. Unless good
citizens hold office bad citizens will. People see the office-holder rather than the Government.
Let the worth of the office-holder speak the worth of the government. The voice of the people
speaks by the voice of the individual. Duty is not collective, it is personal. Let every inhabitant
make known his determination to support law and order. That duty is supreme.

That the supremacy of the law, the preservation of the Government itself by the maintenance
of order, should be the issue of this campaign was entirely due to circumstances beyond my
control. That any one should dare to put in jeopardy the stability of our Government for the
purpose of securing office was to me inconceivable. That any one should attempt to substitute
the will of any outside organization for the authority conferred by law upon the representatives
of the people had never occurred to me. But the issue arose by action of some of the police
of Boston and it was my duty to meet it. I shall continue to administer the law of all the people.

I should have been pleased to make this campaign on the record of the past year. I should have
been pleased to show what the march of progress had been under the people's government, what
action had been taken for the relief of those who toil with their hands as well as their heads,--and
the record was never more alluring,--what has been done to advance the business and commercial
interests of this great industrial Commonwealth, what has promoted public health, what has
assisted in agricultural development, the progress made in providing transportation, the increased
opportunity given our youth for education. In particular I should have desired to point out
the great pride Massachusetts has in her war record and the abundant way she has shown her
gratitude for her service men and women, surpassing every other State. All this is a record
not of promises, but of achievement. It is one in which the voters of the Commonwealth may
well take a deep satisfaction. It is there, it stands, it cannot be argued away. No deception
can pervert it. It endures.

All these are the result of ordered liberty--the result of living under the law. It is the
great desire of Massachusetts to continue such legislation of progress and humanity. Those
who are attempting to wrench the scepter of authority from the representatives of the people,
to subvert the jurisdiction of her laws, are the enemies not only of progress, but of all present
achievement, not only of what we hope for, but of what we have.

This is the cause of all the people, especially of the weak and defenseless. Their only refuge
is the protection of the law. The people have come to understand this. They are taking the
deciding of this election into their own hands regardless of party. If the people win who can
lose? They are awake to the words of Daniel Webster, "nothing will ruin the country if the
people themselves will undertake its safety; and nothing can save it if they leave that safety
in any hands but their own."

My fellow citizens of Massachusetts, to you I commend this cause. To you who have added the
glory of the hills and plains of France to the glory of Concord and Bunker Hill, to you who
have led when others faltered, to you again is given the leadership. Grasp it. Secure it. Make
it decisive. Make the discharge of the great trust you now hold an example of hope for righteousness
everywhere, a new guaranty that the Government of America shall endure.

