SECRET ENEMIES OF TRUE REPUBLICANISM,

MOST IMPORTANT DEVELOPMENTS[A] REGARDING THE INNER LIFE OF MAN AND THE SPIRIT WORLD, IN ORDER
TO ABOLISH REVOLUTIONS AND WARS AND TO ESTABLISH PERMANENT PEACE ON EARTH,

ALSO:

THE PLAN FOR REDEMPTION OF NATIONS FROM MONARCHICAL AND OTHER OPPRESIVE SPECULATIONS AND FOR
THE INTRODUCTION OF THE PROMISED NEW ERA OF HARMONY, TRUTH AND RIGHTEOUSNESS ON THE WHOLE[B] GLOBE.

WRITTEN BY

ANDREW B. SMOLNIKAR,

FORMERLY EIGHTEEN YEARS PRIEST BENEDICTINE MONK AND IMPERIAL ROYAL PROFESSOR OF BIBICAL LITERATURE;
AFTERWARDS SINCE A.D. 1838, BY SIGNS ACCORDING TO PROPHECIES DECLARED AND CONFIRMED REPRESENTATIVE
OF MESSENGERS FOR THE INTRODUCTION OF THE UNIVERSAL REPUBLIC, COMMONLY ALTHOUGH IMPROPERLY
CALLED THE MILLENNIUM. So had now Esben Cinderella
the oak cut down, the shades on the windows of the king, and a fountain dug in the courtyard,
which was resistant to water, and as he got the princess and the had half the kingdom, as
promised the king. Well it was that Peter and Paul their ears had lost, because otherwise they
would have had to hear it over and every day that Esben Cinderella had been surprised but not too
bad.

20.

The mill that grinds on the sea bottom.

There were times in ancient time, two brothers, one of them was rich, and the other was poor. Now
when the Christmas drew near, had a bite of the poor flesh, nor bread in the house went about
his brother and asked him for a little something in God's name. Now it was not the first time
that the rich brother, the poor thing had given, and he was therefore not just particularly pleased
when he saw him coming. "Will you do what I tell you," he said, "so You shall have a whole
ham, just as he hangs in the smoke. "Yes, the poor man wanted to and thanked him. ! 'Since you
have it, "said the kingdom, by giving it threw the ham," and Now go to hell! "-" Have I promised,
I must do it, "said Andre, took the ham and went away. He probably
walked all day, and when it got dark, saw he right to a bright gleam
of light. "Here it must be!" He thought. A little further down in
the Forest, but an old man with a long white beard and hau'te wood.

When I say "us," I understand the whole body of messengers whom I represent. I became Representative
of this Body by having performed and explained what has been shown to me by the Spirit of Truth
for the introduction of the promised New Era. No imaginations, but facts, events, are testifying
our Heavenly Mission for the true Freedom, Harmony and Peace of Nations, as well as the infernal
Mission of those who either openly or secretly, are opposed to our mission. In this their condition
they are supporting the Papal Imperial Royal or Monarchial powers. The eldest said, he would have it so good with them, why did he not stay at home because
wanted. But he could not rest, he was determined to continue, and she left him at last . Travel
When he had wandered for a while, he came to a royal palace, because He asked for a service,
and he also received.

The daughter of the king of this country, but was held back by a troll in a mountain, and the
King had no more children, as only this one daughter. So he was, and with he had the whole country
in great sorrow and grief, and the King To those who deliver them could, promised the princess
and half the kingdom, but there was no one who could do that, although many tried. Than the lad
a year or thereabouts, there had been wanted he come back home and his older, but as he arrived
at home were his parents- at the time died, and the brothers had divided the inheritance among
themselves, so that now Nothing more for the boy was left. "Shall I have nothing?" Said the lad.
"Could we know that you were still alive, who are touched around so long? "said the Brothers:
"But it may be drum: the top of the mountain belt to go twelve mares that we have not have divided,
do you want to have for your part, so you can take it, "was yes, so. the lad well pleased, and
went immediately to the mountain belt, where gras'ten the twelve mares. As he went, each mare had her
Saugfüllen, but had the best filling a Mare, that was a great mottled filling and so fat and
so good in her body that it shone. "You are a beautiful little animal," said the youth are. "Yes,
but you want to murder the other filling, so that I can suck all the mares a year, then you shall see
how big and well I will, "said the colt. This because the lad did well: he beat all the others
Fill dead, and then he went away.


ANDREW B. SMOLNIKAR.

Washington D.C. March 29th, 1859.

Remark:

I wrote this preface in the expectation of soon finding in Washington means for publishing
this book. But I had to wait, till at length the war in Italy commenced. Therefore readers
are requested to study what they must know to stop Revolutions and Wars and to commence the
New Era of Harmony and Peace.

FIRST TREATISE.

    Louis Napoleon, according to a severe divine judgment Emperor of
    France, and James Buchanan, according to the merciful divine
    benignity President of the United States.

On the 27th January, 1859, while I was ready to start from Philadelphia, a messenger said,
that on that day an article appeared in the German Democrat of that city for my use, and handed
to me the number containing that article, from which we translate the following passages:

"A pamphlet of the famous Mr. Belly, directed to Emperor Napoleon III, was announced in Paris
on all corners of the streets with very large letters, under the inscription

NAPOLEON AND BUCHANAN. "Will you, a goose or gander? Here is enough Allen, "shouted
Gidsken when she came into the barn. "Hush! deleted! Take only one, the fat is good, "said
the thieves. "Yes, but you want a goose or a gander? The United States
are represented as deadly enemies of the whole Latin Race and of the monarchies of Europe,
which must fall to their feet, if that race does not commence a crusade against the heretics,
and take the sword against the pirates, thieves and bankrupts of the United States." "Ouch! au "cried the priest in the bag,"? where I am - "You are on the narrow paths,
leading into the kingdom of heaven, "said the master thief and dragged the bag ever so that
the priest rang the ribs in his body, at last he threw it into the goose-house of the mayor. Since
the geese were flying at him and began to hiss and bite to it, and the pastor was in his bag,
more dead than alive. "Ouch! au! where I am now, "he said. "Now you're in purgatory to be cleansed
and purified for eternal life, "said the master thief went away and took all the gold and silver
and precious things that the pastor had collected together in his great room.
 

When the princess heard that had happened to her brothers, she could not rest for longer Home,
and how much crying and the mother also liked to ask, nothing helped, they wanted to leave
and had continued to visit her brothers again, for she thought she would be alone cause of their
misfortune, and that's why she left the castle secretly modified. She wandered now so far in
the world, believe that you should not, as such a tender virgin Sun far have been able to walk.


