The name of Dryden is local, and probably originated in the north of England, where, as well
as in the neighbouring counties of Scotland, it frequently occurs, though it is not now borne
by any person of distinction. David Driden, or Dryden, married the daughter of William Nicholson
of Staff-hill, in the county of Cumberland and was the great-great-grandfather of our poet.
John Dryden, eldest son of David, settled in Northamptonshire, where he acquired the estate
of Canons-Ashby, by marriage with Elizabeth, daughter and heiress of Sir John Cope of that
county. Wood says, that John Dryden was by profession a schoolmaster, and honoured with the
friendship of the great Erasmus, who stood godfather to one of his sons.[15] He appears, from
some passages in his will, to have entertained the puritanical principles, which, we shall
presently find, descended to his family.[16] Erasmus Driden, his eldest son, succeeded to the
estate of Canons-Ashby, was high-sheriff of Northamptonshire in the fortieth year of Queen
Elizabeth, and was created a knight baronet in the seventeenth of King James I. Sir Erasmus
married Frances, second daughter and co-heiress of William Wilkes of Hodnell, in Warwickshire
by whom he had three sons, first, Sir John Driden, his successor in the title and estate of
Canons-Ashby; second, William Driden of Farndon, in Northamptonshire; third, Erasmus Driden
of Tichmarsh, in the same county. The last of these was the father of the poet.

Erasmus Driden married Mary, the daughter of the reverend Henry Pickering, younger son of Sir
Gilbert Pickering, a person who, though in considerable favour with James I., was a zealous
puritan, and so noted for opposition to the Catholics that the conspirators in the Gunpowder
Treason, his own brother-in-law being one of the number,[17] had resolved upon his individual
murder, as an episode to the main plot; determined so to conduct it, as to throw the suspicion
of the destruction of the Parliament upon the puritans.[18] These principles, we shall soon
see, became hereditary in the family of Pickering. Serve your guest with a good wine. You may want to ask him first if he would like a
glass. if you are unaware of his preferences, you might also ask
if he would prefer red or white out of politeness, but it is not really
necessary.

When you are pouring the wine for each guest around the table, always go from right to left,
holding the bottle in the right hand with the thumb facing toward the bottom. Never fill thd glass
full, this is considered bad manners
 He acted as a
justice of peace during the usurpation, and was the father of no less than fourteen children;
four sons and ten daughters. The sons were John, Erasmus, Henry, and James; the daughters,
Agnes, Rose, Lucy, Mary, Martha, Elizabeth, Hester, Hannah, Abigail, Frances. Such anecdotes
concerning them as my predecessors have recovered, may be found in the note.[19]

JOHN DRYDEN, the subject of this memoir, was born at the parsonage house of Oldwinkle All-Saints,
on or about the 9th day of August 1631.[20] The village then belonged to the family of Exeter,
as we are informed by the poet himself in the postscript to his Virgil. That his family were
Puritans may readily be admitted; but that they were Anabaptists, although confidently asserted
by some of our author's political or poetical antagonists, appears altogether improbable. Notwithstanding,
therefore, the sarcasm of the Duke of Buckingham, the register of Oldwinkle All-Saints parish,
had it been in existence, would probably have contained the record of our poet's baptism.[21]

Dryden seems to have received the rudiments of his education at Tichmarsh,[22] and was admitted
a king's scholar at Westminster,[23] under the tuition of the celebrated Dr. Bushby,[24] for
whom he ever afterwards entertained the most sincere veneration. One of his letters to his
old master is addressed, "Honoured Sir," and couched in terms of respect, and even humility,
fully sufficient for the occasion. Another written by Dryden, when his feelings were considerably
irritated by a supposed injustice done to his son, is nevertheless qualified by great personal
deference to his old preceptor. It may be readily supposed, that such a scholar, under so able
a teacher, must have made rapid progress in classical learning. The bent of the juvenile poet,
even at this early period, distinguished itself. He translated the third satire of Persius,
as a Thursday night's task, and executed many other exercises of the same nature, in English
verse, none of which are now in existence.[25] During the last year of his residence at Westminster,
the death of Henry Lord Hastings, a young nobleman of great learning, and much beloved, called
forth no less than ninety-eight elegies, one of which was written by our poet, then about eighteen
years old. They were published in 1650, under the title of "Lachrymae Musarum."

Dryden, having obtained a Westminster scholarship was admitted to Trinity College, Cambridge
on the 11th May 1650, his tutor being the reverend John Templer, M.A., a man of some learning,
who wrote a Latin Treatise in confutation of Hobbes, and a few theological tracts and single
sermons. While at college, our author's conduct seems not to have been uniformly regular. He
was subjected to slight punishment for contumacy to the vice-master,[26] and seems, according
to the statement of an obscure libeller, to have been engaged in some public and notorious
dispute with a nobleman's son, probably on account of the indulgence of his turn for satire.[27]
He took, however, the degree of Bachelor, in January 1653-4, but neither became Master of Arts,[28]
nor a fellow of the university and certainly never retained for it much of that veneration
usually paid by an English scholar to his Alma Mater.

In June 1654, the death of his father, Erasmus Dryden, proved a temporary interruption to our
author's studies. He left the university, on this occasion, to take possession of his inheritance,
consisting of two-thirds of a small estate near Blakesley, in Northamptonshire, worth, in all,
about sixty pounds a year. The other third part of this small property was bequeathed to his
mother during her life, and the property reverted to the poet after her death in 1676. With
this little patrimony our author returned to Cambridge, where he continued until the middle
of the year 1657.

Although Dryden's residence at the university was prolonged to the unusual space of nearly
seven years, we do not find that he distinguished himself during that time by any poetical
prolusions excepting a few lines prefixed to a work, entitled, "Sion and Parnassus; or Epigrams
on several Texts of the Old and New Testament," published in 1650, by John Hoddesdon.[30] Mr.
Malone conjectures that our poet would have contributed to the academic collection of verses,
entitled, "Oliva Pacis," and published in 1654, on the peace between England and Holland, had
not his father's death interfered at that period. It is probable, we lose but little by the
disappearance of any occasional verses which may have been produced by Dryden at this time.
The elegy on Lord Hastings, the lines prefixed to "Sion and Parnassus," and some complimentary
stanzas which occur in a letter to his cousin Honor Driden,[31] would have been enough to assure
us, even without his own testimony, that Cowley was the darling of his youth; and that he imitated
his points of wit, and quirks of epigram, with a similar contempt for the propriety of their
application. From these poems, we learn enough to be grateful, that Dryden was born at a later
period in his century; for had not the road to fame been altered in consequence of the Restoration,
his extensive information and acute ingenuity would probably have betrayed the author of the
"Ode to St. Cecilia," and the father of English poetical harmony, into rivalling the metaphysical
pindarics of Donne and Cowley.

The verses, to which we allude, display their sublety  of thought, their puerile extravagance
of conceit, and that structure of verse, which, as the poet himself says of Holyday's translations,
has nothing of verse in it except the worst part of it-- the rhyme, and that far from being
unexceptionable The following lines, in which the poet describes the death of Lord Hastings
by the small-pox, will be probably admitted as a justification of this censure:

  "Was there no milder way but the small-pox;
  The very filthiness of Pandora's box?
  So many spots, like naeves, our Venus soil?
  One jewel set off with so many a foil?
  Or were these gems sent to adorn his skin,
  The cabinet of a richer soul within?
  No comet need foretel his change drew on,
  Whose corpse might seem a constellation."

This is exactly in the tone of Bishop Corbet's invective against the same disease:

  "Oh thou deformed unwoman-like disease,
  Thou plough'st up flesh and blood, and there sow'st pease;
  And leav'st such prints on beauty that dost come,
  As clouted shoon do on a floor of loam.
  Thou that of faces honey-combs dost make,
  And of two breasts two cullenders, forsake
  Thy deadly trade; now thou art rich, give o'er,
  And let our curses call thee forth no more."[32]

After leaving the university, our author entered the world, supported by friends, from whose
character, principles, and situation, it might have been prophesied, with probability, that
his success in life, and his literary reputation, would have been exactly the reverse of what
they actually proved. Sir Gilbert Pickering was cousin-german to the poet, and also to his
mother; thus standing related to Dryden in a double connection.[33] This gentleman was a staunch
puritan, and having set out as a reformer, ended by being a regicide, and an abettor of the
tyranny of Cromwell. He was one of the judges of the unfortunate Charles; and though he did
not sit in that bloody court upon the last and fatal day, yet he seems to have concurred in
the most violent measures of the unconscientious men who did so. He had been one of the parliamentary
counsellors of state, and hesitated not to be numbered among the godly and discreet persons
who assisted Cromwell as a privy council. Moreover he was lord chamberlain of the Protector's
court, and received the honour of his mock peerage.

The patronage of such a person was more likely to have elevated Dryden to the temporal greatness
and wealth acquired by the sequestrators and committee-men of that oppressive time, than to
have aided him in attaining the summits of Parnassus. For, according to the slight records
which Mr. Malone has recovered concerning Sir Gilbert Pickering's character, it would seem,
that, to the hard, precise, fanatical contempt of every illumination, save the inward light,
which he derived from his sect, he added the properties of a fiery temper, and a rude and savage
address.[34] In what capacity Dryden lived with his kinsman, or to what line of life circumstances
seemed to destine the future poet, we are left at liberty to conjecture. Shadwell, the virulent
antagonist of our author, has called him Sir Gilbert Pickering's clerk; and it is indeed highly
probable that he was employed as his amanuensis, or secretary.

  The next step of advancement you began
  Was being clerk to Noll's lord chamberlain,
  A sequestrator and committee-man.

The Medal of John Bayes.

