But at the time when he wrote, Englishmen, with the rarest exceptions, wrote only in French
or Latin; and when they began to write in English, a man of genius, to interpret and improve
on him, was not found for a long time. And the most interesting parts of the Arthurian story
are rarely handled at all in such early vernacular versions of it as we have, whether in verse
or prose. Naturally enough, perhaps, it was the fabulous historic connection with British history,
and the story of the great British enchanter Merlin, that attracted most attention. The Arthour
and Merlin which is in the Auchinleck MS.; the prose Merlin, published by the Early English
Text Society; the alliterative Thornton Morte d'Arthur, and others, are wont to busy themselves
about the antecedents of the real story--about the uninteresting wars of the King himself with
Saxons, and Romans, and giants, and rival kings, rather than with the great chivalric triple
cord of Round Table, Graal, and Guinevere's fault. The pure Graal poems, Joseph of Arimathea,
the work of the abominable Lonelich or Lovelich, etc., deal mainly with another branch of previous
questions--things bearable as introductions, fillings-up, and so forth, but rather jejune in
themselves. The Scots Lancelot is later than Malory himself, and of very little interest. Layamon's
account, the oldest that we have, adds little (though what little it does add is not unimportant)
to Geoffrey of Monmouth and Wace; and tells what it has to tell with nearly as little skill
in narrative as in poetry. Only the metrical Morte--from which, it would appear, Malory actually
transprosed some of his most effective passages in the manner in which genius transproses or
transverses--has, for that reason, for its dealings with the catastrophe, and for the further
opportunity of comparison with Tennyson, interest of the higher kind. But before we come to
Malory himself it is desirable to turn to the branches--the chapels, as we have called them,
to the cathedral--which he also, in some cases at least, utilised in the magnum opus of English
prose romance.

These outliers were rather more fortunate, probably for no more recondite reason than that
the French originals (from which they were in almost every instance certainly taken) were finished
in themselves. Of the special Gawain cycle or sub-cycle we have two romances in pure metrical
form, and more than two in alliterative, which are above the average in interest. Ywain and
Gawain, one of the former, is derived directly or indirectly from the Chevalier au Lyon of
Chrestien de Troyes; and both present some remarkable affinities with the unknown original
of the "Sir Beaumains" episode of Malory, and, through it, with Tennyson's Gareth and Lynette.
The other, Lybius Disconus (Le Beau Déconnu) is also concerned with that courteous nephew of
Arthur who, in later versions of the main story, is somewhat sacrificed to Lancelot. For a
"real romance," as it calls itself (though it is fair to say that in the original the word
means "royal"), of the simpler kind but extremely well told, there are not many better metrical
specimens than Ywain and Gawain, but it has less character-interest, actual or possible, than
those which have been commented on. The hero, King Urien's son, accepts an adventure in which
another knight of the Table, Sir Colgrevance, has fared ill, after it has been told in a conversation
at court which is joined in first by the Queen and afterwards by the King. Sir Kay here shows
his usual cross-grainedness; and Guinevere "with milde mood" requests to know "What the devil
is thee within?" The adventure is of a class well known in romance. You ride to a certain fountain,
pour water from it on a stone, and then, after divers marvels, have to do battle with a redoubtable
knight. Colgrevance has fared badly; Kay is as usual quite sure that he would fare better;
but Ywain actually undertakes the task. He has a tough battle with the knight who answers the
challenge, but wounds him mortally; and when the knight flies to his neighbouring castle, is
so hard on his heels that the portcullis actually drops on his horse's haunches just behind
the saddle, and cuts the beast in two. Ywain is thus left between the portcullis and the (by
this time shut) door--a position all the more awkward that the knight himself expires immediately
after he has reached shelter. The situation is saved, however, by the guardian damsel of romance,
Lunet (the Linet or Lynette of the Beaumains-Gareth story), who emerges from a postern between
gate and portcullis and conveys the intruder safe to her own chamber. Here a magic bed makes
him invisible: though the whole castle, including the very room, is ransacked by the dead knight's
people and would-be revengers, at the bidding of his widow.

This widow, however, is rather an Ephesian matron. The sagacious Lunet, whose confidante she
is, suggests to her that, unless she enlists some doughty knight as her champion, the king
will confiscate her fief; and that there is no champion like a husband. A very little more
finesse effects the marriage, even though the lady is made aware of the identity of her new
lover and her own husband's slayer. (It is of course necessary to remember that the death of
a combatant in fairly challenged and fought single contest was not reckoned as any fault to
his antagonist.) Ywain actually shows his prowess against the King: and has an opportunity
of showing Kay once more that it is one thing to blame other people for failing, and another
to succeed yourself. And after this the newly married pair live together happily for a time.
But it was reckoned a fault in a knight to take too prolonged a honeymoon: and Ywain, after
what the French call adieux déchirants, obtains leave for the usual "twelvemonth and a day,"
at the expiration of which, on St. John's Eve, he is without fail to return, the engagement
being sealed by the gift from his lady of a special ring. He forgets his promise of course:
and at the stated time a damsel appears, sternly demands the ring, and announces her lady's
decision to have nothing further to do with him. There is in such cases only one thing for
any true knight, from Sir Lancelot to Sir Amadis, to do: and that is to go mad, divest himself
of his garments, and take to the greenwood. This Ywain duly does, supporting himself at first
on the raw flesh of game which he kills with a bow and arrows wrested from a chance-comer;
and then on less savage but still simple food supplied by a benevolent hermit. As he lies asleep
under a tree, a lady rides by with attendants, and one of these (another of the wise damsels
of romance) recognises him as Sir Ywain. The lady has at the time sore need of a champion against
a hostile earl, and she also fortunately possesses a box of ointment infallible against madness,
which Morgane la Faye has given her. With this the damsel is sent back to anoint Ywain. He
comes to his senses, is armed and clothed, undertakes the lady's defence, and discomfits the
earl: but is as miserable as ever. Resisting the lady's offer of herself and all her possessions,
he rides off once more "with heavy heart and dreary cheer."

Soon he hears a hideous noise and, riding in its direction, finds that a dragon has attacked
a lion. He succours the holier beast, kills the dragon, and though he has unavoidably wounded
the lion in the mêlée is thenceforth attended by him not merely as a food-provider, but as
the doughtiest of squires and comrades in fight. To aggravate his sorrow he comes to the fountain
and thorn-tree of the original adventure, and hears some one complaining in the chapel hard
by. They exchange questions. "A man," he said, "some time I was" (which must be one of the
earliest occurrences in English of a striking phrase), and the prisoner turns out to be Lunet.
She has been accused of treason by the usual steward (it is very hard for a steward of romance
to be good) and two brothers--of treason to her lady, and is to be burnt, unless she can find
a knight who will fight the three. Ywain agrees to defend her: but before he can carry out
his promise he has, on the same morning, to meet a terrible giant who is molesting his hosts
at a castle where he is guested. Both adventures, however, are achieved on the same day, with
very notable aid from the lion: and Ywain undertakes a fresh one, being recruited by the necessary
damsel-messenger, against two half-fiend brother knights. They stipulate that the lion is to
be forcibly prevented from interfering, and he is locked up in a room; but, hearing the noise
of battle, he scratches up the earth under the door, frees himself, and once more succours
his master at the nick of time. Even this does not expiate Ywain's fault: and yet another task
falls to him--the championship of the rights of the younger of a pair of sisters, the elder
of whom has secured no less a representative than Gawain himself. The pair, unknowing and unknown,
fight all day long before Arthur's court with no advantage on either side: and when the light
fails an interchange of courtesies leads to recognition and the settlement of the dispute.
Now the tale is nearly full. Ywain rides yet again to the magic fountain and performs the rite;
there is no one to meet him; the castle rocks and the inmates quake. But the crafty Lunet persuades
her mistress to swear that if the Knight of the Lion, who has fallen at variance with his lady,
will come to the rescue, she will do all she can to reconcile the pair. Which not ill-prepared
"curtain" duly falls: leaving us comfortably assured that Ywain and his Lady and Lunet and
the Lion (one wishes that these two could have made a match of it, and he must surely have
been a bewitched knight) lived happily

    "Until that death had driven them down."

This, it has been said, is a specimen of the pure romance; with little except incident in it,
and a touch or two of manners. It does not, as the others noticed above do, lend itself much
to character-drawing. But it is spiritedly told; though rougher, it is much more vigorous than
the French original; and the mere expletives and stock phrases, which are the curse of these
romances, do not obtrude themselves too much. In this respect, and some others, it is the superior
of the one coupled above with it, Lybius Disconus, which is closer, except in names, to the
Beaumains story. Still, this also is not a bad specimen of the same class. The hero of it is
a son, not a brother, of Gawain, comes nameless or nicknamed, but as "Beaufils," not "Beaumains,"
to Arthur's court, and is knighted at once, not made to go through the "kitchen-knave" stage.
Accordingly, the damsel Elene (not Lunet), to whom he is assigned as champion in the adventure
of the Lady of Sinadowne, objects only to his novelty of knighthood and is converted by his
first victory. The course of the adventures is, however, different from that which some people
know from Malory, and many from Tennyson. One of them is farcical: the Fair Unknown rescues
a damsel at her utmost need from two giants, a red and a black, one of whom is roasting a wild
boar and uses the animal as a weapon, with the spit in it, for the combat. Moreover, he falls
a victim to the wiles of a sorceress-chatelaine whom he has also succoured: and it is only
after the year and day that Elene goads him on to his proper quest. But this also is no bad story.

The limits of this volume admit of not much farther "argument" (though the writer would very
gladly give it) of these minor romances of adventure, Arthurian and other. Ellis's easily accessible
book supplies abstracts of the main Arthurian story before Malory; of the two most famous,
though by no means best, of all the non-Arthurian romances, Guy of Warwick and Bevis of Hampton
(the former of which was handled and rehandled from age to age, moralised, curtailed, lengthened,
and hashed up in every form); of the brilliant and vigorous Richard Coeur-de-Lion; of the less
racy Charlemagne romances in English; of the Seven Wise Masters, brought from the East and
naturalised all over Europe; of the delightful love story of Florice and Blancheflour; of that
powerful and pathetic legend of the Proud King (Robert of Sicily), which Longfellow and Mr.
William Morris both modernised, each in his way; of those other legends, Sir Isumbras and Amis
and Amillion, which are so beautiful to those who can appreciate the mediæval mind, and to
the beauty of which others seem insensible; of Sir Triamond and Sir Eglamour (examples of the
romance at its weakest); of the exceedingly spirited and interesting Ipomydon, and of some
others, including the best of Scotch romances, Sir Eger, Sir Grame, and Sir Graysteel. But
Ellis could not know others, and he left alone yet others that he might have known--the exquisite
Sir Launfal of Thomas Chester at the beginning of the fifteenth century, where an unworthy
presentment of Guinevere is compensated by the gracious image of Launfal's fairy love; the
lively adventures of William of Palerne, who had a werewolf for his friend and an emperor's
daughter for his love, eloping with her in white bear-skins, the unusual meat of which was
being cooked in her father's kitchen; Sir Orfeo--Orpheus and Eurydice, with a happy ending;
Emarè, one of the tales of innocent but persecuted heroines of which Chaucer's Constance is
the best known; Florence of Rome; the rather famous Squire of Low Degree; Sir Amadas, not a
very good handling of a fine motive, charity to a corpse; many others.

Nor does he seem to have known one of the finest of all--the alliterative romance of Gawain
and the Green Knight which, since Dr. Morris published it some forty years ago for the Early
English Text Society, has made its way through text-books into more general knowledge than
most of its fellows enjoy. In this the hero is tempted repeatedly, elaborately, and with great
knowledge of nature and no small command of art on the teller's part, by the wife of his host
and destined antagonist. He resists in the main, but succumbs in the point of accepting a magic
preservative as a gift: and is discovered and lectured accordingly. It is curious that this,
which is far above the usual mere adventure-story and is novel of a high kind as well as romance,
has no known French original; and is strongly English in many characteristics besides its verse-form.

On the whole, however, one need have no difficulty in admitting that the majority of these
romances do somewhat content themselves with incident, incident only, and incident not merely
of a naïf but of a stock kind, for their staple. There are striking situations, even striking
phrases, here and there; there is plenty of variety in scene, and more than is sometimes thought
in detail; but the motive-and-character-interest is rarely utilised as it might be, and very
generally is not even suggested. There is seldom any real plot or "fable"--only a chain of
events: and though no one but a very dull person will object to the supernatural element, or
to the exaggerated feats of professedly natural prowess and endurance, it cannot be said that
on the whole they are artistically managed. You feel, not merely that the picture would have
been better if the painter had taken more pains, but that the reason why he did not is that
he did not know how.

Sir Thomas Malory, himself most unknown perhaps of all great writers, did know how; and a cynical
person might echo the I nunc of the Roman satirist, and dwell on the futility of doing great
things, in reference to the fact that it used to be fashionable, and is still not uncommon,
to call Malory a "mere compiler." Indeed from the direction which modern study so often takes,
of putting inquiry into origins above everything, and neglecting the consideration of the work
as work, this practice is not likely soon to cease. But no mistake about the mysterious Englishman
(the place-names with which the designation is connected are all pure English) is possible
to any one who has read his book, and who knows what prose fiction is. The Noble Histories
of King Arthur, La Morte d'Arthur, The Story of the most Noble and Worthy King Arthur, The
Most Ancient and Famous History of the Renowned Prince Arthur, The Birth, Life, and Acts of
King Arthur--call it by whichever name anybody likes of those which various printers and reprinters
have given it--is one of the great books of the world. If they can give us any single "French
book"--the reference to which is a commonplace of the subject--from which it was taken, let
them; they have not yet. If they point out (as they can) French and English books from which
parts of it were taken, similar things may be done with Dante and Chaucer, with Shakespeare
and Milton, and very probably could have been done with Homer. It is what the artist does with
his materials, not where he gets them, that is the question. And Malory has done, with his
materials, a very great thing indeed. He is working no doubt to a certain extent blindly; working
much better than he knows, and sometimes as he would not work if he knew better; though whether
he would work as well if he knew better is quite a different point. Sometimes he may not take
the best available version of a story; but we must ask ourselves whether he knew it. Sometimes
he may put in what we do not want: but we must ask ourselves whether there was not a reason
for doing so, to him if not to us. What is certain is that he, and he only in any language,
makes of this vast assemblage of stories one story, and one book. He does it (much more than
half unconsciously no doubt) by following the lines of, as I suppose, Walter Map, and fusing
the different motives, holding to this method even in parts of the legend with which, so far
as one knows, Map cannot have meddled. Before him this legend consisted of half a dozen great
divisions--a word which may be used of malice prepense. These were the story of Merlin, that
of Arthur's own origin, and that of the previous history of the Graal for introduction; the
story of Arthur's winning the throne, of the Round Table, and of the marriage with Guinevere,
also endless branchings of special knights' adventures, and of the wars with the Saxons and
the Romans, and the episode of the False Guinevere--with whom for a time Arthur lives as with
his queen--for middle; and the story of the Graal-quest, the love of Lancelot for the Queen,
and the rebellion of Mordred with its fatal consequences, for close. Exactly how much of this
Malory personally had before him we cannot of course say: but of any working up of the whole
that would have spared him trouble, and robbed him of credit, we do not know. In fact the favourite
term "compiler" gives up the only dangerous point. Now in what way did Malory compile? In the
way in which the ordinary compiler proceeds he most emphatically does not. He cuts down the
preliminaries mercilessly: but they can be perfectly well spared. He misses almost all the
wars with the Saxons, which are the most tedious parts of the originals. He adopts, most happily,
the early, not the late, placing of those with the Romans. He drops the false Guinevere altogether,
which is imperative, that the true one may have no right to plead the incident--though he does
not represent Arthur as "blameless." He gives the roman d'aventures side of the Round Table
stories, from the great Tristram and Palomides romances through the Beaumains episode downwards,
because they are interesting in themselves and lead up to the Graal quest. He gives that Quest
as plentifully because it leads up to the "dolorous death and departing out of this world of
them all." How he gives the Lancelot and Guinevere tragedy we shall see presently. And the
catastrophe of the actual "departing" he gives perfectly; with the magnificent final scenes
which he has converted, sometimes in almost Shakespearean fashion, by the slightest verbal
touches from mediocre verse to splendid prose. A very remarkable compiler! It is a pity that
they did not take him and cut him up in little stars for a light to all his brethren in compiling
thereafter.

For he has what no compiler as such can have--because the moment he has it he ceases to be
a compiler, and becomes an artist--the sense of grasp, the power to put his finger, and to
keep it, on the central pulse and nerve of the story. That he did this deliberately is so unlikely
as to be practically impossible: that he did it is certain. The Arthurian Legend is the greatest
of mediæval creations as a subject--a "fable"--just as the Divina Commedia is the greatest
of mediæval "imitations" and works of art. And as such it is inevitable that it should carry
with it the sense of the greatest medieval differences, Chivalry and Romance. The strong point
of these differences is the way in which they combine the three great motives, as Dante isolates
them, of Valour, Love, and Religion. The ancients never realised this combination at all; the
moderns have merely struggled after it, or blasphemed it in fox-and-grapes fashion: the mediævals
had it--in theory at any rate. The Round Table stories, merely as such, illustrate Valour;
the Graal stories, Religion; the passion of Lancelot and Guinevere with the minor instances,
Love. All these have their [Greek: amarthia]--their tragic and tragedy-causing fault and flaw.
The knight wastes his valour in idle bickerings; he forgets law in his love; and though there
is no actual degradation of religion, he fails to live up to the ideal that he does not actually
forswear. To throw the presentation--the mimesis--of all this into perfectly worthy form would
probably have been too much for any single genius of that curious time (when genius was so
widely spread and so little concentrated) except Dante himself, whose hand found other work
to do. To colour and shape the various fragments of the mosaic was the work of scores. To put
them together, if not in absolutely perfect yet in more than sufficient shape, was, so far
as we know, the luck of Malory only: though some one (Map or another) had done a mighty day's
work long before in creating the figure and the adventures of Lancelot and imagining the later
quest of the Graal with the figure of Galahad--that "improved Percivale," as the seedsmen say.

But besides this power of shaping (or even of merely combining) scattered elements into a story,
Malory has another--the other of the first importance to the novelist proper--in his attraction
to character, if not exactly in his making up of it. It has been said above that the defect
of the pure romances--especially those of continental origin--is the absence of this. What
the Greeks called [Greek: dihanoia]--"sentiment," "thought," "cast of thought," as it has been
variously rendered--is even more absent from them than plot or character itself: and of its
almost necessary connection with this latter they often seem to have no idea. Very rare is
such a touch as that of Sir Amadas being unable at the feast to get rid of the memory of the
unburied corpse, kept by enemies from the kindly earth that would hide it, and the rites that
would help it to peace: still rarer that in Guy of Warwick when the hero, at the height of
his fame and in the full enjoyment of his desires, looks from the tower and is struck by the
selfishness and earthliness of his career. The first notion is not "improved" in the original
at all, and the second very badly; but in most of the others such things do not even exist.
Now the greater Legend is full of situations which encourage such thoughts, and even of expressed
thoughts that only need craftsmanship to turn them into the cornerstones of character-building,
and the jewels, five or fifty words long, of literature. The fate and metaphysical aid that
determine the relations of Tristram and Iseult; the unconscious incest of Arthur and Margause
with its Greek-tragic consequence; the unrewarded fidelity of Palomides, and (an early instance
of the soon to be triumphant allegory) his fruitless chase of the Beast Glatissant; all these
are matters in point. But of course the main nursery of such things is the Lancelot-and-Guinevere
story itself. Nobody has yet made Guinevere a person--nobody but Shakespeare could have done
so perhaps, though Shakespeare's Guinevere would probably have been the greatest woman in all
art. But Malory has not been the least successful with her: and of Lancelot he has made, if
only in study, one of the great characters of that fictitious world which is so much truer
than the real. And let no one say that we are reading Tennyson or any one else into Malory.
There are yet persons, at least at the time this was written not quite Methusalahs, who read
the Morte d'Arthur before the Idylls appeared and who have never allowed even the Idylls to
overlay their original idea of the most perfect and most gentle of knights.

It is probable indeed that Malory invented little or nothing in the various situations, by
which the character of Lancelot, and the history of his fatal love, are evolved. We know in
most cases that this is so. It is possible, too, that at first (probably because the possibilities
had not dawned on him, as it has been admitted they never did very consciously) he has not
made the most of the introduction of lover and lady. But when the interest becomes concentrated,
as in the various passages of Guinevere's wrath with her lover and their consequences, or in
the final series of catastrophes, he is fully equal to the occasion. We know--this time to
his credit--how he has improved, in the act of borrowing them, the earlier verse-pictures of
the final parting of the lovers, and there are many other episodes and juxtapositions of which
as much may be said. That except as to Lancelot's remorse (which after all is the great point)
there is not much actual talk about motive and sentiment is nothing; or nothing but the condition
of the time. The important point is that, as the electricians say, "the house is wired" for
the actual installation of character-novelling. There is here the complete scenario, and a
good deal more, for a novel as long as Clarissa and much more interesting, capable of being
worked out in the manner, not merely of Richardson himself, but of Mr. Meredith or Mr. Hardy.
It is a great romance, if not the greatest of romances: it has a great novel, if not the greatest
of novels, written in sympathetic ink between the lines, and with more than a little of the
writing sometimes emerging to view.

