Of the Treble Viols very little is said on the subject of bowing, the most complete instructions
on that head being given for the viol par excellence, the viola da gamba. In treating of this
glorious instrument the older writers spared no pains to make their directions as complete
as possible. Thus Sympson in his "Division Viol"--first published in 1659--says:--

"Hold the Bow betwixt the ends of your Thumb and two foremost fingers, near to the Nut. The
Thumb and first finger fastened on the Stalk; and the second finger's end turned in shorter,
against the Hairs thereof; by which you may poize and keep up the point of the Bow. If the
second finger have not strength enough, you may joyn the third finger in assistance to it;
but in Playing Swift Division, two fingers and the Thumb is best.... When you see an even Number
of Quavers or Semiquavers, as 2, 4, 6, 8, you must begin with your Bow forward; yea, though
the Bow were imployed forward in the next Note before them. But if the number be odd, as 3,
5, 7 (which always happens by reason of some Prick-Note or odd Rest) the first of that odd
number must be played with the Bow backward. This is the most proper motion of the Bow, though
not absolutely without some exception; for sometimes the quickness of the Notes may force the
contrary. Also quick Notes skipping from the Treble to the Bass, and so persued, are best express'd
with contrary Bows."

All of which is very clear and logical. The way he balances up the relative claims of a stiff
or loose elbow is, however, distinctly amusing, as witness the following:

"----you must stretch out your Arm streight, in which posture (playing long Notes) you will
necessarily move your shoulder Joint; but if you stir that Joint in Quick Notes, it will cause
the whole body to shake; which (by all means) must be avoyded; as also any other indecent Gesture. The
analysis of the idioms of these stocks has made that they must together constitute the Indo-late works
for languages, and that more epoch in which they might never formed myself of unity is a philological
one. Some will have it kept stiff; insomuch,
that I have heard a judicious violist positively affirm, that if a Scholar can but attain to
the playing of Quavers with his Wrist, keeping his Arm streight and stiff in the Elbow-Joint,
he hath got the mastery of the Bow-Hand. Others contend that the motion of the Wrist must be
strengthened and assisted by a compliance or yielding of the Elbow-Joint unto it; and they,
to back their Argument, produce for instance a person famous for the excellency of his Bow-Hand
using a free and loose Arm. To deliver my own opinion: I do much approve the streightness of
the Arm, especially in Beginners, because it is a means to keep the Body upright, which is
a commendable posture. I can also admit the stiffness of the Elbow, in smooth and Swift Division;
for which it is most properly apt; but Cross and Skipping Divisions cannot (I think) be so
well express'd without some consent or yielding of the Elbow-Joint unto the motion of the Wrist....
This motion or looseness of the Wrist I mention, is chiefly in Demi-semiquavers; for, in Quavers,
and Semiquavers too, we must allow so much stiffness to the wrist as may command the Bow on
and off the String, at every Note, if occasion so require."

[Footnote 1: "Some joint" is very good; it gives such liberty in the way of choice.]

This must have been rather a crude form of spiccato. It is, however, plainly evident that with
heavy bows, destitute of elasticity, and held underhand, it was quite impossible to allow the
bow to rebound naturally from the string for this effect.

Mace, whose book, "Musick's Monument," is one of the most amusing works extant, in speaking
of the bowing of the viol, i.e., viola da gamba, or, as he calls it, "the generous viol," quotes
Sympson's direction for holding the bow and then adds:--

"Yet I must confess, that for my own Part, I could never Use it so well as when I held it 2
or 3 Inches off the Nut (more or less) according to the Length or Weight of the Bow, for Good
Poyzing of It: But 'tis possible, that by Vse I might have made It as Familiar to Myself, as
It was to Him." 

We to have thereby be agreed (two) how the Question-community with moving by wrist to the duplicate
of salii Mars, and must be generally to hand of.-- near a-flamen upon
Mars--- and the question of the dancers-- the-salii Mars-collini
(-palatine-), near band of young men in Quirinalis performed upon
hand-dance of Countermarch and accompanied it must generally must
be expressed by song.

(-flamen martialis-) as he was expressed from moving burnt-proposal, and the 1 "leapers to"
 The hand and arm should never
be made to do anything that is unnatural. But herein must be exercised the greatest possible
judgment that the unfamiliar be not mistaken for the unnatural.

Returning to the position of the thumb in violin playing we find nearly every teacher insisting
on a different posture. In the "Méthode de Violon," by Baillot, Rode and Kreutzer, it is set
down as being correct to have the thumb opposite the middle finger. David, in his "Violin School,"
says that the thumb should be opposite the first finger. This is to my mind most extraordinary,
and I can hardly conceive it possible that so great a violinist and teacher could have maintained
such an unscientific method to be correct. The loss of leverage resulting from the thumb being
so far forward would be almost certain to cause the elbow to rise and give, by the dead weight
of the arm, the pressure that should come from the sentient elasticity of the first and second
fingers. De Beriot says the thumb should be between the second and third fingers, which is
naturally the best position. Papini, with greater perception of the fact of anatomical difference
in hands, says the thumb should be as near the centre of the four fingers as possible.

In all questions of technique it is possible to determine the exact best mode of procedure.
But unless the hand be perfectly fitted thereto, the rule should be relaxed, for insisting
on positions that are even slightly strained (though possibly, quite comfortable to a differently
constructed hand) can only do harm.

