I accepted this account of what was in fact absence without leave, and he then suggested that
if I had nothing else on hand I might help him in making a toboggan-slide. Never having heard
of such a thing I accepted the invitation. Securing a couple of shovels we cleared a path to
the knoll; and, on the way, Mr. Hosmer explained that Angus Cameron, another new pupil, hailing
from Canada, had brought to the school a toboggan, a kind of sled, and we were to make a smooth
path or slide for it, so the boys and girls could try it in the afternoon when there were no
lessons.

We went to work with a will, spanking the snow down with the shovels, leveling uneven places
and forming a clear, hard track from the top of the Knoll to the brook. On the edge of the
bank we piled up an inclined plane, wetting down the snow and building a mound perhaps five
feet high. From this elevation, Mr. Hosmer stated, the toboggan, flying down the slide, would
shoot upward and forward and land on the far side of the brook. That seemed to me a very desirable
thing to do, and, while I finished up the shovel-work, my companion went back to the Hive and
brought out the toboggan.

This conveniency, well enough known to-day, was new to us, and we did not quite know how to
manage it. However, we got onto the thing somehow, and away we went down the slide. The slide
was all right and the inclined plane was all right, so we made the descent and the ascent all
right, soaring over the brook like a bird, but the landing on the far side was all wrong. We
hit the snowbank like a battering ram, the snow piling up in front of us as hard as stone;
the shock was terrific! Mr. Hosmer got the worst of it as he catapulted into the drift, while
I alighted in a heap on his shoulders. He scrambled out of the drift on all fours, concerned
only with learning whether I was badly hurt. On my assurance that unless his back and legs
and arms were broken, there was no damage done, he straightened up and declared he was unhurt
but dreadfully humiliated. "How could a man be such a condemned idiot as to plunge head-first
against a barricade like that?" This was the question suggested to his mind, only he did not
say "condemned idiot" exactly, but he apologized for the emphatic words he did use, and as
they do not look well in print, they need not be repeated.

Despite his bluff I saw he was in pain and wanted him to return to the Hive, but he insisted
on finishing our job. Under his direction I wallowed through the snowdrift, back and forth,
trampling down a passage, and then pressed the snow hard and flat, using the toboggan like
a plank. Meanwhile Mr. Hosmer bad turned very white and now dropped onto the toboggan, limp
and sick. The shock had upset his digestion. How to get him home? Borrowing rails from the
roadside fence I laid them across the streak of open water in the middle of the brook, piled
snow over them, and dragged my patient across on the toboggan. I attempted to haul him up the
Knoll, but he protested, asserting that he was much better and fully able to walk. He managed
to crawl up the hill and left me with directions to find Angus Cameron and join him in taking
charge of the slide in the afternoon.

After making half-a-dozen or more flying leaps over the brook on the new conveyance, with as
many jolts and tumbles in the snow, I managed to get the hang of the thing, and could steer
it over the course with delightful ease, suggesting the flight of a bird.

CHAPTER V

A GOOD ENDING

Saturday's dinner dispelled all fears of starvation from Brook Farm's meager fare, the table
being abundantly supplied with boiled beef, vegetables, Graham bread and good, sweet butter
like home, and, best of all, baked Indian pudding, a real luxury. Mr. Hosmer did not appear,
being confined to his room in the cottage. Learning that Dr. Ripley intended calling there,
I asked leave to go with him, and was told to be in the library, which was also the President's
office, at four o'clock.

Not being accustomed to Brook Farm's quick changes, my little talk with Dr. Ripley made me
a few minutes late at the Knoll, where I found two-score or so of children and half as many
grown-ups engaged in a snowball scrimmage. Inquiring for Angus, I turned over the toboggan
to him for the first ride. He asked if the slide was all right, if I had made the jump over
the brook, and if Mr. Hosmer was badly hurt. As he was a little backward about coming forward,
so to speak, I took the initiative, inviting any girl to join me who had courage enough to
face the music. Urged by my sister Althea, Annie Page took the offered seat, and down the slide
we plunged like a shot, all the company watching our venture with intense interest and not
a little anxiety. The flight took the breath away, but we sailed over the brook and out to
the thin snow on the meadow in one grand swoop, without a bump or a break on the way. Annie
was delighted and thanked me, over and over for giving her such a surprising pleasure.

Under the circumstances I thought Althea might be the next girl to make the trip, and, on the
way up the hill, I gave the Old Colonie call, which she recognized and answered. Annie noticed
the whistle and the reply, and asked what it meant, and when I explained the signal, she said,
"I would like to learn that." I immediately repeated it until she caught the notes, and presently
the strain was echoed all over the Knoll, and from that moment it became the call of the school.
From that moment, too, Annie Page became the one girl of the place for me. She held that position
in my regard until three years later, when she and her sister went to live with their parents
in Italy. She was a year and a month and a day younger than myself, but was far my senior in
the school. That was an advantage to me, as it had the effect of driving me ahead in my studies
in order to reach her classes. We were together a good deal out of school hours, taking the
same work to do, when that was practicable, as feeding the rabbits in the warren back of the
Eyrie, and cultivating the herb-garden where we raised mint, anise and cummin, sage, marjoram
and saffron for the Boston market.

One other incident occurred on the Knoll perhaps worth recording, as it gave me a name. Annie
insisted on helping me pull the toboggan up the slide, and, on the way, she remarked, "I did
not know boys liked perfumery."

"That," said I, "is from the cedar chest our clothes are packed in."

Just as we reached the group at the top of the hill she answered, "Oh, cedar! So it is."

As she spoke, a little toddlekins, three or four years old, came running to me, exclaiming,
"Cedar, can't I ride on the 'bog-gan?"

That settled it! My Brook Farm name was thenceforth Cedar, and would be Cedar, still, were
there any of my companions left to remember it. I never had any other nickname, save that of
late years some dear and intimate friends have made syllables of my initials and called me Jay Vee.

At four o'clock my sister and I trudged up to pay our call at the Eyrie. This was a square
house of the surburban villa type, two-and-a-half stories high, and the handsomest building
on the place, though plain, enough, as compared with villas in the neighborhood to-day. Doctor
and Mrs. Ripley received us very kindly and gave us a most cordial welcome to Brook Farm. Mrs.
Ripley, born Sophia Dana, was a slender, graceful lady, belonging to what Dr. Oliver Wendell
Holmes calls the Brahmin class of Boston; charming in manner, animated and blithe, but profoundly
serious in her religious devotion to what she regarded as the true Christian life. She had,
informally, the general charge of the girls in the school, and she at once made Althea feel
at home under her motherly care.

Dr. Ripley gained my confidence by claiming old acquaintance, recalling a former meeting that
I had quite forgotten. Several years previous, when I was a very small boy indeed, my father
had taken me with him on a flying trip from New York to Boston, deciding to do so, I suppose
rather than to leave mother in a strange city with two children on her hands. During that brief
visit Dr. Ripley had taken father to call on an illustrious artist, and he now recalled the
circumstances to my mind. With his prompting I could remember riding in a carriage; seeing
a tall silvery old gentleman wearing a black velvet robe lined with red, and tasting white
grapes for the first time; but I could not think of the silvery gentleman's name.

"Well," said my mentor, "perhaps you will be glad sometime to know that the gentleman you saw
was Washington Alston."

       *       *       *       *       *

Leaving Althea with Mrs. Ripley, we presently went over to the cottage, a small house near
the Eyrie, occupied by Miss Russell and her two nieces; Mr. Dana, Mr. Hosmer and Mr. Hecker,
finding the latter in Mr. Hosmer's room.

Isaac Thomas Hecker was a religious enthusiast who came to Brook Farm for the same reason that
Emerson left the Unitarian Church, namely, for his soul's peace. He belonged to a well-to-do
family in New York, engaged in the manufacture of flour specialties, but the restraints and
the questionable practices of business were irksome to him, and he eagerly sought a home among
the congenial spirits who were trying to live a higher life on their sterile little property
in West Roxbury. Being one of the thoroughgoing kind, he had learned all the uses of flour
from beginning to end, and this knowledge he gladly made available as baker-general for the
Brook Farm community. He was a faithful and competent baker for several months; usually happy
and cheerfully interested in all that was going on, but occasionally taking a day off for fasting
and prayer. Early in the spring, Annie Page and I were hunting arbutus, or Mayflower as we
called it, on the far side of the pine woods, when we came upon Mr. Hecker walking rapidly
up and down in the secluded little dell that served him as a retreat. He was wringing his hands
and sobbing so violently that we two scared children stole away, awed and mystified. Intruders
on a scene that should not have been witnessed, we said nothing about it at the time, and I
have never mentioned it until now.

Not long after this strange happening, Henry D. Thoreau came to the Farm, and Mr. Hecker found
in him a sympathetic companion. Presently the two went away together, for the purpose, I think,
of determining by experiment the minimum amount of nourishment actually required to sustain
life. They never came back. Thoreau took to the solitude of Walden, I suppose, and our baker
found himself attracted to the Catholic Church, eventually going abroad to study for the priesthood.
On taking orders he returned to New York, and during the rest of his life was an earnest and
influential, though somewhat independent toiler in the vineyard of Rome; gaining, unsought,
fame as Father Hecker. His monumental work was the founding of the Paulist Fathers, a strong
organization, influential in the religious life of New York, though the church and the home
of the fraternity are located across the Hudson river, in New Jersey.

       *       *       *       *       *

On seeing Dr. Ripley and Mr. Hecker and Mr. Hosmer together, it seemed to me they must be the
dearest friends in the world. And they were very near friends indeed, having many vital interests
in common. Dr. Ripley was a true minister of the Gospel; Mr. Hosmer had studied for the ministry,
and Mr. Hecker, as indicated, was a predestined priest. But, as I learned later, sincere and
even affectionate cordiality was the distinguishing characteristic of the Brook Farmers in
their relations with each other. Their communications were yea, yea, and nay, nay, but they
were really glad to meet, glad to exchange greetings, glad to give and to take the good word
which was always forthcoming, and glad to frankly manifest pleasure in their walk and conversation
together. This was the outward showing of the inward spirit of Brook Farm. It was lovingkindness
exemplified; and to appreciative visitors the recognition of this Christian Spirit in the encounters
of everyday life was exhilarating as a draught of new wine, wine from the press of Edom and Bozrah.

       *       *       *       *       *

After a little chat, Dr. Ripley and Mr. Hecker went away together, leaving me alone with Mr.
Hosmer, with whom I stayed until supper-time. He questioned me as to all the details of the
toboggan slide venture, which I was quite proud to report as eminently successful and, after
I had told him everything, even to my gaining a new name, he said, "Well, you have arrived
all right. You have been initiated. These young uns don't take anyone up and give them a name
like that unless things go suitably."

I did not know what being initiated meant, so he explained that while there was no such thing
as hazing at Brook Farm, it was sometimes a little hard for new pupils to take their right
places until the older ones found out what they were like.

Hazing had to be explained, too, so he told me that when he first went to boarding school,
the elder boys teased and tormented him, "putting him through a course of sprouts," as they
termed it. They made him spend what money he had in buying goodies which he was not permitted
to taste. They threw him into the canal, to see if he could swim, and then dragged him around
in the sand to dry his clothes. These and similar delicate attentions they bestowed upon him
to try his metal.

I ventured to hope that he being, of course, furiously angry, had vented his rage upon them
afterwards, as chance offered, but he said, no, that would not do at all. The ordeal was to
test a boy's temper and to find whether he could stand fire without getting mad or at least
without showing it. "You have passed your examination," he added, "and have been given your
place among your companions, and I'm very glad of it."

Mr. Hosmer had general oversight of the boys as Mrs. Ripley had of the girls. He informed me
that I was to be quartered in Pilgrim Hall under the guardianship of Miss Marian Ripley, and
my mate was to be Bonico, otherwise Isaac Colburne. Why Bonico? Well, just because he was Bonico.
A good friend he was, too, and Miss Ripley was a kind, judicious and conscientious guardian;
though we called her the grenadier, because she was tall, very straight and rather stern looking.

On the way down from the Eyrie with the Page girls and John Cheever, Annie informed me that
my sister was to be called Dheelish. Mr. Cheever was from Ireland, she said, and he had told
the girl that Dheelish was the Irish word for dear, and they had adopted it in place of Althea,
which, though a very nice name, very nice indeed, was, as they thought, too old and too formal;
and besides, added my companion, she is a dear, you know.

I did know, and knew, too, there was another girl, not far away who was also a dear. Sentimental?
Well, yes. All boys are more or less sentimental, only they are, mostly, too shy to admit it
or even perhaps to be aware of it.

On reaching the Hive we found Gerrish arriving bringing father and the Rev. William H. Channing.
At supper I bravely disposed of my bowl of brown bread and milk, taking it as a matter of course,
but secretly hoping father would notice my improved appetite.

Sunday proved to be a blessed day in my calendar. Dr. Channing held service in the dining-room
and every person on the place was present, with many more from the neighborhood and from Boston.
What I remember about it is that it awoke a new sense in my dull mind of what practical Christianity
really is. I realized that I had been a selfish, stupid cub; trying my worst to make the worst
of everything, while every one else was trying their best to make the best of everything. That
was a good ending of what had been a threatening phase of my first experience at Brook Farm.

CHAPTER VI

ENTERTAINMENTS

Our slide down the Knoll proved very popular, and, with occasional repairs, lasted all winter,
making a welcome addition to our outdoor diversions during the season when these were necessarily
limited. Living in the open was one of the salutary customs of the community, a custom faithfully
followed even in comparatively bad weather. Rain or shine, snow or blow, save only in real
storms, every one spent a good many of the twenty-four hours under the broad skies. There was
always some work to be done, cutting wood, digging peat--the main reliance for fuel--mending
stone walls, and attending to the tree-nurseries. Then for fun, there was coasting, skating,
sleigh-riding and taking long tramps over the place or to some distant point of interest. Exposure
to the elements seemed to harm no one, and coughs, influenzas and rheumatics were unknown.

Withal, however, indoor pleasures took the most prominent place, during the winter months.
After the reorganization of the Association as a Phalanx, Mr. John Dwight was the Chief of
the Festal Series, and as he was, first of all, a musician, it followed that music formed the
principal feature of our entertainments. Vocal and instrumental music was thoroughly taught
in the school, and, as nearly all the members of the community were music lovers, and many
were singers and players, the place was melodious from morning until night. There was always
some new song or perhaps some very old one to be tried, some local composition to be heard,
or some preparation for future musical events to enlist attention. Selections from the operas
then known and now forgotten, were given in the dining room; parts, with all the characters
and choruses, from "Zampa," "Norma" and the "Caliph of Bagdad" recur to my mind. Two public
concerts were given to pay for a new piano, and as the proceeds did not quite fill the bill,
we all gave up butter, selling the entire product of the dairy for three months to make up
the deficit. That was just like Brook Farm. The most ambitious performance in my time was the
rendition of the Oratorio of Saint Paul, which was given twice by request, but this was in
the summer when we had ample room and verge enough in the pine-grove amphitheater.

We had another theater, a very little one, please, where light plays, tableaux, readings and
recitations and similar entertainments were offered by the Dramatic Group during the winter.
One member of this group, Mr. John Glover Drew, was ambitious, and urged the presentation of
something more serious and edifying than merely amusing trifles, and, accordingly, an excursion
was made into the realm of the melodrama. Glover, as he was called, was intensely Byronic,
after the fashion of the times, and he prepared a succession of thrilling scenes from Byron's
sensational poem, "The Corsair," for presentation by his fellow players. This melodramatic
production was staged with all the pasteboard pomp and secondhand circumstance the little workshop
theater could afford and was given with all the fire the high-toned author could impart to
his company. The result was disastrous.

Glover was a very genial, jolly young man, a fellow of infinite jest, and always full of fun,
but his play was distinctly dismal. The spirit of Brook Farm being as distinctly joyous, the
melancholy drama went against the grain, and the performance fell dolefully flat. It was the
one failure among the many successful entertainments offered by the Festal series, and the
members of the cast including the author, were greatly depressed when the curtain went down
with the auditorium already nearly empty. Glover undoubtedly had his bad quarter-of-an-hour
that night, but the next morning he regained his usual equipoise, and cast off his chagrin
with a characteristic gibe, at his own expense. A sympathetic friend ventured to ask if the
fiasco was caused, perhaps, by too much blood and thunder in the piece.

"Not blood and thunder, but thud and blunder," was Glover's quick come-back.

We had two or three other plays in the shop, that season, in one of which my father took a
small part. This was "The Rent Day," by Douglas Jerrold, I think. The play opens with a tableau
reproducing Wilkies' picture of "The Rent Day," and the most important thing my father had
to do was to sit at the head of the table in the character of Master Crumbs, the steward. Peter
Baldwin, who succeeded Mr. Hecker as baker-general--being therefore given the title of General--usually
did the first old man business, but as he was suddenly called to Boston, my father, who happened
to be visiting us at the moment, was asked to fill the role of Master Crumbs, which he consented
to do, on short notice. There never was such a thing as a theater in the Old Colonie and I
can imagine the disturbed feelings of the good Dutch burghers could they have known that their
respected fellow citizen, Charles Sears, Esq., of the pier, was actually appearing on the stage
as a play actor.

One play was given by the boys and girls, or rather by two boys and one girl, Dolly Hosmer,
Craze Barlow and myself. We did Box and Cox, a short farce, produced to piece out a vaudeville
program.

The first hour of our winter evenings at the Hive was, by common consent, assigned to the younger
generation, and story-telling was regularly made its most attractive feature. Mr. Dana was
one of our best story tellers, and his narrations were instructive as well as interesting.
In an extended series he gave us accounts, partly imaginary, of the beginnings of things, of
the discovery and the first use of iron, the evolutions of the boat, of primitive pottery,
of glass, etc.

I was never in Mr. Dana's classes, Greek and German being beyond my reach, but I saw something
of him in the tree-nursery and the orchard where I worked under him, he being Chief of the
Orchard Group. I cannot do better in trying to give an idea of him at Brook Farm than to quote
from Mr. John Thomas Codman's Memoirs, as follows:

"Charles Anderson Dana, when, from Harvard College he presented himself at the farm, was a
young man of education, culture and marked ability.

Later in life, as all the world knows, Mr. Dana attained high rank among the great editors
of this country, and that at a period when personality counted for much more in the conduct
of a newspaper than it does to-day. He served this nation during the Rebellion as Assistant
Secretary of War, and was one of the counselors implicitly trusted by President Lincoln in
that trying time.

Charles Hosmer was another first class raconteur, his musical delivery in reciting apt bits
of poetry and other quotations adding to the pleasure of hearing his accounts rendered. He
gave us modern versions of the Greek myths and hero legends, of Cadmus and Thebes, of Jason
and the Golden Fleece, of the Trojan epic, of the Delphic Oracle, etc.

Several years after leaving Brook Farm I was presented with a copy of Nathaniel Hawthorne's
"Wonder Book," and was surprised and indignant to find the author had actually taken our Brook
Farm stories, told us by Charles Hosmer and printed them, and that, too, without a word of
credit. Of course familiar renditions of the Greek legends have been common property with English
speaking people, for ages, but the ignorant youngster who heard them at Brook Farm firmly believed
the copyright belonged to Charles Hosmer.

The young folk and children were not only told stories but were encouraged to exercise their
own talents in the same direction. Manuel Portales gave an interesting account of native life
in Luzon; and Angus Cameron told us about the French habitants and their narrow little strips
of farms fronting on the Canadian streams, every farmer wanting a littoral right, if only a
few yards wide.

Our evening talks were often monologues, anyone with a word to say having attentive hearers,
if interesting, otherwise--not. A young lady, distinguished as a public speaker, came to us
with what was doubtless an eloquent discourse on Woman's Rights, and was much put out, after
orating awhile, to note that her glowing periods were falling on dull ears. Our women-folk
had all the rights of our men-folk. They had an equal voice in our public affairs, voted for
our officers, filled responsible positions, and stood on exactly the same footing as their
brethren. If women were not so well off in the outer-world, they had only to join our community
or to form others like ours.

A leading temperance advocate undertook to lecture us on the terrible evils of rum drinking
and the crying need of promoting the great cause of total abstinence. We were all total abstainers.
There was not a drop of rum on the Farm. In the exhilarating life of our community there was
no call for stimulants. We had none and wanted none. Rum was a curse in civilized society but
that was because society was disorganized. Let reformers come and help us reform society and
this evil with many others would be remedied. So it was that the popular lecturer after an
hour's earnest discourse came to the conclusion that these Brook Farmers were very impolite
indeed as they were all talking together about plans for the new Phalanstery or some other
equally important subject.

Lectures were not on the list of our favorite pastimes. This indifference to the attractions
of the Lyceum was all the more noticeable as there were several lecturers of repute among our
own members. In the decade 1840-1850 a wave of interest in what was then known as Social Reform
swept over Europe and America, and in the public discussions of the time the teachings of Brook
Farm practical reformers were in constant demand. Dr. Ripley, John Dwight, John Allen, Ephraim
Chapin, Charles A. Dana and others were called out on lecturing tours extending all over the
Northern states, and, as most of this service was gratuitous, the cost to the community was
a heavy tax on our limited resources. The socialistic propaganda was an educational movement
of unquestionable value, and, while the immediate objects contemplated were never realized
and are now lost to sight, yet the agitation had a permanent influence in awakening intelligence,
giving an impetus to thought and enlarging the liberality of the public mind.

Oftentimes the long dining room was promptly cleared after supper for some minor entertainment,
a dance, in which everyone took part, being always in order when nothing else demanded more
immediate attention. Miss Russell was a most efficient teacher of dancing and we all took lessons,
from the gaunt and grizzled old General to the little ones just able to learn their steps.
It was a marked characteristic of the Farmers that they all joined hands in whatever was going
on. With unfailing unanimity they all moved together, flocking like birds in whatever direction
happened to be taken at the moment, even those of the most pronounced individuality preferring
to go the way of the others rather than go his own way alone. The lovers of solitude, self
centered folk, egoists and searchers into the mysteries of their own souls--Emerson, Hawthorne,
Hecker and Margaret Fuller were out of place in this united association where each person wanted,
first of all, to be in harmony with the common mind.

The dance was so much a matter of course that no preparations were needed save the putting
away of the tables and benches. The music was always ready, a dozen or more players of the
violin and piano relieving each other in rendering sets of cotillons, waltzes and polkas, the
latter dance being then just in fashion.

Next to the dance, some form of musical diversion was in favor. After the reorganization Mr.
Dwight was Chief of the Festal Series, and as he and his fiancee, Mary Bullard, were, in a
way, professionals there was always a musical programe in reserve that could be brought forward
at a moment's notice. We often had musicians of distinction visiting the place, and these gave
us of their best, knowing their virtuosity would be recognized and appreciated. Carlo Bassini,
an eminent violinist, played for us with great acceptance. His daughter, Frances Ostinelli,
who boarded at the Farm several weeks, sang most delightfully. She had a glorious voice and,
as Madame Biscacianti, subsequently attained fame as a cantatrice.

The Hutchinson Family, once widely known at home and abroad, but now pretty much forgotten,
made a one-night-stand with us; and a company of Swiss Bell Ringers also favored us in the
same way.

The star artist who pleased us youngsters more than any other was Christopher P. Cranch. He
was not a professional, at that time, having just completed his course of study for the ministry,
but he was certainly a most successful entertainer. There was nothing he could not do. He was
a painter of more than fair ability, a sweet singer, a poet, a mighty good story-teller--and
we knew a good story-teller when we heard one--and he could play on any instrument from an
organ to a jewsharp. Whatever he undertook he did well, and his range of accomplishment was
amazing. As Miss Russell remarked his versatility amounted to universatility. We liked and
admired Mr, Cranch very much, and with all his superficial levity he possessed sterling qualities
that commanded our respect. As an old school song says:

  "True winter joys are many
  With many a dear delight
  We frolic in the snowdrift,
  And then the Winter night."

The many winter joys were all that such joys could be, and young folk, not afraid of the weather,
made the most of them. The winter nights at the Hive were fairly filled with dear delights,
and the youngest of the young folk had their due share of the evening pleasures until nine
o'clock when they went to bed, except on special occasions like the giving of a play, or a
concert with some celebrity from Boston as a star attraction. The winter had its pleasures,
but it was summer that was the real joyous season. There was a dear delight then, in just living
in the open air, as most of us did the greater part of every day. Work in the fields with interesting
companions, was an exemplification of the socialistic doctrine of attractive industry. Men
and women, boys and girls, drawn together in groups by special likings for the work to be done,
made labor not only light but really pleasant.

Our entertainments, too, were in these happy days almost exclusively free from the limitations
of four walls and a ceiling. Rambles in the woods and fields, excursions to Chestnut Hill or
Cow Island, rowing parties on Charles River, ball-games, athletic contests, swimming matches,
everything the Greeks ever did and more than they ever thought of. Even our meals conveniently
simple as they were, frequently took the form of impromptu picnics on the Knoll.

The center of summer festivities was a natural amphitheater in the beautiful pine-woods. Here
was a little hollow, clear of trees which served admirably well as an auditorium, and a bank
at one end, leveled down with very little artifice, made a spacious stage, or, if required,
a suitable rostrum. Here we had plays worth seeing and concerts worth hearing. Here, too, Sunday
services were sometimes held, to the scandalizing of our Puritan neighbors, though when Dr.
Channing preached a saintly sermon and Mr. Dwight's quartet rendered the Gregorian chants,
the service was an appropriate and impressive expression of sincere religious sentiment.

Some of our Puritan neighbors called us heretics because we did not believe in infant damnation
or some equally profitable and comforting doctrine of the orthodox faith, and, furthermore,
we actually sang hymns in Latin. All that was very bad to be sure, but then we kept the commandments,
eleven of them, ten in the old testament and one in the new, and we dealt fairly with all men.
We went to church too, either having Sunday services at home or attending Theodore Parker's
church in Brookline. However, both Theodore Parker and Dr. Ripley were Unitarians, so that
did not help us very much in the opinion of our critics.

It may almost be said that Brook Farm was as much an outgrowth of Unitarianism as of Transcendentalism.
Nearly all the first members were Unitarians and many of the later comers were of the same
faith. The congregation of the Unitarian church at Brookline usually contained a considerable
percentage of Brook Farmers, and at times a Unitarian minister from the Farm officiated in
that sacred edifice. Rev. Dr. Ripley, Rev. John S. Dwight, Rev. George P. Bradford, Rev. Warren
Burton, Rev. John Allen and Rev. Ephraim Chapin were resident ministers, and Rev. Ralph Waldo
Emerson, Rev. William H. Channing and Rev. James Freeman Clarke were warmly interested in the
Association. Charles K. Newcomb and Christopher P. Cranch also immediate friends, were educated
for the Unitarian ministry. Dr. Codman in his "Recollections" speaks of seeing five Unitarian
clergymen dancing in the pine-grove at once.

One of the features of our holiday doings was the procession which spontaneously came into
order, after dinner, when there was anything to the fore in the pine-woods. Then a parade took
place like unto the wedding march of the villagers in an old fashioned opera. There was always
some display of decoration on such occasions, usually floral, the girls, wearing garlands and
wreaths or sprays of vine and chaplets of leaves. Headed, perhaps by the boys with fife and
drum, or by the members of the cast if a play was to be given, the whole community, young men
and maidens, old men and children, went singing from one end of the place to the other, that
is from the Hive near the entrance to the Amphitheater near the far side of the grove.

When a high festival was to be celebrated, the procession took on the picturesque dignity of
a pageant. A real pageant we dearly loved, but the show was too expensive to be offered more
than once or twice annually. We had to hire musicians as our own were too busy to serve. Then
the costumes and banners and hangings took a good bit of money, though artistic ingenuity helped
out amazingly. Where all the magnificence came from was a mystery, the splendors of purple
and gold, of rich draperies, fine furbelows, shining garments and glittering adornments being
really splendid. Bonico and I, as Heralds, for example, once were superbly arrayed in white
tabards emblazoned with red dragons and gold embroidery, cut from paper and pasted on white
muslin. There was a deal of real, genuine, sumptuous finery brought out from family wardrobes
for the pageant, but the hint as to the Heralds indicated how an effect could be produced at
small cost.

