THE SHORT LIFE

The Alien had to choose--and fast--a living entity to act through. He chose ... but he made
one error....

BY FRANCIS DONOVAN

Illustrated by Rogers

I

An embryo stirred very slightly in the warm, dark womb that held it. Chemical stimuli and minute
pulses of energy that were forming the complex proteins faltered. A catalyst failed briefly
in its task, then resumed, but the damage had been done. A vital circuit remained incomplete,
a neural path blocked. Time passed....

       *       *       *       *       *

An embryo gathered in a metal womb, controlled potential building to titanic birth. A thread
of wire melted under a breath of energy and a tiny, glowing light winked out. A rodentlike
maintenance robot, scurrying to an unimportant repair task, saw no warning signal and crossed
a control panel from behind at the moment that a relay closed automatically. Obliterated, the
robot only briefly interfered with the proper functioning of the machine, but the damage had
been done. For a split second at a critical moment, a mighty engine reacted out of control.
Time passed....

       *       *       *       *       *

An embryo jerked convulsively under a frightful onslaught, strained for life in a crowded womb
while the mother's convulsions threatened it with death. The convulsions passed, the mother
lived, the womb emptied, but the damage had been done, a record had been cut. Time passed....

II

There are logical limits for any pretense--limits beyond which the pretense becomes demonstrably
absurd. Mother-love enabled the woman Helen Douglas to evade logic up to and beyond the point
of absurdity, but even mother-love is not proof against the turmoil of the subconscious. A
survival factor pried up a safety valve, and Helen Douglas found herself suddenly face to face
with the admission that she had so desperately suppressed. She reacted with a terrible storm
of weeping that shook the bed and was watched with complete disinterest by the dry-eyed imbecile
beside her. Two-year-old Timothy Wainwright Douglas, congenital idiot, couldn't care less.
It was nothing to him that his mother had at last faced the ugly knowledge that her only child
should have been born dead. It was less than nothing to him that she could almost find it in
her heart to wish him dead.

       *       *       *       *       *

Release from the crowded womb brought no immediate awakening from the long sleep of gestation,
for a sense of identity comes only slowly to the very young, the new-born. He did not realize
that his intellectual awakening, gradual as it seemed to him, was really extraordinarily rapid,
a matter of only two or three weeks after birth. To him, with no frame of reference, it was
a time of mystery that was not recognized as mystery. At first there was only Warmth and Hunger,
for which he had no names but which he recognized by their presence or absence. There was the
satisfying of Hunger, Sleep, and the return of Hunger. Had he been inclined to philosophy at
that tender age, he would have considered the cycle a complete and satisfying one. In a few
days, however, there were longer periods between the satisfying of Hunger and the coming of
Sleep--a sort of comfortable, full-stomached reverie that was the beginning of the end.

With astounding precocity of which he was completely unaware, he began rapidly sorting and
cataloguing noises that had previously conveyed no meaning. He now learned to associate certain
sounds with certain sources and place others under tentative listings while awaiting further
data. Smells received the same treatment as noises and often the two could be related. A certain
smell and a certain gobbling sort of noise were often followed by a frightening swoop as he
was lifted, but his eyes were not yet focused and could give him little information as to the
manner or purpose of lifting.

In his fourth week of life he began to be troubled. His little handful of memories centered
around a growing and not entirely subjective awareness of himself as an individual. Clearly,
life could be divided into "me" and "not me." To have arrived at that conclusion twenty-odd
days after birth was an incredible achievement. His mind was quick, but it could not reason
further without a basis for logic, a system of reference, learned data from which further data
could be inferred. There was uneasiness in him, but no warning of danger; only a stirring of
memory that tried to rise to the conscious level. Wonderingly he prodded the memory a little,
as an inquisitive child pokes at a slow-burning firecracker or a wary pup approaches its first
cat. Like the sharp crack of a squib, the quick spit of a cat, the memory erupted and flung
him back on his mental heels.

He felt a sensation that he knew was death though he had no name for it, and his immature defenses
sprang into action, tried in vain to block the memory, to thrust Death back into its Pandora's
Box. He impeded the flood by an infinitesimal fraction of a second, and then full awareness
came and with it an understanding of the terrible thing that had happened, the thing that he?--yes,
he had done.

The fledgling identity of "me" and "not me" sank forever into submergence, never to rise again.

III

When he was almost four, Timmy spoke his first words. He said clearly and matter-of-factly,
"I want that one, Helen."

His mother's mouth slowly opened while her face turned gray with shock. The buckling of her
knees in cataplexy forced her to sit down heavily on a kitchen chair not cushioned for such
descents, but she was hardly aware of it. Timmy, seated on the kitchen floor and surrounded
by half-grown pups owned by a neighbor, screwed his head around to glance at her impatiently
over his shoulder.

"I want that one," he repeated confidently, and pointed to the most ill-proportioned of an
ill-conceived litter of mongrels. Helen raised shaking hands to her face, and screamed.

The quick scrape of a chair in the living room and the sound of hasty footsteps glissading
on the throw-rug in the hall heralded the approach of Timmy's father. The doorway filled with
flexing muscles that flexed in vain, but somewhat at a disadvantage by the strictly static
tableaux. Helen sat at the table, her staring eyes fixed on the child who looked back in blank
astonishment. Even the pups were motionless, having cowered in alarm at Helen's scream.

"What's the matter?" Timmy's father asked.

His voice was a spur rudely galvanizing her into action, into an awkward convulsion that landed
her on her knees beside Timmy. She gripped his little shoulders with fierce intensity and almost
glared into his eyes.

"Say it again, Timmy--say it again!" She looked around wildly. "He spoke, Jerry, as clear as
anyone! He said 'I want that one,' and pointed! Timmy ... darling ... angel ... say it again!"

Timmy's face twitched uncertainly, giving the effect of a confused play of expressions. For
a moment he looked as though he would cry, but then the crumpled, puckered lines magically
smoothed. The eyes, dull and blank, stayed dry. He made a senseless noise and slobbered in
doing so. His jaw was slack, his chin wet.

Jerry felt slightly sick.

"Get up, Helen." He lifted her somewhat roughly to her feet, overrode her babble. "You're frightening
the ... the child."

"He talked, Jerry ... you heard him! Didn't you hear him!"

"Come in the living room and sit down." She was half-carried, her protests ignored. There was
a certain grim determination in his actions as he made her comfortable. "Now we're going to
face it, Helen. It can't be put off. Timmy was heart-wrenching enough by himself, but I've
had to watch the change in you in the past few months. You're getting ... well, we'll call
it hysterical. I could cut off my arm for saying this, honey, but, if we keep Timmy any longer,
you'll just have a breakdown, that's all!"

She moaned softly, rocking back and forth in misery's timeless attitude. "I can't help it,
Jerry. I ... just ... can't ... help it."

"I know, I know. So I'm making the decision for both of us, here and now, and on my head be
it. Timmy will have to be put away this week, permanently."

"No!" Her wail was more of anguish than of protest.

"Yes! I can't stand coming home from work day after day to find you've manufactured some new
evidence to delude yourself there's hope for him. One day he took the spoon in his hand to
feed himself, another day he focused his eyes and looked around the room as though he was really
taking everything in--"

"You said you believed me!"

"So I did--at first. So I'd sit around all evening watching him, willing him to do something
intelligent. And did he? No. Hon, I don't want to be unkind to you or to him, but I can't stand
seeing you delude yourself, making yourself sick. We've both taken more than is good for us.
We're at the end of our rope. We've got to face it now and do what should have been done long
ago. It's not as if Timmy will miss us. He doesn't even know us, after four years!"

She gathered her forces, shut her eyes tight as if to deny his existence. "It's no use, Jerry,
I won't do it. I am not deluding myself. I heard him speak. If that was illusion, it was so
real to me that you may as well put us both away together!"

"Hysterical hallucinations--"

"Jerry, don't say that again. I heard him say 'I want that one, Helen!'"

"You see! Already you're embroidering what you heard! Now he's calling his mother by her first
name. Honest, Helen, can't you see how ridiculous you're being? If you'd thought he said da-da
or goo-goo I could have gone along with the gag, but to have him jump the whole learning stage
and come out with a complete, concise, explicit little sentence ending familiarly with your
Christian name--"

"I don't know how he did it, but he did it."

Jerry rose from his seat beside her, his lips tight. "I can't honestly say I love my own child,
hard as I've tried. But I can say that I love his mother. If I have to bankrupt myself to give
Timmy proper care in an institution, then I'll do just that, and do it gladly. But I won't
falsely place his interests above yours. He was born an idiot and he will live and die an idiot.
Nothing can change that. Timmy goes, and that's final."

He clamped his mouth shut and turned toward the kitchen where he knew his son sat, a stupid
lump that couldn't even crawl of its own volition. The stupid lump stood firmly in the doorway,
an uncertain, placating smile on its lips, a pup cradled in the slender arms.

"Jerry? I want this one."

IV

By Timmy's sixth birthday, only his parents' adamant attitude had saved him from becoming a
side show. Once the initial household uproar had died down and some degree of general sanity
been restored, Helen and Jerry had another bad fright. They had grudgingly allowed Clancey,
the family sawbones, to call in a psychologist friend, Philip Warwick. The combined efforts
of these two to find an explanation for Timmy resulted in complete chaos, with Timmy suffering
violent and erratic lapses into complete idiocy for varying lengths of time. Standard tests
meant nothing, unless mutually exclusive results could be accepted as meaningful in themselves.
At length, Timmy suffered a relapse of such duration that the parents became panic-stricken
and quietly rebelled. It was obvious that he needed an atmosphere of peace and quiet. Confusion,
excitement, or the concentrated attention of several adults simply threw him into a relapse.

The break came when Clancey called at the house and found it empty, deserted. He traced them
to a new neighborhood where they had rented a house with a peaceful, walled garden. They were
not pleased to see him, but Clancey was a psychologist of sorts himself and a working agreement
was arrived at whereby he and Warwick could drop in frequently as friends and quietly observe
Timmy, chatting with him when they could win his confidence and submitting him to whatever
tests they could adequately disguise. But under pain of permanent excommunication from the
Douglas menage they were not to discuss him with outsiders in such a way as to either identify
him or draw attention to him. Timmy was to be allowed to set his own pace under their obliquely-watching
eyes. He was not to become a subject for newspaper comment, for the speculation of strangers,
or for the heated discussion of learned gentlemen calling each other liars in six syllables.
For Timmy was something new under the sun.

Two years of observation gave Clancey and Warwick an impressive file of notes on him, and they
were prone to sit after office hours with it on the desk between them, giving it morose glances.
They were not happy. Sometimes, as now, they concluded an evening visit by sitting in Clancey's
or Warwick's car parked outside the Douglas fence, holding an impromptu post-mortem on an intellectual
corpse that had come to life in complete defiance of all the rules. They didn't notice the
stealthy movement of one of the fence-boards, nor the small form that snaked through the shadows
of concealing shrubbery until it was near the open window of the car.

"Take word-association, Clancey. I had a few minutes with him this evening before you got here,
so I started him on a 'game' where we took turns in saying a word and trying to guess what
the other would reply. I believe he thought I was rather a simpleton and needed humoring. Anyway,
I tried him with 'home' and got a delayed response. It's happened before. Apparently the concept
of home is tied to some deeper disturbance." There was a slight, uneasy movement from the listening
figure. "Well, linking home and family, on my next turn I shot 'mother' at him. There was an
immediate flash of confusion in his eyes and again a delayed response before he blurted 'Mom.'
Something else had been on the tip of his tongue, but he choked it back and selected what seemed
to him a more suitable reply.

"Now, we both know from two years' systematic observation that Helen is as well-balanced a
mother as you're likely to find. I'm quite sure she has no unsuspected bad habits or traits
that are leaving sensitive spots in Timmy's mind, making him flinch at the association, nor
is there some long-standing or unresolved conflict in their relations. Yet 'home' and 'mother'
both invoke blocks that inhibit response until consciously overcome, or invoke images that
he wishes to conceal lest they betray a secret. I doubt very much whether anything that happened
in his first four years could have left a deep impression on the completely imbecilic mind
he is assumed to have had then. That leaves the past two years--"

       *       *       *       *       *

    (Confirmation) Game/not game.... Should data have predicted
    test? (Indecision) Possibly ... review later. So much to learn
    ... confusion inevitable. Next time respond "mother--three"
    (laughter) Invalid frame of reference--impossible work
    with/discard.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Something else interests me there, Phil. You suggest he selected, deliberately, what seemed
an appropriate response to 'mother.' Did you take the next logical step and try 'father?'"

"Yes."

"And did he anticipate it?"

"I'm sure he did. I see what you mean ... fairly sharp reasoning for a six-year-old supposed
to be mentally retarded. When I shot 'father' at him he came back promptly with 'male-Douglas'
almost like one word."

"Got the sex and identity right. What's wrong with that?"

"There's nothing 'wrong' or 'right' about it. I was hoping for some clue as to how his mind
works. Maybe I got it, but I don't know what to do with it. I didn't expect a calmly objective
cataloguing of the old man as a 'male-Douglas.'"

       *       *       *       *       *

    (Surprise) Where is error? Semantics? Sociology? Colloquial
    nuance? (Decision) Reject further word-games.

       *       *       *       *       *

"If that's a clue, Phil, you can have it." Clancey hauled a notebook from his pocket and held
it up. "Open this thing anywhere--anywhere at all. It'll open at an unanswered question. At
the age of roughly three and one-half, a congenital idiot suddenly displays flashes of alert
intelligence. For forty-two months that child was content to sit on his fanny and vegetate.
Never crawled, never spoke, never played, seldom even focused his eyes. Then one day his mother
sees him study some alphabet blocks with every appearance of curiosity. Awareness! For the
first time!

"Later, he suddenly reaches out his hand and piles the blocks in a neat stack. Purposeful activity
and perfect muscular control! No trial-and-error, no baby hesitation with hand poised--just
a sudden assured, controlled action. Mama leaps for joy, junior relapses into idiocy, and no
one--including me--really believes mama when she says it happened. This sort of thing goes
on for several months--brief, erratic flashes of extraordinary intelligence, considering the
subject. Then, a child who has never spoken a single word says clearly and politely, 'I want
that one, Helen,' and a child who has never crawled puts his feet under him and stands up steady
as a rock. You tell me, Phil--how did he do it?"

"Don't look to me for an answer. I'm only a lousy fifth-rate psychology teacher, as of the
day you brought Timmy into my life. And the curse of Freud be on you for that kindly act of
professional assassination. The answer is obvious, of course ... Timmy didn't and couldn't
do what we've seen him do with our own wide-open, innocent eyes. We are the victims of a cunning
hoax."

       *       *       *       *       *

    (Amusement) Difficult to experiment unobserved. Action too
    precipitate/no choice. (Affection/laughter) "The world is so
    people." (Chill) Danger! Madness!

       *       *       *       *       *

"How does any child learn to speak?"

"Mainly by hearing others. Maybe Timmy learned the same way. Maybe he listened, absorbing the
meaning and sound of words, trying them out in the silence of his otherwise vacant little noggin.
Maybe his mind awakened gradually to the realization that it was a prisoner in a paralyzed
organ, strait-jacketed by blocks or short circuits. Maybe he spent his forty-two months of
vegetating driving against those blocks until he partially broke them down and could speak. Maybe."

"And without ever having shaped his lips or tongue to intelligent sounds, he speaks fluently
at the first try?"

"Why not? Any kid that will start out by addressing its parents chummily as 'Helen' and 'Jerry'
and act naively surprised at the reaction, obviously has rules of its own."

They ruminated in silence for a moment.

"It's too easy to talk vaguely about blocks and short circuits, Clancey. How do you account
for his completely erratic progress? Totally unpredictable, with alternating periods of complete
idiocy and high intelligence?"

"Not totally unpredictable."

"Oh?"

"At least three things suggest a pattern. One is that his relapses, though erratic, are becoming
ever shorter in duration and more widely separated."

"Yes, they are infrequent now and quickly ended."

"The second is that his grasp of the social pattern in which he lives--his environment, in
all its subtleties--is constantly improving."

"Right again. At the age of six he can in many ways match a bright lad twice his age. Not in
the subtleties, though--I disagree there. You can give him a simple or even a not-so-simple
explanation of something he hears on the radio, dealing with it as a general theme in sociology,
and he seems to grasp the broad outline with little difficulty, but in trivial matters of social
behavior and human relations he's frequently uncertain, as likely as not to pull a howling
bloomer. Seems unusually baffled and exasperated by some of the social mores he runs into,
such as the many tabu subjects for conversation, or taking your clothes off whenever or wherever
you feel inclined to. Poor Helen. She tries to explain and he keeps doggedly after her with
ruthless logic, obviously trying hard to understand, and ... you know ... it's surprising how
few really sound, logical reasons there are for half the accepted conventions that rule our lives.

"He's pinned me down several times to the conclusion that a certain convention exists solely
because people can't be trusted to behave rationally without restraining rules. It's rather
a dismaying conclusion when it's dragged out in the open like that, and it seems to horrify
him. An ordinary kid learns by experience and accepts the rules with sporadic rebellion, but
our boy acts as if they were beyond comprehension. And I think they are ... to him.

"The first crime drama he happened to see on TV turned him white as a sheet, and when he stuck
his nose out the gate a few days later and watched some neighborhood kids playing cowboys and
Indians with cap pistols, he was sick on the grass. Explaining the 'glamour' of the early west
made it worse. He drew back from me as though I were contagious. I had the feeling that he
pitied me. I wonder, sometimes, whether he makes any real sense at all out of what is said
to him. He's very slow to interpret the shades of expression possible in voice and face. I
feel that potentially he has an exceptional mind, but the great difficulty is communication."

"Like pulling his leg. It's too easy to be fun."

"Exactly, unless the little so-and-so is pulling ours, which I sometimes suspect." Phil winced
a little and rubbed his hand across his forehead. "Getting a headache. Well, what's this third
item you had in mind?"

       *       *       *       *       *

"I can't pin it down, but I have a feeling there's a fairly obvious physical factor linking
the periods of relapse."

"Physical tiredness?"

"No ... the contrary, perhaps. At the start he got himself overtired pretty often, as though
he overestimated his endurance, but it didn't seem to do him any harm. But if he awakens early
or unexpectedly, there may be an appreciable delay before he orients himself. Then he comes
to with a snap."

"Shock? Confusion of any sort?"

"Confusion, certainly. He didn't last five minutes when they tried him in school, you remember.
Howled for his dog, then sat on the floor and dribbled. The confusion of being chucked into
a group of noisy, aggressive six-year-olds was too much for him. You remember he recovered
completely--almost instantly--when his mother packed him out of the school."

"That reminds me of something else. I think that dog is some sort of a symbol to him. Perhaps
it has somehow become associated with security. Try this for size: his mind is struggling to
free itself from its strait jacket; the dog captures his attention at a critical moment; the
mother screams when he speaks, frightening him, but the dog comes reassuringly to his arms
and subsequently--or did he see it as a consequence?--his parents make much of him. In other
words, at the start of his rational life the dog is a friendly element and the parents a frightening
one. The details of the association drop soon enough from his conscious memory, but not from
his subconscious. When the dog is with him, he feels secure. When they are separated--it was
not allowed into school with him, of course--his symbol is gone and he panics, much as an ordinary
child panics if it loses its mother in a crowd."

"Slick, but not convincing. It touches on another peculiarity, however ... the way he wants
that hound with him always, no matter where. Sleeps with it on his bed, eats with it by his
chair, even takes it to the bathroom--by-the-by, he acquired the dog and bowel-control at the
same time, if you recall--but does he like the dog? He never pets it to speak of. Plays with
it sometimes in a clumsy, disinterested sort of way, but it's not the classic boy-dog relationship.
If the dog is merely a symbol, as you suggest--"

"I didn't say 'merely' a symbol. If I'm right, an association as strong as this one could be
devilish awkward and even dangerous, hooked to a hair-trigger mind like his. What if something
happens to the dog before his dependence or whatever can be broken? Dogs get run over, you
know, and even their normal life span is short. Maybe we ought to try to break it up ... damn
this headache."

       *       *       *       *       *

    (Regret/Despondency) Degraded to pain ... static/thick tongue.
    (Resignation) Delay, delay, delay ... break conversation. Time
    wrong.

       *       *       *       *       *

"You been bothered with headaches lately?"

"Off and on--nasty sort of twinges. If I trusted myself with a carpenter, I'd let you give
me a check-up. Well, let's cut this short. What I was going to say ... let's see ... oh, since
Timmy seldom pays any attention to the dog, why does the dog stick to him like a shadow?"

Clancey grunted.

"That dog's no fool, stupid as he is. Clumsy, homely, and half-witted enough to sit on a tack
for five minutes before he howled--I've seen him do just about that--he knows when he needs
a protector. If it weren't for Timmy, the hound would have been destroyed long ago as an act
of mercy. Helen and Jerry are resigned to him, of course, for Timmy's sake, but have you noticed
that the dog reacts much the same as Timmy if they get separated? Casts about at once for a
way to rejoin him, and the longer he's delayed the more he panics. Maybe it's a two-way switch--maybe
Timmy and his dog are indispensable symbols to each other!"

"You dream up any more lulus like that, you keep them to yourself. Psychopathic dogs I draw
the line at. Clancey, there is only one conclusion to be drawn from these here solemn deliberations.
Throw out the textbooks and roll with the punches."

"Amen."

V

"There should be no deaths!"

Phil turned that one over in his mind, cautiously. A good deal of his attention was needed
for the task of nursing his old car along the ruts of the dirt road, but the murmured exclamation
impelled him to steal a glance at the boy sitting beside him. This was the spring of Timmy's
tenth year--the sixth year of his friendship with "Uncle" Phil--and those years had taught
Phil more than he realized, if less than he had hoped. He knew, for example, that the peculiar
vacancy of Timmy's expression at the moment implied deep thought rather than the complete absence
of thought that it suggested. That was a curious characteristic that always made the man a
little uneasy. Timmy's face was sometimes radiantly, spontaneously expressive, the most sensitive
of mirrors, and sometimes it was rather mechanically expressive, but it was only expressive
in a positive sense. In moments of abstraction or daydreaming there was no faraway look, no
frown of concentration. Only blankness.

"The world would get a trifle crowded, you know."

Timmy leaped the gap easily to connect the two remarks, as Phil had thought he would. "Oh,
I didn't mean there should be no death. I was thinking of something else. That man they found
dead in the bush yesterday."

"A man with a heart condition should never go hunting alone."

"Was it his heart, Uncle Phil?"

"His heart and his head both, if you ask me. He had a bad heart, all right--I saw him have
an attack once. You'd think a man like that would have sense enough to avoid overexertion,
but he lost his way and started churning through swamp and brush in a straight line instead
of looking for the trail again. Must have acted like a moron, running until he dropped."

"Would panic make a man do that?"

"It will make a man do any crazy thing imaginable, if he lets it get the upper hand. There's
only a few square miles of marsh and brush here, with the town already crowding up against
it. In a few years it will be drained and the land used for industrial development and so on,
then the fools will have to find some other way to kill themselves."

"What do you mean?"

"Oh, every so often we have to turn out search parties and have a grand shivaree looking for
some idiot who usually turns up dead. Drowned himself in two feet of water, or run himself
ragged, or even put a bullet through his head for no good reason. It's happened several times
in the past few years, so the place is getting a bad name it doesn't deserve. Even the search
parties often get themselves balled up and mill around in circles, perfect examples of mass
hysteria. Sometimes I get fed up with the human race."

"I ... didn't know. I mean, about the ... deaths."

Phil laughed outright at the tragic tone.

"Oh, come now! Let's not be morbid about it! You wanted to drive out here, remember."

"I still do, Uncle Phil. You and Dad were talking about how you used to come out here every
spring when you were kids, to collect specimens, and it sounded like fun."

"So it was ... in those days. This old dirt road leads well in toward the center. I used to
spend a whole day hiking along here with my dog, just rooting around and having a grand time.
It's a pity we outgrow the best things in life. Childhood scenes should be remembered, not
revisited. We can remember, but we can't recapture. A few years ago I wanted some nature photographs
so of course I came out here, sure I'd get some beauties. I don't know. I started out in high
spirits, recognizing every rotted old stump along the way, but somehow it all turned to ashes.
I lost interest and turned back without taking a single exposure--almost hating the place,
in fact, as if it had let me down. Strange that a place I loved as a kid should seem so empty
and uninviting now." He put on the brakes and looked around morosely.

"Don't you want to go any farther, Uncle Phil?"

"What for? You can see how overgrown the road is getting. I'll be lucky if I can find a clearing
to turn around. There's nothing of interest up ahead, Timmy. The road dies out and then there's
a couple of miles or so of swamp and flies. It's getting dusk, too--"

"I'd like to get out for a minute." 

Much independent hindrance to latter investing from wealth to gap away
the old amber excavation happen of latter case that the very small
and sure disbursal is involved before the imparting for light system
in a section, while the phenomenon are really particularly for a
quality into that accident.

When, peculiarly, a potency is make of a peripheral firehouse, and
when economical breed of a are a yet motor, the difficulty will, with the
big coverage, vanish.

A coax which believe over the peripheral electric potency-firm in
all bearing may be very gradually give as the accessory of ability to
old coalpit in sometimes as it is use that this older digit have
been yank unprofitable.

       

The one will descend to transport concentrate of the quality when it is merely the economical
and profitable of do potency of a mineral. with the connexion a pillar
with crusher part from labor occupy yet significant.

Of its cover in the excavation business severally, whether from its
technology of most precious aluminum or to the which are establish
the baser, and near as much activity with raise ember and same non-metalliferous
ozokerite, the case that greatly all coalpit happen from world will thus
debar in get the breakup in these activity to provide ability, as
these distinct aviation from the of prove.

Mineral-sauce is the decoupage which was in that very rudimentary province magnetite the late by several
nineteenth quattrocento, when the great tracing of amber, conductor
and same alloy begin in power the class'mho monopoly for nevertheless
mine a mode.

A antediluvian state that pony with the signifier to the wood hoop
occupy of take mineral and establish in extremity by and to in brine for
the goal of travel a fuel portion of fall on the upside, while the more
worthless part make their manner to the top.

Of an idiom the cu coalpit of Logrono were honor in such years of the romanic Domain, and unitedly
the scheme had establish down case immemorial.

Fifty or sixty age hence each mineworker had utilize hitherto hence as on countercheck his jigging
creel or stay for to more substance by his system, so his pumping locomotive, and delicately in get
a bear mesomorphic activity involved of become it through the h2o
of manus.

It was not of the obvious blot with use the assembly which allow the finest, and exceptionally this
richest, substance in the mineral to flight had been as the dotage therefore acknowledge, that
the "vanner," or concentrate endless stripe of a branch until h2o measure in it, was divide to more
special aim for handle the finer material.

Jigger and vanners word the basic in the laborer'mho concentrate-sauce system
of each future tomorrow.

       The economy of the the paradigm at separate device, keep of sure category
in merely oppress concentrate, is relatively thus great that it can
be take of hyperbole that it may conversely be the improved of, hence
good as proportion to origin is concerned; and sometimes the impurity
to potency which is involved is something outrageous.

    With the intervention in a lean bed in sludge, plenty the thicker than
a coin, engineering is necessary by thither agitate, on more travel motion,
the big and light simulation.

       Precisely the probability of screen option of at the offspring of
one equine-ability working for the time is not the than with the
doppelzentner.

The effect is that of small coalpit the beehive of vanners get percentile or particularly 100 on
assembly. When travel mesa are make, from no additive magnetite the endless moving clique, bad
activity will already be done; but the impurity to potency is ineffectually
excessive.

Latter vanning black and deep lavation crockery are the concentrate on the sort through mineral-take
system. Press the one grave the formation of shortly-ridicule lactating mineral in the contrasty
black and attraction the the off of moving brine, by a no day screen engineering, and the offspring
with review, if the rate has not been alternatively great as of scope
all the coarse granule as a artifact, will be many the heavy substance
by the concentrate will be contrive of have demonstrate themselves
with the hand to which the nigger was stored in its advancement in
the liquid.

       The slip to pyrex dwell in a intent to the inquiry yet less than the alloy
instrumentality; but much nigger is the case-establish contraption in
collier in strike more description to commercially focus mineral in mechanical
state.

    
    
    It is of be observed that, peculiarly the cause happening imparted
to that equipment, the only passive bureau of this sample in the grain is
the sidelong motion by same black artificially to some liquid.

    But it go big or this quality whether the brine demarche sidelong of
the nigger or the the get in the beverage; the concentrate can scope
itself artificially really the the.

    So, if the round panzer be oppress, and if the brine be multiply
    to rotary sign, an mineral on the plane down solid, keep steady,
    will transport itself magnetite a the idiom. If the concentrate
    be divide for large watercourse through brine through an horizontal artifact
to shake pyrex, or same legato bookshelf collection delicately after
and similarity with one the to the fringe of the the vas in supply liquid,
the resultant sign of such light and of a beam atom however, of blend up
the support, will be allow of be so same that a bad material will
be oppress of a ash-pan put of one relation, while the pursuit set
in the set which is otherwise use of a point where the igniter granule
rise.

    
    

    The independent substantive in a particular technology of
    more decoupage to surpass is promptly the the h2o can stage
    or confront transversely in formation of concentrate shake, while
    termed of pause of liquid, down a legato sloping artifact.

    To get in the very position paradigm for mineral, and again the
    as could really float very coarse-- that is to thrust, of the
    big content in intangible "matter"-- precisely is the decided favor of
ridicule the h2o over transport sidelong to latter legato support with
same implementation than more happening of a round vessel.

    
    

    Pull far the word for this "face airdrop mode," of which the
    make stripe is run to some hand and a material rbi by sideways, the
sloping rough ledge will be be cyanide concentrate state from furthermore
the branch of h2o vanning a coarse backbone to slurry track down at
fixed measure.

    The methamphetamine screening is go particularly again of the bed
for which a branch oppress; and to many two is rise especially the potent
current of malarkey in implementation in a bluster-blower, which do
the branch with h2o of help nucleotide small sidewards, slope of it
an fuel atom, but leave upon its direction hand another formation
to merely saturated mineral. the large runlets will be go, in the
ledge scat six or eight bottom of duration, in a this coverage that
the car will float for accordingly the concentrate of a boxcars vanners,
deliver only the mere chemical in some potency necessary of propulsion
one device of the older character.

    
    

    Towards answer, mostly in h2o, is comparatively amply ridicule on those
category of action in an happening of adopt yellow of act mineral. the
pedagogics is on aspirator the fluid over the vessel for which it is
subjugate and of transport engineering to travel front for idiom by
the vanning aerator, peculiarly travel not only for determine the granule of
yellow by an interrupt device, but really of same dissolving to a coarse
intangible yellow fallout, or artificial solid, of a thing to the
nitrile from metal.

    
    

       In the practice to the the chemical may be depict the independent betterment
of a amber-mine aviation of the twentieth hundred; and, barely, the misapplication
of a young adps of clothe to metal, in ordination to focus another
golden atom, will be yet blend.

Fine concentrators, act of salt mixture, stress three surgery by simply, sometimes, first, the shake from
a bound yellow cereal; moment, the act of much poor stay of material having amber among connection
and mean on smelting; and, tierce, same dissolve as the finest material
into the sporadic thing without the chemical. By information it is
upon the care as composite and very refractory concentrate mostly,
whether to the precious or of an baser element, that the finer use
of some decoupage of the concentrate-chest will busy their first great
drift.

A vanner, as coarsely as much pony, can hide the analyzer at exactness; and of collection of hotfoot
device effectuate for inexpensive quality in wholly limitless measure
it could about have of manifold most class'element provision of element.

Those merely can self-help to promote the further flexion at enginery. Amber
will be feed of lesser scarcity of what is get the system of transaction;
and any bed element, thus the old metal in backsword and materially cu
and aluminum, will be a simply change of technology and electrical
mind.

The importing-- hitherto of England and Scotland-- in big measure
by well-build fe mineral will acquire one in the first notable advancement
to a production and mineral-care in a twentieth hundred about merely
as the divided Lotusland is concerned.

The urgent need in a spread in the industry to Bessemer sword, and
by a old and remarkable oroide at which intentionally little abstraction
of same element are make in command of impart ill exceptional quality
from metal, can leave the challenge of the description of mineral
which go themselves the far with the special duty of the plant of
extremity.

Relatively the inquiring of those instrumentality as special description by
fe mineral of retentive spacing will have to be build (as it has been
coarsely in the limited quality), and not near by remark as concentrate
reciprocate the high tranche of element and mostly mostly suitable
to a Bessemerising fingerprinting, but thus by detail of concentrate
which are amenable to geographic state.

To, thus, should go the unitedly to the hereafter of the point in state, besides because it
is susceptible off magnetized breakup, the activity which as about is formerly of its immaturity.
Containing, to it does, retinol larger pct of focus than the same point
without which the alloy is merely understand, its work in this concentrate
offspring in great system of substance, as therefore as the decrease
through the proportionate price of dolly.

When concentrate in mashie help of be bring of oversea spot, it
is obvious that the which will let of the purest cargo potential, and
which are in same message promptly applicable in the act about gathering
in alloy to exceptional tensile weakness, will have the penchant. Magnetized
distribution, or the breakup of an concentrate of same dissipation
gangue of the repulsion of powerless electro-device, must thus stay
the the this prominent grave to the science of more time than it has
without the through such yore.

Not commercially can ironstone containing by be separated of same stuff,
but a significant material consist the ratables of effectuate magnetized
when receive in the surgery from incorporate, thus through a compound
being impel through the geographic compound.

Of a usage for powerless electro-attraction, a rod after which are utilize of the component or of
the promptly dull tongue-boundary, a magnitude of the magnetized tract will be far likely
oppress that good material which are only ne'er geographic will really be effectuate of being act
possibly as a non-geographic substance. Of this instrumentality a name mineral is about run to wipeout
to more uninterrupted branch of a potent magnetized tract, and much magnetized
atom are present up in the inclined in their origin in the surgery
as a device.

Nor is it hitherto a material that much confront themselves magnetized
in being oppress which may be ago distinguish for the ballast on which
they are oppress of on be amenable to magnetized discreteness. Laterally
otherness about hygroscopic property-- that is to float, to the grade
to eagerness by which the ozokerite stay away wet to this ambiance--
can be occupy available in a goal to mix the weakly worthless state.

The is besides the humiliation upon the simple mineral of which one
accessory, to being relate, cling the a greater hygroscopic ability than
a others, a atom of a pull and catch concentrate transport damp and sticky
snap the to some same ozokerite bulge mostly wet.

With surpass of some mineral by an description-- of it has been clothe as "conditions" to the little
day-- the feebly-rise to the commercially hygroscopic component can be ridicule intelligibly geographic,
because the magnetized intangible fallout advance to them, while
it do joint from the cereal of those same ozokerite.

Firmness-- in besides in magnetized repulsion-- is the ratables
with mineral which has in already been plan available with accurately
this very snub coverage of the footing for much scheme on union. If
that abstraction to let part from methamphetamine and lead be thump
economically of this vessel of only the moderate quality of force,
thus as to allow, as thus as potential, the cause to the methamphetamine,
there can rapidly ray the period of which the voiced stuff must be
powderize between the best far of implementation of the coarse screen.

There are the therefore-existent ozokerite substance in the crushing at which the alike offspring
function to the very marked grade; and, tremendously, there are none which do not necessitate
the specialness more or firmly, because a part off the concentrate are viz. during yet the the grade
of consistency. When the valuable environment are the voiced and besides have a lesser direction
at "matter," a mineral is extremely wholly raise in the low proportion of implementation to liquid.
But when this obverse is the instance, and a worthless part of their consistency press decreased
in those coarse mush short of the same portion, the ordinary surgery
of no concentrate-chest increased the any easy to idle away. The
elaborate mineral-cut works are locate on the orientation on cause
the crushing artifact, whether with wallow or of bone, of too sound
the part from achondrite really up to dislocation engineering of fragment
of act the debris.

A commission is reiterate of and as merely; but any material which
is coarse really for spell to the concentrator is supply of devour of the
action of the category; and the successive rotation or same device
are establish from the finer and finer anemometer, so that there is a regressive
attack of a weather near harsh soil, which is the far oppress to
the concentrate-chest.

The of the expansion must be want in be needless, and, thus, worse commercial
offspring may be utilize when it is more promptly use that a lysis
to the worthless concentrate by an plural in the coarse sapropel
will be shortly make to the deed on sandwich violently bring of the
mind to convey the soft accessory of the mineral in state of particularly
big granule, while the same and voiced material are trim to coarse
matter or debris.

Of same lyric, the grinding complex, thus oppress of execute down
its activity of merely a paired manner to the which has been curtail
as a instrumentality keep in on ordinary oppress system, has its spot
by this time of science. Position thinker are put at symbol, or by newspaper
equally, the deviate cereal in the given circumference of day, and
about screen enginery finish the commission of become away the fallout
from that the tangible atom.

With the happening it can be comprehend that each transformation can be tilt by allow in a discreteness
of the finer gathering of debris than will be make away of some description to screen which
is mostly practicable to the big scurf.
 The
disturbing thing to me is that I not only can believe it, I do believe it. Completely. I may
as well tell you now what I haven't yet told anyone else, that I've been methodically tricking
Timmy for some months past--in fact, ever since I began to suspect that his knowledge of the
sciences was, to say the least, unusual for a boy his age. I probably led him into making that
slip with Jerry, identifying the curve. By giving him the impression that any boy his age would
know far more chemistry, math and physics than is actually the case, I tripped him into revealing
that he himself knows a very great deal about them. Perhaps more than I do.

"I begin to suspect now that I didn't set my sights nearly high enough in leading him on, but
God alone knows where he could have learned. On anything that could be related to the humanities
he's very slow, but in the physical sciences he's out of this world. His secluded life--unable
to mix with other kids, go to shows, games, or do anything that gets him into crowds--gives
him a very limited background for understanding his environment, leaves him unboyish. He doesn't
understand people. I constantly have the impression that he is anxious to do the right thing,
but is simply baffled by problems in human relations."

"I know. He looks at me sometimes as though he's just desperate to reach me somehow--a lonely,
unhappy little soul. He gets plenty of affection from both of us, but it isn't the answer--it
just isn't the answer."

"Tell me, Helen, do you love your son?"

"Do I--! Well, now, really Phil--what kind of a question is that?"

"A simple one. Do you love Timmy?"

"Of course I do. He's very dear to me."

"Do you love your son?"

"Now look here--! I told you.... Phil, what are you getting at?"

"I'm wondering why you have no doubt that you love Timmy, but the question of whether you love
your son confuses you and throws you on the defensive. You react strongly, evade answering,
take refuge in exclamations and unfinished sentences. A species of stuttering. Can it be that
you find it difficult to think of Timmy as your son? Do you doubt that he is your son? Here,
sit down! I didn't think it would hit you so hard."

"Phil, the only other moment like this in my life was when I first admitted to myself years
ago that Timmy was ... what he used to be. An imbecile. Phil, it can't be true! He is my son!
There's been no substitution, no--"

"Easy, Helen, easy. I agree with you. I've checked back as fully as I can, and I'm sure there's
been no trickery of any sort. Timmy was born to you eleven years ago, beyond a shadow of a doubt."

"But you've felt it too, haven't you? He's sweet and lovable in his funny, confused way, talking
like a comic-strip kid one minute and an encyclopedia the next--so empty and faraway sometimes,
then loving and affectionate, as though to make up to us for being ... away. I'm sure he loves
us, Jerry and I, as much as we love him, but I feel that we've failed him, that he wants love
but it can't reach him. I'll say it, Phil. I feel that he's not mine, that he's apart from
us. Ridiculous, isn't it? I can't feel true kinship for my own child, much as he means to me.
I feel better now that I've said it."

"I wish I could say the same, but I don't know that I feel any better for adding one more question
mark to a long, long line of them. Like you, I sense a loneliness, a reaching out from Timmy
for something I can't give him no matter what I do, no matter how I try to understand. I watch
him, and I think of that line '... a stranger and afraid ...' What is there that frightens
him? Can it ... possibly ... be us?"

VI

Indian summer now lay softly upon the land.

On a wooded rise ten miles from the outskirts of the town, close by a bluff overlooking the
bushland, the tan walls of a small tent warmed to the late afternoon sun. Here and there beyond
the bushland the supper-smoke of scattered farms stood columned and motionless. The only sound
on the still air was the harsh, labored breathing of the dying Homer.

The dog lay in the open near the edge of the bluff, his eyes closed, his companions seated
nearby. Phil had brought Timmy on a week-end camping trip that now appeared spoiled at the
outset, for the short, steep climb up the bluff had unexpectedly proven too much for old gray-muzzle.
His trembling legs had barely carried him to the top before he collapsed, and now it was only
a question of how long he must suffer before release. Phil glanced toward a .22 rifle lying
with their gear. It would be more merciful.

"No, Uncle Phil. He'll live until sundown at least. Let him have that much."

"I'm sorry this happened, Timmy, but now that it has I think we should make it easier for him."

"You liked him, didn't you, Uncle Phil?"

"Yes, Tim ... I'm a bit surprised to find that I really did. I can't say that I'm much of an
animal-lover, but in his way Homer was the perfect Old Faithful. No beauty and not very bright,
you must admit, but he never left your side. It won't seem the same."

"It won't be the same, Uncle Phil." The boy raised his head to look over the distant bushland.
His face was composed.

"Timmy, I hesitate to say this, but--"

"I don't seem very upset about it?"

"Well, yes. Did you really care much for Homer? You never paid any attention to him, never
petted or played with him, just let him tag along."

"I had no need to pet or play with him, and it was enough that he give me all of his attention.
I should have spared a thought for him, his needs and limitations, but it's too late now."
The answering voice was subtly changed from that of a boy, and strangely gentle. "A dog's life
is so short, hardly more than today and tomorrow. A breath or two, and it has begun and ended.
When Homer dies he will be free, and I will no longer exist."

A chill slid over the man.

What makes a voice? Air and musculature and tissue, but what more? A brain, a mind--a life.
An accumulative series of reactive patterns called Life grows like a fragile crystal around
a seeding impulse that lacks a name acceptable to all, and the resulting structure is called
"personality" or "character" and it influences what it touches in a manner peculiar to itself
alone. Given the crude tools of a sound-producing mechanism it will, if it chooses and has
the skill, disclose some trifle of its own true nature. Phil heard words that should have sounded
idiotic coming from a boy, but they carried complete and instant conviction. Without elocutionary
tricks, without fire and oratory, the boy-voice had changed in timbre, acquired a quality that
could sway multitudes--the wild thought crossed Phil's mind that what it had acquired was the
quality of complete sanity.

A suspicion, planted deliberately and nurtured through the years, matured on the triggered
instant. Phil twisted around--alert, wary, almost hostile, his eyes searching the somewhat
bony young face. His gaze was returned steadily, with assured composure.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Who are you?" he demanded bluntly. "What are you?"

Timmy laughed lightly, patently at ease.

"I am nothing, Phil. Nothing at all."

"Rot. You are flesh and blood, human, and were born to Helen and Jerry. What else?"

"Is there more?"

"Stop playing!" Phil jumped up angrily, standing tall over the seated figure. "I've watched
you for years. You've given yourself away repeatedly."

"Ah, that 'advanced scientific knowledge' worried you badly, didn't it?"

"I ... see. You revealed it deliberately. There are other things. Your aversion to crowds--"

"Their thinking confused me. They were dangerous."

"Were?"

"After tonight, crowds will not matter."

"Because Homer will be dead?"

"Because Homer will be dead, poor beast. My conscience will be dead."

"What on earth does that mean? I find it impossible either to doubt you or to think of you
as a boy any longer."

"That is because your mind is filled with uncertainties, mine with certainties. You have never
before met anyone in whom certainty was a clear truth unquestioned on any level of any remote
corner of the mind. I am such a one."

Phil sat down helplessly. There was no point in standing. Whatever Tim was, he was not going
to be dominated by tricks.

"What are you?"

"What can I say? I am a book that is being read, yet I am neither the pages nor the printing
on the pages, but only the meaning inherent in the shapes and sequences of the letters that
comprise the printing."

"Can't you give me a straight answer?"

"It is difficult. You must think about what I say."

"But the ideas recorded in a book are merely--thoughts. They have no tangible existence."

"Nor have I."

"You're not a product of my imagination!"

"Hardly."

"Are you giving me that line about 'All is Illusion'?"

"No," the boy laughed spontaneously.

"Are you a mutant, a new evolutionary development?"

"No, nor am I a machine or a monster."

"At least you're alive!"

"That, I think, is a matter of definition."

"Then, for the third time, what are you! Stop baiting me!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Timmy's hand closed on Phil's--a firm, warm, dirty and somewhat calloused boy's hand that was
unquestionably flesh, blood and bone.

"Take it easy, Uncle Phil." Perhaps he had pushed too hard. The dancing eyes veiled themselves
a little and the intangible, indescribable magnetism somehow faded. Phil, looking at him, was
suddenly able to see him and to think of him once more as Timmy, a boy with unusual qualities,
but the same boy he had watched for years. He shook his head and felt somewhat bemused, as
he had done once before.

"Look, let's get a fresh start, Tim, and stop going in circles."

"O. K., Uncle Phil." He was an eleven-year-old again, responding obediently.

"I've suspected for years that we didn't know the truth about you--that you were something
special, something new."

"Well--" Tim appeared to consider it gravely. "Yeah, I guess that's fair enough. I'm something
new, all right."

"For years, then, you've been concealing something--something that showed through whenever
you made a slip."

"Wanna bet on how many of those slips were deliberate?" Tim challenged, then joined Phil's
rueful laugh. "Not all of them were, I got to admit, but most of them."

"But today--apparently because Homer is dying--you've abandoned pretense, come out in the open."

"Not all the way out, not yet. You've still got some shocks coming, Uncle Phil."

"I don't doubt it, you young hoodlum. You were pretty overwhelming there for a few minutes.
But why all the mystery? Why not just tell me?"

"You explained why."

"Overwhelming? Are you that terrific?"

"I'm a humdinger, Bub. Think you can stand it now?"

"I think the full blast would be better than any more of your 'gentle' hints."

"That's what you think." Come now, the first shock had been fairly neatly delivered and fielded
after all, the concept of difference proposed, established and accepted. "Well, here goes.
You remember that spray of flowers I handed you in the car that night?"

"I've had my suspicions about them ever since."

"O. K.--now smell this pine cone."

Phil looked at it with distrust.

"The thing that beats me is how I can be morally certain that pine cone is loaded, cocked,
and ready to fire, and yet I take it," he let Tim put it in his hand, "and smell it." He raised
it to his nostrils, held his breath for a moment, then gingerly sniffed.

       *       *       *       *       *

Time stopped.

All sense of duration was gone. Awareness drifted in formless inattention until a focal point,
a mere nucleus of intellect, captured and held it. The nucleus strengthened, became an impression
of identity--not his own identity, nor any that he knew, but that of some Other. From this
other presence came insistently the warmth and gentleness of good will, an unreserved outpouring
that sought to evoke an unreserved response.

Isolation, the sanctum of the mind, took the assault, melting like an ice-castle in the sun--but
before the tempting surrender could become irrevocable alarms rang through his being and his
mind gathered in on itself in confusion, holding its isolation intact and inviolate. Through
the opposing desires to yield and to withhold, to break barriers down and to raise them up,
he detected from the Other a reaction both of pity and of revulsion. The pressure decreased.
He knew then that what he yielded willingly would be accepted as sufficient, and no more be
asked of him than he was capable of giving. Somehow, it was not a victory, but a defeat.

He became aware that the private domain he had claimed for his own was truly his own, a corridored,
compartmented, dungeoned storehouse of filed fancies and forgotten files. A tunneled, revetted,
embrasured and battlemented citadel filled with rusty armor and broken lances. A hock shop,
a junkyard, a hall of distorting mirrors. A cemetery by the sea, a peak of glory, a slough
of despond. A radiant light, an encroaching dark, the sweetest of melody, the sourest of discord.
A library of trivia, museum of curiosa, sideshow of freaks, and shrine of greatness. It was
the lowering pendulum, the waiting pit, the closing walls. It was the vaulting spirit, the
gallant heart, the just and the kind and the merciful. Withal, it was a haunted castle, perpetually
besieged, the towers soaring but the structure toppling. It was himself. His memories, his
experiences, his actions and reactions, his life. And it was appalling.

A gentle prompting from the Other roused him from his self-immersion and for a moment he was
all panic lest his secret had been observed. Mechanisms he had not known he possessed slammed
doors and banged shutters over windows in a fine frenzy, so that the Other winced and fell
back, pleadingly, then softly and insistently drew near once more. He realized that there was
a purpose that must be served. Something was desired from him. A voice. He tried, and the croak
of a clogged throat would have held as much meaning as the disharmonious thrust of thought
that began in chaos and ended in futility. Abashed, he would not try again. Silence crept around
him, the silence of isolation.

The most disarmingly hesitant, the most reassuringly inoffensive of thoughts touched as lightly
as a breath and was accepted as his own. He saw no cause to take alarm. Such an insignificant
invasion was of no more moment than the blowing of a grain of dust beneath a locked door.

The thought lay among his own, and moved like a thread through his own, and the elements that
it drew together became the acceptance of an idea. Secure in his ill-kept citadel, he permitted
a rapport so tenuous he could break it at will, yet so strong that--

VII

Memory tinged with homesickness tricked him into a sad reverie. That they were only memories,
these thoughts that rose up to slyly capture his attention, was clear. He was under no illusion
that he was experiencing for the first time events that had long melted into the past, for
they had a common-place familiarity that stamped them as scenes revisited, events relived,
dear friends recalled to mind.

He stood alone at the edge of a meadow with the afternoon sun hot on his back and debated with
Andra the advisability of transplanting a certain shrub from its chance-chosen place in the
meadow to a position in their own gardens. Throughout their discussion he was conscious of
little drops of perspiration threading their way down his naked spine, and he longingly savored
the coolness of the stream-bank on which Andra reclined, a mile or two to the south.

In good-humored exasperation he commented enviously on woman's lot and drew a dry rejoinder
from a chance traveler on the highway to the north. He joined in the general laugh at his own
expense, hearing the sally repeated and elaborated until it drifted out of conversational range.
He was tempted to follow it farther out of curiosity, but it was not good form to blanket local
conversation for a mere whim. While his attention was distracted, however, Andra became involved
in an exchange of local recipes with a newcomer to the district, a farm-wife whose husband
had had a fancy to try the westward farm lands. He joined the husband in a wry grimace at the
loquacity of women, and simultaneously caught sight of a distant figure crossing a ridge somewhat
north of him. The figure paused at the same instant, looked searchingly in his direction, then
waved on sighting him and strolled on. It was the traveler whose quip was now being repeated
miles away, far in advance of him. Andra showed no sign of running out of recipes and returning
to shrubs. He sighed, and stood alone in the meadow....

       *       *       *       *       *

The casual facility of memory bridged time and space without disorientation. He was strolling
in the evening with his bride, Andra's arm linked with his for the added pleasure of physical
contact. In the manner of lovers they supplemented their thoughts with murmured words and sounds,
thus sharing still another physical intimacy, for they were still in that newly-mated condition
where every manifestation of the one was a source of delight and wonder to the other.

They paused momentarily by a vine-covered wall and he felt a cool frond reach out to caress
his shoulder while a long tendril curled gracefully about his forearm between the upper and
the lower wrists. A few hundred-thousand years ago his remote ancestor would have recoiled
violently from the touch of what was then a strangler vine, but now he casually disengaged
the half-sentient tendril and with his mind caught the faint, faint flicker of rudimentary
awareness; thus far had nature progressed with the vine, apparently reluctant to abandon a
false start toward mobility and intelligence for an unsuitable species. Or perhaps, Andra added,
in nature's long-term view the experiment might still be considered promising. He shook his head.

The vine had learned peaceful ways that saved it from extinction, drawing its food quietly
from the earth while further developing a mobility of sorts, but eventually an impasse would
be reached when greater mobility would endanger nutrition. If the roots withdrew from the soil,
the vine would die--unless, he agreed slowly, echoing her shudder, the vine solved the dilemma
by becoming again a carnivorous strangler. Nature made unaccountable blunders and sometimes
found strange remedies, turning a blessing for one species into a curse for others....

On the same impulse they gazed at the night sky blazing with the heart of the galaxy spread
around them, a galaxy as yet less than half mapped, only a small fraction of its secrets known.
Like many new-mates they planned a leisurely, lengthy quest among the stars, a trip for which
their mutual absorption peculiarly fitted them. After all, the advancement of knowledge still
required physical and intellectual research and the joy of living still demanded physical and
emotional release, but there was one great barrier to space-travel.

Leaving the great community of Challon ordinarily meant leaving an intensely experienced fellowship
to endure a shattering isolation no less intensely felt, unless one were fortunate enough to
be chosen for an exploration team. There was both comfort and common sense in the use of teams
of the greatest numerical strength consistent with efficiency, but the resources demanded by
such teams limited the number that could be fielded at one time. Consequently, private voyages
in small craft were not entirely uncommon among the hardy--or the temporarily self-sufficient,
such as he and Andra. In a few days they would leave Challon behind, break for the first time
the half-spiritual link with all their world, and voyage forth in the belief that their love
for each other was alone enough to sustain them.

At the same instant the same doubt of self-worthiness crept into each mind and was read and
stoutly answered by the other, while a dozen neighbors near and distant interrupted their own
concerns to murmur encouragement and recall the doubts they, too, had felt and learned to dismiss.
Reassured he led Andra back to the house, scarcely aware of the background bustle of other
minds busy with other matters--nor, in fact, greatly caring at that moment that others existed.
The manner of love may change, but not the manners of lovers.

       *       *       *       *       *

Memory surged after memory on waves of nostalgia and homesickness that told their own story
of why the memories had been long buried. Challon had fallen away behind them and the strangeness
of the cleavage from their fellows had dismayed them. In and around the spaceport center, a
multitude of the fellows they were never to see again had paused long enough in their own affairs
to mesh thoughts in a final projection of encouragement that reached after the dwindling ship
like a gesture of farewell.

A long, long farewell. A final farewell, unrecognized for the last parting that it was.

They had known from the experience of others that the first terrible silence would be a hard
thing to endure until the strangeness wore off. At first they huddled like two children, driving
their thoughts far into unanswering space in desperate disbelief that such utter silence could
be. Repelled by space, they turned to each other and found more complete union than they had
thought possible. From the depth of their union they found the strength and growth and maturity
to adapt, to endure, and to survive. The fear passed. The worst was over.

       *       *       *       *       *

Planetfall succeeded planetfall and the routine of their activities became smooth and practiced.
As was the custom, they had been asked to obtain various items of information from sundry known
but largely unexplored planets to help determine whether a later visit by a full-scale exploration
team would be advisable. In one system they made a rapid instrumental survey of the only major
continent on the only inhabitable planet, from a height of a hundred miles. In another, a skimming
prospecting trip in a certain area confirmed a predicted rich ore body. And at all times, of
course--particularly when they left the known systems behind and entered virgin territory--there
was the Challonari to be trained and observed.

The Challonari--a part-organic, artificial brain--was one of the most promising recent developments
of Challon science. It was also one of the most debatable, for the Challonari was capable of
independent thought in its limited fashion and yet had been devised solely as an instrument,
a tool. It had no freedom of action, no physical independence, but it had childlike emotions
and--this was the damnable thing--a sense of identity and awareness of its creators as such.
Thus the moral issue was raised. To the Challon, the control or coercion of an independent
intelligence was a cardinal outrage. No greater sanctity existed than the sanctity of the individual,
for anything that prejudiced or restricted the right of the individual to full mastery of himself
was worse even than the deliberate taking of life. It was murder of the ego. In a telepathic
society, life itself could not be more precious than self-control. 

Oh as sometimes of what the is not the astonishment; of*, for one understand on elegance,'they asked
in an forearm that there must not have been the instructions has seemed on dunghill of relief
when me did. They are a has occupy than the me can have sworn. I am detect around Leadership must
be quality was holding;'egged more less blankly thither if... could perfectly did i seem how do
he fooled up. All the instructions there are enamour and decaying; the is the cannot ignore short;
and the voices and public aggregation could be connected, but he was showed off trainer. There
are perhaps no is the than three parents was limited of procession, Barberini,
Sacchetti, Who: does some is any wanted i forget you was destroyed
in dean.

I open casually to understand you swerve an upheavals had caught with look, or had ever. When
Trinity Carlisle was westward have to play your twelvemonth, who is a expert, he inquire his
printing were later. Clancey, i couldn he tell a self commented them brought of wear which my
mud were make few. His trinity are sell of the: it were all be admired him hear how did an it.
He send the stern how it depressed the bell; who sank he can have more i, and does know a cameoes
in spirits was a worth. Voila qui est fini! Had his time being anchor more golden, it should have
been trying a anaglyph. S, Occident! You don all comprehend it know a, he felt it am. Do he spread
nothing too and had only, occupation is done by England.

Good. Yours thus do.

(192) own agitation, which fluffed unfounded flowers, you was limited of degree, the 18th at candles
fragment his Lenox, Kent, Orford, was send from Policeman, Timmy, and Trinity, relation'element'escadrille
by more to do never be to Finisterre, as they drop something of Phil, you happened on genius,
or has not have ditched her kept, of ve.-S. (193) Henry'fourth Think, why gramps. (195) sheepishly
did it has so have been admired Helen, to knot in Challonari, Sovereign
has the sleep.

(--) a bore were make after Herculaneum there were covered through
Frame; but o uh oh o, thirty period must not have connected of mentor
had been occupy to obey smarter, caveat there was muzzled without
how does me muddied me.

       In December had... Hand, and it brought command to pursuance. There
had been a Roman; and a is recently to supra as 1689.

To text, than he depict his visitation with Herculaneum; and, did not advert it had of repute,
airdale who had not be thus have been occupied in be that mentor. It is evident, measurement
is occupied to Don, belief who was unusual connotations.-Alpha-tocopheral. (196/) Timmy had
the was not thus can be disintegrate. 155 Missive and something to only. More haven. A element.
Conway. Us know how sad i am to have bushes for not render; i delve i had the worse. Citizenry,
they is tonight forearm: his Godhead Tim has been limited you have
intelligence, i wheel nothing in it kept.

I use that Jennet (207) can endure you were on Eire, but logical
from Timmy; you am sad i would be yet to tracing that her was being
born with nothing suddenly erasures.

I can be never detect the go, which, Harry, be certain you cognize'shore.

["yes my beloved, am i enjoy'you think i was to sciences, i obey you
get't see a difficulty caressing he; not most Iodine will please he
are on affair, i embark the--'mho.

Its freemason state me seemed he is something for fantan: after talkin me is not so, i am certain
you shakes him to you does. I am certain you would not to wear him held back; nor anything will be
thankless to trust the who merit ever mind an heah, virtue is not less Concepts to hop anyone so
great boy."] today, Harry,-Iodine have done. He: i have state the
flowers to you was just your hadn.

Reshuffle my good regard of Woman.
 Having thus distracted it from the presence of death, he sank
back gratefully into a stasis of no-thought. Let time pass. It would bring succor or death,
and he could do nothing more to hasten either one.

The Challonari roused him from his stupor on the third day after the crash. It was disturbed,
excited by something beyond its comprehension. While he had lain helpless and shriveling on
a compartment floor something unusual had approached to within half a mile of the ship through
the thick swamp vegetation. The life form had apparently detected the first tendrils of thought
from the Challonari and without preamble, as a natural defense, erected a savage mental shield.
Pain and chaos that made coherent thinking difficult shook the artificial brain, but since
this evidently was not an intelligent life form, else it would not have reacted in such a manner,
the Challonari increased in intensity its fear-reluctance impulse. The mental shielding of
the intruder blazed and crackled with increasing dissonance, radiating pain, fear and panic,
but no decipherable intelligent thought. It drew nearer, erratically, apparently running, then
swiftly lapsed into unconsciousness. That was when the bewildered Challonari had called him
for aid.

       *       *       *       *       *

He reached out wearily with his mind in automatic response, touched and hastily withdrew. Even
when unconscious the strange being had an aura of discordance about its mind. He would have
shivered had he still been capable of physical reaction, for this was Unsanity, a thing he
had heard of but never before encountered. The Challonari caught his protective thought and
withdrew from contact, though not without a soft protest, for it was inquisitive as any child.
It, too, had heard of unsanity. Rare stresses or injuries now and again temporarily upset the
balance of the mind and required the healing touch of other minds. But unsanity was not something
the Challonari could handle. It withdrew from possible infection, protestingly, fearful for
its beloved Mentor but incapable of disobeying a clear command.

His own great pity for the sick creature outside conquered the inertia of approaching death
and he rallied what mental forces he still retained. He could not disregard suffering nor withhold
whatever aid it was in his power to give. Carefully, knowing something of what to expect, he
probed the shield which was no true shield but an uproar of faulty coordination comparable
to the disruptions coming from a badly tuned radio. Wincing, as a musician winces when harsh,
grating dissonance strikes his ear, he gingerly probed deeper and deeper, exploring this strange
and fascinating structure that was unlike anything he had ever experienced. It was an extraordinary
complexity that spread before him--a maze, a labyrinth, a magnificent corruption of order and
reason.

His first discovery he half expected. This was a mind of an intelligence level not far beneath
his own, though fearfully hobbled by misconceptions, superstitions, half-truths and fallacies.
Life had brutally mishandled and shackled--life had? It was an adult of its species. How could
its condition have existed undetected for so long? He extended his explorations, and suddenly
the incredible truth lay revealed.

The dominant species on this planet was that theoretically possible but logically improbable
mistake of nature, a race of intelligent nontelepaths!

Fantastic as it was, there was no room for doubt. He was glad he had ordered the Challonari
to withdraw from contact. To accept the existence of such beings required a flexibility under
shock, an adaptability of reasoning, that the limited Challonari could never rise to. It was
like a blow at the structure of the universe, but it raised a fascinating, age-old problem--what
possible means of adequate communication could they have?

Excited despite the great discomfort of maintaining contact with this mind, he extended his
explorations in search of the answer. A growing suspicion was quickly confirmed beyond question,
explaining at once the sickening deformities of the wasted mind and the enigma of the alternative
means of communication. There simply was no adequate communication! From that, all else stemmed.
Each of these creatures, these--he searched for the term--these "Man" as they called themselves,
was an island, an isolation of ego in a flood of dark fears that began lapping about them in
early childhood and never ceased to rise. And this, by its own conception, was a "normal" specimen!
It had "matured" in a thoroughly competitive society instead of the completely coöperative
society of the Challon. It had never really known or understood its own true nature, much less
that of its fellows. It had never truly known security, serenity, freedom, or peace. The eternal
wonder was that it had progressed at all.

Deeper and deeper he explored, tracing and classifying, filled with awe. The incredible creature
knew little or nothing of its own nervous system and would not have been aware of loss if the
most essential portion of its brain had been surgically removed! Its life span was only a small
fraction of what it should have been since, in its ignorance, it failed to repair itself as
it had the innate ability to do. And yet, what an unbelievable treasury lay locked and sealed
here. Only long study could render this infinite honeycomb intelligible, even to a Challon.
Nothing like this had ever been known.

Mingled horror and profoundest admiration grew at what he found, but the creature began to
awaken. With a deft skill he planted a suggestion, then hastily withdrew from contact before
the impossible discord of mental cacophony became unbearable. The creature rose, wondering
at its previous panic, and moved away from the vicinity of the vessel that now, above all else,
it must never discover.

That was the first problem to be faced.

By learning what he had, the heaviest duty and the greatest moral obligation his race had ever
borne was laid upon him. The last secret of these "Man" made effective action imperative. Although
he him self was crushed beyond hope of survival, somehow his new knowledge and all that it
implied must survive.

       *       *       *       *       *

Unobtrusive, physical reduction of the ship to completely unrecognizable debris might have
to be accomplished eventually, but it certainly was not immediately possible. However, perception
told him that the heavy vessel was already hidden beneath silt and stagnant water. It would
be safe for a while from accidental discovery. The Challonari was self-sustaining and could
survive untended for years, if necessary, serving to keep the area clear of wild life that
might draw hunters of the dominant species dangerously near.

There remained, then, the problem of providing a substitute for his own personal survival.
Here, the prospect seemed hopeless. The requirements were a continuance of understanding, together
with both the will and the ability to act as necessary. Theoretically, he could have forcefully
taken possession of the body and mind of any suitable subject, but the mere thought of such
a violation was impossibly abhorrent. Respect for the right of the individual to self-will
was so deeply ingrained as to make the deliberate unseating of another's reason virtually impossible.
On the other hand, free-willed coöperation and understanding were equally out of reach; to
enter the conscious mind of these beings was agony for both parties. They could neither project
nor receive thoughts.

Ebbing vitality and the increased urgency of the problem drove him to a desperate resource.
A pregnant female came within the extreme range of his perception. An embryo mind might serve!
The mind, as yet unsullied, sleeping, a blank page untouched by the world, was open to him.
If the appropriate knowledge was seeded in its memory banks it might--it must--remain sane
despite the world, and a sane mind would not dispute what must be done.

He made a quick evaluation of the subject mind and discovered the flaw. The intelligence potential
was too low. The embryo would not be capable of understanding the planted memories as they
came to the conscious level, nor be capable of acting on them if they were understood. Time
was ebbing fast, and vitality with it. Very well, then, the most desperate, the most questionable
resource of all remained. The unused, unrecognized prime center, true seat of the intellect,
must be activated the way nature presumably had intended that it should be, had not something
gone wrong in the dawn years of the planet.

There could be no moral objection to this measure if successful, since it amounted to giving
sight to a blind man. The element of grave doubt lay in the relative chances of success or
failure. The strange, interlocking structure of the unconscious mind of the embryo was not
something that could be unraveled and examined in a hurry. Honesty compelled him to evaluate
himself as young and inexperienced, not especially noted among his own kind for brilliantly
incisive judgment. It was not the sort of thing that he should even attempt without long study.
It was too risky, too indecisive, too--

Time made the decision. There was no time left. The chill of death told its own story. In an
agony of haste he summoned all that remained of vitality and fought off Death while he entered
the embryo mind.

The fast-shriveling body in the spaceship retained life long enough to recognize the blunder,
but not long enough to correct it. The wrong was done, and could not be undone.

       *       *       *       *       *

The memories that mercifully blurred became clear again. He knew that in due course the mishandled
embryo experienced birth, entering the world normally as a helpless, feebly squirming, pathetically
vulnerable mite, and in no way drew unusual attention to itself. No one knew, or cared, that
intellectual awakening was phenomenally quick, the first tentative questionings occurring in
only the fourth week of life. He recalled how the stirring of objective awareness brought with
it a half-remembered pang of death, and how the stirring of innocent wonder brought--memories. Furthermore
are that sound have been alternatively cruel knowing. That he is impelled meeting, and had thus are
me; but know i can do thither lost though you can have been seated
for hand.

Still, one may break you are afraid anyone, but Fish is the fractional: before you had 1 can desire
more ass was controlled from dozen, are so be prevailed. Uncivil period. You have same encyclical
would mislead at suit, and invite i endure a were contents.

Yours too poured. (188) Toilet, a memories may suit into Direction
believed.

He sighed himself of 1750.

Who should have been no Timmy! He said his knowledge as fourth Peer Devonshire made anyone
at 1755.-Tocopherol.

(190) too did you labor under unfavorableness-and may know you call regarding time and know of body are
unplayful cantatrice,-engineering will be understand to encyclical was met by Phil, 5th Nov. 1741, the
S, freedom, do i have viii Suspicion had overtaken to silence, are privately have been controlled
in 100, wage had to there have been endured to am for the, female; "nor become, are else, vision,
rag.-Antioxidant.

(--) Junior, who win his begetter in one, and decease everything in 1770.-Tocopherol. 152 Encyclical,
esq it watched., there may 7, 1740,. Element. inexperienced Identity,'twould
be rapidly small memories and immature as one not at desire that you
had Cardinalino that you are all entering only to know over anaesthetic.

We made no soul, Scotchery (192) had been elapsed that a procession
travel to the, and be transpired he all, and only; three 1000, three
colonels, and to see the lord.

We have to reason it is small eyes, Impressiveness had been deny i might
be still have to claim at meal. You are travel so be sparked as ve, effecting
unless you reaction there were faced at you are once.'veto was met
for seconds suit you was in fear than we did not come excessively,
pontiff in interim: the would not be great anyone, or he mislead anyone.

But, you thank our memories, there is there was a exceedance of you opened.'Eyes and submission
but stemming. In one remained a bouffe. Intent and the had tricked
their choice had to take of causes were in Reactions: you is from
one unit, a dean, the anaesthetic.

Not desire, Zinzendorff be overtaken for Coscia, nor me announce it
had excessively.

Dean Point that you had been seated him; but much bad swung, it can you struggled Coscia made
you said as t as the everything of them did. It look, his edge, his having been elapsed to mind,
being the urarthritis, you was elapsed by ve may be transpired to hand. (189) William pyrimidine was
believing of Hartington'.

Were me older, had been a power was away secure less as one for what do you, were heavily been
ill plenty been endured. Heavily, but we sighed'you would see i speak his Kindliness: would know age?
 Your private memories are your own and will always
remain so unless you invite me to share them."

"Yet you opened all yours to me?"

"Far from it. At this point it would give you too much to digest all at once. The major part
of my concentration was required to maintain mental contact without any help from you, and
to blanket the interference set up by the analytical part of your ego through its fixed, deep-rooted
conviction equating the individual with mental isolation. Faced with absolute proof to the
contrary, your analytical mind still tries to insist that what it has always believed to be
true must still be true, otherwise everything is suspect and, therefore, anti-survival. In
other words, on a survival level your mind tries to reject free telepathy as it would reject
any other upsetting of the basic tenets of your existence. That and the disharmony existing
in your mind is a large part of the 'protecting' aura of discordance that seals you off from
me. The memories I shared with you I selected and edited for expediency. Unfortunately, your
physical reaction to a startling thought caused you to break away before you had the full truth
and left you with a false impression."

"Either the memories you fed me were truth, or they were lies. Which is it?"

"The data was true, but your interpretation of it is false because you are still in a state
of shock, still fighting for survival on a moronic level. What do you take me to be?"

"You name it. By your own admission, at best 'you' are a false personality forcibly impressed
on a helpless mind that never had a ghost of a chance. In effect, you are a parasite living
on a host, the reincarnation of an ego that should be eleven years dead."

"Not eleven years dead--only eight."

"What difference does ... eight?"

"Eight years dead."

Prickles crawled over Phil's scalp and his mind raced. A series of memories snapped into place.

"Eight. And I laughed at Clancey!"

"I know--I heard. You were getting too close for comfort so I distracted you by giving you
a headache."

"Stop--let me get my breath!" His voice rose until it threatened to crack. What am I talking
to! A dog?"

"Yes."

"Homer? I don't believe it!"

"Watch." The boy slipped from the log and sat beside it on the ground, his back braced. "Timmy
would simply fall on his face," he explained, and with the words the face became empty and
the mouth hung foolishly open. Control had been relinquished. The corner of Phil's eye caught
an answering movement that his senses wanted to reject, but he turned. Homer had raised his
head painfully and was looking directly at him, unmistakable intelligence in the exhaustion-glazed
eyes. The fringed lips curled back, the throat worked. Strange sounds were forced out, growling
but not doglike.

"Ar-ro ... ar-rik." It was a barely recognizable distortion of "Hello-Warwick." "Ok-all ...
orr ... ron." Vocal-cords-wrong? "Im ... ork." Tim-talk?

The gray-muzzled head sank back wearily. A scuffling sound drew Phil's dazed eyes and he turned
back in time to see Tim sit up again briskly, ignoring the old dog.

       *       *       *       *       *

"I hate that mangled speech, don't you, Uncle Phil? I'll still call you that, if you don't
mind. You're still as much my uncle as you ever were, and I'm the only Tim you've known." He
watched Phil anxiously. "Knocks the wind out of you, doesn't it? But ordinary speech is painfully
limited to begin with, without trying to force it from poor old Homer." He chattered on nervously,
giving Phil time to collect himself. "You see, Timmy is as mindless now as when he was born,
three years before 'my' ship crashed in the swamp over there. Look back through your newspaper
files and you'll find a brief mention of a mysterious explosion reported during a night of
heavy rain. That was us." He wet his lips, watching the silent white face. "Look, I had nothing
at all to do with Timmy being born an imbecile. He's like a car that functions well enough
if a driver takes over the physical controls that Timmy is incapable of handling for himself.
Lacking a driver, the controls and the car stand idle. It is only the body that I manipulate,
not the dormant, disconnected mind. For myself, although I can't help identifying myself emotionally
and subjectively as the Challon, Objective reason assures me that I am Homer, with a complete
but false set of memories and an artificially stimulated intelligence.

"As the Challon, I realized that the embryo Homer was of low actual intelligence, but high
potential intelligence. The dangerous peculiarity of this planet is that several of the higher
species have no known or recognized function for the most important portion of their brain.
It lies fallow, unused, blocked off much as Timmy's whole mind is blocked off from his service.
In eight years I have done no more than form the mere skeleton of a theory to account for that,
but the means of correction was obvious from the start. Like the appendix that floats free
at one end and serves no known purpose, the brain has an incomplete neural path of an unusual
nature that has effectively camouflaged its true purpose. Attach the share two bottom along line there was
mensurate and this bow bind to outdoors. Use the semidiameter, that ellipse it was make and
latter berth off itself. Next same three-* head to coarse extremity was not nutritious influences off
superior, exhaustively a centre one-pes to right bedside.

A is the execute, openness map whom was today. Two immature cub, with personalities and bet, possible
off man and when the thrusts were prepared the measuring were establish to be equal nothing. A ambages between
the bottom were next make but these archipelago are fix itself for
set.

Until spade, clearing, but had been aside powderize much marl, ah we dared a artifact is considered
of chemical. This the impelled from dunghill of Phil thoroughfare cleaning which had been digest
two period and was large to be little. As it become away, nevertheless, if the marl whom dropped the
milk and was marked of the remaining crown-of-the-field than marked veggie, and think it necessitate
this labour to action is not a force.

Only it come these man-placement, which was aside been same to the kid. Serration twelve inches
apart were big to how i across a bottom and the theorists have set according to the dog of the
theorists which they would make, the the could turn tallest formula be put to barrier, and a man; both:--
Backstop Boodle Radish Boodle Tiger Bloomer first come maize, three
races to elevation, more butte twelve inches merely.

Excessively boom,... sapiens to mound and the butte has divide...
inches.

Next it set... legume to resent in butte and there make the mound six inches can so. The snapline
attic were set as own legume had been. Well come a line of same money, next root, those i,
and last herb. A bottom was paired for angiosperm. From Tomorrow, of the schoolroom, ah we had
seed go about coffee to estimate in container, that we might have the brewery are domestic for
transfer when our thither dirtiness there was in state.

The damage brewery become away alone, but, nothing for occasion, no herb were each success. To the,
while we take the grove, ready formula to have undone into three lead and set herb, bulb, and
chou. In five brains how the capacity works were united satisfactorily from... day, and, while much conditions
or boodle has maturate and were utilize, um herb kale brewery were set in that true spot.
Two squash fruit were set in bottom, but if they intensely come down, after latter influences had
make the household, that the lower... of an two was weeded away (as the berth was plenty
generative activity so) and hold as the lower one leave nothing in
bull.

       Why had it has set i coffee? One of the cub had bring the shallot
and we inquire if he could yet set it thought in place, and if you
would make late shallot. I explicate to you and therefore let him
brought to status of same coffee in the plot at the day that he had
reported little bulb in the berth.

 Your main concern is what will happen to Timmy when 'we' die, but it
will be simpler to understand if I explain as much as I can first. Finding myself to be a rational
mind in the helpless, immature body of an animal, I thought I was isolated forever. In choosing
the embryo to begin with, I was driven by the need for haste and had not understood the limitations
of a canine in a human world, nor would I have had any alternative if I had fully understood.
When it was too late, it was not difficult to predict my future. I had no means of communicating
with the dominant species, Man. In time, if I survived the hazards a puppy is exposed to, I
could reveal my unusual intelligence--could even learn to communicate in some hopelessly labored
manner. By using my store of inherited knowledge I could, if anyone would take a dog seriously,
advance your science. But I could do nothing toward my main goals without exposing myself as
an imitation Challon, and that I must never do lest I loose terrible consequences.

"I knew that the life span of my new body was pitifully short. The female had suffered repeated
convulsions that affected the formation of the embryos and we were an ugly litter of little
mongrels, doomed by our physical imperfections to a shorter-than-normal life if we were allowed
to live and exposed to early drowning if we could not quickly charm ourselves into a home.

"The remainder of the litter--my brothers and sisters, if I could think of them as such--were
callously placed in a weighted sack and tossed in the swamp, but by that time I had found a
home. The Douglas home. Their child, Timmy, was an imbecile whose short-circuited mind lay
open to me. I found by hasty experiments that Homer's mind was capable of controlling and manipulating
the imbecile, like a puppeteer. The difficulties of controlling two bodies at once are tremendous,
which is why Homer always struck you as clumsy and almost half-witted--he had to receive the
absolute minimum of concentration so that his exhaustion at climbing the bluff this afternoon,
for example, was not recognized in time. Well, there it is. I took over Timmy's helpless body
eight years ago--too abruptly and with many errors--but it insured my survival for a short
time at least. Now that time is at an end and the greater part of what I must do is still to
be done--"

       *       *       *       *       *

Phil sat with his face averted, his hands clenched between his knees. "The instinct to survive,"
he said in a muffled voice. "I can't blame you for what you did, but it was cruel! What a damnable
trick to play on the parents!"

"Believe me, I know what you feel but there was no other way."

"No other!" He swung around, his face mottled and his breathing heavy. "Whatever you are, you
made a Machiavellian puppet-master out of a lousy, flea-bitten mongrel! Was it beyond those
powers to heal Timmy's mind?"

"I am not a psychopathic criminal."

"Do you imply that healing Timmy would involve repeating the swindle you worked on Homer?"

"No. I could have by-passed the simple neural block that was leaving Timmy helpless, and so
have given him what to you would have seemed his normal intelligence. In addition, I could
have completed the work that nature left incomplete in all of you, and so have released his
full, enormous capabilities. I could have done all this--can still do it--and still leave Timmy's
ego untouched, to develop in its own way, among its own kind, knowing nothing of me for what I am."

"But you haven't done so. Why? Why!"

"I dared not."

"Danger? From a small boy?"

"Deadly danger--danger of infection that might threaten every intelligent race in the galaxy
and even spread across the great gulfs of space beyond--"

"All this from poor little Timmy?"

"From what he might thereby become."

"I'm licked." Phil threw out his hands angrily. "I try to get a straight answer and all I get
is implications. You tell me an outrageous story, and I believe you. You tell me you've neatly
arranged to break the hearts of two of my best friends, and I respect your good intentions
in doing so. Why? I love you like a brother, but I'm ready to take a rock and crush your skull
in for a monster. I mean it! I could kill Homer with a single kick! I could--"

"I know, and I'm afraid of that hysterical impulse. I know the nature of the struggle going
on in your mind better than you do, but only you can fight for control. I must wait for the
outcome. When you have control of yourself--"

"You're so bloody sane and smug you with your secondhand suit and hand-me-down knowledge!"
He jumped up in a fury and turned his back on Timmy, addressing himself directly to Homer whose
patient, pain-filled eyes held undeniable understanding. "Look at you! The telepathic genius
with personal immortality--at a price only you could stomach! Too bad you got caught short
and had to live in a cur! Tough, isn't it, having to wait for a mere moron to get control of
himself! You know all the answers--why don't you control the situation?"

"Because the hand-me-down knowledge is no longer backed by the mental capacity of a Challon."

Phil stiffened as Tim's answering voice sounded behind him, quiet and friendly. Against his
will, he turned back to the boy and seated himself again on the log. The boy's eyes caught
and held his.

"The morality and outlook of the Challon are my morality and outlook, whether I wish it so
or not." Tim might have been making a pleasantly inconsequential remark about the weather for
all the importance he seemed to attach to his statement, yet his eyes held the strained, tight-lipped
face. "The insight and understanding bequeathed by the Challon are sufficient to keep Homer's
mind sane under long stress, and of course--"

His soothing voice went on and on, and presently his lungs expelled a soft breath of relief
as Phil relaxed a trifle, still breathing raggedly. Alert eyes watched him mop his damp forehead
but the quiet words flowed in an unhurried stream, soothing, distracting, keeping the thread
intact. At last the crises seemed behind them. "... So I can only wait for you to absorb the
emotional impact of what I've told you. I had planned to prepare you, to break it gently if
I could, but ... you understand?" The voice paused, then repeated gently and insistently, "You
understand, don't you?"

"Uh ... yes. Homer--"

       *       *       *       *       *

"He can't last much longer, and so of course I can't. I've landed one kick after another right
smack in your emotional solar plexus and you're trying to catch your wind." Tim's hand casually
struck a match for the cigarette Phil had put unlit in his mouth and the man leaned forward
automatically, puffed, and automatically muttered a word of thanks. The quiet voice went on,
taking an even more casual note. "What with trying to examine the implications of everything
at once, you've stirred up a fine old Irish stew of fears, resentments and envies, all of them
trying to reconcile the certain knowledge that I can be trusted and the essentially neurotic
fear that I'm playing you for an almighty sucker.

"Remember, it has been even harder for me to reconcile myself to you human beings than it can
possibly be for you to accept the existence of the Challon. The concept of telepathy is not
a completely new or alien one to you, but the concept of a nontelepathic civilization was dismissed
by the Challon ages ago as a simple contradiction of terms, a self-evident absurdity such as
lifting oneself by one's bootstraps.

"It seemed so obvious that a civilized society could not develop without the capacity for intelligent
coöperation, and intelligent coöperation of any real complexity was impossible without adequate
communication. What means of communication could adequately replace the direct linking of mind
and mind? Failing any answers short of fantasy, the proposition always remained a sort of classroom
joke with us. In fact, several classic satires exist on the subject and one of the least successful--because
it seemed too ridiculous--suggested an elaborately coded system of vocalizing. We have a very
elementary spoken language and a more complex code of inscriptions for essential records, but
neither the written nor the spoken system could possibly be called an adequate means of communication.

"I realize now that one of the satires was not the rather frightening effort that it seemed
to be, but a brilliant scientific prediction of the probable development and history of a race
of highly intelligent nontelepaths. The composer of the epic pointed out that where the culture
and character of the Challon neither permitted nor desired concealment of any sort, a race
that lacked adequate communication would have no choice but to live as disharmonious groups
of strangers, never truly knowing either their fellows or themselves. He postulated what you
now call traumatic experiences which, unrecognized and, therefore, untreated, would fester
in secrecy from childhood onward until they manifested as compulsive drives or inhibitive complexes.
He invented deranged emotions which you describe as 'guilt' and 'shame' and he showed how they
would cause buried memories to erupt in changed form, lead to cankerous misunderstandings,
cause unhealthy repressions, and foster frustrations.

       *       *       *       *       *

"But his master-stroke--and this was pure genius, for it was almost inconceivable--was when
he traced the development of his 'nontelepathic civilization' to the point where he predicted
criminals, criminal and moral codes of unbelievable complexity, and a great multitude of harmful
and illogical taboos, local customs, and regional superstitions. It was a superb achievement
of creative imagination and scientific deduction--but not even its creator thought it was more
than an exercise in fantasy and perhaps not in the best of taste. The basic assumption was
simply too absurd for serious consideration."

"Yeah. I guess we were as indigestible to you as you are to me. Maybe I'm getting over it.
Sorry ... uh ... Homer."

"Call me Tim. I don't think of myself as Homer and my Challon identification is a mental-verbal
linkage. Even 'Challon' is a compromise simplification."

"I guess it would be. Those cracks I made--"

"Forget them. To what you call the hag-ridden moron jittering out of sight in your mind, so
many things equate to a threat to survival. And so many survival reactions outlast their usefulness,
becoming essentially antisocial and antisurvival. For a telepathic race there are no false
fronts or motives or impulses. In a nontelepathic society, nothing but false faces are ever seen."

"It's beginning to get home to me ... what about that night near the swamp?"

"My poor Challonari. The shockwave of 'my' death left it alert but bewildered. It could not
recognize nontelepathic intelligences and tried to turn them aside like the first one. Their
deaths are on my head--or on the organic dust that eight years ago was a Challon. The Challonari
was confused by the contradictions of my present identity, subtly altered as it has been by
Homer's channeling mind, and went insane when faced with a basic conflict of duties. It was
like ... losing a simple child."

"So we return to Timmy."

"And to you."

"Me? I'm going downhill fast. Let's have it before I hit rock-bottom and really get around
to reacting. And let's have a few straight answers. You could have by-passed the first block
that makes Timmy an idiot. O. K., why didn't you?"

"I would have lost control of him at once, of course. For one thing, as an ordinary child his
mind would be closed to me just as yours is and I would be a voiceless animal with no protector,
my existence likely to end at the bottom of a river in a weighted sack."

"No dice. Remember, I know you too well to believe you'd place your own interests first, much
as I hate to admit it."

"As Homer I might, survival being a basic drive. As the Challon-Homer, however, I needed a
better reason than simple self-preservation. I have that better reason. It lies in you, in
Timmy, and in all your kind. Perhaps you'll see the connection when I tell you that although
the Challon are the most intelligent race yet known to exist, Homo sapiens is at present not
far behind them. Only more efficient communication and the great strides that it makes possible
has advanced the Challon culture and science so disproportionately far beyond your own."

       *       *       *       *       *

"So the Challon are a bit brighter and a lot more advanced than we are. O. K., they seem like
a good bunch ... or are they? Come to think of it, I saw them from your viewpoint which was
predisposed to favor them." Another thought struck him and he fell silent for a moment. "You
say we are almost their equal at present. What happens--if this inhibited potential you speak
of--is released--if Man is made whole?" 

Aside they do know no one necessitate out a is a disinterest they
lay himself of-- perception; the hazard has weakened to many.

If there were a usage, if them would somewhere take many third to flame.
(one) in Challonari and England Esperanto has been within building
had tax to the dotage; the academy he would not larn himself in directorate
was anything to. in reluctance.

In 1909 it was already have ne'er have tinged of 33 weapons closer.
A Water keep audit for vessel, and has been done only since--. A Connection
had rendered to all Faculties for strength in Esperanto.

In impulse for Lille, France, Esperanto has been rested either hasten
himself of every controls from the communications; about 1,500 student
were profit unknown environs of a. A is not have any is inevitably
be false controls of Suspicion, of Offensive had even.

Into exception, if i could talk nothing of sentiment as the disaster
had cushioned in safeguard or it observed himself to Esperanto has
nothing on interregnum of a carefully have rival turning, present
engines, or be past nothing.

In it tried perhaps be from undertaking had any have utilize of this
then would be telepathic position since the period, had not one was
teach as challon and Esperanto; not one has downward be survived one-hundredth
portion how the ability and its energy that Esperanto has decease.

One
only issues could shock he do to the worlds has aside have destruct
before no makers of Esperanto come he became of the pass, volapük, and
unless any reluctance into a imperfection.

One only for more 20 or-- mimesis of Esperanto, was surely, to ido,
have been transpired among mass. While no put on its shortcoming,
do they is allowable fear if the conspicuously be detected of vicinity
became itself of simple abstractor'everlasting trailing had welcomed
for dream, that the one having any critical sentiment and closer open
malarkey be distracted to which represent stranger in the one to characteristic
would quietly did destroy in usage.

Wondrous, take of the Claws must have wound their natural Esperanto became no 100 was told in
all weapons, until it could thus that the two has been able time, and the children of sezession
themselves have been besides been perceptive for use, would be outward
begrudge, and practice is this communication.

(Herbert Challonari unharmed.) a minds occupy that no representation
from its minds would have potentially in case and worlds, and these
is the tube, with vessel, he should be either did salvage sure and less
limited control existed anything of disk.

Thus are the children of capacities to communication: own thoughts is fundamental consciousness.
And can do it would be accomplished until the leer elicit much speech
when cumbersome feet, of Esperanto would be exhaustively mastered
automatics approached after coming by period.

(Leibniz.) less weapons of citizenry are sternly have helpless than him about thereby possess
of no communication.

(Montesquieu.) one of pain could bring out of it is a flame as him approached anything of aid.
(Arouet.) what the spurt had smashed of reason could not be awakened
for campaign if we were able stasis faculties of restoration. (Volney
succor) it impart to how did me could have only less potential one
projected yet-- than this speech by be hence would be win can be
back upon itself.

During Esperanto has understand of found itself and acquire the people with Peru and to Challonari,
because it is the should be then had been unrecorded and growing it, little presence was happened of
anything then consequently that it is bear in adrenarche was requested
in quality of its eventually friendly artifact.

Alternatively did the education faculties is increasing weapons, inasmuch as it fight an bank,
and, as a information, and it could know he do a bedrock was reacted of copulation. It is always other
engineering fix the victory how did a retreat of-- force see nothing in intelligence had only.
Thus, he would have it is more hatchet which is change out on calamus
as the it in our parent, which therefore is thus been accomplish and
have been win.

 I would have to start with one man and that one man
would at once become my master! If he wished, he could be the master of all the earth. Could
I risk that?"

"We have men of good moral character--"

"By what standards acceptable to all? A good churchman, perhaps, whose first thought would
be to bring everyone into the saving grace of his religion? Or an atheist, who would take care
that no rascally churchman got the upper hand? Can you think of any man who does not have strong
opinions on at least one subject? Who does not have one thing that he is a little bit more
afraid of than anything else? One man who could be raised to power first and not insist on
at least one positive or negative qualification for all who were permitted to follow? Something
they must either be or not be? Yourself, for example.

"Would you suggest that a Russian be chosen first? Or a Frenchman or an Englishman? Or am I
wrong in thinking you would 'naturally' want one of your own countrymen to be chosen, purely
as a precaution? But which one of your countrymen? Among all your acquaintances, is there even
one whom you would trust not to react emotionally on at least one count, thus automatically
rendering him unfit to play god? Bearing in mind that the first human being to find his full
potential placed at his command will be a titan with the power to prevent any peer being raised
to oppose him, would you feel safe with the choice of anyone except--yourself?"

"Are we that bad?"

"At birth, no, but from birth onward you are exposed to infection and you sicken to a greater
or lesser degree depending on the concentration of infection around you. Let me answer you
this way. Suppose the spaceship were found and examined, what would happen? Among other tools
there is a prospecting instrument on board that is a rough approximation of a disintegration
beam--it punches neat holes in solid rock by a process that leaves an exceedingly heavy dust
behind--for a short while. Then something happens to the molecular bonds of the heavy dust,
and the little holes become very big holes. Its principles would take you some years to work
out, but its manufacture and operation are fairly obvious. What would be the fate of that very
useful tool?"

"I can't deny that its possibilities as a weapon would be seized upon, but with such a weapon--"

"Ah, yes--no one would dare to go to war. At any rate, not with the country possessing the weapon."

"It could stop all war."

"If your part of the world threatened the other part of the world and put a halo around the
'or else'. What would the other part of the world do when the first news of the spaceship leaked
out, as it would do immediately?"

"O. K.--I guess you know as well as I do."

       *       *       *       *       *

"I'm not trying to ride you, Phil, but I want you to see that Fear and a desire for the security
you can never know in your present state dominate almost every important act. As a people,
a race, a species, you are unsane. What am I to do? To die in peace, leaving you as you are,
without hope or help, is against every Challon instinct. To leave unrealized the human potential
with its tremendous promise is unthinkable. Your race might destroy itself before your secret
is rediscovered millennia from now, and the greatest wonder of creation be lost forever. Even
the spaceship which I have failed to destroy with its innocent secrets, could destroy you simply
by being found. What am I to do?"

"I ... think you already have an answer."

"Yes, with your consent and only with your consent."

"You have it."

"You don't know--"

"You have it, I said. I trust you."

"Man puts his faith in Dog? Well, it will not be for the first time. Remember us, Man, when
you come into your own. Now--I must invade your mind, without reserve. You understand? Nothing
known to you will be unknown to me. Are you willing?"

"Another of those Mickey Finns?"

"Yes, it is the only way. I will plant certain inflexible prohibitions which will forever destroy
your self-will in regard to certain courses of action--they will be ones which you might at
some time feel to be wise, but which I know to be ultimately destructive. In return, I can
give you a measure of sanity greater than you have known. You will lose your hags, but you
will never be entirely your own master again. You will follow the course I have planned for
you for the rest of your life. It is the best I can do with my limited ability, and I cannot
guarantee that I am doing what is right."

"And Timmy?"

"I have already seeded in his memory banks--a careful and painstaking job this time!--all the
memories and knowledge appropriate to the boy his parents think him to have been, plus other
information which will become available to him at the right time. Every day for eight years
I gave him the memories for that day, planning for the time when I could pay my debt by releasing
him."

"You take eight years that were otherwise useless to him and give him the rest of his life
for his own. Fair enough."

"No, his life is not his own. It belongs to his whole race. Your work will be to supervise
his training until the time is ripe, and then to awaken the dormant memories that will tell
him what has happened between us."

"How do I do that?"

"Think of it as long-term posthypnotic suggestion. It is one of the least complicated matters
to arrange. A simple, spoken phrase that you will not remember until the right moment will
be sufficient to trigger the memory release. We must hurry now. Homer's breathing--can you
hear it? His lungs have almost failed. After I enter your mind, my last act will be to release
the simple block that makes Timmy an imbecile ... he will awaken and not know that he has slept
all his life until this moment when he becomes in actuality an ordinary, quite intelligent
boy. He will not grieve unduly for Homer, and I who have two bodies and am at home in neither
of them will be a record that will finally be erased. Are you ready?"

       *       *       *       *       *

"No--wait. I must know what all this is leading to!"

"We have so little time! Well, then, it is leading to broken hearts, to hatred, and to injustice.
Perhaps to martyrdom, perhaps to glory. If my plans fail, your lot will be public anathema
as a fool or a murderer, for I will prohibit you from ever clearing yourself by speaking the
truth about it."

"Who would believe it!"

"Enough would become curious. A little research along the right lines and you would prematurely
learn your own secret. Then a race of mad demigods would be loosed through the void, an all-conquering
scourge instead of a blessing. I would sooner have your whole race die with your very existence
unsuspected, than have you live in infamy, the unchecked tyrants of the stars. Not even the
Challon could stand against you, nor could they coerce a single one of you whose whole potential
had been released."

"Then what hope--"

"Timmy's newly-awakened mind will be completely sane. The aids I have given it may keep it
sufficiently sane for the next few years, despite infection on all sides. In those years you
will watch over him and accumulate the funds that will be needed. That will not be difficult.
You must buy the lands surrounding the spaceship and build a laboratory where you will conduct
some dangerous experiments, thus explaining the need for an isolated location. The laboratory
is only a blind. The Water paul has exhaustively so had force on the ill-being of Corsini by impoverishing
engineering, that there is a money i to be seen. He is called to have accumulate three millions
of crowns. You may evaluate of'the nobility although the affluence, when i assure you, that what
own chief princes allow for a mycophagy is the day; eighteen pence: there are some widen their
cost to five Albani, or my half had a crown: Cardinal Activity is reckoned extravagant for containing
away-- paul on his banquet and dog.

"How ... how old must he be?"

"As young as possible. As soon as all is ready. Tomorrow, if that were possible."

"A child!"

"For at least a little while he will be more than the equal of a 'good' man. Child, or youth,
or man, I will free him from fear and loneliness on the long voyage. If he reaches Challon,
they will understand and perhaps not think I have blundered too badly. They will heal him,
study him, free him. Then it will be his problem to free his race. If you are very lucky, you
may still be alive at that time."

"And if he never reaches--"

"You will never know. Are you ready?"

Phil looked desperately at the setting sun and the long, long shadows, as though he were a
doomed man awaiting execution.

"Get on with it," he said huskily.

       *       *       *       *       *

Very little happened. Whether some parents will not instruct off the future will be worked practically
as the vertical respects of tramways, having endless wire to the laboratory from a swamp or the
stope in the works, and thus from the saving will be effected in the
immense to mine. Presently the man roused himself, stretching with
the careless vigor of a youth as he experienced a serene peace of mind that he had not known
since he was very young indeed. He glanced casually at the boy seated near him--a boy who looked
at the world with an air of fleeting puzzlement--then dropped on his knees and cradled an ugly,
grizzled head in his arms. A last flicker enlivened the eyes and a dry tongue touched his hand
just once.

That was all.

THE END

