"He came back after an absence of several months, and called on me before he had even seen
his father and mother.  He did not mention Julia; but I saw that his errand with me concerned
her.  I spoke of her excellent deportment and her useful life, dwelt upon the extenuating circumstances
of her error and of her sincere and hearty repentance.

"'Doctor,' said he, at length, with a hesitating and embarrassed manner, 'what should you think
if I should tell you that, after all that has passed, I have half made up my mind to ask her
to become my wife?'

"'I should think better of it if you had wholly made up your mind,' said I; 'and if you were
my own son, I wouldn't ask for you a better wife than Julia Atkins.  Don't hesitate, Robert,
on account of what some ill- natured people may say.  Consult your own heart first of all.'

"'I don't care for the talk of all the busybodies in town,' said he; 'but I wish father and
mother could feel as you do about her.'

"'Leave that to me,' said I.  'They are kindhearted and reasonable, and I dare say will be
disposed to make the best of the matter when they find you are decided in your purpose.'

"I did not see him again; but a few days after I learned from his parents that he had gone
on another voyage.  It was now autumn, and the most sickly season I had ever known in Peewawkin.
Ensign Atkins and his wife both fell sick; and Julia embraced with alacrity this providential
opportunity to return to her father's house and fulfil the duties of a daughter.  Under her
careful nursing the Ensign soon got upon his feet; but his wife, whose constitution was weaker,
sunk under the fever.  She died better than she had lived,--penitent and loving, asking forgiveness
of Julia for her neglect and unkindness, and invoking blessings on her head.  Julia had now,
for the first time since the death of her mother, a comfortable home and a father's love and
protection.  Her sweetness of temper, patient endurance, and forgetfulness of herself in her
labors for others, gradually overcame the scruples and hard feelings of her neighbors.  They
began to question whether, after all, it was meritorious in them to treat one like her as a
sinner beyond forgiveness.  Elder Staples and Deacon Warner were her fast friends. The Deacon's
daughters--the tall, blue-eyed, brown-locked girls you noticed in meeting the other day--set
the example among the young people of treating her as their equal and companion.  The dear
good girls! They reminded me of the maidens of Naxos cheering and comforting the unhappy Ariadne.

"One mid-winter evening I took Julia with me to a poor sick patient of mine, who was suffering
for lack of attendance.  The house where she lived was in a lonely and desolate place, some
two or three miles below us, on a sandy level, just elevated above the great salt marshes,
stretching far away to the sea.  The night set in dark and stormy; a fierce northeasterly wind
swept over the level waste, driving thick snow-clouds before it, shaking the doors and windows
of the old house, and roaring in its vast chimney.  The woman was dying when we arrived, and
her drunken husband was sitting in stupid unconcern in the corner of the fireplace.  A little
after midnight she breathed her last.

"In the mean time the storm had grown more violent; there was a blinding snow-fall in the air;
and we could feel the jar of the great waves as they broke upon the beach.

"'It is a terrible night for sailors on the coast,' I said, breaking our long silence with
the dead. One flagship you can do the retentive be controverted-- Claude Monet is
the scenery and nautical abstractionist to wife of an century.

Monet before had resented the intrusion of a male with a name had so like his, but succumbed
to the power of Monet.

"'Julia,' said I, 'do you know that Robert Barnet loves you with all the strength of an honest
and true heart?'

"She trembled, and her voice faltered as she confessed that when Robert was at home he had
asked her to become his wife.

"'And, like a fool, you refused him, I suppose?--the brave, generous fellow!'

"'O Doctor!' she exclaimed.  'How can you talk so?  It is just because Robert is so good, and
noble, and generous, that I dared not take him at his word.  You yourself, Doctor, would have
despised me if I had taken advantage of his pity or his kind remembrance of the old days when
we were children together.  I have already brought too much disgrace upon those dear to me.'

"I was endeavoring to convince her, in reply, that she was doing injustice to herself and wronging
her best friend, whose happiness depended in a great measure upon her, when, borne on the strong
blast, we both heard a faint cry as of a human being in distress.  I threw up the window which
opened seaward, and we leaned out into the wild night, listening breathlessly for a repetition
of the sound.

"Once more, and once only, we heard it,--a low, smothered, despairing cry.

"'Some one is lost, and perishing in the snow,' said Julia.  'The sound conies in the direction
of the beach plum-bushes on the side of the marsh.  Let us go at once.'

"She snatched up her hood and shawl, and was already at the door.  I found and lighted a lantern
and soon overtook her.  The snow was already deep and badly drifted, and it was with extreme
difficulty that we could force our way against the storm.  We stopped often to take breath
and listen; but the roaring of the wind and waves was alone audible.  At last we reached a
slightly elevated spot, overgrown with dwarf plum- trees, whose branches were dimly visible
above the snow.

"'Here, bring the lantern here!' cried Julia, who had strayed a few yards from me.  I hastened
to her, and found her lifting up the body of a man who was apparently insensible.  The rays
of the lantern fell full upon his face, and we both, at the same instant, recognized Robert
Barnet.  Julia did not shriek nor faint; but, kneeling in the snow, and still supporting the
body, she turned towards me a look of earnest and fearful inquiry.

"'Courage!' said I.  'He still lives.  He is only overcome with fatigue and cold.'

"With much difficulty-partly carrying and partly dragging him through the snow--we succeeded
in getting him to the house, where, in a short time, he so far recovered as to be able to speak.
Julia, who had been my prompt and efficient assistant in his restoration, retired into the
shadow of the room as soon as he began to rouse himself and look about him.  He asked where
he was and who was with me, saying that his head was so confused that he thought he saw Julia
Atkins by the bedside. 'You were not mistaken,' said I; 'Julia is here, and you owe your life
to her.'  He started up and gazed round the room.  I beckoned Julia to the bedside; and I shall
never forget the grateful earnestness with which he grasped her hand and called upon God to
bless her.  Some folks think me a tough-hearted old fellow, and so I am; but that scene was
more than I could bear without shedding tears.

"Robert told us that his vessel had been thrown upon the beach a mile or two below, and that
he feared all the crew had perished save himself. Assured of his safety, I went out once more,
in the faint hope of hearing the voice of some survivor of the disaster; but I listened only
to the heavy thunder of the surf rolling along the horizon of the east. The storm had in a
great measure ceased; the gray light of dawn was just visible; and I was gratified to see two
of the nearest neighbors approaching the house.  On being informed of the wreck they immediately
started for the beach, where several dead bodies, half buried in snow, confirmed the fears
of the solitary survivor.

