The time spent under the summer skies of the north would have been dreary enough if he had
regularly received news from home. Utterly without success in finding occupation in Corsica,
and hopeless as to France, Joseph had some time before turned his eyes toward Tuscany for a
possible career. He was now about to make a final effort, and seek personally at the Tuscan
capital official recognition with a view to relearning his native tongue, now almost forgotten,
and to obtaining subsequent employment of any kind that might offer in the land of his birth.
Lucien, the archdeacon, was seriously ill, and General Marbeuf, the last influential friend
of the family, had died. Louis had been promised a scholarship in one of the royal artillery
schools; deprived of his patron, he would probably lose the appointment. Finally, the pecuniary
affairs of Mme. de Buonaparte were again entangled, and now appeared hopeless. She had for
a time been receiving an annual state bounty for raising mulberry-trees, as France was introducing
silk culture into the island. The inspectors had condemned this year's work, and were withholding
a substantial portion of the allowance. These were the facts and they probably reached Napoleon
at Valence; it was doubtless a knowledge of them which put an end to all his light-heartedness
and to his study, historical or political. He immediately made ready to avail himself of his
leave so that he might instantly set out to his mother's relief.

Despondent and anxious, he moped, grew miserable, and contracted a slight malarial fever which
for the next six or seven years never entirely relaxed its hold on him. Among his papers has
recently been found the long, wild, pessimistic rhapsody to which reference has already been
made and in which there is talk of suicide. The plaint is of the degeneracy among men, of the
destruction of primitive simplicity in Corsica by the French occupation, of his own isolation,
and of his yearning to see his friends once more. Life is no longer worth while; his country
gone, a patriot has naught to live for, especially when he has no pleasure and all is pain--when
the character of those about him is to his own as moonlight is to sunlight. If there were but
a single life in his way, he would bury the avenging blade of his country and her violated
laws in the bosom of the tyrant. Some of his complaining was even less coherent than this.
It is absurd to take the morbid outpouring seriously, except in so far as it goes to prove
that its writer was a victim of the sentimental egoism into which the psychological studies
of the eighteenth century had degenerated, and to suggest that possibly if he had not been
Napoleon he might have been a Werther. Though dated May third, no year is given, and it may
well describe the writer's feelings in any period of despondency. No such state of mind was
likely to have arisen in the preceding spring, but it may have been written even then as a
relief to pent-up feelings which did not appear on the surface; or possibly in some later year
when the agony of suffering for himself and his family laid hold upon him. In any case it expresses
a bitter melancholy, such as would be felt by a boy face to face with want.

At Valence Napoleon visited his old friend the Abbé Saint-Ruf, to solicit favor for Lucien,
who, having left Brienne, would study nothing but the humanities, and was determined to become
a priest. At Aix he saw both his uncle Fesch and his brother. At Marseilles he is said to have
paid his respects to the Abbé Raynal, requesting advice, and seeking further encouragement
in his historical labors. This is very doubtful, for there is no record of Raynal's return
to France before 1787. Lodging in that city, as appears from a memorandum on his papers, with
a M. Allard, he must soon have found a vessel sailing for his destination, because he came
expeditiously to Ajaccio, arriving in that city toward the middle of the month, if the ordinary
time had been consumed in the journey. Such appears to be the likeliest account of this period,
although our knowledge is not complete. In the archives of Douay, there is, according to an
anonymous local historian, a record of Buonaparte's presence in that city with the regiment
of La Fère, and he is quoted as having declared at Elba to Sir Neil Campbell that he had been
sent thither. But in the "Epochs of My Life," he wrote that he left Valence on September first,
1786, for Ajaccio, arriving on the fifteenth. Weighing the probabilities, it seems likely that
the latter was doubtful, since there is but the slenderest possibility of his having been at
Douay in the following year, the only other hypothesis, and there exists no record of his activities
in Corsica before the spring of 1787. The chronology of the two years is still involved in
obscurity and it is possible that he went with his regiment to Douay, contracted his malaria
there, and did not actually get leave of absence until February first of the latter year.

CHAPTER VII.

Further Attempts at Authorship.

     Straits of the Buonaparte Family -- Napoleon's Efforts to
     Relieve Them -- Home Studies -- His History and Short
     Stories -- Visit to Paris -- Renewed Petitions to Government
     -- More Authorship -- Secures Extension of his Leave -- The
     Family Fortunes Desperate -- The History of Corsica
     Completed -- Its Style, Opinions, and Value -- Failure to
     Find a Publisher -- Sentiments Expressed in his Short
     Stories -- Napoleon's Irregularities as a French Officer --
     His Life at Auxonne -- His Vain Appeal to Paoli -- The
     History Dedicated to Necker.

[Sidenote: 1787-89.]

When Napoleon arrived at Ajaccio, and, after an absence of eight years, was again with his
family, he found their affairs in a serious condition. Not one of the old French officials
remained; the diplomatic leniency of occupation was giving place to the official stringency
of a permanent possession; proportionately the disaffection of the patriot remnant among the
people was slowly developing into a wide-spread discontent. Joseph, the hereditary head of
a family which had been thoroughly French in conduct, and was supposed to be so in sentiment,
which at least looked to the King for further favors, was still a stanch royalist. Having been
unsuccessful in every other direction, he was now seeking to establish a mercantile connection
with Florence which would enable him to engage in the oil-trade. A modest beginning was, he
hoped, about to be made. It was high time, for the only support of his mother and her children,
in the failure to secure the promised subsidy for her mulberry plantations, was the income
of the old archdeacon, who was now confined to his room, and growing feebler every day under
attacks of gout. Unfortunately, Joseph's well-meant efforts again came to naught.

The behavior of the pale, feverish, masterful young lieutenant was not altogether praiseworthy.
He filled the house with his new-fangled philosophy, and assumed a self-important air. Among
his papers and in his own handwriting is a blank form for engaging and binding recruits. Clearly
he had a tacit understanding either with himself or with others to secure some of the fine
Corsican youth for the regiment of La Fère. But there is no record of any success in the enterprise.
Among the letters which he wrote was one dated April first, 1787, to the renowned Dr. Tissot
of Lausanne, referring to his correspondent's interest in Paoli, and asking advice concerning
the treatment of the canon's gout. The physician never replied, and the epistle was found among
his papers marked "unanswered and of little interest." The old ecclesiastic listened to his
nephew's patriotic tirades, and even approved; Mme. de Buonaparte coldly disapproved. She would
have preferred calmer, more efficient common sense. Not that her son was inactive in her behalf;
on the contrary, he began a series of busy representations to the provincial officials which
secured some good-will and even trifling favor to the family. But the results were otherwise
unsatisfactory, for the mulberry money was not paid.

Napoleon's zeal for study was not in the least abated in the atmosphere of home. Joseph in
his memoirs says the reunited family was happy in spite of troubles. There was reciprocal joy
in their companionship and his long absent brother was glad in the pleasures both of home and
of nature so congenial to his feelings and his tastes. The most important part of Napoleon's
baggage appears to have been the books, documents, and papers he brought with him. That he
had collections on Corsica has been told. Joseph says he had also the classics of both French
and Latin literature as well as the philosophical writings of Plato; likewise, he thinks, Ossian
and Homer. In the "Discourse" presented not many years later to the Lyons Academy and in the
talks at St. Helena, Napoleon refers to his enjoyment of nature at this time; to the hours
spent in the grotto, or under the majestic oak, or in the shade of the olive groves, all parts
of the sadly neglected garden of Milleli some distance from the house and belonging to his
mother; to his walks on the meadows among the lowing herds; to his wanderings on the shore
at sunset, his return by moonlight, and the gentle melancholy which unbidden enveloped him
in spite of himself. He savored the air of Corsica, the smell of its earth, the spicy breezes
of its thickets, he would have known his home with his eyes shut, and with them open he found
it the earthly paradise. Yet all the while he was busy, very busy, partly with good reading,
partly in the study of history, and in large measure with the practical conduct of the family
affairs.

As the time for return to service drew near it was clear that the mother with her family of
four helpless little children, all a serious charge on her time and purse, could not be left
without the support of one older son, at least; and Joseph was now about to seek his fortune
in Pisa. Accordingly Napoleon with methodical care drew up two papers still existing, a memorandum
of how an application for renewed leave on the ground of sickness was to be made and also the
form of application itself, which no doubt he copied. At any rate he applied, on the ground
of ill health, for a renewal of leave to last five and a half months. It was granted, and the
regular round of family cares went on; but the days and weeks brought no relief. Ill health
there was, and perhaps sufficient to justify that plea, but the physical fever was intensified
by the checks which want set upon ambition. The passion for authorship reasserted itself with
undiminished violence. The history of Corsica was resumed, recast, and vigorously continued,
while at the same time the writer completed a short story entitled "The Count of Essex,"--with
an English setting, of course,--and wrote a Corsican novel. The latter abounds in bitterness
against France, the most potent force in the development of the plot being the dagger. The
author's use of French, though easier, is still very imperfect. A slight essay, or rather story,
in the style of Voltaire, entitled "The Masked Prophet," was also completed.

It was reported early in the autumn that many regiments were to be mobilized for special service,
among them that of La Fère. This gave Napoleon exactly the opening he desired, and he left
Corsica at once, without reference to the end of his furlough. He reached Paris in October,
a fortnight before he was due. His regiment was still at Douay: he may have spent a few days
with it in that city. But this is not certain, and soon after it was transferred to St. Denis,
now almost a suburb of Paris; it was destined for service in western France, where incipient
tumults were presaging the coming storm. Eventually its destination was changed and it was
ordered to Auxonne. The Estates-General of France were about to meet for the first time in
one hundred and seventy-five years; they had last met in 1614, and had broken up in disorder.
They were now called as a desperate remedy, not understood, but at least untried, for ever-increasing
embarrassments; and the government, fearing still greater disorders, was making ready to repress
any that might break out in districts known to be specially disaffected. All this was apparently
of secondary importance to young Buonaparte; he had a scheme to use the crisis for the benefit
of his family. Compelled by their utter destitution at the time of his father's death, he had
temporarily and for that occasion assumed his father's rôle of suppliant. Now for a second
time he sent in a petition. It was written in Paris, dated November ninth, 1787, and addressed,
in his mother's behalf, to the intendant for Corsica resident at the French capital. His name
and position must have carried some weight, it could not have been the mere effrontery of an
adventurer which secured him a hearing at Versailles, an interview with the prime minister,
Loménie de Brienne, and admission to all the minor officials who might deal with his mother's
claim. All these privileges he declares that he had enjoyed and the statements must have been
true. The petition was prefaced by a personal letter containing them. Though a supplication
in form, the request is unlike his father's humble and almost cringing papers, being rather
a demand for justice than a petition for favor; it is unlike them in another respect, because
it contains a falsehood, or at least an utterly misleading half-truth: a statement that he
had shortened his leave because of his mother's urgent necessities.

The paper was not handed in until after the expiration of his leave, and his true object was
not to rejoin his regiment, as was hinted in it, but to secure a second extension of leave.
Such was the slackness of discipline that he spent all of November and the first half of December
in Paris. During this period he made acquaintance with the darker side of Paris life. The papers
numbered four, five, and six in the Fesch collection give a fairly detailed account of one
adventure and his bitter repentance. The second suggests the writing of history as an antidote
for unhappiness, and the last is a long, rambling effusion in denunciation of pleasure, passion,
and license; of gallantry as utterly incompatible with patriotism. His acquaintance with history
is ransacked for examples. Still another short effusion which may belong to the same period
is in the form of an imaginary letter, saturated likewise with the Corsican spirit, addressed
by King Theodore to Walpole. It has little value or meaning, except as it may possibly foreshadow
the influence on Napoleon's imagination of England's boundless hospitality to political fugitives
like Theodore and Paoli.

Lieutenant Buonaparte remained in Paris until he succeeded in procuring permission to spend
the next six months in Corsica, at his own charges. He was quite as disingenuous in his request
to the Minister of War as in his memorial to the intendant for Corsica, representing that the
estates of Corsica were about to meet, and that his presence was essential to safeguard important
interests which in his absence would be seriously compromised. Whatever such a plea may have
meant, his serious cares as the real head of the family were ever uppermost, and never neglected.
Louis had, as was feared, lost his appointment, and though not past the legal age, was really
too old to await another vacancy; Lucien was determined to leave Brienne in any case, and to
stay at Aix in order to seize the first chance which might arise of entering the seminary.
Napoleon made some provision--what it was is not known--for Louis's further temporary stay
at Brienne, and then took Lucien with him as far as their route lay together. He reached his
home again on the first of January, 1788.

The affairs of the family were at last utterly desperate, and were likely, moreover, to grow
worse before they grew better. The old archdeacon was failing daily, and, although known to
have means, he declared himself destitute of ready money. With his death would disappear a
portion of his income; his patrimony and savings, which the Buonapartes hoped of course to
inherit, were an uncertain quantity, probably insufficient for the needs of such a family.
The mulberry money was still unpaid; all hope of wresting the ancestral estates from the government
authorities was buried; Joseph was without employment, and, as a last expedient, was studying
in Pisa for admission to the bar. Louis and Lucien were each a heavy charge; Napoleon's income
was insufficient even for his own modest wants, regulated though they were by the strictest
economy. Who shall cast a stone at the shiftiness of a boy not yet nineteen, charged with such
cares, yet consumed with ambition, and saturated with the romantic sentimentalism of his times?
Some notion of his embarrassments and despair can be obtained from a rapid survey of his mental
states and the corresponding facts. An ardent republican and revolutionary, he was tied by
the strongest bonds to the most despotic monarchy in Europe. A patriotic Corsican, he was the
servant of his country's oppressor. Conscious of great ability, he was seeking an outlet in
the pursuit of literature, a line of work entirely unsuited to his powers. The head and support
of a large family, he was almost penniless; if he should follow his convictions, he and they
might be altogether so. In the period of choice and requiring room for experiment, he saw himself
doomed to a fixed, inglorious career, and caged in a framework of unpropitious circumstance.
Whatever the moral obliquity in his feeble expedients, there is the pathos of human limitations
in their character.

Whether the resolution had long before been taken, or was of recent formation, Napoleon now
intended to make fame and profit go hand in hand. The meeting of the Corsican estates was,
as far as is known, entirely forgotten, and authorship was resumed, not merely with the ardor
of one who writes from inclination, but with the regular drudgery of a craftsman. In spite
of all discouragements, he appeared to a visitor in his family, still considered the most devoted
in the island to the French monarchy because so favored by it, as being "full of vivacity,
quick in his speech and motions, his mind apparently hard at work in digesting schemes and
forming plans and proudly rejecting every other suggestion but that of his own fancy. For this
intolerable ambition he was often reproved by the elder Lucien, his uncle, a dignitary of the
church. Yet these admonitions seemed to make no impression upon the mind of Napoleon, who received
them with a grin of pity, if not of contempt."[15] The amusements of the versatile and headstrong
boy would have been sufficient occupation for most men. Regulating, as far as possible, his
mother's complicated affairs, he journeyed frequently to Bastia, probably to collect money
due for young mulberry-trees which had been sold, possibly to get material for his history.
On these visits he met and dined with the artillery officers of the company stationed there.
One of them, M. de Roman, a very pronounced royalist, has given in his memoirs a striking portrait
of his guest.[16] "His face was not pleasing to me at all, his character still less; and he
was so dry and sententious for a youth of his age, a French officer too, that I never for a
moment entertained the thought of making him my friend. My knowledge of governments, ancient
and modern, was not sufficiently extended to discuss with him his favorite subject of conversation.
So when in my turn I gave the dinner, which happened three or four times that year, I retired
after the coffee, leaving him to the hands of a captain of ours, far better able than I was
to lock arms with such a valiant antagonist. My comrades, like myself, saw nothing in this
but absurd pedantry. We even believed that this magisterial tone which he assumed was meaningless
until one day when he reasoned so forcibly on the rights of nations in general, his own in
particular, Stupete gentes! that we could not recover from our amazement, especially when in
speaking of a meeting of their Estates, about calling which there was some deliberation, and
which M. de Barrin sought to delay, following in that the blunders of his predecessor, he said:
'that it was very surprising that M. de Barrin thought to prevent them from deliberating about
their interests,' adding in a threatening tone, 'M. de Barrin does not know the Corsicans;
he will see what they can do.' This expression gave the measure of his character. One of our
comrades replied: 'Would you draw your sword against the King's representative?' He made no
answer. We separated coldly and that was the last time this former comrade did me the honor
to dine with me." Making all allowance, this incident exhibits the feeling and purpose of Napoleon.
During these days he also completed a plan for the defense of St. Florent, of La Mortilla,
and of the Gulf of Ajaccio; drew up a report on the organization of the Corsican militia; and
wrote a paper on the strategic importance of the Madeleine Islands. This was his play; his
work was the history of Corsica. It was finished sooner than he had expected; anxious to reap
the pecuniary harvest of his labors and resume his duties, he was ready for the printer when
he left for France in the latter part of May to secure its publication. Although dedicated
in its first form to a powerful patron, Monseigneur Marbeuf, then Bishop of Sens, like many
works from the pen of genius it remained at the author's death in manuscript.

              [Footnote 15: Correspondence of Sir John Sinclair, I,
              47.]

              [Footnote 16: Souvenirs d'un officier royaliste, par M.
              de R..., Vol. I, p. 117.]

The book was of moderate size, and of moderate merit.[17] Its form, repeatedly changed from
motives of expediency, was at first that of letters addressed to the Abbé Raynal. Its contents
display little research and no scholarship. The style is intended to be popular, and is dramatic
rather than narrative. There is exhibited, as everywhere in these early writings, an intense
hatred of France, a glowing affection for Corsica and her heroes. A very short account of one
chapter will sufficiently characterize the whole work. Having outlined in perhaps the most
effective passage the career of Sampiero, and sketched his diplomatic failures at all the European
courts except that of Constantinople, where at last he had secured sympathy and was promised
aid, the author depicts the patriot's bitterness when recalled by the news of his wife's treachery.
Confronting his guilty spouse, deaf to every plea for pity, hardened against the tender caresses
of his children, the Corsican hero utters judgment. "Madam," he sternly says, "in the face
of crime and disgrace, there is no other resort but death." Vannina at first falls unconscious,
but, regaining her senses, she clasps her children to her breast and begs life for their sake.
But feeling that the petition is futile, she then recalls the memory of her earlier virtue,
and, facing her fate, begs as a last favor that no base executioner shall lay his soiled hands
on the wife of Sampiero, but that he himself shall execute the sentence. Vannina's behavior
moves her husband, but does not touch his heart. "The pity and tenderness," says Buonaparte,
"which she should have awakened found a soul thenceforward closed to the power of sentiment.
Vannina died. She died by the hands of Sampiero."

              [Footnote 17: Printed in Napoléon inconnu, Vol. II, p.
              167.]

Neither the publishers of Valence, nor those of Dôle, nor those of Auxonne, would accept the
work. At Paris one was finally found who was willing to take a half risk. The author, disillusioned
but sanguine, was on the point of accepting the proposition, and was occupied with considering
ways and means, when his friend the Bishop of Sens was suddenly disgraced. The manuscript was
immediately copied and revised, with the result, probably, of making its tone more intensely
Corsican; for it was now to be dedicated to Paoli. The literary aspirant must have foreseen
the coming crash, and must have felt that the exile was to be again the liberator, and perhaps
the master, of his native land. At any rate, he abandoned the idea of immediate publication,
possibly in the dawning hope that as Paoli's lieutenant he could make Corsican history better
than he could write it. It is this copy which has been preserved; the original was probably
destroyed.

The other literary efforts of this feverish time were not as successful even as those in historical
writing. The stories are wild and crude; one only, "The Masked Prophet," has any merit or interest
whatsoever. Though more finished than the others, its style is also abrupt and full of surprises;
the scene and characters are Oriental; the plot is a feeble invention. An ambitious and rebellious
Ameer is struck with blindness, and has recourse to a silver mask to deceive his followers.
Unsuccessful, he poisons them all, throws their corpses into pits of quicklime, then leaps
in himself, to deceive the world and leave no trace of mortality behind. His enemies believe,
as he desired, that he and his people have been taken up into heaven. The whole, however, is
dimly prescient, and the concluding lines of the fable have been thought by believers in augury
to be prophetic. "Incredible instance! How far can the passion for fame go!" Among the papers
of this period are also a constitution for the "calotte," a secret society of his regiment
organized to keep its members up to the mark of conduct expected from gentlemen and officers,
and many political notes. One of these rough drafts is a project for an essay on royal power,
intended to treat of its origin and to display its usurpations, and which closes with these
words: "There are but few kings who do not deserve to be dethroned."

The various absences of Buonaparte from his regiment up to this time are antagonistic to our
modern ideas of military duty. The subsequent ones seem simply inexplicable, even in a service
so lax as that of the crumbling Bourbon dynasty. Almost immediately after Joseph's return,
on the first of June he sailed for France. He did not reach Auxonne, where the artillery regiment
La Fère was now stationed, until early in that month, 1788. He remained there less than a year
and a half, and then actually obtained another leave of absence, from September tenth, 1789,
to February, 1791, which he fully intended should end in his retirement from the French service.[18]
The incidents of this second term of garrison life are not numerous, but from the considerable
body of his notes and exercises which dates from the period we know that he suddenly developed
great zeal in the study of artillery, theoretical and practical, and that he redoubled his
industry in the pursuit of historical and political science. In the former line he worked diligently
and became expert. With his instructor Duteil he grew intimate and the friendship was close
throughout life. He associated on the best of terms with his old friend des Mazis and began
a pleasant acquaintance with Gassendi. So faithful was he to the minutest details of his profession
that he received marks of the highest distinction. Not yet twenty and only a second lieutenant,
he was appointed, with six officers of higher rank, a member of the regimental commission to
study the best disposal of mortars and cannon in firing shells. Either at this time or later
(the date is uncertain), he had sole charge of important manoeuvers held in honor of the Prince
of Condé. These honors he recounted with honest pride in a letter dated August twenty-second
to his great-uncle. Among the Fesch papers are considerable fragments of his writing on the
theory, practice, and history of artillery. Antiquated as are their contents, they show how
patient and thorough was the work of the student, and some of their ideas adapted to new conditions
were his permanent possession, as the greatest master of artillery at the height of his fame.
In the study of politics he read Plato and examined the constitutions of antiquity, devouring
with avidity what literature he could find concerning Venice, Turkey, Tartary, and Arabia.
At the same time he carefully read the history of England, and made some accurate observations
on the condition of contemporaneous politics in France.

              [Footnote 18: Similar instances of repeated and
              lengthened absence from duty among the young officers
              are numerous and easily found in the archives.
              Nevertheless, Buonaparte's case is a very extraordinary
              example of how a clever person could work the system.
              The facts are bad enough, but as many cities claimed
              Homer, so in the Napoleonic legend events of a sojourn
              at Strasburg about this time were given in great detail.
              He was in relations with a famous actress and wrote
              verses which are printed. Even Metternich records that
              the young Napoleon Bonaparte had just left the Alsatian
              capital when he himself arrived there in 1788. Later, in
              1806, a fencing-master claimed that he had instructed
              both these great men in the earlier year at Strasburg.
              Yet the whole tale is impossible. See Napoléon inconnu,
              Vol. I, p. 204.]

His last disappointment had rendered him more taciturn and misanthropic than ever; it seems
clear that he was working to become an expert, not for the benefit of France, but for that
of Corsica. Charged with the oversight of some slight works on the fortifications, he displayed
such incompetence that he was actually punished by a short arrest. Misfortune still pursued
the family. The youth who had been appointed to Brienne when Louis was expecting a scholarship
suddenly died. Mme. de Buonaparte was true to the family tradition, and immediately forwarded
a petition for the place, but was, as before, unsuccessful. Lucien was not yet admitted to
Aix; Joseph was a barrister, to be sure, but briefless. Napoleon once again, but for the last
time,--and with marked impatience, even with impertinence,--took up the task of solicitation.
The only result was a good-humored, non-committal reply. Meantime the first mutterings of the
revolutionary outbreak were heard, and spasmodic disorders, trifling but portentous, were breaking
out, not only among the people, but even among the royal troops. One of these, at Seurre, was
occasioned by the news that the hated and notorious syndicate existing under the scandalous
agreement with the King known as the "Bargain of Famine" had been making additional purchases
of grain from two merchants of that town. This was in April, 1789. Buonaparte was put in command
of a company and sent to aid in suppressing the riot. But it was ended before he arrived; on
May first he returned to Auxonne.

Four days later the Estates met at Versailles. What was passing in the mind of the restless,
bitter, disappointed Corsican is again plainly revealed. A famous letter to Paoli, to which
reference has already been made, is dated June twelfth. It is a justification of his cherished
work as the only means open to a poor man, the slave of circumstances, for summoning the French
administration to the bar of public opinion; viz., by comparing it with Paoli's. Willing to
face the consequences, the writer asks for documentary materials and for moral support, ending
with ardent assurances of devotion from his family, his mother, and himself. But there is a
ring of false coin in many of its words and sentences. The "infamy" of those who betrayed Corsica
was the infamy of his own father; the "devotion" of the Buonaparte family had been to the French
interest, in order to secure free education, with support for their children, in France. The
"enthusiasm" of Napoleon was a cold, unsentimental determination to push their fortunes, which,
with opposite principles, would have been honorable enough. In later years Lucien said that
he had made two copies of the history. It was probably one of these which has been preserved.
Whether or not Paoli read the book does not appear. Be that as it may, his reply to Buonaparte's
letter, written some months later, was not calculated to encourage the would-be historian.
Without absolutely refusing the documents asked for by the aspiring writer, he explained that
he had no time to search for them, and that, besides, Corsican history was only important in
any sense by reason of the men who had made it, not by reason of its achievements. Among other
bits of fatherly counsel was this: "You are too young to write history. Make ready for such
an enterprise slowly. Patiently collect your anecdotes and facts. Accept the opinions of other
writers with reserve." As if to soften the severity of his advice, there follows a strain of
modest self-depreciation: "Would that others had known less of me and I more of myself. Probe
diu vivimus; may our descendants so live that they shall speak of me merely as one who had
good intentions."

Buonaparte's last shift in the treatment of his book was most undignified and petty. With the
unprincipled resentment of despair, in want of money, not of advice, he entirely remodeled
it for the third time, its chapters being now put as fragmentary traditions into the mouth
of a Corsican mountaineer. In this form it was dedicated to Necker, the famous Swiss, who as
French minister of finance was vainly struggling with the problem of how to distribute taxation
equally, and to collect from the privileged classes their share. A copy was first sent to a
former teacher for criticism. His judgment was extremely severe both as to expression and style.
In particular, attention was called to the disadvantage of indulging in so much rhetoric for
the benefit of an overworked public servant like Necker, and to the inappropriateness of putting
his own metaphysical generalizations and captious criticism of French royalty into the mouth
of a peasant mountaineer. Before the correspondence ended, Napoleon's student life was over.
Necker had fled, the French Revolution was rushing on with ever-increasing speed, and the young
adventurer, despairing of success as a writer, seized the proffered opening to become a man
of action. In a letter dated January twelfth, 1789, and written at Auxonne to his mother, the
young officer gives a dreary account of himself. The swamps of the neighborhood and their malarious
exhalations rendered the place, he thought, utterly unwholesome. At all events, he had contracted
a low fever which undermined his strength and depressed his spirits. There was no immediate
hope of a favorable response to the petition for the moneys due on the mulberry plantation
because "this unhappy period in French finance delays furiously (sic) the discussion of our
affair. Let us hope, however, that we may be compensated for our long and weary waiting and
that we shall receive complete restitution." He writes further a terse sketch of public affairs
in France and Europe, speaks despairingly of what the council of war has in store for the engineers
by the proposed reorganization, and closes with tender remembrances to Joseph and Lucien, begging
for news and reminding them that he had received no home letter since the preceding October.
The reader feels that matters have come to a climax and that the scholar is soon to enter the
arena of revolutionary activity. Curiously enough, the language used is French; this is probably
due to the fact that it was intended for the family, rather than for the neighborhood circle.

CHAPTER VIII.

The Revolution in France.

     The French Aristocracy -- Priests, Lawyers, and Petty Nobles
     -- Burghers, Artisans, and Laborers -- Intelligent Curiosity
     of the Nation -- Exasperating Anachronisms -- Contrast of
     Demand and Resources -- The Great Nobles a Barrier to Reform
     -- Mistakes of the King -- The Estates Meet at Versailles --
     The Court Party Provokes Violence -- Downfall of Feudal
     Privilege.

[Sidenote: 1787-89.]

At last the ideas of the century had declared open war on its institutions; their moral conquest
was already coextensive with central and western Europe, but the first efforts toward their
realization were to be made in France, for the reason that the line of least resistance was
to be found not through the most downtrodden, but through the freest and the best instructed
nation on the Continent. Both the clergy and the nobility of France had become accustomed to
the absorption in the crown of their ancient feudal power. They were content with the great
offices in the church, in the army, and in the civil administration, with exemption from the
payment of taxes; they were happy in the delights of literature and the fine arts, in the joys
of a polite, self-indulgent, and spendthrift society, so artificial and conventional that for
most of its members a sufficient occupation was found in the study and exposition of its trivial
but complex customs. The conduct and maintenance of a salon, the stage, gallantry; clothes,
table manners, the use of the fan: these are specimens of what were considered not the incidents
but the essentials of life.

