"Of course," she said, "I used to see conspicuous-looking women at the race-track in New Orleans;
I've sat near them in restaurants, I've known by my mother's looks and her agitation that they
must be bad women. But you see, I didn't know what it meant--I had nothing but a vague feeling
of something dreadful." 

I smiled. "Then Lady Dee did not tell you everything about the possibilities of her system
of 'charm.'" 

"No," said Sylvia. "Evidently she didn't!" She sat staring at me, trying to get up the courage
to go on with this plain speaking. 

And at last the courage came. "I think it is wrong," she exclaimed. "Girls ought not to be
kept so ignorant! They ought to know what such things mean. Why, I didn't even know what marriage
meant!" 

"Can that be true?" I asked. 

"All my life I had thought of marriage, in a way; I had been trained to think of it with every
eligible man I met--but to me it meant a home, a place of my own to entertain people in. I
pictured myself going driving with my husband, giving dinner-parties to his friends. I knew
I'd have to let him kiss me, but beyond that--I had a vague idea of something, but I didn't
think. I had been deliberately trained not to let myself think--to run away from every image
that came to me. And I went on dreaming of what I'd wear, and how I'd greet my husband when
he came home in the evening." 

"Didn't you think about children?" 

"Yes--but I thought of the CHILDREN. I thought what they'd look like, and how they'd talk,
and how I'd love them. I don't know if many young girls shut their minds up like that." 

She was speaking with agitation, and I was gazing into her eyes, reading more than she knew
I was reading. I was nearer to solving the problem that had been baffling me. And I wanted
to take her hands in mine, and say: "You would never have married him if you'd understood!" 

22. Sylvia thought she ought to have been taught, but when she came to think of it she was
unable to suggest who could have done the teaching. "Your mother?" I asked, and she had to
laugh, in spite of the seriousness of her mood. "Poor dear mamma! When they sent me up here
to boarding school, she took me off and tried to tell me not to listen to vulgar talk from
the girls. She managed to make it clear that I mustn't listen to something, and I managed not
to listen. I'm sure that even now she would rather have her tongue cut out than talk to me
about such things." 

"I talked to my children," I assured her. 

"And you didn't feel embarrassed?" 

"I did in the beginning--I had the same shrinkings to overcome. But I had a tragedy behind
me to push me on." 

I told her the story of my nephew, a shy and sensitive lad, who used to come to me for consolation,
and became as dear to me as my own children. When he was seventeen he grew moody and despondent;
he ran away from home for six months and more, and then returned and was forgiven--but that
seemed to make no difference. One night he came to see me, and I tried hard to get him to tell
me what was wrong. He wouldn't, but went away, and several hours later I found a letter he
had shoved under the table-cloth. I read it, and rushed out and hitched up a horse and drove
like mad to my brother-in-law's, but I got there too late, the poor boy had taken a shot-gun
to his room, and put the muzzle into his mouth, and set off the trigger with his foot. In the
letter he told me what was the matter--he had got into trouble with a woman of the town, and
had caught syphilis. He had gone away and tried to get cured, but had fallen into the hands
of a quack, who had taken all his money and left his health worse than ever, so in despair
and shame the poor boy had shot his head off.

I paused, uncertain if Sylvia would understand the story. "Do you know what syphilis is?" I asked. 

"I suppose--I have heard of what we call a 'bad disease'" she said. 

"It's a very bad disease. But if the words convey to you that it's a disease that bad people
get, I should tell you that most men take the chance of getting it; yet they are cruel enough
to despise those upon whom the ill-luck falls. My poor nephew had been utterly ignorant--I
found out that from his father, too late. An instinct had awakened in him of which he knew
absolutely nothing; his companions had taught him what it meant, and he had followed their
lead. And then had come the horror and the shame--and some vile, ignorant wretch to trade upon
it, and cast the boy off when he was penniless. So he had come home again, with his gnawing
secret; I pictured him wandering about, trying to make up his mind to confide in me, wavering
between that and the horrible deed he did." 

I stopped, because even to this day I cannot tell the story without tears. I cannot keep a
picture of the boy in my room, because of the self-reproaches that haunt me. "You can understand,"
I said to Sylvia, "I never could forget such a lesson. I swore a vow over the poor lad's body,
that I would never let a boy or girl that I could reach go out in ignorance into the world.
I read up on the subject, and for a while I was a sort of fanatic--I made people talk, young
people and old people. I broke down the taboos wherever I went, and while I shocked a good
many, I knew that I helped a good many more."

All that was, of course, inconceivable to Sylvia. How curious was the contrast of her one experience
in the matter of venereal disease. She told me how she had been instrumental in making a match
between her friend, Harriet Atkinson and a young scion of an ancient and haughty family of
Charleston, and how after the marriage her friend's health had begun to give way, until now
she was an utter wreck, living alone in a dilapidated antebellum mansion, seeing no one but
negro servants, and praying for death to relieve her of her misery. 

"Of course, I don't really know," said Sylvia. "Perhaps it was this--this disease that you
speak of. None of my people would tell me--I doubt if they really know themselves. It was just
before my own wedding, so you can understand it had a painful effect upon me. It happened that
I read something in a magazine, and I thought that--that possibly my fiancée--that someone
ought to ask him, you understand--" 

She stopped, and the blood was crimson in her cheeks, with the memory of her old excitement,
and some fresh excitement added to it. There are diseases of the mind as well as of the body,
and one of them is called prudery. 

"I can understand," I said. "It was certainly your right to be reassured on such a point." 

"Well, I tried to talk to my Aunt Varina about it; then I wrote to Uncle Basil, and asked him
to write to Douglas. At first he refused--he only consented to do it when I threatened to go
to my father." 

"What came of it in the end?" 

"Why, my uncle wrote, and Douglas answered very kindly that he understood, and that it was
all right--I had nothing to fear. I never expected to mention the incident to anyone again." 

"Lots of people have mentioned such things to me," I responded, to reassure her. Then after
a pause: "Tell me, how was it, if you didn't know the meaning of marriage, how could you connect
the disease with it?" 

She answered, gazing with the wide-open, innocent eyes: "I had no idea how people gave it to
each other. I thought maybe they got it by kissing." 

I thought to myself again: The horror of this superstition of prudery! Can one think of anything
more destructive to life than the placing of a taboo upon such matters? Here is the whole of
the future at stake--the health, the sanity, the very existence of the race. And what fiend
has been able to contrive it that we feel like criminals when we mention the subject? 

23. Our intimacy progressed, and the time came when Sylvia told me about her marriage. She
had accepted Douglas van Tuiver because she had lost Frank Shirley, and her heart was broken.
She could never imagine herself loving any other man; and not knowing exactly what marriage
meant, it had been easier for her to think of her family, and to follow their guidance. They
had told her that love would come; Douglas had implored her to give him a chance to teach her
to love him. She had considered what she could do with his money--both for her home-people
and for those she spoke of vaguely as "the poor." But now she was making the discovery that
she could not do very much for these "poor." 

"It isn't that my husband is mean," she said. "On the contrary, the slightest hint will bring
me any worldly thing I want. I have homes in half a dozen parts of America--I have carte blanche
to open accounts in two hemispheres. If any of my people need money I can get it; but if I
want it for myself, he asks me what I'm doing with it--and so I run into the stone-wall of
his ideas." 

At first the colliding with this wall had merely pained and bewildered her. But now the combination
of Veblen and myself had helped her to realize what it meant. Douglas van Tuiver spent his
money upon a definite system: whatever went to the maintaining of his social position, whatever
added to the glory, prestige and power of the van Tuiver name--that money was well-spent; while
money spent to any other end was money wasted--and this included all ideas and "causes." And
when the master of the house knew that his money was being wasted, it troubled him. 

"It wasn't until after I married him that I realized how idle his life is," she remarked. "At
home all the men have something to do, running their plantations, or getting elected to some
office. But Douglas never does anything that I can possibly think is useful." 

His fortune was invested in New York City real-estate, she went on to explain. There was an
office, with a small army of clerks and agents to attend to it--a machine which had been built
up and handed on to him by his ancestors. It sufficed if he dropped in for an hour or two once
a week when he was in the city, and signed a batch of documents now and then when he was away.
His life was spent in the company of people whom the social system had similarly deprived of
duties; and they had, by generations of experiment, built up for themselves a new set of duties,
a life which was wholly without relationship to reality. Into this unreal existence Sylvia
had married, and it was like a current sweeping her in its course. So long as she went with
it, all was well; but let her try to catch hold of something and stop, and it would tear her
loose and almost strangle her. 

As time went on, she gave me strange glimpses into this world. Her husband did not seem really
to enjoy its life. As Sylvia put it, "He takes it for granted that he has to do all the proper
things that the proper people do. He hates to be conspicuous, he says. I point out to him that
the proper things are nearly always conspicuous, but he replies that to fail to do them would
be even more conspicuous." 

It took me a long time to get really acquainted with Sylvia, because of the extent to which
this world was clamouring for her. I used to drop in when she 'phoned me she had half an hour.
I would find her dressing for something, and she would send her maid away, and we would talk
until she would be late for some function; and that might be a serious matter, because somebody
would feel slighted. She was always "on pins and needles" over such questions of precedent;
it seemed as if everybody in her world must be watching everybody else. There was a whole elaborate
science of how to treat the people you met, so that they would not feel slighted--or so that
they would feel slighted, according to circumstances. 

To the enjoyment of such a life it was essential that the person should believe in it. Douglas
van Tuiver did believe in it; it was his religion, the only one he had. (Churchman as he was,
his church was a part of the social routine.) He was proud of Sylvia, and apparently satisfied
when he could take her at his side; and Sylvia went, because she was his wife, and that was
what wives were for. She had tried her best to be happy; she had told herself that she was
happy yet all the time realizing that a woman who is really happy does not have to tell herself. 

Earlier in life she had quaffed and enjoyed the wine of applause. I recollect vividly her telling
me of the lure her beauty had been to her--the most terrible temptation that could come to
a woman. "I walk into a brilliant room, and I feel the thrill of admiration that goes through
the crowd. I have a sudden sense of my own physical perfection--a glow all over me! I draw
a deep breath--I feel a surge of exaltation. I say, 'I am victorious--I can command! I have
this supreme crown of womanly grace--I am all-powerful with it--the world is mine!'" 

As she spoke the rapture was in her voice, and I looked at her--and yes, she was beautiful!
The supreme crown was hers! 

"I see other beautiful women," she went on--and swift anger came into her voice. "I see what
they are doing with this power! Gratifying their vanity--turning men into slaves of their whim!
Squandering money upon empty pleasures--and with the dreadful plague of poverty spreading in
the world! I used to go to my father, 'Oh, papa, why must there be so many poor people? Why
should we have servants--why should they have to wait on me, and I do nothing for them?' He
would try to explain to me that it was the way of Nature. Mamma would tell me it was the will
of the Lord--'The poor ye have always with you'--'Servants, obey your masters'--and so on.
But in spite of the Bible texts, I felt guilty. And now I come to Douglas with the same plea--and
it only makes him angry! He has been to college and has a lot of scientific phrases--he tells
me it's 'the struggle for existence,' 'the elimination of the unfit'--and so on. I say to him,
'First we make people unfit, and then we have to eliminate them.' He cannot see why I do not
accept what learned people tell me--why I persist in questioning and suffering." 

She paused, and then added, "It's as if he were afraid I might find out something he doesn't
want me to! He's made me give him a promise that I won't see Mrs. Frothingham again!" And she
laughed. "I haven't told him about you!"

I answered, needless to say, that I hoped she would keep the secret!

24. All this time I was busy with my child-labour work. We had an important bill before the
legislature that session, and I was doing what I could to work up sentiment for it. I talked
at every gathering where I could get a hearing; I wrote letters to newspapers; I sent literature
to lists of names. I racked my mind for new schemes, and naturally, at such times, I could
not help thinking of Sylvia. How much she could do, if only she would! 

I spared no one, least of all myself, and so it was not easy to spare her. The fact that I
had met her was the gossip of the office, and everybody was waiting for something to happen.
"How about Mrs. van Tuiver?" my "chief" would ask, at intervals. "If she would only go on our
press committee" my stenographer would sigh. 

The time came when our bill was in committee, a place of peril for bills. I went to Albany
to see what could be done. I met half a hundred legislators, of whom perhaps half-a-dozen had
some human interest in my subject; the rest, well, it was discouraging. Where was the force
that would stir them, make them forget their own particular little grafts, and serve the public
welfare in defiance to hostile interests? 

Where was it? I came back to New York to look for it, and after a blue luncheon with the members
of our committee, I came away with my mind made up--I would sacrifice my Sylvia to this desperate
emergency. 

I knew just what I had to do. So far she had heard speeches about social wrongs, or read books
about them; she had never been face to face with the reality of them. Now I persuaded her to
take a morning off, and see some of the sights of the underworld of toil. We foreswore the
royal car, and likewise the royal furs and velvets; she garbed herself in plain appearing dark
blue and went down town in the Subway like common mortals, visiting paper-box factories and
flower factories, tenement homes where whole families sat pasting toys and gimcracks for fourteen
or sixteen hours a day, and still could not buy enough food to make full-sized men and women
of them. 

She was Dante, and I was Virgil, our inferno was an endless procession of tortured faces--faces
of women, haggard and mournful, faces of little children, starved and stunted, dulled and dumb.
Several times we stopped to talk with these people--one little Jewess girl I knew whose three
tiny sisters had been roasted alive in a sweatshop fire. This child had jumped from a fourth-story
window, and been miraculously caught by a fireman. She said that some man had started the fire,
and been caught, but the police had let him get away. So I had to explain to Sylvia that curious
bye-product (sic) of the profit system known as the "Arson Trust." Authorities estimated that
incendiarism was responsible for the destruction of a quarter of a billion dollars worth of
property in America every year. So, of course, the business of starting fires was a paying
one, and the "fire-bug," like the "cadet" and the dive-keeper, was a part of the "system."
So it was quite a possible thing that the man who had burned up this little girl's three sisters
might have been allowed to escape. 

I happened to say this in the little girl's hearing, and I saw her pitiful strained eyes fixed
upon Sylvia. Perhaps this lovely, soft-voiced lady was a fairy god-mother, come to free her
sisters from an evil spell and to punish the wicked criminal! I saw Sylvia turn her head away,
and search for her handkerchief; as we groped our way down the dark stairs, she caught my hand,
whispering: "Oh, my God! my God!" 

It had even more effect than I had intended; not only did she say that she would do something--anything
that would be of use--but she told me as we rode back home that her mind was made up to stop
the squandering of her husband's money. He had been planning a costume ball for a couple of
months later, an event which would keep the van Tuiver name in condition, and would mean that
he and other people would spend many hundreds of thousands of dollars. As we rode home in the
roaring Subway, Sylvia sat beside me, erect and tense, saying that if the ball were given,
it would be without the presence of the hostess. 

I struck while the iron was hot, and got her permission to put her name upon our committee
list. She said, moreover, that she would get some free time, and be more than a mere name to
us. What were the duties of a member of our committee? 

"First," I said, "to know the facts about child-labour, as you have seen them to-day, and second,
to help other people to know." 

"And how is that to be done?" 

"Well, for instance, there is that hearing before the legislative committee. You remember I
suggested that you appear." 

"Yes," she said in a low voice. I could almost hear the words that were in her mind: "What
would he say?" 

25. Sylvia's name went upon our letter-heads and other literature, and almost at once things
began to happen. In a day or two there came a reporter, saying he had noticed her name. Was
it true that she had become interested in our work? Would I please give him some particulars,
as the public would naturally want to know. 

I admitted that Mrs. van Tuiver had joined the committee; she approved of our work and desired
to further it. That was all. He asked: Would she give an interview? And I answered that I was
sure she would not. Then would I tell something about how she had come to be interested in
the work? It was a chance to assist our propaganda, added the reporter, diplomatically. 

I retired to another room, and got Sylvia upon the 'phone, "The time has come for you to take
the plunge," I said. 

"Oh, but I don't want to be in the papers!" she cried "Surely, you wouldn't advise it!" 

"I don't see how you can avoid having something appear. Your name is given out, and if the
man can't get anything else, he'll take our literature, and write up your doings out of his
imagination." 

"And they'll print my picture with it!" she exclaimed. I could not help laughing. "It's quite
possible." 

"Oh, what will my husband do? He'll say 'I told you so!'" 

It is a hard thing to have one's husband say that, as I knew by bitter experience. But I did
not think that reason enough for giving up. 

"Let me have time to think it over," said Sylvia. "Get him to wait till to-morrow, and meantime
I can see you." 

So it was arranged. I think I told Sylvia the truth when I said that I had never before heard
of a committee member who was unwilling to have his purposes discussed in the newspapers. To
influence newspapers was one of the main purposes of committees, and I did not see how she
could expect either editors or readers to take any other view. 

"Let me tell the man about your trip down town," I suggested, "then I can go on to discuss
the bill and how it bears on the evils you saw. Such a statement can't possibly do you harm." 

She consented, but with the understanding that she was not to be quoted directly. "And don't
let them make me picturesque!" she exclaimed. "That's what my husband seems most to dread." 

I wondered if he didn't think she was picturesque, when she sat in a splendid, shining coach,
and took part in a public parade through Central Park. But I did not say this. I went off,
and swore my reporter to abstain from the "human touch," and he promised and kept his word.
There appeared next morning a dignified "write-up" of Mrs. Douglas van Tuiver's interest in
child-labour reform. Quoting me, it described some of the places she had visited, and some
of the sights which had shocked her; it went on to tell about our committee and its work, the
status of our bill in the legislature, the need of activity on the part of our friends if the
measure was to be forced through at this session. It was a splendid "boost" for our work, and
everyone in the office was in raptures over it. The social revolution was at hand! thought
my young stenographer. 

But the trouble with this business of publicity is that, however carefully you control your
interviewer, you cannot control the others who use his material. The "afternoon men" came round
for more details, and they made it clear that it was personal details they wanted. And when
I side-stepped their questions, they went off and made up answers to suit themselves, and printed
Sylvia's pictures, together with photographs of child-workers taken from our pamphlets.

I called Sylvia up while she was dressing for dinner, to explain that I was not responsible
for any of this picturesqueness. "Oh, perhaps I am to blame myself!" she exclaimed. "I think
I interviewed a reporter." 

"How do you mean?" 

"A woman sent up her card--she told the footman she was a friend of mine. And I thought--I
couldn't be sure if I'd met her--so I went and saw her. She said she'd met me at Mrs. Harold
Cliveden's, and she began to talk to me about child-labour, and this and that plan she had,
and what did I think of them, and suddenly it flashed over me: 'Maybe this is a reporter playing
a trick on me!'" 

I hurried out before breakfast next morning and got all the papers, to see what this enterprising
lady had done. There was nothing, so I reflected that probably she had been a "Sunday" lady. 

But then, when I reached my office, the 'phone rang, and I heard the voice of Sylvia: "Mary,
something perfectly dreadful has happened!" 

"What?" I cried. 

"I can't tell you over the 'phone, but a certain person is furiously angry. Can I see you if
I come down right away?" 

26. Such terrors as these were unguessed by me in the days of my obscurity. Uneasy lies the
head that wears a crown, uneasy also, lies the wife of that head, and the best friend of the
wife. I dismissed my stenographer, and spent ten or fifteen restless minutes until Sylvia appeared.

Her story was quickly told. A couple of hours ago the acting-manager of Mr. van Tuiver's office
had telephoned to ask if he might call upon a matter of importance. He had come. Naturally,
he had the most extreme reluctance to say anything which might seem to criticise the activities
of Mr. van Tuiver's wife, but there was something in the account in the newspapers which should
be brought to her husband's attention. The articles gave the names and locations of a number
of firms in whose factories it was alleged that Mrs. van Tuiver had found unsatisfactory conditions,
and it happened that two of these firms were located in premises which belonged to the van
Tuiver estates! 

A story coming very close to melodrama, I perceived. I sat dismayed at what I had done. "Of
course, dear girl," I said, at last, "you understand that I had no idea who owned these buildings."

"Oh, don't say that!" exclaimed Sylvia. "I am the one who should have known!" 

Then for a long time I sat still and let her suffer. "Tenement sweat-shops! Little children
in factories!" I heard her whisper. 

At last I put my hand on hers. "I tried to put it off for a while," I said. "But I knew it
would have to come." 

"Think of me!" she exclaimed, "going about scolding other people for the way they make their
money! When I thought of my own, I had visions of palatial hotels and office-buildings--everything
splendid and clean!" 

"Well, my dear, you've learned now, and you will be able to do something--" 

She turned upon me suddenly, and for the first time I saw in her face the passions of tragedy.
"Do you believe I will be able to do anything? No! Don't have any such idea!" 

I was struck dumb. She got up and began to pace the room. "Oh, don't make any mistake, I've
paid for my great marriage in the last hour or two. To think that he cares about nothing save
the possibility of being found out and made ridiculous! All his friends have been 'muckraked,'
as he calls it, and he has sat aloft and smiled over their plight; he was the landed gentleman,
the true aristrocrat, whom the worries of traders and money-changers didn't concern. Now perhaps
he's caught, and his name is to be dragged in the mire, and it's my flightiness, my lack of
commonsense that has done it!" 

"I shouldn't let that trouble me," I said. "You could not know--" 

"Oh, it's not that! It's that I hadn't a single courageous word to say to him--not a hint that
he ought to refuse to wring blood-money from sweat-shops! I came away without having done it,
because I couldn't face his anger, because it would have meant a quarrel!" 

"My dear," I said gently, "it is possible to survive a quarrel." 

"No, you don't understand! We should never make it up again, I know--I saw it in his words,
in his face. He will never change to please me, no, not even a simple thing like the business-methods
of the van Tuiver estates." 

I could not help smiling. "My dear Sylvia! A simple thing!" 

She came and sat beside me. "That's what I want to talk about. It is time I was growing up.
It it time that I knew about these things. Tell me about them." 

"What, my dear?" 

"About the methods of the van Tuiver estates, that can't be changed to please me. I made out
one thing, we had recently paid a fine for some infraction of the law in one of those buildings,
and my husband said it was because we had refused to pay more money to a tenement-house inspector.
I asked him: 'Why should we pay any money at all to a tenement-house inspector? Isn't it bribery?'
He answered: 'It's a custom--the same as you give a tip to a hotel waiter.' Is that true?"

I could not help smiling. "Your husband ought to know, my dear," I said. 

I saw her compress her lips. "What is the tip for?" 

"I suppose it is to keep out of trouble with him." 

"But why can't we keep out of trouble by obeying the law?" 

"My dear, sometimes the law is inconvenient, and sometimes it is complicated and obscure. It
might be that you are violating it without knowing the fact. It might be uncertain whether
you are violating it or not, so that to settle the question would mean a lot of expense and
publicity. It might even be that the law is impossible to obey--that it was not intended to
be obeyed." 

"What do you mean by that?" 

"I mean, maybe it was passed to put you at the mercy of the politicians." 

"But," she protested, "that would be blackmail." 

"The phrase," I replied, "is 'strike-legislation.'" 

"But at least, that wouldn't be our fault!" 

"No, not unless you had begun it. It generally happens that the landlord discovers it's a good
thing to have politicians who will work with him. Maybe he wants his assessments lowered; maybe
he wants to know where new car lines are to go, so that he can buy intelligently; maybe he
wants the city to improve his neighbourhood; maybe he wants influence at court when he has
some heavy damage suit." 

"So we bribe everyone!" 

"Not necessarily. You may simply wait until campaign-time, and then make your contribution
to the machine. That is the basis of the 'System.'." 

"The 'System '?" 

"A semi-criminal police-force, and everything that pays tribute to it; the saloon and the dive,
the gambling hell the white-slave market, and the Arson trust." 

I saw a wild look in her eyes. "Tell me, do you know that all these things are true? Or are
you only guessing about them?" 

"My dear Sylvia," I answered, "you said it was time you grew up. For the present I will tell
you this: Several months before I met you, I made a speech in which I named some of the organised
forces of evil in the city. One was Tammany Hall, and another was the Traction Trust, and another
was the Trinity Church Corporation, and yet another was the van Tuiver estates." 

27. The following Sunday there appeared a "magazine story" of an interview with the infinitely
beautiful young wife of the infinitely rich Mr. Douglas van Tuiver, in which the views of the
wife on the subject of child-labour were liberally interlarded with descriptions of her reception-room
and her morning-gown. But mere picturesqueness by that time had been pretty well discounted
in our minds. So long as the article did not say anything about the ownership of child-labour
tenements! 

I did not see Sylvia for several weeks after that. I took it for granted that she would want
some time to get herself together and make up her mind about the future. I did not feel anxious;
the seed had sprouted, and I felt sure it would continue to grow. 

Then one day she called me up, asking if I could come to see her. I suggested that afternoon,
and she said she was having tea with some people at the Palace Hotel, and could I come there
just after tea-time? I remember the place and the hour, because of the curious adventure into
which I got myself. One hears the saying, when unexpected encounters take place, "How small
the world is!" But I thought the world was growing really too small when I went into a hotel
tea-room to wait for Sylvia, and found myself face to face with Claire Lepage! 

The place appointed had been the "orange-room"; I stood in the door-way, sweeping the place
with my eyes, and I saw Mrs. van Tuiver at the same moment that she saw me. She was sitting
at a table with several other people and she nodded, and I took a seat to wait. From my position
I could watch her, in animated conversation; and she could send me a smile now and then. So
I was decidedly startled when I heard a voice, "Why, how do you do?" and looked up and saw
Claire holding out her hand to me. 

"Well, for heaven's sake!" I exclaimed. 

"You don't come to see me any more," she said. 

"Why, no--no, I've been busy of late." So much I managed to ejaculate, in spite of my confusion. 

"You seem surprised to see me," she remarked--observant as usual, and sensitive to other people's
attitude to her. 

"Why, naturally," I said. And then, recollecting that it was not in the least natural--since
she spent a good deal of her time in such places--I added, "I was looking for someone else." 

"May I do in the meantime?" she inquired, taking a seat beside me. "What are you so busy about?" 

"My child-labour work," I answered. Then, in an instant, I was sorry for the words, thinking
she must have read about Sylvia's activities. I did not want her to know that I had met Sylvia,
for it would mean a flood of questions, which I did not want to answer--nor yet to refuse to
answer. 

But my fear was needless. "I've been out of town," she said. 

"Whereabouts?" I asked, making conversation. 

"A little trip to Bermuda." 

My mind was busy with the problem of getting rid of her. It would be intolerable to have Sylvia
come up to us; it was intolerable to know that they were in sight of each other. 

Even as the thought came to me, however, I saw Claire start. "Look!" she exclaimed. 

"What is it?" 

"That woman there--in the green velvet! The fourth table." 

"I see her." 

"Do you know who she is?" 

"Who?" (I remembered Lady Dee's maxim about lying!) 

"Sylvia Castleman!" whispered Claire. (She always referred to her thus--seeming to say, "I'm
as much van Tuiver as she is!") 

"Are you sure?" I asked--in order to say something. 

"I've seen her a score of times. I seem to be always running into her. That's Freddie Atkins
she's talking to." 

"Indeed!" said I. 

"I know most of the men I see her with. But I have to walk by as if I'd never seen them. A
queer world we live in, isn't it?" 

I could assent cordially to that proposition. "Listen," I broke in, quickly. "Have you got
anything to do? If not, come down to the Royalty and have tea with me." 

"Why not have it here?" 

"I've been waiting for someone from there, and I have to leave a message. Then I'll be free." 

She rose, to my vast relief, and we walked out. I could feel Sylvia's eyes following me; but
I dared not try to send her a message--I would have to make up some explanation afterwards.
"Who was your well-dressed friend?" I could imagine her asking; but my mind was more concerned
with the vision of what would happen if, in full sight of her companion, Mr. Freddie Atkins,
she were to rise and walk over to Claire and myself! 

28. Seated in the palm-room of the other hotel, I sipped a cup of tea which I felt I had earned,
while Claire had a little glass of the fancy-coloured liquids which the ladies in these places
affect. The room was an aviary, with tropical plants and splashing fountains--and birds of
many gorgeous hues; I gazed from one to another of the splendid creatures, wondering how many
of them were paying for their plumage in the same way as my present companion. It would have
taken a more practiced eye than mine to say which, for if I had been asked, I would have taken
Claire for a diplomat's wife. She had not less than a thousand dollars' worth of raiment upon
her, and its style made clear to all the world the fact that it had not been saved over from
a previous season of prosperity. She was a fine creature, who could carry any amount of sail;
with her bold, black eyes she looked thoroughly competent, and it was hard to believe in the
fundamental softness of her character. 

I sat, looking about me, annoyed at having missed Sylvia, and only half listening to Claire.
But suddenly she brought me to attention. "Well," she said, "I've met him." 

"Met whom?" 

"Douglas." 

I stared at her. "Douglas van Tuiver?" 

She nodded; and I suppressed a cry. 

"I told you he'd come back," she added, with a laugh. 

"You mean he came to see you?" 

I could not hide my concern. But there was no need to, for it flattered Claire's vanity. "No--not
yet, but he will. I met him at Jack Taylor's--at a supper-party." 

"Did he know you were to be there?" 

"No. But he didn't leave when he saw me." 

There was a pause. I could not trust myself to say anything. But Claire had no intention of
leaving me curious. "I don't think he's happy with her," she remarked. 

"What makes you say that?" 

"Oh, several things. I know him, you know. He wouldn't say he was." 

"Perhaps he didn't want to discuss it with you." 

"Oh, no--not that. He isn't reserved with me." 

"I should think it was dangerous to discuss one's wife under such circumstances," I laughed. 

Claire laughed also. "You should have heard what Jack had to say about his wife! She's down
at Palm Beach." 

"She'd better come home," I ventured. 

"He was telling what a dance she leads him; she raises Cain if a woman looks at him--and she
damns every woman he meets before the woman has a chance to look. Jack said marriage was hell--just
hell. Reggie Channing thought it was like a pair of old slippers that you got used to." Jack
laughed and answered, "You're at the stage where you think you can solve the marriage problem
by deceiving your wife!" 

I made no comment. Claire sat for a while, busy with her thoughts; then she repeated, "He wouldn't
say he was happy! And he misses me, too. When he was going, I held his hand, and said: 'Well,
Douglas, how goes it?'"

"And then?" I asked; but she would not say any more. 

I waited a while, and then began, "Claire, let him alone. Give them a chance to be happy." 

"Why should I?" she demanded, in a voice of hostility. 

"She never harmed you," I said. I knew I was being foolish, but I would do what I could. 

"She took him away from me, didn't she?" And Claire's eyes were suddenly alight with the hatred
of her outcast class. "Why did she get him? Why is she Mrs. van Tuiver, and I nobody? Because
her father was rich, because she had power and position, while I had to scratch for myself
in the world. Is that true, or isn't it?" 

I could not deny that it might be part of the truth. "But they're married now," I said, "and
he loves her." 

"He loves me, too. And I love him still, in spite of the way he's treated me. He's the only
man I ever really loved. Do you think I'm going off and hide in a hole, while she spends his
money and plays the princess up and down the Avenue? Not much!" 

I fell silent. Should I set out upon another effort at "moulding water"? Should I give Claire
one more scolding--tell her, perhaps, how her very features were becoming hard and ugly, as
a result of the feelings she was harbouring? Should I recall the pretences of generosity and
dignity she had made when we first met? I might have attempted this--but something held me
back. After all, the one person who could decide this issue was Douglas van Tuiver. 

I rose. "Well, I have to be going. But I'll drop round now and then, and see what success you
have." 

She became suddenly important. "Maybe I won't tell!" 

To which I answered, indifferently, "All right, it's your secret." But I went off without much
worry over that part of it. Claire must have some one to whom to recount her troubles--or her
triumphs, as the case might be. 

29. I had my talk with Sylvia a day or two later, and made my excuse--a friend from the West
who had been going out of town in a few hours later. 

The seed had been growing, I found. Ever since we had last met, her life had consisted of arguments
over the costume-ball on which her husband had set his heart, and at which she had refused
to play the hostess. 

"Of course, he's right about one thing," she remarked. "We can't stay in New York unless we
give some big affair. Everyone expects it, and there is no explanation except one he could
not offer." 

"I've made a big breach in your life, Sylvia," I said. 

"It wasn't all you. This unhappiness has been in me--it's been like a boil, and you've been
the poultice." (She had four younger brothers and sisters, so these domestic similes came naturally.)

"Boils," I remarked, "are disfiguring, when they come to a head." 

There was a pause. "How is your child-labour bill?" she asked, abruptly. 

"Why, it's all right." 

"Didn't I see a letter in the paper saying it had been referred to a sub-committee, some trick
to suppress it for this session?" 

I could not answer. I had been hoping she had not seen that letter. 

"If I were to come forward now," she said, "I could possibly block that move, couldn't I?" 

Still I said nothing. 

"If I were to take a bold stand--I mean if I were to speak at a public meeting, and denounce
the move." 

"I suppose you could," I had to admit. 

For a long time she sat with her head bowed. "The children will have to wait," she said, at
last, half to herself. 

"My dear," I answered (What else was there to answer?) "the children have waited a long time." 

"I hate to turn back--to have you say I'm a coward--" 

"I won't say that, Sylvia." 

"You will be too kind, no doubt, but that will be the truth." 

I tried to reassure her. But the acids I had used--intended for tougher skins than hers--had
burned into the very bone, and now it was not possible to stop their action. "I must make you
understand," she said, "how serious a thing it seems to me for a wife to stand out against
her husband. I've been brought up to feel that it was the most terrible thing a woman could do." 

She stopped, and when she went on again her face was set like one enduring pain. "So this is
the decision to which I have come. If I do anything of a public nature now, I drive my husband
from me; on the other hand, if I take a little time, I may be able to save the situation. I
need to educate myself, and I'm hoping I may be able to educate him at the same time. If I
can get him to read something--if it's only a few paragraphs everyday--I may gradually change
his point of view, so that he will tolerate what I believe. At any rate, I ought to try; I
am sure that is the wise and kind and fair thing to do." 

"What will you do about the ball?" I asked. 

"I am going to take him away, out of this rush and distraction, this dressing and undressing,
hurrying about meeting people and chattering about nothing." 

"He is willing?" 

"Yes; in fact, he suggested it himself. He thinks my mind is turned, with all the things I've
been reading, and with Mrs. Frothingham, and Mrs. Allison, and the rest. He hopes that if I
go away, I may quiet down and come to my senses. We have a good excuse. I have to think of
my health just now---" 

She stopped, and looked away from my eyes. I saw the colour spreading in a slow wave over her
cheeks; it was like those tints of early dawn that are so ravishing to the souls of poets.
"In four or five months from now---" And she stopped again. 

I put my big hand gently over her small one. "I have three children of my own," I said. 

"So," she went on, "it won't seem so unreasonable. Some people know, and the rest will guess,
and there won't be any talk--I mean, such as there would be if it was rumoured that Mrs. Douglas
van Tuiver had got interested in Socialism, and refused to spend her husband's money." 

"I understand," I replied. "It's quite the most sensible thing, and I'm glad you've found a
way out. I shall miss you, of course, but we can write each other long letters. Where are you
going?" 

"I'm not absolutely sure. Douglas suggests a cruise in the West Indies, but I think I should
rather be settled in one place. He has a lovely house in the mountains of North Carolina, and
wants me to go there; but it's a show-place, with rich homes all round, and I know I'd soon
be in a social whirl. I thought of the camp in the Adirondacks. It would be glorious to see
the real woods in winter; but I lose my nerve when I think of the cold--I was brought up in
a warm place." 

"A 'camp' sounds rather primitive for one in your condition," I suggested. 

"That's because you haven't been there. In reality it's a big house, with twenty-five rooms,
and steam-heat and electric lights, and half a dozen men to take care of it when it's empty--as
it has been for several years." 

I smiled--for I could read her thought. "Are you going to be unhappy because you can't occupy
all your husband's homes?" 

"There's one other I prefer," she continued, unwilling to be made to smile. "They call it a
'fishing lodge,' and it's down in the Florida Keys. They're putting a railroad through there,
but meantime you can only get to it by a launch. From the pictures, it's the most heavenly
spot imaginable. Fancy running about those wonderful green waters in a motor-boat!" 

"It sounds quite alluring," I replied. "But isn't it remote for you?" 

"We're not so very far from Key West; and my husband means to have a physician with us in any
case. The advantage of being in a small place is that we couldn't entertain if we wanted to.
I can have my Aunt Varina come to stay with me, a dear, sweet soul who loves me devotedly;
and then if I find I have to have some new ideas, perhaps you can come---" 

"I don't think your husband would favour that," I said. 

She put her hand out to me in a quick gesture. "I don't mean to give up our friendship! I want
you to understand, I intend to go on studying and growing. I am doing what he asked me--it's
right that I should think of his wishes, and of the health of my child. But the child will
be growing up, and sooner or later my husband must grant me the right to think, to have a life
of my own. You must stand by me and help me, whatever happens." 

I gave her my hand on that, and so we parted--for some time, as it proved. I went up to Albany
once more, in a last futile effort to save our precious bill; and while I was there I got a
note from her, saying that she was leaving for the Florida Keys. 

BOOK II 

SYLVIA AS MOTHER 

For three months after this I had nothing but letters from Sylvia. She proved to be an excellent
letter-writer, full of verve and colour. I would not say that she poured out her soul to me,
but she gave me glimpses of her states of mind, and the progress of her domestic drama. 

First, she described the place to which she had come; a ravishing spot, where any woman ought
to be happy. It was a little island, fringed with a border of cocoanut-palms, which rustled
and whispered day and night in the breeze. It was covered with tropical foliage, and there
was a long, rambling bungalow, with screened "galleries," and a beach of hard white sand in
front. The water was blue, dazzling with sunshine, and dotted with distant green islands; all
of it, air, water, and islands, were warm. "I don't realize till I get here," she said, "I
am never really happy in the North. I wrap myself against the assaults of a cruel enemy. But
here I am at home; I cast off my furs, I stretch out my arms, I bloom. I believe I shall quite
cease to think for a while--I shall forget all storms and troubles, and bask on the sand like
a lizard. 

"And the water! Mary, you cannot imagine such water; why should it be blue on top, and green
when you look down into it? I have a little skiff of my own in which I drift, and I have been
happy for hours, studying the bottom; you see every colour of the rainbow, and all as clear
as in an aquarium. I have been fishing, too, and have caught a tarpon. That is supposed to
be a great adventure, and it really is quite thrilling to feel the monstrous creature struggling
with you--though, of course, my arms soon gave out, and I had to turn him over to my husband.
This is one of the famous fishing-grounds of the world, and I am glad of that, because it will
keep the men happy while I enjoy the sunshine. 

"I have discovered a fascinating diversion," she wrote, in a second letter. "I make them take
me in the launch to one of the loneliest of the keys; they go off to fish, and I have the whole
day to myself, and am as happy as a child on a picnic! I roam the beach, I take off my shoes
and stockings--there are no newspaper reporters snapping pictures. I dare not go far in, for
there are huge black creatures with dangerous stinging tails; they rush away in a cloud of
sand when I approach, but the thought of stepping upon one by accident is terrifying. However,
I let the little wavelets wash round my toes, and I try to grab little fish, and I pick up
lovely shells; and then I go on, and I see a huge turtle waddling to the water, and I dash
up, and would stop him if I dared, and then I find his eggs--such an adventure! 

"I am the prey of strange appetites and cravings. I have a delicious luncheon with me, but
suddenly the one thing in the world I want to eat is turtle-eggs. I have no matches with me,
and I do not know how to build a fire like the Indians, so I have to hide the eggs back in
the sand until to-morrow. I hope the turtle does not move them--and that I have not lost my
craving in the meantime! 

"Then I go exploring inland. These islands were once the haunts of pirates, so I may imagine
all sorts of romantic things. What I find are lemon-trees. I do not know if they are wild,
or if the key was once cultivated; the lemons are huge in size, and nearly all skin, but the
flavour is delicious. Turtle-eggs with wild lemon-juice! And then I go on and come to a mangrove-swamp--dark
and forbidding, a grisly place; you imagine the trees are in torment, with limbs and roots
tangled like writhing serpents. I tiptoe in a little way, and then get frightened, and run
back to the beach. 

"I see on the sand a mysterious little yellow creature, running like the wind; I make a dash,
and get between him and his hole; and so he stands, crouching on guard, staring at me, and
I at him. He is some sort of crab, but he stands on two legs like a caricature of a man; he
has two big weapons upraised for battle, and staring black eyes stuck out on long tubes. He
is an uncanny thing to look at; but then suddenly the idea comes, How do I seem to him? I realize
that he is alive; a tiny mite of hunger for life, of fear and resolution. I think, How lonely
he must be! And I want to tell him that I love him, and would not hurt him for the world; but
I have no way to make him understand me, and all I can do is to go away and leave him. I go,
thinking what a strange place the world is, with so many living things, each shut away apart
by himself, unable to understand the others or make the others understand him. This is what
is called philosophy, is it not? Tell me some books where these things are explained.... 

"I am reading all you sent me. When I grew tired of exploring the key, I lay down in the shade
of a palm-tree, and read--guess what? 'Number Five John Street'! So all this loveliness vanished,
and I was back in the world's nightmare. An extraordinary book! I decided that it would be
good for my husband, so I read him a few paragraphs; but I found that it only irritated him.
He wants me to rest, he says--he can't see why I've come away to the Florida Keys to read about
the slums of London. 

"My hope of gradually influencing his mind has led to a rather appalling discovery--that he
has the same intention as regards me! He too has brought a selection of books, and reads to
me a few pages every day, and explains what they mean. He calls this resting! I am no match
for him, of course--I never realized more keenly the worthlessness of my education. But I see
in a general way where his arguments tend--that life is something that has grown, and is not
in the power of men to change; but even if he could convince me of this, I should not find
it a source of joy. I have a feeling always that if you were here, you would know something
to answer. 

"The truth is that I am so pained by the conflict between us that I cannot argue at all. I
find myself wondering what our marriage would have been like if we had discovered that we had
the same ideas and interests. There are days and nights at a time when I tell myself that I
ought to believe what my husband believes, that I ought never have allowed myself to think
of anything else. But that really won't do as a life-programme; I tried it years ago with my
dear mother and father. Did I ever tell you that my mother is firmly convinced in her heart
that I am to suffer eternally in a real hell of fire because I do not believe certain things
about the Bible? She still has visions of it--though not so bad since she turned me over to
a husband! 

"Now it is my husband who is worried about my ideas. He is reading a book by Burke, a well-known
old writer. The book deals with English history, which I don't know much about, but I see that
it resents modern changes, and the whole spirit of change. And Mary, why can't I feel that
way? I really ought to love those old and stately things, I ought to be reverent to the past;
I was brought up that way. Sometimes I tremble when I realize how very flippant and cynical
I am. I seem to see the wrong side of everything, so that I couldn't believe in it if I wanted
to!" 

2. Her letters were full of the wonders of Nature about her. There was a snow-white egret who
made his home upon her island; she watched his fishing operations, and meant to find his nest,
so as to watch his young. The men made a trip into the Everglades, and brought back wonder-tales
of flocks of flamingoes making scarlet clouds in the sky, huge colonies of birds' nests crowded
like a city. They had brought home a young one, which screamed all day to be stuffed with fish. 

A cousin of Sylvia's, Harley Chilton, had come to visit her. He had taken van Tuiver on hunting-trips
during the latter's courtship days, and now was a good fishing-companion. He was not allowed
to discover the state of affairs between Sylvia and her husband, but he saw his cousin reading
serious books, and his contribution to the problem was to tell her that she would get wrinkles
in her face, and that even her feet would grow big, like those of the ladies in New England. 

Also, there was the young physician who kept watch over Sylvia's health; a dapper little man
with pink and white complexion, and a brown moustache from which he could not keep his fingers.
He had a bungalow to himself, but sometimes he went along on the launch-trips, and Sylvia thought
she observed wrinkles of amusement round his eyes whenever she differed from her husband on
the subject of Burke. She suspected this young man of not telling all his ideas to his multi-millionaire
patients, and she was entertained by the prospect of probing him. 

Then came Mrs. Varina Tuis; who since the tragic cutting of her own domestic knot, had given
her life to the service of the happier members of the Castleman line. She was now to be companion
and counsellor to Sylvia; and on the very day of her arrival she discovered the chasm that
was yawning in her niece's life. 

"It's wonderful," wrote Sylvia, "the intuition of the Castleman women. We were in the launch,
passing one of the viaducts of the new railroad, and Aunt Varina exclaimed, 'What a wonderful
piece of work!' 'Yes,' put in my husband, 'but don't let Sylvia hear you say it.' 'Why not?'
she asked; and he replied, 'She'll tell you how many hours a day the poor Dagoes have to work.'
That was all; but I saw Aunt Varina give a quick glance at me, and I saw that she was not fooled
by my efforts to make conversation. It was rather horrid of Douglas, for he knows that I love
these old people, and do not want them to know about my trouble. But it is characteristic of
him--when he is annoyed he seldom tries to spare others. 

"As soon as we were alone, Aunt Varina began, 'Sylvia, my dear, what does it mean? What have
you done to worry your husband?' 

"You would be entertained if I could remember the conversation. I tried to dodge the trouble
by answering off-hand, 'Douglas had eaten too many turtle-eggs for luncheon '--this being a
man-like thing, that any dear old lady would understand. But she was too shrewd. I had to explain
to her that I was learning to think, and this sent her into a perfect panic. 

"'You actually mean, my child, that you are thinking about subjects to which your husband objects,
and you refuse to stop when he asks you to? Surely you must know that he has some good reason
for objecting.' 

"'I suppose so,' I said, 'but he has not made that reason clear to me; and certainly I have
a right--' 

"She would not hear any more than that. 'Right, Sylvia? Right? Are you claiming the right to
drive your husband from you?'

"'But surely I can't regulate all my thinking by the fear of driving my husband from me!' 

"'Sylvia, you take my breath away. Where did you get such ideas?' 

"'But answer me, Aunt Varina--can I?'

"'What thinking is as important to a woman as thinking how to please a good, kind husband?
What would become of her family if she no longer tried to do this?' 

"So you see, we opened up a large subject. I know you consider me a backward person, and you
may be interested to learn that there are some to whom I seem a terrifying rebel. Picture poor
Aunt Varina, her old face full of concern, repeating over and over, 'My child, my child, I
hope I have come in time! Don't scorn the advice of a woman who has paid bitterly for her mistakes.
You have a good husband, a man who loves you devotedly; you are one of the most fortunate of
women--now do not throw your happiness away!' 

"'Aunt Varina,' I said (I forget if I ever told you that her husband gambled and drank, and
finally committed suicide) 'Aunt Varina, do you really believe that every man is so anxious
to get away from his wife that it must take her whole stock of energy, her skill in diplomacy,
to keep him?' 

"'Sylvia,' she answered, "you put things so strangely, you use such horribly crude language,
I don't know how to talk to you!' (That must be your fault, Mary. I never heard such a charge
before.) 'I can only tell you this--that the wife who permits herself to think about other
things than her duty to her husband and her children is taking a frightful risk. She is playing
with fire, Sylvia--she will realize too late what it means to set aside the wisdom of her sex,
the experience of other women for ages and ages!' 

"So there you are, Mary! I am studying another unwritten book, the Maxims of Aunt Varina! 

"She has found the remedy for my troubles, the cure for my disease of thought--I am to sew!
I tell her that I have more clothes than I can wear in a dozen seasons, and she answers, in
an awesome voice, 'There is the little stranger!' When I point out that the little stranger
will be expected to have a 'layette' costing many thousands of dollars, she replies, 'They
will surely permit him to wear some of the things his mother's hands have made.' So, behold
me, seated on the gallery, learning fancy stitches--and with Kautsky on the Social Revolution
hidden away in the bottom of my sewing-bag!" 

3. The weeks passed. The legislature at Albany adjourned, without regard to our wishes; and
so, like the patient spider whose web is destroyed, we set to work upon a new one. So much
money must be raised, so many articles must be written, so many speeches delivered, so many
people seized upon and harried and wrought to a state of mind where they were dangerous to
the future career of legislators. Such is the process of social reform under the private property
régime; a process which the pure and simple reformers imagine we shall tolerate for ever--God
save us! 

Sylvia asked me for the news, and I told it to her--how we had failed, and what we had to do
next. So pretty soon there came by registered mail a little box, in which I found a diamond
ring. "I cannot ask him for money just now," she explained, "but here is something that has
been mine from girlhood. It cost about four hundred dollars--this for your guidance in selling
it. Not a day passes that I do not see many times that much wasted; so take it for the cause."
Queen Isabella and her jewels! 

In this letter she told me of a talk she had had with her husband on the "woman-problem." She
had thought at first that it was going to prove a helpful talk--he had been in a fairer mood
than she was usually able to induce. "He evaded some of my questions," she explained, "but
I don't think it was deliberate; it is simply the evasive attitude of mind which the whole
world takes. He says he does not think that women are inferior to men, only that they are different;
the mistake is for them to try to become like men. It is the old proposition of 'charm,' you
see. I put that to him, and he admitted that he did like to be 'charmed.' 

"I said, 'You wouldn't, if you knew as much about the process as I do.' 

"'Why not?' he asked. 

"'Because, it's not an honest process. It's not a straight way for one sex to deal with the
other.' 

"He asked what I meant by that; but then, remembering the cautions of my great-aunt, I laughed.
'If you are going to compel me to use the process, you can hardly expect me to tell you the
secret of it.'

"'Then there's no use trying to talk,' he said. 

"'Ah, but there is!' I exclaimed. 'You admit that I have 'charm'--dozens of other men admitted
it. And so it ought to count for something if I declare that I know it's not an honest thing--that
it depends upon trickery, and appeals to the worst qualities in a man. For instance, his vanity.
"Flatter him," Lady Dee used to say. "He'll swallow it." And he will--I never knew a man to
refuse a compliment in my life. His love of domination. "If you want anything, make him think
that he wants it!" His egotism. She had a bitter saying--I can hear the very tones of her voice:
"When in doubt, talk about HIM." That is what is called "charm"!' 

"'I don't seem to feel it,' he said. 

"' No, because now you are behind the scenes. But when you were in front, you felt it, you
can't deny. And you would feel it again, any time I chose to use it. But I want to know if
there is not some honest way a woman can interest a man. The question really comes to this--Can
a man love a woman for what she really is?' 

"'I should say,' he said, 'that it depends upon the woman.' 

"I admitted this was a plausible answer. 'But you loved me, when I made myself a mystery to
you. But now that I am honest with you, you have made it clear that you don't like it, that
you won't have it. And that is the problem that women have to face. It is a fact that the women
of our family have always ruled the men; but they've done it by indirection--nobody ever thought
seriously of "women's rights" in Castleman County. But you see, women have rights; and somehow
or other they will fool the men, or else the men must give up the idea that they are the superior
sex, and have the right, or the ability, to rule women.' 

"Then I saw how little he had followed me. 'There has to be a head to the family,' he said. 

"I answered, 'There have been cases in history of a king and queen ruling together, and getting
along very well. Why not the same thing in a family?' 

"'That's all right, so far as the things of the family are concerned. But such affairs as business
and politics are in the sphere of men; and women cannot meddle in them without losing their
best qualities as women.' 

"And so there we were. I won't repeat his arguments, for doubtless you have read enough anti-suffrage
literature. The thing I noticed was that if I was very tactful and patient, I could apparently
carry him along with me; but when the matter came up again, I would discover that he was back
where he had been before. A woman must accept the guidance of a man; she must take the man's
word for the things that he understands. 'But suppose the man is wrong?' I said; and there
we stopped--there we shall stop always, I begin to fear. I agree with him that woman should
obey man--so long as man is right!" 

4. Her letters did not all deal with this problem. In spite of the sewing, she found time to
read a number of books, and we argued about these. Then, too, she had been probing her young
doctor, and had made interesting discoveries about him. For one thing, he was full of awe and
admiration for her; and her awakening mind found material for speculation in this. 

"Here is this young man; he thinks he is a scientist, he rather prides himself upon being cold-blooded;
yet a cunning woman could twist him round her finger. He had an unhappy love-affair when he
was young, so he confided to me; and now, in his need and loneliness, a beautiful woman is
transformed into something supernatural in his imagination--she is like a shimmering soap-bubble,
that he blows with his own breath. I know that I could never get him to see the real truth
about me; I might tell him that I have let myself be tied up in a golden net--but he would
only marvel at my spirituality. Oh, the women I have seen trading upon the credulity of men!
And when I think how I did this myself! If men were wise, they would give us the vote, and
a share in the world's work--anything that would bring us out into the light of day, and break
the spell of mystery that hangs round us! 

"By the way," she wrote in another letter, "there will be trouble if you come down here. I
was telling Dr. Perrin about you, and your ideas about fasting, and mental healing, and the
rest of your fads. He got very much excited. It seems that he takes his diploma seriously,
and he's not willing to be taught by amateur experiments. He wanted me to take some pills,
and I refused, and I think now he blames you for it. He has found a bond of sympathy with my
husband, who proves his respect for authority by taking whatever he is told to take. Dr. Perrin
got his medical training here in the South, and I imagine he's ten or twenty years behind the
rest of the medical world. Douglas picked him out because he'd met him socially. It makes no
difference to me--because I don't mean to have any doctoring done to me!" 

Then, on top of these things, would come a cry from her soul. "Mary, what will you do if some
day you get a letter from me confessing that I am not happy? I dare not say a word to my own
people. I am supposed to be at the apex of human triumph, and I have to play that role to keep
from hurting them. I know that if my dear old father got an inkling of the truth, it would
kill him. My one real solid consolation is that I have helped him, that I have lifted a money-burden
from his life; I have done that, I tell myself, over and over; but then I wonder, have I done
anything but put the reckoning off? I have given all his other children a new excuse for extravagance,
an impulse towards worldliness which they did not need. 

"There is my sister Celeste, for example. I don't think I have told you about her. She made
her début last fall, and was coming up to New York to stay with me this winter. She had it
all arranged in her mind to make a rich marriage; I was to give her the entrée--and now I have
been selfish, and thought of my own desires, and gone away. Can I say to her, Be warned by
me, I have made a great match, and it has not brought me happiness? She would not understand,
she would say I was foolish. She would say, 'If I had your luck, I would be happy.' And the
worst of it is, it would be true. 

"You see the position I am in with the rest of the children. I cannot say, 'You are spending
too much of papa's money, it is wrong for you to sign cheques and trust to his carelessness.'
I have had my share of the money, I have lined my own nest. All I can do is to buy dresses
and hats for Celeste; and know that she will use these to fill her girl-friends with envy,
and make scores of other families live beyond their means." 

5. Sylvia's pregnancy was moving to its appointed end. She wrote me beautifully about it, much
more frankly and simply than she could have brought herself to talk. She recalled to me my
own raptures, and also, my own heartbreak. "Mary! Mary! I felt the child to-day! Such a sensation,
I could not have credited it if anyone had told me. I almost fainted. There is something in
me that wants to turn back, that is afraid to go on with such experiences. I do not wish to
be seized in spite of myself, and made to feel things beyond my control. I wander off down
the beach, and hide myself, and cry and cry. I think I could almost pray again." 

And then again, "I am in ecstasy, because I am to bear a child, a child of my own! Oh, wonderful,
wonderful! But suddenly my ecstasy is shot through with terror, because the father of this
child is a man I do not love. There is no use trying to deceive myself--nor you! I must have
one human soul with whom I can talk about it as it really is. I do not love him, I never did
love him, I never shall love him! 

"Oh, how could they have all been so mistaken? Here is Aunt Varina--one of those who helped
to persuade me into this marriage. She told me that love would come; it seemed to be her idea--my
mother had it too--that you had only to submit yourself to a man, to follow and obey him, and
love would take possession of your heart. I tried credulously, and it did not happen as they
promised. And now, I am to bear him a child; and that will bind us together for ever! 

"Oh, the despair of it--I do not love the father of my child! I say, The child will be partly
his, perhaps more his than mine. It will be like him--it will have this quality and that, the
very qualities, perhaps, that are a source of distress to me in the father. So I shall have
these things before me day and night, all the rest of my life; I shall have to see them growing
and hardening; it will be a perpetual crucifixion of my mother-love. I seek to comfort myself
by saying, The child can be trained differently, so that he will not have these qualities.
But then I think, No, you cannot train him as you wish. Your husband will have rights to the
child, rights superior to your own. Then I foresee the most dreadful strife between us. 

"A shrewd girl-friend once told me that I ought to be better or worse; I ought not to see people's
faults as I do, or else I ought to love people less. And I can see that I ought to have been
too good to make this marriage, or else not too good to make the best of it. I know that I
might be happy as Mrs. Douglas van Tuiver, if I could think of the worldly advantages, and
the fact that my child will inherit them. But instead, I see them as a trap, in which not only
ourselves but the child is caught, and from which I cannot save us. Oh, what a mistake a woman
makes when she marries a man with the idea that she is going to change him! He will not change,
he will not have the need of change suggested to him. He wants peace in his home--which means
that he wants to be what he is. 

"Sometimes I can study the situation quite coolly, and as if it didn't concern me at all. He
has required me to subject my mind to his. But he will not be content with a general capitulation;
he must have a surrender from each individual soldier, from every rebel hidden in the hills.
He tracks them out (my poor, straggling, feeble ideas) and either they take the oath of allegiance,
or they are buried where they lie. The process is like the spoiling of a child, I find; the
more you give him, the more he wants. And if any little thing is refused, then you see him
set out upon a regular campaign to break you down and get it." 

A month or more later she wrote: "Poor Douglas is getting restless. He has caught every kind
of fish there is to catch, and hunted every kind of animal and bird, in and out of season.
Harley has gone home, and so have our other guests; it would be embarrassing to me to have
company now. So Douglas has no one but the doctor and myself and my poor aunt. He has spoken
several times of our going away; but I do not want to go, and I think I ought to consider my
own health at this critical time. It is hot here, but I simply thrive in it--I never felt in
better health. So I asked him to go up to New York, or visit somewhere for a while, and let
me stay here until my baby is born. Does that seem so very unreasonable? It does not to me,
but poor Aunt Varina is in agony about it--I am letting my husband drift away from me! 

"I speculate about my lot as a woman; I see the bitterness and the sorrow of my sex through
the ages. I have become physically misshapen, so that I am no longer attractive to him. I am
no longer active and free, I can no longer go about with him; on the contrary, I am a burden,
and he is a man who never tolerated a burden before. What this means is that I have lost the
magic hold of sex. 

"As a woman it was my business to exert all my energies to maintain it. And I know how I could
restore it now; there is young Dr. Perrin! He does not find me a burden, he would tolerate
any deficiencies! And I can see my husband on the alert in an instant, if I become too much
absorbed in discussing your health-theories with my handsome young guardian! 

"This is one of the recognized methods of keeping your husband; I learned from Lady Dee all
there is to know about it. But I would find the method impossible now, even if my happiness
were dependent upon retaining my husband's love. I should think of the rights of my friend,
the little doctor. That is one point to note for the 'new' woman, is it not? You may mention
it in your next suffrage-speech! 

"There are other methods, of course. I have a mind, and I might turn its powers to entertaining
him, instead of trying to solve the problems of the universe. But to do this, I should have
to believe that it was the one thing in the world for me to do; and I have permitted a doubt
of that to gain entrance to my brain! My poor aunt's exhortations inspire me to efforts to
regain the faith of my mothers, but I simply cannot--I cannot! She sits by me with the terror
of all the women of all the ages in her eyes. I am losing a man! 

"I don't know if you have ever set out to hold a man--deliberately, I mean. Probably you haven't.
That bitter maxim of Lady Dee's is the literal truth of it--'When in doubt, talk about HIM!'
If you will tactfully and shrewdly keep a man talking about himself, his tastes, his ideas,
his work and the importance of it, there is never the least possibility of your boring him.
You must not just tamely agree with him, of course; if you hint a difference now and then,
and make him convince you, he will find that stimulating; or if you can manage not to be quite
convinced, but sweetly open to conviction, he will surely call again. 'Keep him busy every
minute,' Lady Dee used to say. 'Run away with him now and then--like a spirited horse!' And
she would add, 'But don't let him drop the reins!' 

"You can have no idea how many women there are in the world deliberately playing such parts.
Some of them admit it; others just do the thing that is easiest, and would die of horror if
they were told what it is. It is the whole of the life of a successful society woman, young
or old. Pleasing a man! Waiting upon his moods, piquing him, flattering him, feeding his vanity--'charming'
him! That is what Aunt Varina wants me to do now; if I am not too crude in my description of
the process, she has no hesitation in admitting the truth. It is what she tried to do, it is
what almost every woman has done who has held a family together and made a home. I was reading
Jane Eyre the other day. There is your woman's ideal of an imperious and impetuous lover! Listen
to him, when his mood is on him!--

"I am disposed to be gregarious and communicative to-night; and that is why I sent for you;
the fire and the chandelier were not sufficient company for me; nor would Pilot have been,
for none of these can talk. 

6. It was now May, and Sylvia's time was little more than a month off. She had been urging
me to come and visit her, but I had refused, knowing that my presence must necessarily be disturbing
to both her husband and her aunt. But now she wrote that her husband was going back to New
York. "He was staying out of a sense of duty to me," she said. "But his discontent was so apparent
that I had to point out to him that he was doing harm to me as well as to himself.

"I doubt if you will want to come here now. The last of the winter visitors have left. It is
really hot, so hot that you cannot get cool by going into the water. Yet I am revelling in
it; I wear almost nothing, and that white; and even the suspicious Dr. Perrin cannot but admit
that I am thriving; his references to pills are purely formal. 

"Lately I have not permitted myself to think much about the situation between my husband and
myself. I cannot blame him, and I cannot blame myself, and I am trying to keep my peace of
mind till my baby is born. I have found myself following half-instinctively the procedure you
told me about; I talk to my own subconscious mind, and to the baby--I command them to be well.
I whisper to them things that are not so very far from praying; but I don't think my poor dear
mamma would recognize it in its new scientific dress! 

"But sometimes I can't help thinking of the child and its future, and then all of a sudden
my heart is ready to break with pity for the child's father! I have the consciousness that
I do not love him, and that he has always known it--and that makes me remorseful. But I told
him the truth before we married--he promised to be patient with me till I had learned to love
him! Now I want to burst into tears and cry aloud, 'Oh, why did you do it? Why did I let myself
be persuaded into this marriage?' 

"I tried to have a talk with him last night, after he had decided to go away. I was full of
pity, and a desire to help. I said I wanted him to know that no matter how much we might disagree
about some things, I meant to learn to live happily with him. We must find some sort of compromise,
for the sake of the child, if not for ourselves; we must not let the child suffer. He answered
coldly that there would be no need for the child to suffer, the child would have the best the
world could afford. I suggested that there might arise some question as to just what the best
was; but to that he said nothing. He went on to rebuke my discontent; had he not given me everything
a woman could want? he asked. He was too polite to mention money; but he said that I had leisure
and entire freedom from care. I was persisting in assuming cares, while he was doing all in
his power to prevent it. 

"And that was as far as we got. I gave up the discussion, for we should only have gone the
old round over again. 

"Douglas has taken up a saying that my cousin brought with him: 'What you don't know won't
hurt you!' I think that before he left, Harley had begun to suspect that all was not well between
my husband and myself, and he felt it necessary to give me a little friendly counsel. He was
tactful, and politely vague, but I understood him--my worldly-wise young cousin. I think that
saying of his sums up the philosophy that he would teach to all women--'What you don't know
won't hurt you!'" 

7. A week or so later Sylvia wrote me that her husband was in New York. And I waited another
week, for good measure, and then one morning dropped in for a call upon Claire Lepage. 

Why did I do it? you ask. I had no definite purpose--only a general opposition to the philosophy
of Cousin Harley. 

I was ushered into Claire's boudoir, which was still littered with last evening's apparel.
She sat in a dressing-gown with resplendent red roses on it, and brushed the hair out of her
eyes, and apologized for not being ready for callers. 

"I've just had a talking to from Larry," she explained. 

"Larry?" said I, inquiringly; for Claire had always informed me elaborately that van Tuiver
had been her one departure from propriety, and always would be. 

Apparently she had now reached a stage in her career where pretences were too much trouble.
"I've come to the conclusion that I don't know how to manage men," she said. "I never can get
along with one for any time." 

I remarked that I had had the same experience; though of course I had only tried it once. "Tell
me," I said, "who's Larry?" 

"There's his picture." She reached into a drawer of her dresser. 

I saw a handsome blonde gentleman, who looked old enough to know better. "He doesn't seem especially
forbidding," I said. 

"That's just the trouble--you can never tell about men!" 

I noted a date on the picture. "He seems to be an old friend. You never told me about him." 

"He doesn't like being told about. He has a troublesome wife." 

I winced inwardly, but all I said was, "I see." 

"He's a stock-broker; and he got 'squeezed,' so he says, and it's made him cross--and careful
with his money, too. That's trying, in a stock-broker, you must admit." She laughed. "And still
he's just as particular--wants to have his own way in everything, wants to say whom I shall
know and where I shall go. I said, 'I have all the inconveniences of matrimony, and none of
the advantages.'" 

I made some remark upon the subject of the emancipation of woman; and Claire, who was now leaning
back in her chair, combing out her long black tresses, smiled at me out of half-closed eyelids.
"Guess whom he's objecting to!" she said. And when I pronounced it impossible, she looked portentous.
"There are bigger fish in the sea than Larry Edgewater!" 

"And you've hooked one?" I asked, innocently. 

"Well, I don't mean to give up all my friends." 

I went on casually to talk about my plans for the summer; and a few minutes later, after a
lull--"By the way," remarked Claire, "Douglas van Tuiver is in town." 

"How do you know?" 

"I've seen him." 

"Indeed! Where?" 

"I got Jack Taylor to invite me again. You see, when Douglas fell in love with his peerless
southern beauty, Jack predicted he'd get over it even more quickly. Now he's interested in
proving he was right." 

I waited a moment, and then asked, carelessly, "Is he having any success?" 

"I said, 'Douglas, why don't you come to see me?' He was in a playful mood. 'What do you want?
A new automobile?' I answered, 'I haven't any automobile, new or old, and you know it. What
I want is you. I always loved you--surely I proved that to you.' 'What you proved to me was
that you were a sort of wild-cat. I'm afraid of you. And anyway, I'm tired of women. I'll never
trust another one.'"

"About the same conclusion as you've come to regarding men," I remarked. 

"'Douglas,' I said, 'come and see me, and we'll talk over old times. You may trust me, I swear
I'll not tell a living soul.' 'You've been consoling yourself with someone else,' he said.
But I knew he was only guessing. He was seeking for something that would worry me, and he said,
'You're drinking too much. People that drink can't be trusted.' 'You know,' I replied, 'I didn't
drink too much when I was with you. I'm not drinking as much as you are, right now.' He answered,
'I've been off on a desert island for God knows how many months, and I'm celebrating my escape.'
'Well,' I answered, 'let me help celebrate!'" 

"What did he say to that?" 

Claire resumed the combing of her silken hair, and smiled a slow smile at me. "'You may trust
me, Douglas,' I said. 'I swear I'll not tell a living soul!'" 

"Of course," I remarked, appreciatively, "that means he said he'd come!" 

"I haven't told you!" was the reply. 

8. I knew that I had only to wait for Claire to tell me the rest of the story. But her mind
went off on another tack. "Sylvia's going to have a baby," she remarked, suddenly. 

"That ought to please her husband," I said. 

"You can see him beginning to swell with paternal pride!--so Jack said. He sent for a bottle
of some famous kind of champagne that he has, to celebrate the new 'millionaire baby.' (They
used to call Douglas that, once upon a time.) Before they got through, they had made it triplets.
Jack says Douglas is the one man in New York who can afford them." 

"Your friend Jack seems to be what they call a wag," I commented. 

"It isn't everybody that Douglas will let carry on with him like that. He takes himself seriously,
as a rule. And he expects to take the new baby seriously." 

"It generally binds a man tighter to his wife, don't you think?" 

I watched her closely, and saw her smile at my naiveté. "No," she said, "I don't. It leaves
them restless. It's a bore all round." 

I did not dispute her authority; she ought to know her husbands, I thought. 

She was facing the mirror, putting up her hair; and in the midst of the operation she laughed.
"All that evening, while we were having a jolly time at Jack Taylor's, Larry was here waiting." 

"Then no wonder you had a row!" I said. 

"He hadn't told me he was coming. And was I to sit here all night alone? It's always the same--I
never knew a man who really in his heart was willing for you to have any friends, or any sort
of good time without him." 

"Perhaps," I replied, "he's afraid you mightn't be true to him." I meant this for a jest, of
the sort that Claire and her friends would appreciate. Little did I foresee where it was to
lead us! 

I remember how once on the farm my husband had a lot of dynamite, blasting out stumps; and
my emotions when I discovered the children innocently playing with a stick of it. Something
like these children I seem now to myself, looking back on this visit to Claire, and our talk. 

"You know," she observed, without smiling, "Larry's got a bee in his hat. I've seen men who
were jealous, and kept watch over women, but never one that was obsessed like him." 

"What's it about?" 

"He's been reading a book about diseases, and he tells me tales about what may happen to me,
and what may happen to him. When you've listened a while, you can see microbes crawling all
over the walls of the room." 

"Well----" I began. 

"I was sick of his lecturing, so I said, 'Larry, you'll have to do like me--have everything
there is, and get over it, and then you won't need to worry.'" 

I sat still, staring at her; I think I must have stopped breathing. At the end of an eternity,
I said, "You've not really had any of these diseases, Claire?" 

"Who hasn't?" she countered. 

Again there was a pause. "You know," I observed, "some of them are dangerous----" 

"Oh, of course," she answered, lightly. "There's one that makes your nose fall in and your
hair fall out--but you haven't seen anything like that happening to me!" 

"But there's another," I hinted--"one that's much more common." And when she did not take the
hint, I continued, "Also it's more serious than people generally realize." 

She shrugged her shoulders. "What of it? Men bring you these things, and it's part of the game.
So what's the use of bothering?" 

9. There was a long silence; I had to have time to decide what course to take. There was so
much that I wanted to get from her, and so much that I wanted to hide from her! 

"I don't want to bore you, Claire," I began, finally, "but really this is a matter of importance
to you. You see, I've been reading up on the subject as well as Larry. The doctors have been
making new discoveries. They used to think this was just a local infection, like a cold, but
now they find it's a blood disease, and has the gravest consequences. For one thing, it causes
most of the surgical operations that have to be performed on women." 

"Maybe so," she said, still indifferent. "I've had two operations. But it's ancient history now." 

"You mayn't have reached the end yet," I persisted. "People suppose they are cured of gonorrhea,
when really it's only suppressed, and is liable to break out again at any time." 

"Yes, I knew. That's some of the information Larry had been making love to me with." 

"It may get into the joints and cause rheumatism; it may cause neuralgia; it's been known to
affect the heart. Also it causes two-thirds of all the blindness in infants----" 

And suddenly Claire laughed. "That's Sylvia Castleman's lookout it seems to me!" 

"Oh! OH!" I whispered, losing my self-control. 

"What's the matter?" she asked, and I noticed that her voice had become sharp. 

"Do you really mean what you've just implied?" 

"That Mrs. Douglas van Tuiver may have to pay something for what she has done to me? Well,
what of it?" And suddenly Claire flew into a passion, as she always did when our talk came
to her rival. "Why shouldn't she take chances the same as the rest of us? Why should I have
it and she get off?" 

I fought for my composure. After a pause, I said: "It's not a thing we want anybody to have,
Claire. We don't want anybody to take such a chance. The girl ought to have been told." 

"Told? Do you imagine she would have given up her great catch?" 

"She might have, how can you be sure? Anyhow, she should have had the chance." 

There was a long silence. I was so shaken that it was hard for me to find words. "As a matter
of fact," said Claire, grimly, "I thought of warning her myself. There'd have been some excitement
at least! You remember--when they came out of church. You helped to stop me! " 

"It would have been too late then," I heard myself saying. 

"Well," she exclaimed, with fresh excitement, "it's Miss Sylvia's turn now! We'll see if she's
such a grand lady that she can't get my diseases!" 

I could no longer contain myself. "Claire," I cried, "you are talking like a devil!" 

She picked up a powder-puff, and began to use it diligently. "I know," she said--and I saw
her burning eyes in the glass--"you can't fool me. You've tried to be kind, but you despise
me in your heart. You think I'm as bad as any woman of the street. Very well then, I speak
for my class, and I tell you, this is where we prove our humanity. They throw us out, but you
see we get back in!" 

"My dear woman," I said, "you don't understand. You'd not feel as you do, If you knew that
the person to pay the penalty might be an innocent little child." 

"Their child! Yes, it's too bad if there has to be anything the matter with the little prince!
But I might as well tell you the truth--I've had that in mind all along. I didn't know just
what would happen, or how--I don't believe anybody does, the doctors who pretend to are just
faking you. But I knew Douglas was rotten, and maybe his children would be rotten, and they'd
all of them suffer. That was one of the things that kept me from interfering and smashing him up." 

I was speechless now, and Claire, watching me, laughed. "You look as if you'd had no idea of
it. Don't you know that I told you at the time?" 

"You told me at the time!" 

"I suppose, you didn't understand. I'm apt to talk French when I'm excited. We have a saying:
'The wedding present which the mistress leaves in the basket of the bride.' That was pretty
near telling, wasn't it?" 

"Yes," I said, in a low voice. 

And the other, after watching me for a moment more, went on: "You think I'm revengeful, don't
you? Well, I used to reproach myself with this, and I tried to fight it down; but the time
comes when you want people to pay for what they take from you. Let me tell you something that
I never told to anyone, that I never expected to tell. You see me drinking and going to the
devil; you hear me talking the care-free talk of my world, but in the beginning I was really
in love with Douglas van Tuiver, and I wanted his child. I wanted it so that it was an ache
to me. And yet, what chance did I have? I'd have been the joke of his set for ever if I'd breathed
it; I'd have been laughed out of the town. I even tried at one time to trap him--to get his
child in spite of him, but I found that the surgeons had cut me up, and I could never have
a child. So I have to make the best of it--I have to agree with my friends that it's a good
thing, it saves me trouble! But she comes along, and she has what I wanted, and all the world
thinks it wonderful and sublime. She's a beautiful young mother! What's she ever done in her
life that she has everything, and I go without? You may spend your time shedding tears over
her and what may happen to her but for my part, I say this--let her take her chances! Let her
take her chances with the other women in the world--the women she's too good and too pure to
know anything about!" 

10. I came out of Claire's house, sick with horror. Not since the time when I had read my poor
nephew's letter had I been so shaken. Why had I not thought long ago of questioning Claire
about these matters. How could I have left Sylvia all this time exposed to peril? 

The greatest danger was to her child at the time of birth. I figured up, according to the last
letter I had received; there was about ten days yet, and so I felt some relief. I thought first
of sending a telegram, but reflected that it would be difficult, not merely to tell her what
to do in a telegram, but to explain to her afterwards why I had chosen this extraordinary method.
I recollected that in her last letter she had mentioned the name of the surgeon who was coming
from New York to attend her during her confinement. Obviously the thing for me to do was to
see this surgeon. 

"Well, madame?" he said, when I was seated in his inner office. 

He was a tall, elderly man, immaculately groomed, and formal and precise in his manner. "Dr.
Overton," I began, "my friend, Mrs. Douglas van Tuiver writes me that you are going to Florida
shortly."

"That is correct," he said. 

"I have come to see you about a delicate matter. I presume I need hardly say that I am relying
upon the seal of professional secrecy."

I saw his gaze become suddenly fixed. "Certainly, madame," he said. 

"I am taking this course because Mrs. van Tuiver is a very dear friend of mine, and I am concerned
about her welfare. It has recently come to my knowledge that she has become exposed to infection
by a venereal disease." 

He would hardly have started more if I had struck him. "HEY?" he cried, forgetting his manners. 

"It would not help you any," I said, "if I were to go into details about this unfortunate matter.
Suffice it to say that my information is positive and precise--that it could hardly be more so." 

There was a long silence. He sat with eyes rivetted upon me. "What is this disease?" he demanded,
at last. 

I named it, and then again there was a pause. "How long has this--this possibility of infection
existed?" 

"Ever since her marriage, nearly eighteen months ago." 

That told him a good part of the story. I felt his look boring me through. Was I a mad woman?
Or some new kind of blackmailer? Or, was I, possibly, a Claire? I was grateful for my forty-cent
bonnet and my forty-seven years. 

"Naturally," he said at length, "this information startles me." 

"When you have thought it over," I responded, "you will realise that no possible motive could
bring me here but concern for the welfare of my friend." 

He took a few moments to consider. "That may be true, madame, but let me add that when you
say you KNOW this----" 

He stopped. "I MEAN that I know it," I said, and stopped in turn. 

"Has Mrs. van Tuiver herself any idea of this situation?" 

"None whatever. On the contrary, she was assured before her marriage that no such possibility
existed." 

Again I felt him looking through me, but I left him to make what he could of my information.
"Doctor," I continued, "I presume there is no need to point out to a man in your position the
seriousness of this matter, both to the mother and to the child." 

"Certainly there is not." 

"I assume that you are familiar with the precautions that have to be taken with regard to the
eyes of the child?" 

"Certainly, madame." This with just a touch of HAUTEUR, and then, suddenly: "Are you by any
chance a nurse?" 

"No," I replied, "but many years ago I was forced by tragedy in my own family to realise the
seriousness of the venereal peril. So when I learned this fact about my friend, my first thought
was that you should be informed of it. I trust that you will appreciate my position." 

"Certainly, madame, certainly," he made haste to say. "You are quite right, and you may rest
assured that everything will be done that our best knowledge directs. I only regret that the
information did not come to me sooner." 

"It only came to me about an hour ago," I said, as I rose to leave. "The blame, therefore,
must rest upon another person." 

I needed to say no more. He bowed me politely out, and I walked down the street, and realised
that I was restless and wretched. I wandered at random for a while. trying to think what else
I could do, for my own peace of mind, if not for Sylvia's welfare. I found myself inventing
one worry after another. Dr. Overton had not said just when he was going, and suppose she were
to need someone at once? Or suppose something were to happen to him--if he were to be killed
upon the long train-journey? I was like a mother who has had a terrible dream about her child--she
must rush and fling her arms about the child. I realised that I wanted to see Sylvia! 

She had begged me to come; and I was worn out and had been urged by the office to take a rest.
Suddenly I bolted into a store, and telephoned the railroad station about trains to Southern
Florida. I hailed a taxi-cab, rode to my home post-haste, and flung a few of my belongings
into a bag and the waiting cab sped with me to the ferry. In little more than two hours after
Claire had told me the dreadful tidings, I was speeding on my way to Sylvia. 

11. From a train-window I had once beheld a cross-section of America from West to East; now
I beheld another from North to South. In the afternoon were the farms and country-homes of
New Jersey; and then in the morning endless wastes of wilderness, and straggling fields of
young corn and tobacco; turpentine forests, with half-stripped negroes working, and a procession
of "depots," with lanky men chewing tobacco, and negroes basking in the blazing sun. Then another
night, and there was the pageant of Florida: palmettos, and other trees of which one had seen
pictures in the geography books; stretches of vine-tangled swamps, where one looked for alligators;
orange-groves in blossom, and gardens full of flowers beyond imagining. Every hour, of course,
it got hotter; I was not, like Sylvia, used to it, and whenever the train stopped I sat by
the open window, mopping the perspiration from my face. 

We were due at Miami in the afternoon; but there was a freight-train off the track ahead of
us, and so for three hours I sat chafing with impatience, worrying the conductor with futile
questions. I had to make connections at Miami with a train which ran to the last point on the
mainland, where the construction-work over the keys was going forward. And if I missed that
last train, I would have to wait in Miami till morning. I had better wait there, anyhow, the
conductor argued; but I insisted that my friends, to whom I had telegraphed two days before,
would meet me with a launch and take me to their place that night. 

We got in half an hour late for the other train; but this was the South, I discovered, and
they had waited for us. I shifted my bag and myself across the platform, and we moved on. But
then another problem arose; we were running into a storm. It came with great suddenness; one
minute all was still, with a golden sunset, and the next it was so dark that I could barely
see the palm-trees, bent over, swaying madly--like people with arms stretched out, crying in
distress. I could hear the roaring of the wind above that of the train, and I asked the conductor
in consternation if this could be a hurricane. It was not the season for hurricanes, he replied;
but it was "some storm, all right," and I would not find any boat to take me to the keys until
it was over. 

It was absurd of me to be nervous, I kept telling myself; but there was something in me that
cried out to be there, to be there! I got out of the train, facing what I refrain from calling
a hurricane out of deference to local authority. It was all I could do to keep from being blown
across the station-platform, and I was drenched with the spray and bewildered by the roaring
of the waves that beat against the pier beyond. Inside the station, I questioned the agent.
The launch of the van Tuivers had not been in that day; if it had been on the way, it must
have sought shelter somewhere. My telegram to Mrs. van Tuiver had been received two days before,
and delivered by a boatman whom they employed for that purpose. Presumably, therefore, I would
be met. I asked how long this gale was apt to last; the answer was from one to three days. 

Then I asked about shelter for the night. This was a "jumping-off" place, said the agent, with
barracks and shanties for a construction-gang; there were saloons, and what was called a hotel,
but it wouldn't do for a lady. I pleaded that I was not fastidious--being anxious to nullify
the effect which the name van Tuiver had produced. But the agent would have it that the place
was unfit for even a Western farmer's wife; and as I was not anxious to take the chance of
being blown overboard in the darkness, I spent the night on one of the benches in the station.
I lay, listening to the incredible clamour of wind and waves, feeling the building quiver,
and wondering if each gust might not blow it away. 

I was out at dawn, the force of the wind having abated somewhat by that time. I saw before
me a waste of angry foam-strewn water, with no sign of any craft upon it. Late in the morning
came the big steamer which ran to Key West, in connection with the railroad; it made a difficult
landing, and I interviewed the captain, with the idea of bribing him to take me to my destination.
But he had his schedule, which neither storms nor the name of van Tuiver could alter. Besides,
he pointed out, he could not land me at their place, as his vessel drew too much water to get
anywhere near; and if he landed me elsewhere, I should be no better off, "If your friends are
expecting you, they'll come here," he said, "and their launch can travel when nothing else can." 

To pass the time I went to inspect the viaduct of the railway-to-be. The first stretch was
completed, a long series of concrete arches, running out, apparently, into the open sea. It
was one of the engineering wonders of the world, but I fear I did not appreciate it. Towards
mid-afternoon I made out a speck of a boat over the water, and my friend, the station-agent,
remarked, "There's your launch." 

I expressed my amazement that they should have ventured out in such weather. I had had in mind
the kind of tiny open craft that one hears making day and night hideous at summer-resorts;
but when the "Merman" drew near, I realized afresh what it was to be the guest of a multi-millionaire.
She was about fifty feet long, a vision of polished brass and shining, new-varnished cedar.
She rammed her shoulder into the waves and flung them contemptuously to one side; her cabin
was tight, dry as the saloon of a liner. 

Three men emerged on deck to assist in the difficult process of making a landing. One of them
sprang to the dock, and confronting me, inquired if I was Mrs. Abbott. He explained that they
had set out to meet me the previous afternoon, but had had to take refuge behind one of the keys. 

"How is Mrs. van Tuiver?" I asked, quickly. 

"She is well." 

"I don't suppose--the baby----" I hinted. 

"No, ma'am, not yet," said the man; and after that I felt interested in what he had to say
about the storm and its effects. We could return at once, it seemed, if I did not mind being
pitched about. 

"How long does it take?" I asked. 

"Three hours, in weather like this. It's about fifty miles." 

"But then it will be dark," I objected. 

"That won't matter, ma'am--we have plenty of light of our own. We shan't have trouble, unless
the wind rises, and there's a chain of keys all the way, where we can get shelter if it does.
The worst you have to fear is spending a night on board." 

I reflected that I could not well be more uncomfortable than I had been the previous night,
so I voted for a start. There was mail and some supplies to be put on board; then I made a
spring for the deck, as it surged up towards me on a rising wave, and in a moment more the
cabin-door had shut behind me, and I was safe and snug, in the midst of leather and mahogany
and electric-lighted magnificence. Through the heavy double windows I saw the dock swing round
behind us, and saw the torrents of green spray sweep over us and past. I grasped at the seat
to keep myself from being thrown forward, and then grasped behind, to keep from going in that
direction. I had a series of sensations as of an elevator stopping suddenly--and then I draw
the curtains of the "Merman's" cabin, and invite the reader to pass by. This is Sylvia's story,
and not mine, and it is of no interest what happened to me during that trip. I will only remind
the reader that I had lived my life in the far West, and there were some things I could not
have foreseen. 

12. "We are there, ma'am," I heard one of the boatmen say, and I realised vaguely that the
pitching had ceased. He helped me to sit up, and I saw the search-light of the craft sweeping
the shore of an island. "It passes off 'most as quick as it comes, ma'am," added my supporter,
and for this I murmured feeble thanks. 

We came to a little bay, where the power was shut off, and we glided towards the shore. There
was a boat-house, a sort of miniature dry-dock, with a gate which closed behind us. I had visions
of Sylvia waiting to meet me, but apparently our arrival had not been noted, and for this I
was grateful. There were seats in the boat-house, and I sank into one, and asked the man to
wait a few minutes while I recovered myself. When I got up and went to the house, what I found
made me quickly forget that I had such a thing as a body. 

There was a bright moon, I remember, and I could see the long, low bungalow, with windows gleaming
through the palm-trees. A woman's figure emerged from the house and came down the white shell-path
to meet me. My heart leaped. My beloved! 

But then I saw it was the English maid, whom I had come to know in New York; I saw, too, that
her face was alight with excitement. "Oh, my lady!" she cried. "The baby's come!" 

It was like a blow in the face. "What?" I gasped. 

"Came early this morning. A girl." 

"But--I thought it wasn't till next week!" 

"I know, but it's here. In that terrible storm, when we thought the house was going to be washed
away! Oh, my lady, it's the loveliest baby!" 

I had presence of mind enough to try to hide my dismay. The semi-darkness was a fortunate thing
for me. "How is the mother?" I asked. 

"Splendid. She's asleep now." 

"And the child?" 

"Oh! Such a dear you never saw!" 

"And it's all right?" 

"It's just the living image of its mother! You shall see!" 

We moved towards the house, slowly, while I got my thoughts together. "Dr. Perrin is here?"
I asked. 

"Yes. He's gone to his place to sleep." 

"And the nurse?" 

"She's with the child. Come this way." 

We went softly up the steps of the veranda. All the rooms opened upon it, and we entered one
of them, and by the dim-shaded light I saw a white-clad woman bending over a crib. "Miss Lyman,
this is Mrs. Abbott," said the maid. 

The nurse straightened up. "Oh! so you got here! And just at the right time!" 

"God grant it may be so!" I thought to myself. "So this is the child!" I said, and bent over
the crib. The nurse turned up the light for me. 

It is the form in which the miracle of life becomes most apparent to us, and dull indeed must
be he who can encounter it without being stirred to the depths. To see, not merely new life
come into the world, but life which has been made by ourselves, or by those we love--life that
is a mirror and copy of something dear to us! To see this tiny mite of warm and living flesh,
and to see that it was Sylvia! To trace each beloved lineament, so much alike, and yet so different--half
a portrait and half a caricature, half sublime and half ludicrous! The comical little imitation
of her nose, with each dear little curve, with even a remainder of the tiny groove underneath
the tip, and the tiny corresponding dimple underneath the chin! The soft silken fuzz which
was some day to be Sylvia's golden glory! The delicate, sensitive lips, which were some day
to quiver with feeling! I gazed at them and saw them moving, I saw the breast moving--and a
wave of emotion swept over me, and the tears half-blinded me as I knelt. 

But I could not forget the reason for my coming. It meant little that the child was alive and
seemingly well; I was not dealing with a disease which, like syphilis, starves and deforms
in the very womb. The little one was asleep, but I moved the light so as to examine its eyelids.
Then I turned to the nurse and asked: "Miss Lyman, doesn't it seem to you the eyelids are a
trifle inflamed?" 

"Why, I hadn't noticed it," she answered. 

"Were the eyes washed?" I inquired. 

"I washed the baby, of course--" 

"I mean the eyes especially. The doctor didn't drop anything into them?" 

"I don't think he considered it necessary." 

"It's an important precaution," I replied; "there are always possibilities of infection." 

"Possibly," said the other. "But you know, we did not expect this. Dr. Overton was to be here
in three or four days." 

"Dr. Perrin is asleep?" I asked. 

"Yes. He was up all last night." 

"I think I will have to ask you to waken him," I said. 

"Is it as serious as that?" she inquired, anxiously, having sensed some of the emotion I was
trying to conceal. 

"It might be very serious," I said. "I really ought to have a talk with the doctor." 

13. The nurse went out, and I drew up a chair and sat by the crib, watching the infant go back
to sleep. I was glad to be alone, to have a chance to get myself together. But suddenly I heard
a rustle of skirts in the doorway behind me, and turned and saw a white-clad figure; an elderly
gentlewoman, slender and fragile, grey-haired and rather pale, wearing a soft dressing-gown.
Aunt Varina! 

I rose. "This must be Mrs. Abbott," she said. Oh, these soft, caressing Southern voices, that
cling to each syllable as a lover to a hand at parting. 

She was a very prim and stately little lady, and I think she did not intend to shake hands;
but I felt pretty certain that under her coating of formality, she was eager for a chance to
rhapsodize. "Oh, what a lovely child!" I cried; and instantly she melted. 

"You have seen our babe!" she exclaimed; and I could not help smiling. A few months ago, "the
little stranger," and now "our babe"! 

She bent over the cradle, with her dear old sentimental, romantic soul in her eyes. For a minute
or two she quite forgot me; then, looking up, she murmured, "It is as wonderful to me as if
it were my own!" 

"All of us who love Sylvia feel that," I responded. 

She rose, and suddenly remembering hospitality, asked me as to my present needs. Then she said,
"I must go and see to sending some telegrams." 

"Telegrams?" I inquired. 

"Yes. Think what this news will mean to dear Douglas! And to Major Castleman!" 

"You haven't informed them?" 

"We couldn't send any smaller boat on account of the storm. We must telegraph Dr. Overton also,
you understand." 

"To tell him not to come?" I ventured. "But don't you think, Mrs. Tuis, that he may wish to
come anyhow?" 

"Why should he wish that?" 

"I'm not sure, but--I think he might." How I longed for a little of Sylvia's skill in social
lying! "Every newly-born infant ought to be examined by a specialist, you know; there may be
a particular régime, a diet for the mother--one cannot say." 

"Dr. Perrin didn't consider it necessary." 

"I am going to have a talk with Dr. Perrin at once," I said. 

I saw a troubled look in her eyes. "You don't mean you think there's anything the matter?" 

"No--no," I lied. "But I'm sure you ought to wait before you have the launch go. Please do." 

"If you insist," she said. I read bewilderment in her manner, and just a touch of resentment.
Was it not presumptuous of me, a stranger, and one--well, possibly not altogether a lady? She
groped for words; and the ones that came were: "Dear Douglas must not be kept waiting." 

I was too polite to offer the suggestion that "dear Douglas" might be finding ways to amuse
himself. The next moment I heard steps approaching on the veranda, and turned to meet the nurse
with the doctor. 

14. "How do you do, Mrs. Abbott?" said Dr. Perrin. He was in his dressing-gown, and had a newly-awakened
look. I started to apologize, but he replied, "It's pleasant to see a new face in our solitude.
Two new faces!" 

That was behaving well, I thought, for a man who had been routed out of sleep. I tried to meet
his mood. "Dr. Perrin, Mrs. van Tuiver tells me that you object to amateur physicians. But
perhaps you won't mind regarding me as a midwife. I have three children of my own, and I've
had to help bring others into the world." 

"All right," he smiled. "We'll consider you qualified. What is the matter?" 

"I wanted to ask you about the child's eyes. It is a wise precaution to drop some nitrate of
silver into them, to provide against possible infection." 

I waited for my answer. "There have been no signs of any sort of infection in this case," he
said, at last. 

"Perhaps not. But it is not necessary to wait, in such a matter. You have not taken the precaution?"

"No, madam." 

"You have some of the drug, of course?" 

Again there was a pause. "No, madam, I fear that I have not." 

I winced, involuntarily. I could not hide my distress. "Dr. Perrin," I exclaimed, "you came
to attend a confinement case, and you omitted to provide something so essential!" 

There was nothing left of the little man's affability now. "In the first place," he said, "I
must remind you that I did not come to attend a confinement case. I came to look after Mrs.
van Tuiver's condition up to the time of confinement." 

"But you knew there would always be the possibility of an accident!"

"Yes, to be sure." 

"And you didn't have any nitrate of silver!" 

"Madam," he said, stiffly, "there is no use for this drug except in one contingency." 

"I know," I cried, "but it is an important precaution. It is the practice to use it in all
maternity hospitals." 

"Madam, I have visited hospitals, and I think I know something of what the practice is." 

So there we were, at a deadlock. There was silence for a space. 

"Would you mind sending for the drug?" I asked, at last. 

"I presume," he said, with hauteur, "it will do no harm to have it on hand." 

I was aware of an elderly lady watching us, with consternation written upon every sentimental
feature. "Dr. Perrin," I said, "if Mrs. Tuis will pardon me, I think I ought to speak with
you alone." The nurse hastily withdrew; and I saw the elderly lady draw herself up with terrible
dignity--and then suddenly quail, and turn and follow the nurse. 

I told the little man what I knew. After he had had time to get over his consternation, he
said that fortunately there did not seem to be any sign of trouble. 

"There does seem so to me," I replied. "It may be only my imagination, but I think the eyelids
are inflamed." 

I held the baby for him, while he made an examination. He admitted that there seemed to be
ground for uneasiness. His professional dignity was now gone, and he was only too glad to be
human. 

"Dr. Perrin," I said, "there is only one thing we can do--to get some nitrate of silver at
the earliest possible moment. Fortunately, the launch is here." 

"I will have it start at once," he said. "It will have to go to Key West." 

"And how long will that take?" 

"It depends upon the sea. In good weather it takes us eight hours to go and return." I could
not repress a shudder. The child might be blind in eight hours! 

But there was no time to be wasted in foreboding. "About Dr. Overton," I said. "Don't you think
he had better come?" But I ventured to add the hint that Mr. van Tuiver would hardly wish expense
to be considered in such an emergency; and in the end, I persuaded the doctor not merely to
telegraph for the great surgeon, but to ask a hospital in Atlanta to send the nearest eye-specialist
by the first train. 

We called back Mrs. Tuis, and I apologized abjectly for my presumption, and Dr. Perrin announced
that he thought he ought to see Dr. Overton, and another doctor as well. I saw fear leap into
Aunt Varina's eyes. "Oh, what is it?" she cried. "What is the matter with our babe?" 

I helped the doctor to answer polite nothings to all her questions. "Oh, the poor, dear lady!"
I thought to myself. The poor, dear lady! What a tearing away of veils and sentimental bandages
was written in her book of fate for that night! 

15. I find myself lingering over these preliminaries, dreading the plunge into the rest of
my story. We spent our time hovering over the child's crib, and in two or three hours the little
eyelids had become so inflamed that there could no longer be any doubt what was happening.
We applied alternate hot and cold cloths; we washed the eyes in a solution of boric acid, and
later, in our desperation, with bluestone. But we were dealing with the virulent gonococcus,
and we neither expected nor obtained much result from these measures. In a couple of hours
more the eyes were beginning to exude pus, and the poor infant was wailing in torment. 

"Oh, what can it be? Tell me what is the matter?" cried Mrs. Tuis. She sought to catch the
child in her arms, and when I quickly prevented her, she turned upon me in anger. "What do
you mean?" 

"The child must be quiet," I said. 

"But I wish to comfort it!" And when I still insisted, she burst out wildly: "What right have
you?" 

"Mrs. Tuis," I said, gently, "it is possible the infant may have a very serious infection.
If so, you would be apt to catch it." 

She answered with a hysterical cry: "My precious innocent! Do you think that I would be afraid
of anything it could have?" 

"You may not be afraid, but we are. We should have to take care of you, and one case is more
than enough." 

Suddenly she clutched me by the arm. "Tell me what this awful thing is! I demand to know!" 

"Mrs. Tuis," said the doctor, interfering, "we are not yet sure what the trouble is, we only
wish to take precautions. It is really imperative that you should not handle this child or
even go near it. There is nothing you can possibly do." 

She was willing to take orders from him; he spoke the same dialect as herself, and with the
same quaint stateliness. A charming little Southern gentleman--I could realise how Douglas
van Tuiver had "picked him out for his social qualities." In the old-fashioned Southern medical
college where he had got his training, I suppose they had taught him the old-fashioned idea
of gonorrhea. Now he was acquiring our extravagant modern notions in the grim school of experience!

It was necessary to put the nurse on her guard as to the risks we were running. We should have
had concave glasses to protect our eyes, and we spent part of our time washing our hands in
bichloride solution. 

"Mrs. Abbott, what is it?" whispered the woman. 

"It has a long name," I replied--"opthalmia neonatorum." 

"And what has caused it?" 

"The original cause," I responded, "is a man." I was not sure if that was according to the
ethics of the situation, but the words came. 

Before long the infected eye-sockets were two red and yellow masses of inflammation, and the
infant was screaming like one of the damned. We had to bind up its eyes; I was tempted to ask
the doctor to give it an opiate for fear lest it should scream itself into convulsions. Then
as poor Mrs. Tuis was pacing the floor, wringing her hands and sobbing hysterically, Dr. Perrin
took me to one side and said: "I think she will have to be told." 

The poor, poor lady! 

"She might as well understand now as later," he continued. "She will have to help keep the
situation from the mother." 

"Yes," I said, faintly; and then, "Who shall tell her?" 

"I think," suggested the doctor, "she might prefer to be told by a woman." 

So I shut my lips together and took the distracted lady gently by the arm and led her to the
door. We stole like two criminals down the veranda, and along the path to the beach, and near
the boathouse we stopped, and I began. 

"Mrs. Tuis, you may remember a circumstance which your niece mentioned to me--that just before
her marriage she urged you to have certain inquiries made as to Mr. van Tuiver's health, his
fitness for marriage?" 

Never shall I forget her face at that moment. "Sylvia told you that!" 

"The inquiries were made," I went on, "but not carefully enough, it seems. Now you behold the
consequence of this negligence." 

I saw her blank stare. I added: "The one to pay for it is the child." 

"You--you mean--" she stammered, her voice hardly a whisper. "Oh--it is impossible!" Then,
with a flare of indignation: "Do you realise what you are implying--that Mr. van Tuiver--" 

"There is no question of implying," I said, quietly. "It is the facts we have to face now,
and you will have to help us to face them." 

She cowered and swayed before me, hiding her face in her hands. I heard her sobbing and murmuring
incoherent cries to her god. I took the poor lady's hand, and bore with her as long as I could,
until, being at the end of my patience with prudery and purity and chivalry, and all the rest
of the highfalutin romanticism of the South, I said: "Mrs Tuis, it is necessary that you should
get yourself together. You have a serious duty before you--that you owe both to Sylvia and
her child." 

"What is it?" she whispered. The word "duty" had motive power for her. 

"At all hazards, Sylvia must be kept in ignorance of the calamity for the present. If she were
to learn of it it would quite possibly throw her into a fever, and cost her life or the child's.
You must not make any sound that she can hear, and you must not go near her until you have
completely mastered your emotions." 

"Very well," she murmured. She was really a brave little body, but I, not knowing her, and
thinking only of the peril, was cruel in hammering things into her consciousness. Finally,
I left her, seated upon the steps of the deserted boat-house, rocking back and forth and sobbing
softly to herself--one of the most pitiful figures it has ever been my fortune to encounter
in my pilgrimage through a world of sentimentality and incompetence. 

16. I went back to the house, and because we feared the sounds of the infant's crying might
carry, we hung blankets before the doors and windows of the room, and sat in the hot enclosure,
shuddering, silent, grey with fear. After an hour or two, Mrs. Tuis rejoined us, stealing in
and seating herself at one side of the room, staring from one to another of us with wide eyes
of fright. 

By the time the first signs of dawn appeared, the infant had cried itself into a state of exhaustion.
The faint light that got into the room revealed the three of us, listening to the pitiful whimpering.
I was faint with weakness, but I had to make an effort and face the worst ordeal of all. There
came a tapping at the door--the maid, to say that Sylvia was awake and had heard of my arrival
and wished to see me. I might have put off our meeting for a while, on the plea of exhaustion,
but I preferred to have it over with, and braced myself and went slowly to her room. 

In the doorway I paused for an instant to gaze at her. She was exquisite, lying there with
the flush of sleep still upon her, and the ecstasy of her great achievement in her face. I
fled to her, and we caught each other in our arms. "Oh, Mary, Mary! I'm so glad you've come!"
And then: "Oh, Mary, isn't it the loveliest baby!" 

"Perfectly glorious!" I exclaimed. 

"Oh, I'm so happy--so happy as I never dreamed! I've no words to tell you about it." 

"You don't need any words--I've been through it," I said. 

"Oh, but she's so beautiful! Tell me, honestly, isn't that really so?" 

"My dear," I said, "she is like you." 

"Mary," she went on, half whispering, "I think it solves all my problems--all that I wrote
you about. I don't believe I shall ever be unhappy again. I can't believe that such a thing
has really happened--that I've been given such a treasure. And she's my own! I can watch her
little body grow and help to make it strong and beautiful! I can help mould her little mind--see
it opening up, one chamber of wonder after another! I can teach her all the things I have had
to grope so to get!" 

"Yes," I said, trying to speak with conviction. I added, hastily: "I'm glad you don't find
motherhood disappointing." 

"Oh, it's a miracle!" she exclaimed. "A woman who could be dissatisfied with anything afterwards
would be an ingrate!" She paused, then added: "Mary, now she's here in flesh, I feel she'll
be a bond between Douglas and me. He must see her rights, her claim upon life, as he couldn't
see mine." 

I assented gravely. So that was the thing she was thinking most about--a bond between her husband
and herself! A moment later the nurse appeared in the doorway, and Sylvia set up a cry: "My
baby! Where's my baby? I want to see my baby!" 

"Sylvia, dear," I said, "there's something about the baby that has to be explained." 

Instantly she was alert. "What is the matter?" 

I laughed. "Nothing, dear, that amounts to anything. But the little one's eyes are inflamed--that
is to say, the lids. It's something that happens to newly-born infants." 

"Well, then?" she said. 

"Nothing, only the doctor's had to put some salve on them, and they don't look very pretty." 

"I don't mind that, if it's all right." 

"But we've had to put a bandage over them, and it looks forbidding. Also the child is apt to cry." 

"I must see her at once!" she exclaimed. 

"Just now she's asleep, so don't make us disturb her." 

"But how long will this last?" 

"Not very long. Meantime you must be sensible and not mind. It's something I made the doctor
do, and you mustn't blame me, or I'll be sorry I came to you." 

"You dear thing," she said, and put her hand in mine. And then, suddenly: "Why did you take
it into your head to come, all of a sudden?" 

"Don't ask me," I smiled. "I have no excuse. I just got homesick and had to see you." 

"It's perfectly wonderful that you should be here now," she declared. "But you look badly.
Are you tired?" 

"Yes, dear," I said. (Such a difficult person to deceive!) "To tell the truth, I'm pretty nearly
done up. You see, I was caught in the storm, and I was desperately sea-sick." 

"Why, you poor dear! Why didn't you go to sleep?" 

"I didn't want to sleep. I was too much excited by everything. I came to see one Sylvia and
I found two!" 

"Isn't it absurd," she cried, "how she looks like me? Oh, I want to see her again. How long
will it be before I can have her?" 

"My dear," I said, "you mustn't worry--" 

"Oh, don't mind me, I'm just playing. I'm so happy, I want to squeeze her in my arms all the
time. Just think, Mary, they won't let me nurse her, yet--a whole day now! Can that be right?" 

"Nature will take care of that," I said. 

"Yes, but how can you be sure what Nature means? Maybe it's what the child is crying about,
and it's the crying that makes its eyes red."

I felt a sudden spasm grip my heart. "No, dear, no," I said, hastily. "You must let Dr. Perrin
attend to these things, for I've just had to interfere with his arrangements, and he'll be
getting cross pretty soon." 

"Oh," she cried with laughter in her eyes, "you've had a scene with him? I knew you would!
He's so quaint and old-fashioned!" 

"Yes," I said, "and he talks exactly like your aunt." 

"Oh! You've met her too! I'm missing all the fun!" 

I had a sudden inspiration--one that I was proud of. "My dear girl," I said, "maybe you call
it fun!" And I looked really agitated. 

"Why, what's the matter?" she cried. 

"What could you expect?" I asked. "I fear, my dear Sylvia, I've shocked your aunt beyond all
hope." 

"What have you done?" 

"I've talked about things I'd no business to--I've bossed the learned doctor--and I'm sure
Aunt Varina has guessed I'm not a lady." 

"Oh, tell me about it!" cried Sylvia, full of delight. 

But I could not keep up the game any longer. "Not now, dear," I said. "It's a long story, and
I really am exhausted. I must go and get some rest." 

I rose, and she caught my hand, whispering: "I shall be happy, Mary! I shall be really happy
now!" And then I turned and fled, and when I was out of sight of the doorway, I literally ran.
At the other end of the veranda I sank down upon the steps, and wept softly to myself. 

17. The launch arrived, bringing the nitrate of silver. A solution was dropped into the baby's
eyes, and then we could do nothing but wait. I might have lain down and really tried to rest;
but the maid came again, with the announcement that Sylvia was asking for her aunt. Excuses
would have tended to excite her suspicions; so poor Mrs. Tuis had to take her turn at facing
the ordeal, and I had to drill and coach her for it. I had a vision of the poor lady going
in to her niece, and suddenly collapsing. Then there would begin a cross-examination, and Sylvia
would worm out the truth, and we might have a case of puerperal fever on our hands. 

This I explained afresh to Mrs. Tuis, having taken her into her own room and closed the door
for that purpose. She clutched me with her shaking hands and whispered, "Oh, Mrs. Abbott, you
will never let Sylvia find out what caused this trouble?" 

I drew on my reserve supply of patience, and answered, "What I shall let her find out in the
end, I don't know. We shall be guided by circumstances, and this is no time to discuss the
matter. The point is now to make sure that you can go in and stay with her, and not let her
get an idea there's anything wrong." 

"Oh, but you know how Sylvia reads people!" she cried, in sudden dismay. 

"I've fixed it for you," I said. "I've provided something you can be agitated about." 

"What is that?" 

"It's me." Then, seeing her look of bewilderment, "You must tell her that I've affronted you,
Mrs. Tuis; I've outraged your sense of propriety. You're indignant with me and you don't see
how you can remain in the house with me--" 

"Why, Mrs. Abbott!" she exclaimed, in horror. 

"You know it's truth to some extent," I said. 

The good lady drew herself up. "Mrs. Abbott, don't tell me that I have been so rude--" 

"Dear Mrs. Tuis," I laughed, "don't stop to apologize just now. You have not been lacking in
courtesy, but I know how I must seem to you. I am a Socialist. I have a raw, Western accent,
and my hands are big--I've lived on a farm all my life, and done my own work, and even plowed
sometimes. I have no idea of the charms and graces of life that are everything to you. What
is more than that, I am forward, and thrust my opinions upon other people--" 

She simply could not hear me. She was a-tremble with a new excitement. Worse even than opthalmia
neonatorum was plain speaking to a guest! "Mrs. Abbott, you humiliate me!" 

Then I spoke harshly, seeing that I would actually have to shock her. "I assure you, Mrs. Tuis,
that if you don't feel that way about me, it's simply because you don't know the truth. It
is not possible that you would consider me a proper person to visit Sylvia. I don't believe
in your religion; I don't believe in anything that you would call religion, and I argue about
it at the least provocation. I deliver violent harangues on street-corners, and have been arrested
during a strike. I believe in woman's suffrage, I even argue in approval of window-smashing.
I believe that women ought to earn their own living, and be independent and free from any man's
control. I am a divorced woman--I left my husband because I wasn't happy with him, what's more,
I believe that any woman has a right to do the same--I'm liable to teach such ideas to Sylvia,
and to urge her to follow them." 

The poor lady's eyes were wide and large. "So you see," I exclaimed, "you really couldn't approve
of me! Tell her all this; she knows it already, but she will be horrified, because I have let
you and the doctor find it out!" 

Whereupon Mrs. Tuis started to ascend the pedestal of her dignity. "Mrs. Abbott, this may be
your idea of a jest----" 

"Now come," I cried, "let me help you fix your hair, and put on just a wee bit of powder--not
enough to be noticed, you understand----" 

I took her to the wash-stand, and poured out some cold water for her, and saw her bathe her
eyes and face, and dry them, and braid her thin grey hair. While with a powder puff I was trying
deftly to conceal the ravages of the night's crying, the dear lady turned to me, and whispered
in a trembling voice, "Mrs. Abbott, you really don't mean that dreadful thing you said just now?" 

"Which dreadful thing, Mrs. Tuis?" 

"That you would tell Sylvia it could possibly be right for her to leave her husband?" 

18. In the course of the day we received word that Dr. Gibson, the specialist for whom we had
telegraphed, was on his way. The boat which brought his message took back a letter from Dr.
Perrin to Douglas van Tuiver, acquainting him with the calamity which had befallen. We had
talked it over and agreed that there was nothing to be gained by telegraphing the information.
We did not wish any hint of the child's illness to leak into the newspapers. 

I did not envy the great man the hour when he read that letter; although I knew that the doctor
had not failed to assure him that the victim of his misdeeds should be kept in ignorance. Already
the little man had begun to drop hints to me on this subject. Unfortunate accidents happened,
which were not always to be blamed upon the husband, nor was it a thing to contemplate lightly,
the breaking up of a family. I gave a non-committal answer, and changed the subject by asking
the doctor not to mention my presence in the household. If by any chance van Tuiver were to
carry his sorrows to Claire, I did not want my name brought up. 

We managed to prevent Sylvia's seeing the child that day and night, and the next morning came
the specialist. He held out no hope of saving any remnant of the sight, but the child might
be so fortunate as to escape disfigurement--it did not appear that the eyeballs were destroyed,
as happens generally in these cases. This bit of consolation I still have: that little Elaine,
who sits by me as I write, has left in her pupils a faint trace of the soft red-brown--just
enough to remind us of what we have lost, and keep fresh in our minds the memory of these sorrows.
If I wish to see what her eyes might have been, I look above my head to the portrait of Sylvia's
noble ancestress, a copy made by a "tramp artist" in Castleman County, and left with me by Sylvia. 

There was the question of the care of the mother--the efforts to stay the ravages of the germ
in the tissues broken and weakened by the strain of child-birth. We had to invent excuses for
the presence of the new doctor--and yet others for the presence of Dr. Overton, who came a
day later. And then the problem of the nourishing of the child. It would be a calamity to have
to put it upon the bottle, but on the other hand, there were many precautions necessary to
keep the infection from spreading. 

I remember vividly the first time that the infant was fed: all of us gathered round, with matter-of-course
professional air, as if these elaborate hygienic ceremonies were the universal custom when
newly-born infants first taste their mothers' milk. Standing in the background, I saw Sylvia
start with dismay, as she noted how pale and thin the poor little one had become. It was hunger
that caused the whimpering, so the nurse declared, busying herself in the meantime to keep
the tiny hands from the mother's face. The latter sank back and closed her eyes--nothing, it
seemed, could prevail over the ecstasy of that first marvellous sensation, but afterwards she
asked that I might stay with her, and as soon as the others were gone, she unmasked the batteries
of her suspicion upon me. "Mary! What in the world has happened to my baby?" 

So began a new stage in the campaign of lying. "It's nothing, nothing. Just some infection.
It happens frequently." 

"But what is the cause of it?" 

"We can't tell. It may be a dozen things. There are so many possible sources of infection about
a birth. It's not a very sanitary thing, you know." 

"Mary! Look me in the face!" 

"Yes, dear?" 

"You're not deceiving me?" 

"How do you mean?" 

"I mean--it's not really something serious? All these doctors--this mystery--this vagueness!" 

"It was your husband, my dear Sylvia, who sent the doctors--it was his stupid man's way of
being attentive." (This at Aunt Varina's suggestion--the very subtle lady!). 

"Mary, I'm worried. My baby looks so badly, and I feel something is wrong." 

"My dear Sylvia," I chided, "if you worry about it you will simply be harming the child. Your
milk may go wrong." 

"Oh, that's just it! That's why you would not tell me the truth!" 

We persuade ourselves that there are certain circumstances under which lying is necessary,
but always when we come to the lies we find them an insult to the soul. Each day I perceived
that I was getting in deeper--and each day I watched Aunt Varina and the doctor busied to push
me deeper yet. 

There had come a telegram from Douglas van Tuiver to Dr. Perrin, revealing the matter which
stood first in that gentleman's mind. "I expect no failure in your supply of the necessary
tact." By this vagueness we perceived that he too was trusting no secrets to telegraph operators.
Yet for us it was explicit and illuminative. It recalled the tone of quiet authority I had
noted in his dealings with his chauffeur, and it sent me off by myself for a while to shake
my fist at all husbands. 

19. Mrs. Tuis, of course, had no need of any warning from the head of the house. The voice
of her ancestors guided her in all such emergencies. The dear lady had got to know me quite
well, at the more or less continuous dramatic rehearsals we conducted; and now and then her
trembling hands would seek to fasten me in the chains of decency. "Mrs. Abbott, think what
a scandal there would be if Mrs. Douglas van Tuiver were to break with her husband!" 

"Yes, my dear Mrs. Tuis-but on the other hand, think what might happen if she were kept in
ignorance in this matter. She might bear another child." 

I got a new realization of the chasms that lay between us. "Who are we," she whispered, "to
interfere in these sacred matters? It is of souls, Mrs. Abbot, and not bodies, that the Kingdom
of Heaven is made." 

I took a minute or so to get my breath, and then I said, "What generally happens in these cases
is that God afflicts the woman with permanent barrenness." 

The old lady bowed her head, and I saw the tears falling into her lap. "My poor Sylvia!" she
moaned, only half aloud. 

There was a silence; I too almost wept. And finally, Aunt Varina looked up at me, her faded
eyes full of pleading. "It is hard for me to understand such ideas as yours. You must tell
me-can you really believe that it would help Sylvia to know this-this dreadful secret?" 

"It would help her in many ways," I said. "She will be more careful of her health-she will
follow the doctor's orders---" 

How quickly came the reply! "I will stay with her, and see that she does that! I will be with
her day and night." 

"But are you going to keep the secret from those who attend her? Her maid--the child's nurses--everyone
who might by any chance use the same towel, or a wash-basin, or a drinking-glass?" 

"Surely you exaggerate the danger! If that were true, more people would meet with these accidents!"

"The doctors," I said, "estimate that about ten per cent. of cases of this disease are innocently
acquired." 

"Oh, these modern doctors!" she cried. "I never heard of such ideas!" 

I could not help smiling. "My dear Mrs. Tuis, what do you imagine you know about the prevalence
of gonorrhea? Consider just one fact--that I heard a college professor state publicly that
in his opinion eighty-five per cent. of the men students at his university were infected with
some venereal disease. And that is the pick of our young manhood--the sons of our aristocracy!" 

"Oh, that can't be!" she exclaimed. "People would know of it! 

"Who are 'people'? The boys in your family know of it--if you could get them to tell you. My
two sons studied at a State university, and they would bring me home what they heard--the gossip,
the slang, the horrible obscenity. Fourteen fellows in one dormitory using the same bathroom--and
on the wall you saw a row of fourteen syringes! And they told that on themselves, it was the
joke of the campus. They call the disease a 'dose'; and a man's not supposed to be worthy the
respect of his fellows until he's had his 'dose'--the sensible thing is to get several, till
he can't get any more. They think it's 'no worse than a bad cold'; that's the idea they get
from the 'clap-doctors,' and the women of the street who educate our sons in sex matters." 

"Oh, spare me, spare me!" cried Mrs. Tuis. "I beg you not to force these horrible details upon
me!" 

"That is what is going on among our boys," I said. "The Castleman boys, the Chilton boys! It's
going on in every fraternity house, every 'prep school' dormitory in America. And the parents
refuse to know, just as you do!" 

"But what could I possibly do, Mrs. Abbott?" 

"I don't know, Mrs. Tuis. What I am going to do is to teach the young girls." 

She whispered, aghast, "You would rob the young girls of their innocence. Why, with their souls
full of these ideas their faces would soon be as hard--oh, you horrify me!" 

"My daughter's face is not hard," I said. "And I taught her. Stop and think, Mrs. Tuis--ten
thousand blind children every year! A hundred thousand women under the surgeon's knife! Millions
of women going to pieces with slowly creeping diseases of which they never hear the names!
I say, let us cry this from the housetops, until every woman knows--and until every man knows
that she knows, and that unless he can prove that he is clean he will lose her! That is the
remedy, Mrs. Tuis!" 

Poor dear lady! I got up and went away, leaving her there, with clenched hands and trembling
lips. I suppose I seemed to her like the mad women who were just then rising up to horrify
the respectability of England--a phenomenon of Nature too portentous to be comprehended, or
even to be contemplated, by a gentlewoman of the South! 

20. There came in due course a couple of letters from Douglas van Tuiver. The one to Aunt Varina,
which was shown to me, was vague and cautious--as if the writer were uncertain how much this
worthy lady knew. He merely mentioned that Sylvia was to be spared every particle of "painful
knowledge." He would wait in great anxiety, but he would not come, because any change in his
plans might set her to questioning. 

The letter to Dr. Perrin was not shown to me; but I judged that it must have contained more
strenuous injunctions. Or had Aunt Varina by any chance got up the courage to warn the young
doctor against me? His hints, at any rate, became more pointed. He desired me to realize how
awkward it would be for him, if Sylvia were to learn the truth; it would be impossible to convince
Mr. van Tuiver that this knowledge had not come from the physician in charge. 

"But, Dr. Perrin," I objected, "it was I who brought the information to you! And Mr. van Tuiver
knows that I am a radical woman; he would not expect me to be ignorant of such matters." 

"Mrs. Abbott," was the response, "it is a grave matter to destroy the possibility of happiness
of a young married couple." 

However I might dispute his theories, in practice I was doing what he asked. But each day I
was finding the task more difficult; each day it became more apparent that Sylvia was ceasing
to believe me. I realized at last, with a sickening kind of fright, that she knew I was hiding
something from her. Because she knew me, and knew that I would not do such a thing lightly,
she was terrified. She would lie there, gazing at me, with a dumb fear in her eyes--and I would
go on asseverating blindly, like an unsuccessful actor before a jeering audience. 

A dozen times she made an effort to break through the barricade of falsehood; and a dozen times
I drove her back, all but crying to her, "No, No! Don't ask me!" Until at last, late one night,
she caught my hand and clung to it in a grip I could not break. "Mary! Mary! You must tell
me the truth!" 

"Dear girl--" I began. 

"Listen!" she cried. "I know you are deceiving me! I know why--because I'll make myself ill.
But it won't do any longer; it's preying on me, Mary--I've taken to imagining things. So you
must tell me the truth!" 

I sat, avoiding her eyes, beaten; and in the pause I could feel her hands shaking. "Mary, what
is it? Is my baby going to die?" 

"No, dear, indeed no!" I cried. 

"Then what?" 

"Sylvia," I began, as quietly as I could, "the truth is not as bad as you imagine--" 

"Tell me what it is!" 

"But it is bad, Sylvia. And you must be brave. You must be, for your baby's sake." 

"Make haste!" she cried. 

"The baby," I said, "may be blind." 

"Blind!" There we sat, gazing into each other's eyes, like two statues of women. But the grasp
of her hand tightened, until even my big fist was hurt. "Blind!" she whispered again. 

"Sylvia," I rushed on, "it isn't so bad as it might be! Think--if you had lost her altogether!" 

"Blind!" 

"You will have her always; and you can do things for her--take care of her. They do wonders
for the blind nowadays--and you have the means; to do everything. Really, you know, blind children
are not unhappy--some of them are happier than other children, I think. They haven't so much
to miss. Think--" 

"Wait, wait," she whispered; and again there was silence, and I clung to her cold hands. 

"Sylvia," I said, at last, "you have a newly-born infant to nurse, and its very life depends
upon your health now. You cannot let yourself grieve." 

"No," she responded. "No. But, Mary, what caused this?" 

So there was the end of my spell of truth-telling. "I don't know, dear. Nobody knows. There
might be a thousand things--" 

"Was it born blind?" 

"No." 

"Then was it the doctor's fault?" 

"No, it was nobody's fault. Think of the thousands and tens of thousands of babies that become
blind! It's a dreadful accident that happens." So I went on--possessed with a dread that had
been with me for days, that had kept me awake for hours in the night: Had I, in any of my talks
with Sylvia about venereal disease, mentioned blindness in infants as one of the consequences?
I could not rememher; but now was the time I would find out! 

She lay there, immovable, like a woman who had died in grief; until at last I flung my arms
about her and whispered, "Sylvia! Sylvia! Please cry!" 

"I can't cry!" she whispered, and her voice sounded hard. 

So, after a space, I said, "Then, dear, I think I will have to make you laugh." 

"Laugh, Mary?" 

"Yes-I will tell you about the quarrel between Aunt Varina and myself. You know what times
we've been having-how I shocked the poor lady?" 

She was looking at me, but her eyes were not seeing me. "Yes, Mary," she said, in the same
dead tone. 

"Well, that was a game we made for you. It was very funny!" 

"Funny?" 

"Yes! Because I really did shock her-though we started out just to give you something else
to think about!" 

And then suddenly I saw the healing tears begin to come. She could not weep for her own grief-but
she could weep because of what she knew we two had had to suffer for her! 

21. I went out and told the others what I had done; and Mrs. Tuis rushed in to her niece and
they wept in each other's arms, and Mrs. Tuis explained all the mysteries of life by her formula,
"the will of the Lord." 

Later on came Dr. Perrin, and it was touching to see how Sylvia treated him. She had, it appeared,
conceived the idea that the calamity must be due to some blunder on his part, and then she
had reflected that he was young, and that chance had thrown upon him a responsibility for which
he had not bargained. He must be reproaching himself bitterly, so she had to persuade him that
it was really not so bad as we were making it-that a blind child was a great joy to a mother's
soul-in some ways even a greater joy than a perfectly sound child, because it appealed so to
her protective instinct! I had called Sylvia a shameless payer of compliments, and now I went
away by myself and wept. 

Yet it was true in a way. When the infant was brought in to be nursed again, how she clung
to it, a very picture of the sheltering and protecting instinct of motherhood! She knew the
worst now--her mind was free, and she could partake of what happiness was allowed her. The
child was hers to love and care for, and she would find ways to atone to it for the harshness
of fate. 

So little by little we got our existence upon a working basis. We lived a peaceful, routine
life, to the music of cocoanut-palms rustling in the warm breezes which blew incessantly off
the Mexican Gulf. Aunt Varina had, for the time, her undisputed way with the family; her niece
reclined upon the veranda in true Southern lady fashion, and was read aloud to from books of
indisputable respectability. I remember Aunt Varina selected the "Idylls of the King," and
they two were in a mood to shed tears over these solemn, sorrowful tales. So it came that the
little one got her name, after a pale and unhappy heroine. 

I remember the long discussions of this point, the family-lore which Aunt Varina brought forth.
It did not seem to her quite the thing to call a blind child after a member of one's family.
Something strange, romantic, wistful--yes, Elaine was the name! Mrs. Tuis, it transpired, had
already baptised the infant, in the midst of the agonies and alarms of its illness. She had
called it "Sylvia," and now she was tremulously uncertain whether this counted--whether perhaps
the higher powers might object to having to alter their records. But in the end a clergyman
came out from Key West and heard Aunt Varina's confession, and gravely concluded that the error
might be corrected by a formal ceremony. How strange it all seemed to me--being carried back
two or three hundred years in the world's history! But I gave no sign of what was going on
in my rebellious mind. 

22. Dr. Overton on his return to New York, sent a special nurse to take charge of Sylvia's
case. There was also an infant's nurse, and both had been taken into the doctor's confidence.
So now there was an elaborate conspiracy--no less than five women and two men, all occupied
in keeping a secret from Sylvia. It was a thing so contrary to my convictions that I was never
free from the burden of it for a moment. Was it my duty to tell her? 

Dr. Perrin no longer referred to the matter--I realised that both he and Dr. Gibson considered
the matter settled. Was it conceivable that anyone of sound mind could set out, deliberately
and in cold blood, to betray such a secret? But I had maintained all my life the right of woman
to know the truth, and was I to back down now, at the first test of my convictions? 

When the news reached Douglas van Tuiver that his wife had been informed of the infant's blindness,
there came a telegram saying that he was coming. There was much excitement, of course, and
Aunt Varina came to me, in an attempt to secure a definite pledge of silence. When I refused
it, Dr. Perrin came again, and we fought the matter over for the better part of a day and night. 

He was a polite little gentleman, and he did not tell me that my views were those of a fanatic,
but he said that no woman could see things in their true proportion, because of her necessary
ignorance concerning the nature of men, and the temptations to which they were exposed. I replied
that I believed I understood these matters thoroughly, and I went on, quite simply and honestly,
to make clear to him that this was so. In the end my pathetically chivalrous little Southern
gentleman admitted everything I asked. Yes, it was true that these evils were ghastly, and
that they were increasing, and that women were the worst sufferers from men. There might even
be something in my idea that the older women of the community should devote themselves to this
service, making themselves race-mothers, and helping, not merely in their homes, but in the
schools and churches, to protect and save the future generations. But all that was in the future,
he argued, while here was a case which had gone so far that "letting in the light" could only
blast the life of two people, making it impossible for a young mother ever again to tolerate
the father of her child. I argued that Sylvia was not of the hysterical type, but I could not
make him agree that it was possible to predict what the attitude of any woman would be. His
ideas were based on one peculiar experience he had had--a woman patient who had said to him:
"Doctor, I know what is the matter with me, but for God's sake don't let my husband find out
that I know, because then I should feel that my self-respect required me to leave him!" 

23. The Master-of-the-House was coming! You could feel the quiver of excitement in the air
of the place. The boatmen were polishing the brasses of the launch; the yard-man was raking
up the dry strips of palm from beneath the cocoanut trees; Aunt Varina was ordering new supplies,
and entering into conspiracies with the cook. The nurses asked me timidly, what was He like,
and even Dr. Gibson, a testy old gentleman who had clashed violently with me on the subject
of woman's suffrage, and had avoided me ever since as a suspicious character, now came and
confided his troubles. He had sent home for a trunk, and the graceless express companies had
sent it astray. Now he was wondering if it was necessary for him to journey to Key West and
have a suit of dinner clothes made over night. I told him that I had not sent for any party-dresses,
and that I expected to meet Mr. Douglas van Tuiver at his dinner-table in plain white linen.
His surprise was so great that I suspected the old gentleman of having wondered whether I meant
to retire to a "second-table" when the Master-of-the-House arrived. 

I went away by myself, seething with wrath. Who was this great one whom we honoured? Was he
an inspired poet, a maker of laws, a discoverer of truth? He was the owner of an indefinite
number of millions of dollars--that was all, and yet I was expected, because of my awe of him,
to abandon the cherished convictions of my lifetime. The situation was one that challenged
my fighting blood. This was the hour to prove whether I really meant the things I talked. 

On the morning of the day that van Tuiver was expected, I went early to Aunt Varina's room.
She was going in the launch, and was in a state of flustration, occupied in putting on her
best false hair. "Mrs. Tuis," I said, "I want you to let me go to meet Mr. van Tuiver instead
of you." 

I will not stop to report the good lady's outcries. I did not care, I said, whether it was
proper, nor did I care whether, as she finally hinted, it might not be agreeable to Mr. van
Tuiver. I was sorry to have to thrust myself upon him, but I was determined to go, and would
let nothing prevent me. And all at once she yielded, rather surprising me by the suddenness
of it. I suppose she concluded that van Tuiver was the man to handle me, and the quicker he
got at it the better. 

It is a trying thing to deal with the rich and great. If you treat them as the rest of the
world does, you are a tuft-hunter; if you treat them as the rest of the world pretends to,
you are a hypocrite; whereas, if you deal with them truly, it is hard not to seem, even to
yourself, a bumptious person. I remember trying to tell myself on the launch-trip that I was
not in the least excited; and then, standing on the platform of the railroad station, saying:
"How can you expect not to be excited, when even the railroad is excited?" 

"Will Mr. van Tuiver's train be on time?" I asked, of the agent. 

"'Specials' are not often delayed," he replied, "at least, not Mr. van Tuiver's." 

The engine and its two cars drew up, and the traveller stepped out upon the platform, followed
by his secretary and his valet. I went forward to meet him. "Good morning, Mr. van Tuiver." 

I saw at once that he did not remember me. "Mrs. Abbott," I prompted. "I came to meet you." 

"Ah," he said. He had never got clear whether I was a sewing-woman, or a tutor, or what, and
whenever he erred in such matters, it was on the side of caution. 

"Your wife is doing well," I said, "and the child as well as could be expected." 

"Thank you," he said. "Did no one else come?" 

"Mrs. Tuis was not able," I said, diplomatically, and we moved towards the launch. 

24. He did not offer to help me into the vessel, but I, crude Western woman, did not miss the
attention. We seated ourselves in the upholstered leather seats in the stern, and when the
"luggage" had been stowed aboard, the little vessel swung away from the pier. Then I said:
"If you will pardon me, Mr. van Tuiver, I should like to talk with you privately." 

He looked at me for a moment, and then answered, abruptly: "Yes, madam." The secretary rose
and went forward. 

The whirr of the machinery and the strong breeze made by the boat's motion, made it certain
that no one could hear us, and so I began my attack: "Mr. van Tuiver, I am a friend of your
wife's. I came here to help her in this crisis, and I came to-day to meet you because it was
necessary for someone to talk to you frankly about the situation. You will understand, I presume,
that Mrs. Tuis is not-- not very well informed about the matters in question." 

His gaze was fixed intently upon me, but he said not a word. After waiting, I continued: "Perhaps
you will wonder why your wife's physicians could not have handled the matter. The reason is,
there is a woman's side to such questions and often it is difficult for men to understand it.
If Sylvia knew the truth, she could speak for herself; so long as she does not know it, I shall
have to take the liberty of speaking for her." 

Again there was a pause. He did nothing more than watch me, yet I could feel his affronted
maleness rising up for battle. I waited on purpose to compel him to speak. 

"May I ask," he inquired, at last, "what you mean by the 'truth' that you refer to?" 

"I mean," I said, "the cause of the infant's affliction." 

His composure was a thing to wonder at. He did not show by the flicker of an eyelash any sign
of uneasiness. 

"Let me explain one thing," I continued. "I owe it to Dr. Perrin to make clear that he had
nothing whatever to do with my coming into possession of the secret. In fact, as he will no
doubt tell you, I knew it before he did; it is possible that you owe it to me that the infant
is not disfigured as well as blind." 

I paused again. "If that be true," he said, with unshaken formality, "I am obliged to you."
What a man! 

I continued: "My one desire and purpose is to protect my friend. So far, the secret has been
kept from her. I consented to this, because her very life was at stake, it seemed to us all.
But now she is well enough to know, and the question is SHALL she know. I need hardly tell
you that Dr. Perrin thinks she should not, and that he has been using his influence to persuade
me to agree with him; so also has Mrs. Tuis----" 

Then I saw the first trace of uncertainty in his eyes. "There was a critical time," I explained,
"when Mrs. Tuis had to be told. You may be sure, however, that no hint of the truth will be
given by her. I am the only person who is troubled with the problem of Sylvia's rights." 

I waited. "May I suggest, Mrs.--Mrs. Abbott--that the protection of Mrs. van Tuiver's rights
can be safely left to her physicians and her husband?" 

"One would wish so, Mr. van Tuiver, but the medical books are full of evidence that women's
rights frequently need other protection." 

I perceived that he was nearing the end of his patience now. "You make it difficult for me
to talk to you," he said. "I am not accustomed to having my affairs taken out of my hands by
strangers."

"Mr. van Tuiver," I replied, "in this most critical matter it is necessary to speak without
evasion. Before her marriage Sylvia made an attempt to safeguard herself in this very matter,
and she was not dealt with fairly." 

At last I had made a hole in the mask! His face was crimson as he replied: "Madam, your knowledge
of my private affairs is most astonishing. May I inquire how you learned these things?" 

I did not reply at once, and he repeated the question. I perceived that this was to him the
most important matter--his wife's lack of reserve! 

"The problem that concerns us here," I said, "is whether you are willing to repair the error
you made. Will you go frankly to your wife and admit your responsibility----" 

He broke in, angrily: "Madam, the assumption you are making is one I see no reason for permitting."

"Mr. van Tuiver," said I, "I hoped that you would not take that line of argument. I perceive
that I have been naive." 

"Really, madam!" he replied, with cruel intent, "you have not impressed me so!" 

I continued unshaken: "In this conversation it will be necessary to assume that you are responsible
for the presence of the disease." 

"In that case," he replied, haughtily, "I can have no further part in the conversation, and
I will ask you to drop it at once." 

I might have taken him at his word and waited, confident that in the end he would have to come
and ask for terms. But that would have seemed childish to me, with the grave matters we had
to settle. After a minute or two, I said, quietly: "Mr. van Tuiver, you wish me to believe
that previous to your marriage you had always lived a chaste life?" 

He was equal to the effort it cost to control himself. He sat examining me with his cold grey
eyes. I suppose I must have been as new and monstrous a phenomenon to him as he was to me. 

At last, seeing that he would not reply, I said, coldly: "It will help us to get forward if
you will give up the idea that it is possible for you to put me off, or to escape this situation." 

"Madam," he cried, suddenly, "come to the point! What is it that you want? Money?" 

I had thought I was prepared for everything; but this was an aspect of his world which I could
hardly have been expected to allow for. I stared at him and then turned from the sight of him.
"And to think that Sylvia is married to such a man!" I whispered, half to myself. 

"Mrs. Abbott," he exclaimed, "how can anyone understand what you are driving at?" 

But I turned away without answering, and for a long time sat gazing over the water. What was
the use of pleading with such a man? What was the use of pouring out one's soul to him? I would
tell Sylvia the truth at once, and leave him to her! 

25. I heard him again, at last; he was talking to my back, his tone a trifle less aloof. "Mrs.
Abbott, do you realize that I know nothing whatever about you--your character, your purpose,
the nature of your hold upon my wife? So what means have I of judging? You threaten me with
something that seems to me entirely insane--and what can I make of it? If you wish me to understand
you, tell me in plain words what you want." 

I reflected that I was in the world, and must take it as I found it. "I have told you what
I want," I said; "but I will tell you again, if it is necessary. I hoped to persuade you that
it was your duty to go to your wife and tell her the truth." 

He took a few moments to make sure of his self-possession. "And would you explain what good
you imagine that could do?" 

"Your wife," I said, "must be put in position to protect herself in future. There is no means
of making sure in such a matter, except to tell her the truth. You love her--and you are a
man who has never been accustomed to do without what he wants." 

"Great God, woman!" he cried. "Don't you suppose one blind child is enough?" 

It was the first human word that he had spoken, and I was grateful for it. "I have already
covered that point," I said, in a low voice. "The medical books are full of painful evidence
that several blind children are often not enough. There can be no escaping the necessity--Sylvia
must know. The only question is, who shall tell her? You must realize that in urging you to
be the person, I am thinking of your good as well as hers. I will, of course, not mention that
I have had anything to do with persuading you, and so it will seem to her that you have some
realization of the wrong you have done her, some desire to atone for it, and to be honourable
and fair in your future dealings with her. When she has once been made to realize that you
are no more guilty than other men of your class--hat you have done no worse than all of them----

"You imagine she could be made to believe that?" he broke in, impatiently. 

"I will undertake to see that she believes it," I replied. 

"You seem to have great confidence in your ability to manage my wife!" 

"If you continue to resent my existence," I answered, gravely, "you will make it impossible
for me to help you." 

"Pardon me," he said--but he did not say it cordially. 

I went on: "There is much that can be said in your behalf. I realize it is quite possible that
you were not wholly to blame when you wrote to Bishop Chilton that you were fit to marry; I
know that you may have believed it--that you might even have found physicians to tell you so.
There is wide-spread ignorance on the subject of this disease. Men have the idea that the chronic
forms of it cannot be communicated to women, and it is difficult to make them realize what
modern investigations have proven. You can explain that to Sylvia, and I will back you up in
it. You were in love with her, you wanted her. Go to her now, and admit to her honestly that
you have wronged her. Beg her to forgive you, and to let you help make the best of the cruel
situation that has arisen." 

So I went on, pouring out my soul. And when I had finished, he said, "Mrs. Abbott, I have listened
patiently to your most remarkable proposition. My answer is that I must ask you to withdraw
from this intimate matter, which concerns only my wife and myself." 

He was back where we started! Trying to sweep aside these grim and terrible realities with
the wave of a conventional hand! Was this the way he met Sylvia's arguments? I felt moved to
tell him what I thought of him. 

"You are a proud man, Mr. van Tuiver--an obstinate man, I fear. It is hard for you to humble
yourself to your wife--to admit a crime and beg forgiveness. Tell me--is that why you hesitate?
Is it because you fear you will have to take second place in your family from now on--that
you will no longer be able to dominate Sylvia? Are you afraid of putting into her hands a weapon
of self-defence?" 

He made no response. 

"Very well," I said, at last. "Let me tell you, then--I will not help any man to hold such
a position in a woman's life. Women have to bear half the burdens of marriage, they pay half,
or more than half, the penalties; and so it is necessary that they have a voice in its affairs.
Until they know the truth, they can never have a voice." 

Of course my little lecture on Feminism might as well have been delivered to a sphinx. "How
stupid you are!" I cried. "Don't you know that some day Sylvia must find out the truth for
herself?" 

This was before the days when newspapers and magazines began to discuss such matters frankly;
but still there were hints to be picked up. I had a newspaper-item in my bag--the board of
health in a certain city had issued a circular giving instructions for the prevention of blindness
in newly-born infants, and discussing the causes thereof; and the United States post office
authorities had barred the circular from the mails. I said, "Suppose that item had come under
Sylvia's eyes; might it not have put her on the track. It was in her newspaper the day before
yesterday; and it was only by accident that I got hold of it first. Do you suppose that can
go on forever?" 

"Now that I am here," he replied, "I will be glad to relieve you of such responsibilities." 

Which naturally made me cross. I drew from my quiver an arrow that I thought would penetrate
his skin. "Mr. van Tuiver," I said, "a man in your position must always be an object of gossip
and scandal. Suppose some enemy were to send your wife an anonymous letter? Or suppose there
were some woman who thought that you had wronged her?"

I stopped. He gave me one keen look--and then again the impenetrable mask! "My wife will have
to do as other women in her position do--pay no attention to scandal-mongers of any sort." 

I paused, and then went on: "I believe in marriage. I consider it a sacred thing; I would do
anything in my power to protect and preserve a marriage. But I hold that it must be an equal
partnership. I would fight to make it that; and wherever I found that it could not be that,
I would say it was not marriage, but slavery, and I would fight just as hard to break it. Can
you not understand that attitude upon a woman's part?" 

He gave no sign that he could understand. But still I would not give up my battle. "Mr. van
Tuiver," I pleaded, "I am a much older person than you. I have seen a great deal of life--I
have seen suffering even worse than yours. And I am trying most earnestly to help you. Can
you not bring yourself to talk to me frankly? Perhaps you have never talked with a woman about
such matters--I mean, with a good woman. But I assure you that other men have found it possible,
and never regretted the confidence they placed in me." 

I went on to tell him about my own sons, and what I had done for them; I told him of a score
of other boys in their class who had come to me, making me a sort of mother-confessor. I do
not think that I was entirely deceived by my own eloquence--there was, I am sure, a minute
or two when he actually wavered. But then the habits of a precocious life-time reasserted themselves,
and he set his lips and told himself that he was Douglas van Tuiver. Such things might happen
in raw Western colleges, but they were not according to the Harvard manner, nor the tradition
of life in Fifth Avenue clubs. 

He could not be a boy! He had never had any boyhood, any childhood--he had been a state personage
ever since he had known that he was anything. I found myself thinking suddenly of the thin-lipped
old family lawyer, who had had much to do with shaping his character, and whom Sylvia described
to me, sitting at her dinner-table and bewailing the folly of people who "admitted things."
That was what made trouble for family lawyers--not what people did, but what they admitted.
How easy it was to ignore impertinent questions! And how few people had the wit to do it!-it
seemed as if the shade of the thin-lipped old family lawyer were standing by Douglas van Tuiver's
side. 

In a last desperate effort, I cried, "Even suppose that I grant your request, even suppose
I agree not to tell Sylvia the truth--still the day will come when you will hear from her the
point-blank question: 'Is my child blind because of this disease?' And what will you answer?" 

He said, in his cold, measured tones, "I will answer that there are a thousand ways in which
the disease can be innocently acquired." 

For a long time there was silence between us. At last he spoke again, and his voice was as
emotionless as if we had just met: "Do I understand you, madam, that if I reject your advice
and refuse to tell my wife what you call the truth, it is your intention to tell her yourself?" 

"You understand me correctly," I replied. 

"And may I ask when you intend to carry out this threat?" 

"I will wait," I said, "I will give you every chance to think it over--to consult with the
doctors, in case you wish to. I will not take the step without giving you fair notice." 

"For that I am obliged to you," he said, with a touch of irony; and that was our last word. 

26. Our island was visible in the distance and I was impatient for the time when I should be
free from this man's presence. But as we drew nearer, I noticed a boat coming out; it proved
to be one of the smaller launches heading directly for us. Neither van Tuiver nor I spoke,
but both of us watched it, and he must have been wondering, as I was, what its purpose could
be. When it was near enough, I made out that its passengers were Dr. Perrin and Dr. Gibson. 

We slowed up, and the other boat did the same, and they lay within a few feet of each other.
Dr. Perrin greeted van Tuiver, and after introducing the other man, he said: "We came out to
have a talk with you. Would you be so good as to step into this boat?" 

"Certainly," was the reply. The two launches were drawn side by side, and the transfer made;
the man who was running the smaller launch stepped into ours--evidently having been instructed
in advance. 

"You will excuse us please?" said the little doctor to me. The man who had stepped into our
launch spoke to the captain of it, and the power was then put on, and we moved away a sufficient
distance to be out of hearing. I thought this a strange procedure, but I conjectured that the
doctors had become nervous as to what I might have told van Tuiver. So I dismissed the matter
from my mind, and spent my time reviewing the exciting adventure I had just passed through. 

How much impression had I made? It was hard for me to judge such a man. He would pretend to
be less concerned than he actually was. But surely he must see that he was in my power, and
would have to give way in the end! 

There came a hail from the little vessel, and we moved alongside again. "Would you kindly step
in here with us, Mrs. Abbott?" said Dr. Perrin, and when I had done so, he ordered the boatman
to move away once more. Van Tuiver said not a word, but I noted a strained look upon his face,
and I thought the others seemed agitated also. 

As soon as the other vessel was out of hearing, Dr. Perrin turned to me and said: "Mrs. Abbott,
we came out to see Mr. van Tuiver, to warn him of a distressing accident which has just happened.
Mrs. van Tuiver was asleep in her room, and Miss Lyman and another of the nurses were in the
next room. They indiscreetly made some remarks on the subject which we have all been discussing--how
much a wife should be told about these matters, and suddenly they discovered Mrs. van Tuiver
standing in the doorway of the room." 

My gaze had turned to Douglas van Tuiver. "So she knows!" I cried.

"We don't think that she knows, but she has a suspicion and is trying to find out. She asked
to see you." 

"Ah, yes!" I said. 

"She declared that she wished to see you as soon as you returned--that she would not see anyone
else, not even Mr. van Tuiver. You will understand that this portends trouble for all of us.
We judged it necessary to have a consultation about the matter."

I bowed in assent. 

"Now, Mrs. Abbot," began the little doctor, solemnly, "there is no longer a question of abstract
ideas, but of an immediate emergency. We feel that we, as the physicians in charge of the case,
have the right to take control of the matter. We do not see----" 

"Dr. Perrin," I said, "let us come to the point. You want me to spin a new web of deception?" 

"We are of the opinion, Mrs. Abbott, that in such matters the physicians in charge----" 

"Excuse me," I said, quickly, "we have been over all this before, and we know that we disagree.
Has Mr. van Tuiver told you of the proposition I have just made?" 

"You mean for him to go to his wife----" 

"Yes." 

"He has told us of this, and has offered to do it. We are of the opinion that it would be a
grave mistake." 

"It has been three weeks since the birth of the baby," I said. "Surely all danger of fever
is past. I will grant you that if it were a question of telling her deliberately, it might
be better to put it off for a while. I would have been willing to wait for months, but for
the fact that I dreaded something like the present situation. Now that it has happened, surely
it is best to use our opportunity while all of us are here and can persuade her to take the
kindest attitude towards her husband." 

"Madam!" broke in Dr. Gibson. (He was having difficulty in controlling his excitement.) "You
are asking us to overstep the bounds of our professional duty. It is not for the physician
to decide upon the attitude a wife should take toward her husband." 

"Dr. Gibson," I replied, "that is what you propose to do, only you wish to conceal the fact.
You would force Mrs. van Tuiver to accept your opinion of what a wife's duty is." 

Dr. Perrin took command once more. "Our patient has asked for you, and she looks to you for
guidance. You must put aside your own convictions and think of her health. You are the only
person who can calm her, and surely it is your duty to do so!" 

"I know that I might go in and lie again to my friend, but she knows too much to be deceived
for very long. You know what a mind she has--a lawyer's mind! How can I persuade her that the
nurses--why, I do not even know what she heard the nurses say!" 

"We have that all written down for you," put in Dr. Perrin, quickly.

"You have their recollection of it, no doubt--but suppose they have forgotten some of it? Sylvia
has not forgotten, you may be sure--every word is burned with fire into her brain. She has
put with this everything she ever heard on the subject--the experience of her friend, Harriet
Atkinson-all that I've told her in the past about such things----" 

"Ah!" growled Dr. Gibson. "That's it! If you had not meddled in the beginning----" 

"Now, now!" said the other, soothingly. "You ask me to relieve you of the embarrassment of
this matter. I quite agree with Mrs. Abbott that there is too much ignorance about these things,
but she must recognise, I am sure, that this is not the proper moment for enlightening Mrs.
van Tuiver." 

"I do not recognise it at all," I said. "If her husband will go to her and tell her humbly
and truthfully----" 

"You are talking madness!" cried the old man, breaking loose again. "She would be hysterical--she
would regard him as something loathsome--some kind of criminal----" 

"Of course she would be shocked," I said, "but she has the coolest head of anyone I know--I
do not think of any man I would trust so fully to take a rational attitude in the end. We can
explain to her what extenuating circumstances there are, and she will have to recognise them.
She will see that we are considering her rights----"

"Her rights!" The old man fairly snorted the words. 

"Now, now, Dr. Gibson!" interposed the other. "You asked me----" 

"I know! I know! But as the older of the physicians in charge of this case----" 

Dr. Perrin managed to frown him down, and went on trying to placate me. But through the argument
I could hear the old man muttering in his collar a kind of double bass pizzicato: "Suffragettes!
Fanatics! Hysteria! Woman's Rights!" 

27. The breeze was feeble, and the sun was blazing hot, but nevertheless I made myself listen
patiently for a while. They had said it all to me, over and over again; but it seemed that
Dr. Perrin could not be satisfied until it had been said in Douglas van Tuiver's presence. 

"Dr. Perrin," I exclaimed, "even supposing we make the attempt to deceive her, we have not
one plausible statement to make----" 

"You are mistaken, Mrs. Abbott," said he. "We have the perfectly well-known fact that this
disease is often contracted in ways which involve no moral blame. And in this case I believe
I am in position to state how the accident happened." 

"What do you mean?" 

"I don't know whether you heard that just before Mrs. van Tuiver's confinement, I was called
away to one of the other keys to attend a negro-woman. And since this calamity has befallen
us, I have realized that I was possibly not as careful in sterilizing my instruments as I might
have been. It is of course a dreadful thing for any physician to have to believe----" 

He stopped, and there was a long silence. I gazed from one to another of the men. Two of them
met my gaze; one did not. "He is going to let you say that?" I whispered, at last. 

"Honour and fairness compel me to say it, Mrs. Abbott. I believe----" 

But I interrupted him. "Listen to me, Dr. Perrin. You are a chivalrous gentleman, and you think
you are helping a man in desperate need. But I say that anyone who would permit you to tell
such a tale is a contemptible coward!" 

"Madam," cried Dr. Gibson, furiously, "there is a limit even to a woman's rights!" 

A silence followed. At last I resumed, in a low voice, "You gentlemen have your code: you protect
the husband--you protect him at all hazards. I could understand this, if he were innocent of
the offence in question; I could understand it if there were any possibility of his being innocent.
But how can you protect him, when you know that he is guilty?" 

"There can be no question of such knowledge!" cried the old doctor. 

"I have no idea," I said, "how much he has admitted to you; but let me remind you of one circumstance,
which is known to Dr. Perrin--that I came to this place with the definite information that
symptoms of the disease were to be anticipated. Dr. Perrin knows that I told that to Dr. Overton
in New York. Has he informed you of it?" 

There was an awkward interval. I glanced at van Tuiver, and I saw that he was leaning forward,
staring at me. I thought he was about to speak, when Dr. Gibson broke in, excitedly, "All this
is beside the mark! We have a serious emergency to face, and we are not getting anywhere. As
the older of the physicians in charge of this case----" 

And he went on to give me a lecture on the subject of authority. He talked for five minutes,
ten minutes--I lost all track of the time. I had suddenly begun to picture how I would act
and what I would say when I went into Sylvia's room. What a state must Sylvia be in, while
we sat out here in the blazing mid-day sun, discussing her right to freedom and knowledge! 

28. "I have always been positive," Dr. Gibson was saying, "but the present discussion has made
me more positive than ever. As the older of the physicians in charge of this case, I say most
emphatically that the patient shall not be told!" 

I could not stand him any longer. "I am going to tell the patient," I said. 

"You shall not tell her!" 

"But how will you prevent me?" 

"You shall not see her!" 

"But she is determined to see me!" 

"She will be told that you are not there." 

"And how long do you imagine that that will satisfy her?" 

There was a pause. They looked at van Tuiver, expecting him to speak. And so I heard once more
his cold, deliberate voice. "We have done all we can. There can no longer be any question as
to the course to be taken. Mrs. Abbott will not return to my home." 

"What?" I cried. I stared at him, aghast. "What do you mean?" 

"I mean what I say--that you will not be taken back to the island." 

"But where will I be taken?" 

"You will be taken to the mainland." 

I stared at the others. No one gave a sign. At last I whispered, "You would dare?" 

"You leave us no other alternative," replied the master. 

"You--you will practically kidnap me!" My voice must have been rather wild at that moment. 

"You left my home of your own free will. I think I need hardly point out to you that I am not
compelled to invite you back to it." 

"And what will Sylvia----" I stopped; appalled at the vista the words opened up. 

"My wife," said van Tuiver, "will ultimately choose between her husband and her most remarkable
acquaintance." 

"And you gentlemen?" I turned to the others. "You would give your sanction to this outrageous
action?" 

"As the older of the physicians in charge of this case----" began Dr. Gibson. 

I turned to van Tuiver again. "When your wife finds out what you have done to me--what will
you answer?" 

"We will deal with that situation when we come to it." 

"Of course," I said, "you understand that sooner or later I shall get word to her!" 

He answered, "We shall assume from now on that you are a mad woman, and shall take our precautions
accordingly." 

Again there was a silence. 

"The launch will return to the mainland," said van Tuiver at last. "It will remain there until
Mrs. Abbott sees fit to go ashore. May I ask if she has sufficient money in her purse to take
her to New York?" 

I could not help laughing. The thing was so wild--and yet I could see that from their point
of view it was the only thing to do. "Mrs. Abbott is not certain that she is going back to
New York," I replied. "If she does go, it will not be with Mr. van Tuiver's money." 

"One thing more," said Dr. Perrin. It was the first time he had spoken since van Tuiver's incredible
announcement. "I trust, Mrs. Abbott, that this unfortunate situation may at all costs be concealed
from servants, and from the world in general." 

From which I realized how badly I had them frightened. They actually saw me making physical
resistance! 

"Dr. Perrin," I replied, "I am acting in this matter for my friend. I will add this: that I
believe that you are letting yourself be overborne, and that you will regret it some day." 

He made no answer. Douglas van Tuiver put an end to the discussion by rising and signalling
the other launch. When it had come alongside, he said to the captain, "Mrs. Abbott is going
back to the railroad. You will take her at once." 

Then he waited; I was malicious enough to give him an anxious moment before I rose. Dr. Perrin
offered me his hand; and Dr. Gibson said, with a smile, "Good-bye, Mrs. Abbott. I'm sorry you
can't stay with us any longer." 

I think it was something to my credit that I was able to play out the game before the boatmen.
"I am sorry, too," I countered. "I am hoping I shall be able to return." 

And then came the real ordeal. "Good-bye, Mrs. Abbott," said Douglas van Tuiver, with his stateliest
bow; and I managed to answer him! 

As I took my seat, he beckoned his secretary. There was a whispered consultation for a minute
or two, and then the master returned to the smaller launch with the doctors. He gave the word,
and the two vessels set out--one to the key, and the other to the railroad. The secretary went
in the one with me! 

29. And here ends a certain stage of my story. I have described Sylvia as I met her and judged
her; and if there be any reader who has been irked by this method, who thinks of me as a crude
and pushing person, disposed to meddle in the affairs of others, here is where that reader
will have his satisfaction and revenge. For if ever a troublesome puppet was jerked suddenly
off the stage--if ever a long-winded orator was effectively snuffed out--I was that puppet
and that orator. I stop and think--shall I describe how I paced up and down the pier, respectfully
but emphatically watched by the secretary? And all the melodramatic plots I conceived, the
muffled oars and the midnight visits to my Sylvia? My sense of humour forbids it. For a while
now I shall take the hint and stay in the background of this story. I shall tell the experiences
of Sylvia as Sylvia herself told them to me long afterwards; saying no more about my own fate--save
that I swallowed my humiliation and took the next train to New York, a far sadder and wiser
social-reformer! 

BOOK III 

SYLVIA AS REBEL 

1. Long afterwards Sylvia told me about what happened between her husband and herself; how
desperately she tried to avoid discussing the issue with him--out of her very sense of fairness
to him. But he came to her room, in spite of her protest, and by his implacable persistence
he made her hear what he had to say. When he had made up his mind to a certain course of action,
he was no more to be resisted than a glacier. 

"Sylvia," he said, "I know that you are upset by what has happened. I make every allowance
for your condition; but there are some statements that I must be permitted to make, and there
are simply no two ways about it--you must get yourself together and hear me." 

"Let me see Mary Abbott!" she insisted, again and again. "It may not be what you want--but
I demand to see her." 

So at last he said, "You cannot see Mrs. Abbott. She has gone back to New York." And then,
at her look of consternation: "That is one of the things I have to talk to you about." 

"Why has she gone back?" cried Sylvia. 

"Because I was unwilling to have her here." 

"You mean you sent her away?" 

"I mean that she understood she was no longer welcome." 

Sylvia drew a quick breath and turned away to the window. 

He took advantage of the opportunity to come near, and draw up a chair for her. "Will you not
pleased to be seated," he said. And at last she turned, rigidly, and seated herself. 

"The time has come," he declared, "when we have to settle this question of Mrs. Abbott, and
her influence upon your life. I have argued with you about such matters, but now what has happened
makes further discussion impossible. You were brought up among people of refinement, and it
has been incredible to me that you should be willing to admit to your home such a woman as
this--not merely of the commonest birth, but without a trace of the refinement to which you
have been accustomed. And now you see the consequences of your having brought such a person
into our life!" 

He paused. She made no sound, and her gaze was riveted upon the window-curtain. 

"She happens to be here," he went on, "at a time when a dreadful calamity befalls us--when
we are in need of the utmost sympathy and consideration. Here is an obscure and terrible affliction,
which has baffled the best physicians in the country; but this ignorant farmer's wife considers
that she knows all about it. She proceeds to discuss it with every one--sending your poor aunt
almost into hysterics, setting the nurses to gossiping--God knows what else she has done, or
what she will do, before she gets through. I don't pretend to know her ultimate purpose--blackmail,
possibly----" 

"Oh, how can you!" she broke out, involuntarily. "How can you say such a thing about a friend
of mine?" 

"I might answer with another question--how can you have such a friend? A woman who has cast
off every restraint, every consideration of decency--and yet is able to persuade a daughter
of the Castlemans to make her an intimate! Possibly she is an honest fanatic. Dr. Perrin tells
me she was the wife of a brutal farmer, who mistreated her. No doubt that has embittered her
against men, and accounts for her mania. You see that her mind leaped at once to the most obscene
and hideous explanation of this misfortune of ours--an explanation which pleased her because
it blackened the honour of a man." 

He stopped again. Sylvia's eyes had moved back to the window-curtain. 

"I am not going to insult your ears," he said, "with discussions of her ideas. The proper person
to settle such matters is a physician, and if you wish Dr. Perrin to do so, he will tell you
what he knows about the case. But I wish you to realize somehow what this thing has meant to
me. I have managed to control myself----" He saw her shut her lips more tightly. "The doctors
tell me that I must not excite you. But picture the situation. I come to my home, bowed down
with grief for you and for my child. And this mad woman thrusts herself forward, shoves aside
your aunt and your physicians, and comes in the launch to meet me at the station. And then
she accuses me of being criminally guilty of the blindness of my child--of having wilfully
deceived my wife! Think of it--that is my welcome to my home!" 

"Douglas," she cried, wildly, "Mary Abbott would not have done such a thing without reason----" 

"I do not purpose to defend myself," he said, coldly. "If you are bent upon filling your mind
with such matters, go to Dr. Perrin. He will tell you that he, as a physician, knows that the
charge against me is preposterous. He will tell you that even granting that the cause of the
blindness is what Mrs. Abbott guesses, there are a thousand ways in which such an infection
can be contracted, which are perfectly innocent, involving no guilt on the part of anyone.
Every doctor knows that drinking-cups, wash-basins, towels, even food, can be contaminated.
He knows that any person can bring the affliction into a home--servants, nurses, even the doctors
themselves. Has your mad woman friend told you any of that?" 

"She has told me nothing. You know that I have had no opportunity to talk with her. I only
know what the nurses believe----" 

"They believe what Mrs. Abbott told them. That is absolutely all the reason they have for believing
anything!" 

She did not take that quite as he expected. "So Mary Abbott did tell them!" she cried. 

He hurried on: "The poisonous idea of a vulgar Socialist woman--this is the thing upon which
you base your suspicions of your husband!" 

"Oh!" she whispered, half to herself. "Mary Abbott did say it!" 

"What if she did?" 

"Oh, Douglas, Mary would never have said such a thing to a nurse unless she had been certain
of it!" 

"Certain?" he broke out. "What certainty could she imagine she had? She is a bitter, frantic
woman--a divorced woman--who jumped to the conclusion that pleased her, because it involved
the humiliation of a rich man." 

He went on, his voice trembling with suppressed passion: "When you know the real truth, the
thing becomes a nightmare. You, a delicate woman, lying here helpless--the victim of a cruel
misfortune, and with the life of an afflicted infant depending upon your peace of mind. Your
physicians planning day and night to keep you quiet, to keep the dreadful, unbearable truth
from you----" 

"Oh, what truth? That's the terrifying thing--to know that people are keeping things from me!
What was it they were keeping?" 

"First of all, the fact that the baby was blind; and then the cause of it----" 

"Then they do know the cause?" 

"They don't know positively--no one can know positively. But poor Dr. Perrin had a dreadful
idea, that he had to hide from you because otherwise he could not bear to continue in your
house----" 

"Why, Douglas! What do you mean?" 

"I mean that a few days before your confinement, he was called away to the case of a negro-woman--you
knew that, did you not?" 

"Go on." 

"He had the torturing suspicion that possibly he was not careful enough in sterilizing his
instruments, and that he, your friend and protector, may be the man who is to blame." 

"Oh! Oh!" Her voice was a whisper of horror. 

"That is one of the secrets your doctors have been trying to hide." 

There was silence, while her eyes searched his face. Suddenly she stretched out her hands to
him, crying desperately: "Oh, is this true?" 

He did not take the outstretched hands. "Since I am upon the witness-stand, I have to be careful
of my replies. It is what Dr. Perrin tells me. Whether the explanation he gives is the true
one--whether he himself, or the nurse he recommended, may have brought the infection----" 

"It couldn't have been the nurse," she said quickly. "She was so careful----" 

He did not allow her to finish. "You seem determined," he said, coldly, "to spare everyone
but your husband." 

"No!" she protested, "I have tried hard to be fair--to be fair to both you and my friend. Of
course, if Mary Abbott was mistaken, I have done you a great injustice--" 

He saw that she was softening, and that it was safe for him to be a man. "It has been with
some difficulty that I have controlled myself throughout this experience," he said, rising
to his feet. "If you do not mind, I think I will not carry the discussion any further, as I
don't feel that I can trust myself to listen to a defence of that woman from your lips. I will
only tell you my decision in the matter. I have never before used my authority as a husband;
I hoped I should never have to use it. But the time has come when you will have to choose between
Mary Abbott and your husband. I will positively not tolerate your corresponding with her, or
having anything further to do with her. I take my stand upon that, and nothing will move me.
I will not even permit of any discussion of the subject. And now I hope you will excuse me.
Dr. Perrin wishes me to tell you that either he or Dr. Gibson are ready at any time to advise
you about these matters, which have been forced upon your mind against their judgment and protests."

2. You can see that it was no easy matter for Sylvia to get at the truth. The nurses, already
terrified because of their indiscretion, had been first professionally thrashed, and then carefully
drilled as to the answers they were to make. But as a matter of fact they did not have to make
any answers at all, because Sylvia was unwilling to reveal to anyone her distrust of her husband. 

One of two things was certain: either she had been horribly wronged by her husband, or now
she was horribly wronging him. Which was the truth? Was it conceivable that I, Mary Abbott,
would leap to a false conclusion about such a matter? She knew that I felt intensely, almost
fanatically, on the subject, and also that I had been under great emotional stress. Was it
possible that I would have voiced mere suspicions to the nurses? Sylvia could not be sure,
for my standards were as strange to her as my Western accent. She knew that I talked freely
to everyone about such matters--and would be as apt to select the nurses as the ladies of the
house. On the other hand, how was it conceivable that I could know positively? To recognize
a disease might be easy; but to specify from what source it had come--that was surely not in
my power! 

They did not leave her alone for long. Mrs. Tuis came in, with her feminine terrors. "Sylvia,
you must know that you are treating your husband dreadfully! He has gone away down the beach
by himself, and has not even seen his baby!" 

"Aunt Varina--" she began, "won't you please go away?" 

But the other rushed on: "Your husband comes here, broken with grief because of this affliction;
and you overwhelm him with the most cruel and wicked reproaches with charges you have no way
in the world of proving----" And the old lady caught her niece by the hand. "My child! Come,
do your duty!" 

"My duty?" 

"Make yourself fit, and take your husband to see his baby." 

"Oh, I can't!" cried Sylvia. "I don't want to be there when he sees her! If I loved him--"
Then, seeing her aunt's face of horror, she was seized with a sudden impulse of pity, and caught
the poor old lady in her arms. "Aunt Varina," she said, "I am making you suffer, I know--I
am making everyone suffer! But if you only knew how I am suffering myself! How can I know what
to do." 

Mrs. Tuis was weeping; but quickly she got herself together, and answered in a firm voice,
"Your old auntie can tell you what to do. You must come to your senses, my child--you must
let your reason prevail. Get your face washed, make yourself presentable, and come and take
your husband to see your baby. Women have to suffer, dear; we must not shirk our share of life's
burdens." 

"There is no danger of my shirking," said Sylvia, bitterly. 

"Come, dear, come," pleaded Mrs. Tuis. She was trying to lead the girl to the mirror. If only
she could be made to see how distraught and disorderly she looked! "Let me help you to dress,
dear--you know how much better it always makes you feel." 

Sylvia laughed, a trifle wildly--but Mrs. Tuis had dealt with hysteria before. "What would
you like to wear?" she demanded. And then, without waiting for an answer, "Let me choose something.
One of your pretty frocks." 

"A pretty frock, and a seething volcano underneath! That is your idea of a woman's life!" 

The other responded very gravely, "A pretty frock, my dear, and a smile--instead of a vulgar
scene, and ruin and desolation afterwards." 

Sylvia made no reply. Yes, that was the life of woman--her old aunt knew! And her old aunt
knew also the psychology of her sex. She did not go on talking about pretty frocks in the abstract;
she turned at once to the clothes-closet, and began laying pretty frocks upon the bed! 

3. Sylvia emerged upon the "gallery," clad in dainty pink muslin, her beautiful shiny hair
arranged under a semi-invalid's cap of pink maline. Her face was pale, and the big red-brown
eyes were hollow; but she was quiet, and apparently mistress of herself again. She even humoured
Aunt Varina by leaning slightly upon her feeble arm, while the maid hastened to place her chair
in a shaded spot. 

Her husband came, and the doctors; the tea-things were brought, and Aunt Varina poured tea,
a-flutter with excitement. They talked about the comparative temperatures of New York and the
Florida Keys, and about hedges of jasmine to shade the gallery from the evening sun. And after
a while, Aunt Varina arose, explaining that she would prepare Elaine for her father's visit.
In the doorway she stood for a moment, smiling upon the pretty picture; it was all settled
now--the outward forms had been observed, and the matter would end, as such matters should
end between husband and wife--a few tears, a few reproaches, and then a few kisses. 

The baby was made ready, with a new dress, and a fresh silk bandage to cover the pitiful, lifeless
eyes. Aunt Varina had found pleasure in making these bandages; she made them soft and pretty--less
hygienic, perhaps, but avoiding the suggestion of the hospital. 

When Sylvia and her husband came into the room, the faces of both of them were white. Sylvia
stopped near the door-way; and poor Aunt Varina fluttered about, in agony of soul. When van
Tuiver went to the cradle, she hurried to his side, and sought to awaken the little one with
gentle nudges. Quite unexpectedly to her, van Tuiver sought to pick up the infant; she helped
him, and he stood, holding it awkwardly, as if afraid it might go to pieces in his arms. 

So any man might appear, with his first infant; but to Sylvia it seemed the most tragic sight
she had ever seen in her life. She gave a low cry, "Douglas!" and he turned, and she saw his
face was working with the feeling he was ashamed for anyone to see. "Oh, Douglas," she whispered,
"I'm so sorry for you!" At which Aunt Varina decided that it was time for her to make her escape. 

4. But the trouble between these two were not such as could be settled by any burst of emotion.
The next day they were again in a dispute, for he had come to ask her word of honour that she
would never see me again, and would give him my letters to be returned unopened. This last
was what she had let her father do in the case of Frank Shirley; and she had become certain
in her own mind that she had done wrong. 

But he was insistent in his demand; declaring that it should be obvious to her there could
be no peace of mind for him so long as my influence continued in her life. 

"But surely," protested Sylvia, "to hear Mary Abbott's explanation----" 

"There can be no explanation that is not an insult to your husband, and to those who are caring
for you. I am speaking in this matter not merely for myself, but for your physicians, who know
this woman, heard her menaces and her vulgarity. It is their judgment that you should be protected
at all hazards from further contact with her." 

"Douglas," she argued, "you must realize that I am in distress of mind about this matter----" 

"I certainly realize that." 

"And if you are thinking of my welfare, you should choose a course that would set my mind at
rest. But when you come to me and ask me that I should not even read a letter from my friend--don't
you realize what you suggest to me, that there is something you are afraid for me to know?" 

"I do not attempt to deny my fear of this woman. I have seen how she has been able to poison
your mind with suspicions----" 

"Yes, Douglas--but now that has been done. What else is there to fear from her?" 

"I have no idea what. She is a bitter, jealous woman, with a mind full of hatred; and you are
an innocent girl, who cannot judge about these matters. What idea have you of the world in
which you live, of the slanders to which a man in your husband's position is exposed?" 

"I am not quite such a child as that----" 

"You have simply no idea, I tell you. I remember your consternation when we first met, and
I told you about the woman who had written me a begging letter, and got an interview with me,
and then started screaming, and refused to leave the house till I had paid her a lot of money.
You had never heard such stories, had you? Yet it is the kind of thing that is happening to
rich men continually; it was one of the first rules I was taught, never to let myself be alone
with a strange woman, no matter of what age, or under what circumstances." 

"But, I assure you, I would not listen to such people----" 

"You are asking right now to listen! And you would be influenced by her--you could not help
it, any more than you can help being distressed about what she has already said. She intimated
to Dr. Perrin that she believed that I had been a man of depraved life, and that my wife and
child were now paying the penalty. How can I tell what vile stories concerning me she may not
have heard? How could I have any peace of mind while I knew that she was free to pour them
into your ear?" 

Sylvia sat dumb with questions she would not utter, hovering on the tip of her tongue. 

He took her silence for acquiesence, and went on, quickly, "Let me give you an illustration.
A friend of mine whom you know well--I might as well tell you his name, it was Freddie Atkins--was
at supper with some theatrical women; and one of them, not having any idea that Freddie knew
me, proceeded to talk about me, and how she had met me, and where we had been together--about
my yacht, and my castle in Scotland, and I don't know what all else. It seems that this woman
had been my mistress for several years; she told quite glibly about me and my habits. Freddie
got the woman's picture, on some pretext or other, and brought it to me; I had never laid eyes
on her in my life. He could hardly believe it, and to prove it to him I offered to meet the
woman, under another name. We sat in a restaurant, and she told the tale to Freddie and myself
together--until finally he burst out laughing, and told her who I was." 

He paused, to let this sink in. "Now, suppose your friend, Mary Abbott, had met that woman!
I don't imagine she is particularly careful whom she associates with; and suppose she had come
and told you that she knew such a woman--what would you have said? Can you deny that the tale
would have made an impression on you? Yet, I've not the least doubt there are scores of women
who made such tales about me a part of their stock in trade; there are thousands of women whose
fortunes would be made for life if they could cause such a tale to be believed. And imagine
how well-informed they would be, if anyone were to ask them concerning my habits, and the reason
why our baby is blind! I tell you, when the rumour concerning our child has begun to spread,
there will be ten thousand people in New York city who will know of first-hand, personal knowledge
exactly how it happened, and how you took it, and everything that I said to you about it. There
will be sneers in the society-papers, from New York to San Francisco; and smooth-tongued gentlemen
calling, to give us hints that we can stop these sneers by purchasing a de-luxe edition of
a history of our ancestors for six thousand dollars. There will be well-meaning and beautiful-souled
people who will try to get you to confide in them, and then use their knowledge of your domestic
unhappiness to blackmail you; there will be threats of law-suits from people who will claim
that they have contracted a disease from you or your child--your laundress, perhaps, or your
maid, or one of these nurses----" 

"Oh, stop! stop!" she cried. 

"I am quite aware," he said, quietly, "that these things are not calculated to preserve the
peace of mind of a young mother. You are horrified when I tell you of them--yet you clamour
for the right to have Mrs. Abbott tell you of them! I warn you, Sylvia--you have married a
rich man, who is exposed to the attacks of cunning and unscrupulous enemies. You, as his wife,
are exactly as much exposed--possibly even more so. Therefore when I see you entering into
what I know to be a dangerous intimacy, I must have the right to say to you, This shall stop,
and I tell you, there can never be any safety or peace of mind for either of us, so long as
you attempt to deny me that right." 

5. Dr. Gibson took his departure three or four days later; and before he went, he came to give
her his final blessing; talking to her, as he phrased it, "like a Dutch uncle." "You must understand,"
he said, "I am almost old enough to be your grandfather. I have four sons, anyone of whom might
have married you, if they had had the good fortune to be in Castleman County at the critical
time. So you must let me be frank with you." 

Sylvia indicated that she was willing. 

"We don't generally talk to women about these matters; because they've no standard by which
to judge, and they almost always fly off and have hysterics. Their case seems to them exceptional
and horrible, their husbands the blackest criminals in the whole tribe."

He paused for a moment. "Now, Mrs. van Tuiver, the disease which has made your baby blind is
probably what we call gonorrhea. When it gets into the eyes, it has very terrible results.
But it doesn't often get into the eyes, and for the most part it's a trifling affair, that
we don't worry about. I know there are a lot of new-fangled notions, but I'm an old man, with
experience of my own, and I have to have things proven to me. I know that with as much of this
disease as we doctors see, if it was a deadly disease, there'd be nobody left alive in the
world. As I say, I don't like to discuss it with women; but it was not I who forced the matter
upon your attention----" 

"Pray go on, Dr. Gibson," she said. "I really wish to know all that you will tell me." 

"The question has come up, how was this disease brought to your child? Dr. Perrin suggested
that possibly he--you understand his fear; and possibly he is correct. But it seems to me an
illustration of the unwisdom of a physician's departing from his proper duty, which is to cure
people. If you wish to find out who brought a disease, what you need is a detective. I know,
of course, that there are people who can combine the duties of physician and detective--and
that without any previous preparation or study of either profession." 

He waited for this irony to sink in; and Sylvia also waited, patiently. 

At last he resumed, "The idea has been planted in your mind that your husband brought the trouble;
and that idea is sure to stay there and fester. So it becomes necessary for someone to talk
to you straight. Let me tell you that eight men out of ten have had this disease at some time
in their lives; also that very few of them were cured of it when they thought they were. You
have a cold: and then next month, you say the cold is gone. So it is, for practical purposes.
But if I take a microscope, I find the germs of the cold still in your membranes, and I know
that you can give a cold, and a bad cold, to some one else who is sensitive. It is true that
you may go through all the rest of your life without ever being entirely rid of that cold.
You understand me?" 

"Yes," said Sylvia, in a low voice. 

"I say eight out of ten. Estimates would differ. Some doctors would say seven out of ten--and
some actual investigations have shown nine out of ten. And understand me, I don't mean bar-room
loafers and roustabouts. I mean your brothers, if you have any, your cousins, your best friends,
the men who came to make love to you, and whom you thought of marrying. If you had found it
out about any one of them, of course you'd have cut the acquaintance; yet you'd have been doing
an injustice--for if you had done that to all who'd ever had the disease, you might as well
have retired to a nunnery at once." 

The old gentleman paused again; then frowning at her under his bushy eye-brows, he exclaimed,
"I tell you, Mrs. van Tuiver, you're doing your husband a wrong. Your husband loves you, and
he's a good man--I've had some talks with him, and I know he's not got nearly so much on his
conscience as the average husband. I'm a Southern man, and I know these gay young bloods you've
danced and flirted with all your young life. Do you think if you went probing into their secret
affairs, you'd have had much pleasure in their company afterwards? I tell you again, you're
doing your husband a wrong! You're doing something that very few men would stand, as patiently
as he has stood it so far." 

All this time Sylvia had given no sign. So the old gentleman began to feel a trifle uneasy.
"Mind you," he said, "I'm not saying that men ought to be like that. They deserve a good hiding,
most of them--they're very few of them fit to associate with a good woman. I've always said
that no man is really good enough for a good woman. But my point is that when you select one
to punish, you select not the guiltiest one, but simply the one who's had the misfortune to
fall under suspicion. And he knows that's not fair; he'd have to be more than human if deep
in his soul he did not bitterly resent it. You understand me?" 

"I understand," she replied, in the same repressed voice. 

And the doctor rose and laid his hand on her shoulder. "I'm going home," he said--"very probably
we'll never meet each other again. I see you making a great mistake, laying up unhappiness
for yourself in the future; and I wish to prevent it if I can. I wish to persuade you to face
the facts of the world in which we live. So I am going to tell you something that I never expected
I should tell to a lady." 

He was looking her straight in the eye. "You see me--I'm an old man, and I seem fairly respectable
to you. You've laughed at me some, but even so, you've found it possible to get along with
me without too great repugnance. Well, I've had this disease; I've had it, and nevertheless
I've raised six fine, sturdy children. More than that-- I'm not free to name anybody else,
but I happen to know positively that among the men your husband employs on this island there
are two who have the disease right now. And the next charming and well-bred gentleman you are
introduced to, just reflect that there are at least eight chances in ten that he has had the
disease, and perhaps three or four in ten that he has it at the minute he's shaking hands with
you. And now you think that over, and stop tormenting your poor husband!" 

6. One of the first things I did when I reached New York was to send a little love-letter to
Sylvia. I said nothing that would distress her; I merely assured her that she was in my thoughts,
and that I should look to see her in New York, when we could have a good talk. I put this in
a plain envelope, with a typewritten address, and registered it in the name of my stenographer.
The receipt came back, signed by an unknown hand, probably the secretary's. I found out later
that the letter never got to Sylvia. 

No doubt it was the occasion of renewed efforts upon her husband's part to obtain from her
the promise he desired. He would not be put off with excuses; and at last he got her answer,
in the shape of a letter which she told him she intended to mail to me. In this letter she
announced her decision that she owed it to her baby to avoid all excitement and nervous strain
during the time that she was nursing it. Her husband had sent for the yacht, and they were
going to Scotland, and in the winter to the Mediterranean and the Nile. Meantime she would
not correspond with me; but she wished me to know that there was to be no break in our friendship,
and that she would see me upon her return to New York. 

"There is much that has happened that I do not understand," she added. "For the present, however,
I shall try to dismiss it from my mind. I am sure you will agree that it is right for me to
give a year to being a mother; as I wish you to feel perfectly at peace in the meantime, I
mention that it is my intention to be a mother only, and not a wife. I am showing this letter
to my husband before I mail it, so that he may know exactly what I am doing, and what I have
decided to do in the future." 

"Of course," he said, after reading this, "you may send the letter, if you insist--but you
must realize that you are only putting off the issue." 

She made no reply; and at last he asked, "You mean you intend to defy me in this matter?" 

"I mean," she replied, quietly, "that for the sake of my baby I intend to put off all discussion
for a year." 

7. I figured that I should hear from Claire Lepage about two days after I reached New York;
and sure enough, she called me on the 'phone. "I want to see you at once," she declared; and
her voice showed the excitement under which she was labouring. 

"Very well," I said, "come down." 

She entered my little living-room. It was the first time she had ever visited me, but she did
not stop for a glance about her; she did not even stop to sit down. "Why didn't you tell me
that you knew Sylvia Castleman?" she cried. 

"My dear woman," I replied, "I was not under the least obligation to tell you." 

"You have betrayed me!" she exclaimed, wildly. 

"Come, Claire," I said, after I had looked her in the eye a bit to calm her. "You know quite
well that I was under no bond of secrecy. And, besides, I haven't done you any harm." 

"Why did you do it?" I regret to add that she swore. 

"I never once mentioned your name, Claire." 

"How much good do you imagine that does me? They have managed to find out everything. They
caught me in a trap." 

I reminded myself that it would not do to show any pity for her. "Sit down, Claire," I said.
"Tell me about it." 

She cried, in a last burst of anger, "I don't want to talk to you!" 

"All right," I answered. "But then, why did you come?" 

There was no reply to that. She sat down. "They were too much for me!" she lamented. "If I'd
had the least hint, I might have held my own. As it was--I let them make a fool of me." 

"You are talking hieroglyphics to me. Who are 'they'?" 

"Douglas, and that old fox, Rossiter Torrance." 

"Rossiter Torrance?" I repeated the name, and then suddenly remembered. The thin-lipped old
family lawyer! 

"He sent up his card, and said he'd been sent to see me by Mary Abbot. Of course, I had no
suspicion--I fell right into the trap. We talked about you for a while--he even got me to tell
him where you lived; and then at last he told me that he hadn't come from you at all, but had
merely wanted to find out if I knew you, and how intimate we were. He had been sent by Douglas;
and he wanted to know right away how much I had told you about Douglas, and why I had done
it. Of course, I denied that I had told anything. Heavens, what a time he gave me!" 

Claire paused. "Mary, how could you have played such a trick upon me?" 

"I had no thought of doing you any harm," I replied. "I was simply trying to help Sylvia." 

"To help her at any expense!" 

"Tell me, what will come of it? Are you afraid they'll cut off your allowance?" 

"That's the threat." 

"But will they carry it out?" 

She sat, gazing at me resentfully. "I don't know whether I ought to trust you any more," she said. 

"Do what you please about that," I replied. "I don't want to urge you." 

She hesitated a bit longer, and then decided to throw herself upon my mercy. They would not
dare to carry out their threat, so long as Sylvia had not found out the whole truth. So now
she had come to beg me to tell no more than I had already told. She was utterly abject about
it. I had pretended to be her friend, I had won her confidence and listened to her confessions;
how did I wish to ruin her utterly, to have her cast out on the street? 

Poor Claire! I said in the early part of my story that she understood the language of idealism;
but I wonder what I have told about her that justifies this. The truth is, she was going down
so fast that already she seemed a different person; and she had been frightened by the thin-lipped
old family lawyer, so that she was incapable of even a decent pretence. 

"Claire," I said, "there is no need for you to go on like this. I have not the slightest intention
of telling Sylvia about you. I cannot imagine the circumstances that would make me want to
tell her. Even if I should do it, I would tell her in confidence, so that her husband would
never have any idea----" 

She went almost wild at this. To imagine that a woman would keep such a confidence! As if she
would not throw it at her husband's head the first time they quarreled! Besides, if Sylvia
knew this truth, she might leave him; and if she left him, Claire's hold on his money would
be gone. 

Over this money we had a long and lachrymose interview. And at the end of it, there she sat
gazing into space, baffled and bewildered. What kind of a woman was I? How had I got to be
the friend of Sylvia van Tuiver? What had she seen in me, and what did I expect to get out
of her? I answered briefly; and suddenly Claire was overwhelmed by a rush of curiosity--plain
human curiosity. What was Sylvia like? Was she as clever as they said? What was the baby like,
and how was Sylvia taking the misfortune? Could it really be true that I had been visiting
the van Tuivers in Florida, as old Rossiter Torrance had implied? 

Needless to say, I did not answer these questions freely. And I really think my visitor was
more pained by my uncommunicativeness than she was by my betrayal of her. It was interesting
also to notice a subtle difference in her treatment of me. Gone was the slight touch of condescension,
gone was most of the familiarity! I had become a personage, a treasurer of high state secrets,
an intimate of the great ones! There must be something more to me than Claire had realized before! 

Poor Claire! She passes here from this story. For years thereafter I used to catch a glimpse
of her now and then, in the haunts of the birds of gorgeous plumage; but I never got a chance
to speak to her, nor did she ever call on me again. So I do not know if Douglas van Tuiver
still continues her eight thousand a year. All I can say is that when I saw her, her plumage
was as gorgeous as ever, and its style duly certified to the world that it had not been held
over from a previous season of prosperity. Twice I thought she had been drinking too much;
but then--so had many of the other ladies with the little glasses of bright-coloured liquids
before them. 

8. For the rest of that year I knew nothing about Sylvia except what I read in the "society"
column of my newspaper--that she was spending the late summer in her husband's castle in Scotland.
I myself was suffering from the strain of what I had been through, and had to take a vacation.
I went West; and when I came back in the fall, to plunge again into my work, I read that the
van Tuivers, in their yacht, the "Triton," were in the Mediterranean, and were planning to
spend the winter in Japan. 

And then one day in January, like a bolt from the blue, came a cablegram from Sylvia, dated
Cairo: "Sailing for New York, Steamship 'Atlantic,' are you there, answer." 

Of course I answered. And I consulted the sailing-lists, and waited, wild with impatience.
She sent me a wireless, two days out, and so I was at the pier when the great vessel docked.
Yes, there she was, waving her handkerchief to me; and there by her side stood her husband. 

It was a long, cold ordeal, while the ship was warped in. We could only gaze at each other
across the distance, and stamp our feet and beat our hands. There were other friends waiting
for the van Tuivers, I saw, and so I held myself in the background, full of a thousand wild
speculations. How incredible that Sylvia, arriving with her husband, should have summoned me
to meet her! 

At last the gangway was let down, and the stream of passengers began to flow. In time came
the van Tuivers, and their friends gathered to welcome them. I waited; and at last Sylvia came
to me--outwardly calm--but with her emotions in the pressure of her two hands. "Oh, Mary, Mary!"
she murmured. "I'm so glad to see you! I'm so glad to see you!" 

"What has happened?" I asked. 

Her voice went to a whisper. "I am leaving my husband." 

"Leaving your husband!" I stood, dumbfounded. 

"Leaving him for ever, Mary." 

"But--but----" I could not finish the sentence. My eyes moved to where he stood, calmly chatting
with his friends. 

"He insisted on coming back with me, to preserve appearances. He is terrified of the gossip.
He is going all the way home, and then leave me." 

"Sylvia! What does it mean?" I whispered. 

"I can't tell you here. I want to come and see you. Are you living at the same place?" 

I answered in the affirmative. 

"It's a long story," she added. "I must apologise for asking you to come here, where we can't
talk. But I did it for an important reason. I can't make my husband really believe that I mean
what I say; and you are my Declaration of Independence!" And she laughed, but a trifle wildly,
and looking at her suddenly, I realized that she was keyed almost to the breaking point. 

"You poor dear!" I murmured. 

"I wanted to show him that I meant what I said. I wanted him to see us meet. You see, he's
going home, thinking that with the help of my people he can make me change my mind." 

"But why do you go home? Why not stay here with me? There's an apartment vacant next to mine." 

"And with a baby?" 

"There are lots of babies in our tenement," I said. But to tell the truth, I had almost forgotten
the baby in the excitement of the moment. "How is she," I asked. 

"Come and see," said Sylvia; and when I glanced enquiringly at the tall gentleman who was chatting
with his friends, she added, "She's my baby, and I have a right to show her." 

The nurse, a rosy-cheeked English girl in a blue dress and a bonnet with long streamers, stood
apart, holding an armful of white silk and lace. Sylvia turned back the coverings; and again
I beheld the vision which had so thrilled me--the comical little miniature of herself--her
nose, her lips, her golden hair. But oh, the pitiful little eyes, that did not move! I looked
at my friend, uncertain what I should say; I was startled to see her whole being aglow with
mother-pride. "Isn't she a dear?" she whispered. "And, Mary, she's learning so fast, and growing--you
couldn't believe it!" Oh, the marvel of mother-love, I thought--that is blinder than any child
it ever bore! 

We turned away; and Sylvia said, "I'll come to you as soon as I've got the baby settled. Our
train starts for the South to-night, so I shan't waste any time." 

"God bless you, dear," I whispered; and she gave my hand a squeeze, and turned away. I stood
for a few moments watching, and saw her approach her husband, and exchange a few smiling words
with him in the presence of their friends. I, knowing the agony that was in the hearts of that
desperate young couple, marvelled anew at the discipline of caste. 

9. She sat in my big arm-chair; and how proud I was of her, and how thrilled by her courage.
Above all, however, I was devoured by curiosity. "Tell me!" I exclaimed. 

"There's so much," she said. 

"Tell me why you are leaving him." 

"Mary, because I don't love him. That's the one reason. I have thought it out--I have thought
of little else for the last year. I have come to see that it is wrong for a woman to live with
a man she does not love. It is the supreme crime a woman can commit." 

"Ah, yes!" I said. "If you have got that far!" 

"I have got that far. Other things have contributed, but they are not the real things--they
might have been forgiven. The fact that he had this disease, and made my child blind----" 

"Oh! You found out that?" 

"Yes, I found it out." 

"How?" 

"It came to me little by little. In the end, he grew tired of pretending, I think." She paused
for a moment, then went on, "The trouble was over the question of my obligations as a wife.
You see, I had told him at the outset that I was going to live for my baby, and for her alone.
That was the ground upon which he had persuaded me not to see you or read any of your letters.
I was to ask no questions, and be nice and bovine--and I agreed. But then, a few months ago,
my husband came to me with the story of his needs. He said that the doctors had given their
sanction to our reunion. Of course, I was stunned. I knew that he had understood me before
we left Florida."

She stopped. "Yes, dear," I said, gently. 

"Well, he said now the doctors were agreed there was no danger to either of us. We could take
precautions and not have children. I could only plead that the whole subject was distressing
to me. He had asked me to put off my problems till my baby was weaned; now I asked him to put
off his. But that would not do, it seemed. He took to arguing with me. It was an unnatural
way to live, and he could not endure it. I was a woman, and I couldn't understand this. It
seemed utterly impossible to make him realize what I felt. I suppose he has always had what
he wanted, and he simply does not know what it is to be denied. It wasn't only a physical thing,
I think; it was an affront to his pride, a denial of his authority." She stopped, and I saw
her shudder. 

"I have been through it all," I said. 

"He wanted to know how long I expected to withhold myself. I said, 'Until I have got this disease
out of my mind, as well as out of my body; until I know that there is no possibility of either
of us having it, to give to the other.' But then, after I had taken a little more time to think
it over, I said, 'Douglas, I must be honest with you. I shall never be able to live with you
again. It is no longer a question of your wishes or mine--it is a question of right or wrong.
I do not love you. I know now that it can never under any circumstances be right for a woman
to give herself in the intimacy of the sex-relation without love. When she does it, she is
violating the deepest instinct of her nature, the very voice of God in her soul.' 

"His reply was, 'Why didn't you know that before you married?' 

"I answered, 'I did not know what marriage meant; and I let myself be persuaded by others.' 

"'By your own mother!' he declared. 

"I said, 'A mother who permits her daughter to commit such an offence is either a slave-dealer,
or else a slave.' Of course, he thought I was out of my mind at that. He argued about the duties
of marriage, the preserving of the home, wives submitting themselves to their husbands, and
so on. He would not give me any peace----" 

And suddenly she started up. I saw in her eyes the light of old battles. "Oh, it was a horror!"
she cried, beginning to pace the floor. "It seemed to me that I was living the agony of all
the loveless marriages of the world. I felt myself pursued, not merely by the importunate desires
of one man--I suffered with all the millions of women who give themselves night after night
without love! He came to seem like some monster to me; I could not meet him unexpectedly without
starting. I forbade him to mention the subject to me again, and for a long time he obeyed.
But several weeks ago he brought it up afresh, and I lost my self-control completely. 'Douglas,'
I said, 'I can stand it no longer! It is not only the tragedy of my blind child--it's that
you have driven me to hate you. You have crushed all the life and joy and youth out of me!
You've been to me like a terrible black cloud, constantly pressing down on me, smothering me.
You stalk around me like a grim, sepulchral figure, closing me up in the circle of your narrow
ideas. But now I can endure it no longer. I was a proud, high-spirited girl, you've made of
me a colourless social automaton, a slave of your stupid worldly traditions. I'm turning into
a feeble, complaining, discontented wife! And I refuse to be it. I'm going home--where at least
there's some human spontaneity left in people; I'm going back to my father!'--And I went and
looked up the next steamer!" 

She stopped. She stood before me, with the fire of her wild Southern blood shining in her cheeks
and in her eyes. 

