The entrance to the harbor of Porto Cabello was once the theatre of one of the most gallant
exploits recorded in the annals of naval warfare. A mutiny took place on board the British
frigate Hermione, in 1799, while on the West India station, in consequence, it was said, of
the harsh treatment which the crew received. The officers were murdered and thrown overboard.
Captain Pigot, who commanded the frigate, after receiving several wounds, retreated to his
cabin, and defended himself desperately with his dirk until he was bayoneted by the mutineers.

The frigate, thus taken possession of, was carried into Porto Cabello and delivered up to the
Spanish authorities; Spain at that time being at war with Great Britain. The red-handed mutineers
dispersed, and many of them subsequently returned to their native country, but were from time
to time arrested, tried by court martial, and executed.

Indeed, no pains or expense were spared by the British government to bring these mutineers
to punishment. They were sought for in every part of the world; hunted out of their hiding-places,
and hanged. No false philanthropy interfered in their behalf, and threw obstacles in the swift
and sure career of justice. Very few, if any, escaped the terrible punishment due to their
crimes MUTINY AND MURDER ON THE HIGH SEAS. The effect of the EXAMPLE, which is the object of
capital punishment was most salutary. No mutiny has occurred in the British navy since that time.

The Hermione was regarded as a lawful prize by the Spaniards, notwithstanding the extraordinary
manner by which the ship fell into their hands. She was refitted; a crew of four hundred men,
including marines, were put on board, and, ready for a cruise, she lay at anchor near the entrance
of the harbor and within musket shot of the principal fortifications, which mounted two hundred
cannon.

These facts became known to Captain Hamilton, who commanded the British frigate Surprise, cruising
on the coast, and that gallant officer conceived the daring design of boarding the Hermione
with a portion of his crew, and cutting her out in spite of opposition, while she was lying
under the guns of this heavy fortification. Such an enterprise could only have been conceived
by a man of unusual intrepidity; but it was planned with a degree of prudence and cool calculation
which insured success.

After having well observed the situation of the frigate, Captain Hamilton with one hundred
men left the Surprise in boats soon after midnight on the 25th of October, 1800. On approaching
the Hermione the alarm was given by the frigate's launch, which, armed with a twenty-four pounder,
was rowing guard around the ship. After beating off the launch, Captain Hamilton, at the head
of fifty chosen men, armed chiefly with cutlasses, boarded the Hermione on the bows. As soon
as he and his bold companions obtained foothold, the boat's crews cut the cables and commenced
towing the Hermione into the offing. Thus, while the battle was raging on the ship's decks,
she was rapidly towed further from the batteries which had now commenced firing, and nearer
to the Surprise, which ship stood close into the harbor.

A bloody contest for the possession of the ship took place on her decks. The Spaniards fought
bravely; but the English, forming a front across the main deck after they got possession of
the forecastle, drove them aft, where, after a desperate struggle on the quarter-deck or poop,
the Dons were all killed or driven overboard. The fight was still continued on the gun-deck,
where a dreadful carnage took place; and it was only after an obstinate combat of an hour and
a half from the commencement of the action, that the Spaniards called for quarter, being entirely
subdued.

In this action the British had no men killed, and only fourteen wounded among whom was Captain
Hamilton, who fought boldly at the head of his men. The Spaniards had ninety-seven men wounded,
most of them severely, and one hundred and nineteen killed! It would thus seem that while the
courage of both parties was about equal, the English had a vast superiority in physical power.
The Spaniards, unable to oppose to their fierce enemies other than a feeble resistance, bravely
SUBMITTED TO BE KILLED; and the English sailors hacked and hewed them down until they cried
for quarter.

The little La Concha, in which I was now embarked, was a dull-sailing vessel with poor accommodations,
but crowded with living beings; and when beneath the deck, they were necessarily stowed away
in the most miscellaneous manner, resembling herrings packed in a barrel. In addition to the
officers and crew, we had about thirty passengers, men, women, and children, exiles from the
land of their adoption; driven forth by the hand of power to seek a place of refuge in unknown
countries. In this case, there was a great loss of property as well as of comfort, and the
future must have presented to this little band of exiles an uninviting picture.

The feelings of people born in any other land than France, would have been deeply affected
by such a change; and unavailing regrets, bitter complaints, and gloomy speculations in regard
to the future, would have cast a cloud over their spirits, and repressed aught like gayety
or cheerfulness during the passage. But our passengers were truly French; and "VIVE LA BAGATELLE"
was their motto. Although subjected to many inconveniences during a long and tedious passage,
and deprived of comforts to which they had been accustomed, yet without resorting for consolation
to the philosophy of the schools, there was no murmuring at their unhappy lot. They seemed
not merely contented, but gay; they even made a jest of their misfortunes, indulged in practical
jokes, fun, and frolic, and derived amusement from every occurrence which took place.

On this passage, Strictland, who entertained the prejudices of his nation against the French,
lost no opportunity to manifest his contempt of the passengers, and commented on their proceedings
in a manner ill-natured and unjust.

He more than once exhibited a surliness and incivility in his demeanor, which is supposed to
be a prominent feature in the character of a burly Briton; and was far from being a favorite
with any of the passengers or the captain. On more than one occasion a misunderstanding occurred
between Strictland and myself, and at one time it approached an open rupture.

We were both familiar with Smollet's "Adventures of Roderick Random," and compared ourselves,
with our rambles about the world in quest of a living, to the hero of that celebrated work
and his faithful friend Strap; with this difference, however, that while each of us applied
to himself the part of Roderick, neither was willing to assume the humble character of the
honest but simple-minded Strap. In the course of our discussion Strictland lost his temper,
and indulged in language towards myself that I was not disposed to pass lightly over. The next
morning, the little uninhabited island of Orchilla being in sight, the wind light and the weather
pleasant, the boat was launched, and the mate with several passengers, urged by curiosity,
embarked, and were pulled ashore by Strictland and myself. While the other parties were rambling
about, making investigations, we, more pugnaciously inclined, retired to a short distance from
the shore, and prepared to settle all our disputes in a "bout at fisticuffs," an ungentlemanly
method of settling a controversy, but one which may afford as much SATISFACTION to the vanquished
party as a sword-thrust through the vitals, or pistol bullet in the brain.

After exchanging a few left-handed compliments with no decided result, our pugilistic amusement
was interrupted by the unauthorized influence of two of the passengers, who had been searching
for shell-fish among the rocks. What the result of the contest would have been I will not venture
to conjecture. I was but a tyro in the art, while Strictland prided himself in his scientific
skill, and gave an indication of the purity of his tastes by boasting of having once acted
in the honorable capacity of bottle-holder to a disciple of the notorious Tom Crib, on a very
interesting public occasion.

After we had been about a fortnight on our passage, daily beating to windward in the Caribbean
Sea, we were fallen in with by a British sloop-of-war. The sight of this vessel, and a knowledge
of her character, caused a sensation throughout the schooner. Doubts were very naturally entertained
in regard to the treatment the passengers would receive at the hands of their much-dreaded
enemy. They were Frenchmen, and all the property on board was French property; and notwithstanding
they sailed under Spanish colors, it was predicted by some, who entertained exaggerated notions
of the rapacity of Englishmen and their hatred of the French, that the flag of Spain would
not serve as a protection; but that their little property would be seized upon, and themselves
detained and confined as prisoners or war. Others, however, cherished a different opinion,
and had confidence in that magnanimity which has always been claimed by the English as one
of their national attributes.

It was an anxious moment; and a general council of war was held among the passengers on the
deck of the schooner, in which, as at a conclave of parrots, few seemed to listen while every
one was eager to speak. The consultation, however, produced no result. Indeed, nothing could
be done, excepting to wait, and bow submissively to the decrees of the conqueror.

My friend and companion, Strictland, was really in greater jeopardy than either of the Frenchmen.
If his name and station had been discovered, he would have found snug quarters during the term
of his natural life; nothing could have saved him from impressment. The French passengers,
aware of the fact, with the kindest feelings took active measures to prevent such a misfortune.
They changed his name, clad him in Frenchified garments, bound a many-colored handkerchief
around his head, put a cigarette in his mouth, and cautioned him against replying in his native
tongue to questions that might be asked. Thus travestied, it was boldly predicted that he would
not be taken for an Englishman.

The sloop-of-war sent a boat alongside, commanded by a lieutenant, who seemed surprised at
the singular group by which he was surrounded on reaching the schooner's deck. To his questions,
replies were received from a dozen different mouths. He was a pleasant, gentlemanly officer
and seemed greatly amused at his reception. At length he inquired for the captain, and on his
being pointed out, addressed his questions to him, and repressed the officious interference
of others until he received a full explanation of the character of the vessel and the intent
of the voyage. The statements of the captain were confirmed by papers and documents, which
left no doubt of their truth. The lieutenant, after obtaining all necessary information, returned
to the ship to report the result of his visit. He did not tarry long, and when he came back
relieved the apprehensions of the passengers by assuring them that the commander of the sloop
of war, far from seeking to injure or embarrass them, felt for their misfortunes and would
gladly render them any assistance in his power. He then went among the passengers, conversed
with them, asked each one his name and country, and took other means to prevent deception.
When he came to Strictland, and asked his name, the reply was, "Jean Fourchette," in a bold tone.

"Are you a Frenchman?" asked the officer.

"Yes, SIR," was Strictland's reply, in a most anti-Gallican accent.

The officer stared at him for a moment, but without asking more questions passed on to others.

I felt somewhat apprehensive that the British ship was short-manned, and that the officer might
cast a longing look on me, and consider me worthy of serving his "most gracious majesty"; in
which case I intended to fall back on my American protection, which I regarded as my richest
treasure, and insist upon going to an English prison rather than sling my hammock in a man-of-war.
But no questions were asked, as I was looked upon as one of the crew, which, without counting
Strictland, consisted of only three individuals; and the idea of reducing that small number
by impressment was not entertained.

The officer, before he left the schooner, with great glee communicated to our passengers an
important piece of intelligence, which was more gratifying to British than to French ears.
A great and decisive battle had been fought at Salamanca, in Spain, between the combined armies
under Wellington and the French army under Marmont. It resulted in the signal defeat of the
French marshal, who was severely wounded. The officer left some English newspapers on board
the schooner containing the details of the battle.

The difficulty which had occurred between Strictland and myself, and which at one time threatened
to sever forever all friendly ties, was amicably settled before we arrived at St. Bartholomew.
Policy undoubtedly pointed out to the Englishman the importance of continuing our friendly
relations while my money lasted; and he apologized in a handsome manner for what I considered
his rude and uncivil conduct. Again we became sworn friends and brothers, and resolved that
the same fortune, good or evil, should betide us both.

We arrived at St. Bartholomew about the 20th of September, 1812, and landed our passengers
in good order, well-conditioned, and in tip-top spirits, after a passage of twenty days.

Chapter XXIV. HARD TIMES IN ST. BARTHOLOMEW

We found the harbor of St. Bartholomew full of vessels belonging to almost every nation. Among
them were several American clippers taking in cargo for the United States; also vessels under
Swedish colors bound in the same direction. From these facts we anticipated little difficulty
in procuring a passage to that country, on whose shores my friend, the young Englishman, as
well as myself, was anxious to stand. But, although there were many vessels in port, there
were also many sailors; far more than could be provided with employment; men, who by shipwreck
or capture, had been set adrift in different parts of the Windward islands, and had flocked
to St. Bartholomew with a view to get a passage to "The land of the free and the home of the
brave."

Strictland and myself remained in the schooner La Concha a couple of days, until the cargo
was discharged, when the French captain, taking me aside, told me he was making arrangements
to proceed on a trip to Point Petre, in Guadaloupe, and was desirous I should remain with him
as one of the crew on regular wages. But as he positively refused to receive my companion on
the same terms, or on any terms whatever, and, moreover, expressed an opinion of his character
by no means favorable, and which I believed to be unjust, I declined his proposition as a matter
of course.

It now became necessary to seek some abiding place on shore until we could find means of getting
from the island. But on inquiry I ascertained that thee expenses of board, even of the humblest
character, were so great that our slender resources, the few dollars remained of my single
month's pay, would not warrant such an extravagant proceeding as a resort to a boarding house.
I convinced Strictland of the importance of the strictest economy in our expenditures; succeeded
in persuading a good-natured Swede, who kept a small shop near the careenage, to allow my chest
to remain with him a few days, and we undertook to "rough it" as well as we could.

In the morning we usually took a survey of the vessels in the harbor, hoping to find employment
of some kind or a chance to leave the island. When hungry, we bought, for a small sum, a loaf
of bread and a half dozen small fish, jacks or ballahues, already cooked, of which there was
always a bountiful supply for sale about the wharves, and then retiring to the outskirts of
the town, seated in the shade of one of the few trees in that neighborhood, we made a hearty
and delicious repast. The greatest inconvenience to which we were subjected was a want of water.
There was a great scarcity of that "necessary of life" in the island, and a drink of water,
when asked for, was frequently refused. More than once, when hard pressed by thirst, I entered
a grog shop and paid for a glass of liquor in order to obtain a refreshing draught of the pure
element.

At night, after walking through the streets and listening to the gossip of the sailors collected
in groups in the streets, we retired to some lonely wharf, and throwing ourselves down on a
pile of SOFT pine boards, and gathering our jackets around us, and curtained by the starry
canopy of heaven, we slept as soundly and sweetly as if reposing on the most luxurious couch.

But even this cheap mode of lodging was attended with inconveniences. One night a shower of
rain came suddenly upon us. This was an event unfrequent and consequently unexpected, and our
garments were thoroughly soaked before we could realize our misfortune. As this happened about
three o'clock in the morning, there was nothing left but to wait patiently several hours, wet
to the skin and shivering in the night air, until our clothing was dried by the rays of the
sun and warmth restored to our frames.

One night an unprincipled knave undertook to rob us while we slept. Fortunately for us he began
his work with Strictland, and took possession of the few effects which his pockets contained
before my companion awoke and gave the alarm. On hearing his cry, I started to my feet and
seized the fellow, who, being nearly naked, eluded my grasp and ran. We chased him the length
of a street, when he entered an alley and disappeared among a row of dilapidated buildings.

After these events we considered it expedient to change our capacious lodging house for one
of more limited dimensions, where we might be screened from a shower and concealed from the
prying eyes of a robber. We proceeded the next day in quest of such an accommodation, and after
a careful survey of various localities, our labors were crowned with success. We found on the
northern side of the harbor an old boat that had been hauled up on the beach and turned bottom
upwards. This furnished us with a capital lodging house. We took up our quarters there every
night without asking permission of the owner, and were never disturbed in our snug domicile
after we laid ourselves down to rest.

It may be asked why I did not apply to the American consul for assistance. The treatment which
I received from the agent of our government, when in distress, at Liverpool, created on my
mind an unfavorable impression in regard to that class of officials, and the reluctant aid
and little encouragement which those of my countrymen met with who applied for advice and assistance
to the consul at St. Bartholomew, were calculated to prevent any application on my part. Besides,
I had entwined my fortunes with another an Englishman; and we had resolved to partake of weal
or woe together.

On more than one occasion I could have procured a passage for myself to my native land if I
had been willing to leave Strictland, My "protection," as well as appearance, furnished indisputable
evidence that I was an American; but Strictland had no testimony of any kind to offer in favor
of his citizenship, and to every application for a passage he received a decided shake of the
head, from which there was no appeal.

About this time an excitement prevailed among the web-footed gentry in St. Bartholomew in relation
to the impressment of seamen by British authorities. The cruisers on the West India station
were deficient in men; and all kinds of stratagems were regarded as justifiable which would
be likely to supply the deficiency. British ships and brigs of war were often seen cruising
off the harbor of St. Bartholomew, and their boats were sent ashore for intelligence and provisions.
It became known to some of the officers that there was a large number of seamen in the town
destitute of employment, and a plot was devised to kidnap a few of them, and do them a good
turn against their will, by giving them board and lodging gratis, and an opportunity to display
their courage by fighting the enemies of Great Britain.

A shrewd and intelligent English office, who could tell a good story and make himself agreeable
in a grog shop, disguised in the plain dress of a common sailor, one day got admittance to
a knot of these unsuspecting "old salts," and by his liberality and good humor acquired their
confidence. Under some plausible pretext he induced a dozen or fifteen Dutchmen, Swedes, Britons,
and Yankees to accompany him to a wharf on the opposite side of the harbor, where an alarm
or cries for succor could hardly be heard by any of the sailors on shore. Instead of the sport
which was expected, they found themselves surrounded by the boat's crew of a man-of-war! After
a brief, but unsuccessful struggle, they were all, with the exception of two, hustled into
the boat and carried off in triumph on board an English frigate. Those two effected their escape
by making good use of their legs, and their account of this most unjustifiable but successful
case of man-stealing created a feeling of hatred against the officers of British men-of-war,
which manifested itself on several occasions, and was near being attended with serious results.

One pleasant morning, an American clipper brig arrived at St. Bartholomew from the United States.
The event was soon known to every person in the island, and caused quite an excitement. When
a boat from the brig, with the captain on board, reached the landing-place, a crowd was assembled
to hear the news and inquire into the results of the war. Englishmen and Americans met upon
the wharf upon the most friendly footing, and jocularly offered bets with each other in regard
to the nature of the intelligence brought by this arrival.

The captain stepped on shore and was besieged on every side. "What is the news, captain?" eagerly
inquired half a dozen individuals in the same breath.

"Is Canada captured by the Americans?" shouted an undoubted Jonathan, one of those persevering,
restless mortals of whom it has been said by a Yankee girl,

     "No matter where his home may be,
     What flag may be unfurled;
     He'll manage, by some cute device,
     To whittle through the world!"

"Has there been any naval engagement? Any American frigates taken, hey?" inquired a genuine
native of Albion, his eyes sparkling with expectation.

The captain, although thus suddenly surrounded, captured, and taken possession of, seemed more
amused than annoyed by these inquisitorial proceedings, and, with a clear voice and a good-humored
smile, replied, while the tumult was hushed and every ear expanded to catch the interesting
intelligence, "I know of no battles that have been fought on the land or sea; but just before
I left New York, intelligence was received that General Hull, the commander of the American
forces on the frontiers, had surrendered his whole army to the enemy at Detroit, with all his
guns, ammunition, and stores, WITHOUT FIRING A GUN!"

It is impossible to describe the scene which followed the announcement of this unexpected intelligence,
the exultation of the British, and the mortification and wrath of the Americans. Hull was stigmatized
by his country-men as the basest of cowards. Curses, both loud and deep, were heaped upon his
hoary head. Had he been within the grasp of those who listened to the story of his shame, a
host of armed Englishmen could not have saved him from the fury of the Yankees.

Occasionally an American privateer was seen in the offing; and the boldness, enterprise, and
success of this class of vessels in crippling the commerce of Great Britain among the islands,
created astonishment and indignation among the loyal subjects of "his majesty." Rumors were
afloat every day sometimes false, but more frequently true of some deed of daring, or destruction
of British property, committed in that quarter by American private-armed vessels.

One day, a small drogher arrived from the English island of Antigua, bringing as passengers
four or five seamen, the only survivors of a terrible disaster which befell one of those privateers
while cruising to the windward of Antigua. One of the men was boatswain of the vessel. The
tale which he related was a sad one, and its correctness was confirmed by the deep emotion
which the narrator and his shipmates manifested and by the tears they shed.

The captain of the privateer was a man of violent and ungovernable temper and drunken habits.
He had a quarrel every day with some of his officers or some of his men; and one Sunday afternoon
a wordy contest took place between the captain and his first lieutenant, both being well primed
with alcohol. The language and conduct of the insulted officer was such as to provoke the captain
to madness. He raged and raved, and at last struck his lieutenant, and gave peremptory orders
to "put the rascal in irons."

On hearing this order given, but before it could be executed, the lieutenant seized a loaded
pistol. Instead of shooting his brutal commander on the spot, he rushed down the steps into
the after part of the vessel, and undoubtedly discharged his weapon among the powder in the
magazine! A tremendous explosion followed, which blew the privateer to fragments, scattering
the timbers and planks, and the legs, arms, and bodies of the crew, in every direction! The
shrieks of the wounded, the struggles of the dying, and the spectacle of horrors which those
men witnessed, made a lasting impression on their minds.

After having been on the water a few minutes, almost stunned by the explosion, the boatswain
and some of his companions succeeded in constructing a raft from the floating planks; and after
days of suffering and exposure, without food, and almost without clothing, the survivors were
driven ashore on the island of Antigua, where they were kindly treated, and subsequently sent
to St. Bartholomew, with the expectation that they would there find a chance to get to the
United States.

Strictland and myself led the vagabond kind of life I have described for a couple of weeks.
My purse was gradually growing lighter, and it became evident that we must soon find employment
or starve. We formed various plans for improving our condition, neither of which proved practicable
when put to the test. One of these was to proceed to Tortola, and join a band of strolling
players that were perambulating the islands, and attracting admiration, if not money, by the
excellence of their dramatic representations. Strictland, it seemed, besides having been a
hanger-on at the "Fives Court," had served occasionally as a supernumerary at Covent Garden
Theatre. He could sing almost any one of Dibdin's songs in imitation of Incledon, in a manner
to astonish an audience; and he flattered my vanity by assuring me that I should make a decided
hit before an intelligent audience as "Young Norval." But this project failed for want of means
to carry us to the theatre of action.

One morning, while looking about the wharves, we learned that the brig Gustavus, a vessel under
Swedish colors, supposed to belong to St. Bartholomew, was making preparations for a voyage
to the United States. We lost no time in finding the captain of the brig, a chuckle-headed,
crafty-looking native of Sweden, who had been long a resident of the West Indies. I represented
our case in the most forcible language I could command; and already aware that some men will
be more likely to do a kind act from motives of self-interest than the promptings of a benevolent
heart, I told him we were anxious to proceed to the United states, and if he would promise
us the privilege of working our passage, we would go on board forthwith and assist in taking
in cargo and getting the brig ready for sea.

The captain listened to my eloquence with a good-natured smile and accepted our offer. He promised
us a passage to some port in the United States if we would go on board the brig and work faithfully
until she sailed. We abandoned our convenient, I had almost said luxurious lodgings beneath
the boat on the beach, and, with my chest and what other baggage we possessed, joyfully transferred
our quarters to the forecastle of the brig Gustavus.

We remained on board the brig about a fortnight, faithfully and steadily at work, stowing cargo,
repairing and setting up the rigging, and bending sails. We congratulated ourselves, from time
to time, on our good fortune in securing such a chance, after so much disappointment and delay.

But one morning I was alarmed at finding Strictland had been suddenly attacked with violent
headache and other symptoms of fever. The mate gave him some medicine, but he continued unwell.
In the afternoon the captain came on board, and after a conference with the mate, called me
to the quarter-deck, and told me my companion was sick; that he did not like sick people; and
the sooner I took him ashore, the better for all parties. "The brig," he continued, "is now
ready for sea. I can find plenty of my countrymen who will go with me on the terms you offered,
and of course I shall not give either of you a passage to America. If I should be overhauled
by an English man-of-war while my crew is composed in part of Americans and Englishmen, my
vessel will be seized and condemned. Therefore, you had better clear out at once, and take
your sick friend along with you."

I was disgusted with the cold-blooded rascality of this man, who could thus, almost without
a pretext, violate a solemn obligation when he could no longer be benefitted by its fulfilment.

"As for taking my friend ashore in his present condition," said I, "with no place in which
to shelter him, and no means of procuring him medical advice or support, that is out of the
question. He must remain where he now is until he recovers from his illness. But I will no
longer trouble you with MY presence on board. I will gladly quit your vessel as soon as you
pay me for the work I have done during the last fortnight."

"Work!!" said the skipper; "pay! I didn't agree to pay you for your work! You've got your food
and lodging for your work. Not one single rix dollar will I pay you besides!" And the skipper
kept his word.

After giving him, in very plain language, my opinion of his conduct, I went into the forecastle
and had some conversation with Strictland. I found him more comfortable, and told him my determination
not to sleep another night on board the brig, but that I would visit him the next morning.
I called a boat alongside, and, swelling with indignation, went ashore. I proceeded immediately
to an American clipper brig which was ready to sail for a port in the Chesapeake Bay. I represented
to the captain the forlorn situation of myself and companion, and urged him to give us a passage
to the United States. He listened patiently to my representations, but replied that he had
already consented to receive a larger number of his distressed countrymen as passengers than
he felt justified in doing, and that he had neither room nor provisions for any additional
number. Seeing that I was greatly disappointed at his refusal of my application, he finally
told me he would give ME a passage to America if I chose to go, but he would not take my companion.
This was reasonable enough; but I could not think of abandoning Strictland, especially while
he was sick and destitute, and resolved to forego this opportunity and wait for more propitious
times. I was convinced that when I got to the bottom of Fortune's constantly revolving wheel,
my circumstances must improve by the revolution, whichever way the wheel might turn.

Fatigued, disappointed, and indignant withal, as soon as the shades of evening fell I proceeded
leisurely around the harbor to the beach on the opposite side of the bay, and again took possession
of my comfortable lodgings beneath the boat. For hours I lay awake, reflecting on my awkward
situation, and striving to devise some practicable means to overcome the difficulties by which
I was surrounded.

I awoke at a somewhat late hour the next morning, and heard the unwonted sounds of the wind
whistling and howling around my domicile. It was blowing a gale, the beginning of a hurricane.
I hastened with eager steps to the other side of the harbor, where I found everything in confusion.
The quays were thronged with people, and every man seemed busy. Boats were passing to and from
the vessels, freighted with men to render assistance; carrying off cables and anchors, and
in some cases, where the cargoes had been discharged, stone ballast, which was hastily thrown
on the decks and thence transferred to the hold, fears being entertained that as the hurricane
increased, the vessels in port might be forced from their anchors, and wrecked on the rocks
at the entrance of the haven, or driven out into the Caribbean Sea.

The vessels were thickly moored, and cables already began to part and anchors to drag. Sloops,
schooners, brigs, and ships got foul of each other. The "hardest fend off!" was the cry, and
cracking work commenced; and what with the howling of the hurricane gusts as they swept down
the mountain side, the angry roar of the short waves, so suddenly conjured up, as they dashed
against the bows of the different vessels, the shouting of the seamen mooring or unmooring,
the orders, intermingled with fierce oaths and threats, of the masters and mates as they exerted
all their energies to avert impending disasters, the crashing of bulwarks, the destruction
of cutwaters and bowsprits, and the demolition of spars, a scene of unusual character was displayed,
which, to a person not a busy actor, was brim full of interest, and not destitute of sublimity.

The mate of the Gustavus, with a number of men, was employed in carrying off from the shore
a cable and anchor, the small bower having parted at the beginning of the gale. The mate represented
the situation of the brig as somewhat critical, and urged me to render assistance. Anxious
to see Strictland, I acceded to his request. It was not long before we were under the bows
of the brig. Men were engaged in carrying out the anchor ahead to haul her away from a cluster
of vessels which were making sad havoc with her quarter rails, fashion pieces, and gingerbread
work on the stern.

I entered the forecastle, shook hands with Strictland, whose health had greatly improved, with
prospect of a speedy recovery, and bade him be of good cheer, that he would be well enough
on the morrow. I threw on a chest my jacket and vest, containing what little money still remained
on hand, and my "protection," and thus airily equipped, reckless of the clouds of mist and
rain which at times enveloped the whole harbor, went on deck and turned to with a will, notwithstanding
the scurvy treatment I had received from the captain the day before. When I reached the deck,
some of the men were engaged in heaving in the new cable; others were just then called aft
by the captain to assist in bearing off a sloop on one quarter and a schooner on the other,
and in disengaging the rigging which had caught in the spars. The sloop had the appearance
of a wreck. The laniards of the shrouds had been cut away on both sides, and the tall and tapering
mast was quivering and bending like a whipstock, from the action of the wind and the waves.
One of the cables, it was supposed, had parted; the sails, not having been properly furled,
were fluttering and struggling, not altogether in vain, to get loose; and the deck on both
sides was filled with shingle ballast, which had been brought from the shore early that morning,
in the fear that the sloop might be driven out to sea, and had not been thrown into the hold.

The captain, mate, and crew of the sloop, finding their vessel in such a helpless condition,
and entertaining wholesome fears for their own safety, ABANDONED THE SLOOP TO HER FATE, and
embarked, with all their baggage, in the last boat that had brought off ballast. But with the
last boat there came from the shore a young man, who, as supercargo, had charge of the vessel
and cargo. Aware to some extent of the perilous condition of the sloop, he had been actively
engaged during the morning in efforts to prepare his vessel to encounter the disasters incident
to a hurricane. As he stepped on the deck of the sloop, and before the ballast had all been
discharged from the boat, the officers and crew were eager for their departure. The captain
urged the supercargo to accompany him on shore, and, when he refused, pointed out the desperate
condition of the sloop, assuring him that in a few minutes that vessel, held by a single anchor,
would break adrift and be wrecked on the rocks, when probably no individual could be saved.

The name of the supercargo was Bohun, a native of the "Emerald Isle." He peremptorily refused
to quit the vessel, saying, as he stamped his foot on the deck, "Here I stand, determined to
sink or swim with the sloop."

"Shove off!" exclaimed the captain; "it is useless to parley with a fool!"

At this moment the crew of the Gustavus were summoned aft to disengage the brig from the sloop,
and the captain was issuing orders in his most effective style. "Bear off! Why don't you bear
off! Cut away the laniards of those shrouds, and clear the main chainwales! Bring an axe here,
and cut away that fore-stay which is foul of the main yard!"

Calling now to Bohun, who stood in the forward part of the sloop with a most rueful visage,
the captain said, "Why don't you pay out cable, you lubber, and drop astern, clear of the brig?"

Bohun stood near the windlass, and his appearance struck me as being singularly interesting.
He was dressed like a gentleman; wore a green frock coat and a white fur hat; but his garments
were saturated with rain and the spray. He seemed resolute, nevertheless, and anxious to do
something, but he knew not what to do. When roughly accosted by the captain of the brig, he
replied, "If you'll send two or three men to help me, I will soon get the sloop clear of your
vessel. My men have all deserted, and I can do nothing without assistance."

The captain of the Gustavus shook his head and his fist at the young Irishman, and discharged
a double-headed oath at him, within point-blank shot. Nevertheless, Bohun continued, "If you
will let me have one man, only ONE man, I may be able to save the sloop."

"One man!" replied the Swedish captain, screaming with passion, "how do you expect me to spare
even one man, when my own vessel may strike adrift at any moment? Pay out cable, and be hanged
to you! Pay out cable, and drop astern!" And he aimed another ferocious oath at the unfortunate
supercargo.

Poor Bohun was no sailor. He hardly knew the difference between the cable and the cathead.
He looked the picture of distress, almost of despair. But I, being under no obligations to
the brutal captain of the brig, was at liberty to obey the impulse of my feelings. I stepped
over the quarter rail, grasped the topmast stay of the sloop, swung myself on the jibboom,
and in the space of a few seconds after the captain had concluded his maledictions I was standing
on the sloop's forecastle, alongside of Bohun.

Chapter XXV. TREACHERY AND INGRATITUDE

As soon as I reached the deck of the sloop, Bohun eagerly grasped me by the hand. "My good
fellow," said he, "tell me what to do, and I will go about it at once; only tell me what to
do first."

I cast my eye around, and comprehended in a moment the exact condition of the little vessel.
I felt that a great responsibility had suddenly devolved upon me, and I determined to be equal
to the task. The sloop, pitching and rolling, and jammed between two much larger vessels, was
awkwardly situated, and riding, I supposed, at a single anchor. About half the cable only was
payed out; the remainder was coiled on the forecastle, and the end was not secured.

"In the first place," said I, recollecting the scene near Charleston bar, "we will clinch the
end of the cable around the mast, and then we can veer out as much as we like, without risk
of its running away."

This was soon done, and by veering cable, the sloop dropped astern, until clear of all other
vessels. I then found, to my satisfaction, that neither of the cables had parted. It subsequently
appeared that the small bower anchor had merely been dropped under foot. By giving a good scope
to both cables, the sloop was as likely to ride out the gale, so far as depended on ground
tackling, as any vessel in port. The sails, which had been loosed by the force of the wind,
were next secured. The foresail was furled in such manner that it could be cast loose and the
head of it hoisted at a minute's notice. I greatly feared that some light vessel might be forced
from her moorings, and drift athwart our bows, and thus bear the sloop away from her anchors.
I therefore got an axe, and placed it by the windlass, with the design of cutting both cables
when such an act might be considered necessary for our safety, hoist the head of the foresail,
and run out to sea.

In the mean time, the decks were in a deplorable condition, lumbered up with barrels, boxes,
and ballast. The supercargo commenced on one side, and myself on the other, to throw the ballast
into the hold. The miscellaneous articles were then tumbled down in an unceremonious manner,
and the hatchways properly secured. Our attention was now turned to the mast, which had no
support on either side, and was in an awkward and uneasy position. Bohun looked at it as it
swayed from starboard to port and from port to starboard, and then looked inquiringly at me.

"We can co it!" said I, without hesitation. "Have you any spare rigging on board?"

"Yes, plenty! Down in the forward part of the sloop."

I went below, and found a coil of rope which I believed would answer my purpose. I brought
it on deck, and began to reeve laniards for the shrouds. I then procured a handspike and heaver,
and went to work setting up the rigging by a "Spanish windlass." I had only once seen an operation
of this kind performed; but having closely watched the process, I knew I could perform it successfully.
In this matter Bohun rendered me valuable aid. We worked diligently, for we felt that every
minute was of importance; and it was not long before the shrouds on both sides were set up,
and the mast rendered safe. By the time this work was accomplished and the vessel put in good
condition, the forenoon had nearly expired; but the hurricane continued. Several vessels had
already been driven from their anchors, and blown broadside on, through the whole length of
the harbor, and dashed to pieces against the rocks.

Through the mist and rain I kept a good lookout ahead, lest some of those unfortunate craft
should come down upon our little sloop. And at one time, in the middle of the afternoon, I
thought the crisis had come, and we should be obliged to go to sea. A large schooner which
had been lying snugly at anchor at the extremity of the harbor for months, with no person on
board, parted her cable, and was driven by the wind among the vessels already tossing about
in that fearful gale, rubbing against one, crushing in the bulwarks of another, and carrying
alarm and terror throughout her whole route. This hulk had passed through the great body of
the shipping without causing much serious or irremediable damage, and now, broadside to the
gale, was rapidly wafted towards the sloop. My heart beat violently, as, axe in hand, I watched
her approach.

I raised the axe above my head to give the fatal blow, when I perceived the stern of the schooner
swinging round. I dropped the axe, and called upon Bohun to lend me a hand to bear off. The
schooner came down almost with the force of an avalanche, cleared the bowsprit, as I anticipated,
but struck our larboard bow, swung alongside, caught by our chain-wale for a moment, was freed
by a violent gust of wind, dropped astern, and was soon pounding upon the ledges.

Bohun, who had never before been an actor in such scenes, was completely exhausted with excitement
and fatigue. He loaned me a pea-jacket, for, after my severe labors, and ablutions in fresh
and salt water, I was shivering with cold; and requesting me to keep a good lookout, went below
long before the gale abated, and buried his inquietudes in sleep.

The tempest began to diminish in violence soon after the shades of evening fell; but I continued
on my watch until nearly midnight, when no longer doubting that the fierce hurricane had exhausted
its wrath, I also left the deck, turned into one of the cabin berths, and slept soundly until
the sun was above the horizon.

When Bohun came on deck he assured me he felt under great obligations for the assistance I
had rendered in saving the sloop from destruction, and would cheerfully make me any compensation
in his power. He requested as an additional favor that I would remain by the sloop, as there
was valuable property on board, until he could make some necessary arrangements. I gave him
my promise. He then called a boat alongside, and proceeded on shore.

I was anxious to visit the Gustavus to inquire about Strictland's health, and consult with
him in relation to future proceedings. But there was no boat at this time attached to the sloop;
the small boat broke away at the commencement of the gale, and was never afterwards seen; and
the long-boat was taken possession of by the dastardly creoles who composed the officers and
crew. I knew, however, that Strictland was well provided for, and being determined to visit
him at the earliest opportunity, gave myself no further anxiety, but patiently awaited the
return of the supercargo. I waited in vain; he did not arrive that day, but about eight o'clock
in the evening a boat came off bringing a new captain, mate, and a couple of men. My short-lived
reign was at an end! I had tasted the sweets of despotic authority for two delicious days.
I was now deposed, and about to be resolved into my original elements.

It was too late to visit Strictland that night; but the next morning after breakfast, I obtained
permission from the new captain to use the boat for a short time, and with a light and joyous
heart for I was proud of my successful exertions during the gale sculled away for the Gustavus.
I stepped gayly on board, and encountered the mate as I passed over the gangway. He greeted
me kindly, but expressed surprise at my appearance.

"How is Strictland?" I exclaimed. "Has he entirely recovered?"

"Strictland!" replied the mate. "Have you not seen him? Don't you KNOW where he is?"

"Certainly not," said I, somewhat alarmed at his manner, "if he is not on board the brig!"

"He left the brig this morning," said the mate, "and is now on board that vessel in the offing,"
pointing to a rakish clipper brig under American colors that was outside the harbor, and seemed
to be flying away under a cloud of canvas. "He has taken his chest and everything belonging
to you both," continued the mate, seeing my astonishment. "I thought you were with him, and
that the whole thing was arranged by mutual agreement."

I was thunderstruck at this intelligence; but after a moment's reflection, I refused to believe
it. "It must be a mistake," said I; "Strictland would not go off to America, and leave me here
without means or employment. He cannot be so ungrateful."

The mate looked as if he thought such a thing were possible.

"And if he HAS availed himself of a chance to go to the United States, he has undoubtedly left
the chest, which is mine, and other property belonging to me where I can easily find it."

"I hope you MAY find it," said the mate dryly, "but I don't believe you will."

I went forward and conversed with the men who had taken Strictland on board the brig, and from
them learned the particulars of the transaction. It appeared that Strictland, who had quite
recovered his health, on coming on deck that memorable morning, perceived the clipper brig,
which two days before I had visited without a successful result, making preparations for immediate
departure. He borrowed the boat, and accompanied by one of the crew of the Gustavus, went on
board the American brig, where he represented himself to the captain as an American, in great
distress, and anxious to get home. He exhibited a "protection," mine undoubtedly, as evidence
of his assertions. The tale of his misfortunes, told in eloquent language, albeit it must have
smacked strongly of cockney peculiarities, melted the heart of the worthy and unsuspecting
sailor, who told him to bring his things on board at once, and he would give him a passage
to the United States.

Strictland returned to the Gustavus, gathered together not only everything which belonged to
him, but every article of my property besides, not even excepting the garments I had thrown
off on the morning of the hurricane. He took with him the money belonging to me which was still
unexpended, and also what I regarded as far more valuable than the rest of my property my American
protection. He told the crew this was done in pursuance of an arrangement made with me the
day previous to the hurricane. He reached the brig with his "plunder" just as the anchor was
hauled to the cathead, and the brig was hanging by a single line attached to a neighboring
vessel until the topsails were sheeted home. My chest was transferred to the deck of the clipper,
and five minutes afterwards the brig was leaving the harbor under full sail, bound home.

It was some time before I could realize the extent of my misfortune, and persuade myself of
the melancholy fact that I was a stranger in a foreign port, without friends, while every item
of my goods and chattels consisted of an old pair of patched canvas trousers, a checked shirt,
and a dilapidated straw hat; I had not even a pair of shoes, a kerchief, a jack-knife, or the
value of a stiver in cash.

I stood a moment gazing earnestly at the brig as she was rapidly sinking beneath the horizon.
I was more disappointed and shocked at the ingratitude of Strictland than grieved at the loss
of my goods and chattels. And when I saw that I had been deceived, cajoled, and swindled by
an unprincipled adventurer, so far from rejoicing at such an opportunity to "come out strong,"
as Mark Tapley would have done under similar circumstances, I could hardly control my indignation.
But conscious that my wrongs could neither be remedied nor avenged, I repressed my feelings,
and amid the well-meaning condolence of my friends in the Gustavus, entered my boat and returned
to the sloop.

I was rejoiced to find Bohun on board. He seized my hand and greeted me with much kindness.
His countenance, open, frank, and honest, emboldened me to explain to him my situation. When
I had concluded my narrative of facts, "Now," said I, "if you consider yourself indebted to
me, and are willing to do me a favor, all I ask is, that you will give me a situation on board
this sloop as one of the sailors, until I can find an opportunity to do something better. I
shall expect the same rate of wages as others, of course and have also to request that you
will advance me a few dollars, with which I can supply myself with some necessary articles
of clothing."

Bohun graciously acceded to my wishes, and told me I might henceforth consider myself one of
the crew of the sloop. I then ascertained what had hitherto escaped my knowledge, that the
sloop was called the "Lapwing" of St. Bartholomew; but really belonged to Mr. Thomas, an opulent
merchant residing in St. George, Grenada, and was about to proceed to that port with a cargo
of flour and other articles of American produce. Bohun was a clerk with Mr. Thomas; and he
assured me that on his representations of my conduct to his employer, and the unfortunate consequences
of it to myself, that gentleman would undoubtedly show his appreciation of my services in a
manner highly proper and acceptable.

This consideration, however, had no weight with me. All I asked for was employment. I wanted
to be placed in a situation where by my labors I could earn my living. This I then regarded
as independence; and I have never since seen cause to change that opinion.

As the Lapwing belonged nominally and officially to a Swedish port, it was necessary she should
have Swedish officers and in part a Swedish crew. The captain was a tall, stiff-looking man,
whose name was Lordick. He was a native of the little island of Saba; and two of the crew belonged
to the same place. The mate was a native of St. Bartholomew. All belonging to the sloop were
creoles, and assumed to be subjects of the king of Sweden, excepting Bohun and myself; and
I had been so much exposed to the sun in that hot climate, that I looked as much like a creole
as any person on board.

The island of Saba is in sight of St. Bartholomew a level, precipitous rock, nine miles in
circumference, highest in the enter, appearing like a mound rising out of the sea, and covered
with no great depth of soil. Saba was first settled by a colony of Dutch from St. Eustatia
towards the close of the seventeenth century. It is a place of no trade, having no harbor,
and is but little known. It is accessible only on the south side, where there is a narrow,
intricate, and artificial path leading from the landing-place to the summit. Frequent rains
give growth to fruit and vegetables of large size and superior flavor, which are conveyed to
the neighboring islands in open boats and sold. It contained in the early part of the present
century about fifty families of whites, and probably double that number of slaves. The chief
employment of the inhabitants consisted in cultivating the soil, and raising, besides vegetables
and fruit, cotton, which the women spun and manufactured into stockings, of a very delicate
fabric, that readily commanded a high price in the neighboring islands. The people, living
in a village on the top of a rock between the sky and the sea, enjoy the benefits of both elements
without dreading their storms. Indeed, Saba is one of those quiet secluded nooks, which are
sometimes unexpectedly discovered in different parts of the world, where the people, generation
after generation, live in a sort of primitive simplicity, and pride themselves upon their peculiarities
and seclusion from mankind. The traveller in quest of novelties would do well to visit Saba.

In a few days after I became one of the crew of the Lapwing, that vessel was ready for sea.
Captain Lordick manifested toward me a friendly feeling; he sympathized with me in my misfortunes;
made me a present of some articles, which, although of trifling intrinsic value, were highly
useful; and inveighed in severe terms against the villainy of Strictland.

The day before we left port, Captain Lordick called me into the cabin. "Hawser," said he, "you
are an American, but you have no evidence of that fact. The trading vessels among the islands
are often boarded by English men-of-war, with a view to get men to supply a deficiency in their
crews. If an Englishman is found, he is sure to be impressed. As you have no "protection,"
and the burden of proof lies with you, you will be regarded as an Englishman, a proper person
to serve the king of Great Britain. Even if you state the truth, and claim to be an American,
there will be no means of escape from this terrible species of servitude. I have a plan to
propose, which may save you from the clutches of John Bull. The natives of St. Bartholomew,
and also of Saba, which is a dependency on Holland, are exempted from impressment, provided
they can exhibit proofs of their citizenship. Therefore every sailor belonging to those islands
is provided with a document, called a 'burgher's brief,' which, like an American protection,
gives a minute description of the person of the bearer, and is signed and sealed by the official
authorities. Now, Hawser," continued the generous creole, "I had a younger brother who died
of yellow fever in St. Kitts some six months ago. He was about your age, and resembled you
in appearance. His 'burgher's brief,' as a citizen of St. Bartholomew, is now in my possession.
Therefore you shall no longer be a citizen of the United States, but a native of Saba. I assure
you there are very good people in Saba; and your name is no longer Hawser Martingale, but John
Lordick; remember this; I shall so enter your name in the ship's papers.

The captain's reasons for a change in my identity were powerful. Besides, a "purser's name"
was a common thing among sailors. And although I felt unwilling to forego my claim to American
citizenship, even for a brief period, I convinced myself that no evil to anyone, but much good
to myself, would be likely to result from such a course. Expediency is a powerful casuist;
the captain's kindness also touched my heart, and conquering an instinctive repugnance to sacrifice
the truth under any circumstances, I rashly told him that in accordance with his suggestion,
I would adopt the name of his brother for a short time, and endeavor not to disgrace it.

"I have no fear that you will," said he.

Chapter XXVI. COASTING AMONG THE ISLANDS

We left St. Bartholomew in the Lapwing and proceeded on our way towards Grenada. I was treated
with kindness by every person in the sloop, and found my situation far more agreeable than
when loafing and vagabondizing about the wharves.

Mr. Bohun was a light-hearted young man, intelligent, high-spirited, and impulsive. He conversed
with me about the events of the war, and speculated freely in relation to the future. He spoke
of the defeat of General Hull as an event which might have been expected. When I expressed
an opinion that our national vessels would be more successful on the sea, he appeared amused,
laboring under the error which was universal among the British at that time, that an American
frigate of the first class could hardly be considered a match for an English sloop-of-war.

I spoke of the action between the President and the Little Belt, where one broadside, fired
through mistake by the American frigate, transformed the proud and defiant sloop-of-war into
a sinking wreck. But my argumentative fact was met by a reference to the unfortunate affair
between the Leopard and the Chesapeake. I urged that the Chesapeake, although rated and officered
and manned as a frigate, was merely an armed STORE-SHIP carrying out supplies in a time of
peace to our ships in the Mediterranean. But Bohun, like every other Briton I have met with,
would not admit the efficiency of the excuse. I next recurred to the Tripolitan war, and alluded
to the many deeds of daring performed by my gallant countrymen. But Bohun contended that their
feats of valor in a war against barbarians could not be regarded as a test of their ability
to battle on equal terms against the most accomplished seamen in the world. Bohun said that
the Shannon and the Guerriere, two of the finest frigates in the English navy, had recently
been fitted out and ordered to cruise on the American coast, with the expectation that a single-handed
contest between one of these vessels and an American frigate of the first class would humble
the pride of the Yankees, and decide the question of superiority. I could only reply that I
hoped the meeting would soon take place, and when it did, he would be as much astonished as
I should be gratified at the result.

The next morning after the above conversation, we were passing along the westerly side of the
island of Dominica, and Mr. Bohun expressed a wish to touch at Rosseau, the principal port
in the island, in order to obtain some desirable information. When off the mouth of the harbor,
orders were given for the sloop to lie off and on, while the supercargo was conveyed on shore
in the yawl, pulled by one of my Saba countrymen and myself. On reaching a landing place, Bohun
directed us to remain by the boat until he should return, which would be in the course of half
an hour, and tripped gayly up the wharf.

The town of Rosseau is pleasantly situated in a valley near the seashore. The harbor is little
better than an open roadstead, and is defended by strong fortifications overhanging the city.
The town has been three times destroyed; once by an inundation from the mountains after heavy
rains which swept away many of the dwellings and caused the death of numerous inhabitants.
Some ten or twenty years afterwards, when the town had been rebuilt, a destructive fire raged
through the place, laid it in ashes, and destroyed an immense deal of property. A third time
it was destroyed ay a furious hurricane, when nearly all the houses were demolished or unroofed,
and hundreds of the inhabitants were killed or seriously wounded. Having thus been at different
times a victim to the rage of three of the elements, air, fire, and water, many were led to
believe that the final destruction of the place would be caused by an earthquake.

It was about two o'clock in the afternoon when Bohun came down to the boat, having been absent
between three and four hours. His countenance was lighted up with a smile of gayety, and his
eyes sparkled as if he had joyful news to communicate.

"Well, John," he shouted as he came within hail, "there has been an arrival from Halifax, and
a piece of important intelligence has been received."

"Indeed, sir," said I, with a faltering voice, as from his cheerful bearing I anticipated unfavorable
tidings; "what is the character of the news?"

"A desperate battle has been fought between the British frigate Guerriere, and the American
frigate Constitution. What do you think of that?" added he, with a light laugh.

"Which gained the victory, sir?" said I, almost afraid to make the inquiry.

"One of the frigates," said he, without replying to my question, "was thoroughly whipped in
short order and in handsome style, dismasted and sunk, with one half of her crew killed and
wounded, while the injury the other received was hardly worth mentioning. Which do YOU think
gained the day?"

"The American frigate, of course," said I. "You are right, John," exclaimed Bohun with a laugh.
"THE CONSTITUTION HAS SUNK THE GUERRIERE. Brother Jonathan is looking up. He is a worthy descendant
of John Bull. I find you understand the character of your sailors better than I do."

After having imparted this interesting piece of intelligence, and telling my shipmate and myself
to remain by the boat until he should return, which would be in a few minutes, he again walked
nimbly up the street, and was soon lost to sight.

As in duty bound we remained at the wharf in expectation of the return of Bohun, but hour after
hour passed and he did not return. He was "enjoying life" among some boon companions, and over
a decanter of good wine, as he afterwards acknowledged, lost for a time all recollection of
the existence not only of the boat, but also of the sloop.

When the company broke up about nine o'clock in the evening, he came staggering down the wharf,
rolled himself into the stern seats of the boat, and ordered us to shove off and pull towards
the sloop. We represented to him that the night was dark and cloudy, and it would be next to
an impossibility to find the sloop in the broad bay at that hour; that the attempt would be
attended with risk, and consequently it would be wiser to wait until morning before we left
the quay.

Our remonstrances were of no avail. He insisted on going off immediately. Nothing, he said,
would induce him to wait until morning; he knew exactly where to find the sloop, and could
steer the boat directly alongside.

It was useless to argue with him, and we dared not disobey his orders. The motto of Jack, like
the submissive response of a Mussulman to an Eastern caliph, is "To hear is to obey." We left
the wharf and pulled briskly out of the harbor. But no sloop was to be seen. We stopped for
a moment to reconnoitre, but Bohun told us to keep pulling; it was all right; we were going
directly towards her. In a few minutes he dropped the tiller and sank down in the bottom of
the boat, where he lay coiled up like a hedgehog, oblivious to all that was passing around him.

By this time we were broad off in the bay; the lights in the town glimmered in the distance,
the stars shone occasionally through the broken clouds, the wind was light, and the sea comparatively
smooth. On consultation with my shipmate, we came to the conclusion it was hardly worth while
to pull the boat about in different directions on a bootless quest after the sloop. We also
rejected the idea of returning to the town. We laid in our oars, composed ourselves as comfortably
as we could beneath the thwarts, and with clear consciences resigned ourselves to sleep.

We must have slept for hours when we were awakened by an unpleasant and alarming noise. It
was some minutes before we could recollect ourselves and ascertain the cause of the hubbub.
It proved to be the roaring of the wind, the pattering of the rain, and the angry dash of the
waves. While we slept a severe squall had been gradually concocted among the mountains, and
now burst upon us in all its fury. How long the wind had been blowing we did not know; but
we did know we were some miles out to sea in a cockle-shell of a boat, and rapidly drifting
farther from the land. No lights could be seen in any quarter; but all around was dark and
drear. We supposed that as a matter of course the wind blew from the land, and therefore got
out our oars and pulled dead to windward, thus preventing further drift, and lessening our
danger by laying the boat head to the sea, which was now rapidly rising.

The squall continued for an hour after we were conscious of its existence; we were thoroughly
drenched, but exercise kept us warm; while Bohun still maintained his snug position beneath
the stern seats in a happy state of unconsciousness of the jarring of the elements and the
peril to which he was exposed. The first streaks of dawn were hailed with delight, and at broad
daylight we beheld the sloop, which had been driven to leeward during the night; and although
eight or ten miles from the land, she was not more than a couple of miles to windward of the
boat, and beating up towards the harbor. We awakened Bohun, whose garments were saturated by
the shower, and who seemed greatly amused with our account of the night's adventure. The wind
was fortunately light, and by dint of hard rowing, we soon got near enough to the Lapwing to
make signals, and were recognized. The sloop then bore away and ran down, and we were truly
rejoiced, fatigued, wet, hungry as we were, to stand again upon the deck.

Proceeding along to leeward of Martinico and St. Lucia, we came to St. Vincent, an island about
twenty miles in length from north to south, which was chiefly remarkable at that time as being
the only abiding place of the once numerous and warlike tribe of the Caribs, who inhabited
the Windward Islands when the American continent was discovered, and were doomed, like all
other tribes of their race, to wilt and die beneath the sun of civilization.

The Caribs, although described by historians as fierce and unpitying cannibals of the lowest
grade of human organization, undoubtedly possessed moral and intellectual faculties by no means
inferior to the great body of American Indians; but, like the tribe of savages which inhabited
the island of Hispaniola, and other tribes on the continent, they observed the custom of flattening
their heads, which gave to their features an unnatural and sinister expression, by no means
calculated to gain the good will and confidence of strangers. The head was squeezed, soon after
birth, between two boards, applied before and behind, which made the front and back part of
the head resemble two sides of a square. This custom is still retained among the Caribs of
St. Vincent.

The flattening of the head among the natives of Hispaniola was performed in a different manner,
and produced a different effect. The forehead only was depressed, almost annihilating the facial
angle, and swelling the back part of the head out of all proportion. The early Spanish settlers
complained of this savage custom, as subjecting them to much inconvenience. In the course of
their HUMANE experiments, they ascertained that, owing to the thickening of the back part of
the cranium caused by this process, the broadsword of the strongest cavalier could not cleave
the skull at a single blow, but would often snap off in the middle without serious damage to
the owner of the cranium!

When I passed along the shores of the island of St. Vincent, in 1810, I was particularly struck
with the wild and uncultivated appearance of the northern section, a huge mountain, or combination
of mountains, rudely precipitous, covered with luxuriant vegetation even to the summit, but
containing deep chasms or gorges, down which sparkling streams were rushing, forming numerous
waterfalls, and all constituting a wild, picturesque, and attractive landscape.

When I passed St. Vincent in the Lapwing, in October, 1812, a mighty change had taken place.
Every trace of vegetation had vanished from this part of the island; not a tree or a shrub
remained. The rivers were dried up, and even the deep and dark chasms and gorges no longer
existed. Cinders and ashes covered the mountain sides, and beds of lava were pouring down from
the summit, and hissing as they entered the ocean. On the 30th of April, about one month after
the terrible earthquake by which the city of Caraccas, three hundred and sixty miles distant,
was destroyed, and twelve thousand of the inhabitants buried in the ruins, an eruption took
place from an old crater on the summit of this mountain in St. Vincent, at which for more than
a century had shown no symptom of life. The eruption was sudden and over whelming. Stones and
ashes were scattered over the island; vessels more than a hundred miles to the eastward had
their decks covered with cinders, and the crews were terrified at the noises which attended
this fierce ebullition of the warring elements beneath the earth's surface. At St. Bartholomew,
distant from St. Vincent about three hundred miles, the explosions were distinctly heard, and
through the whole night were so continuous and loud as to resemble a heavy cannonading from
hostile fleets. Indeed, it was believed for several days that a desperate action between English
and French squadrons had been fought within the distance of a few miles. By this eruption the
vegetation on the north part of the island, comprising one third of the whole territory, was
destroyed, and the soil rendered sterile, being covered to a great depth with cinders and ashes.
All the lands in the immediate vicinity were also rendered unfit for cultivation. What is remarkable,
but few lives were lost. The unfortunate Caribs, however, who comprised about one hundred families,
dwelt in this ungenial and unproductive district, and were driven from their homes to find
elsewhere and nearer to the habitations of the whites, some desolate spot, shunned by all others,
where they could again set up their household gods.

Proceeding past St. Vincent we came to the Grenadines, a cluster of small islands and rocks
lying between St. Vincent and Grenada; two of which only, Bequia and Curriacou, are of any
importance. These two islands are fertile, and produce a considerable quantity of cotton. Others,
although small, are cultivated; and the isle of Rhoude, which lies within a few miles of Grenada,
is in itself a large cotton plantation. One of these islets, or, more properly speaking, isolated
rocks, lying not far from the shores of Grenada, and at a distance from the cluster is remarkable
as having been the scene of an event which tradition seems to have carefully, if not faithfully,
recorded. In the obstinate wars between France and Holland, in the middle of the eighteenth
century, a Dutch frigate, commanded by a burly and brave officer, a genuine fire-eater, especially
when he had his "schnapps" on board, was cruising under the lee of Grenada, and fell in with
a large ship, to which the frigate gave chase. The ship answered no signals, but hoisted a
white flag and fired a gun to windward, and was thus recognized as a French frigate or heavy
sloop-of-war.

Night was coming on, and the chase, with a pleasant breeze, stood on a wind to the northward
and eastward. The valiant "mynheer," whose courage, by means of schnapps, had been screwed
up to the sticking point, made all sail after the enemy, and caused a double portion of the
stimulating article to be served out to his crew. Under this invigorating influence he made
a speech, in which he promised a rich reward to all who would manfully assist in giving the
enemy a double dose of "donner and blitzen." He further promised that, to give his crew a good
chance to distinguish themselves, he would lay the ship alongside the enemy, and fight the
battle yard-arm and yard-arm. The gallant crew gave three hearty cheers, and swore to do their
duty as became the countrymen of Van Tromp.

Darkness soon came on. The night was cloudy, and the wind was moderate. The chase was lost
sight of, though it was believed the Dutchman was losing with the enemy hand over hand. The
decks were cleared for action, the deck lanterns lighted, the guns double-shotted, and men
with eyes of preternatural brilliancy stationed on the lookout.

Hours passed in anxious expectation, and another allowance of schnapps was served out to keep
up the spirits of the crew; when, to the great gratification of every man on board, a lookout
on the end of the flying jib-boom shouted, "Sail, ho!" The chase was soon distinctly visible,
looming up, not like a speck, but like a LARGE BLACK SPOT on the dark horizon. A bloody battle
was now certain to take place, and mynheer, combining discretion with valor, took in his light
sails, and got his ship into a condition to be easily handled..

The Frenchman was apparently lying to, waiting for his antagonist to come up. He did not have
long to wait. The Dutch frigate luffed up on his weather quarter, ranged alongside within musket
shot, and poured in a tremendous broadside, then shooting ahead, peppered the astonished enemy
in a truly scientific manner. The frigate then wore short round athwart the Frenchman's bows,
sweeping his decks with another terrible broadside. The Dutchman kept up the combat with a
degree of courage, energy, and spirit that was a marvel to behold; sometimes lying athwart
the enemy's wake and raking the decks with terrible effect; sometimes crossing the bows and
sending the devastating iron shower the whole length from stem to stern; and sometimes lying
bravely alongside, as if courting, as well as giving, hard knocks; and displaying, under these
critical circumstances, specimens of seamanship and maneuvering which would have commanded
the admiration of the great DeRuyter himself.

But a combat fought with such desperation could not last forever. One of the frigate's guns,
being overcharged, burst, killing several men and wounding others; and just as the first signs
of daybreak were seen in the east, the Dutchman hauled off to repair damages and count his
losses. The enemy apparently had not lost a spar, notwithstanding the terrible hammering he
had received, but continued doggedly lying to, preserving, to the great indignation of his
opponent, a most defiant attitude.

When daylight shone on the scene of battle, and the doughty Dutchman, having repaired damages,
was ready to renew the combat, it suddenly became manifest to every man on board the frigate
who had the proper use of his eyes, that the French ship-of-war which had so nobly sustained
a tremendous cannonading through the night, was neither more nor less than A HUGE ROCK, which,
with its head high above the surface, like the Sail-rock near the island of St. Thomas, marvellously
resembled a ship under sail. The captain of the frigate rubbed his eyes on beholding the unexpected
vision, as much astonished as the chivalrous Don Quixote, who, after an unsuccessful contest
with a squad of giants, found his enemies transformed into windmills. This rock was afterwards
known as rock Donner or Donnerock, and will stand forever an imperishable monument commemorative
of "Dutch courage."

The principal town in Grenada is St. George, which is situated on a bay on the south-west side
of the island, and is defended by heavy fortifications. On arriving at the mouth of the harbor
in the Lapwing, we fell in with a large brig-of-war, called the Ringdove, and was boarded before
we came to anchor in the bay. When the boat from the brig was approaching, it was strange to
see the trepidation which seized every one of our crew. Although all, with the exception of
myself, were in possession of genuine legal documents that should have served as impregnable
barriers against impressment, yet they had witnessed so many facts showing the utter disregard
of human or divine laws on the part of the commanders of British ships-of-war when in want
of men, that they awaited the result of the visit with fear and trembling.

A lieutenant came on board and conversed pleasantly with the captain and supercargo. The men
were mustered and called aft to the quarter-deck, and carefully scrutinized by the boarding
officer. Our protections were examined, but being printed or inscribed in the Swedish language,
were not read. Every thing appeared according to rule. The lieutenant looked hard at me as
John Lordick, and asked some questions of the captain, to which the captain replied, "He is
my brother," which seemed to settle the matter. The boat returned on board the Ringdove, and
I, as well as the others, rejoiced in having eluded impressment in a man-of-war.

The sloop was brought to anchor, and the cook and myself were ordered into the boat for the
purpose of setting the captain and supercargo on shore. We pulled around the principal fort,
which is situated on a point of land, and entered a beautiful land-locked harbor, or careenage,
where a number of vessels were lying at the wharves. The captain and supercargo landed on one
of these wharves, and the captain directed the cook to accompany him to the market square for
the purpose of procuring fresh provisions; I was ordered to remain by the boat.

When the captain was gone, and I was left standing alone, my thoughts again recurred to the
subject of impressment, which had so completely engrossed the minds of the crew that morning;
and I thought to myself, "Suppose some crafty, determined, unscrupulous officer of the Ringdove,
or some other British vessel, should be at this very time on shore, lounging about the wharves,
disguised as an inoffensive citizen, but watching an opportunity to pounce upon a poor unfortunate
fellow, like myself, and bear him off in triumph, to become a victim of the cat-o'-nine-tails
at the gangway, or food for gunpowder." While I was shuddering at the idea of such a climax
to my adventures, I saw a man coming towards me, whose countenance and demeanor aroused all
my suspicions. He was a thick-set, swarthy individual, with enormous black whiskers and sparkling
black eyes. He was dressed like a gentleman, but I thought his garments hung loosely about
him; indeed, his whole appearance, in my eyes, was that of the leader of a press-gang or the
captain of a band of pirates. He eyed me closely as he advanced towards me with what I conceived
to be a regular man-of-war swagger. Being driven to bay, I stood my ground firmly, and confronted
him.

"Do you belong to the sloop which is anchored in the bay, my lad?" inquired he, with a mild
voice and pleasant smile, affected, of course, to conceal his real intentions.

"Yes," was my rather curt reply.

"What is the name of the sloop?"

"Lapwing."

"Where does the Lapwing belong?"

"To St. Bartholomew."

"Where are you from last?"

"St. Bartholomew."

"Hum! What is the name of your captain?"

"James Lordick."

"Ah, James Lordick?" exclaimed he, with vivacity. "Indeed" Then addressing me abruptly, he
inquired, "Where do YOU belong?"

"Now for it," thought I to myself; "the time has come when I must plunge headforemost into
the sea of falsehood; so here goes." And I answered boldly, "To Saba."

"To Saba? Do you, indeed?" And he gazed at me with his piercing eyes, as if he could read my
very soul. "To Saba. You belong to Saba? What is your name?"

"John Lordick."

"Is it possible!" exclaimed my black-whiskered friend. "Are you REALLY John Lordick, the brother
of James? Good Lord! Who would have thought it!"

Thus strongly appealed to, I felt unable to reply except by an affirmative nod.

"So you are John Lordick? I heard you were dead. How the world is given to lying! I should
never have known you. You have changed amazingly since I left Saba six years ago, John."

As this remark did not necessarily require any reply, I made none. I now began to suspect that
I was mistaken in the estimate of the character of my interrogator that he was neither the
captain of a band of pirates nor the leader of a press-gang; and it being my first essay at
carrying out a system of falsehood, I was terribly frightened at the dilemma in which I was
involved. I lost my presence of mind, and instead of frankly avowing the truth, as policy,
as well as principle, would have dictated, I came to the conclusion to stick by my story, and
carry out the deception to the end of the chapter. But my mortification, my confusion, my chagrin,
at being subjected to this unforeseen cross-examination, can hardly be conceived. I envied
the condition of the wretch standing by the gallows with a noose around his neck. After a brief
pause, my tormentor continued "Do you recollect me?"

"No," said I, promptly; and glad of a chance to speak a little truth, I added, "To the best
of my knowledge, I never saw you before in my life."

"Ha! Ha! Ha!" My friend seemed greatly amused. "Can it be that I have changed so much within
a few short years? You knew me well enough once, John, when I lived opposite your father's
house. I am Lewis Brown." And in a friendly, but somewhat patronizing manner, he held out his hand.

"Indeed," said I, grasping his proffered hand, "Lewis Brown! I never should have recognized you."

"Yes," said Brown, "six years WILL make a change in one's appearance. I should never have recognized
you as John Lordick. How is your sister, Bertha, and all the rest of the folks?"

"Well, quite well."

"Whom did your sister marry?"

"She is not married yet," said I.

"Not married yet! Why, she must be at least twenty years old. When I left home, she was a beautiful
girl even then a belle. Not married, and in Saba! But she will be, soon, I suppose."

"Perhaps," said I.

"Ah! Ah! She is engaged, I see. Who is the happy man?"

"Indeed, I don't know," I exclaimed, wishing the inquisitive fellow at the bottom of the Red
Sea, with a twenty-four pound shot fastened to his feet.

"What has become of your cousin, Mark Haraden? Is he as lively and good-humored as ever?"

This Lewis Brown, delighted at having met with an old acquaintance, seemed bent on getting
all the information and gossip about his old cronies, that chance had thrown in his way. Fearing
I might perpetrate some palpable absurdity in my fabulous statements, as in the case of my
"sister Bertha," I resolved to kill off all his friends and relations in detail, without ceremony
or remorse. And therefore I replied to the question about Mark Haraden by saying,

"O! Mark was capsized by a squall while going in a boat from St. Martin to St. Bartholomew
with a load of sugar, and all hands were lost."

"Poor fellow! Poor fellow! I am sorry to hear this; but life's uncertain. Where is Nicholas
Ven Vert now?"

"Nicholas Van Vert? He happened to be at St. Kitts last year when the yellow fever broke out
there, and was attacked with it the day after he reached home, and lived only three days."

"Indeed! Indeed! Well, we should all be prepared for whatever may happen! How is old Captain
Wagner as hale and hearty as ever?"

"The old man slipped and fell over a precipice on the north side of the island a few weeks
ago, and broke his neck."

"Good Lord! What a terrible mortality among my best friends in Saba! I am almost afraid to
inquire after my old flame, Julia Hoffner. What has become of her?"

While I was considering in what way I should dispose of the fair and interesting Julia, a grinning
darkey, who had approached the wharf in great haste, shouted, "Captain Brown, massa mate wants
you on board, right off, directly"

I felt grateful to the dark-complexioned youth for the seasonable interruption, and secretly
resolved that if it should ever be in my power to do him a good turn, I would do it. Unfortunately
for him, I never saw him more.

Captain Brown seemed annoyed at the summons, and turning to me, said, "I suppose I must go,
John, but I'll be back in a minute. It's a real treat to talk to a Saba man. But you have told
me some sad news don't go away." And the inquisitive gentleman walked off, looking as sad and
forlorn as if he had really "lost all his friends," and leaving me half dead with terror lest
my falsehoods should be detected, and perspiring with remorse at having made such a rectangular
deviation from the strict line of truth.

I breathed more freely. I had obtained a respite from my sufferings. I cast a searching look
up the street, to see if the captain or the cook was coming, and on finding no signs of aid
from that quarter, I fairly turned my back upon the boat, and ran off to some distance, where,
concealed behind an old building, I could, by peering round a corner, note every transaction
which took place on the wharf.

A few minutes only elapsed when the inquisitive Captain Lewis Brown returned with hurried steps
to the spot where our conference was held. He seemed disappointed, and, I thought, somewhat
hurt at not finding his old acquaintance, John Lordick. He looked around inquiringly in every
direction, but apparently convinced that I had absconded, again walked away, but this time
slowly, as if pondering on the startling information I had given him. Soon afterwards the cook
came down loaded with fresh provisions. He brought orders from the captain to go on board immediately,
and return for him at twelve o'clock.

At the hour appointed, the boat, with myself pulling the bow oar, approached the wharf, where,
to my confusion, I found Captain Lordick in close conversation with my big-whiskered friend,
Lewis Brown. That gentleman gave me an angry look, but said not a word. It was clear that Captain
Lordick had betrayed the secret of my citizenship, and had given him information in regard
to his old friends and gossips, which differed materially from my extemporaneous effusions;
so that so far from being rejoiced, as a reasonable man would have been, at finding his friends
alive and well, he seemed greatly provoked, and eyed me with the ferocity of a cannibal on
learning that they had not shuffled off this mortal coil in the manner I had so feelingly described.

This gentleman proved to be the captain of a three-masted schooner, which traded between Cumana
and the Islands, bringing over cargoes of mules. He had resided in Saba in early life and bore
the reputation of a worthy and respectable man. I saw him several times after our memorable
interview; but he always regarded me with a grim look, as if he owed me a heavy grudge, and
would rejoice in an opportunity to pay it off.

Chapter XXVII. CROSSING THE MOUNTAINS

In the afternoon the sloop was hauled into the inner harbor, and on the following day we commenced
discharging cargo. I took an early opportunity to hold some conversation with Captain Lordick
on the subject of my change of name. The Lesson I had received in my agonizing interview with
Captain Brown made a deep impression on my mind, and doubtless had an effect in shaping my
character in future life.

I expressed my gratitude to Captain Lordick for the interest he took in my welfare, but frankly
told him I could no longer sail under false colors; that falsehood, in any shape, was alien
to my character; that I was determined to fall back on the name to which I was rightfully entitled,
a very good and quiet name in itself, and acknowledge myself in all times and places a native
citizen of the United States. If I should be involved in trouble by this straightforward and
honest mode of proceeding, impressed on board a man-of-war, or detained as a prisoner, in my
tribulations I should be able to bear a bold front and enjoy the glorious consciousness of
telling the truth and being no imposter.

The captain stared. Although a worthy and upright man, he could hardly appreciate the line
of conduct I had determined to adopt. He urged that if I remained in those seas, and avowed
myself an American without evidence of the fact, I should beyond all doubt be impressed, and
under such circumstances I should not only be justified by the strictest code of morality in
eluding the grasp of the kidnappers by changing my name, but be a great fool for rejecting
such a simple and harmless means of safety. Nevertheless, I remained firm in my determination.

In a few days the cargo was discharged, and I learned that the sloop was about to proceed on
a trip to Barbadoes, and that Mr. Thomas, the owner, intended to go in the sloop as a passenger
and take charge of the business. I had seen Mr. Thomas, who was a fine-looking, portly gentleman,
when he visited the sloop; but he had never spoken to me, and I had no longer any communication
with Mr. Bohun. Not a syllable had been lisped in relation to further compensation for my services
in St. Bartholomew, which, I supposed, had been undervalued or forgotten, as a matter of course.
But in this supposition I was unjust; for, on the day on which it was expected the Lapwing
would sail, Bohun came on board, and, referring to my conduct during the hurricane, said he
felt uneasy in regard to my situation in the sloop, especially as the Lapwing was bound to
a port which was much frequented by English men-of-war. He suggested that some business on
shore would be preferable to a voyage to the Island of Barbadoes.

I heartily assented to this view of the subject, but added, that having neither money, clothing,
nor friends, I felt rejoiced at procuring employment of any kind; but if I could obtain the
means of living in the island until I could meet a favorable opportunity to return to my native
country, this would be altogether more desirable than to be compelled to serve on board a man-of-war.

"Well," said Bohun, "I will represent your case to Mr. Thomas, and perhaps he will be able
to make some satisfactory arrangement."

In two hours afterwards the Lapwing was ready for sea, being confined to the wharf by a single
fast, when Mr. Thomas came on board accompanied by Bohun. Mr. Thomas, with a dignified and
patronizing air, said, "Young man, Mr. Bohun has just informed me that you rendered valuable
aid in saving my vessel from shipwreck in St. Bartholomew. It is a service that I cannot forget;
and I shall be happy to bestow upon you a suitable recompense. In the mean time you had better
go ashore. Mr. Bohun will take care of you, provide for your wants, and endeavor to procure
you a proper situation."

I accordingly went below, gathered together all my worldly effects, which were confined within
a very small pocket handkerchief, took an affectionate farewell of my worthy friend and QUONDAM
brother, Captain Lordick, and my Saba countrymen, and, lightly clad and barefooted, cheerfully
stepped on shore, somewhat amused at the sudden change in my destiny, and wondering what new
figure would be presented by the next shake of fortune's kaleidoscope.

Bohun said that the first step should be to find a cheap and comfortable boarding house, where
I could remain for a few days; that a widow woman kept a house of that description, he believed,
not far from the wharves. He pointed out the place, and suggested that I should call upon her
immediately, make use of his name, and ascertain her price for board, and afterwards proceed
to the counting room of Mr. Thomas, in a different part of the town, where we would confer
together further.

The boarding house to which Bohun directed my attention was an ordinary-looking abode; but
I cared little for its character, provided the price would suit. It was kept by a round-faced,
jolly-looking, middle-aged woman, whose complexion bore unmistakable evidence of her African
extraction. I told my errand. She threw a suspicious glance upon my person and on the diminutive
bundle I held in my hand, and the result was unfavorable.

Putting her arms akimbo, and assuming a stately manner, which appeared to be far from natural,
she told me she had no spare room for boarders her house was already full.

"Very well," said I, "I must then apply elsewhere. Mr. Bohun said he thought you would accommodate
me, and he would be responsible for the pay."

"Mr. Bohun! O, that's another thing. I can always find room for a friend of Mr Bohun;" and
the whole broad expanse of her face was brightened by a smile.

On inquiry I found that the price for board was two dollars and a half a day! I was startled
at this announcement. The amount struck me as exorbitant when compared with the accommodations.
I had a secret misgiving that the good woman had not scrupled in this case to add at least
a hundred and fifty per centum to her customary charges. I told her I would consult Mr. Bohun,
and be guided by his advice.

I lost no time in proceeding to Mr. Thomas's counting room. I communicated to Bohun the result
of my inquiries, expressing an opinion that the price for board was exorbitantly high. To my
astonishment he seemed well satisfied, pronouncing it reasonable enough. Being unaccustomed
to the usages of the place, I supposed it must be all right, and made no further objections.

Bohun took me to a clothing shop, and rigged me out from head to foot in a suit of decent garments
a luxury to which I had for some time been a stranger. He also bought me an extra supply of
clothing, and a variety of other articles which he assured me I should need.

I was amazed at his liberality; but knowing Mr. Thomas was a rich man, I presumed that Bohun,
by ministering to my wants in a manner not altogether offensive to my pride, was seeking to
cancel obligations on the part of his employer, and perhaps at the same time was obeying the
dictates of a benevolent heart, by rendering important assistance to a stranger in adversity.

Week after week passed away. I saw Bohun from time to time, but he could not procure me a desirable
situation. In the mean time the expenses for my board seemed to me a serious matter. My pride
took the alarm, and I could not rest easy under the idea that I was all the while living like
a price at the expense of Mr. Thomas. When I mentioned this to Bohun, he told me to keep quiet
and give myself no anxiety; that my expenses, which I regarded as so heavy, were in reality
trifling, and Mr. Thomas would never miss the amount.

A few days after this conversation, Bohun called at my lodgings, and seemed quite excited.
"Hawser," said he, "I have pleasant news to communicate. I have been so fortunate as to secure
you an excellent situation on a plantation in the north part of the island. Mr. Church, the
attorney for the Pearl estates, was in town yesterday, and on my recommendation has consented
to take you to fill a vacancy, in preference to several young men who are applicants for the
place."

"I should much prefer a situation as clerk on a wharf or in a counting room," said I.

"O," replied Bohun, "this chance with Mr. Church is far better than a simple clerkship with
a trader; the duties are not so arduous, and it will give you a better opportunity to rise
in the world; besides, Mr. Church is an excellent man, a whole-souled Irishman, who has been
in the army, and has great influence in the island. He will send a mule and a guide over the
mountains tomorrow; so you must prepare for the journey on the following day."

"Very well," said I, hardly knowing whether to be pleased or dissatisfied with this arrangement,
which I decided, however, to accept, with a mental determination, if I found my situation objectionable,
to abandon it at once, and if I could do no better, try my fortunes again on the ocean. In
the mean time, I should see a new and perhaps interesting phase in life.

"The Upper Pearl estate, where you will reside," continued Bohun, "is one of the healthiest
estates on the island. On some of the sugar plantations, 'fever and ague' prevails at certain
seasons of the year, but is unknown on the Pearl estates. Your situation will be a pleasant
one in every respect."

I shuddered at the idea of fever and ague, with the name of which disease the most pleasant
associations were not connected, and congratulated myself on the fact that the Pearl estates
were exempted from this and almost every other evil in the shape of sickness. The next day
I completed my preparations for a journey across the mountains to the opposite side of the
island. Agreeably to a suggestion from Bohun, I procured from my accommodating landlady her
bill for my board and lodging; to this she added another item for washing, swelling the amount
to the very respectable sum of sixty-six dollars.

I handed the bill to Bohun with an innocent and confiding look. He cast his eye over it, and
started back aghast. "What is all this?" said he. "What does it mean? Why, the woman is crazy."

"It is right, sir," I replied. "Twenty-five days at two dollars and a half a day come to sixty-two
dollars and a half; and the washing, at one dollar a week, she says she cannot do it for less,
makes a sum total of sixty-six dollars. It is the amount agreed on, although you recollect
I expressed an opinion more than once that the price for board was extravagantly high."

"Two dollars and a half a DAY!" shouted he. "Why, I understood the price to be two dollars
and a half a WEEK, and supposed that half a doubloon would pay the whole debt."

He seemed quite indignant at "the imposition," and indulged in severe remarks on the character
of the woman with whom I boarded. He threatened to give her a regular reprimanding, and swore
he would cut down her bill to less than one third of the amount.

On the following morning, at about seven o'clock, I again went to the counting room, and found
opposite the entrance a mule already bridled and saddled, with a negro guide to show me the
way, over the mountains by the Grand Etang route, to the Upper Pearl estate. I took leave of
Bohun, who wrung my hand affectionately at parting, and taking the direction indicated by my
guide, entered on my journey.

The road was rough and muddy, for there had been heavy rains, the mule was lazy, and I was
unaccustomed to this kind of travelling; besides, I found much on the route to excite my attention;
much which was novel and highly interesting. My progress was consequently slow. The road passed
among the sugar plantations, which were confined to the comparatively low lands near the sea
shore; then ascending towards the mountains, winded through coffee and cacao estates, the successful
cultivation of which articles of commerce requires a cooler and moister region than the sugar-cane.

During this journey, I often stopped my mule on the summit of a commanding height, and gazed
admiringly around on the beautiful and extensive prospect. The well-cultivated plantations,
each appearing like a village in itself, scattered among the many hills and valleys and intervals
even to the very sea coast; the sea beyond, which at that distance seemed as smooth and polished
as a mirror, encasing the island in a frame of silver; the luxuriant tropical foliage, whose
beauty I had often heard described; the cocoanut, orange, tamarind, and guava trees, loaded
with fruit, with plantains, bananas, pineapples, aloes and cactuses on every side, all filled
my heart with wonder and delight.

Taking the road leading over the mountains, which is impassable for carriages, I passed through
vast tracks of forest, where the lofty trees were covered with stout vines reaching to the
tree tops, rendering it difficult for man to penetrate those sylvan recesses. Near the highest
part of this mountain road, at a height of several thousand feet above the sea, is situated
a romantic lake, called by the French the Grand Etang, or Great Lake, which fills the crater
of an extinct volcano. Near this spot, where the atmosphere is always cool and humid, we were
suddenly enveloped in a cloud, and soon experienced the peltings of a tropical shower. I received
conclusive evidence that my garments were not water-proof before we could find shelter in a
negro hut by the wayside.

After passing the Grand Etang, we began to descend the mountains on our way towards the north
side of the island. The sun again shone brightly, and again a beautiful and expanded prospect
met my view. To the eastward was the little town of Greenville, situated at the head of a beautiful
bay, in which several ships and quite a number of small vessels were riding at anchor. Far
to the north was seen the high and rugged island of St. Vincent, rising like a blue and jagged
cloud out of the sea; and between that island and the shores of Grenada, a birdseye view could
be obtained of the little islands and rocks, some cultivated and some barren, known as the
Grenadines. Among the plantations which appeared afar off, nearest the sea coast, my guide
pointed out the Pearl estates, which, he said, with a degree of pride that caused me some astonishment,
produced more sugar than any two estates in that part of the island.

In the course of the route, I asked a thousand questions of my guide, who was an intelligent
slave belonging to the Upper Pearl estate, and seemed delighted with an opportunity to display
his knowledge. He gave me much information, which I subsequently found to be correct, in relation
to the mode of managing estates in the West Indies, and conducting the economy of those establishments,
each of which, although of course subjected to the general laws of the colony, was in those
days a community of itself, under the government of an absolute despotism, the best government
in the world provided "the head man" possesses the attributes of goodness, wisdom, and firmness,
and is exempt from the imperfections which seem inseparably attached to human nature. But when
a despot can boast of none of those attributes, woe to the people who are obliged to submit
to his oppressions and obey his behests!

The island of Grenada, as is indeed the case with most of the Windward Islands, is well watered
by rivers running from the mountains. Some of the streams are of considerable size, and are
never dry in seasons of the greatest drought. The water, conducted by canals from these rivers,
constituted the chief motive power for the machinery on the sugar estates, although in a few
cases windmills were used for that purpose. The estates comprised each an area of some two
to five hundred acres, a considerable portion of which was planted with the cane. The remainder
was improved as sites for the various buildings, gardens for the slaves, fields of corn and
"guinea grass," and other purposes. The "sugar works" were placed as near the centre of the
estate as convenience would admit. The manager's house, which was a large, inconvenient, one-story
building, with numerous out-houses, was generally situated on an elevated spot of land in the
vicinity. Another house of smaller size was occupied by the overseers.

At no great distance from the "sugar works," and sometimes in close proximity, was a collection
of huts, thirty or forty in number, cheaply constructed, with thatched roofs, and huddled together
without any regard to order, or even convenience. These were known as "negro houses," the dwellings
of the slaves, where, when their daily tasks were ended, they could rest from their labors,
and enjoy, without restraint, the few comforts which shed a gleam of sunshine over their condition.

In their houses and families, the slaves made their own regulations. Their enjoyments consisted
chiefly in social gatherings and gossip. The women derived gratification from showy dresses
and decorations, and sometimes displayed their barbarian tendencies by indulging a love for
scandal and mischief-making. They seemed constitutionally gay and cheerful, as was seen by
their merry jokes and songs; and a loud, ringing, contagious, African laugh, in the jocund
chorus of which many joined, was elicited on very slight provocation.

In their habitations the slaves were greatly influenced, and sometimes controlled, by one or
more intelligent individuals, who held superior positions, as is often the case in other communities.
The most important person among them was the "head field-driver," who held that position on
account of his superior intelligence and fidelity. The "head boiler" was also a man of consequence
among them, also the head carpenter, cooper, and mule-driver. These and others filled situations
of responsibility, which required more than ordinary capacity. Of these trusts they were proud.

The manager or overseer on a plantation seldom interfered in the domestic arrangements of the
slaves. Their religious and moral instruction was neglected. The marriage tie was not regarded
as an indissoluble knot, but as a slender thread, to be broken by either party at will. It
is therefore not remarkable that the habits and conduct of these children of bondage were not
of the most exemplary character. Each family, who wished it, had a small lot of ground set
apart as a garden in some district bordering upon the mountains, where those who were frugal
and industrious cultivated yams, cassava, plantains, and other varieties of vegetables or fruit,
which were sold to managers of estates, or carried to the nearest town on a Sunday and sold
in the market place. In this way some of the most thrifty could supply all reasonable wants,
and even indulge in luxuries, which made them the envy of their neighbors; for even in the
lowly negro houses of those plantations, as in every other assemblage of human beings, without
regard to CASTE or color, were exhibited all the passions, virtues, and weaknesses incident
to human nature.

Sunday in the island was generally regarded as a holiday. The slaves on the plantations on
that day passed hours in cultivating their gardens, as well as in disposing of their produce
and attending to their other concerns. The planters visited each other on the Sabbath, gave
dinner parties, made excursions to the neighboring towns to supply their wants at the stores,
attended militia musters and shooting matches, indulged in games of quoits and other sports.
But religious services and religious instruction were almost entirely unknown. Young men often
came to the island who were educated in the strictest Presbyterian faith; lineal descendants
of the old Scottish Covenanters; they were scandalized at the little attention given to religious
duties and the habitual and open violation of the Sabbath. A few months, however, of familiarity
with the customs of the island produced a striking change in their ideas and acts; and their
consciences, which were troublesome at first, were soon in a state of quiescence.

A small amount of salted provisions, ling, stock fish, or salt fish was served out every week
to the slaves on the plantations as a relish for their vegetables; and a limited, indeed scanty,
supply of coarse clothing was annually distributed among them. For other articles of food and
clothing, the slaves were compelled to rely on their own industry and management, excepting
in "crop time," when the sugar works were in operation, and every person was allowed an unlimited
amount of sirup, which is highly nutritious and wholesome.

On every plantation might be found some wretched-looking, thriftless, or lazy negroes, of the
vagabond order. These miserable beings formed the lowest caste, and were despised and often
persecuted by those of their fellow-slaves who were orderly and industrious, and cherished
habits of self-respect. These were the "pariahs" of the plantation, constituting a class of
runaways, who, to avoid work or punishment, or the gibes and jeers of their more RESPECTABLE
companions, took refuge in the mountains, and in some of the islands became formidable by their
numbers and ferocity. In Dominico, at one period, these run-away negroes, MAROONS, as they
were called, amounted to more than a thousand. They were organized and armed, and subsisted
by committing depredations and levying contributions on the plantations. They were subdued
only after a desperate and protracted struggle.

The owners of plantations in the English West India Islands, as I have already intimated, usually
resided at "home," in "Merry England," or the "Land of cakes;" and if they realized a handsome
yearly profit from their estates, seldom interested themselves in the condition or welfare
of the slaves. Their agents in the islands were called ATTORNEYS, and were vested with almost
unlimited power in the management of the property. The trust was an important one, and the
labors of an attorney were well compensated, which made the situation desirable. It was sometimes
the case that a person who bore a high character for shrewdness and efficiency acted as attorney
for several estates. This gave him great power and influence, moral and political, in the island.

The ATTORNEY, holding a grade higher than that of MANAGER, kept a separate establishment, and
lived in a loftier style. He often resided in a pleasant and healthy location, some miles,
perhaps, distant from the estate whose interest he was appointed to look after, and revelled
in tropical luxury and aristocratic grandeur. The details of operations on the plantations
were left to the manager, who was appointed by the attorney; and this situation being one of
great importance, the manager being intrusted with the management of the slaves and the cultivation
of the estate, required an incumbent of superior administrative abilities and large experience.

The manager had generally two assistants to aid him in his arduous task, and direct the operations
on the plantation. During half the year, while the canes were planted and growing, these assistants
superintended the agricultural labors and attended to various other matters, and in "crop time,"
in addition to their usual duties, one had charge of the distillery and the other looked after
the manufacture of sugar.

These assistants were called BOOKKEEPERS or OVERSEERS. They were principally young men, of
good characters, steady habits, and well educated, who had left their homes in Scotland to
seek their fortunes in the West Indies. Those who were not swept off by malignant diseases
incident to tropical climates, and who continued correct in their conduct which was not always
the case  after a few years would be promoted to the situation of manager; and perhaps in time,
if they evinced sufficient capacity, would reach the highest object of their ambition and become
an attorney. It will be recollected that the poet Burns passed a whole day in taking leave
of his "Highland Mary," when he had made his arrangements for going to the West Indies and
obtaining a situation as overseer on a sugar plantation. Very few cases ever came to my knowledge
where a creole, a white person born and "brought up" in the West Indies, was engaged on an
estate in any capacity. The creoles were reputed lazy, loose in their morals, ignorant and
unfaithful agents. They were seldom employed, unless on a plantation which was notoriously
unhealthy; where no man, unless he was born in the torrid zone, could expect to resist successfully
the poisonous effects of the miasma.

From what I have said it will be inferred that the manager of a plantation possessed great
power, and that the treatment of the slaves was regulated in a great measure by the promptings
of his head and heart. A manager with a clear understanding, equable temper, and elevated principles,
could reconcile his duty to the proprietor with justice and even kindness towards the slaves.
So far from treating them with cruelty or even severity, he allowed them every reasonable indulgence,
and while he exacted the full quota of labor, looked after their condition, and made them as
comfortable and contented as can be expected in a state of bondage. Such managers were seen
in Grenada, and where they ruled, the estates were prosperous, and the slaves cheerful and happy.

Some managers, however, were of a different character, and, instigated by whim, liquor, an
evil temper, hatred to the African race, or a desire to get an impossible amount of work, acted
the part of tyrants and oppressors, and made the slaves feel that they were trodden beneath
the foot of a master.

But policy, a regard for the interest of the owner of the estate, generally prevented the infliction
of ill treatment and privations which bore severely on the slaves; and public opinion, as well
as the laws of the colony, restrained the manager from the commission of extraordinary acts
of cruelty. In the British island of Tortola, only a few years before my sojourn in Grenada,
the manager of a plantation was arrested for causing the death of a slave by inhuman punishment.
He was tried, convicted of murder, and hanged. The penalty exacted met the sanction of public
opinion. A full report of the trial was published in a pamphlet form and circulated among the
islands, and was doubtless the means of preventing similar acts of monstrous cruelty.

Chapter XXVIII. SCENES IN GRENADA

Owing to the many delays on my route across the mountains, it was twilight when I reached an
ordinary looking house, situated on an elevated piece of land surrounded on every side by fields
of sugar cane. The lands in the vicinity appeared low, and there were indications of swamps
at no great distance. About a mile off, in a northerly direction, was the broad ocean. A mule,
saddled and bridled, stood at the door. My guide told me, with an air of triumph, that this
was the Upper Pearl estate.

As I alighted from my mule, a tall man, with a sad countenance, thin and pallid cheeks, and
a tottering frame, came out of the house leaning upon the arm of another person. This sickly-looking
gentleman, who proved to be the manager, welcomed me to the plantation, and expressed satisfaction
at my arrival. He was on the point of leaving the estate for a few days, he said, on a visit
to a friend near the mountains. In the mean time Mr. Murray, the gentleman by whom he was supported,
was to look after the plantation and attend to my comforts. This spectral-looking object then,
with difficulty, mounted his mule, and accompanied by an able-bodied negro on foot, slowly
rode away from the estate.

Mr. Murray received me with cordiality, and tendered me the hospitalities of the mansion. He
was a man of pleasing address and more than ordinary intelligence. I afterwards learned that
he was the secretary of Mr. Church, the attorney for the Pearl estates. After some little conversation,
he abruptly asked me what quarter of the world I came from.

"I am an American," was my not very definite reply.

"O," he remarked, with a significant wink, which was evidently intended as a good-natured hint,
"you are from Canada, or Nova Scotia, I suppose."

"No, sir," said I, emphatically, determined that my position should be distinctly understood,
"I was born in the town of Tyngsboro, in the state of Massachusetts, and am a citizen of the
United States."

Having a vague suspicion that the Pearl estate was not the paradise described by Bohun, I inquired
why the manager had left the estate so abruptly.

"Because he is attacked with fever, and would not live forty-eight hours if he remained here."

I was shocked at this announcement, and pursued my inquiries. "Is fever a common occurrence
on this plantation, or is this sickness of the manager an extraordinary case?"

"Common enough, in all conscience," replied Murray, with a laugh. "Mr. Orr is the second manager
who has been driven off by sickness within the last six months. Two overseers have died within
a year, one after the other, and until Mr. Church met with YOU, no one could be found to take
the place, which has been vacant several weeks."

This was interesting intelligence, but I continued my inquiries. "If the estate is so unhealthy
as you represent, why are YOU willing to remain here?"

"O, my stay here will be only a few days, or weeks, at most. Besides, I am well seasoned, having
resided ten years in the island; and I make it a rule to keep my system well fortified against
fever by the liberal use of generous liquors; and if you hope to LIVE here, you will do well
to follow my example."

"Mr. Bohun told me that the upper Pearl estate was one of the healthiest on the island. How
could he have been so grossly deceived?"

"Deceived? Not he; all humbug."

"But he surely does not know the estate is so unhealthy?"

"Not know it? Bohun not know it? Certainly he does. Every body knows it. Every estate has its
reputation, and the reputation of the Pearl estates, both of them, is NOTORIOUSLY BAD. No man,
unless his courage or his fortune is desperate, will take a situation on either of these plantations."

I was astonished, dumbfounded at this intelligence, which effectually silenced further inquiries.
After a short pause, Murray proceeded: "The fact is, Mr. Church told me all about the matter
yesterday afternoon. Bohun found it difficult to procure you such a situation as you wanted,
and was anxious to get you off his hands. Meeting Mr. Church in town, he asked him to take
you. Mr. Church objected, telling him it would be a pity to place you on the Pearl plantation,
where you might drop off in less than six weeks. But Bohun urged the matter; requested it as
a personal favor; and they being countrymen, you know and so and so you see your business was
done, and here you are."

I undoubtedly looked grave at the interesting information thus frankly given; and Murray, remarking
it, continued, in a consolatory tone: "Never mind, my good fellow; keep up your spirits. I
thought it best to tell you the worst at once, and let you know what you have to expect. You
will have to go through a regular seasoning; and if you can stand that on the Pearl estate,
you may take your degree of M.D. as Doctor of Malaria, and bid defiance to yellow fever forever
after!"

I was not ambitious of such a distinction, and would gladly have declined it, were it possible;
but, on calmly surveying my position, there appeared no alternative. Relying on the correctness
of Bohun's suggestions and the disinterestedness of his counsels, I had taken a step which
could not, for a time at least, be retraced. I therefore determined to go forward and make
the best of it; look on the bright side of my situation, if it had any bright side, faithfully
perform the duties of my office, and trust to my constitution and regular habits, in spite
of the counsels of Murray, for the rest.

I felt hurt at the conduct of Bohun, which from Murray's version was not such as I was prepared
to expect, notwithstanding my experience in the dark side of human nature. I still hoped that
Murray's statements might be exaggerated, and that Bohun was actuated in his conduct towards
me by feelings of grateful kindness.

On the following day Mr. Church visited the estate. He was a middle-aged man, had held a captain's
commission in one of those British West India regiments which, after having been reduced to
mere skeletons by battles with the French and yellow fever, were unjustly and inhumanly disbanded,
at a long distance from "home," leaving the brave men, who were thus rewarded for their services,
to return to their native country as they could, or struggle for a precarious existence in
a tropical climate.

Mr. Church chose to remain in the island and engage in the planting business. Possessing energy
of character and rectitude of principle, and having influential connections, he became in a
few years the attorney for the Pearl estates, married the daughter of a Scotch planter, and
resided very pleasantly and happily at a beautiful seat called Bel-Air, situated a few miles
from the Upper Pearl. He entered into conversation with me, instructed me in my duties, regretted
the absence of the manager, which might unpleasantly affect my comforts, and gave me some precautionary
hints in relation to my health. I felt somewhat reassured by my conversation with that gentleman,
and erroneously believing it would be in my power to leave the island if I should think proper,
at no distant period, indulged in no unavailing regrets, but philosophically resolved to make
myself as comfortable as circumstances would allow.

The treatment I met with among the planters, during my whole residence in the island, was that
of unvarying kindness; many of them were well educated and cultivated a literary taste; had
well-furnished libraries, which were not kept for show; and the history and writings of Ramsay,
Ferguson, Burns, Beattie, Robertson, Blair, and other distinguished Scottish authors, were
as familiar with some of the planters in Grenada "as household words." The early novels of
the "Wizard of the North" were then exciting much interest, which was shared by the inhabitants
of the English West India Islands.

The mildness of the climate seemed to have a tendency to melt away that frigidity which is
a characteristic of people of the north, and the residents of the island were as frank, free,
and hospitable as if they had never been out of the tropics. I soon formed many pleasant acquaintances
and acquired many friends. And this, with the aid of books in abundance, enabled me to pass
my leisure hours agreeably. Notwithstanding the heat of the climate, and the prevalence of
the erroneous idea that violent physical exercise in the tropics is injurious to the health
of strangers, I indulged often in recreations of a kind which excited the surprise and called
forth the remonstrances of my friends.

From my earliest recollection, I was a devoted disciple of good old Izaak Walton, and the rivers
on the north side of the island, rushing down from the mountains, with deep pools, and rocky
channels, and whirling eddies, being well stocked with finny inhabitants, furnished me with
fine opportunities to indulge in the exciting sport of angling. My efforts were chiefly confined
to the capture of the "mullet," a fish resembling the brook trout in New England in size and
habits, although not in appearance. It is taken with the artificial fly or live grasshopper
for bait; and to capture it, as much skill, perseverance, and athletic motion is required as
to capture trout in the mountain gorges of New Hampshire.

I also occasionally indulged my taste for rambling in the mountains. In these excursions, which,
although exceedingly interesting, were solitary, for I never could persuade anyone to accompany
me, I always took a gun, making the ostensible object of my rambles the shooting of RAMEES
birds of the pigeon species, of beautiful plumage, nearly as large as a barnyard fowl, and
of delicate flavor. These birds inhabited the deepest recesses of the woods, and, although
seldom molested, were exceedingly shy.

Few animals are found in the forests and mountains of Grenada. The agouti, the armadillo, and
the opossum, are sometimes, though rarely, seen. The only quadruped I ever met with in my rambles
was an opossum, which I shot as it was climbing a tree. Of reptiles there are none in the mountains.
There are several kinds of snakes in the island, some of which have never been described by
naturalists. The species which is most common is a black snake (constrictor) of large size,
being frequently eight or ten feet in length, and three or four inches in diameter. These snakes
are treated not only with forbearance but kindness by the planters, and in return render important
service on the sugar plantations, being most persevering and successful RAT CATCHERS; rats
are abundant, and exceedingly destructive to the sugar cane, on which they subsist during a
considerable portion of the year. None of the serpents in Grenada are poisonous, but in some
of the islands, particularly St. Lucia, there exists a snake which resembles the rattlesnake
in the ferocity of its attacks and the deadly venom of its bite. Having no rattles, no warning
of danger is given to the unwary traveller until the snake darts from its ambush and inflicts
a fatal wound; hence the name given to this dangerous reptile is the LANCE DE FER.

In penetrating those mountain gorges, and climbing those mountain ridges, steep and thickly
covered with forest trees and vines of many kinds, and of luxuriant growth, I sometimes passed
hours without meeting any sign of life, except the flitting and hum of the humming-bird, and
the loud and musical coo of the ramee. That mountain wilderness seemed the chosen home of the
humming-bird. I there met with many varieties, some of which were exceedingly beautiful. My
appearance in those forests caused them much surprise, and to gratify their curiosity they
sometimes flew towards me, and hovered within a few feet of my face, as if eager to examine
my appearance and learn what object led me to intrude on their mountain haunts.

There were, however, other and less interesting inhabitants in that region, as I one day discovered
to my great consternation. I was passing up the bed of a small stream, where the water, by
attrition during many ages, had worn a chasm or "flume" through the solid basaltic rock, the
walls of which rose at least a hundred feet nearly perpendicularly, when I found an obstacle
to my further progress in the shape of some large rocks, which had fallen from above and blocked
the passage. I was unable to scale the CHEVAUX-DE-FRISE; but the whole body of water poured
through an aperture three or four feet above the bed of the stream; and although it looked
dark and dreary within, instead of retracing my steps to find another route through the woods
to the spot I wished to reach, I determined to force my way into the gloomy cavern, with the
expectation of being able to emerge on the opposite side.

I listened for a moment at the mouth of the aperture, but heard only the murmuring of the stream
as it swept along through the uneven channel. I then thrust in my head, when I heard a rushing
noise as of the flapping of a thousand wings, and the next moment I was sprawling on my back
in the water, having been summarily capsized, partly by force and partly by an involuntary
start of terror!

I raised my head and beheld a legion of BATS, some of them of uncommon size, issuing in a stream
from the mouth of the cave. These animals in the tropics are numerous, and seclude themselves
from the light of day in caverns or other dark and lonely recesses, where they attach themselves
to the roof, and clinging to each other are suspended in large pyramidal clusters or festoons.
When disturbed, they take wing, and hastily quit their abodes. By unthinkingly intruding on
their territories, which had probably never before been invaded, great alarm was excited among
the inmates; a terrible confusion ensued, and the general rush to the aperture caused my unceremonious
overthrow.

In one of my mountain excursions, I lost my way while enveloped in a dense mist, and, after
descending a steep ridge, came upon a platform or terrace of several acres' extent, which at
first view seemed to have been formed by artificial means on the mountain side. This plain
was level, and thickly covered with coarse grass, which, finding a genial soil and region,
grew to a height of five or six feet. Near the centre of the prairie stood the only tree which
flourished on this fertile spot. It was a silk cotton tree. I made my way through the grass
with difficulty to the tree, which by measurement I found to be twenty-five feet in circumference
larger than any other tree I ever saw in the island. Immense branches shot out horizontally
about twenty feet from the ground, extending to a distance in every direction from the trunk
sixty or eighty feet. Indeed, the gigantic size of the tree, its rich and luxuriant foliage,
and its noble and majestic appearance, were in perfect keeping with the place. I tarried some
time beneath its branches, and gazed with interest on the picturesque scene, regretting that
I had no companion to share my admiration, and thinking that as doubtless no human being, unless
some wild Carib in days of yore, had ever previously visited that singular spot, so it was
likely centuries would pass away before any other individual would chance to behold and admire
that beautiful terrace on the mountain side. I then plunged among the trees and vines growing
upon the steep declivity on the further side, and, after a precipitous retreat of two or three
hundred feet, heard the murmuring of a stream below, by following which I at length reached
a cultivated district.

The clouds on those mountain tops often collect with extraordinary quickness, and, while the
sun is shining brightly on the cultivated lands, pour down the rain in deluging showers, which,
rushing in cataracts through the gorges, swell the rivers unexpectedly, sometimes causing fatal
disasters by sweeping away horsemen or teams when fording the streams. The rise of a river
from this cause is sometimes alarmingly sudden; the water comes down in solid phalanx, six
or eight feet in perpendicular height, and extends from bank to bank; and with irresistible
force sweeps down rocks and trees, shaking the earth on the banks, and making a loud and rumbling
noise like distant thunder.

The vicinity of Grenada to the continent causes this island, as well as Tobago and Trinidad,
to be exempt from the hurricanes which have proved a terrible scourge in several of the Windward
Islands, and from time to time have been terribly destructive to life and property. In Barbadoes,
on the 10th of October, 1780, nearly all the plantations were ruined by a hurricane of inconceivable
fury, and between four and five thousand persons lost their lives. Grenada has only once been
visited by a hurricane since its first settlement by a French colony from Martinico, in 1650.
But this hurricane was the means of removing a far greater evil, the circumstances attending
which were of an extraordinary nature, and which I shall relate as I learned them from the
lips of many who were witnesses of their occurrence.

It was about the commencement of the present century that this island suffered much from a
visitation, which threatened to bring famine and desolation, and destroy, not only the present,
but the future hopes of the planter. There suddenly appeared, simultaneously in different parts
of the island, a great number of BLACK ANTS, of large size, being fully an inch in length,
and of a kind until then unknown in Grenada. They probably belonged to the species known as
"the large black ant of Africa," remarkable for its boldness and voracity. Although the inhabitants
of that fruitful island were wont to treat strangers with hospitality, they were inclined to
depart from their usual habit so far as related to these new and strange visitants, who seemed
inclined to be more troublesome than was consistent with the welfare of the old residents.

In the course of a couple of years the number of these invaders increased to an incredible
amount; they attacked the fruit on the trees and the vegetables in the gardens; and the fields
of sugar cane, once so green and flourishing, soon looked as if a fire from heaven, the scourge
of an offended deity, had passed over them. Not only the fields, but the trees, the roads,
and the dwelling houses, were covered with these ants; and when all sustenance was destroyed
in one quarter, they took up their line of march in immense armies and proceeded elsewhere
in search of food. In these migratory excursions, if they came to a brook or small river, their
progress was not stayed. Those in front were impelled into the stream by the pressure from
behind; and, although myriads were swept away and drowned in the rushing waters, many were
borne to the other side and continued their journey. In some cases, where the current was not
strong, a sort of living bridge was formed, over which immense numbers of these pestiferous
insects passed in safety and dry shod. Nothing seemed to check their progress or reduce their
numbers.

The inhabitants, both white and black, as may be conceived, were in great consternation, and
were about to make preparations to move to some more favored soil, when a furious hurricane
was experienced. The destruction of property was great; dwelling houses and sugar works were
destroyed, and lives were lost. The inhabitants who survived the tempest were in despair, believing
their calamities would never cease. But they soon found, to their great joy, that this hurricane
was a blessing, rather than a curse. THE BLACK ANTS WERE EXTERMINATED, and none have since
been seen in the island.

Chapter XXIX. INSURRECTION IN GRENADA

I have already stated that the French established their first settlement in the island of Grenada
in 1650. They found the island inhabited by the Carib Indians, who, regarding the white men
as beings superior in goodness as well as intellect, gave them a cordial welcome, and treated
them with kindness and hospitality. The French, well pleased with their reception, gave the
cacique a few hatchets, knives, and beads, and a barrel of brandy, and very coolly took possession
of the island they had thus purchased.

The remonstrances of the Caribs against the wrongs they were doomed to suffer were as little
heeded by the colonists as the complaints of Caliban by Prospero. The French were resolute,
powerful, and rapacious, and treated the red men with inhumanity. The Indians, unable to contend
with their oppressors by open force, fled to their mountain fastnesses, and commenced an obstinate
predatory warfare upon the whites, murdering without discrimination all whom they found defenceless.
This led to a bloody and protracted struggle for the mastery; and a reenforcement of troops
having been sent from France to aid the infant colony, it was decided, after mature deliberation,
that the most expeditious and effectual mode of ending the war, and establishing peace on a
permanent basis, was TO EXTERMINATE THE CARIBS.

These original "lords of the soil" were accordingly driven from their fastnesses, hunted by
parties of soldiers, shot down like wild beasts wherever found, until their number was reduced
from thousands to about one hundred. Bing cut off from the mountains by a military force, this
remnant of a powerful band fled to a promontory on the north part of the island which overlooked
the ocean, and, hard pressed by their civilized foes, more than half their number leaped over
the rocky precipice into the sea which dashed against its base. The others were massacred.

This promontory has ever since been known as "Morne des Sauteurs," or the "Hill of the Leapers."
I have stood upon the extreme point of this promontory, where I could look down some eighty
or a hundred feet into the raging abyss beneath, and listened to the mournful tradition as
detailed by one of the oldest inhabitants of the island. This is only ONE of the vast catalogue
of cruelties and wrongs that have been inflicted on the Indians by the whites in constant succession,
from the first settlement of the New World to the present time.

The French, who were long in possession of the island of Grenada, established on the plantations
French customs, the French language, and the Roman Catholic religion. When the island fell
into the hands of the English, although no organized plan was adopted to interfere with the
customs of the slaves, or change their language, the English failed in acquiring the attachment
of the negroes, who lamented the absence of their French masters, and sighed for their return.

Early in the year 1795, during the French revolution, a plan was conceived by some white men
and five mulattoes, in Guadaloupe, who were aware of the existence of this discontented feeling,
to create an insurrection among the slaves in Grenada, and take possession of the island. Emissaries
were sent among the plantations, who conferred with the principal negroes, and secretly made
arrangements for the work they contemplated. In the month of August, two or three sloops, each
containing thirty or forty men, with a supply of arms and ammunition, arrived in the harbor
of La Baye, on the eastern side of the island. The expedition was commanded by an active and
intelligent mulatto named Fedon, and landed in the night, captured the small fort which overlooked
the harbor, took possession of the town, murdered a number of the white inhabitants, and plundered
the houses and stores. Runners were employed to convey the news to the different plantations,
and the insurrection of the slaves was complete.

Some of the white men of the plantations received secret intelligence of the rising among the
blacks, and lost no time in fleeing to a place of safety; others remained unconscious of the
approach of danger, and were murdered. Deeds of cruelty were perpetrated on this occasion by
the negroes, a relation of which would chill the stoutest heart.

It unfortunately happened that when this insurrection broke out, the acting governor with several
members of the council, and some merchants and planters of great respectability, were on a
visit to the eastern part of the island. As soon as they heard of the attack on La Baye, and
the progress of the insurrection, they left the quarters where they had been hospitably entertained,
and, accompanied by their host and some other gentlemen, proceeded to the sea shore, and embarked
in a sloop, with the intention of proceeding to St. George, which was the seat of government,
and was strongly fortified and garrisoned.

As the sloop was passing the little village of Guayave, some negroes appeared on the shore,
bearing a flag of truce, and indicated by expressive gestures a wish to hold a conference with
the governor. This functionary, not aware of the dreadful atrocities that had been committed,
and hoping that some means might be agreed upon to heal the disturbances, imprudently ordered
the vessel to be anchored in the roadstead, and himself and a number of the most influential
of his friends went ashore in a boat, and were landed on the beach. A party of armed blacks,
who until that moment had been concealed, immediately surrounded them, pinioned them, and marched
them away. The boat was seized by the negroes, and a party pushed off for the purpose of boarding
the sloop, and securing the remainder of the white men; but they, having witnessed the capture
of the governor and his companions, suspected the object of this maneuver, cut the cable, and
with a fine breeze, distanced the boat which had started in pursuit, and proceeded to St. George
with the mournful news.

The rebel chief, Fedon, collected around him, as it were by a single tap of the drum, an army
of some thousands of blacks, and distributed among them a considerable number of fire-arms.
Others were armed with weapons hastily prepared; and the great body of the insurgents, being
desperate men, stimulated by the hope of freedom and the desire of vengeance, with leaders
of ability and some military skill, the insurrection assumed a formidable appearance.

Fedon took possession of Mount Quaqua, a high, steep, and somewhat bald mountain in the interior,
and there encamped with his army. The base of the mountain was cultivated, and furnished excellent
pasturage for the many cattle which were driven thither from the various plantations to furnish
subsistence for his army. This place he fortified, determined to make it his stronghold in
case of adversity; and he went vigorously to work in organizing and disciplining his army with
a view to make an attack on St. George before the government could receive reenforcements,
and thus get possession of the whole island.

The governor and his friends, and other prisoners, principally planters, having been strictly
confined for several days, and treated with many indignities, were conveyed under a guard to
the camp of the rebel chieftain. Fedon caused them to be brought before him, and after exulting
over their capture, and heaping upon them insults and abuse, ORDERED THEM TO BE SHOT. This
sentence was executed on the following day. Only one of the number escaped to tall the sad
tale. This was Mr. Bruce, a merchant residing at St. George, who had acted as attorney for
the Pearl plantations. When led out with others to be executed, a negro whispered in his ear,
"Massa, my capen tells me, shoot you! But I no shoot you! Only make b'live. You stand up straight
when I fire, you fall to ground, and scream, and twist, all same as if you be dead!"

The deception was successful. The negro, whose name was Quamina, and belonged to the Lower
Pearl estate, was stationed opposite to Bruce. The word was given. Bruce fell with the rest,
and imitated to admiration the agonies of a dying man; and Quamina, at the risk of his life,
succeeded in saving that of the white man. That night, he contrived to get him outside the
lines, conducted him on the road leading to St. George, and left him. Mr. Bruce, after much
fatigue and several hair-breadth escapes, reached the town, being the only one among the prisoners
carried to the camp who escaped from the clutches of the monster.

I may as well state here, that after the insurrection was quelled, Mr. Bruce manifested towards
his preserver a grateful spirit. He wished to give him his freedom, but Quamina, who was a
negro of consequence on the estate, refused to accept it. Quamina was elevated to the situation
of head-boiler; and Mr. Bruce every year made him a visit, gave him a sum of money, clothing,
and valuable presents for himself and wife.

The military forces in the island were not more than were needed to occupy the forts and defences
of St. George, where the white population had fled, with the little property they could take
with them on the breaking out of the rebellion. Parties of insurgents, commanded by chiefs
appointed by Fedon, who exercised absolute power, had the range of the rest of the island.
The rebels made a desperate attempt to capture St. George, but were repulsed with great loss.

Affairs remained in this condition for nearly a year, before any efficient measures were adopted
by the British authorities to regain possession. At length General Abercrombie, with a large
military power, landed, and, joined by the regular forces in St. George, and some companies
of militia, succeeded in driving the insurgents from the sea coast to the mountains. He then
invested Mount Quaqua, cut off all supplies from the army of Fedon, and compelled him to fight,
surrender, or starve. The insurgent chief, with some of the leaders of the insurrection, and
a portion of the rebels, attempted to cut their way through the English army, and some of them
succeeded, among whom was Fedon. He proceeded to the sea coast, embarked in an open boat with
a few companions, and was probably drowned, as he was never heard of afterwards.

The plantation negroes, generally, returned to the estates to which they had been attached,
and, with a few exceptions, were forgiven, and work on the plantations was resumed. A number
of the colored persons, slaves and freemen, who were chieftains under Fedon, or had signalized
themselves by extraordinary acts of cruelty, were arrested and hanged.

One of the most efficient officers among the rebels was named Jack Shadow. He was a free mulatto,
a shrewd, intelligent creole, and previous to the insurrection, had resided in the town of
Guayave, and exercised the trade of carpenter. With the assistance of his wife, a mulatto,
he also cultivated a garden, and contrived to gain a comfortable living. When the insurrection,
instigated by the French revolutionists, broke out in the eastern part of the island, Jack
hastened to join the insurgents, and was cordially received by Fedon, who intrusted him with
an important mission, which he executed with such adroitness as to gain the confidence of the
chief, who appointed him to a high command in the army. Jack was one of Fedon's most efficient
officers, and signalized himself by his bitter hatred to the whites, and the zeal with which
he abetted his chief in the horrid scenes of cruelty that were enacted.

When the insurrection was quelled, Jack Shadow, although wounded, made his escape, with some
others of the most obnoxious rebels, to the woods and mountains in the interior of the island.
They endeavored to conceal themselves from the pursuit of the whites, but in the course of
one or two years were all, with the exception of Jack, ferreted out and shot when apprehended,
or taken to jail, tried, and hanged.

Jack, however, remained in the mountains. A large reward was offered for him, dead or alive;
and parties of armed men often scoured the woods, hoping to find his lair and shoot or capture
the rebel chief. But though it was known he was hid in a certain part of the island, he eluded
all endeavors to arrest him for ten or twelve years, and might perhaps have died of old age,
had he not been betrayed by his wife.

It was subsequently ascertained that Jack had erected a hut by the side of a ledge of rocks,
which was almost inaccessible to a stranger; and this hut, being surrounded with bushes and
undergrowth, and covered with vines, could not be recognized as a habitation by any one unacquainted
with the fact. His wife, Marie, remained in her humble cottage in Guayave, and, it appeared
still cherished affection for her husband. He was visited in the wilderness by Marie at certain
times, and supplied with necessaries and whatever she thought might conduce to his comfort
in that wretched abode. At his urgent request, she also furnished him, occasionally, with a
JUG OF RUM, with which to cheer his spirits and solace his solitude. He gradually acquired
an insatiable fondness for spirituous drinks, and insisted on being supplied, even to the exclusion
of articles vastly more suitable to his condition.

The consequence of the indulgence of this habit was soon exhibited. He became gloomy, sullen,
and ferocious. He no longer treated his wife, to whom he was so much indebted, and the only
being with whom he associated, with his wonted kindness and affection, but, when maddened with
liquor, often abused her. Marie bore this for a long time with patience. She still sought his
hiding-place at times, and bore him the poisonous beverage, probably unconscious that she was
thus indirectly the cause of the changed conduct in her husband. He continued his ill treatment,
especially when under the influence of liquor, and after a time the affection of Marie for
her husband was extinguished. She began to regard him as the fierce outlaw and murderer, who
cherished no gentle affections, but took pleasure in abusing the woman who held his life in
her hands, and had labored hard and risked much to screen him from capture and cheer him in
his concealment. Her visits became more seldom, and the ill temper of her husband increased.

One night, Marie pursued her devious way to the mountains to furnish Jack with the accustomed
supplies. He snatched form her hand the liquor, and took a deep draught. The poison did its
work. He became excited, and quarreled with his wife; and, roused to fury by her reproaches,
struck her with his hand, seized her by the shoulder and thrust her from the hut, tumbling
her over the ledge. Marie rose, groaning with pain, being severely bruised. The cup of her
indignation, which had long been full, was now overflowing. She slowly returned to her home
in Guayave, brooding over schemes of revenge, and formed the determination to betray her husband
into the hands of justice. She called upon Dr. Duncan, a rich planter and a magistrate, and
offered to guide him to the spot where Jack Shadow, the daring rebel, was concealed.

Within a couple of hours after the magistrate received the welcome information, he was on his
way to the mountains, accompanied by Marie and a guard of soldiers. They entered the thicket
on the side of the mountain, where Jack Shadow had taken up his abode. They came to a precipitous
ledge of rocks. "Move gently, now," said Marie, in a low voice; "we are close upon his hut."

The soldiers could see nothing resembling a hut. With their muskets loaded, and bayonets fixed,
they with difficulty made their way through steep, rugged, and crooked passes, and, after a
toilsome march, stood by the side of Jack's habitation.

The sergeant was now quietly arranging his men in such a manner as to insure the captivity
or death of the outlaw, when one of the soldiers stumbled, and his musket struck the ground
with a ringing noise. Jack, who had just awakened from his drunken nap, heard the ominous sound.
He had no weapons, but relied on the security of his retreat and his activity and strength.
He cautiously opened the door, in front of which stood a soldier with his musket pointed towards
him. The sergeant cried, "Surrender, or you are a dead man!"

Jack made one last desperate struggle for life. He sprang down the ledge, turned aside with
one hand the bayonet which was thrust at his bosom, and felled the soldier with the other;
but ere he could clear the guard, his shoulder was transfixed by another bayonet, which disabled
him, and in a few minutes he was stretched at the feet of the soldiers, a wounded, pinioned
captive. Before the sun had set that afternoon he was securely lodged in the prison at Guayave,
heavily ironed, and the prison was guarded by a detachment of soldiers.

The trial of Jack Shadow soon came on before a bench of magistrates. His identity was proved;
also the conspicuous part he had taken in the insurrection, and the bloody acts which he had
committed. The outlaw was condemned to death. His deportment was sullen and dogged to the last.
He refused to see his wife, who, when too late, regretted the steps which, prompted by anger
and a short-lived desire for revenge, she had taken for his arrest. He was hanged on a gallows,
about a quarter of a mile outside the village of Guayave.

Chapter XXX. WEST INDIA LIFE

I remained on the Upper Pearl estate, and found much to interest an inquiring mind. Murray,
although there were some good points about him, was not considered trustworthy. In his cups
he was quarrelsome and as choleric as a Welshman; and a fondness for liquor was his besetting
sin. He was an excellent accountant and an efficient clerk, but could hardly be relied on when
a clear head and cool judgment were required.

A short time before I became acquainted with Murray, he had quarreled at a dinner party with
a Mr. Reed, the manager of a coffee plantation. The lie was exchanged, a blow was struck; a
challenge was given and accepted on the spot. The next morning the parties met, with their
seconds, firmly bent upon shooting each other. There was no flinching on the part of the principals;
no desire evinced to give or receive an apology. The seconds, however, were made of milder
stuff; and neither of them being Irishmen, thought they would be justified in rendering the
duel a bloodless one, and transforming a grave matter into a harmless joke. They accordingly
loaded the pistols with powder only, keeping the bullets in their pockets; probably taking
the hint from the well-blazoned proceedings in the duel fought at Chalk farm, a few years before,
between Jeffries and Moore,

     "When Little's leadless pistol met the eye,
     While Bow Street myrmidons stood laughing by."

The word was given, and both parties fired. No harm was done; but apologies were out of the
question, and "another shot" was loudly and peremptorily called for, and the distance, eight
paces was shortened to six. The farce was again repeated, when Murray, wondering at the bloodless
result, espied a smile on the features of his second, which did not seem in keeping with the
gravity of the occasion. His suspicions were aroused; and the seconds, on being charged with
duplicity, acknowledged the fact, adding that it would be worse than folly to shoot each other,
and suggesting that they should shake hands, take a good breakfast together, and, in a Christian
spirit, banish all enmity from their hearts.

This advice, so wise in itself, was not taken in good part by either of the principals. They
were indignant at having been imposed upon, and made a laughing-stock to the community. Murray
could not control his temper, but threw his pistol at the head of his second, cutting him badly
in the face, and knocking him over; he chased the second of his antagonist off the field, and
then offered his hand to the man whom he had twice attempted to shoot, which in a kind spirit
was heartily grasped; and the two principals in the duel, who, five minutes before, eagerly
thirsted for each other's blood, rode off together sworn friends and brothers, and were afterwards
as great cronies as the Irish Bard and the Scotch reviewer.

Mr. Orr, the manager of the Upper Pearl, who left the estate, bowed down by disease, on the
evening of my arrival, had a narrow escape from death. When he recovered, after a severe illness
of several weeks, he refused to resume his situation, declaring he had got enough of the Pearls
to last him his lifetime.

Mr. Church rode over from his residence every morning, and gave instructions, which I carried
out to the best of my ability. The reputation of the Pearl estates for fevers was such, it
was difficult to find a respectable person who would take the station of manager, or, if he
accepted the situation, relying on the strength of his constitution, he was not wont to occupy
it long. One of that description was engaged after Orr's resignation was received, but he was
driven off in a few weeks by an attack of fever and ague, which nearly shook him to atoms.
Another, of more doubtful character, was subsequently engaged, but he was found by the attorney
tipsy before eleven o'clock in the forenoon. Had it been in the afternoon, it might have been
excused; but to get drunk in the morning was an unpardonable offence. In vain he pleaded that
he had taken only a few drops to neutralize the effects of the malaria; he was discharged.

After a few months' residence on this plantation, breathing by night and by day the foul and
noxious miasma from the swamps, and just as I began to flatter myself that my constitution
would weather the storm, I experienced an attack of headache, chills, and fever. By dint of
resolution and nerve, which will accomplish much, I succeeded in throwing it off, being determined
not to succumb through imagination or fear. A few days afterwards the attack was renewed with
greater violence, and I was compelled to admit its reality, and acknowledge the supremacy of
remittent fever. Mr. Church manifested much interest in my behalf. He caused a skillful physician
to attend me, and promptly provided me with every thing the occasion required, excepting a
salubrious atmosphere; and on being told that this was indispensable to my recovery, he generously
caused me to be transported on a litter to "Bel-Air," the beautiful and healthy villa in which
he resided. Here I was provided with a comfortable apartment, and received the kindest attention
from Mrs. Church. After a severe struggle the fever left me in a weak and emaciated condition,
and weeks elapsed before I was permitted to resume my duties of the estate.

My wardrobe, although it had been replenished by Bohun, in a style which I thought unnecessarily
liberal was still far from approaching what, by persons of simple tastes, would be called genteel.
As I was now liable to be thrown into the company of the WELL-DRESSED visitors to Bel-Air,
it was thought by Mr. Church perhaps at the suggestion of his wife that some improvement in
my external appearance might be desirable. Accordingly, one day, on returning from a journey
to St. George, he brought me, greatly to my astonishment, a dress coat, of bottle-green hue,
much too large, which he had purchased ready-made; a pair of stockinet pantaloons, too tight
for even my slim shanks, and a flashy-looking vest, which, for aught I know, may have been
made of the stuff called "thunder and lightning;" so that, when rigged out in my genteel habiliments,
I must have looked not unlike Moses, in the "Vicar of Wakefield," going to the fair, but far
more ridiculous!

I cared less about the effect I might produce in my unaccustomed finery than the expense of
such luxuries, which I knew I could not afford, and which would inevitably subject me to much
inconvenience. My salary, I found on inquiry, was a nominal one,  barely sufficient to furnish
me with ordinary comforts.  I had already incurred a serious debt in the purchase of a saddle
and bridle and other articles which I could not dispense with; and although I fully believed
Mr. Thomas would never call upon me to refund his disbursements on my account in St. George,
I knew human nature too well to suppose that Mr. Church would not deduct from my salary the
price of those genteel articles of dress, which were of no more use to me than a marlinspike
to a dandy. Indeed, had I indulged in such unreasonable hopes, I should have been undeceived
when a bill for sundries from a trader came to hand, of an amount far exceeding my expectations,
with a polite request that I would transmit the money at the earliest convenience!

There was no help; I had put my hand to the plough, and must go forward. I thus found myself
enchained to the island for at least twelve months. Indeed, a longer period than that must
elapse before I could expect, by the closest economy, to pay off the debts I had incurred.
I now, too late, regretted that I had listened to the representations of Bohun, and allowed
him to manifest his GRATITUDE for my services, the consequences of which served to embarrass
me, and place me in a position which I did not covet; for which I was not calculated by habit
or inclination, but from which I could see no means of escaping.

I returned to the Pearl estate and resumed my avocations. Months passed away; and although
an occasional chill, followed by fever, reminded me that I was continually breathing an unhealthy
atmosphere, I felt a sanguine hope that I should not again be affected by diseases incident
to the climate, and that I had already qualified myself for the honorary degree which was referred
to by my friend Murray. My hopes were fallacious. I was again attacked by a remittent fever
of an obstinate character. I was again conveyed to Bel-Air. The doctor was again summoned,
and he had a difficult task in restoring me to health. But he protested against my return to
the Pearl estate, declaring that another attack would place me beyond the reach of medical
assistance.

It chanced that Mr. Coxall, a rich merchant of St. George, who had a lumber yard and depot
of stores in Greenville, was in want of a clerk to look after his affairs in that place, and
in consequence of Mr. Church's recommendation he gave me the situation. My duties were pleasant;
and I often visited the plantations in the neighborhood, where I acquired a number of friends.
My emoluments, however, were inconsiderable; I was in debt, and the amount of my pecuniary
obligations was not lessened by the repeated visits of a popular physician during my sickness.

During this time I had not heard a word from Mr. Thomas, or Bohun, his clerk. I supposed they
had forgotten me; but I did those gentlemen injustice. I had hardly been a year in the island
when I received a letter from Mr. Thomas, enclosing a bill in the handwriting of Bohun, of
every article with which I had been furnished in St. George, not omitting my board at two dollars
and a half a day, which Bohun so roundly swore should be reduced at least two thirds. The sum
total of the bill amounted to more than one hundred dollars, an enormous sum in my then straitened
circumstances; and the letter contained an intimation that, having been a year in the island,
and in regular employment, it was expected that I was able and willing to settle the accompanying
bill!

Although I entertained faint hopes of being able at some future day to reimburse Mr. Thomas
for his expenses on my account, I never expected that he would make out this bill, including
even the most trifling item, or hold me responsible for the unpardonable blunder of Bohun in
relation to my board, and subject me to the mortification of a dun. It appeared, however, that
he considered all obligations, on his part, discharged, when an unenviable situation was procured
for me on a plantation, where the chances were nine out of ten that I should find my grave
within three months! I made a brief reply to this letter, in which I expressed my feelings
without reserve; assured him he need not trouble himself further about his money; that if I
lived he should receive the full amount, principal and interest, as soon as I could earn it.

This unexpected demand on my resources troubled me greatly. It had the effect to postpone,
almost indefinitely, the time when I should leave Grenada, and return to the occupation I preferred,
that of a mariner. I could not quit the island honorably or openly without paying my debts;
and I could not for a moment entertain the idea of sneaking out of it in a clandestine manner.
I was the only citizen of the United States in the island, and I persuaded myself that the
honor and reputation of my country were identified, to a certain extent, with my conduct while
exercising a humble employment in that secluded portion of the globe. It would be well if others,
exercising duties of a more important nature, would recollect this fact; and when their consciences
or sense of propriety are not sufficient to restrain them from unworthy acts, let them summon
patriotism to their aid, and remember that the disgrace is not confined to themselves, but
is shared by the land which gave them birth. By acting on this principle, our country would
be more honored abroad than it now is.

After I left the Pearl estate I enjoyed excellent health, with the exception of an occasional
attack of intermittent fever, a malady which, although distressing and debilitating, is seldom
regarded as alarming. Those only, who were liberally dosed some forty years ago with the powder
of Peruvian bark, the sovereign remedy for fever and ague, can duly estimate the value of the
services rendered to suffering humanity by the discovery of a mode of administering it in a
concentrated form, that of QUININE.

Although some estates were regarded as healthy while others were notoriously the reverse, on
no part of the island could persons be secure from those fatal diseases, most dreaded in a
tropical climate, such as dysentery, and malignant or yellow fever. It was really startling
to notice the sudden deaths which sometimes took place even among those who considered themselves
acclimated, and were habitually in the enjoyment of excellent health. This may have been in
part, owing to the irregular mode of living in a climate where the humanizing influence of
female society was but little known. Dinner parties among the planters were frequent, where
the most tempting liquors were produced, and excesses on such occasions, when fun and frolic
were rife, were considered not only excusable but laudable.

I had been two years in the island, when I received an official notification that I was appointed
one of the constables or civil officers of the district in which I resided, and was expected
to qualify myself forthwith to perform my duties. Being well known as a citizen of the United
States, I was greatly surprised at this event; and believing that I could not legally discharge
the duties of any office of trust, honor, or emolument, however humble, under the British government,
I hastened off at once to Mr. Lumsden, an old, and highly respectable planter, who resided
on his own estate, and had acted as a magistrate for many years.

"Mr. Lumsden," said I, exhibiting the document, "I have been appointed a constable for this
district."

"Well, what of that? The appointment is a good one. I recommended you myself."

"I am obliged to you for your good opinion," said I, "but you know very well that I am a citizen
of the united States; have never taken the oath of allegiance to the British government, and
never intend to; consequently I am not eligible."

"Pooh, pooh! Nonsense! That makes not a farthing's difference. You will do well enough."

"And more than that," I continued, "I am only nineteen years of age; that alone is sufficient
to incapacitate me."

"Young man," said the magistrate, with all the solemnity and wisdom of a Dogberry, "whether
you are a Yankee or a Calmuck, whether your are sixty years old or sixteen, it matters not.
You have been appointed a constable for this district, AND A CONSTABLE YOU SHALL BE. So no
more frivolous excuses. If you do not prepare yourself to act in that capacity when called
upon I will cause you to be reported and fined."

There was no more to be said; the argument relating to the fine was unanswerable; and I caused
myself to be qualified forthwith. The duties were not arduous. The only official duty required
of me, during my term of office, was to summon a coroner's jury, on one occasion, to sit on
the body of a runaway slave, who was stabbed by a watchman while committing depredations on
some "negro gardens" in the night time.

Mr. Coxall finally gave up his establishment in Greenville, and I was obliged to look elsewhere
for employment. A newspaper was published at St. George, owned and edited by an Englishman,
who had been a non-commissioned officer in the regiment which was disbanded in the island a
few years before. I had then, even at that early age, some indefinite hankering after newspaper
life, and having picked up a crude mass of knowledge, incongruous and undigested, perhaps,
from the many books I had devoured, I flattered myself that I could render good service as
assistant editor of the St. George Chronicle. I accordingly offered my services to the proprietor,
but found him less liberal in his opinions than the worthy sons of Scotia with whom I had been
intimately associating. His prejudices against the Yankees were unconquerable. He did not even
reply to my letter, but stated to a friend of mine that he must be very hard pushed before
he would take a YANKEE into his office to assist in printing and editing an English newspaper.

I again turned my attention to the planting business. A vacancy having occurred on the Hermitage
estate, owing to the sudden death, by yellow fever, of a very promising young man from Aberdeen,
who had been in the island only a few months, I succeeded, through the kind exertions of Mr.
Church, in obtaining the situation.

The Hermitage was one of the finest plantations in Grenada. It was pleasantly situated on elevated
ground, a few miles from the sea shore, and was the residence of Mr. Houston, a gentleman of
great respectability, who was attorney for the estate, and also for the plantation adjoining,
called Belmont. Some years previously the Hermitage had been the residence of the owner of
these estates, an Englishman named Bailey. He had spared no expense in stocking the grounds
with fruits of various kinds, had planted bread-fruit and bread-nut trees, which, besides proving
ornamental, furnished nutritive food for the slaves. Mr. Houston found, however, that the fruit
orchards required more labor and care to keep them in good condition than could be profitably
spared from other duties; and the beautiful and umbrageous bread-fruit and bread-nut trees
shaded some portions of the fertile land capable of producing good sugar cane. The axe was,
therefore, freely used, and, one after another, nearly all the trees which produced this excellent
fruit were cut down. Other fruit trees, as the orange, the guava, pomegranate, avocado pear,
golden apple, water lemon, soursop, etc. grow spontaneously on almost every plantation, and
furnish an abundance and a variety of refreshing, nutritious food, at different seasons. Plantains,
peas, cassava, kalliloo, yams, and several other kinds of esculent vegetables, some of which
bear a close resemblance to the potato in every thing excepting the form, are raised in abundance
with very little labor. The calabash tree is also found growing wild on every estate. It resembles
an apple tree of moderate dimensions, and bears calabashes of every size, from those which
contain several gallons to those which hold only half a pint. These calabashes are of great
value on a plantation, being used as vessels for all purposes and occasions except for cooking.

It is hardly necessary to say that my debt to Mr. Thomas was liquidated as soon as I could
obtain the means, even by anticipating my salary; and I eagerly looked forward to the time
when, by exercising the strictest economy, I should be able to quit a place where, notwithstanding
many things which were unpleasant, I had found valuable friends and enjoyed many comforts,
and had been treated by all with whom I came in contact with confidence and kindness. During
my stay, my feelings were never hurt by ungenerous allusions to my native country. Whatever
unpleasant associations were produced, from time to time, among the planters by the passing
events of the war, they were restrained by a feeling of delicacy, which I could duly appreciate,
from indulging in offensive remarks in my hearing. On one occasion their forbearance, politeness,
and respect for myself were put to a severe test.

The war between Great Britain and the United states deprived the inhabitants of the British
West India colonies of many comforts and luxuries which they enjoyed when free intercourse
was maintained between the United States and the different ports in the English islands. During
the war, all the stores and provisions, lumber, and other important materials required on the
plantations, were conveyed thither from ports in Great Britain in ships sailing under convoy
of men-of-war. The arrival of these ships, which took place at certain seasons, when the produce
was ready for shipping, was anxiously expected, as they were freighted not only with useful
articles for the estates, but also contained generous lots of hams, porter, cheese, wines,
and other delicacies and condiments, ordered by the planters themselves for their especial
benefit and enjoyment. It was a day of jubilee and rejoicing when a ship known to be freighted
with these "good things" and "creature comforts" arrived safely in port.

At the proper season, in 1814, the good ship Corunna, of Bristol, was expected at Greenville.
This ship was an old trader, and the captain had been intrusted with many commissions, which,
as he was an honest and faithful man, it was not doubted he would execute satisfactorily. Most
of the planters in that part of the island were looking out anxiously every day for the arrival
of the Corunna. Their private stores had been long exhausted, and they longed to have them
replenished. The ship was an unreasonable time on her passage.

It was Sunday afternoon. I was dining with Mr. Stevenson, the manager of the Tivoli estate,
in company with several planters. The house was situated on an elevated spot, and commanded
a fine view of the sea, extending nearly from the Grenadines to LaBaye, the port of Greenville.
It was distant from the sea shore not more than a couple of miles. Suddenly, on looking out
of the front windows of the dining hall, a large ship was seen under full sail, coming with
a fair wind from the direction of the Grenadines and steering towards LaBaye.

"That is the Corunna," shouted one of the gentlemen present. "Hurrah!"

"Not the Corunna," remarked Mr. Stevenson. "The Corunna is not so good looking and is of a
different model. The West India fleet, however, must have arrived at Barbadoes, and the Corunna
will soon be along."

At that moment another ship appeared, carrying a cloud of canvas, coming round the point. This
vessel was not the Corunna, and kept close in with the land, running also for LaBaye. A shade
of disappointment rested on the features of some of the planters; but all continued to gaze
eagerly in the direction of the sea, hoping that the long expected ship, bearing, not the Golden
Fleece from Colchis, but treasures from England, of far greater value in the estimation of
their owners, would next make her appearance. Their expectations were realized. Another ship
came into view, with every sail set which would draw; royals, skysails, and studding sails,
from the truck to the deck, and the British ensign was waving at her peak.

"There comes the Corunna, at last!" exclaimed Mr. Stevenson.

"The Corunna! The Corunna!" was the responsive cry.

"I declare," said Mr. McInnis, the manager of the Carriere estate, "I feel greatly relieved.
I began to think the ship had been picked up by some Yankee privateer, and my Stilton cheese
and 'brown stout' gone in another direction."

"I was suspicious, myself, that some accident of that kind had happened," replied Mr. Stevenson;
"but she is safe enough now, and will be at anchor in an hour or so. Therefore, let us fill
our glasses, and drink the health of her successful commander."

The glasses were filled; but before their contents were quaffed, the company were startled
by the loud report of a cannon, which came booming across the land. At this moment another
vessel, which had fired the gun, was seen coming round the point, following closely in the
wake of the Corunna.

This vessel was of a model widely different from those which first came along. She was a long,
low, black hermaphrodite brig, with tall, raking masts, and a row of ports, evidently intended
for use rather than ornament. Every plank in her hull, every rope at her mast-head, and every
cloth of her canvas looked as if they meant MISCHIEF. Her national flag, which bore the stars
and stripes, was not necessary to proclaim the presence of one of the much dreaded American
privateers. The company looked as if the angel of destruction was hovering over the island.

"A privateer! An American privateer!" exclaimed Stevenson. "The Corunna is nabbed after all."

"Not so!" said Mr. McCrimmon of Belmont. "Not so! The Corunna will show fight. Her captain
is a brave man, and will not strike his flag without good reason. Look there, he fires a broadside!
Huzza!"

The Corunna now changed her course, keeping away before the wind, and running directly for
the land. She discharged three or four guns from her starboard ports, which were replied to
by the "long Tom" of the privateer. The captain of the ship, apparently, considered it useless
to fight, and made an attempt to run the ship ashore; but his object being perceived by the
Yankee, he also kept off, and sailing much faster than the Englishman, placed his brig between
the ship and the beach, hammering away in the mean time with his "long Tom." The Corunna fired
no shot in return, and in a few minutes hauled down her flag in token of surrender.

It subsequently appeared that the three ships had left England and came to Barbadoes with the
large outward bound West India fleet; but being well armed, and stoutly manned, had concluded
not to wait for convoy to Grenada, and the risk being small, agreed to keep together, stand
by each other, and combine their forces if menaced by an enemy. They passed the Grenadines,
came in sight of their port, and were exulting in having accomplished the passage in safety,
when the Yankee privateer brig Chasseur, of Baltimore, Captain Boyle, shot out from behind
the promontory of Sauteurs and gave chase. A harbor was in sight ahead and the enemy astern.
It is perhaps not remarkable that under these circumstances discretion outweighed valor; that
the two headmost vessels FORGOT THE AGREEMENT, and, adopting the memorable order which was
acted on by the "Grand Army" after the burning of Moscow, "SAUVE QUI PEUT," ensconced themselves,
as quickly as possible, in the snug harbor of Greenville. The captain of the Corunna was a
brave man, as had been truly said. He was anxious to fight, but his men, after one ineffective
broadside, left the guns. He then attempted to run his ship ashore, but was foiled by the superior
sailing of the enemy. The Corunna had a miscellaneous cargo of considerable value, and a successful
attempt was made to carry her into an American port. She reached Wilmington in safety, and
the North Carolina cotton planters doubtless ate and drank with a keen relish the good things
which were intended for the sugar planters of Grenada.

It may be easily imagined, that the news of a treaty of peace having been signed at Ghent,
was received with great and sincere delight by the inhabitants of the English islands. Far
from their native homes, and in a great measure free from political excitement, they manifested
no great interest in the results of the war, indulging only a vague desire and expectation
that British arms would prevail. The war had caused them great inconvenience, and deprived
them of many comforts; and it was difficult to say whether my friends or myself derived the
most gratification from the fact that peace was established between the two countries.

Time passed on. I had nearly cleared myself from debt, and had even fixed the period when I
should be able to leave Grenada and engage in other pursuits. My friends combated the resolution
I had taken, assuring me of success, even to the extent of my wishes, if I would remain on
the island. Indeed, I was more than half promised the management of a plantation near Guayave,
called Grosse Point, by Mr. McQueen, the Receiver General. Fearing I might be tempted to remain,
by offers which I should be unable to withstand, I was anxious to hasten the period of my departure.

About this time a bill, providing for a registry of the slaves in every British colony, was
passed by the Parliament of Great Britain, with a view to put a more effectual barrier to the
African slave trade. This bill was not understood by the blacks. They were aware that some
law intended for their benefit, perhaps favoring their emancipation, had been enacted, and
not experiencing any advantageous results, after waiting patiently some weeks they began to
consult together, to murmur, and exhibit signs of discontent, which caused great alarm. On
several estates the field laborers in a body, including the head drivers and other magnates,
left their homes and went to St. George. They demanded to be put in possession of those indulgences
and rights to which they supposed they were entitled by the law which had just been passed.

The planters, recollecting the bloody scenes that had been enacted, years before, at the beginning
of the insurrection headed by Fedon, were greatly alarmed. Military organizations were formed
in different districts, and a regular night patrol, and a well-devised system of espionage,
were kept up for several weeks. The governor of Grenada and the Grenadines, at this period,
was Major General Riall, who had distinguished himself while commanding the British army on
the Canada frontiers, and was wounded and taken prisoner at the battle of Niagara. Acting with
judgment, firmness, and discretion, he succeeded in pacifying those bodies of slaves who sought
him, and explained the true character of the act. They slowly returned to the plantations and
resumed their labors; but were evidently dissatisfied, and more than half convinced that even
the governor was deceiving them.

To add to the excitement, a rumor was spread abroad, and obtained belief, that a number of
aliens had arrived in the island, with the intention of stirring up another insurrection; and
a sort of panic prevailed among the whites. The governor issued a proclamation, declaring that
every free person who was not a native citizen of Great Britain, or who had not taken the oath
of allegiance, must appear forthwith before the executive authorities of St. George, and report
himself and state his object in being on the island.

I felt myself included in the list of aliens, and in spite of the remonstrances of friends,
who insisted that the proclamation did not apply to me, I determined to comply with its directions,
and go immediately to St. George. Accompanied by a gentleman who was connected with the government,
and to whom I had a letter of introduction, I called upon his excellency. The governor was
a thick-set, ruddy-faced man, with a decidedly military air, of simple habits and courteous
manners. He received me with great politeness. On being informed that I was an American, he
waived all desire for an explanation in regard to the cause of my residence in the island;
and further remarked, that should it at any time be in his power to render me service, it would
give him pleasure to do it.

When peace was established between the two countries it was expected the ports in the English
islands would be thrown open for trade, as before the war. In this expectation the planters
were disappointed. In order to protect the trade in the British American provinces, the importation
of produce in American bottoms was prohibited. Consequently there was no direct communication
between English ports in the West Indies and ports in the United States. Our vessels landed
and sold their cargoes in St. Thomas, St. Bartholomew, or some other free port, where they
were shipped in English bottoms, and thence conveyed to the English islands.

There being no opportunity to go directly to the United States from Grenada, I sought the means
of proceeding to some other port, where I should be likely to fall in with an American vessel.
I called on Mr. Budge, a merchant of St. George, with whom I had some acquaintance, to make
inquiries. He informed me he was on the point of chartering a small vessel in which to proceed
to St. Pierre in Martinico, should sail in the course of a few weeks, and would cheerfully
give me a passage to that port.

I returned to the interior of the island in fine spirits, and commenced making the necessary
arrangements for my departure. In due time, having received information from Mr. Budge that
his sloop would sail on a certain day, I took leave of my numerous friends, bade farewell to
the plantations; to the lonely glens and deep gorges in the mountains, which for me, had many
charms, and took the "Grand Etang" route for the capital. I could not bid adieu to my kind
Scotch friends without emotion. Several of them expressed an intention to visit the United
States before the lapse of many years, perhaps to settle there for life, and promised to look
me up. But I have never seen them since. With the sight of a Scotchman, however, is associated
many pleasing recollections; and a Scotch accent has ever sounded grateful in my ear since
I left the shores of Grenada.

During my residence in Grenada my duties were neither arduous nor difficult. Had I complied
with the advice of friends and remained, I might have succeeded as a planter, and led for a
number of years a lazy, monotonous, vegetative kind of life. Nevertheless, my stay was not
unproductive of advantages. I found much to interest and occupy an inquiring mind; and my situation
gave me an opportunity to gratify a thirst for information, to gain an intimate knowledge of
tropical life, usages, and productions which has often since proved of signal service. I was
brought into communication with people of different nations, different characters, and different
modes of thinking; of different politics, philosophy, and religion; all of which has a tendency
to eradicate or weaken early prejudices, liberalize opinions, and inculcate charitable views
of human nature. While such a relation with people of other countries can never diminish the
feeling of patriotism in a well-balanced mind, it will lead a persons to discover, acknowledge,
and respect, in other communities and other nations, much that is good and worthy of commendation.

After paying my debts and supplying a few pressing wants I found remaining in my pocket fifty
Spanish dollars. I had emerged from a state of poverty and dependence. I was rich, having the
means, without much doubt, of procuring a passage from Martinico to some port in the United States.

Chapter XXXI. SORROWFUL SCENES

It was about the middle of September in the year 1816 that I embarked with Mr. Budge in a little
sloop bound to St. Lucia and Martinico, after having resided in Grenada nearly four years.
We had a few other passengers, one of whom was a French gentleman named Chambord, who had fought
a duel with an Englishman in St. Lucia a few months before. This duel grew out of a fierce
dispute in relation to the battle of Waterloo, and the comparative merit, in a military point
of view, of Napoleon and Wellington. The Frenchman, being an adroit swordsman, got the best
of the argument by running his antagonist through the body, and leaving him senseless, and
apparently lifeless, on the field. He made his escape to Grenada. Having learned that the champion
of Wellington was in a fair way to recover from his wound, he was now on his return to his home.

We tarried but a short time at St. Lucia, merely lying off and on at the mouth of the port
of Castries, or Carenage, which is one of the most beautiful and safe harbors in that part
of the world; the entrance being so narrow that two ships cannot pass through it abreast; but
inside, the extent of the harbor and depth of water are sufficient to furnish good anchorage
and shelter from hurricanes for a large fleet of ships of the largest class.

On arriving at St. Pierre I found a fearful hurricane had raged in that quarter only a week
or ten days before. The wind, blowing from the eastward directly into the open roadstead with
irresistible fury, had driven every vessel in port ashore on the beach. The ship Cato, of Portsmouth,
New Hampshire, having all her cargo discharged, and presenting a large surface of hull to the
wind and the waves, was found, after the tempest had subsided, high and dry in one of the streets,
in a condition which precluded the possibility of getting her into the water, and was broken
up. Others were launched on "ways" constructed for the purpose; while some sustained but little
injury, and were easily got afloat. One English brig, built of the red cedar of Bermuda, a
material greatly in favor at that time on account of its remarkable resistance to DECAY, was
crushed like an egg-shell the moment it struck the shore, and the fragments were strown along
the beach.

At the time I arrived at St. Pierre the yellow fever was prevailing to an alarming extent among
the inhabitants. The same epidemic prevailed in Point Petre, Guadaloupe, and the numerous immigrants
from France, in some cases whole families, who sought those shores with the hope of improving
their condition, were cut off by this terrible disease soon after their arrival. Some cases
of yellow fever appeared among the shipping in St. Pierre, and nearly every one proved fatal,
showing the malignant type of the disease. Great alarm was manifested lest the epidemic should
spread among the vessels, and sweep off whole crews, and I subsequently learned that these
apprehensions were realized.

I engaged lodgings on shore, and was there an eye witness to the ravages of this plague of
the West Indies. Young and healthy men, full of hope and gayety, with rich prospects in the
future, were visited by this grim messenger soon after they set their feet on those shores;
and few, very few, recovered. Death was doing a mighty business at Martinico at that time;
and during my brief stay I listened to many a thrilling tale of hopes blighted, ties of affection
sundered, and sorrows awakened by the remorseless action of the "King of Terrors." The strong
man was cut down while boasting of his strength; and youth, beauty, or worth furnished no protection
from the attack of this West India pestilence.

After my long residence in Grenada I had no fear of yellow fever in Martinico; and in several
cases at my boarding house I was able to render valuable assistance. I was now anxious to get
temporary employment of some kind, or procure a passage to the United States. I was every day
getting nearer the bottom of my purse; and I trembled at the idea of finding myself penniless
in the town of St. Pierre. I could hardly hope to meet with the sympathy and kindness from
the Frenchmen of Martinico that I found in Grenada among the natives of Scotland.

Owing to the shipwrecks, caused by the hurricane, there was no want of seamen; and I could
not even get an opportunity to work my passage to an American port before the mast. I had been
so long in the West Indies that I had lost the distinguishing marks of a Yankee. And my broad
accent, my swarthy complexion, my unseamanlike costume, adapted to the climate, all seemed
to contradict my statement that I was an American sailor.

At Martinico I fell in with an Englishman, Captain William Parker, who had resided in the islands
for many years, and was thoroughly acquainted with the trade in that part of the globe. He
was then making preparations to engage in a sort of wholesale smuggling business, and had obtained
possession, by hook or by crook, of two registers of American vessels. One was a BONA FIDE
register of a privateer which had been captured during the war, and the other a forgery neatly
executed by an artist in Martinico, having the signatures and seals duly arranged and perfected,
but leaving blank the description of the vessel.

With these registers, valuable documents, in his estimation, having cost him no trifling sum,
it was his wish to proceed to New York, and with the aid of some unscrupulous capitalist, purchase
an English schooner, answering nearly to the description in the register of the privateer;
or, failing in that, procure an English vessel of any kind suitable, and fill up the blanks
with a description of the same in the other American register. Then with two captains, one
English and one American, each acting as mate alternately, and with a crew who could be confided
in, HE PROPOSED TO CARRY ON A DIRECT TRADE WITH THE ENGLISH ISLANDS, securing all the advantages,
in the way of port charges and duties, of an American vessel in an American port and an English
vessel in an English port! A few voyages successfully performed on this plan, he plausibly
urged, would be productive of immense profit to all concerned.

Parker was desirous that I would embark with him in this enterprise, and act as the nominal
American commander. But I had an instinctive repugnance to proceedings of such an underhand,
unlawful character. This of itself would have been enough to lead me to reject his proposition;
and furthermore I had no confidence in the man, or his ability to carry his project into operation.
I thanked Parker for his friendly offer, and the COMPLIMENT it conveyed, but declined to enter
into any engagement of the kind. Whether he succeeded in carrying his project into effect I
never learned; but the same plan was successfully put into execution by an enterprising rogue
about the same time, who undertook to run a vessel between Baltimore and Barbadoes, carrying
out flour and bringing back coffee and sugar. He performed two trips successfully, but on the
third got into trouble. One of the crew, who had been unadvisedly punished for insubordination,
gave information to the authorities in Barbadoes, which put a period, for a time at least,
to his enterprising pursuits.

A few days before I landed in St. Pierre, the brig Betsey, Captain Blackler, arrived in the
harbor from Marseilles. A large portion of her cargo was discharged, and Captain Blackler concluded
to send the brig with the remaining portion, consisting of wine im casks, to New Orleans, while
he remained behind to transact important business for the owner of the brig, William Gray,
of Salem. Accordingly the mate, Mr. Adams, an intelligent and highly deserving young man, belonging
to Marblehead, was placed in charge, and the mate of the unfortunate ship Cato, which forsook
her proper element to explore the streets of St. Pierre, and could not get back, was engaged
as mate of the Betsey.

 I applied to Captain Blackler for a passage to New Orleans.  The
brig was fully manned, with six stout, able-bodied seamen before
the mast, and cook, mate, and captain, nine in all. Captain Blackler
demanded forty dollars for a passage in the cabin; by no means an
exorbitant charge. Nevertheless this was a poser, as after paying for
my board, I had only twenty dollars remaining. This matter, however, was
satisfactorily settled by a COMPROMISE,  a happy way of getting rid of a
difficulty.  I proposed to advance twenty dollars before quitting
Martinico, and give an obligation for twenty more when the brig should
arrive at New Orleans; and he agreed to the proposition. But HOW I
should raise twenty dollars on reaching New Orleans, was a question I
could not answer, and did not like to consider. I strove hard to
convince myself I should never be called upon for payment, or if called
upon, that fortune would favor me by furnishing, in some way, the means.

Captain Blackler was a gentleman much respected and esteemed. He was a good specimen of an
American shipmaster. When we got under way he came on board, apparently in good health and
spirits, to bid us farewell. I shook hands with him as he stepped over the side. He gave some
final instructions to Mr. Adams, who had assumed the command of the Betsey. They mutually wished
each other continued health and prosperity, expressed a hope to meet before long in Marblehead,
and parted NEVER TO MEET AGAIN! Before another week had passed they were both summoned before
their God. It was afterwards ascertained that Captain Blackler was attacked by yellow fever
a few days after the brig left Martinico, and was quickly added to the numerous band of victims
to that disease.

The brig Betsey was about two hundred and twenty tons burden; a clump, dull-sailing craft,
of rather venerable appearance, with no pretensions to youth or beauty, having braved the dangers
of the seas for thirty years; nevertheless she was now apparently as sound, safe, and tight
as any vessel that crossed the ocean. Captain Adams was a worthy man, of an amiable character,
who had been educated to his business; and the mate, Mr. Ricker, had been commander of a ship,
and was strongly recommended as an able and faithful officer. The crew were Americans, resolute-looking,
powerful fellows, in robust health. There had been no sickness on board during the voyage;
and all of them, including the captain and mate, were rejoiced to leave the island of Martinico.
As the mountains faded in the distance they fancied they had left the yellow fever far behind,
and congratulated each other on their good fortune.

Our route, as will be seen by examining a chart or a map, was a remarkably interesting one.
It extended through the Caribbean Sea, where the trade winds blow unceasingly from the eastward,
in a direction south of some of the most beautiful and picturesque islands in the world, as
Porto Rico, St. Domingo, and Cuba, and ranged along in sight of Jamaica and the Caymans, then
rounded Cape Antonio, once the notorious haunt of pirates, and entered the Gulf of Mexico.
Leaving the harbor of St. Pierre under such auspices, I anticipated a delightful trip and being
a passenger, with no duties to perform, and no responsibility resting on my shoulders, I was
prepared to enjoy the POETRY of a seafaring life.

 The night following our departure there was a gentle breeze from
the eastward, the sea was smooth, and everything in the atmosphere,
on the ocean, or in the vessel gave promise of a pleasant passage. I
remained on deck that night until twelve o'clock, in conversation with
Captain Adams. He seemed in a particularly pleasant and communicative
mood; spoke of his past life, which had been but little clouded with
misfortune, and indulged in the most cheerful anticipations with regard
to the future.

The next day I learned that one of the seamen, named James Smith, belonging to Wiscasset, in
Maine, was unable, from illness, to do his duty. I found that Smith was not a favorite with
the crew, being a lazy fellow, who would act the part of an "old soldier" when an opportunity
offered. As he did not seem very sick, and some thought he was feigning illness to avoid work,
no alarm was excited in consequence.

There was a man on board the Betsey whose name was Gaskell; a tall, stalwart fellow, belonging
to Greenbush, New York. He showed in his words and actions that he was unprincipled, a thorough
reprobate, whose soul had been case-hardened in crime. This man ridiculed the illness of Smith;
tried to rouse him from his berth in the half-deck; declared that he was "shamming Abraham,"
and threatened him with a rope's end unless he gave over skulking. Gaskell spoke of the mortality
among the Frenchmen in Martinico, and this furnished him with an inexhaustible source of amusement.
Indeed, human suffering, lingering death by shipwreck or disease, always moved him to mirth
and laughter. And yet he was not deficient in intellect and education; but had used them for
evil purposes. He was coarse, sensual, intemperate, and terribly profane. He boldly avowed
a disbelief in a God, and sneered at the idea of punishment for crime in the future. He loved
to talk of the yellow fever; he set that fearful disease at defiance, and said he never enjoyed
himself so gloriously as he had done the year previously at Savannah, when the yellow fever
was sweeping off the crews of the shipping in that port by hundreds, and he found employment
as a carpenter, and cleared ten dollars a day by making coffins for the "Yankee" sailors. I
felt from the outset that this Gaskell was a bad man, and a further knowledge of him confirmed
my impression and increased my disgust.

In the course of the day I visited the half-deck, at the request of Captain Adams, to examine
the condition of Smith. I found him in a feverish state, languid, his spirits much depressed,
and with a slight headache. At the time I had no suspicion that he was visited with yellow
fever, the disease appeared in so mild a form. Some medicine was given him, and it was expected
that in a day or so he would recover his health.

The next morning, being the third day after leaving Martinico, I was awakened soon after daybreak
by a succession of groans which came from the captain's stateroom. I entered the room, and
was greatly alarmed at finding Captain Adams laboring under a severe attack of illness. He
was seized with pains in the head and back, accompanied with scorching fever. His pulsations
were strong, quick, and irregular. He said he must have caught a violent cold the night before,
by remaining on deck without his coat or hat. I did not contradict him; but I had seen persons
in a similar condition, and I knew he was suffering from yellow fever in its most alarming form.

All the medical skill I possessed was put in requisition; but the captain grew worse, and before
night he was aware of the true character of the disease, and seemed to feel there was no chance
for his recovery. I strove to minister consolation and inspire him with hope, but in vain.
He acknowledged that life had charms of the most attractive description; fortune had favored
him beyond his expectations; he had relations and friends whom he dearly loved; and there was
one bright being in his native town to whom he had plighted his vows of affection, and to whom
he hoped to have been united for life if Providence had willed his return. But he was resigned
to the will of the Almighty. He did not even murmur at the fate which he knew awaited him.
He prayed to his God to pardon the sins he had committed, and looked forward with hope to a
glorious immortality.

The breeze had been light and the sea remarkably smooth since we left St. Pierre; and the brig,
steering to the north-west, had made slow progress. On the morning after the captain was taken
sick we expected to be in sight of Porto Rico; and Captain Adams asked Mr. Ricker, the mate,
if any land was in sight. The mate thoughtlessly replied, "'The Dead Man's Chest' can just
be seen off deck." This was the English name of a small island, or cluster of rocks, some five
or six miles south of Porto Rico, resembling in appearance a coffin, and called, in Spanish,
"Moxa del Muerta."

Captain Adams remarked, in a soliloquizing strain, "The Dead Man's Chest? Already in sight?
Well, it will soon be wanted; I am ready."

The sufferings of this excellent man were intense. The pains in his head and back kept increasing;
yet his mind was tranquil, and he retained command of his mental faculties until the last moment
of his life. During his illness he expressed kindness for others, and made suggestions to the
mate about sailing the brig and carrying on the work. As he grew weaker, he gave explicit directions
to Mr. Ricker in regard to the duties which would devolve upon him at his death, and intrusted
me with a solemn message to his dearest friends, which I afterwards faithfully delivered.

On the third day after the fever commenced the BLACK VOMIT set in. This is generally regarded
as a fatal symptom, being almost always the precursor of death. But the fortitude of the captain
never for a moment forsook him. He was sustained in that dread hour by a guiltless conscience
and a steadfast, deep-rooted, religious principle.

A few hours after this alarming prognostic made its appearance, he died, while I was bathing
his forehead; and a prayer hung upon his lips, even as the spirit left the earthly tabernacle.
He died as became a Christian; and his features in death were tranquil as those of a sleeping
infant.

His body was soon afterwards brought on deck, where the whole ship's company were assembled.
The funeral rites were simple, but solemn and impressive; and far away from the friends of
his youth, with no heart-stricken relatives to gather around the coffin, and form a mournful
procession to the grave, and hallow the burial spot with the tears of affection, the mortal
remains of our worthy commander were launched into the deep. They were committed, not to the
silent tomb, but to that vast burial place, that "God's Acre" of almost illimitable extent,
where deep caves, and recesses invisible to mortal eye, have served for ages as the last resting
place of myriads of human beings, cut off untimely, without warning note of preparation, from
the hopes and disappointments, the joys and sorrows, of this world; where, without headstone
or monument, inscription or epitaph, to mark the place, with only the rushing winds to mourn
their departure, and the murmuring waves to chant their requiem,

     "After life's fitful fever, they sleep well."

It is remarkable that in no part of the world, in any age, has the sea been selected as a burial
place for the dead. Indeed, the idea of being drowned at sea, or dying on shipboard to be intombed
in the fathomless ocean, is so abhorrent to many individuals that it is with fear and trembling
they trust themselves on the water. It was a belief of the ancients, that to insure happiness
hereafter, the dead body of a human being must be covered with earth; otherwise the departed
spirit would never enter the Elysian Fields, but wander restless on the nether banks of Styx,
in full view of delights and joys which it could never expect to realize.

Mr. Ricker, the mate, now took command of the brig. This man possessed a warm and affectionate
heart, and was deeply moved by the death of the captain. He wept aloud when the interment took
place, and sought to alleviate his grief by copious draughts of spirituous liquors. He wept
and drank himself to sleep while reclining on a hen-coop. In a few hours he awoke, and wept
again; then told the cook to bring the brandy bottle, which soon acted as an opiate, and banished
his sorrows. He pursued this course, crying and drinking for more than a week; and during the
greater part of this time, while I was witnessing scenes of sadness and death enough to chill
the stoutest heart, he incapacitated himself, by intoxication, from performing his duties as
commander of the ill-fated vessel.

Smith was still lingering under the attack of a disease which we now knew to be yellow fever.
He was gradually growing worse. Others of the crew were also visited by this dreadful pestilence,
and the deck of the brig resembled one of the fever wards of a hospital. The groans of the
poor fellows were enough, one would think, to create sympathy in the coldest bosom. But they
had no effect upon Gaskell, excepting to excite derision; and when he spoke to his sick or
dying shipmates with a ribald jest on his lips, and a scornful grin on his features, I longed
to fell him to the deck. I rebuked him for his want of feeling, and suggested that, proud as
he was of his strength and immunity from sickness, he might, notwithstanding, become an object
of sympathy to his shipmates, and need their assistance. The answer I received was a boisterous
laugh, as if the idea was too absurd to be entertained.

Many years have passed since these events occurred, but even now I cannot recur to them without
a feeling of sadness. And no one, not familiar with such scenes, can form an idea of the distress
which a mortal sickness produces on board a ship at sea. The captain had died, and the mate,
who should have taken his place, was constantly in a state of beastly intoxication. Three of
the crew were struggling with yellow fever, and, to add to our troubles, Gaskell made his way
into the hold, and broached a cask of wine; and those who were not sick followed the example
of the mate, and got drunk, and drowned in vociferous shouts and songs the groans of their
suffering shipmates. Under these circumstances, I had no alternative but to take on myself
the responsibility of navigating and sailing the vessel. And while proceeding along the fruitful
shores of St. Domingo, and the picturesque coast of Jamaica, I passed whole nights on deck,
engaged in tending the sick, trimming the sails, and steering the brig. It was truly fortunate
that the wind continued light and the weather pleasant.

Smith, who was the first man taken sick, did not recover. His illness gradually increased;
for several days his mind wandered, but he was not troublesome, and died on the tenth day after
we left St. Pierre. On the day of the captain's death, a young man, belonging to Connecticut,
was seized with a fever, and died five days afterwards in a state of delirium. His case required
constant care and attention, as he made more than one attempt to throw himself overboard, in
order, as he believed, to embrace his parents and friends in his own native village. Two others
were taken alarmingly ill, but after suffering severely for several days gradually recovered.
The cook, a stout black fellow, inured to warm climates, rendered me great assistance in taking
care of the sick. But on the morning on which we beheld the mountains of Jamaica he also was
visited by yellow fever. The symptoms were alarming, and there seemed no prospect of his recovery;
but on the third day of his sickness, AND AFTER THE BLACK VOMIT HAD COMMENCED, and while I
sat watching by his berth, expecting that in a few minutes he would breathe his last, he seemed
to revive, and I put some rice-water to his lips. He swallowed a small quantity; the terrible
forerunner of a speedy dissolution disappeared, and from that moment his strength gradually
increased, the fever left him, and before we reached New Orleans he had recovered.

While the cook was still dangerously ill, one morning early, as we were slowly sailing along
towards the Grand Cayman, Gaskell came crawling up the steps leading to the half-deck, and
tottered along towards me. I was appalled at the change which a single night had made in his
appearance. The defiant, rollicking ruffian no longer stood before me; the sneer was no longer
on his countenance, his eyes no longer sparkled with mischief, and his language was not interlarded
with disgusting profanity. His eyes were glassy, his cheeks ghastly pale, and a cold sweat,
produced by FEAR, stood on his forehead. The workings of suffering and terror were imprinted
on his features, and he looked as if twenty years had been added to his life in one short night.

And he had cause for alarm; the yellow fever had fastened upon him with a vice-like grasp,
and he felt it in his inmost soul. The man was a coward, after all. He thought himself secure
from the scourge, and put on a mask of defiance. He now knew that he had deceived himself,
and all his daring vanished. HE WAS AFRAID OF DEATH; AND THE DREADFUL CONVICTION WAS FORCED
UPON HIM THAT HIS DYING HOUR WAS AT HAND.

In tremulous accents, Gaskell described the symptoms of the disease. The shooting pains in
his head, neck, and shoulders were insufferable, and he entreated me to do something, any thing,
to relieve the pain, and restore him to health. He urged me to bleed him, which I undertook,
and opened a vein in each arm, but the blood would not flow; the vital current seemed to be
congealed by fear. He then begged me to bathe his back with camphor and opodeldoc, and although
I knew the operation would produce no effect, I consented to his wishes, and for more than
an hour rubbed his back as he desired, and bathed his head with vinegar and lime juice.

But the disease could not be removed. It seized upon his vitals, and he rapidly grew worse.
His pains were great, but his mental agonies were greater. For worlds I would not suffer what
that man suffered while rushing into the fearful embraces of death. His mind was clear and
unclouded, while madness would have been mercy. His life had been loose and depraved. He had
been guilty of many crimes, and in the day of death the stings of conscience pierced him to
the soul. His evil deeds came back to him in that hour; they were stamped on his heart as with
a red-hot iron. I tried to console him, but in vain. He would not listen when I spoke of death,
and fiercely motioned me away when I attempted to read aloud a chapter from the Bible. He said
but little; but what he did say were words of bitterness and despair. He declared, with an
awful oath, that he would not die, and struggled fiercely for life to the last. I never shall
forget the wild and ghastly countenance and distorted features of that dying man, who, only
a few days before, while in the full flush of health, declared, with a diabolical grin, that
he feared neither God nor man.

The fever had now run its race, but our ship's company was greatly reduced in number and in
strength. The captain and three of the seamen had been committed to the waves, and others had
not fully recovered from the effects of the fever. Mr. Ricker was the only person on board,
with the exception of myself, who had entirely escaped. Whether drunkenness acted, in his case,
as a preventive, I will not undertake to say; neither will I advise any one to try the hazardous
experiment.

We were now in sight of the Isle of Pines, fourteen days having elapsed since we sailed from
Martinico, when I observed indications of one of those severe gales not unusual in the Gulf
of Mexico and vicinity, and known at "northers." Light-handed as we were, and without an efficient
head, I was aware that our situation was a critical one. I then felt justified in doing what
I should have done sooner; I threw overboard every drop of spirit I could find, and then applied
myself to rouse Mr. 'Ricker from his drunken inactivity; I explained to him my apprehensions
of a gale of wind, and the necessity for making preparation for the coming tempest. This brought
him to his senses; and after grumbling somewhat at the loss of his liquor, and taking a deep
draught of water, he entered with energy on the sphere of his duties.

Ricker was a man of large stature and great physical strength. He was also a thorough seaman,
and, when not stupefied with liquor, was an active, energetic man. By his powerful aid, and
under his direction, the brig was soon put in a condition to withstand the heavy gale from
the north, which soon came upon us, and completely ventilated the steerage and cabin, which
had so long been the depository of a pestilential atmosphere. The "norther" lasted two days,
the greater part of which time we were lying to, under a close-reefed main-topsail; and when
the gale abated, we found ourselves further north than at its commencement, and not far from
Cape St. Antonio, the western extremity of Cuba, a fact which illustrates in a striking manner,
the force of the current which at certain times sets north, like a sluice-way, between Cuba
and Yucatan, into the Gulf of Mexico, and is the origin of the Gulf Stream.

We entered the Gulf of Mexico, and with a fair breeze sailed for "the Balize." In a few days
we struck soundings near the mouth of the Mississippi, and soon fell in with the turbid waters
that are swept far out to sea by the strength of the current of that mighty river. We steered
for a lighthouse, constructed of granite, on the eastern extremity of a point, and which, resting
on a quagmire, was hardly completed before it assumed an attitude resembling the leaning tower
of Pisa, and in six months afterwards it took a horizontal position. It is hardly necessary
to say it was never lighted. We took a pilot and entered the river by the Balize or "South-east
Pass," which was the deepest channel at that time, and navigable only for vessels drawing not
more than fifteen feet of water, and, by dint of hard labor, steam towboats being then unknown,
worked our way to the city of New Orleans.

Chapter XXXII. NEW ORLEANS IN 1817

I have already stated that the owner of the Brig Betsey was Mr. Gray, of Salem, a merchant
of great enterprise, probity, and wealth. He soon afterwards removed to Boston, and was known
throughout this country and the maritime cities of Europe by the name of "Billy Gray." His
agent in New Orleans was Nathaniel Ware. Mr. Ricker explained to him the mournful events which
had taken place on the passage from the West Indies, and Mr. Ware exhibited deep sympathy while
listening to the tale of suffering. Ricker, prompted by a feeling of gratitude which showed
the goodness of his heart, gave me full credit for the services I had rendered during the passage;
explained the nature of my connection with the brig, and placed in the hands of Mr. Ware the
written obligation I had given Captain Blackler, and which was found among the papers of Captain
Adams. This document, which had caused me much anxiety, Mr. Ware returned, along with the twenty
dollars I had previously paid towards my passage. He also thanked me for the assistance I had
rendered Mr. Ricker, and added something more substantial, in the shape of twenty-five dollars,
"as a trifling compensation," he said, "for my services," although, for obvious reasons, he
was not aware of their full extent. He suggested that, if I designed to follow the sea, I could
remain in the brig on pay, and that the command of the vessel would be given to Mr. Ricker.
He further said he would represent my conduct in a favorable light to Mr. Gray, which he did,
and years afterwards it was remembered to my advantage. Mr. Ricker himself urged me to remain,
and occupy the situation of mate. It was in vain I assured him that my practical knowledge
of seamanship was limited, and what little I once knew I had forgotten during my residence
in the West Indies. He said he knew me better than I knew myself; he would excuse all imperfections,
as he had seamanship enough for both, and to spare. I was not convinced; I had also some misgivings
in regard to the weakness which he had exhibited, amid danger and death, on the passage through
the Caribbean Sea; and I feared he had contracted a habit which would render any man unfit
for a situation involving great responsibilities, not only in relation to property but also
of life. Nevertheless, I gladly embraced the opportunity to remain on board for a time. The
brig would probably be several weeks in port, and my future course could be guided by circumstances.

The moral condition of New Orleans at this period the year 1816-1817 was deplorable. For vice
and immorality, it doubtless bore away the palm from every city in Christendom or heathen lands.
Gaming houses, and vile, disgusting receptacles of vice and infamy, were thickly scattered
over every part of the city. Midnight brawls and robberies were frequent; and hard-fought fisticuff
encounters, sometimes between two individuals, and sometimes between two squads of half a dozen
on-a-side, were taking place on the levee, or in its neighborhood, almost every hour in the day.

The population of the city was of the most heterogeneous character. Frenchman and Spaniards,
of all complexions, native-born citizens, formed the basis. To them were added a thin sprinkling
of Yankees, mostly enterprising business men; and an influx of refugees, adventurers, smugglers,
pirates, gamblers, and desperate scoundrels from all parts of the world. The large number of
ships waiting for freight, and constantly arriving, furnished a formidable body of sailors,
many of them old men-of-war's men, who, keeping themselves well primed with whiskey, were always
ready for a set-to, a riot, or a row. And if we add to these the boatmen of the Mississippi,
not only those who came down the river in flatboats, but that numerous class, now extinct,
of hardy, powerful, reckless, quarrelsome fellows who managed the KEELBOATS, the only craft
that could stem the current of the Mississippi before the introduction of steamboat navigation,
it will be easily imagined that vice struggled hard to exercise full and uncontrolled dominion
over the capital of Louisiana.

Ineffectual efforts were made to repress tumult and establish order. The police regulations
were in a wretched condition. The police officers were more inclined to look after the blacks
than the whites; and the calaboose was filled every night with unfortunate darkies, who in
a humble way were imitating the vices of the more enlightened CASTE. When symptoms of a serious
riot appeared, the military were called out. On more than one occasion, the sailors on one
side to the number of two or three hundred, and the Kentucky and Tennessee boatmen of equal
or superior numbers on the other, were drawn up in battle array, and commenced a desperate
contest with hard knuckles, bludgeons, and missiles of every description, revolvers and bowie-knives
had not at that time been introduced into such MELEES, when the military made their appearance,
and the belligerents were dispersed.

Fighting on the levee became an established custom, and was sometimes resorted to as an exciting
pastime. If a couple of "old salts" quarrelled under the stimulus of a glass of grog, instead
of bandying words, and pouring into each other a broadside of vulgar epithets, they quietly
adjourned to the levee and took it out in hard knocks, and after having fought with desperation,
and pummelled each other out of all resemblance to human beings, they would go on board their
ship and cheerfully attend to their duties.

One day I watched with no little interest a pitched battle between a wooden-legged sailor and
a French stevedore. The sailor, although he was wanting in one of his limbs, was said to be
a valuable seaman one who would never shrink from work of any kind. He would go aloft in a
gale or in a calm, and lend a hand at reefing or furling as promptly as any man in the ship.
His wooden leg was so constructed, with iron machinery, at the extremity, that he could stand
on a ratline or a hawse without difficulty. The stevedore, who was a powerful fellow, expected
to make short work of the cripple, taking it for granted that Jack could not stand firm on
his pins; and indeed, almost at the beginning of the combat, the man with the timber toe was
capsized. His opponent, flushed with success, and disregarding the rules of honorable warfare,
determined to give Jack a drubbing while he lay sprawling on his back. But as he approached
him with mischievous intent, his fist clinched and his eyes flashing fire and fury, Jack watched
his opportunity, and gave him two or three kicks with his iron-shod wooden leg in swift succession.
They were so strongly and judiciously planted that the astonished Frenchman was compelled to
measure HIS length on the ground, from which, to is great pain and mortification, he was unable
to rise, and wooden-leg hobbled off with the palm of victory.

The most savage and revolting contest which I witnessed was a "rough and tumble" fight between
two Mississippi boatmen. One was a young man, of slight frame, and rather prepossessing appearance;
the other was a burly, broad-shouldered ruffian from Tennessee. The quarrel originated in a
gaming house, over a pack of cards, and the parties adjourned to the street to settle the matter
in regular style. But few words were interchanged. They grasped each other firmly by the waist,
and after a severe struggle for the mastery, both fell heavily to the earth, when the real
battle commenced. In a close, but not loving embrace, they rolled over and over again. No blows
were given; they seemed to be clutching at each other's faces, but their motions were so quick,
violent, and spasmodic that I could not see how their hands were occupied. The struggle was
soon over; the Kentuckian released himself from the relaxed grasp of his prostrate antagonist,
and sprang to his feet. He looked around on the spectators with a smile of triumph, then entered
the miniature Pandemonium, apparently without having received injury. His vanquished opponent
was assisted to his feet. He was groaning, quivering in every limb, and manifesting symptoms
of insufferable agony. I pressed forward, eager to ascertain what injury he had received in
this strangely conducted combat, when, to my great horror, I saw the blood streaming from his
cheeks, and shuddered as I witnessed other and unmistakable proofs of a successful attempt
at gouging.

Nor were these pugnacious propensities, which seemed epidemical, confined to the lowest classes
in society. They were manifested by those who moved in a higher sphere, and who, looking with
contempt on vulgar fisticuffs and gouging, settled their difficulties satisfactorily according
to the established rules of the DUELLO with sword, pistol, or rifle. Hostile meetings on the
levee, below the city, where the population was sparse, and no impertinent interruptions could
be apprehended, were frequent. Indeed, the intelligence, some pleasant morning, that a duel
had just been fought, and one of the parties lamed in the sword arm, or scientifically run
through the body with a small sword, or bored through the cranium with a pistol-bullet, excited
little attention or remark, excepting among the friends and relatives of the parties.

One duel, however, was fought while I was in New Orleans, which, being attended with some unusual
circumstances, caused considerable talk. The principals were a French gentleman and a lieutenant
in the navy of the United States. A dispute occurred in a billiard room; the Frenchman used
some insolent and irritating language, and, instead of being soundly drubbed on the spot, was
challenged by the naval officer. The challenged party selected the small sword as the medium
of satisfaction, a weapon in the use of which he was well skilled. The American officer was
remonstrated with by his friends on the folly of fighting a Frenchman, a noted duellist, with
his favorite weapon, the small sword; it was rushing on certain death. But the challenge had
been given, accepted, and the weapons agreed on; there could be no change in the arrangement;
and, indeed, the Yankee, who was a fine, determined-looking young fellow, showed no disposition
to "back out."

"I may fall in battle," said he, "by the sword or shot of a brave Englishman, but never by
a thrust from a spit in the hands of a spindle-shanked Frenchman! Dismiss all fears on my account;
I will give this 'PARLEZ-VOUS FRANCAIS' a lesson in fighting he little dreams of."

They met on the duelling ground at the appointed hour. There were more spectators present than
usual on such occasions. The Frenchman affected to treat the matter with indifference, and
made some frivolous remarks which excited the laughter of his countrymen. Indeed, the chances
seemed to be a hundred to one against the lieutenant, who could handle with terrible effect
a cutlass or a boarding-pike, but was almost a stranger to a weapon, to excel in the use of
which, a man must be as loose in the joints as a posture maker, and as light in the heels as
a dancing master. And yet there was something in the cool, resolute, business-like bearing
of the Yankee which inspired his friends with some confidence in his success; and they watched
the proceedings under an intense degree of excitement.

The parties took their places, assumed the proper attitudes, and crossed swords. The Frenchman
grinned with anticipated triumph. It was clear that, confident in his skill, and richly endowed
with feline propensities, he intended to amuse himself and the bystanders for a few minutes,
by playing with his intended victim. His antagonist, however, stood firm, until the Frenchman,
with a nimble caper, changed his ground, when the officer bounded forward, got within the guard
of his opponent, and with a thrust, the force of which nothing could withstand, sent his sword,
apparently, through the body of the Frenchman to the hilt!

The poor fellow was hurled to the ground by the violence of the shock, and supposed to be mortally
wounded. That he was not KILLED outright was certain, for, owing to surprise and grief at this
unlooked-for result, the fear of death, or extreme physical pain, he discharged a volley of
screams that could be heard a mile off, writhed and twisted his body into all sorts of shapes,
and manufactured, gratuitously, a continuous and ever-changing series of grimaces, for which
the younger Grimaldi would have pawned his cap and bawble.

The wails and contortions of the wounded man were such, that it was some time before his friends
and a surgeon who was present could examine his condition, which appeared deplorable enough.
Indeed, an examination seemed hardly necessary, unless for the purpose of gratifying curiosity,
as the wretched man, amid his groans and screams, kept repeating, with much emphasis and pathos,
the terrible words, "JE SUIS ASSASSINE! JE SUIS ASSASSINE!" (I am killed! I am killed!) But
as his voice grew stronger, instead of weaker, at every repetition of the phrase, doubts were
entertained of his veracity; and a surgical inspection showed beyond cavil, that he was laboring
under a hallucination, and asseverating with needless energy what was not strictly true.

That he was not killed on the spot, however, impaled on a rapier as an unscrupulous entomologist
would impale a beetle, could hardly be regarded as the fault of his opponent. The thrust was
directed to the place where the centre of the body of the Frenchman should have been, BUT IT
WAS NOT THERE. The sword passed only through the muscles of the abdomen, from the right side
to the left, perforating his body, it is true, and grazing, but not injuring, the larger intestines.
The wound in itself was not a dangerous one, although the disturbance among the bundle of integuments
threw the discomfited duellist into almost mortal agony, and led him to believe he was a dead
man, while experiencing in his own person a liberal share of the pain he was so ready to inflict
on others.

Chapter XXXIII. A VOYAGE TO HAVRE

The Betsey remained some weeks at the levee at New Orleans before Mr. Ware could fix upon a
voyage. In the mean time Ricker remained on board as master of the brig; and for several days
after our arrival in port his habits were correct and his conduct without reproach. Gradually,
however, he strayed from the paths of sobriety. He was of a social turn; frank, honest cheerful,
and liberal-minded. He possessed other valuable traits of character; was a good sailor and
a skilful navigator, but he could not resist the fascinations of the intoxicating cup.

Intemperance disqualifies a man from employments where the exercise of cool judgment, and clear,
undisturbed reasoning faculties are required; and no person addicted to habits of intemperance
should be intrusted with the command of a ship, where property to a large amount and lives
of incalculable value, are, as it were, given into his hands. If records of disasters could
be faithfully (here the page is torn and cannot be read) and unfolded, we should have an appalling
list of easy (torn page) quarrels, mutinies, and shipwrecks which have (torn page) caused by
intemperance on the part of the (torn page.)

Mr. Ware, the commercial agent of Mr. Gray (torn page) the brig had seen Ricker more than once
intoxicated which roused his suspicions that all was not (torn page) unlucky afternoon he found
him in a helpless condition, which convinced him that Mr. Ricker, notwithstanding his excellent
qualities, was not a (torn page) could be safely given the control of (torn page) the high seas.

Ricker was mortified at losing, through (torn page) the command of the brig. He (torn page)
however, of harsh or unjust treatment on the part of Mr. Ware; and consented to remain as mate,
promising to refrain entirely from the use of spirituous liquors. The command was given to
an officer in the United States navy, Lieutenant Rapp; and in this way I was ousted from the
berth which Ricker was so desirous I should fill. There was no longer a home for me in the
cabin of the Betsey, and I shipped as an ordinary seaman on board the brig Casket, of New York,
Captain Mott, bound on a voyage to Havre.

The Casket was a large and handsome brig, and besides the captain, mate, boatswain, and cook,
carried six hands before the mast. The chief mate was a hard-looking customer, somewhat advanced
in years, rough in his manners, and profane and coarse in his language. But the captain was
a fine-looking man, about thirty years old, rather dignified and reserved. His appearance spoke
volumes in his favor, and the crew who joined the ship in New Orleans rejoiced in this opportunity
of shipping in a fine vessel, with a whole-souled captain, and bound on a European voyage!

Before we reached the Gulf of Mexico, however, the (torn page) sang a different tune. They
found the mate more (torn page) unreasonable, and every way disagreeable, if (torn page) than
he looked; and the captain evidently re-- (torn page) sailor as a piece of machinery to be
wound up (torn page) for the performance of certain duties, but (torn page) human attributes.
Whether a heart beat (torn page) bosom, and his head was furnished with (torn page) Mott knew
not, neither did he care. The (torn page) of any one of the crew were never (torn page) If
a man was sick and incapacitated (torn page) was told, with an oath, to "bear a hand (torn
page) not be skulking in the forecastle;" and (torn page) his duties, he was regaled with stern
(torn page) language, and sent upon missions at times, and under circumstances, which showed
that Captain Mott thought a few sailors, more or less, in the world, were of no manner of consequence.

In former days every Yankee shipmaster was not a live, wide-awake, pushing, driving, web-footed
Jehu, who disregarded fogs, was reckless of collisions with ships, fishing vessels, or icebergs,
and cared little whether he strained the ship and damaged cargo, provided he made a short passage,
as is the case in this enlightened age when "Young America" is in the ascendant. An "old fogy"
was occasionally met with, who, being well paid for his services by the month, prided himself
more upon the STRENGTH of his ship's sailing than her rapidity. This appears from the following
scene which once took place on board a Boston ship:

Captain Jarvis was lying in his berth, dreaming of a long passage and plenty of money at the
end of it, when he was awakened by the unwonted noise of water under the counter, giving rise
to the suspicion that the officer of the watch was carrying more sail than was expedient. He
jumped out of his berth, rushed up the steps, popped his head out of the companion-way, and
sharply exclaimed,

"Mr. Popkins, heave the log."

Mr. Popkins: Ay ay, sir!

Captain Jarvis: How fast does the old ship go, Mr. Popkins?

Mr. Popkins: Nine knots, sir!

Captain Jarvis: Nine knots! Julius Caesar! I am astonished. Take in some of that canvas immediately,
Mr. Popkins. I can't afford to sail so fast as nine knots.

Mr. Popkins: Ay, ay, sir.

The studding sails were hauled in, and the main royal and fore and mizzen top-gallant sails furled.

Captain Jarvis: How fast does she go now, Mr. Popkins?

Mr. Popkins (after heaving the log.) Seven knots and a half, sir!

Captain Jarvis: Too fast, sir much too fast! Take in more sail. Why, Mr. Popkins, we shall
be at the end of our voyage before we know it, at this rate.

Mr. Popkins, with the men of the larboard watch, went to work, and in a few minutes the ship
was running along quietly under her three topsails, jib, and spanker. Very well very well indeed,
Mr. Popkins. Always bear in mind that we are not paid by "the run," or the voyage; and six
knots is very fair sailing between man and man. It is better to sail strong than to sail fast.
Don't let me catch you running off at the rate of nine knots again. Stick to six and you will
do, otherwise there will be no wages coming to us when we get home. Do you hear, Mr. Popkins?

Mr. Popkins, gruffly, (he had a sprinkling of Young America in his composition.) Ay, ay, sir!

Although Captain Mott was sometimes deficient in judgment, and on more than one occasion narrowly
escaped losing overboard some of the crew, or wrecking the brig, he was, nevertheless, an excellent
seaman, managed his vessel with skill, and navigated her with unusual correctness. Not being
paid by the month but by primage on the freight, he was a veritable "driver," and lost no opportunity
to urge his vessel ahead, even at the risk of starting a butt, springing a spar, or losing
a man. Being always willing to work, on hand in any emergency, and never shrinking from danger,
I was often a sufferer from his go-ahead instincts, as well as from his arbitrary mandates
and unfeeling disposition. And were it not that there is,

     "A sweet little cherub which sits up aloft,
     And looks out for the life of poor Jack,"

I should have become food for fishes long before we reached the longitude of the Western Islands.

One afternoon, before we left the Gulf Stream, a thunder squall arose from the south-east.
It came towards us rapidly, as if borne on the wings of the Genius of Storms. Its whole aspect
was "wicked" in the extreme, and every man on board knew that prudence required sail to be
taken in and preparations made for the reception of the tornado. The captain was on deck, but
the boatswain unfortunately remarked, "That squall looks like an ugly customer, sir, and it
will soon be necessary to shorten sail."

This remark, made in the most respectful manner, roused the captain's ire. He chose to consider
it an unauthorized and impertinent interference on the part of the petty officer; the squall,
as well as the boatswain, was denounced in language not often heard in a drawing room, and
both were consigned to a hotter place than the craters of Mauna Loa.

The clouds spread over the zenith, the thunder rattled as if it would rend the welkin, the
wind began to blow in short-lived puffs, as if making preparations for a regular "blowout;"
the men were stationed at the halliards, fore and aft, waiting with intense anxiety the result,
and the captain was pacing the quarter-deck, looking as savage as a hungry bull-dog, and determined
to show that he was not to be frightened by squibs, but would carry sail in spite of the squall.

At that time we were under courses, topsails, top-gallant-sails, and a main-royal; our fore-royal
mast was snugly stowed alongside the long-boat on deck, where, at that tempestuous season,
the main one should also have been. The order at length was given, "Clew up the main-royal!
Let a hand go aloft and furl it."

The sail was clewed up, and in a few seconds I was clinging to the sliding gunter royal mast,
and gathering in the canvas, while the captain was denouncing me for a lubber, for not accomplishing
impossibilities. The lightning was flashing around ne, and the peals of thunder were deafening;
the rain was beginning to fall, and the wind to blow with alarming violence, before I could
spill the sail and pass the gaskets. Suddenly I heard a tumultuous noise as of the roar of
angry breakers. I cast my eye to windward, and beheld the whole surface of the sea covered
with a sheet of snow-white foam. At the same moment I heard the voice of the captain, who was
now really alarmed, in a tone which could be heard above the roar of the hurricane, shouting,
with frantic energy, "Hard up your helm! Hard up, I say. Let go all the halliards, fore and
aft! Haul up the mainsail! Lower away that try-sail! Clew down the top-gallant sails! Why don't
you put the helm hard up?"

I was sensible of the danger of my situation, standing on "the hounds" of the top-gallant mast,
and almost within reach of the truck, while the brig, with all sail set, was exposed to the
fury of this terrible thunder gust. Obeying an irresistible impulse to take care of "number
one," I slid down the topmast cross-trees, caught hold of the weather top-gallant backstay,
and came on deck much faster than I went aloft! My feet had hardly touched the deck when a
gust struck the brig with a fury which I have seldom seen surpassed. It rushed upon us like
an avalanche on a hamlet in an Alpine valley. Halliards, sheets, and tacks were let go, but
the yards were still braced up, and the sails could not be clewed down. Before the vessel could
get before the wind her lee side was buried in the water. The conviction seized every mind
that a capsize was inevitable, and there was a general rush towards the weather gunwale, and
a desperate clutching at the shrouds. At this critical moment the main-topmast snapped off
like a pipe stem, just above the cap, and carried with it the fore-top-gallant mast. The brig
righted, fell off before the wind, scudded like a duck, dragging the broken spars, and her
sails torn to ribbons; and a cold shudder crept over me when I thought of the appalling danger
from which by sliding down the backstay, I had so narrowly escaped.

When we struck soundings off the English Channel, the word was given to the boatswain to bend
the cables and get the anchors over the bows. The wind was blowing hard from the northward,
with violent squalls and a short head sea, and Captain Mott showed no disposition to reduce
the canvas in order to lighten our labors, but carried sail and drove the vessel as if he was
running from a pirate. The brig frequently plunged her knight-heads under water, deluging every
man on the forecastle with sheets of salt water. In the mean time the captain, and also the
mate, dry-shod on the quarter-deck, grinned, and winked at each other, at witnessing our involuntary
ablutions, with the mercury at the freezing point, while subjected to this severe course of
hydropathic treatment, and doing work which, under ordinary circumstances, could have been
accomplished in a few hours.

Reefing a topsail in a gale is an evolution simple in itself; and when the sail is placed by
the skill of the officer of the deck in a proper condition, the work aloft can be accomplished
in five minutes, even by a bungling crew. But Captain Mott seemed to take pleasure in placing
obstacles in the way of the ready performance of any important duty, and held the crew accountable
for any extraordinary delay. Thus in reefing topsails, the men were sometimes half an hour
on the yard, endeavoring in vain to do a work which his own obstinacy or ignorance rendered
impracticable, and he, all the while, cursing and swearing at the crew for their inefficiency,
in a style which would have done credit to the leader of a press-gang.

The men, generally, were good seamen, and able and willing to do their work, and with proper
treatment would have proved first rate sailors; but it is an old and true saying that bad officers
make a bad crew. When a man's best efforts are rewarded with abuse, it is unreasonable to expect
that he will perform his various duties with alacrity and cheerfulness. It was customary, at
that period, for rum to be served out to the crew, and the minimum allowance, in nearly all
American vessels, was a glass of rum at dinner, with an extra glass during exposure to inclement
weather, or when engaged in unusually fatiguing labors. This extra glass was generally served
out by the steward at the companion-way, and the men were summoned to partake of this indulgence
by a call to "splice the main brace."

Captain Mott, however, refused to furnish the crew of the Casket with the usual daily allowance
of grog. This refusal, there was reason to believe, was caused, not by a commendable wish to
promote temperance, and break up habits of intoxication, but from a desire to gratify a surly
and unamiable disposition, and deprive the men of an enjoyment which they highly prized. With
such a captain and mate, and regulations of the most arbitrary and stringent character, it
may be imagined that the grumbling at hard treatment, and the muttered curses against the inmates
of the cabin, were neither few, nor far between.

But the captain, while he refused the DAILY allowance of grog, did not deem it advisable to
withhold the usual allowance on Saturday night, when every true sailor loved to meet his shipmates
around a flowing bowl, and pass a happy hour in lively conversation, singing sea songs, spinning
yarns, and drinking with heartfelt emotion the toast of all others the dearest and best "Sweethearts
and Wives."

     "Of all the nights that grace the week,
     There's none can equal this;
     It binds the mind in friendship's bonds;
     It heightens social bliss.
     For though far distant from the land,
     At home our thoughts shall be,
     Whilst, shipmates, joining heart and hand
     Hail Saturday Night at Sea."

No one can imagine the tender, thrilling, and holy associations which cluster round those words,
"Sweethearts and Wives," unless he has been long separated from those he loves, a wanderer
on a distant sea. That Saturday night toast came home to the bosom of every man who carried
a heart beneath a blue jacket. The gallantry of the sailor has often been spoken of. His devotion
to woman is proverbial. With few opportunities to mingle in female society, he can, nevertheless,
truly estimate its value, and appreciate its advantages. Indeed, I have known old sailors,
whose rough and wrinkled visages, blunt and repulsive manners, coarse and unrefined language,
were enough to banish gentle Cupid to an iceberg, exhibit the kindest and tenderest feelings
when speaking of WOMAN, whom in the abstract they regarded as a being not merely to be protected,
cherished, and loved, but also to be adored.

I shall never forget the well-deserved rebuke I once received from a sturdy old tar for an
ill-timed comment on a woman's personal appearance. It was in St. Salvador. The captain of
a Portuguese ship was going on shore accompanied by his wife. The boat crossed the bows of
the ship I was in; the feminine garments attracted the attention of all hands, who suspended
their work and gazed upon the charming object as if they beheld something more than mortal.
As the boat passed onward, and we resumed labors which the glimpse of a petticoat had interrupted,
with a want of gallantry which I trust is foreign to my character, for which I cannot even
now account, and of which I was afterwards heartily ashamed, I casually remarked, "Well, there's
nothing wonderful about her, after all; she's HOMELY enough, in all conscience!"

"Hawser," said my old shipmate, in a solemn and impressive manner, gracefully waving the marlinspike
which he held in his hand, "THERE IS NO SUCH THING IN NATER AS A HOMELY WOMAN!"

"Saturday Night" in olden times was not only devoted to reminiscences of home and affectionate
associations, but was also the time selected for indulgence in the songs of the forecastle.
After the usual toast, "Sweethearts and Wives," had been drunk with enthusiasm, some one of
the crew was called on for a song, and the call was responded to without affected reluctance;
and the beams, carlines, and bulkheads of the old forecastle rang again with stirring songs
or ballads poured forth from manly and musical throats, in praise of beauty, descriptive of
life at sea, recording deeds of heroism, or inculcating lessons of patriotism.

To these songs of the forecastle, sung on the land as well as on the ocean, in beauty's bower
as well as in the sailor's sanctuary or the stifled cabin, in days when accompaniments to vocal
music were not considered necessary, when the full melodious sound of the human voice, THE
NOBLEST MUSIC IN THE WORLD, was not strangled, drowned, or travestied by the noise of the everlasting
piano, played with artistic skill to these spirit-stirring songs of the forecastle was commerce
indebted for many of the finest and best sailors ever sprinkled with salt water.

The well known songs of "the Bay of Biscay," "Black Eyed Susan," and "Cease, Rude Boreas,"
once listened to with emotion and delight at the cottage fireside, or the fashionable drawing
room, and the many songs long since forgotten of a similar character, written by salt water
poets, and sung by mariners at home and abroad, have transformed enthusiastic and adventurous
landsmen into sailors by scores, as by the touch of an enchanter's wand. Dibdin did more to
man the "wooden walls of old England" with brave and effective men than all the press-gangs
that ever infested the banks of the Thames.

There was one man on board the Casket who, more than all others, aided to keep the crew cheerful
and happy. He was the life and soul of the forecastle. Not all the oppressive and unfeeling
acts of the captain, and rough and unjust treatment from the mate, which would naturally excite
indignation and a discontented spirit, such as sometimes will lead to insubordination on the
part of the crew, followed by the free use of handspikes, rope's ends, and manacles, on the
part of the officers, could repress the spirits of Jonas Silvernail, spoil his jokes, or lessen
the volume of his hearty and sonorous laugh. Jonas was a native of Hudson, in New York; a young,
active, intelligent sailor, who, always good-humored, was never more happy than when singing
a sea song, spinning a merry yarn, or playing off a practical joke. Jonas was one of those
jovial mortals who seemed determined to make sure of present enjoyment, and let the future
take care of itself; to bask in the sunshine of life, while others despondingly wilt in the shade.

Good humor is contagious; and it was owing to the cheerful, contented spirit, infused among
the crew of the Casket by Silvernail's example, that they forbore from insolent remonstrances,
and wisely resolved to bear the ills they had, rather,

     "Than fly to others which they knew not of."

Such a man in the forecastle of a ship and in my seafaring days such men were not rare is a
treasure. He lightens the labors of a crew, adds to the harmony and happiness of all on board,
shortens a passage, and, as a natural consequence, promotes the interests of the owner.

On one occasion, however, Silvernail's fondness for fun threatened to disturb the harmony which
was wont to reign in the forecastle. Among the crew was a big, clumsy Dutchman, through whose
thick cranium no joke could penetrate, and whose feet were of proportions as huge as his head,
each resembling, in size and shape, a Brazilian catamaran. The men conversing one day of the
dangers of the seas, and the best means of preserving life in cases of shipwreck, or when accidentally
falling overboard, Hans, who cherished a strong attachment to his own dear person, expressed
a regret that he had no cork jacket, by whose aid he could float above the waves.

"Be under no concern on that account," remarked Jonas. "If you were in the water, a cork jacket
would be of no more use to you than a pair of curling tongs to Cuffy, the black cook. But don't
try to swim. TREAD WATER lustily with those mud scows (pointing to his feet) and you will never
go to the bottom."

"You just let my foot alone," said Hans, his face glowing with indignation. "You are always
poking fun at my foot, and I don't half like it. My foot is one very good foot, (holding it
up, and swaying it backwards and forwards;) just fit to kick an impudent vagabone with and
teach him better manners."

"That may be true," said Silvernail, with a provoking grin; "but if you should chance to miss
the vagabone, as you call him, YOUR FOOT WOULD FLY OFF!"

This, and the loud laugh from his shipmates, with which it was attended, was more than even
the phlegmatic Dutchman could bear. He made a furious pass at Jonas with his much-abused foot,
which, if it had taken effect, would have demolished the joker in a twinkling. But Jonas stepped
aside, caught the ponderous foot in his hand, and the next moment Hans was sprawling on his
back. He arose, breathing guttural but incomprehensible denunciations against his tormentor,
who escaped from his clutches by nimbly running up the ratlines to the foretop, where he could
safely indulge his merriment over the wrath of the Dutchman.

I was often amused at the ingenious manner in which Jonas managed to get over a difficulty.
One day when, with the wind abaft the beam, blowing a strong breeze, we were carrying a main-topmast
studding sail, the boatswain very properly undertook to get up a preventer-brace on the weather
main yard-arm. A rope was procured, which had already been considerably worn, and the boatswain
expressed some apprehension that it was hardly strong enough for the service required. "O,"
said Jonas in an off-hand, decided manner, "it will hold on until it breaks; and if it was
ever so strong it could do no more."

The boatswain appeared favorably struck with the unanswerable logic embraced in the remark,
and made no further objection to the rope.

On this voyage I had one source of pleasure, of an elevated character, which was denied to
the rest of my shipmates. This was my attachment to books. Before I left New Orleans, I purchased
a variety of second-hand volumes; a miscellaneous collection, which enabled me to pass many
pleasant hours on our passage to Havre, and at the same time lay in a stock of information
which might prove of great value at a future day.

In books I found biographies of good men, whose example fortified my mind against the temptations
to vice and immorality, which beset the sailor on every side. They furnished me with an interesting
occupation in an idle hour, acted as a solace for disappointment, and a faithful friend and
consoler in anxiety and trouble; inspired me with a feeling of emulation, and bade me look
forward with hope. Many is the hour when, after a hard day's work, or an exciting scene of
peril or suffering, by the dim light of a tallow candle, or a lamp manufactured by my own hands,
while others were lamenting their hard fate, or pouring out their indignation in unavailing
grumblings, I have, while poring over a book, lost all sense of unhappiness, and been transported
far away to other and happier scenes; sometimes exploring with Barrow the inhospitable wastes
of Africa; accompanying Christian on his journey to the Celestial City; sympathizing with the
good Vicar of Wakefield in his domestic misfortunes; sharing the disquietudes of Rasselas in
the "Happy Valley;" tracing, with almost breathless interest, the career of some ancient hero
whom Plutarch has immortalized, or lingering over the thrilling adventures and perils of "Sindbad
the Sailor."

A sailor before the mast, as well as the inmates of the cabin, has many hours on every voyage,
which may be and should be, devoted to reading and study. When a resident of the forecastle,
I have by my example, and by urgent appeals to the pride, the ambition, and good sense of my
shipmates, induced them to cultivate a taste for reading, and awakened in their minds a thirst
for information. Some of these men, by dint of hard study, and a determination, even at a late
day, to shake off all profligate habits, and be something more than a common sailor, qualified
themselves for a different station, and eventually became respectable shipmasters and merchants.

We lost one of our crew overboard, on this passage, in a manner somewhat singular. He was an
Italian, called Antonio, and remarkable for a love of cleanliness a priceless virtue, when
not carried to excess. He was continually washing his face and hands, as if to get rid of impurities
communicated by the atmosphere. One Sunday afternoon, with a strong breeze on the quarter,
the brig was reeling it off at the rate of eight or nine knots, and a rough and turbulent sea
was helping her along. Notwithstanding the wind was three or four points abaft the beam, Captain
Mott insisted on carrying main-topmast and middle staysails, and occasionally when the vessel
was a little off of her course, the main-topmast staysail sheet, which was fastened to a cleat
in the main deck, would give a "slat," with great violence. Antonio had just left the helm,
and, according to his usual custom, proceeded to draw a bucket of water from alongside, in
which to immerse his face and hands. But while he was stooping, in the very act of performing
his ablutions, the brig, through the inattention of the helmsman, was run off her course nearly
before the wind, the staysails were becalmed and the main-topmast staysail sheet, that is,
the rope which kept the sail in its proper position, give a terrible jerk, caught the unfortunate
Italian behind, lifted him from his feet, and actually tossed him over the gunwale. The thing
was so sudden, he had not time to struggle, or even to scream, as he sank beneath the billows,
while the brig swept onward, leaving him far astern. The cry, "A man's overboard!" was instantly
raised by those who witnessed the sad event. One man sprang into the weather main shrouds in
order to keep an eye on the poor fellow who became a martyr to cleanliness. The helm was put
down, the brig rounded to, and sails laid aback. But attempts to rescue him were fruitless.
He was not seen after he struck the water.

After having been about forty-five days at sea, we got sight one morning of "the Caskets,"
in the middle of the English Channel, about thirty miles west of Cape LaHogue, and on the following
day entered the harbor of Havre, the seaport of Paris, situated at the mouth of the Seine.

Chapter XXXIV. THE GENERAL ARMSTRONG

Nothing remarkable happened during our stay in Havre, excepting an unpleasant affair in which
our good-humored shipmate, Jonas Silvernail, played a principal part. The master of an English
brig, an ignorant man, but excessively arrogant and presuming, one day took some of our men
to task on the quay, accusing them of having taken a portion of his crew to a grog-shop, where
they plied them with liquor until they were drunk, and then left them alone in their glory.

Jonas, in behalf of the crew of the Casket, stoutly but respectfully denied the correctness
of the statement, so far as himself or his shipmates were concerned, and was about making an
explanation, which must have been satisfactory, when he was interrupted by the excited Briton,
who not only gave him the lie direct, but went so far as to define, in coarse and profane language,
the particular character of the lie.

Jonas, although a model of subordination on shipboard, nevertheless possessed the spirit of
a man, and would not brook abuse or insolence from any one who had no rightful authority over
him. His eye sparkled, his lip quivered, and his fingers convulsively contracted, while he
remarked, in a tone somewhat emphatic, "When a blackguard gives a gentleman the lie, he is,
of course, prepared to defend himself!"

Acting upon this supposition he levelled a blow at the Englishman's face, which laid his cheek
open to the bone, and stretched him on the wharf in double-quick time, as flat as a halibut!

Here was a pretty business! The affair looked serious for Jonas, as the Englishman swore vengeance
against the Yankee ruffian, if there was any law or justice among a frog-eating people! Jonas
was arrested, but by the kind agency of Mr. Beasley, the American consul, he was relieved from
restraint on payment of a moderate fine. The choleric Briton was taught a valuable lesson,
and in all likelihood put a curb on his tongue ever afterwards when talking to strangers, especially
if the stranger happened to be a Yankee!

After having discharged our cargo of cotton, we sailed from Havre in ballast. We encountered
a strong head wind in the chops of the Channel, and were beating about for several days. One
night we were steering a course about north-north-west, under single-reefed topsails, courses
and spanker, with the wind at west, while the fog was so thick that the jib-boom could hardly
be seen from the forecastle, and supposed ourselves at least thirty miles to the southward
of the Scilly Islands. Jonas and myself, who were walking the main deck, while the boatswain
was leaning lazily against the quarter rail, and the captain and mate were sleeping in their
berths below, were startled by a dull, moaning sound, which, ever and anon, seemed to come
up from under the lee bow. The noise became more distinct. "What can it be?" said I, alarmed.

"I know it now," exclaimed Jonas. "It is the ROTE of the breakers dashing against the rocks,
and we must be lively, or we shall soon be in kingdom come. Boatswain!" shouted he, "Breakers!
Breakers ahead! Call up the captain!" and hastening forward he made such a noise on the forecastle
as to rouse out all hands, who rushed on deck marvellously lightly clad, but prepared to encounter
some mighty evil.

The captain was awakened by the word "breakers," a word which sounds ominous in a sailor's
ears, and was on deck in a trice. He heard the rumbling noise, the character of which could
not be mistaken. "Ready about!": he screamed. "Stations, men! Hard down the helm!"

The brig came up into the wind, the sails shivered, but owing to the head sea or some other
cause, she would not come round, and soon gathered stern way. But captain Mott was a good seaman.
"Brace round the head yards!" he exclaimed. "Lower away the spanker peak!"

The brig, by the action of the helm, the head sails being thrown aback, fell off rapidly on
her heel, and soon gathering headway, barely cleared the dark and rugged cliffs of St. Agnes
in the north, which now, as well as the powerful beacon light by which they were surmounted,
broke through the dense fog.

It was a narrow escape. Fifteen minutes more would have carried us among the sunken rocks and
ledges which are piled together in admirable confusion on the southwest side of the Scilly
Isles, and the vessel and all hands would have been among the things which were.

The wind came round to the eastward on the following day, and we shaped our course across the
Atlantic, bound for Savannah, whither we arrived, without the occurrence of any remarkable
incident, about the first of May, 1817.

Having passed a couple of months in Savannah a few years before, I was aware from personal
inspection of the wretchedly low character of the sailor boarding houses in that city; and
I shuddered at the idea of passing the few days or weeks of my sojourn in Savannah at one of
these "omnium gatherums" of intemperance and iniquity.

I gave to my shipmates such a graphic but faithful description of the sailor boarding houses
in Savannah, that the boatswain of the brig, with Jonas Silvernail and William Jones, agreed
to join me in trying to secure quarters of a character somewhat more respectable than the dens
of iniquity frequented by sailors. We flattered ourselves there would be no difficulty in finding
such a boarding house as we wished, knowing there were many mechanics at that time in Savannah,
temporary residents, who were accommodated with board in well-regulated families at a reasonable
rate, and we saw no reason why we should not be treated with equal favor.

Accordingly, the day after our arrival in port, having received our discharge, we carefully
removed from our hands all stains of tar, rigged ourselves out in our neatest apparel, put
on our most sober and demure faces, and started off on a cruise after a boarding house. We
had received some desultory information from persons we had fallen in with about the wharves,
which in a measure influenced our course.

We were not particularly successful in our quest. The simple fact which we could not deny,
that "WE WERE SAILORS," was sufficient to bar every door against our entrance. It was in vain
we represented ourselves as remarkably staid and sober sailors, possessing amiable dispositions,
not given to liquor or rowdyism, and in search of quiet quarters in a respectable family.

To all this the one fatal objection was opposed, "WE WERE SAILORS," and of course could not
reasonably expect to be received into any respectable house. No faith was given to our professions
of sobriety. The term "sailor" in the minds of those good people was synonymous with "blackguard"
or "drunken vagabond." It comprehended everything which was vile or wicked. After applying
at more than a dozen different places, and finding the estimate of a sailor's character every
where the same, and that exceptions to the general rule in this case were not allowed, we reluctantly
abandoned our exploring expedition, disgusted and mortified at finding such unfounded prejudice
existing against sailors, whom WE not only believed to be human beings, and entitled to rights,
privileges, and indulgences as such, but a class of men which actually included many worthy,
honest, well-behaved individuals, as well as those of an opposite character. We could not but
doubt the policy as well as justice of a line of conduct which represses every effort on the
part of seafaring men to cultivate a self-respect, and elevate themselves in the scale of society;
a line of conduct which is calculated to thrust them contemptuously back, and plunge them deeper
in the slough from which, perhaps, they are striving to emerge.

In those days there was no "Mariner's House" or "Sailor's Home" established in our large seaports
by true philanthropists for the benefit of seamen, where this useful but too long neglected
and condemned class might find a quiet, well-regulated, and respectable house, with its doors
thrown open to receive them.

We returned, crestfallen and disheartened, to the brig, and passed another night in the forecastle;
and the next morning, being compelled to find an asylum on shore, we inspected several of the
sailor boarding houses, with a view to select the least objectionable for our temporary home.
There was little room for choice. The landlords were all swaggering foreigners; their rooms
were filled with a dense effluvia arising from a combination of odors, in which the fumes of
tobacco and rum constituted a prominent part; and drinking grog, playing cards and dominoes,
swearing, quarrelling, and fighting seemed to be the principal occupation and amusements of
the main portion of the boarders.

Such were the scenes I was destined to witness in Savannah; such were the men with whom I was
compelled to associate; such were the temptations to which I was subjected, and which few could
pass through unscathed; such were MY "schools and schoolmasters" in early life.

After much hesitation and many misgivings, we finally established our quarters at the sign
of the "General Armstrong," which was kept by John Hubbard, a tight little Irishman, a regular
"broth of a boy," illiterate, not being able to write his name, with a tongue well steeped
in blarney, with a conscience as elastic as a piece of India rubber, and a consummate adept
in the art of wheedling a sailor out of his money.

The sign which was placed conspicuously over the door of this boarding house was a popular
one, and well calculated to attract. It was not intended to represent General Armstrong of
revolutionary memory, the avowed author of the treasonable "Newburg Letters," but the American
privateer of that name, riding at anchor, and in the act of battling with the British boats
in Fayal. Hubbard had been a petty officer in the privateer, and prided himself on the part
which he took in that memorable affair, and on which he dearly loved to dwell, to the great
admiration of his half-drunken auditors.

The General Armstrong privateer was a brig belonging to New York, mounting a battery of eight
long nines and a twenty-four pounder amidships. The brig, a remarkably fast sailing vessel,
was commanded by Samuel C. Reid, a young and gallant sailor, who displayed much courage, activity,
and skill in harassing the enemies of his country on the high seas, and had been successful
in capturing many valuable British ships.

While cruising off the Western Islands in the autumn of 1814, the privateer being short of
water, to procure a supply put into Fayal on the morning of the 26th of September. On the afternoon
of the same day three English ships-of-war arrived, anchored at the entrance of the harbor,
and received from the pilots and fishermen intelligence that the far-famed American privateer
General Armstrong was then in port, and lying beneath the guns of the fortifications.

Captain Reid, witnessing the arrival of these ships, did not consider himself altogether safe
from attack. He knew that his vessel was particularly obnoxious to the British, who would be
likely to disregard neutrality laws, spare no pains, and overcome almost any scruples in order
to insure her destruction; also, that Portugal was a feeble power, which existed only by the
sufferance and protection of Great Britain. Therefore Captain Reid, instead of relying on international
law as a barrier against aggression, determined to rely on himself and the brave men with him;
and when the British ships appeared in the offing, he commenced making vigorous preparations
for defence. As soon as it was twilight he commenced warping his vessel nearer the shore. This
manoeuver was seen from the decks of the English squadron, which consisted of the Plantagenet
ship-of-the-line, the Rota frigate, and the Carnation gun-brig; and four boats were immediately
sent off, filled with armed men, who pulled directly towards the privateer.

But Captain Reid was watching the movements of the enemy. He ordered his men to pause in their
labors, and stand ready to give their visitors a warm reception. When the boats arrived within
speaking distance, he hailed, but received no answer; the boats pulled on in gloomy silence.
He hailed again, but there was no reply, but the men redoubled their efforts at the oars. Captain
Reid, aware there was no time to be lost, hailed a third time, ordering the boats to keep off,
or he would fire into them. The boats kept on. The word was given to "FIRE," and a volley of
musketry was poured into the densely crowded boats, causing great confusion and killing and
wounding a large number of the crews. The fire, however, was returned by the British, and the
first lieutenant of the privateer was severely wounded and one man was killed. After a sharp,
but severe contest, in which the enemy made desperate attempts to get alongside, the boats
hauled off and returned to their respective ships.

Captain Reid knew this was only the beginning of the drama. He encouraged his men, and got
in readiness for a more serious engagement. He moored his vessel close to the shore, loaded
his large guns to the muzzle with grape and canister, and every musket with bullets and buckshot.
His men were all on deck ready and eager to meet the foe.

The moon had risen, and lighted up the bay, so that objects could be distinctly seen at a considerable
distance. And soon after midnight, twelve boats, carrying nearly four hundred men, and armed
with carronades, swivels, and blunderbusses, as well as muskets, pistols, and cutlasses, left
the squadron and pulled directly for the privateer. The crisis was at hand, and although the
brave commander of the privateer knew that his vessel must eventually fall into the hands of
his unscrupulous enemy, he determined to defend her to the last.

A fierce and desperate engagement ensued. As soon as the boats came within range, they were
greeted with the contents of "long Tom;" and the nine pounders also faithfully performed their
work. The guns were served with almost incredible skill and activity, and aimed with the nicest
precision. The fire was returned by the boats, although it was evident that some of them suffered
severely from the effects of the first broadside. Others, however, dashed alongside, with the
expectation of carrying the privateer by boarding; but here, again, they were disappointed.
Pistols and muskets flashed from every porthole, and boarding-pikes and cutlasses, wielded
by strong hands, presented a CHEVAUX-DE-FRISE which the enemy could not overleap. The carnage
was terrible; the contest lasted over half an hour, and resulted in the total defeat of the
British, who, with bull-dog ferocity and obstinacy, although foiled in their desperate effort
to take the privateer, were unwilling to abandon the enterprise, and were shot and hewn down
by scores. Only three of the officers escaped; several of the boats were destroyed, and two
of them, after the action, were found alongside the brig, literally filled with the dead and dying!

The boats which survived the conflict, crushed and discomfited, pulled slowly back to their
ships, bearing with them many of the wounded. Of the four hundred who left the ships an hour
and a half before, full of health, high in spirits, and eager for the battle, hardly one hundred
and fifty returned unharmed.

The attack on the boats by Captain Reid and his brave men was so sudden and overwhelming, that
the enemy, notwithstanding the convulsive efforts of a few, seemed incapable of making any
effective resistance. Instead of being the attacking party, their efforts were mainly confined
to ineffectual attempts to defend themselves. Thus, on the part of the Americans, the loss
in the two engagements was only two killed and seven wounded. One of those who fell was Mr.
Williams, of New York, the second lieutenant. The first and third lieutenants were among the
wounded. Thus, early in the action Captain Reid was deprived of the services of his most efficient
officers, but he was equal to the emergency, and his cool and intrepid conduct secured the victory.

On the following morning, soon after daybreak, the Carnation gun-brig was hauled in within
point blank gun-shot, and opened a fire on the General Armstrong; but the gallant commander
of the privateer, being determined to submit to no other than a superior force, returned the
fire with his long twenty-four pounder so effectually, boring the brig through and through
at every shot, that she was soon glad to haul off to avoid being sunk at her anchors. Preparations
were now making to bring in the frigate; and aware that to prolong the contest would be worse
than useless, Captain Reid ordered the brig's masts to be cut away, a hole blown through her
bottom, and with all his men, trunks, chests, and baggage, took to his boats and safely reached
the shore. They had not been landed fifteen minutes when the dismasted sinking vessel was boarded
by the British boats without resistance, and immediately set on fire. Such was the fate of
the General Armstrong privateer!

It is perhaps not strange that, before my shipmates and myself had been a week at the boarding
house, around whose attractive sign clustered such patriotic associations, Downes, the boatswain
of the Casket, and Jones both became acclimated to the noxious atmosphere redolent of alcohol
and other disgusting compounds, succumbed to the temptations by which they were surrounded,
and drank as much grog, were as noisy and unruly, and as ready for a quarrel as any dissolute
old Irishman in the whole circle of Jim Hubbards' household. Indeed the boatswain, a young
fellow possessed of many excellent qualities, and who had made a resolution to reform some
bad habits in which he had indulged, got drunk before he had been three days an inmate of the
establishment, quarrelled with an English sailor, fought with him, was severely whipped and
furnished with a couple of magnificent black eyes.

The generality of Jim Hubbard's boarders were what may be technically termed "a hard set."
Among them were many foreigners, who seemed to have been the off-scourings of their native
countries, and whose manners and morals had not been improved by the peculiar discipline and
lessons in ethics they had become familiar with on board English men-of-war or Patriot privateers.
In truth they were a band of roistering blades, and by day and by night, when not dead drunk,
were restless, noisy, vociferous, and terribly profane. Flush with their money, and acting
from generous impulses, they would urge a stranger to drink with them in good fellowship, and
if the invitation was declined, were equally ready to knock him down or kick him into the street,
as unworthy the society of good fellows.

Whole crews came to the house, from long voyages, with pockets overflowing with cash. They
were received with smiles of welcome by Hubbard, and the treasures of his bar were placed before
them. At the proper time they were told by their obliging landlord that it was a praiseworthy
custom among new comers to "treat all hands." Then commenced a course of unrestrained dissipation,
which was not interrupted so long as their money held out. They became uproarious, and took
a strange pleasure in enacting scenes, which should never be witnessed out of Bedlam. But as
their money diminished their landlord gave them the cold shoulder; their love of frolic and
fighting was sensibly lessened, and their spirits at last fell to zero on being told by their
sympathizing host, who kept a careful watch over their finances, and kindly aided them in spending
their money by making fictitious charges, and exacting double prices for what they actually
had, that THEIR CASH WAS ALL GONE; that it was not his custom to give credit, and the sooner
they found a ship, and cleared out, the better.

Such, I am sorry to say, was the character of most of the sailor landlords in "days lang syne."
And notwithstanding the efforts which have since been made to elevate the condition of the
sailor, and provide him with a comfortable house on shore, I greatly fear the race is not extinct;
and that Jack, even in these days, often becomes the prey of one of these crafty, plausible,
smiling, unprincipled scoundrels, who hands him a bottle of rum with one hand and picks his
pocket with the other; who, under the guise of friendship, bears towards the sailor the same
kind of affection he is prepared to expect from the man-eating shark which is seen prowling
round a ship. If he falls into the clutches of either, he is sure to be taken in and done for.

But among Jim Hubbard's boarders, there were a very few of a different character from those
I have described; some who kept sober, and had a due regard to the rules of propriety. These,
sometimes, sought to restore order out of chaos, but soon abandoned the attempt as a bootless
task, and bowed submissively to the storm whose force they could not arrest. Among these was
a young man named Catlin. He was rather below than above the medium size, but had a broad chest
and a muscular frame. He was evidently a thorough sailor; his countenance was open and intelligent;
he was quiet and unobtrusive in his manners, and often seemed disgusted with the unruly conduct
of the major part of the boarders, some of whom had been shipmates with him in a former voyage.
Catlin was troubled with an impediment in his speech, and it was doubtless owing to this, as
well as to his sober habits, that his voice was seldom heard amid the vocal din which shook
the walls of the General Armstrong.

One morning a large ship arrived in Savannah from Boston, with a choice crew, consisting of
the boatswain and ten fine-looking, athletic young men. After the ship was made fast at the
wharf, and the decks cleared up, the crew received permission to go ashore; and, neatly rigged
and headed by the boatswain, a splendid looking, symmetrically built native of Connecticut,
who stood six feet two inches in his stockings, and wore a feather in his hat like a Highland
chieftain, they paraded through several of the streets of Savannah, singing, laughing, and
cheering, bent on a regular frolic. They occasionally stopped at hospitable houses, where "for
a consideration" they could be accommodated with liquor to assuage thirst and enliven their
already lively spirits.

It was about nine o'clock in the evening when this jovial crew came to Jim Hubbard's boarding
house, entered the public room, and called for something to drink. Some of these men were disposed
to be quarrelsome, and were insolent to the landlord; clearly wishing to provoke a fight; and
a considerable number of the boarders instantly threw off their jackets, ready to take the
part of their host. The parties being nearly equal, there was a very distinct prospect of a
neat little row, or a regular pounding match.

Just as the parties were coming to blows the boatswain interposed, requesting his shipmates
to keep quiet and close their clamshells; and then in an arrogant and defiant tone, stretching
himself to his full height, he exclaimed, "If there is any fighting to be done here, I am the
man to do it." And, with a dash of that spirit of chivalry which animated the Paladins of old,
he added, "I challenge any man in the house to step into the street, and face me in a regular
boxing match."

His large stature, big whiskers, insolent tone, and menacing gestures were calculated to inspire
awe, and those who had shown themselves most eager to take part in the MELEE, shrank instinctively
from the idea of meeting this son of Anak in single combat. But Catlin, the meek-looking, quiet,
inoffensive, stuttering Catlin, who had been an attentive looker-on without evincing any disposition
to take part in the proceedings no sooner heard the challenge, so vain-gloriously given, than
he bounded from his seat in a corner of the room, and stood before the doughty champion.

"I ca-ca-ca-nt stand th-th-at," said Catlin, his eyes flashing with indignation. "I am your
m-m-man!"

The affair became interesting. A ring was immediately formed in front of the boarding house,
into which the champions of the respective parties, denuded of all unnecessary covering, and
each attended by his second, entered. The crew of the ship, the boarders of the General Armstrong,
and the inmates of various boarding houses in the vicinity, formed quite a numerous body of
spectators. The combatants very properly dispensed with the absurd custom of shaking hands
before they came to blows. After glowering at each other for a moment, they went vigorously
to work. The boatswain seemed determined to demolish his puny antagonist at once by some well-directed
blows, and might possibly have succeeded if the blows had taken effect. But Catlin parried
or avoided them with surprising skill and agility, until the boatswain losing patience, grasped
his antagonist in his sinewy arms, and after a brief struggle, Catlin was thorn heavily upon
his back.

He rose from the earth, like a second Antaeus, with renewed vigor, and when the boatswain attempted
to repeat the operation, Catlin dealt him a blow in the body which fairly lifted him from his
feet, and, doubling him up, dropped him motionless on the ground.

By the aid of his second, the boatswain was soon again on his feet. The fight was renewed,
and continued with but little cessation for fifteen or twenty minutes, during which time Catlin
had been twice thrown, but had received no visible injury; and the boatswain's features had
been knocked out of all shape, and he had been several times felled to the earth by the terrible
blows given by his antagonist. His endurance was wonderful; he submitted to his pounding like
a hero, but he was rapidly losing strength; was evidently suffering much from pain, and another
round would probably have finished the fierce contest, crowned Catlin with the victor's wreath,
and led to a general tumult and row, when some new actors entered on the scene and changed
the order of the performances.

These actors appeared in the guise of a squad of police officers, the city patrol, who had
received intelligence of the row. They broke through the ring, without regard to ceremony,
and made a dash at the men who were striving so hard to maul one another. The boatswain unable
to resist or flee, was easily captured, and also his second. But Catlin, having heard the cry
of "the watch! the watch!" as these vigilant preservers of the public peace broke through the
ring, gave his antagonist a parting blow which he long remembered, forced his way through or
leaped over the dense throng which obstructed his progress, and with the speed of a race horse
rushed into the house, and almost before the officers of the law were aware of his escape,
he had donned his garments, and without a scratch on his person, mingled unsuspected with the
throng of spectators. The boatswain, notwithstanding the woeful plight he was in, for he was
dreadfully punished, was marched off to the guard house, accompanied by his faithful second,
and on the following day was mulcted in an exemplary fine for disturbing the peace.

The most singular battle between two-legged brutes that I ever beheld, was fought one day between
two stout negroes in the neighborhood of my boarding house in Savannah. They had cherished
a grudge against each other for some time, and accidentally meeting, a war of words ensued,
which attracted a crowd of spectators, who kindly used all possible efforts to induce them
to break the peace, in which charitable enterprise they finally succeeded.

Much to my surprise, and greatly to the amusement of the bystanders, the darkies made no use
of their fists, neither did they grasp each other by the waist, or resort to the worse than
savage practice of gouging. They retreated from the spot where they had been standing, until
the space between them would measure some ten or twelve paces, a good duelling distance, and
then instead of throwing tomahawks or javelins at each other's heads, or discharging bullets
of lead from the mouths of pistols or blunderbusses, they bowed down their heads, as if overcome
with humility, and rushed at each other with inconceivable fury.

Like knights of ancient days, they met half way in the lists; but instead of shivering their
spears right manfully, their heads came in contact, like a collision between two locomotives,
making a noise like a clap of thunder. As they rose from the ground from which they were both
thrown by the violence of the shock, fire seemed actually to flash from their eyes, and they
shook their heads from shoulder to shoulder for several seconds, apparently to know if all
was right within.

The result being satisfactory, they retreated a short distance, not so far as at first, and
again tried the terrible experiment of seeing which head was the hardest. After giving several
of these practical illustrations of the noble art of butting, in a fashion that would have
cracked, crushed and demolished the thickest craniums belonging to the Caucasian family, but
which seemed to produce little effect on these hard-headed sons of sires born on the banks
of the Niger, one of the belligerent parties watched an opportunity when his opponent was off
his guard, dexterously evaded the favor intended for him, and drove his own head with tremendous
force against the bosom of his antagonist.

This of course finished the engagement, for the poor fellow was thrown backwards with violence
to the ground, where he remained for some time senseless, while the grinning victor received
the congratulations of his friends.

Chapter XXXV. VOYAGE TO GOTTENBURG

I passed nearly three weeks in Savannah at Jim Hubbard's boarding house, mingling freely with
the different characters who frequented that establishment, making my observations on men and
things; and if at times I felt humiliated and uncomfortable, I solaced myself by the reflection
that my sojourn in that place would be brief, and in the mean time would open to my inspection
a new chapter in the book of life; and being constitutionally of a hopeful disposition, and
seldom troubled with despondency, instead of suffering my thoughts to dwell on present perplexities,
I looked forward to more prosperous scenes and happier times.

At length I found an opportunity to quit Savannah, of which I shall ever retain a vivid recollection,
by shipping before the mast in a good wholesome-looking brig, known as the Joseph, of Boston,
and bound to Gottenburg, with a cargo of tobacco.

The name of the brig was not a very attractive one, but I had learned long before that the
names of merchant vessels, being bestowed according to the taste, fancy, or whim of the owner,
should never be regarded as indicative of character, any more than the names of individuals.
The first vessel I sailed in, although named after the most beautiful and swift fish that swims
the ocean, the dolphin, was one of the ugliest and dullest sailing crafts that ever floated
on salt water.

Some ship-owners have a great partiality to animals; hence we find noble ships bearing the
names of creatures of every description, from the most ferocious beast to the most unsightly
reptile. Other ships carry on their sterns the names of heroes and heroines, gods and goddesses;
satyrs, nymphs, civilians, poets, artists, statesmen, and demagogues; of kings, warriors, buccaneers,
philanthropists, and brigands. It is thus we count among our ships a Hercules and a Joan of
Arc; with Apollos, Minervas, Canovas, Hogarths, John Howards, and Robin Hoods, with a dense
sprinkling of Mammoths and Mosquitoes, Tigers and Humming Birds, Whales and Butterflies, Nondescripts,
Demons, volcanoes and Icebergs.

Some names of ships are ingenious and quaint, others commonplace or ridiculous; some are expressed
in a phrase consisting of a few words, others in a word of one syllable, and sometimes of one
letter. Thus we have the INO, and the GUESS; awkward names to repeat when asked, "What is the
name of that ship?" and the "Catch me if you can," and the "What d'ye think 'tis like?" which,
by their respective godfathers, are thought to be extremely witty. Thus, we have the "Ay, ay,
sir," the "Tom," the "A No. 1," the "Tallyho," and the "W."

During the last war with Great Britain two privateers were built by the same individuals, and
were intended to cruise in company; they were called the "United we stand," and the "Divided
we fall." A number of years since, three large and elegant ships constituted a line of English
packets between Liverpool and Charleston, in South Carolina. They were, with commendable taste,
named after three celebrated poems by three distinguished British poets, the "Lalla Rookh,"
the "Corsair," and "Marmion." An opulent merchant in Rhode Island, having been repeatedly disappointed
in his wish to have a male descendant, although he was the father of half a dozen cherry-cheeked
GIRLS, gave the name of "Boy" to a ship of his, which was launched a few weeks after the birth
of his youngest daughter. This ship was a fortunate one, and a great favorite of the owner,
but never arrived at man's estate, continuing "a boy" to the end of the chapter.

Some ship-owners give to their vessels names of individuals distinguished for talent or worth,
or who have served their country nobly by sea or by land. Some bestow on their ships those
names that are dearest to them; those of their sweethearts, their wives, their children, brethren,
sisters, or friends, as the case may be. Thus we have the "Three sons," "Ten Brothers," "Four
Sisters," "Sally Anne," "Aunt Hitty," and "Huldah and Judy;" and thus we may account for the
euphonious name of a vessel, once belonging to Windsor, in Virginia, the "Jonathan Jacocks."

Some years ago two Boston merchants were engaged in building a ship for the freighting business.
When finished, there was a difference of opinion in regard to the selection of a name. One
proposed the name of a distinguished southern statesman, Mr. Poinsett; the other, an old shipmaster,
remonstrated against giving the ship the name of any living person; and he carried his point.
"The man you mention," said he, with energy and emphasis, "is a good fellow enough now; but
before two years, he may change his politics, or do some other shabby act that will stamp his
name with infamy. And then how foolish we shall look when hailing our ship. No! Never while
you live, call your ship, or your child, after any living great man; but take the name of some
one whose excellence is vouched for by a tombstone."

A line of packet ships was projected, and in part established some thirty-five years ago, between
Boston and Liverpool, by some public-spirited merchants. The project, however, after a time
was abandoned. Three new and beautiful ships were built for this enterprise, and plied regularly
between the two ports; they were named the Emerald, the Topaz, and the Amethyst. If the undertaking
had been successful, other ships would have been added with names of a similar stamp, as the
Diamond, the Ruby, the Coral, or the Pearl.

The government of the United States has, for many years, adopted the plan of naming ships-of-the-line
after the different states in the Union, the frigates after the rivers, and the sloops of war
after the principal cities; thus we have the Vermont, Ohio, Pennsylvania, etc., the Brandywine,
Raritan, Merrimac, etc., and the Jamestown, Portsmouth, Hartford, etc. As no more ships-of-the-line
will probably be constructed, comparatively few of the states will receive the honor originally
intended.

The introduction of large clipper built ships, within a few years, has been attended with a
new and distinct class of names, some of which are of a decidedly poetical character, and fill
the largest speaking trumpet to its utmost capacity; thus the ocean is traversed in every direction
by "Winged Racers," "Flying Arrows," "Sparkling Seas," "Shooting Stars," "Foaming Waves," "White
Squalls," "Sovereigns of the Seas," and "Thunder Showers;" and we may soon see launched the
"Almighty Dollar."

The brig Joseph was commanded by Ezra Allen, a very worthy, well-meaning man, of moderate capacity,
and an indifferent sailor. The mate, Mr. Bowen, was an energetic, down-east Yankee, with a
drawl as long as the deep sea line, and almost as much twisted. He was one of those queer mortals,
manufactured nowhere but in New England, who, restless, inquisitive, ingenious, and bold, can
readily adapt themselves to any situation, and, under a very raw and green exterior, conceal
an inexhaustible mine of practical good sense and available intelligence on almost every subject.
Mr. Bowen, although deferential in his deportment towards the captain, and ever treating him
with a good show of respect, was in reality master of the brig; his advice being solicited
on the most trivial occasion, and every suggestion he made in relation to the management of
the vessel was eagerly seized upon by the captain. Indeed, Bowen was a model of a mate; industrious,
economical, and faithful, treating the crew with kindness and consideration, yet exacting their
full quota of labor. No "bread of idleness" was consumed where he had the direction of affairs.
Under his management there was perfect subordination, without the necessity of resorting to
heavers and handspikes as a means of enforcing authority.

The second mate, Mr. Conners, was a little, weasel-faced man, of uncertain extraction, who
had a great idea of his importance, and like other mates I have seen, bustled about the decks,
as if to make up in noise and bustle deficiencies in merit; forgetting that a quiet, decided,
straightforward manner is more effective in enforcing authority, and establishing discipline,
than the roughest language breathed through iron lungs. We had but a brief opportunity to test
his worth, for, on the second day after leaving port, Mr. Conners was attacked with illness,
stricken down and confined to his state-room, where he lay, suffering much pain, and uttering
moans of a character not unfamiliar to my ears. The chief mate came on deck while I was at
the helm, and in answer to my inquiries, gave me the particulars of his illness.

"Mr. Bowen," said I, "that man has got the yellow fever, and it is a severe case. It will probably
go hard with him."

