 The greatest Teacher of Mental Science the world has ever seen has laid down
sufficiently plain rules for our guidance. With a knowledge of the subject whose depth can
be appreciated only by those who have themselves some practical acquaintance with it, He bids
His unlearned audiences, those common people who heard Him gladly, picture to themselves the
Universal Mind as a benign Father, tenderly compassionate of all and sending the common bounties
of Nature alike on the evil and the good; but He also pictured It as exercising a special and
peculiar care over those who recognize Its willingness to do so:--"the very hairs of your head
are all numbered," and "ye are of more value than many sparrows." Prayer was to be made to
the unseen Being, not with doubt or fear, but with the absolute assurance of a certain answer,
and no limit was to be set to its power or willingness to work for us. But to those who did
not thus realize it, the Great Mind is necessarily the adversary who casts them into prison
until they have paid the uttermost farthing; and thus in all cases the Master impressed upon
his hearers the exact correspondence of the attitude of this unseen Power towards them with
their own attitude towards it. Such teaching was not a narrow anthropomorphism but the adaptation
to the intellectual capacity of the unlettered multitude of the very deepest truths of what
we now call Mental Science. And the basis of it all is the cryptic personality of spirit hidden
throughout the infinite of Nature under every form of manifestation. As unalloyed Life and
Intelligence it can be no other than good, it can entertain no intention of evil, and thus
all intentional evil must put us in opposition to it, and so deprive us of the consciousness
of its guidance and strengthening and thus leave us to grope our own way and fight our own
battle single-handed against the universe, odds which at last will surely prove too great for
us. But remember that the opposition can never be on the part of the Universal Mind, for in
itself it is sub-conscious mind; and to suppose any active opposition taken on its own initiative
would be contrary to all we have learnt as to the nature of sub-conscious mind whether in the
individual or the universal; the position of the Universal Mind towards us is always the reflection
of our own attitude. Therefore although the Bible is full of threatening against those who
persist in conscious opposition to the Divine Law of Good, it is on the other hand full of
promises of immediate and full forgiveness to all who change, their attitude and desire to
co-operate with the Law of Good so far as they know it. The laws of Nature do not act vindictively;
and through all theological formularies and traditional interpretations let us realize that
what we are dealing with is the supreme law of our own being; and it is on the basis of this
natural law that we find such declarations as that in Ezek. xviii., 22, which tells that if
we forsake our evil ways our past transgressions shall never again be mentioned to us. We are
dealing with the great principles of our subjective being, and our misuse of them in the past
can never make them change their inherent law of action. If our method of using them in the
past has brought us sorrow, fear and trouble, we have only to fall back on the law that if
we reverse the cause the effects will be reversed also; and so what we have to do is simply
to reverse our mental attitude and then endeavour to act up to the new one. The sincere endeavour
to act up to our new mental attitude is essential, for we cannot really think in one way and
act in another; but our repeated failures to fully act as we would wish must not discourage
us. It is the sincere intention that is the essential thing, and this will in time release
us from the bondage of habits which at present seem almost insuperable.

The initial step, then, consists in determining to picture the Universal Mind as the ideal
of all we could wish it to be both to ourselves and to others, together with the endeavour
to reproduce this ideal, however imperfectly, in our own life; and this step having been taken,
we can then cheerfully look upon it as our ever-present Friend, providing all good, guarding
from all danger, and guiding us with all counsel. Gradually as the habit of thus regarding
the Universal Mind grows upon us, we shall find that in accordance with the laws we have been
considering, it will become more and more personal to us, and in response to our desire its
inherent intelligence will make itself more and more clearly perceptible within as a power
of perceiving truth far beyond any statement of it that we could formulate by merely intellectual
investigation. Similarly if we think of it as a great power devoted to supplying all our needs,
we shall impress this character also upon it, and by the law of subjective mind it will proceed
to enact the part of that special providence which we have credited it with being; and if,
beyond the general care of our concerns, we would draw to ourselves some particular benefit,
the same rule holds good of impressing our desire upon the Universal Subjective Mind. And if
we realize that above and beyond all this we want something still greater and more enduring,
the building-up of character and unfolding of our powers so that we may expand into fuller
and yet fuller measures of joyous and joy-giving Life, still the same rule holds good: convey
to the Universal Mind the suggestion of the desire, and by the law of relation between subjective
and objective mind this too will be fulfilled. And thus the deepest problems of philosophy
bring us back to the old statement of the Law:--Ask and ye shall receive, seek and ye shall
find, knock and it shall be opened unto you. This is the summing-up of the natural law of the
relation between us and the Divine Mind. It is thus no vain boast that Mental Science can enable
us to make our lives what we will. We must start from where we are now, and by rightly estimating
our relation to the Divine Universal Mind we can gradually grow into any conditions we desire,
provided we first make ourselves in habitual mental attitude the person who corresponds to
those conditions: for we can never get over the law of correspondence, and the externalization
will always be in accord with the internal principle that gives rise to it. And to this law
there is no limit. What it can do for us to-day it can do to-morrow, and through all that procession
of to-morrows that loses itself in the dim vistas of eternity. Belief in limitation is the
one and only thing that causes limitation, because we thus impress limitation upon the creative
principle; and in proportion as we lay that belief aside our boundaries will expand, and increasing
life and more abundant blessing will be ours.

But we must not ignore our responsibilities. Trained thought is far more powerful than untrained,
and therefore the more deeply we penetrate into Mental Science the more carefully we must guard
against all thoughts and words expressive of even the most modified form of ill-will. Gossip,
tale-bearing, sneering laughter, are not in accord with the principles of Mental Science; and
similarly even our smallest thoughts of good carry with them a seed of good which will assuredly
bear fruit in due time. This is not mere "goodie, goodie," but an important lesson in Mental
Science, for our subjective mind takes its colour from our settled mental habits, and an occasional
affirmation or denial will not be sufficient to change it; and we must therefore cultivate
that tone which we wish to see reproduced in our conditions whether of body, mind, or circumstance.

In these lectures my purpose has been, not so much to give specific rules of practice as to
lay down the broad general principles of Mental Science which will enable the student to form
rules for himself. In every walk in life, book knowledge is only a means to an end. Books can
only direct us where to look and what to look for, but we must do the finding for ourselves;
therefore, if you have really grasped the principles of the science, you will frame rules of
your own which will give you better results than any attempt to follow somebody else's method,
which was successful in their hands precisely because it was theirs. Never fear to be yourself.
If Mental Science does not teach you to be yourself it teaches you nothing. Yourself, more
yourself, and yet more yourself is what you want; only with the knowledge that the true self
includes the inner and higher self which is always in immediate touch with the Great Divine Mind.

As Walt Whitman says:--"You are not all included between your hat and your boots."

       *       *       *       *       *

The growing popularity of the Edinburgh Lectures on Mental Science has led me to add to the
present edition three more sections on Body, Soul, and Spirit, which it is hoped will prove
useful by rendering the principles of the interaction of these three factors somewhat clearer.

XIV.

THE BODY.

Some students find it difficult to realize that mental action can produce any real effect upon
material substance; but if this is not possible there is no such thing as Mental Science, the
purpose of which is to produce improved conditions both of body and environment, so that the
ultimate manifestation aimed at is always one of demonstration upon the plane of the visible
and concrete. Therefore to afford conviction of an actual connection between the visible and
the invisible, between the inner and the outer, is one of the most important points in the
course of our studies.

That such a connection must exist is proved by metaphysical argument in answer to the question,
"How did anything ever come into existence at all?" And the whole creation, ourselves included,
stands as evidence to this great truth. But to many minds merely abstract argument is not completely
convincing, or at any rate it becomes more convincing if it is supported by something of a
more concrete nature; and for such readers I would give a few hints as to the correspondence
between the physical and the mental. The subject covers a very wide area, and the limited space
at my disposal will only allow me to touch on a few suggestive points, still these may be sufficient
to show that the abstract argument has some corresponding facts at the back of it.

One of the most convincing proofs I have seen is that afforded by the "biometre," a little
instrument invented by an eminent French scientist, the late Dr. Hippolyte Baraduc, which shows
the action of what he calls the "vital current." His theory is that this force, whatever its
actual nature may be, is universally present, and operates as a current of physical vitality
perpetually, flowing with more or less energy through every physical organism, and which can,
at any rate to some extent, be controlled by the power of the human will. The theory in all
its minutiae is exceedingly elaborate, and has been described in detail in Dr. Baraduc's published
works. In a conversation I had with him about a year ago, he told me he was writing another
book which would throw further light on the subject, but a few months later he passed over
before it was presented to the world. The fact, however, which I wish to put before the reader,
is the ocular demonstration of the connection between mind and matter, which an experiment
with the biometre affords.

The instrument consists of a bell glass, from the inside of which is suspended a copper needle
by a fine silken thread. The glass stands on a wooden support, below which is a coil of copper
wire, which, however, is not connected with any battery or other apparatus, and merely serves
to condense the current. Below the needle, inside the glass, there is a circular card divided
into degrees to mark the action of the needle. Two of these instruments are placed side by
side, but in no way connected, and the experimenter then holds out the fingers of both hands
to within about an inch of the glasses. According to the theory, the current enters at the
left hand, circulates through the body, and passes out at the right hand, that is to say, there
is an indrawing at the left and a giving-out at the right, thus agreeing with Reichenbach's
experiments on the polarity of the human body.

I must confess that, although I had read Dr. Baraduc's book, "Les Vibrations Humaines," I approached
the instrument in a very sceptical frame of mind; but I was soon convinced of my error. At
first, holding a mental attitude of entire relaxation, I found that the left-hand needle was
attracted through twenty degrees, while the right-hand needle, the one affected by the out-going
current, was repelled through ten degrees. After allowing the instrument to return to its normal
equilibrium I again approached it with the purpose of seeing whether a change of mental attitude
would in the least modify the flow of current. This time I assumed the strongest mental attitude
I could with the intention of sending out a flow through the right hand, and the result as
compared with the previous one was remarkable. The left-hand needle was now attracted only
through ten degrees, while the right-hand one was deflected through something over thirty,
thus clearly indicating the influence of the mental faculties in modifying the action of the
current. I may mention that the experiment was made in the presence of two medical men who
noted the movement of the needles.

I will not here stop to discuss the question of what the actual constitution of this current
of vital energy may be--it is sufficient for our present purpose that it is there, and the
experiment I have described brings us face to face with the fact of a correspondence between
our own mental attitude and the invisible forces of nature. Even if we say that this current
is some form of electricity, and that the variation of its action is determined by changes
in the polarization of the atoms of the body, then this change of polarity is the result of
mental action; so that the quickening or retarding of the cosmic current is equally the result
of the mental attitude whether we suppose our mental force to act directly upon the current
itself or indirectly by inducing changes in the molecular structure of the body. Whichever
hypothesis we adopt the conclusion is the same, namely, that the mind has power to open or
close the door to invisible forces in such a way that the result of the mental action becomes
apparent on the material plane.

Now, investigation shows that the physical body, is a mechanism specially adapted for the transmutation
of the inner or mental power into modes of external activity. We know from medical science
that the whole body is traversed by a network of nerves which serve as the channels of communication
between the indwelling spiritual ego, which we call mind, and the functions of the external
organism. This nervous system is dual. One system, known as the Sympathetic, is the channel
for all those activities which are not consciously directed by our volition, such as the operation
of the digestive organs, the repair of the daily wear and tear of the tissues, and the like.
The other system, known as the Voluntary or Cerebro-spinal system, is the channel through which
we receive conscious perception from the physical senses and exercise control over the movements
of the body. This system has its centre in the brain, while the other has its centre in a ganglionic
mass at the back of the stomach known as the solar plexus, and sometimes spoken of as the abdominal
brain. The cerebro- spinal system is the channel of our volitional or conscious mental action,
and the sympathetic system is the channel of that mental action which unconsciously supports
the vital functions of the body. Thus the cerebro- spinal system is the organ of conscious
mind and the sympathetic is that of sub-conscious mind.

But the interaction of conscious and subconscious mind requires a similar interaction between
the corresponding systems of nerves, and one conspicuous connection by which this is provided
is the "vagus" nerve. This nerve passes out of the cerebral region as a portion of the voluntary
system, and through it we control the vocal organs; then it passes onwards to the thorax sending
out branches to the heart and lungs; and finally, passing through the diaphragm, it loses the
outer coating which distinguishes the nerves of the voluntary system and becomes identified
with those of the sympathetic system, so forming a connecting link between the two and making
the man physically a single entity.

Similarly different areas of the brain indicate, their connection with the objective and subjective
activities of the mind respectively, and speaking in a general way we may assign the frontal
portion of the brain to the former and the posterior portion to the latter, while the intermediate
portion partakes of the character of both.

The intuitional faculty has its correspondence in this upper area of the brain situated between
the frontal and posterior portions, and physiologically speaking, it is here that intuitive
ideas find entrance. These at first are more or less unformed and generalized in character,
but are nevertheless perceived by the conscious mind, otherwise we should not be aware of them
at all. Then the effort of nature is to bring these ideas into more definite and usable shape,
so the conscious mind lays hold of them and induces a corresponding vibratory current in the
voluntary system of nerves, and this in turn induces a similar current in the involuntary system,
thus handing the idea over to the subjective mind. The vibratory current which had first descended
from the apex of the brain to the frontal brain and thus through the voluntary system to the
solar plexus is now reversed and ascends from the solar plexus through the sympathetic system
to the posterior brain, this return current indicating the action of the subjective mind.

If we were to remove the surface portion of the apex of the brain we should find immediately
below it the shining belt of brain substance called the "corpus callosum." This is the point
of union between the subjective and objective, and as the current returns from the solar plexus
to this point it is restored to the objective portion of the brain in a fresh form which it
has acquired by the silent alchemy of the subjective mind. Thus the conception which was at
first only vaguely recognized is restored to the objective mind in a definite and workable
form, and then the objective mind, acting through the frontal brain--the area of comparison
and analysis--proceeds to work upon a clearly perceived idea and to bring out the potentialities
that are latent in it.

It must of course be borne in mind that I am here speaking of the mental ego in that, mode
of its existence with which we are most familiar, that is as clothed in flesh, though there
may be much to say as to other modes of its activity. But for our daily life we have to consider
ourselves as we are in that aspect of life, and from this point of view the physiological correspondence
of the body to the action of the mind is an important item; and therefore, although we must
always remember that the origin of ideas is purely mental, we must not forget that on the physical
plane every mental action implies a corresponding molecular action in the brain and in the
two-fold nervous system.

If, as the old Elizabethan poet says, "the soul is form, and doth the body make," then it is
clear that the physical organism must be a mechanical arrangement as specially adapted for
the use of the soul's powers as a steam-engine is for the power of steam; and it is the recognition
of this reciprocity between the two that is the basis of all spiritual or mental healing, and
therefore the study of this mechanical adaptation is an important branch of Mental Science.
Only we must not forget that it is the effect and not the cause.

At the same time it is important to remember that such a thing as reversal of the relation
between cause and effect is possible, just as the same apparatus may be made to generate mechanical
power by the application of electricity, or to generate electricity by the application of mechanical
power. And the importance of this principle consists in this. There is always a tendency for
actions which were at first voluntary to become automatic, that is, to pass from the region
of conscious mind into that of subconscious mind, and to acquire a permanent domicile there.
Professor Elmer Gates, of Washington, has demonstrated this physiologically in his studies
of brain formation. He tells us that every thought produces a slight molecular change in the
substance of the brain, and the repetition of the same sort of thought causes a repetition
of the same molecular action until at last a veritable channel is formed in the brain substance,
which can only be eradicated by a reverse process of thought. In this way "grooves of thought"
are very literal things, and when once established the vibrations of the cosmic currents flow
automatically through them and thus react upon the mind by a process the reverse of that by
which our voluntary and intentional in-drawing from the invisible is affected. In this way
are formed what we call "habits," and hence the importance of controlling our thinking and
guarding it against undesirable ideas.

But on the other hand this reactionary process may be used to confirm good and life-giving
modes of thought, so that by a knowledge of its laws we may enlist even the physical body itself
in the building up of that perfectly whole personality, the attainment of which is the aim
and object of our studies.

XV.

THE SOUL.

Having now obtained a glimpse of the adaptation of the physical organism to the action of the
mind we must next realize that the mind itself is an organism which is in like manner adapted
to the action of a still higher power, only here the adaptation is one of mental faculty. As
with other invisible forces all we can know of the mind is by observing what it does, but with
this difference, that since we ourselves are this mind, our observation is an interior observation
of states of consciousness. In this way we recognize certain faculties of our mind, the working
order of which I have considered at page 84; but the point to which I would now draw attention
is that these faculties always work under the influence of something which stimulates them,
and this stimulus may come either from without through the external senses, or from within
by the consciousness of something not perceptible on the physical plane. Now the recognition
of these interior sources of stimulus to our mental faculties, is an important branch of Mental
Science, because the mental action thus set up works just as accurately through the physical
correspondences as those which start from the recognition of external facts, and therefore
the control and right direction of these inner perceptions is a matter of the first moment.

The faculties most immediately concerned are the intuition and the imagination, but it is at
first difficult to see how the intuition, which is entirely spontaneous, can be brought under
the control of the will. Of course, the spontaneousness of the intuition cannot in any way
be interfered with, for if it ceased to act spontaneously it would cease to be the intuition.
Its province is, as it were, to capture ideas from the infinite and present them to the mind
to be dealt with at its discretion. In our mental constitution the intuition is the point of
origination and, therefore, for it to cease to act spontaneously would be for it to cease to
act at all. But the experience of a long succession of observers shows that the intuition can
be trained so as to acquire increased sensitiveness in some, particular direction, and the
choice of the general direction is determined by the will of the individual.

It will be found that the intuition works most readily in respect to those subjects which most
habitually occupy our thought; and according to the physiological correspondences which we
have been considering this might be accounted for on the physical plane by the formation of
brain-channels specially adapted for the induction in the molecular system of vibrations corresponding
to the particular class of ideas in question. But of course we must remember that the ideas
themselves are not caused by the molecular changes but on the contrary are the cause of them;
and it is in this translation of thought action into physical action that we are brought face
to face with the eternal mystery of the descent of spirit into matter; and that though we may
trace matter through successive degrees of refinement till it becomes what, in comparison with
those denser modes that are most familiar, we might call a spiritual substance, yet at the
end of it it is not the intelligent thinking principle itself. The criterion is in the word
"vibrations." However delicately etheric the substance its movement commences by the vibration
of its particles, and a vibration is a wave having a certain length, amplitude, and periodicity,
that is to say, something which can exist only in terms of space and time; and as soon as we
are dealing with anything capable of the conception of measurement we may be quite certain
that we are not dealing with Spirit but only with one of its vehicles. Therefore although we
may push our analysis of matter further and ever further back--and on this line there is a
great deal of knowledge to be gained--we shall find that the point at which spiritual power
or thought-force is translated into etheric or atomic vibration will always elude us. Therefore
we must not attribute the origination of ideas to molecular displacement in the brain, though,
by the reaction of the physical upon the mental which I have spoken of above, the formation
of thought-channels in the grey matter of the brain may tend to facilitate the reception of
certain ideas. Some people are actually conscious of the action of the upper portion of the
brain during the influx of an intuition, the sensation being that of a sort of expansion in
that brain area, which might be compared to the opening of a valve or door; but all attempts
to induce the inflow of intuitive ideas by the physiological expedient of trying to open this
valve by the exercise of the will should be discouraged as likely to prove injurious to the
brain. I believe some Oriental systems advocate this method, but we may well trust the mind
to regulate the action of its physical channels in a manner suitable to its own requirements,
instead of trying to manipulate the mind by the unnatural forcing of its mechanical instrument.
In all our studies on these lines we must remember that development is always by perfectly
natural growth and is not brought about by unduly straining any portion of the system.

The fact, however, remains that the intuition works most freely in that direction in which
we most habitually concentrate our thought; and in practice it will be found that the best
way to cultivate the intuition in any particular direction is to meditate upon the abstract
principles of that particular class of subjects rather than only to consider particular cases.
Perhaps the reason is that particular cases have to do with specific phenomena, that is with
the law working under certain limiting conditions, whereas the principles of the law are not
limited by local conditions, and so habitual meditation on them sets our intuition free to
range in an infinitude where the conception of antecedent conditions does not limit it. Anyway,
whatever may be the theoretical explanation, you will find that the clear grasp of abstract
principles in any direction has a wonderfully quickening effect upon the intuition in that
particular direction.

The importance of recognizing our power of thus giving direction to the intuition cannot be
exaggerated, for if the mind is attuned to sympathy with the highest phases of spirit this
power opens the door to limitless possibilities of knowledge. In its highest workings intuition
becomes inspiration, and certain great records of fundamental truths and supreme mysteries
which have come down to us from thousands of generations bequeathed by deep thinkers of old
can only be accounted for on the supposition that their earnest thought on the Originating
Spirit, coupled with a reverent worship of It, opened the door, through their intuitive faculty,
to the most sublime inspirations regarding the supreme truths of the universe both with respect
to the evolution of the cosmos and to the evolution of the individual. Among such records explanatory
of the supreme mysteries three stand out pre-eminent, all bearing witness to the same ONE Truth,
and each throwing light upon the other; and these three are the Bible, the Great Pyramid, and
the Pack of Cards--a curious combination some will think, but I hope in another volume of this
series to be able to justify my present statement. I allude to these three records here because
the unity of principle which they exhibit, notwithstanding their wide divergence of method,
affords a standing proof that the direction taken by the intuition is largely determined by
the will of the individual opening the mind in that particular direction.

Very closely allied to the intuition is the faculty of imagination. This does not mean mere
fancies, which we dismiss without further consideration, but our power of forming mental images
upon which we dwell. These, as I have said in the earlier part of this book, form a nucleus
which, on its own plane, calls into action the universal Law of Attraction, thus giving rise
to the principle of Growth. The relation of the intuition to the imagination is that the intuition
grasps an idea from the Great Universal Mind, in which all things subsist as potentials, and
presents it to the imagination in its essence rather than in a definite form, and then our
image-building faculty gives it a clear and definite form which it presents before the mental
vision, and which we then vivify by letting our thought dwell upon it, thus infusing our own
personality into it, and so providing that personal element through which the specific action
of the universal law relatively to the particular individual always takes place.[1] Whether
our thought shall be allowed thus to dwell upon a particular mental image depends on our own
will, and our exercise of our will depends on our belief in our power to use it so as to disperse
or consolidate a given mental image; and finally our belief in our power to do this depends
on our recognition of our relation to God, Who is the source of all power; for it is an invariable
truth that our life will take its whole form, tone, and color from our conception of God, whether
that conception be positive or negative, and the sequence by which it does so is that now given.

In this way, then, our intuition is related to our imagination, and this relation has its physiological
correspondence in the circulus of molecular vibrations I have described above, which, having
its commencement in the higher or "ideal" portion of the brain flows through the voluntary
nervous system, the physical channel of objective mind, returning through the sympathetic system,
the physical channel of subjective mind, thus completing the circuit and being then restored
to the frontal brain, where it is consciously modelled into clear-cut forms suited to a specific
purpose.

In all this the power of the will as regulating the action both of the intuition and the imagination
must never be lost sight of, for without such a central controlling power we should lose all
sense of individuality; and hence the ultimate aim of the evolutionary process is to evolve
individual wills actuated by such beneficence and enlightenment as shall make them fitting
vehicles for the outflowing of the Supreme Spirit, which has hitherto created cosmically, and
can now carry on the creative process to its highest stages only through conscious union with
the individual; for this is the only possible solution of the great problem, How can the Universal
Mind act in all its fulness upon the plane of the individual and particular?

This is the ultimate of evolution, and the successful evolution of the individual depends on
his recognizing this ultimate and working towards it; and therefore this should be the great
end of our studies. There is a correspondence in the constitution of the body to the faculties
of the soul, and there is a similar correspondence in the faculties of the soul to the power
of the All-originating Spirit; and as in all other adaptations of specific vehicles so also
here, we can never correctly understand the nature of the vehicle and use it rightly until
we realize the nature of the power for the working of which it is specially adapted. Let us,
then, in conclusion briefly consider the nature of that power.

XVI.

THE SPIRIT.

What must the Supreme All-originating Spirit be in itself? That is the question before us.
Let us start with one fact regarding it about which we cannot have any possible doubt--it is
creative. If it were not creative nothing could come into existence; therefore we know that
its purpose, or Law of Tendency, must be to bring individual lives into existence and to surround
them with a suitable environment. Now a power which has this for its inherent nature must be
a kindly power. The Spirit of Life seeking expression in individual lives can have no other
intention towards them than "that they might have life, and that they might have it more abundantly."
To suppose the opposite would be a contradiction in terms. It would be to suppose the Eternal
Principle of Life acting against itself, expressing itself as the reverse of what it is, in
which case it would not be expressing itself but expressing its opposite; so that it is impossible
to conceive of the Spirit of Life acting otherwise than to the increase of life. This is as
yet only imperfectly apparent by reason of our imperfect apprehension of the position, and
our consequent want of conscious unity with the ONE Eternal Life. As our consciousness of unity
becomes more perfect so will the life-givingness of the Spirit become more apparent. But in
the realm of principles the purely Affirmative and Life-giving nature of the All-originating
Spirit is an unavoidable conclusion. Now by what name can we call such an inherent desire to
add to the fulness of any individual life--that is, to make it stronger, brighter, and happier?
If this is not Love, then I do not know what else it is; and so we are philosophically led
to the conclusion that Love is the prime moving power of the Creating Spirit.

But expression is impossible without Form. What Form, then, should Love give to the vehicles
of its expression? By the hypothesis of the case it could not find self-expression in forms
that were hateful or repugnant to it--therefore the only logical correlative of Love is Beauty.
Beauty is not yet universally manifested for the same reason that Life is not, namely, lack
of recognition of its Principle; but, that the principle of Beauty is inherent in the Eternal
Mind is demonstrated by all that is beautiful in the world in which we live.

These considerations show us that the inherent nature of the Spirit must consist in the eternal
interaction of Love and Beauty as the Active and Passive polarity of Being. Then this is the
Power for the working of which our soul faculties are specially adapted. And when this purpose
of the adaptation is recognized we begin to get some insight into the way in which our intuition,
imagination, and will should be exercized. By training our thought to habitually dwell upon
this dual-unity of the Originating Forces of Love and Beauty the intuition is rendered more
and more sensitive to ideas emanating from this supreme source, and the imagining faculty is
trained in the formation of images corresponding to such ideas; while on the physical side
the molecular structure of the brain and body becomes more and more perfectly adjusted to the
generating of vibratory currents tending to the outward manifestation of the Originating Principle.
Thus the whole man is brought into unison with himself and with the Supreme Source of Life,
so that, in the words of St. Paul, he is being day by day renewed after the image of Him that
created him.

Our more immediately personal recognition of the All-originating Love and Beauty will thus
flow out as peace of mind, health of body, discretion in the management of our affairs, and
power in the carrying out of our undertakings; and as we advance to a wider conception of the
working of the Spirit of Love and Beauty in its infinite possibilities, so our intuition will
find a wider scope and our field of activity will expand along with it--in a word we shall
discover that our individuality is growing, and that we are becoming more truly ourselves than
we ever were before.

The question of the specific lines on which the individual may be most perfectly trained into
such recognition of his true relation to the All-embracing Spirit of Life is therefore of supreme
importance, but it is also of such magnitude that even to briefly sketch its broad outlines
would require a volume to itself, and I will therefore not attempt to enter upon it here, my
present purpose being only to offer some hints of the principles underlying that wonderful
three-fold unity of Body, Soul, and Spirit which we all know ourselves to be.

