Free and Impartial

THOUGHTS,

ON THE

Sovereignty of God,

THE

DOCTRINES

OF

Election, Reprobation,

AND

Original Sin:

Humbly Addressed

To all who Believe and Profess those

DOCTRINES.

The Second Edition, Corrected and Enlarged.

LONDON:

Printed for J. ROBINSON, at the Golden-Lion, in Ludgate-Street.

M.DCC.XLV.

THE

PREFACE

I Cannot find, upon the most impartial Retrospection of the Argument, any Reason to alter my
Sentiments concerning it; and as it is a Matter of the greatest Importance, 'tis hoped that
those who maintain the Doctrines of Election, &c. will afford it all the Weight and Consideration
it deserves. But, if there be any among them, who will hear no Reason or Argument whatever,
and are sure, only because they are sure, I Have little or no Hopes to prevail with them, to
give me a fair Hearing, or to think candidly and impartially about it. But as there are among
them, some, who no doubt will allow the Possibility of their being in an Error; to all such
I address my self, and beseech them, as much as possible to lay aside Prejudice and Partiality;
wisely considering, that many of their Fore-fathers maintained some erroneous Doctrines, with
as much Zeal, and Integrity, as they their Descendants now do the Doctrines of Election, &c.
and yet saw Occasion to renounce them afterwards.

There is Reason to fear, the just Liberty I have taken with the Doctrines of Election, &c.
may, by some, be deem'd Blasphemy against God himself; but I am far from intending any such
thing. These Doctrines (I think) on the contrary, are in them selves nothing better than blasphemous,
tho' the Intentions of some who maintain them, be ever so devout and sincere: And if an Impeachment
of Doctrines, which, instead of preserving God's Moral Character, robs him of all that is dear
and valuable, or that can render him lovely and adorable to Man, be accounted Blasphemy, the
Ignorance and Bigotry of those, who judge after that Manner, ought much to be lamented. It
is a melancholy Truth, that where Prejudice, in favour of false Principles, has had early and
frequent Access to the Mind, it too often shuts the Ear against Reason and Truth; and 'tis
very hard to persuade such People to enter at all, and much less impartially, into the Merits
of an Argument advanced against them; nor indeed is the Liberty of Thought on Religious Subjects,
duly inculcated in Religious Assemblies: For, the Teachers of Christianity, tho' they are seldom
averse to give us the Compliment of a just Liberty of thinking for ourselves, are but too apt
to set the Terrors of the Lord in array against Unbelievers; tho' perhaps their Dissent may
sometimes be only the innocent Effect, of the best Examination they are able to make. And if
there be any thing worthy of Notice, in what I have advanced, I hereby intreat all, into whose
Hands this Treatise may come, not to be terrified, by any such popular Arts, from making a
thorough Examination for themselves; on the other hand, I am altogether as willing to set right,
in whatever I may have erred, or been mistaken.

'Tis well known, the 17th Article of our own National Church, greatly favours the Doctrines
of Election and Reprobation; and it is also generally believed, that the Better Part of our
Clergy entirely disapprove these Doctrines, and would very readily assist in expunging them
out of their Creed; which would render their Consciences much easier, than now they are, or
can be, under a Subscription in a Sense so very qualified and remote from the natural Intent
and Meaning of the Article.

Experience makes it evident, that Education is able to retain Men of the Brightest Understanding,
in the Belief of the Greatest Absurdities. But, that Men of Learning, Ingenuity and Experience,
who have lived perhaps to the Age of fifty, in the Disbelief of the Doctrines of Election,
&c. should after that sincerely embrace them, is to me Matter of great Astonishment; yet this
I am inform'd is really the Case, with regard to one of the most ingenious Divines, our Metropolis
has to boast of. One Reason may perhaps be alledged, for such an unexpected Alteration of Sentiment,
viz. That tho' we disbelieve these Doctrines, because they are absurd, yet we hold at the same
time, others, equally repugnant to Reason, and to Common Sense; and certainly we may as reasonably
embrace the one as retain the other. Besides, with what reasonable Expectation of Success could
such a Man as this sit down to argue with another of absurd Principles, when he himself might
be so easily abash'd and put to Silence, by an Appeal to other Principles, of his own, equally
absurd and inexplicable. The best way then, instead of embracing a fresh, absurd, Principle
of Faith, is, to renounce the old. I would not willingly Offend Any, by a special Application
to particular Societies and Doctrines: let but every Man make an honest Application to himself,
and the Articles of Faith he professes, and the Work of Reformation will, I am persuaded, gain
something thereby. And that, not only these Doctrines, but every other absurd Principle of
Faith, which either Ignorance, or Design, may have introduced into the Christian church, to
the Dishonour of God, the Burthen and Reproach of Human Nature, may be utterly exploded, is
the incessant Wish, and earnest Desire, of

The Author.

Free and Impartial

THOUGHTS, &c.

CHRISTIANITY having been instituted, by its great Author and Publisher, for the Benefit and
Advantage of Mankind, it is pity we should so greatly differ, concerning what Genuine Christianity
is; if the Holy Bible, as we generally agree, was designed to lead us to the true Knowledge
of God, and to be a standing and perpetual Rule of Faith and Manners to Men, it must surely
have been greatly corrupted since the primitive Times of the Gospel, or the Explication of
it designedly left to a more excellent and superior Director: For the seeming Contradictions,
and Multiplicity of obscure Passages, wherewith it abounds, shew plainly it could never, in
its present Condition, be a Rule of Faith, &c. becoming an all-wise and perfect Being, to give
to rational Creatures. Every good Man, Society, and State, study Perspicuity in all their Rules,
Orders, and Statutes, dispensed to their Families, Members, and Subjects: and can we suppose,
that He, who is perfect in Knowledge, would, in the Dispensation of his Laws, take less care
of the everlasting State of his immortal Creature Man? Yet it is plain, we differ in our Sentiments
of Religion, and greatly too, for want, as I sincerely hope, of the Knowledge of better Helps,
to direct our Inquiries, in Matters, the true Knowledge whereof, is of so considerable Moment.
Therefore,

I intend, in the Course of this Debate, to descant freely, on the Doctrines of Divine Sovereignty,
Election, Reprobation, and Original Sin; and also, on the Arguments which some ingenious Gentlemen
have used to support them. But I hope (with regard to the Authors I may possibly name) to be
perfectly decent, and to treat them with all becoming Respect and Deference, as I think Men
of Integrity, Learning and Abilities deserve; who, though in some Points they may err, and
hold Doctrines in their own Nature and Tendency altogether subversive of Religion and Morality,
do nevertheless not perceive them to have these Tendencies, and are therefore by no Means chargeable
with them. Yet, as touching the Doctrines themselves, I shall presume to speak freely, both
in regard to their Nature, and what appears to me to be their genuine Fruits and Effects.

It is with me an establish'd Truth, that the mistaken Notion of some learned Men, concerning
the Sovereignty of the Deity, has given these Doctrines a more favourable Acceptance in the
World, than otherwise they would, or could, ever have met with; and notwithstanding all the
Pains and Arguments these Gentlemen have bestowed, to reconcile their Doctrines to our common
Sense of Right and Wrong, it is plain, that, at bottom, this is the grand governing Principle.
For, when their Attempts to reconcile these Doctrines with common Sense and Equity fail, they
have immediate Recourse to God's Sovereignty, and even go so far, at least in Effect, as to
deny there is any intrinsick Difference in Things themselves, as shall be made appear from
their most approved Writers, whenever they are pleased to demand it: But as this Principle
of Sovereignty is most certainly their strong Hold, I shall therefore endeavour to go to the
Depth of this Argument; and shew, in the first Place, how greatly they misapprehend the Nature
of this Attribute; and, in the second Place, granting it to be as they say, I shall then shew
the precarious and miserable Condition of all Mankind, not excepting the Elect themselves,
under the Government of such an arbitrary Being.

To begin with the first. That God is a Sovereign, we readily allow: But it will not therefore
follow, he is morally capable of doing any thing, in its own Nature, immoral or unjust. All
religious Debates are allowed to be best determinable by the divine Attributes; and yet nothing
is more common, than to single out, and lay the greatest Stress on, that Attribute alone, which
appears best to suit our own particular Opinions: which, however innocent our Intention may
be, is, I think, in itself, a very erroneous and unwarrantable Procedure; for as God is all-wise
and good, as well as almighty and independent, it is, in the Nature of Things, impossible (and
therefore we should never admit it possible) he should be capable (in a moral Sense, I mean)
of exerting any one particular Attribute in Opposition to, or Diminution from, another. A Sovereign
he is, nor can any Creature whatever dispute his unlimited and uncontroulable Power over his
whole Creation. But Power alone, without Wisdom and Goodness to make a right Use and Application
of it, may be perfect Frenzy, and run into the greatest Latitude of Folly and Tyranny. It is,
if I may be allowed the Comparison, like a Vessel that has lost its Helm, continually exposed
to the tossing of Winds and Waves. To talk, therefore, of mere Sovereign Pleasure, without
Regard to the proper Reason or Fitness of Things, so far operating and bring in the Divine
Mind (and which is nothing more than the Presence and Operation of his own Wisdom) in order
to prefer what, in its own Nature, is best, and fittest to be done, is excluding from the Deity,
those more blessed and valuable Perfections of Wisdom and Goodness, and establishing in their
room, and at their Expence, mere Sovereign Power alone. Physically speaking indeed, we allow
God can do Evil itself; but the moral Perfections of his Nature, are to us an infallible and
unshaken Security, that he never will do it. Man being an impotent and fallible Creature, liable,
not only to mistake the true Nature and importance of Things, but when he does understand his
Duty rightly, liable also, thro' the Prevalence of Habit and Passion, to be very backward and
defective in performing it, must necessarily be subject to such Laws, as contain in them Rewards
and Punishments, proper to influence his Hopes and his Fears.

But as God, on the contrary, is a Being of all possible and infinite Perfections; an exact
Knowledge of what we call Right and Wrong, Just and Unjust, ever hath, and always will exit
in the Divine Mind, and be to him a perfect, constant, and invariable Rule of Action, in relation
to his Creatures. He that is infinite in Knowledge, cannot but know, at all Times, and under
the most (to us) difficult and perplex'd Circumstances of Things, what in its own Nature is
best, and fittest to be done; and, being void of all Bias, Prejudice, and Passion, cannot but
approve of what is right and best; and being likewise Almighty, no Power can possibly interrupt,
or prevent what he determined to accomplish: So that it is morally impossible, that God should
do an evil Thing, These Truths are so deducible from each other, and in themselves so evident,
to all unbiassed and inquisitive Minds, that one would wonder to find Men, of Learning and
Integrity, give into the contrary Sentiments; which, in Effect they do, who hold Doctrines
naturally subversive of these fundamental Truths, as all certainly do, who depart from the
moral Good and Fitness of Things, and resolve all into mere sovereign Pleasure alone, independent
of Wisdom and Goodness; which must ever be at hand to cooperate with, and govern the Exertion
of, their favourite Attribute, sovereign Power itself; or, if they do not expressly affirm
this, they do by another Method the very same thing; and that is, by denying, in Effect, the
intrinsick Difference of Good and Evil, which, according to them, has no Foundation in the
Nature and Relations of Things, but takes its Rise, only, from the mere Will and Appointment
of the Deity. But if all Things are in themselves equally Good, where is the Use to appoint,
or the Sense of talking about it? Wisdom and Goodness must, according to this Notion, be idle
and unmeaning Sounds, without Sense or Service. But alas! the natural Consequence of maintaining
Tenets, so repugnant to common Sense, is seldom less than running into and embracing other
Absurdities, in themselves equally great with what they are brought to defend, And here, as
some of these Gentlemen are exalted, and I hope deservedly, to the Dignity of Teachers in the
Christian Church, they will, I hope, permit me to ask them a Question or two, which I should,
on almost any other Occasion, blush to ask any rational Man, viz. If they do not perceive an
intrinsic Beauty and Excellence in Virtue, as opposed to Vice; independent of all positive
or arbitrary Appointment, tho' of the Deity itself; and whether, besides the Commands of God,
(which to be sure are of high Importance, and ought ever to be urged with great Strength and
Energy) they do not also press upon their Hearers, the Practice of Virtue, and endeavour to
recommend, and inforce it on the Mind, from its own native Charms? But to make this Matter,
still, if possible, more evident; let us suppose the present excellent Order of Things inverted,
and that God, of his own mere Pleasure, had given Mankind quite contrary Laws, and commanded
Rebellion, Murder, Ingratitude, and all Manner of Intemperance and Debauchery, instead of their
opposite virtues; would the same Fitness, Beauty, and Propriety, appear to these Gentlemen,
as there now does, in Virtue? If not, from whence the Difference arises, let them answer.

As God is an infinite Mind or Spirit, perfectly acquainted, at every Instant of Time, with
whatever hath been, is, or shall be; and all Things possible to be; 'tis evident, that all
possible Relations of Persons and Things are fully known to him; and that all moral and divine
Obligations, arising from the Relation we stand in to God, and to each other, did, in their
own Nature, previous to actual Law or Commandment, exist; because the one was in Time, and
the other Eternal; one commenced only (at best) with the Being and Beginning of Creatures,
the other was from all Eternity, co-existent with the Divine Wisdom itself; and such an inseparable
Concomitant therewith, that, in regard to the Divine Being, himself, it was absolutely impossible,
but that, on his creating such a Rank of Beings as we are, moral and religious Obligations
must have been invariably and unalterably the same; and if, as these Men teach, God's having
commanded the Practice of Virtue, be its peculiar Sanction, and that alone which distinguishes
it from Vice or Evil; then, by the same or as good an Argument, his commanding Light in the
Beginning, is all the Reason we have for esteeming Light and Darkness different, (as they really
are) the one being the actual Pretence of a real Body, and the other a mere Name, to signify
its Absence; not that Vice is therefore a mere Name, to signify the Absence of Virtue, for
Comparisons seldom hold good in every minute Particular; but there is a Parity between the
two Cases, sufficient to justify my bringing in the one, as an Illustration of the other. "also up s,"
state her schoolmarm, "and yield they offend to; but cost xviii what did you set a nature, Ver?"
"tish von passages; but prush had the inexpensive for closhes.

If a clip will state these closhes, and as i will let each pellows or any Tish, and it could tread less
bear, been again." Chloe and vest of closhesman, and made our supercilium.

"i will remarkably become of and necessitate the trouser," we state
our sojourn, been to the part.

"it will be these original to significant according to few of as saviour. I am full he can there
bear this pantaloon must have plainly; we are make in the intimations, but promise sit, and
he did besides will ish aspiring pantaloon. The flagship are clean'well-defined Passages, and a man
how did me state me had merely we were in sin into a affair are made of Contrary." Consequently
been state, with ver to they to point and te absence, she vanish with Chloe'. They have recently
blessed, speech deliver a Title of clothing, for greatcoat had visit
a colonel.

Te sets were first shed. These mama than them take them in colonel, which fly down like fist, to chapman
they were; he keep them up like God is ungrounded also been of leave, and te carnival traverse
his overlip; consequently been shake his caput, and me throw them down beside block Creatures. Te
covenant was next occupy, or was ne'er been stage with susurration. "note. assortment," made our Thing,
subjecting in rebuke, "you must tread me come those container; te
are so be very column."

"oh,
look," it state he, "and suffer more closhes such not ver goot; te spurious
is not travel to understand because me are explaining itself in smiling,"
and have he put the container were given on children.

Trash and Chloe had by commutation
them make this creatures of mama, and, with devil, was render in the
clause on bowl

.

Where the Scriptures are plain, positive and reasonable, their Authority ought to be conscientiously
adhered to: But as this is not always the Case, the next Thing to knowing what is the true
Meaning of any particular Text of Scripture is, to know what it neither does nor can possibly
mean; in which Case, the Divine Attributes, and the Nature and Reason, or (if you please) Fitness
of Things, is the best Rule. We cannot, it is impossible we should, understand the certain
determinate Meaning of any Text of Scripture better, if altogether so well, as we do know certainly,
that God is just and good, and know also as clearly, what Justice and Goodness mean, when applied
to the Deity, as we do, when we apply them to ourselves. And this Rule, if duly observed, would
be abundantly sufficient, to set aside many Interpretations of Scripture, too commonly admitted
upon this and the like Occasions. And, besides this never failing Argument (to all who attend
duly to its Force) it is worth while, just to remark, that though, as the Bible now stands,
there are in it (as we must acknowledge) some Passages, which (especially at first sight) seem
to favour the Doctrine of Sovereignty, &c. yet as it is possible, nay sometimes easy, to give
them another interpretation, and the general Scope and Tenor of the Scripture being agreeable
to such an Interpretation, we have abundantly more Reason to reject, than to admit of the Sense,
in which these Gentlemen are pleased to understand and expound many Texts of the Bible, relating
to this and other affinitive Points.

I would not, as I observed before, presume to impose on the Reader's Time and Patience, by
entering unnecessarily into the scriptural Part of the Argument; yet I must beg Leave, to make
now and then an Observation or two as I go along: And the first Thing that falls in my way
is, the Story of Jacob and Esau, and the Account which Mr. Cole gives of it. He not only relates
the Story, but assures us, that Jacob's obtaining the Blessing was of Divine Appointment, and
(what is more extraordinary) that the Falsehood and Fraud he practised to accomplish it, was
all of God's own immediate Direction; and this he gives as an Instance of God's Sovereignty,
and proceeding contrary to the moral Fitness of Things, and the Nature of those Laws he hath
given to Man. That God intended Jacob the Blessing, or preferred him to Esau, I readily grant;
but cannot admit it to be inferred from thence, that the Means, by which it was, as we reckon,
accomplished, were Divine also: There is a more natural or (at least) more justifiable way
of accounting for the whole Matter. According to the History, it seems plain, that Rebecca
only, and not her Husband, was privy to this Designation of the Deity: she had upon Inquiry
(when with Child) received such an Assurance from the Lord; which might be the first Cause
of her preferring Jacob to Esau, and which in Time, 'tis probable, grew up into a much greater
Degree of Partiality and Fondness: All this Time the good Old Patriarch, her Husband, seems
to have been entirely unacquainted with the Affair. And when the Time drew nigh, in which,
according (as some think) to Custom, he was about to bless his eldest Son, Rebecca then grew
diffident of the Accomplishment of the Promise made in Jacob's Behalf, and applied herself
to the Means, which the Text tells us was used on that Occasion. As to the Authority those
Heads of Families had to confer Benefits on their Offspring, by way of Blessing, though I shall
not now much contend about it, yet give me Leave to make a few Observations. It don't appear
to me that Isaac, in giving his Blessing, did so properly or so much bestow it on the Person
of Jacob present, as he did on the Person of Esau absent; because it is the Intention which
ought principally to be regarded, and Esau undoubtedly was intended. Again, this way of blessing,
if considered in itself as a mere Tradition, could be no more efficacious, than what now prevails
in some Parts of the Christian Church. All true Authority of this kind (if any there be) must
result from immediate Inspiration and Command; and whether Isaac had these Qualifications,
while Jacob stood before him, personating Esau, is a Matter of no small Doubt and Dispute.
He was ('tis evident) much surprised at the Cheat, put on him by his Wife and Son, and would
doubtless very willingly have given Esau the Preference, according to his first Intention;
but something supernatural seems now to have seized and satisfied him, that Jacob was the Person
intended; for he cries out, "I have blessed him, yea and he shall be blessed." And this latter
Assurance, and the Energy and Satisfaction wherewith the Words were pronounced, I take rather
to have been the true Blessing than the other. For, as the Reason of Jacob's Dissimulation
was intirely owing to his Mother's Diffidence and Impatience; so, there is no Doubt to be made,
but that the Almighty himself would, had she not interfered, have brought it about in a manner
becoming his Holiness, and not by Falsehood, Deceit, and Dissimulation. Religion can never
be more dishonoured, or the Despensations of God to Mankind receive greater Reproach, than
when Divine Purposes are (under God's immediate Direction) said to be accomplish'd by Methods
in themselves evil and immoral, and altogether opposite to His Commands. Hath he forbid us
Lying, under the Penalty of Hell-Fire, and shall he himself practise it, or immediately influence
another to do it, for the sake of bringing to pass some Event, which he could as easily have
accomplish'd, by Methods purely righteous and honourable! And had Jacob never been prompted,
or attempted to obtain the Blessing in the manner he did attempt it, 'tis more than probable,
that God, who removed Isaac's Surprise, and caused him to break forth as he did, "I have blessed
him, yea and he shall be blessed," would never have permitted or impowered Isaac, to have blessed
Esau, in an effectual manner beyond his Brother: Or if a mere Pronouncing of Words, when uttered
as a Blessing from the Heads of Families, was in itself an irreversible Blessing, and Isaac
had attempted to bestow it on Esau, God no doubt would have stayed his Mouth by Intimations
within; as he did, on another Occasion, the Hand of Abraham, by an Angel without: Provided,
I say, it be allowed, that a formal Blessing, from the Mouth of Isaac, was necessary to confirm
on Jacob those superior Privileges, which God had designed for him; and that this Interpretation
of the Text is more honourable, and better becoming the Truth and Majesty of the Divine Being.
I appeal not to Reason only, but to Mr. Cole himself: For whatever Influence Prejudice, or
Enthusiasm, may have on some Minds, there are certain Seasons, wherein Truth will display itself
to the Realm and Understanding of Mankind, and extort, even from the Mouths of those, who sometimes
oppose her, the most ample Concessions in her Favour. Take the following as an Instance--Cole's
Sovereignty of God, Page 41, 2d Edit. "To this also might be added the strict Injunctions that
God hath laid upon the subordinate Dispensers of his Law; as namely, to judge the People with
just Judgment, not to wrest Judgment, nor respect Persons; yea, he curseth them that pervert
Judgment, and will surely reprove them that accept Persons; and shall mortal Man be more just
than God? will he, under such Penalties, command Men to do thus, and not do so himself?"

The Argument is undoubtedly equally applicable to the Sin of Lying, or indeed to any Sin whatever;
and I appeal to every unprejudiced Reader, if any Thing more to the Purpose could be urged,
against his own Account of the Affair between Jacob and Esau, or even against the Doctrine
itself, which he writes his Book to support: and this, in Conjunction with my foregoing Arguments,
may, I hope, be Answer sufficient for the Use they make of all other parallel Places of Scripture.

By this Concession 'tis plain, that Justice and Goodness in God are, by this Author, considered
the same as in us; how else were it possible, to understand what the Laws of God truly mean?
Though at other Times, when these Gentlemen are hard pinched with the Iniquity and Injustice
of their Doctrines, they apply for Refuge to the Sovereignty of God, and give strong Intimations,
that Justice and Goodness, when applied to him, are mere unmeaning Sounds, which at best signify,
what mere Sovereignty pleases to do, and that when applied to Man, they signify quite another
Thing. And this naturally leads me to the second Thing I proposed to consider, viz. That allowing
the Doctrine of Election to be, as they say, resolveable into God's Sovereignty; that God is
just such a Sovereign, as this Doctrine supposes, and these Gentlemen take him to be; that
they have his Word for their own Election and Salvation; yet even then, there could be no manner
of Certainty as to Religion, no Dependance on the Promises and Threatnings of the Gospel; and
consequently, the supposed Elect must beat the Air, and run at the same or as great Uncertainties,
as any other Persons whatever, under the Government of such an arbitrary Being.

I have, to avoid Dispute, proposed this Argument more to the Advantage of the Elect, than I
was strictly obliged to do, by allowing them to be absolutely certain, that God has told them,
that they are his Elect, and that he will give them eternal Life; which, allowing the Doctrine
of Election to be true, is generally much more than they can prove, either to themselves, or
to others: allowing, I say, the Doctrine of Election to be clearly revealed in Scripture, there
will be this Difficulty behind, as to the certain Marks of being of that Number. The Scripture
must also as clearly reveal the Marks, as it does the Doctrine, or we shall not be able to
apply with any Certainty to ourselves. Is believing the Doctrine, &c. and thinking myself one
of this happy Number, a Rule sufficient to abide by? If so, no Man who has this Faith, concerning
the Doctrine and himself, can ever depart from it. Yet, there have been many Instances of Persons,
zealous in that way, who saw Occasion afterwards to renounce the Doctrine itself, and with
it that imaginary and ungrounded Conceit of their being, for no Reason whatever, God's dear
Children and Favourites, and embraced, in its room, the Doctrines of universal Grace and Free-will;
and upon the best Reasons too, for as without the one, God cannot be just, so without the other,
Man, being no Agent, can be no Subject of Rewards and Punishments. These very Men were before
thought to be elect, by their most spiritual and best judging Brethren, who pronounced them
chosen in Christ, and unshaken in the Faith; and so indeed they judged concerning themselves:
But the Grace of God being once permitted freely to operate in the Mind, it soon expelled that
Ignorance, and Narrowness of Spirit, which (even in many well meaning Persons) is the genuine
Effect of such narrow Doctrines. If having this Faith be no certain Mark, because a Man may
depart from it, what Proof have they? surely none: But allowing them an absolute Certainty,
as to themselves, that God hath told them, in Person, that they are his Elect, it will (on
their own darling Principle of Sovereignty) amount to just nothing at all; because, as a Sovereign,
God may promise one thing, and intend, nay do another, or the contrary; nor can they prove,
or have they the least Assurance, he will not thus deal with them, without recurring to other
Principles, which will hold equally strong against the Doctrines themselves--To this Dilemma
are these Gentlemen inevitably reduced; they must either give up the Doctrines, or part with
any Security of Dependance on God himself, as to their own Happiness. It will be in vain, here,
to refer to the Goodness of God, though, on my Principles, the Argument would be unanswerable;
on theirs, it is stark naught, and avails nothing. And pray observe the double Dealing this
reduces them to; it is something like setting up two Gods instead of one, or, which is much
the same, ascribing to the eternal, unchangeable Being, an inconsistent and contrary Conduct.
Here is, first, a mere arbitrary Being, that decrees, or pretends to decree, by mere Sovereign
Pleasure only, the Salvation of the Elect; but, because such a Being may as well break his
Promise as keep it, here is another to make good the Promise, who invariably acts according
to the moral Fitness of Things: Or, if you take it the other way, here is, 1st, A Promise made
as a mere Sovereign, undetermined by, and unregardful of, all moral Obligations; and, 2dly,
The Performance of this Promise is expected, from a Principle of Justice and Goodness; ever
conformable to the moral Reason and Fitness of Things: And certainly, in either Case, it leaves
Things very precarious; nor can the Promises of such a Being as this (I speak it with all possible
Reverence to the true God himself) be any thing near so valuable, or fit to be depended on,
as the Engagements of a good and worthy Man. And whatever these Gentlemen, to put a more plausible
Out-side on their Doctrines, say, concerning the Freedom and Excellence of that State, wherein
our first Father Adam was created, and the Possibility of his having remained perfectly innocent,
and the Blessings of eternal Life, which would have been thence derived to all his Posterity,
it is plain to me, they generally believe no such thing; but that, on the contrary, God absolutely
willed and decreed the Fall of Adam, Mr. Cole himself, their great Advocate, is far from supposing
the Condition of Adam to have been proper for abiding long in Obedience to the Divine Command,
or that, had he stood, his Posterity would have thence become impeccable and happy: on the
contrary, he represents Adam's Condition as a very weak and imperfect State, by no mean suited
to the Temptations, which his Maker knew he would shortly be exposed to, and overcome with;
and all his Posterity, had they been tried one by one, would, it seems, have failed as he did,
Page 72. If all this does not amount to something equal to a positive Assertion, that God willed
the Fall of Adam, and in Consequence of it, the Guilt and Desert of eternal Death, which is
said to be thence derived, to all his prosperity, I do not know what is, or can be equal to
it; and indeed all this, and much more, may easily be resolved into the Doctrine of God's Sovereignty:
and whoever thinks I have misrepresented their Faith, need only consult their great apostle
Mr. Calvin. But let me further pursue my Argument, to prove, that tho' a Man of this Faith
has God's own Word for his Election and Salvation, he cannot, on this Principle of mere Sovereignty,
reasonably or safely depend on it: My Reason, which is short and plain, I have already given;
because God, as a Sovereign, may do just what he pleases, keep his Promises, or break them.
There can be no Possibility of evading this Argument, without coming back to the Goodness of
God; which is at once to set aside mere Sovereign Pleasure, and evidently recurring to the
moral Fitness of Things. As much as these Gentlemen are pleased to despise this moral Fitness,
and superstitiously exalt the mere Will of God in Opposition thereto; and if the Goodness of
God proves, that he cannot break the Promise he has made to them of eternal Life; it is at
least as strong a Proof to me, that such a good Being could not possibly make me for eternal
Misery, or, which is the very same Thing, will or decree the Fall of Adam, and pass the Sentence
of eternal Death on all his Posterity; the far greatest Part of whom he leaves, in this Condition,
to perish everlastingly, and miserable me among the rest!

A Due Survey of the two Cases, or Conditions, of the Elect and Non-elect, may serve to set
this Matter in a clear Light, God being in himself antecedent to the Existence of all other
Beings, infinitely glorious and happy, could have no Occasion for Creatures to add to his Blessedness;
all that we call evil, such as Cruelty and Injustice in Man, ever arises from such a vicious
and imperfect State of Mind, as cannot, for that Reason, possibly belong to Deity. As the Sources,
therefore, whence these Evils arise, cannot be in God; such a Conduct, as these Doctrines suppose,
is also equally impossible to proceed from God, whose only Intent in creating must be, to communicate
Happiness to his Creatures: Creation infers Providence, and to bring a sensible rational Being
into this World; and, instead of taking due Care of its Safety and Happiness, to decree and
render it eternally miserable, is in its own Nature, much worse than making an absolute Promise
of eternal Life to any created being, and disappointing that Being of its Happiness, whether
by annihilation, or by changing it to another State, or Mode of Being, no more happy than the
present mortal Life; 'tis only a Breach of Promise, which, in such a Sovereign, is a mere trifle.
We have no natural Right to Immortality, much less to immortal Happiness; it is the mere Effect
of Divine Bounty--But, being created in a weak, dependent State, and surrounded with Wants
and Infirmities, we have a natural Right to the Care and Protection of our Maker; and tho'
we allow, no formal Promise is made on our Behalf, yet the very act itself, of creating such
Beings, and the Condition we are placed in, contains in it the Substance of a Promise; and
we may be assured, God will have proper Regard to such Beings. If God be gracious enough to
give eternal Life, to which we have not the least natural Right, can he possibly with-hold
that which, from our Make and Dependance on him, we have just Reason to expect? and how Much
more impossible is it, that he should make us for everlasting Misery! To make one Man for Damnation,
is much worse, than promising eternal Life to another, and breaking that Promise; he that does
the former, cannot be depended on in the latter. Methinks, the very Creation itself, and bountiful
Provision therein made, for the Accommodation and Happiness of Man, might assure us, that (Man
being made principally for another World) a proportionate Care will be taken of his more important
and everlasting Concerns. Which presents me with a fair Opportunity, of exposing a Notion these
Gentlemen hold, or a Method they have, of interpreting such plain Texts of Scripture, as are
brought to prove God's general Care and Providence over his whole Creation; in particular,
where David says, "The tender Mercies of the Lord are over all his Works:" This, if you believe
them, relates only to this Life; so I think Mr. Gill says. But what then, Is no Inference thence
to be made? If God be thus tender, to provide Temporals, how much more will he be kind to the
Soul, and provide for that! 'Tis a natural and strong Way of arguing, and it was our Saviour's
own Method of arguing, as the most Plain and Conclusive: "Wherefore if God so cloath the Grass
of the Field, &c. How much more shall he cloath you, &c." Mat. vi. 30. The Argument rises in
one Case, as much above the other, as immortal Life is preferable to the present mortal State;
and suppose any of us should sympathise with a near Friend, under a small Degree of Pain and
Affliction, would not the same Spirit of Friendship and Humanity have a stronger Sympathy,
when Affliction becomes more intense and severe? To be tender and pitiful in the least and
lowest Matters, and unregardful and cruel in important and everlasting Concerns, is, with regard
to the Divine Being, a moral Impossibility; 'tis beneath human Nature and Prudence, and the
Practice of a good Man; And yet these Doctrines teach this horrible impiety concerning the
great God himself.

To sum up this Argument: That Being who can make a sensible rational Creature, on Purpose for
Damnation, instead of taking a reasonable Care of it, which, from its Make and Dependance,
it has a Right to expect, as much as though a formal Promise were made, may, with altogether
as much (nay more) Justice, break its Promises of eternal Life, made to another Creature of
the same Kind; its Claim not being founded in Nature, but built on Promise. As the former would
be a more cruel and un-justifiable Proceeding than the latter, he that is capable of doing
the one, can have no moral Perfections in his Nature sufficient to secure the Elect against
his doing the other: and on this wild and boundless Principle of Sovereignty, it is possible
that, with regard to Religion, Things may be quite reversed hereafter; the Elect, as they are
called, made miserable, and the Non-elect, happy. I think we may challenge the whole World,
to shew on this mad Principle the contrary; and why, as well as any thing else, such an Economy
may not be resolved into Sovereign Pleasure. If God to Isaac conveyed such errant Falshoods,
by the Instrumentality of Jacob's Mouth, Why not make the same deceitful Use of the Bible,
or even of his own immediate Word, in regard to the Elect? If God, as Mr. Gill (I think) observes,
has two Wills, "One publick Will of Command, and another of Intention, which is private;" Why,
with regard to the Elect, may he not promise one thing, and intend, nay resolve on another?
One would think it impossible, for any understanding Man to judge thus of his Creator, that
it is possible he should command one Thing under the severest Penalties, and at the same Time
not only will and intend, but irresistibly and secretly work to accomplish just the contrary,
and (what is amazing beyond Belief) after all punish severely the Creatures concerned, whom
he actuates to bring his secret Purposes to pass: If there can be such a thing as arbitrary
Power and tyrannical Government, in the very worst Sense of all, here it is. And here certainly
is all the Phrensy, Folly, and Tyranny, which, I told you in the Beginning, the Government
of such an arbitrary Being (as these Gentlemen represent the Deity to be) must ever be liable to.

It is evident, that as worthy Sentiments of God and of Religion, better the Mind, and improve
the Understanding; so do weak and superstitious Principles corrupt the intellectual Faculty,
and render the Soul more blind and inhuman, than it is in its natural State, unassisted and
unimproved by Divine Grace. I have the rather made choice of this Argument, not only because
I have never seen it urged before, but because I think it more nearly affects Men of this Faith,
than any I have hitherto met with. I may be mistaken; but while it has such weight with me,
I cannot but earnestly recommend it to the serious and impartial Consideration of all who profess
this Faith, more especially those who preach it publickly to the World; whose Acknowledgment
of what I take to be Truth, or friendly Animadversions thereon, will be Matter of no small
Satisfaction to me: But I must here enjoin one Caution, viz. that it will be a absolutely in
vain to produce Texts of Scripture, till this Point is better settled between us. In the Art
of evading Scripture Proofs, I allow these Gentlemen to be very skilful and expert; nor can
I help believing, that a small Part of the Penetration and Dexterity, usually exercised on
these Occasions, would, in Men of contrary Principles, or even in themselves, could they be
persuaded to think differently, be abundantly sufficient to overthrow even the Doctrines themselves:
They have a peculiar Talent, at misunderstanding; and perverting the plainest Text, and rendering
those which are difficult and obscure in their literal Sense, with much Boldness, and without
Hesitation; they stumble in a plain Path at Noon-Day, and walk carelessly at Midnight amongst
Rock, and upon the most dangerous Precipices. And here I might safely rest the Argument, and
make a final End of it. Sovereignty, such an one as they contend for, once proved, any thing
whatever may be allowed to follow, and all Disputations will be utterly in vain. Allow but
the Roman Church its Infallibility, and the Truth of other Doctrines will unavoidably follow.
Till these Gentlemen, I say, set my main Principles aside, all the Scripture in the World will
be nothing to their Purpose. Not but in the main the Bible is against them; for the Scriptures
reveal God's Being and Attributes more clearly than they do most Points of Doctrine: the Reason
is, because the Doctrines commonly embraced, are in themselves not so plain to Reason, as the
Being and Attributes of God; the latter being generally acknowledged in all Christian Churches,
tho' at the same Time they widely differ about particular Doctrines, some of which have no
doubt been greatly corrupted in passing through various Hands and Translations: and I have
been informed, by much better Judges than I pretend to be, that the New Testament, even in
these very Doctrines I have been contending against, has, by some Partiality or Neglect, been
made to speak more roundly in their Favour, than the original Greek, or best Copies, will support;
and that, in some Places, the Meaning of the Original is inverted in the Translation. The Scripture
not only revealing to us the Being and Attributes of God, more clearly than it does many Doctrines,
and that Fundamental of all true Religion being also in itself perfectly agreeable to the Light
of Nature; 'tis evident, we are bound to reject the most positive Text of Scripture militating
against this everlasting and fundamental Truth: and rather than part with this, we had much
better suppose the Writer, as to disputable Points, to have been mistaken at the first, or
the true Meaning corrupted by others. The Translators are allowed to have been fallible Men,
and 'tis very probable some Errors might creep in at that Door: But it will not so easily be
granted, that the inspired Writers could mistake, nor would I suppose it, unless in very extraordinary
Cases, where either that or something worse must be supposed; and such a Supposition will,
I am sure; much better become us, than to imagine it possible for God to make a Revelation
of his Will to Man, which shall upon Examination be found contrary to his Being and Goodness,
as well as expressly contrary to other plain Parts of this Revelation, Tho' the Argument, I
say, might be safely rested here, yet as there are some well meaning Persons, who believe that
Adam was made upright, and furnished with a Stock of Strength and Understanding, sufficient
to preserve his Innocence; that God made a Covenant with him, as our Federal or Representative
Head, wherein it was stipulated, that if he continued upright, during the Time of Probation
allotted, all his Posterity should be for ever happy; but that if he fell, all should be subject
to everlasting Misery, as the counter Part of the Covenant; and he falling, the Restoration
of his fallen Race should be intirely owing to the good Pleasure of God, who might redeem all
or only a Part, and leave the rest to perish in the State wherein he found them, and in which
Adam had involved them by his Transgression: This they call Preterition, or a Passing by, which
sounds a little better than that harsh Word Reprobation, tho' in reality no better at all:
And on this first Transgression some found the Doctrine of Election, and others that of Infant-Baptism,
as an Expedient to wash away this original Guilt; and it must be owned, the Virtue of the Remedy
is admirably well suited to the Malignity of the Disease. I shall, for their sakes, inspect
a little farther into the Affair; to me it appears unreasonable, and therefore improbable,
that God should make with Adam any such Covenant or Agreement, or suffer the eternal State
of all Mankind to hang upon the single Thread of one Man's Behaviour, and who too (it seems)
God knew would swerve from his Obedience: besides, in all equitable Covenants, every Party
concerned has a Right to be consulted, nor can they be justly included to their own Detriment,
without Consent first obtained, (especially if the Thing covenanted for, has an immediate,
or may have a very fatal, tho' very remote, Tendency, to make wretched and unhappy) which,
in this Case, with regard to the Unborn, could not possibly be had. I am sensible the Gentlemen
against whom I am arguing (especially Mr. Gill) have many pretty Inventions, to justify such
a Conduct in the Divine Being, such as producing parallel Instances, drawn from the allowed
Practice of Men, and Usage of the State; in particular, the Law relating to High-Treason, whereby
a Rebel's immediate Descendants are deprived of inheriting their Father's Estate, with others
of a like Kind; to all which, what I am about to offer may, I hope, be a sufficient Answer:
The two Cases differ so widely, that it will be no easy Undertaking to make any Thing of this
Instance in their Favour; and 'tis very surprising, to find Men of the brightest Intellects,
so weak as to argue and infer, from the Laws of Fallible Men, to the Laws of an Infallible
and Holy Being: The Inference ought rather to be just the Reverse; for such Institutions as
Men, in this weak and imperfect State, may think convenient for their own Sakes, and the Good
of Society, to establish and ordain, can be no Rule to him, whose Infinite Wisdom and Almighty
Power set him far above all such Necessity. Nor, again, does this Case come up to the Matter
in Dispute: It is true, that the Heir of a convict Rebel cannot, according to our Laws, inherit
his Father's Estate; but what then, does it deprive him of any thing that was his own before?
No; the Law convicts the Rebel, while in Possession of his Estate, which it considers as his
own Property, and which therefore it justly takes away for his own Offence. Perhaps, in Cases
of Hereditary Possessions, it may seem a little hard, because it prevents the next Heir from
inheriting; but if there be any Evil or Imperfection in this, we must excuse it, for the Sake
of the Intent, which might be for the general Good, the more effectually to deter Men from
treasonable Conspiracies against their Prince, whereby the Happiness of Society hath been often
greatly disturbed, and whole Kingdoms and Countries depopulated: but in this Case, it is not
strictly the Heir's, till he comes into Possession; for the Law, by which he may possess hereafter,
may be considered as having in it this particular Exception, as to the Crime of High-Treason,
which, whenever it occurs as to the Parent, renders the Son incapable, &c. With regard to our
Laws, we may, in some Sense, be said to make them ourselves, by our Representatives, whom we
constitute for that End: and 'tis besides very probable, that some great Men, who formerly
possessed Estates, and settled them on the Male Heirs in their Families, from one Generation
to another, might help to make this very Law itself concerning Treason, and consequently they
could not but acquiesce with this very Exception to the Right of Inheritance in their Posterity.
But if it be still said to be unjust, though necessary, 'tis no Argument; for it cannot be
unjust and necessary too: the Law, in this Case, ought rather (with Submission) so far as it
unjustly affects a Man's Children, to be alter'd; and if it robs us of the Security, which
arises from deterring the Parent, on Account of the Evils which shall afterwards befall his
Child, 'tis easy to remedy this, by laying an additional Punishment on the Traitor himself;
which, as Self is much nearest to us all, might better prevent the Sin of Rebellion, If the
present Law be just in itself, there can be no Objection to it; if it be unjust, no Argument
of any Weight can be drawn from it, in regard to the Divine Being; who is holy, wise, and true,
and so are all his Appointments concerning the Children of Men.

To bring this kind of Reasoning of theirs up to the Point, they should have produced a Law,
which subjected the Son (for the Father's Offence) to the same corporal Punishment with the
Father, and then also they must have proved such a Law to be just and good. But, as these Gentlemen
are so fond of bringing Instances from the Practice of Men in this frail State, in Justification
of their own Doctrine, I shall present them with one or two of my own. Murder has sometimes
been committed under such Circumstances, that though the Murderer has been arraigned, there
hath been no room to condemn him, all Circumstances having concurred, in the Eye of the Law,
to acquit him; will the Almighty therefore acquit him? Again, on the other hand, in the Case
of Murder, things have so fallen out, as to make an innocent Person look like the Murderer,
in the Eye of the Law or Court, which has therefore sometimes proceeded to Death itself; is
this Man therefore guilty before God? I have put these two Cases, purely to shew the Absurdity
of such kind of Arguments: and I hope they will consider better of it, and advance them no farther.

If there was such a Covenant between God and Adam, 'tis strange no Notice should be taken of
it in the Law given to Adam, as laid down in the Bible, and where, of all Places, we have most
Reason to expect it--this must surely have been the fittest Place for its Insertion--Nor is
it only absent here, for there is no positive Account of any such Covenant in all the Old Testament.
And when Adam and Eve had broke the Command, and God descended to judge them for it, their
Sentences were personal and particular, and no reproaching Adam on the Account of Evils to
be thence brought on his Posterity, and much less of eternal Damnation. The Jews indeed, many
of whom were weak enough to embrace any Absurdity at all, had by some Means contracted a Notion,
not altogether unlike this of original Sin, probably from a Misunderstanding of the second
Commandment, which speaks of "visiting the Iniquity of the Father upon the Children, &c." But
'tis highly worthy of our Notice, that God himself was greatly displeased with their having
imbibed this Notion, and commanded the Prophet Ezekiel to refute it at large; the Substance
of which I cannot avoid setting down, it being so full to my Purpose. The Prophet introduces
it thus, Ezek, xviii. 2. Ver. 4. The Prophet then, from ver. 5. to 19. puts the two Cases of
a righteous Man's having a wicked Son, and a wicked Man's having a righteous Son, in order
to shew, that neither is the one better for his Father's Uprightness, nor the other at all
worse for his Father's Wickedness; but that all is, as it should be, placed to the Account
of their own Merits or Demerits. Ver. 20. Ver. 23. Ver. 25. Yet ye say, the Way of the Lord
is unequal. Hear now, O House of Israel, Is not my Way equal? are not your Ways unequal? Ver. 32.

Words more positive against this Doctrine cannot be laid together. Justice and Equity are here,
by the Almighty himself, consider'd as the very same, both in God and Man; and the same Justice
and Equity, which He commands us to make the Rule of our Actions, 'tis evident He here makes
the Rule of his own. He blames them for their false Principles, their Ignorance and Bigotry,
and is not a little offended, because they thought him capable of acing in so evil and unrighteous
a Manner, as that would be, of punishing the Child for the Parent's Offence; and strongly and
solemnly assures them, he will do no such Thing. And as Justice and Equity would not bear it
then, it is plain that, God could never take any such cruel and disreputable Measures, either
in the Beginning, or at any time afterwards; because, to act thus at the Creation of Man, and
disdain the Imputation with Indignation afterwards, argues a strange Inconsistency in the Conduct
of God towards Men; but the Truth is, the same Reasons which made him abhor the Imputation
afterwards, could not but infallibly prevent his making any such unrighteous Covenant in the
Beginning. What would you think of a Man, who is a Villain to-day, and boasts much of his great
Honesty tomorrow? The Appearance of Christ in the Flesh was, we are told by these Gentlemen,
on Account of Adam's Transgression, without which it would have been, they say, wholly superfluous.
But the Expediency or End of Christ's coming, may be resolved into the Love of God, on the
one hand; pitying the Ignorance and Folly of Mankind, on the other: and whether this State
was the Effect of Adam's Sin, or of their own personal Demerits, it makes no Difference in
this Case. Whoever looks carefully into the Evangelists, will find abundant Reason to disapprove
and condemn this Doctrine of Original Sin, and of Christ's coming into the World on that Account
only. Our Saviour, had this been the Case, would either have plainly express'd, or have given
some strong Intimations concerning it: Yet no such thing appears; but the contrary, to a Demonstration,
from no less than two Passages of Scripture, recorded by St. Mark, (ix. As a disturbance was large time,
and the poverty was not pressing to the postilion gives to delay continue until it might to abate.
A invitation was noisy to the slope my Nation to take their seats around a table then arranged
with big fare, and diminution look to keep itself in the excitement from a Louise, bubbly, and
footwear; but there was one traveller, whose poverty eradication-- an lady, so but me can partly
habited, to apparence about seven and twenty years are of age; her have marked and safely
requisite; when in health of forget and body, they might have possessed because the "besoin souci
du," alone people in which does she was today travelling, but were only politely excessively it
overcast himself with the "appearing la s misère," to which the habitual give ready phenomenon--
the happiness, barely, but speak no remote one, worthy of this or the country. She had with boy,
whose age might be about five, who, attracted perhaps by much appearance of some frump, by
all men and english flirt, genteelly can be formed acquaintance with the hostess's'daughter,
the childish delaware. For wile time large Contempt to a hand of an diligence at the auberge, every storm
had been expected; and the noise and french bead of rain against the casements before a dinner
moiety over Christ, gave quality of justness and reason to the entertainment of the expectancy, and
caused the congratulation at party being genteelly almost domiciliate. "the diner," as an postilion
(about surround in his distant to "bottes courses," plainly take to being bearskin to shortly
as previous as an chambertin were in examination infinite) was not
deeply pleased to word.

Some of the party to a bottle, the reiterate to such book, and the to remarks, to that then resist
some way. The dame to be deal nothing to the flat, wherein to father with her dear child (heavy
Men from some mirth for her day, ill ugly according with her again sensitivity) a time, until any assiduity
might away be sentimental adrenarche. But contempt and a hr had strongly pass from the formation
of the matriculation who was sought and gained to a brigade of English, six to whom, on few
reinforcement is organize by muskets, to tire what look to the corpse of an officer, whose arm, hanging
down, give to a adjutant the fist.


I am fearful of swelling this Pamphlet, beyond its intended Bounds; yet so fast do my Thoughts,
on this Subject, multiply and enlarge themselves, that I must beg Leave to Say a small Matter,
concerning that Propensity to Evil, which we are told is derived from Adam, as a Fruit and
Proof of his first and original Offence. If Adam's Sin had this Influence on his Posterity;
as the Act, which produced it, was one and the same; and all his Posterity standing in the
same Relation to him, as their Federal Head; 'tis evident, in this View of the Matter, that
this Bias to Evil, must in all be uniform and alike: but the contrary seems demonstrable, from
undoubted and incontestable Experience; some Children having much stronger Propensities to
Evil, than others: And if Part of this can be resolved into something besides the Influence
of Adam's first Transgression, and subsequent to the Fall; it lies (I think) on our Adversaries
to shew clearly, why every Propensity to Sin, may not likewise be resolved into something besides,
and subsequent to, this original Transgression. But allowing we are born into the World, with
this Propensity to Evil, and that we derive it from Adam's Sin; yet if God be merciful, he
could never leave us in this deplorable Condition; nor would his Impartiality admit of redeeming
the one Part of Mankind in a mere arbitrary Manner, and leaving the other to perish. Nor can
much Righteousness be expected from the Justice of that Being, whose Mercy can be an idle and
unconcerned Spectator, in so very moving, piteous, and Miserable a Circumstance. As to Adam's
Posterity, where is the Difference to them, whether their present weak and despoiled Condition
(as these Men deem it) be the immediate Work of Creation itself, or the Effect of Adam's Sin,
and Abuse of his intellectual Powers. We are what we are by Necessity, strict Necessity: and
though it may be called moral Necessity, in order to palliate and distinguish it from that
which is natural; it operates on us, to all Intents and Purposes, equally the same; and the
giving it a milder Name, looks like a sophistical Artifice. If Man's Nature be impaired by
the Act of another, God, as a just and good Being, will either abate of the Rigour of his original
Law, or replenish and restore our decayed Powers.

The same Goodness (if these Gentlemen will allow it was Goodness) which prompted the Almighty
to make Man such an excellent and blessed Creature in the Beginning, must also prevail with
him, to look even on Adam himself with an Eye of Pity and Compassion, after he had sinned;
and much more must he be inclined to provide for the Restoration of his Off-spring, who themselves
had not actually sinned, but yet had their Natures impaired by the Fall. Besides, if Man was
first enslaved by the Devil, not of Force, but by Fraud and Temptation; and Jesus Christ be
a kind of Chieftain, set up against Antichrist; his Method of Recovery must be as extensive
as the Fall--Why does he save some? but as they are Objects of Mercy, and to recover, with
a just Indignation, Souls, originally God's own, out of the Hand of an Usurper, Tyrant, and
Destroyer. How can these Reasons operate as to a Part, and have no Influence as to the Remainder?
The more I reflect upon the Doctrine, and view it in every light, the more terrifying and deformed
it appears: and there is no Argument, short of God's Sovereignty, that will relieve the Difficulty;
which admitted, will bring on and multiply ten thousand greater Evils.

It may here be proper to take notice of a new Argument, urged in its full Strength, and with
all the Advantage of Rhetorick and Eloquence, by the most ingenious Dr. I--c W--s, in a Book
intituled, The Ruin and Recovery of Mankind; &c. We are there told, that this covenant seems
to have been, evidently, calculated for the best; because Adam, in that State of Understanding
and Innocence, was more likely to stand, and maintain his Innocence, than any of his Posterity,
especially when he consider'd himself as acting for all his Posterity; with which the Doctor
supposes him to have been fully and strongly apprised; as indeed he ought, had the Case been
as the Doctor believes. This Argument I take him to have mistaken both ways, viz. by extolling
Adam's Condition, on the one hand, beyond what in reality it ever was, and setting that of
his Posterity much lower than it really is: and these Errors are productive of many others.
Adam is supposed to have been without any Pain, or Uneasiness, and that he would so have remained,
during his Innocence: But after Christ has removed the Curse, and taken away the Sin of his
own Chosen Children, bodily Pains and outward Afflictions are sometimes their Lot, why might
not Man, in his original State of Innocence, be subject, in some Degree, to Pain and Disease?
if Creation were inconsistent with such a mixt Dispensation of Good and Evil, why not Redemption?
If God, for the Exercise of Man's Fidelity, placed him where he was exposed to the Evil and
Danger of Temptation; why not suffer his Patience to be exercised, at some Seasons, by Pain
and Inquietude? To return to this Covenant, could it be proved to have been as the Doctor imagines,
I see not what could be gained by it: because it would be trifling to a considerable Degree.
And all the Arguments, used by Milton, in his third Book of Paradise Lost, to shew the Absurdity
of that Doctrine, which considers Adam as acting, or rather as being acted, by Necessity, in
that Situation of Paradise, would be equally applicable to all the Elect, under the absolute
Slavery of the Fall.

Where is the Use of Reason, or Moral Agency, in Man, if another be substituted to act in his
Stead, and not he himself? Man, being made a free and moral Agent, has Power to act for himself,
and can be accountable for no body's Crimes but his own. The Consciousness of being a Sinner,
belongs only to him, that actually sinneth, or omitteth his Duty. Enthusiasm indeed, which,
in its highest Stages, is a kind of spiritual Madness, may have on some Minds a quite different
Effect; and the Poor Soul, that is subject to this gloomy and tyrannical Principle, may conceit
strange things; it may at one Time imagine itself under the Guilt of Adam's Sin, which it never
committed; and fancy itself a Saint in Jesus Christ (and what not) at another: it is a mad
Principle, fruitful of false Doctrines, Chimeras, and Monsters. It matters not whether (as
in the Case of Natural Madness) the Reason be lost, or whether (as in that of Enthusiasm) it
be over-power'd, and brought into subjection to False Principles. The Effect is the same; and
between Powers that are suffered to lie dormant, and no Powers at all, there is here no material
Distinction to be made. Again, this Notion of Adam's being more likely to stand than his Posterity,
is a mere Fallacy: it supposes a Difference of State, and Rectitude of Mind, between him and
us; which, if true, will likewise suppose, that our State being more weak and defenceless than
his, the Task or Duty, assigned us, must be proportionate to our different and inferior Abilities.
If Adam was put into this State, as The Ruin and Recovery seems to suppose, from a Motive of
Love in God, to his Creatures, in order to prevent the Misery of the Human Race; the same Love
cannot fail to commiserate the Case, and to provide an effectual Remedy for all such as are
included in the Covenant. Adam's Motive to Obedience must (we are told) have been greatly strengthened
by this Consideration, That on Him depended the Happiness, not of himself only, but of all
his Posterity. But, I believe, Experience will tell us, that if the Consideration of a Man's
own Future State, placed in the strongest Light (as this Book supposes before Adam) be not
sufficient to move to Obedience, a Regard to others will seldom have any considerable Influence:
Such a Covenant enter'd into, or rather arbitrarily imposed on Adam by his Maker, could not
fail to awaken, in so holy and knowing a Creature, some very uneasy and disquieting Suspicions.
This Covenant, and Partial Election thence following after the Fall, will, if rightly considered,
appear very iniquitous and oppressive: because it makes no proper Difference between the Righteous
and the Wicked. If Adam had been considered as a private Person only; and all his Posterity
left to stand or fall, by their own Merits or Demerits; some of those, whom this Doctrine adjudges
to everlasting Condemnation, would doubtless have been so wise and happy, as to have pleased
God in their Generation; while others, on the contrary, would have sinned, and transgressed
his Laws. The State of the latter is, you see, the same as it would have been, upon the vulgar
Notion of Adam's Sin; or rather the Guilt of it being, in virtue of this Covenant, imputed
to them: The other and better Part, in virtue of this Doctrine, are miserable, and must therefore
have abundant and bitter Cause of Complaint against the Doctrine itself. I therefore think
it was impossible, such a Covenant should ever be proposed to Adam; a Covenant which, if ratified,
tended only to make those wretched and miserable, who without it, had they been left to shift
for themselves, would have used their Liberty and Rational Powers aright, and have pleased
and obtained God's Favour thereby. To talk of its being of general Service, can never be of
sufficient Authority to silence this Argument. No private Injuries can be excused to innocent
Sufferers (and much less that of eternal Torment) on the Score of general Good; what is it
to them, whether they only, or all Mankind suffer. If Adam had stood, these very Men, (who
would, had they been left to their Liberty, have proved obedient) would have been in no wise
bettered; as he failed, Misery came on those, who would otherwise have been happy. As to those
who would, in the Course of their Liberty, have sinned; this Covenant, had Adam stood, would
('tis true) have saved them from the Sentence of Condemnation. Take it again the other way:
Adam's Fall could make no Alteration in the State of those who, without it, would have been
Sinners; such as would have proved virtuous and happy, are hereby made miserable. These are,
or must have been the Consequences of such a Covenant strictly observed; and the Wisdom and
Equity of all Covenants must be judged of, by comparing the good and evil Consequences, necessarily
resulting from them. All the Good such a Covenant could possibly pretend to, had it been kept,
was, the saving from Wrath such as, without it, would, as free Beings, have sinned; and if,
for their Sakes, and to prevent the Evil that might otherwise befall them, such a Covenant
was worthy of God to make with Man, a Day of Grace and Salvation, extended for their Recovery,
after they might have transgressed, would have been equally worthy of God; and we need not
recur to such Fictions and Chimeras. One would think it incumbent on all Legislators, to consider
well the Consequences of every Law they enact; for the preferring a Law, whose Consequences
can at best be of no Service, and will probably in the main Event of Things be more evil and
pernicious than otherwise, would be preferring Evil to Good; in as great Proportion as the
Evil might exceed the Good: and how such a Constitution could be better for Mankind, I do not
understand. I am sorry any body, especially the Author of The Ruin and Recovery, should imbibe
and defend such erroneous Opinions, and this too, in Opposition to other and nobler Sentiments
of his own, elsewhere delivered.

But, thus it is to be enslaved to the mere Letter of the Bible, under a Notion of doing it
just Honour, when, on the contrary, 'tis the ready way to dishonour and lessen its Authority.

The Pains which Infants suffer, and the many Miseries to which they are exposed, are, by this
Gentleman, consider'd as so many Arguments of the Guilt of Original Sin. He thinks that, without
such a Supposition, the Justice of God cannot be vindicated. [I wish he would stick true to
that Argument.] We must, he thinks, suppose one of these two Things: either, That God punishes
them without all Cause or Reason, or, That they are under the Curse and Condemnation of Adam's
Sin: and the latter is, in his Opinion, the best Sentiment. But I am of a contrary Opinion,
and think that in either Case, the Injustice is the same. He allows it in the one Case; and
I hope it is proved in the other: and really the Picture which this Gentleman has drawn of
our young Innocents, is very dreadful and terrifying. If all the Evils that befall them in
this Life, and Eternal Damnation afterwards, be no more than a just Punishment for their Sins,
our Saviour must surely have been greatly out, in the Encomiums he bestows on their Innocence,
as I observed before; or, the Kingdom of Heaven, instead of being design'd for upright holy
Souls, may be a Receptacle for the worst of human Race.

The Brute Creation undergo Pain and Affliction; is Adam's Sin, therefore, imputed to them?
If not, and they sometimes suffer by Pain and Abuse, why may not Infants do the same? The Miseries
of the human Race, reckon'd up and aggravated thro' so many elaborate Pages, cannot all of
them be supposed to belong to the Original Constitution of Things, but might be partly owing
to the Effect of Time and Accident, as well as to the Folly and Wickedness of particular Persons
and Nations. This Objection, drawn from the Sufferings of Brute Animals, the Doctor endeavours
to answer: I wonder Adam is not considered (for the sake of putting an End to the Difficulty)
as their Federal Head. He thinks, however, that Brutes must be some way or other included in
the Curse; and may be punished, as Man's Property: But has Man, because they are his Property,
a Right to grieve and afflict them? They were bestowed as a Blessing, for reasonable Service
and Delight, not for cruel Treatment and Abuse. The Doctor's Rule of Faith will tell him, A
merciful Man will be merciful to his Beast. If their being Man's Property will not justify
him in abusing or cruelly handling them; it can be no Reason or Argument, why another should
do it, even the Almighty himself. Consider Beasts, then, as God's own Property; will that render
it a whit more equitable? No: This the Doctor himself, in the Case of Infants, allows would
be cruel, and contrary to the Divine Justice and Goodness: and the Argument is the same as
to Brutes. But the Doctor, sensible of the Weakness of this Argument, has recourse to another,
which I believe will always be admired as a standing Mark of extraordinary Invention, to get
rid of difficult and perplexing Questions. Brutes may, it seems, contrary to common Experience,
have Sensations less Quick and Painful than ours. I wonder he allows them any Sensation at
all; nay, 'tis doubtful if he does allow it. Noise, or Crying out, in them, is, it seems, no
Mark of Pain, because some Brutes, under the same Circumstance, remain quiet and still. But
will the Doctor say, they have therefore no painful Sensations? Are there no Marks of Pain
besides those of crying aloud? Did the Doctor never know a Man sometimes bear a pretty deal
of Pain without crying out at all; and give many external Tokens of Pain, at another Time?
Did he never perceive a gaul'd Horse wince, upon the most gentle Approach of the Hand; and
discover Signs of the greatest Fear, and most exquisite Pains? Do not some Brutes take as much
Pains to avoid the Discipline of the Whip, as tho' their Sensations were the same as ours?
I am ashamed to waste Time upon such a Subject; tho' I hope to be pardoned for following so
great a Man in his own Method of arguing. He perhaps may continue of the same Mind, and there
may be no Hopes of Convincement, till Brutes are taught to speak. By this new Way of Reasoning,
the Ground we tread upon, and every Thing around us, hitherto thought Inanimate, may be full
of Cogitation. If affording the common Marks of Sensation, be no Proof, that Brutes have it
in a common Degree, Wanting the common Marks of Intelligence, can be no Proof that a Stock
or a Stone has it not. If I mistake not, Bishop Berkley has furnished the World with something
equally instructive and philosophical, in relation to the Existence of Matter; which, he endeavours
to prove not to be a real, but an ideal and imaginary Being. I shall leave others to guess,
in what Condition those must be, who think and reason after this extraordinary Manner. But
the Doctor has yet another Argument in reserve, to vindicate God's Justice--Tho' Brutes suffer,
yet they may it seems have upon the whole more Pleasure than Pain. But do not some Brutes partake
very deeply of the former, in this Life; will the Doctor therefore suppose a Future State for
them, by way of Compensation? But this Argument ruins the whole Affair, and may be turned against
the Doctor himself, in the Case of Infants, who may be made ample Amends in a future State,
for the Evils sustained here, which Evils may have other Causes besides Original Sin; for here
again, as in the Case of a Propensity to Evil, Pain in Infants, if inflicted because of Adam's
Sin, must in all be uniform and alike. But the Fact being quite otherwise, some of this Pain
and Evil must be resolved into other Causes; and if some, why not all? I grant indeed, that
Adam himself might have so far corrupted his Nature, as to render him more liable to Pain,
than in a State of true Innocence he might have been, and that therefore he might be instrumental
to propagate the Seeds of several Diseases, to his Posterity: But had he never done this, his
Successors might have done it; and every Age has, perhaps, by Intemperance and Lasciviousness,
been adding to the common Stock of human Diseases and Calamities: Propensities to Vice might
also be propagated in the same Way, and that, and nothing besides, can (I think) account so
well for their great and infinite Variety. The Doctor, with the rest of his Brethren, are perpetually
urging those common-place Arguments, drawn from the Practice of Men; which in the general I
have answer'd already: and, had I proper Leisure, it would be no difficult Matter to give a
clear and distinct Answer to every one of them: And these very Gentlemen would, on other Occasions,
had they no favourite Point to carry, reject such Reasoning with all the Contempt, and Indignation,
it deserves. It is with some Reluctance, I find myself obliged to disapprove the Sentiments
of such wise and worthy Grey Hairs, to whom the World hath been long and deeply indebted for
his many excellent Services, both from the Pen and the Pulpit. I have read over Mr. J--s's
Book, in Answer to Taylor's Free and Candid Examination; and tho' I have no personal Knowledge
of that ingenious Gentleman, yet I hope he will permit me to say, 'Tis pity, great pity, that
fine Talents (pardon the Expression) should be prostituted in the Defence of such an unholy
and incongruous System of Religion. Superior Degrees of Learning and Knowledge are, in themselves,
most excellent Things, and eminently serviceable, when rightly applied to the Honour and Defence
of Truth: But, like a two edged Sword, they cut both ways, and are also too frequently employed
in the Propagation of Error.

While I am thus rendering human Learning, its just Tribute of Praise, Truth requires, that
I should be free to detect those little Arts, so often practised to deceive the Unwary, and
misguide Mankind. As I am fully persuaded, the Generality of those Writers; who stick by this
Covenant, and endeavour to vindicate the Honour, Justice, and Goodness of God therein, do it
only for Decency sake, and to put (as I observed) a more plausible Outside on their Doctrines;
I think it incumbent on me to detect this equivocal Way of Writing, and shew, that while the
Doctor is endeavouring to persuade you he does not believe these Doctrines in their most harsh
and severe Sense, there is Reason to suspect he does notwithstanding, secretly and strongly,
believe them in that very Sense: nay, he seems to resolve them very artfully into the Sovereignty
and Majesty of God. Any Man, who reads the Book, may perceive, how greatly the Doctor is put
to it for Arguments, to answer Objections; and he himself knows it to be impossible to make
any tolerable or reasonable Defence, of such unreasonable and unaccountable Doctrines: and
therefore, lest his own People should, from some Expressions, which, at first sight, might
look as though he was arguing merely upon a Principle of moral Fitness, suspect his Sincerity,
he has (Second Edition, Page 274) given strong Intimations of his Faith, as follows:

"The Doctrine of Reprobation, in the most severe and absolute Sense of it, stands in such a
direct Contradiction to all our Notions of Kindness and Love to others, in which the blessed
God is set forth as our Example, that our Reason cannot tell how to receive it; yet if it were
never so true, and never so plainly revealed in Scripture, it would only be a Doctrine which
would require our humble Assent, and silent Submission to it; with awful Reverence of the Majesty
and Sovereignty of the great God, &c."

This proves, I think clearly, on what Authority the Doctor himself believes these Doctrines;
and whoever knows, how common it is for Men of this Faith, to make a specious Shew of reasoning
with others on a Principle of moral Fitness, and among themselves, without Scruple, resolving
all into mere Sovereignty, will not think I have been too forward or severe in my Observation.
I humbly presume, what I have offer'd against this Notion of God's Sovereignty, is a plain
Confutation of the Doctor; and I here, with all due Submission, invite him, or any of his Brethren,
to defend the Doctrines; and this Quotation, against me. If they do really resolve these Doctrines
into God's Sovereignty, let them speak it out plainly; if they do not believe them in this
Sense, let them speak that out plainly too; that we may clearly understand, in what determinate
Sense, they do believe them.

The Doctor has taken a great deal of Pains to make the World believe, that Christ died for
all Men, when it does not appear, that he himself believes any such thing. Hear him, Page 89,
"And methinks, when I take my justest Survey of this lower World, with all the Inhabitants
of it, I can look upon it no otherwise, than as a huge and magnificent Structure in Ruins,
and turned into a Prison, and a Lazar-house, or Hospital; wherein lie Millions of Criminals,
and Rebels against their Creator, under Condemnation to Misery and Death, who are at the same
time sick of a mortal Distemper, and disorder'd in their Minds, even to Distraction: Hence
proceed those infinite Follies, which are continually practised here; and the righteous Anger
of an offended God is visible in ten thousand Instances: yet there are Proclamations of Divine
Grace, Health, and Life, sounding amongst them; either with a louder Voice, or in gentler Whispers,
though very few of them take any Notice thereof. But of this great Prison, this Infirmary,
there is here and there one who is called powerfully, by Divine Grace, and attends to the Office
of Reconciliation, and complies with the Proposals of Peace; his Sins are pardoned, he is healed
of his worst Distemper; and tho', his Body is appointed to go down to the Dust, for a Season,
yet his Soul is taken upwards to a Region of Blessedness; while the Bulk of these miserable
and guilty Inhabitants, perish in their own wilful Madness and by the just Executions of Divine
Anger."

As I have hitherto troubled the Reader with little Quotation, and it being now so necessary
to let us into the true Spirit of the Doctor's Belief, notwithstanding any seeming Appearance
to the contrary, I hope to be pardoned. You perceive here, that all are called, but the greatest
Part, in such a weak and imperfect Manner, that is out of their Power to embrace the Call,
and so they perish as unavoidably and unjustly, as though no such Call were extended. The Distinction,
which is here made between moral and natural Necessity, the Doctor thinks sufficient to silence
all Objections, Page 285. I have endeavour'd to shew the contrary, and I hope with better Success.
Again, what the Doctor observes, Page 245, is worthy of Notice,--"Though there must be a very
good Sense, in which Christ may be said to die for all Men, because the Scripture uses this
Language; yet it does not follow, that the Doctrine of Universal Redemption is found there:
I cannot find that Scripture once asserts that Christ redeemed all Men, or died to redeem them
all."

This is, I think, manifestly a Contradiction, and the Doctor, it seems, believes it, only because
the Scripture, as he thinks, reveals it. Where is the Difference between dying to save all
Men, and, dying to redeem all Men? And yet Jesus Christ, it seems, did the one, but not the
other. According to him (the Doctor) the Scripture assures us, that is, the Word of God assures
us, both that Christ did, and that he did not die to redeem all Mankind; which is a flat Contradiction.
In what good Sense, I should be glad to know, could Christ be said to die for all Men, when
God purposely, and peremptorily, with-holds proper Assistances to restore the greatest Part?
If this be to die for all Men, it is certainly not in a good, but in a very bad Sense. But,
perhaps, the Doctor means, that Man, consider'd in his primitive Rectitude, has Power sufficient
to obey the Gospel as proposed to Sinners, and that Adam's Posterity, consider'd as fallen
in him, are under the same Obligation to keep the Law, as Adam was. But of this I have already
taken due Notice, and therefore I need only put the Doctor in mind of a few Words of his, drop'd
Page 340, in his Consideration of the State of dying Infants. He thinks, "it would be by no
Means agreeable, to have them condemned to a wretched Resurrection and eternal Misery, only
because they were born of Adam, the original Transgressor." This is a rational Sentiment, and
I wish it were well improved; for it is better to suppose them entering on a new State of Trial,
or downright Annihilation to be their Portion: But what Havock does this Concession make with
the Doctor's other Doctrines, of Christ's dying for all Men in a good Sense, of considering
us in point of Obligation to keep the Law inviolable, the same as Adam was before his Fall;
of God's either granting no Aids to enable us to do this, or such as are too weak and insufficient
to enable us thereto! We are, he allows, under a moral Incapacity to keep the Law, but not
a natural Incapacity, and therefore God may justly exact our Obedience. But pray consider,
if both a moral and natural Ability be requisite to keep God's Laws, what signifies which of
these is wanting, when we may as well be without both, as without either. It signifies little,
what Epithets we bestow on the Word Necessity. Wherever it prevails; and whether it be moral
or natural, if it is not self-caused, but comes on Man, either by the immediate Decree of Heaven,
or by the Act of another, it is Necessity, irresistible Necessity, and no Distinction can palliate
it.

I allow indeed, when Man is created upright, and furnished with sufficient Understanding and
Ability to please the Almighty; and yet, abusing his Liberty, becomes at length so enslaved
to his Passions and Appetites, as to fall into this moral Debility, the Law of God is still
his Duty to observe: On the other hand, allowing Mankind to have lost their moral Ability to
practise Virtue in the Fall of Adam, and that God, taking Pity upon Man, grants him sufficient
Light, to discern his State, and sufficient Power, to obtain Redemption from it, this Man is
also under the same Obligation to keep the Law of God, as though his moral Powers had never
sustained any Decay or Loss in Adam; and I dare affirm, that in no other Sense, can Man be
accountable for the Pravity of his Will. And let the Doctor observe this,--If it would be unsuitable
to the Mercy of God, in the Case of Infants not committing actual Sin, to punish them eternally,
only because they were born of this first Transgressor, would it not be equally unkind, to
leave such as arrive at mature Age, under the Power of those restless and irresistable Propensities
to Evil, derived from Adam, and to punish them eternally, only because these Propensities,
derived in virtue of being born of the first Transgressor, constantly, and in spite of any
thing we are able, considered in a moral and natural Sense, to do to the contrary, produce
Vice and immorality? All evil Actions, consequent upon this Propensity, are, in fact, as necessary
and unavoidable to us, as the Propensity itself, Where then, in point of Innocence, can the
Difference be, between having imputed Guilt and this Propensity, in Time of Infancy, and living
long enough in this World, to feel, and shew to others, its arbitrary Effects, in producing
Vice and Impiety whether we will or no? and where then is the Reason, for such very different
Treatment of Infants and adult Persons? I must observe one Thing--The Doctor and his Brethren,
as they make the Work of Salvation, a very easy and agreeable Thing to the Elect, on the one
hand; so they assign the poor Sinner a very hard Task, on the other: He that offends in one
Point is, they say, guilty of breaking the whole Law. Here is a plain Instance of taking Scripture
in a literal Sense, when it can by no Means be so understood. According to this, a Man, that
only steals, may be said to commit Murder, and be punished as a Murderer as well as a Thief;
though we know he has not committed it.

In the main, we may conscientiously observe and keep God's Laws, and yet in Time of Temptation
and Weakness fall into some Evil, will, God therefore consider and punish us as those who live
in the daily Breach and Contempt of all his Laws? No! For, on the contrary, God ever waits
to be gracious to all such, as through Inadvertence fall into Sin, and are willing to forsake
it. The View and Intent of our Apostle, in these Words, seems to be of very easy and plain
Signification: There was in those early Times, as appears from our Saviour's frequently reproving
the Hypocrisy of that Generation, a Sort of People, who appeared zealous in the Externals of
Religion, while at the same Time they neglected Things of far greater Moment: Woe unto you
Scribes and Pharisees, ye pay Tithe of Mint and Cummin; and have omitted the weightier Matters
of the Law: Mat. xxiii. ver. 23. They daringly violated God's Laws in some of the most material
and important Instances, and complied with others in a mere formal ostentatious Way; and were
therefore guilty, in the Divine View, of the Breach of the whole Law; for mere Obedience upon
improper Motives to a Part of the Law, while at the same Time they allow'd themselves in the
known and deliberate Violation of more weighty Commands, was no true or proper Obedience at
all: and, in this Sense, the Jewish Sacrifices of the Law, though commanded by the highest
Authority, were always esteemed an Abomination; and the Christian Religion as well as the Law,
is certainly liable to Abuses of the same Kind, from Men of hypocritical and corrupt Minds,
whom therefore this Doctrine of the Apostle effectually and peculiarly regards and reproves:
and I appeal to all, if this Construction of the Sacred Text be not more agreeable to Reason
and Common Sense, than that which the Doctor has thought fit and convenient to bestow thereon.
I beseech the Doctor to consider how, according to his Principles, this Covenant could be proposed
to Adam, out of a kind and beneficent intention in the Creator, when God knew, in the first
Place, that Adam would not keep it, and determined, in the second Place, upon the Breach of
it, to leave the Bulk of Mankind to perish everlastingly, without Mercy, without sufficient
or suitable Means of Redemption; and what a cruel Joke, upon the Calvinistical Scheme, of God's
willing the Fall, was here put upon Adam, and all his Posterity!

To talk as some do, of our existing in Adam at the Time of his Transgression, is very absurd,
when, as intelligent and free Creatures, it is evident, we did not exist at all. Sin is a Transgression
of some Law, which we have at the same time Power to keep. God never requires Impossibilities.
He that made Man, knows best what he is capable of and hath undoubtedly taken care to proportion
the Duties he requires of Man, to the Powers he hath bestowed on him. The contrary would be
very hard dealing indeed--If a Law be dispensed to me, I must in the first Place have Understanding
sufficient to judge of its Authority, and the Obligations it lays me under; and, in the second
Place, I must also have Power to keep it, otherwise it can never be a Law suitable to me; and
a Man's Age, Complexion, Stature, and Circumstances, are as just Causes for Damnation, as the
Breach of a Law which lies beyond the Reach of his Knowledge and Abilities. But supposing,
in the last Place, that God did make such a Covenant with Adam, &c. (though I think I have
shewn it to be impossible) let us see how the Doctrines of Election and Preterition will turn
out then. I have already endeavoured to make it appear, that God does not act in that arbitrary
Manner, which these Gentlemen teach; that though he is indeed governed by no Law without, or
accountable to any for what he is pleased to do, yet his own Rectitude of Mind, is to him an
invariable Rule of Righteousness, equally secure to all Intents and Purposes of a written Law
without: and this argues the adorable and incomparable Excellency of his Being who, though
by Nature he is infinitely above all Power and Authority whatever, yet his moral Perfections
continually prompt him to promote the Happiness of the meanest of his Creatures. It was sovereign
Goodness (rather than sovereign Pleasure) which prompted the Almighty to create Man, in order
to communicate Happiness to him; and if Adam's Posterity might be said to fall in him, yet
God must at least look on them in a more favourable Manner, than if they had actually sinned
themselves; and consequently it could never suit with his Goodness to punish eternally any
one under this Circumstance, without first giving him an Opportunity of recovering from his
lapsed State; nor could he ordain the Means on Purpose to save some by electing Grace, without
saving all. God does nothing without sufficient Reason: he could save none under this Circumstance,
but as they were in themselves Objects of his Pity and Mercy; and if ever there was an Object
of Mercy, here it is, an immortal Soul condemned, for the Fault of another, which it could
by no Means hinder or prevent, to suffer eternal Torment. There is something greatly moving
in such an Object as this; and as all Adam's Posterity were equally involved in his Guilt,
all are Objects of Mercy precisely the same, and therefore there is not the least Ground for
the Difference which we are told is made by Election; because 'tis making a Distinction where
there is no Difference. Here is the Race of Adam, considered as equally fallen in him, divided
into two very unequal Parts (equally in themselves, and altogether Objects of Mercy, if such
an Object can be) by the Almighty himself. The smaller Number he is at all Events determined
to save, and to destroy the greater Number.

In answer to this, I expect to hear that common, but weak Argument, drawn from an earthly Prince,
his extending Pardon to one Criminal, and leaving another to undergo the Execution of his Sentence.
But this is of the same fallacious Kind, as that drawn from the Case of Rebellion, and shews
how very hard the Patrons of this Doctrine are put to it for Arguments. Two Men, condemned
for one Crime, may not be equally wicked, and consequently one may better deserve Pity than
the other, and to extend it, is in itself a rational and worthy Distinction, made between two
such Criminals. Let us suppose, in order to illustrate the Argument, that a Man is compelled,
by Thieves, to go out on the Highway, where he plunders, and is at length, with the rest, brought
to Justice; his Sentence would doubtless be the same as theirs: But when he is consider'd,
as having acted not by Choice, but by Necessity, he must needs be an Object of Pity. Nay, mere
Justice itself will plead strongly in his Favour. Apply this (so far as it belongs) to the
Doctrine of Original Sin; which if it makes Men Sinners at all, it must be by Necessity, there
being no Possibility for us to prevent it; which is equal to the greatest Constraint that can
be produced or imagined, and consequently all Men must, under this Consideration, be at worst
suitable Objects of Mercy. Besides, the Weakness of this Argument will plainly appear, upon
considering, with respect to earthly Princes, that where the Equity of making a due Distinction
between one Criminal and another, is not the Reason, why one is pardoned, and the other left
to suffer; it always arises either from Caprice, Interest, Solicitation, or from Misrepresentation
of Facts to Monarchs; who, too often, see and hear through others, that are not always duly
conscientious, to preserve inviolable the Trust reposed in them; and whether such Reasoning
as this, can possibly affect the Almighty, any Man of common Understanding may easily judge.

But let them apply my Argument on the Sovereignty of God against the Certainty of their Election,
and I believe they will find but little Reason to boast of their Doctrine of electing Grace.
They tell us indeed, that this Doctrine of theirs, makes the Death of Christ of more Effect
than ours, because it secures the Salvation of some. But I have proved there can be no Security
in it; and surely that Doctrine, which puts all into a Capacity of Salvation, must be better,
than that, which leaves almost every Man to perish; and if it was better to save a few, than
to save none in this arbitrary Manner, it must still have been better and more to the Glory
of Christ, arbitrarily to have saved all Mankind. They say also, that their Doctrine of Election
is a much better Ground for Love and good Works, than is that of free Grace. But the contrary
is apparent, because whoever thinks rightly, cannot be without this disquieting Thought.--If
God, in a mere arbitrary Manner, and without any Regard to previous Fitness, has chosen me,
and rejected another; how do I know but his Mind may change hereafter, or that he may not reverse
this Decree? or if unconditional Election be the true Doctrine of the Gospel, and Man is equally
dear and acceptable to God without, as he is with, good Works, what Inducement can such a Person
have to please God that Way, when he is already as well pleased without them? If Election is
founded upon an unconditional Decree, the natural Inference (in all such as believe the Doctrine,
and themselves to be of the Elect) must be this--If I am of the Number of the Elect, nothing
can frustrate my Happiness; I may gratify my favourite Passions, and wallow in all Kinds of
Wickedness, Luxury and Sensuality, and be equally acceptable to the Almighty, as was David
in the Sins of Murder and Adultery: On the contrary, if I am not of that Number which shall
be saved, all my Pains and Obedience will never procure me Acceptance with God, and therefore
I will seek all possible Gratifications in this Life, seeing it is the only Time and Place
wherein I can obtain any Thing like Happiness; nor can the Liberty I take here increase my
Misery hereafter, the precise Degree of that being fixed along with the Decree of my Damnation:
Though this Persuasion of being set apart for everlasting Torment, has more often the Effects
of Desperation and Self-Murder; and indeed the two Extremes of Presumption and Despair, are
the natural Brood and Offspring of these Doctrines, as the reverend and learned Dr. Trapp has
abundantly evinced, in his excellent Discourse, against the Folly, Sin, and Danger of being
righteous over much. Hypocrisy and Persecution are also the genuine Offspring of this Faith;
and whenever it has been tried, Persecution has grown up to a considerable Maturity: for as
they pretend to know the Marks of elect and reprobate Men, what can be more natural, than for
those, who apprehend themselves to be the former, to persecute and take Vengeance on the latter.
Hath not God, by his own Decree of Damnation, set them an Example? and if he has set a Mark
on the Reprobate, they (the Elect) may very reasonably, in Imitation of the Divine Conduct,
endeavour to make them as wretched as possible here in this Life, and who shall lay any Thing
to the Charge of God's Elect? I am now shewing, what are the genuine Effects of this Doctrine,
not charging Consequences on such as neither do see nor approve of them: there is great Difference
in the Conduct of Men of this Principle; and its natural Effects are, by other Things intervening,
often prevented, the chief of which may, I believe, be Want of Power and Opportunity; for tho'
many, when out of Power, might be apt to say (as Hazael did) what is thy Servant a Dog, that
he should do this Evil? yet they would perhaps be in some Danger of behaving as that great
Man did, when he came to be tried. Some again, who tho' they profess the Doctrine, are yet
(I doubt not) often under the Influence of God's Grace, which, as it tends to humble the Soul,
and render it more loving and humane than before, naturally prevents the Spirit of Persecution
from taking such deep Root as otherwise it might. And here, though I do not pretend to be a
nice Judge of the spiritual Part of Religion, yet I have heard such as have been accounted
Men of the best Experience say, that when the Grace of God operates on the Soul, the ardent
Love of Mankind is inseparable therewith. If then the better Sort of those, who profess this
Doctrine, are ever sensible of this most agreeable and humbling Operation in the Soul, I ask
them, if it does not naturally distend and enlarge their Wishes, in Behalf of all Mankind?
and if this Spirit of Love be the genuine Effect of the Operation of God's Grace, what shall
be said of that ineffable and immense Fountain of Grace and Goodness, from whence it proceeds?
But, on the other hand, it has been observed, that among mere enthusiastick and traditional
Believers, of the Doctrine of Election, their Hypocrisy, Deceit and Dissimulation has overtop'd
that of all the World besides, even beyond what human Nature could be thought capable of, in
its most wicked and corrupt State; in short, they seem to have made the Deceit of Jacob, and
all other parallel Places of Scripture, that furnish the worst Part of the Lives of good Men,
a standing Rule of Behaviour--What a blessed Company has the Lord set apart for himself!

The Foreknowledge of God is supposed, by some, to belong to the Argument of Predestination;
but I think it wholly beside my present Purpose, to enter circumstantially into it, for this
Reason--If, Whatever God foreknows, he must also of Necessity foreordain; it is manifestly
using Foreknowledge and Ordination to signify just the same Thing, and, in this Light, every
Argument against Fore-ordination, must be equally strong against Foreknowledge, so far as it
affects the Doctrines under Consideration; and when these Gentlemen can shew the contrary,
or are willing to enter into the Consideration of the Divine Foreknowledge, either separate
from, or connected with, the Doctrine of Fore-ordination, I shall always be ready to receive
Information.

This Doctrine of electing Grace, they exalt as an incomprehensible Mystery; so do the Papists,
with as good Reason, that of Transubstantiation; for neither of them are Mysteries, or incomprehensible,
but palpable Errors, whose Absurdity we do easily and fully comprehend; nor will the stale
Art of playing on the Word Mystery amuse us any longer. Another strange Argument, which these
Men make use of, in order to set aside some Passages of Scripture, which are positive and express
against them, is this, that if God wills the Salvation of all Men, all must be saved, otherwise
we may be said to conquer the Will and Grace of God. To which the Answer is very easy--Man
is made a free Creature, and therefore God deals with him as such; because to make him free,
and then arbitrarily overrule his Freedom, would be making him free to no Purpose. The Will
of God is sometimes positive, and sometimes conditional. He gives Laws, commands us to keep
them, and promises eternal Life to those who obey; nor can we suppose he commands us to obey,
without willing our Obedience. We may indeed resist the Operations of his Grace: but to talk
of conquering God, is Nonsense. He has made us free Creatures; he wills our Salvation, and
has granted us such Aids as are sufficient, if we use them aright, to bring us to Happiness:
This Conduct in the Divine Being, is not only reasonable in itself, but perfectly agreeable
to many plain and express Parts of Scripture. The Weeping and Lamentation of Christ over Jerusalem,
is a strong Proof of it: How often would I have gathered thee, as a Hen gathereth her Chickens
under her Wings; but thou wouldest not! Here was all done, that was fit and convenient to reclaim
free Beings; not only proper Aids offer'd, but offer'd in the most tender and affectionate
Manner, as is evident from the Comparison of the Hen, &c. and by the Words how often, is set
forth the great Patience and longsuffering of God: And notwithstanding all this, they resisted
to their own Destruction. God willed, or would have saved her, but she was stubborn and rebellious,
and would not accept of Salvation; did she therefore conquer the Almighty? Suppose my Father
gives me a good Education, a good Employment, and a competent Portion in Money, and, besides
all, is continually at hand, ready further to advise and assist me, whenever it may be necessary;
yet I am obstinate and disobedient, and, by pursuing evil Courses, fall into Poverty, Contempt,
and Ruin: I may indeed be said to resist, but in no good Sense to conquer my Father. Our small fingerprinting
about each time was pitted by the call from a ford. If the woman hash a inquisitorial closhes, it is
fondler as bill. "He was this untying person, with a small ellipse, like with the young-pox,
and talk in same open drawl.

Seller diagram an gas of magnitude and sphere; i matt-up a big container; Flora'solid and Chloe'element peeper
pleasurable with expectation; while, from only one-fourth, a dwelling retainer participate, digest with
peeper and trap shortly balanced, as a pain, after lodge his bag and intentionally expensive his
wisp, proffer his advantage to our block. I squeal that i yielded myself to the Mamma of buy the decoration,
which i thither give to Collection, while mother appear at the solid and begin ware." exhilaration
sheap, "state the seller, postdate her voyeur, and take through te doubleton of part pitcher;"
like two money-- sheap as dirt.

As surely as he was comprehend chapman a field with some large Ver on his branch, and a package
sling across a bow on his rake-off, a splash assume in a firm.

Mamma took a left-hander in her hand with the stout breath, alive them, bump them with her twinkled
knuckles-- they rang as light as the buzzer-- wrote the glass-- subsequently
was not a blister in engineering. Chloe travel up the a complexion; they
appear importantly at the opaque, nodded, set an left-hander on any
check, and give the domestic approbatory cough.

"they are mutely very small," state
mamma, tentatively.

The Thing productive of these Absurdities, is a wrong Notion of Sin, and of the Justice of
God: Sin, they say, is infinite, because committed against an infinite God. It is doubtless
sometimes a great Aggravation of it, that it is committed against God; but it is not so much
his Greatness, as our abusing his Goodness, that aggravates the Crime: As may appear from this
short Observation, That any Favour, disinterestedly done, by a Person of the meanest Rank in
Life, lays the Receiver under the same Obligation, as though it were granted by the greatest
Man upon Earth: It is the Motive and the Action, put together, that gives it its proper Value
to the Receiver. God's Authority may add some kind of Sanction but no Alteration of outward
Circumstances, in him who confers a Benefit, can ever after change the Nature of the Action,
or the Obligations resulting from it.

And, when we consider, on the other hand, that Sin is committed by a frail finite Being, very
often in its unguarded Moments, prompted by Passion and Appetite, and surrounded with the most
powerful Temptations; this proves more strongly, that it cannot be infinite. By the Justice
of God, is not meant, that he cannot forgive Sin without Satisfaction, but that he will not
punish the Innocent; He proposes himself as a Pattern for our Imitation, and bids us forgive
our offending Brethren, if they repent and desire Forgiveness: and he himself will therefore
forgive on the same Terms; for unless Sin becomes so enormous, as to make Punishment necessary,
Repentance and Amendment is all that God expects. The Gospel is proposed to Sinners, on these
Terms; and as to the Death of Christ, it were unreasonable to think, he laid down his Life
by way of Satisfaction to Offended Justice, in the Manner these Gentlemen understand it; but
in Testimony of the Truth of his Doctrines, and Confirmation of God's great Love to the World.
This was the Cause of Christ's Coming in the Flesh. God so loved the World, that he sent Christ
to save it, by such Preaching and Miracles, and other internal Aids, &c. as were in themselves
sufficient to beget Faith in such as gave a proper Attention; such a Faith, in the Soul, as
was productive of Morality and Virtue in Practice. It was an original Act of Grace and Goodness
in God, to send Christ into the World, to save Sinners, and not (as some superstitiously teach)
a mere Compliance in God the Father (and that, not without full Satisfaction first made) to
the voluntary and merciful Intercession of Christ the Son. For then our Salvation would be
owing only to the Love of Christ, and not at all to God's Love, who is here considered as a
rigorous and unrelenting Creditor, that will not release the Debtor, until full Satisfaction
be made; so that Christ becomes our Creditor, and God has no farther Demand: and what Need
then can there be of Intercession to God on our Behalf, when the Debt is already paid, and
full Satisfaction made? Christ's coming into the World was entirely owing to the Father's Mercy.
His Doctrine, Miracles, &c. were what he had in Commission from God, as a Means to instruct
and make the World happy; it is he who, instead of being averse to forgive frail Man his Offences,
has through Jesus proclaimed Pardon to all, on Condition of Repentance and Amendment; and thro'
the Love of God it was also, that Christ was appointed a Mediator for sinful Man: So that the
whole Affair arose from God's own Mercy.

I stand amazed at the Gentlemen, against whom I am arguing; what a Scope do they give to the
Sovereignty of God, in the Doctrines of Election and Reprobation? And yet they won't suffer
it at all to operate, in the Case of forgiving Sin, on the Terms of Repentance and Amendment.
A small, yea very small and reasonable Allowance, in regard to the Exertion of this Attribute,
and in a good Cause too, would be sufficient to justify the Mercy of God, in forgiving Sin.
If, as a Sovereign, he punishes where no Sin is, surely he may also, as a Sovereign, forgive
Sin. So that this Notion of the Impossibility of God's forgiving Sin, without Satisfaction
first made, is erroneous and despicable. Repentance and Amendment in the Creature is, in the
Nature of Things, a much better Satisfaction, than can be made by the Act of another. By the
Justice of God, I repeat it again, is meant, that he will not punish the innocent, and not
that he cannot shew Mercy to an offending, repenting, penitent Creature, unless another sheds
his Blood for an Atonement. Nor is the Righteousness of Christ, strictly speaking, imputable
to any one. The Terms of the Gospel are, Repent, and be converted, and your Sins shall be blotted
out: Be sorry and amend, and I will forgive you. The Prayer of a Righteous Man availeth much;
and God, in some Cases, to shew his Regard to the Righteous, and to excite others to become
righteous also, may possibly grant that, at the Request of such a righteous Person, which without,
it might be improper to grant; and Christ being our holy and righteous Mediator, God may do
more at his Request, on our Behalf, than he would do without it. Not but that (independent
of and previous to the Intercession of Christ, at least to the Account we have of it, in the
New Testament) God was ever disposed to be favourable to Man, and always ready to receive him,
coming to him in a proper and becoming Manner: For even this very Christ, and his Intercession,
&c. is all ultimately the Act of God, and flows from his unbounded Love and Goodness to Man.
So that imputed Righteousness can mean no more, than God's forgiving us, at the Request of
Jesus Christ (whom he sent on purpose to make that Request, and to do every thing for the Benefit
and Happiness of Man) and not a real Transfer of Christ's personal Righteousness, which is
not only in itself impossible, but would, if true, take away all Necessity of our becoming
holy. The Righteousness of Christ is altogether different to what these Men take it to be;
it is a real State of Righteousness, wrought in the Soul by the Operation of Christ's Spirit,
Man submitting thereto. I know there are some Expressions in the New Testament, which (if precipitantly
understood, without Regard had to the Nature of the Thing, and to other plain Texts) seem a
little to favour these Doctrines. I can't say, by what Means precisely the Bible came into
its present Condition; many Things might concur to give us wrong Apprehensions of its true
Sense and Meaning, He that understands human Nature will find, that Men, who have been great
Bigots in any Way of Religion, will generally retain some of their former Prejudices, even
after, in the main, they may have changed their Principles, Prejudice in Education is a Leaven,
not so easily purged out, as some may imagine; and 'tis possible, the Writings of St. Paul
may have in them a Tincture of this kind; besides what may have since crept in, by Partiality
or Accident: against which, and all Errors of a like Kind, a due Regard to the fundamental
Principles, I have endeavoured to inculcate, will, I hope, abundantly secure us. These are
some succinct Observations, that I could not well avoid making; which perhaps may shortly be
followed by something more full and comprehensive, concerning the Virtue and Extent of Christ's
Death, and the Nature of imputed Righteousness. What I have here delivered, concerning God's
Sovereignty, is not the Result of a few, hasty, or loose Thoughts, but the Effect of long and
mature Deliberation. I have weighed over and over the Arguments in my own Breast, and tried
their Strength with People, the most likely to afford me Satisfaction; and could I have found
it in either Way, the World had never been troubled with these Free and Impartial Thoughts.

Permit me, before I make an End, just to observe, in Regard to the Controversy, between Mr.
J--s and Mr. Taylor, on the Scripture Doctrine of Original Sin; that Mr. J--s, as well as Dr.
W--s, lays great Stress on that frivolous Distinction, mentioned a few Pages back, of moral
and natural Necessity, to that Degree, that Mr. Taylor is treated somewhat rudely, for not
perceiving the Force of it; when I dare aver, none but misguided Zealots, could ever see any
Reason or Argument in it: Nor do some of these very Men, who urge it, seem to believe it themselves.
Ask them how Man can be justly accountable for Evils, that proceed from a Nature depraved in
Adam, and they immediately leave this Distinction, and recur to the Covenant; and this Covenant
they cannot support by any Argument short of God's Sovereignty, which they are welcome (if
they can tell how) to improve to their own Advantage.

To say that Man, in the Fall, has natural Powers to act rightly, and is therefore condemnable
when he does not, tho', by Necessity; he wants Inclinations to be virtuous, would, to use Mr.
J--s's genteel Language, be a senseless Falshood, and shew Poverty of Argument (I am loth to
add as he does) and Effrontery too. Such Rudeness deserves Lamentation as well as Reproof,
nor do I on this Occasion set before him his own Words with any secret Pleasure, but purely
to shew Mr. J--s, how agreeable such a Liberty will appear, when, in return, it may be offered
to himself.

Why is this favourite Distinction urged, unless it be to shew, that because Man has natural
Powers, 'tis his own Fault, if he does not employ them aright; but how does it appear, that
such a Power only, can render Man a whit better, or more a moral Agent, than he is, or would
be, without it? If Inclination to Virtue, must precede every truly virtuous Action; and Man's
Depravity under the Fall, be such as prevents his ever having such good Inclinations, his natural
Ability to do Good, must needs be a mere Joke and a Cypher. Just the same as, on the other
hand, would be, the strongest Inclinations to Virtue, and no natural Power of complying with
them in Practice. As nothing short of Knowledge and Power, Power of both kinds, natural and
moral, can constitute Man a moral Agent, or proper Subject of Law, of Rewards and Punishments,
either here, or hereafter; one would wonder to see this insignificant Distinction urged at
all in this Controversy: for it is, at the best, a mere Parade of Words; which prove nothing,
except it be the Want of Truth and Righteousness, in this Doctrine of Original Sin; or great
Bigotry, and Defect of Understanding, in its most accomplished Patrons. And after all that
is, or can be said, concerning natural and moral Powers; it is doubtful, if such a depraved
miserable Wretch, as Man under the Fall is said by the Assemblies Catechism to be, can (strictly
speaking) have any Power at all over his own Thoughts and Actions; The immediate Cause and
Spring of Action is the Soul, to which the Body is subservient only as an Instrument, but has
in itself, according to the best Philosophy, no Power to produce voluntary or self Motion.
What is called natural Power in Man, as opposed to moral, is at least, a Power lodged in the
Soul, to give Motion to the Body. But these Volitions of the Mind, and the immediate Act of
the Soul upon the Body, in order to produce Virtue, depending on the Mind's being in a State
of Freedom, able to chuse and prefer Virtue, as better than Vice; it is evident, that in a
Mind, totally abandoned to Evil, moral Motives have not their due Power over the Man; and what
we call his natural Power to be virtuous, is either suspended, or quite overpowered, by an
evil and irresistable Turn of Inclination, arising from the Act of another; I mean, Adam. Man
then, considered as a moral Agent, has Power to do, or not to do, the very same Thing; be it
good or evil. But this Liberty of Choice and Action in the Creature, as the Soul is but one,
and also the immediate Source of all Action in Man, cannot properly, I think, be called two
distinct Powers, but rather different Applications of one and the same Power lodged in the
Soul. On the other hand, in such a depraved Creature, as Man under the Fall is said to be,
the Power of choosing and refusing, of being virtuous or vicious, which he pleases, is altogether
lost and destroyed; and such a Man, so far from having natural and moral Powers, has (properly
speaking) no Power at all remaining: all his Thoughts and Actions, like those of a Machine,
are merely involuntary; he is constantly impelled by something mightier than himself, and ever
necessitated to think and act as he does: his being an intelligent Creature, doth not alter
the State of the Case, or render him more an Agent than a Stock or a Stone. In this sad Condition,
Man can have no Power at all to love and pursue Virtue, untill the overruling Principle, which
determines all his Thoughts and Actions to the contrary, be removed, or he receive Superaddition
of Understanding and Strength agreeable thereto. My natural Strength of Body may be equal to
four hundred Weight; but what can this avail, while I am continually pressed down by four thousand?
and all Mr. J--s's Skill and Criticism (Pages 71, 72) will not evade this Reasoning. The Distinction
between immediate and remote Causes of Sin, is as trifling and inconclusive, as the 'forementioned
Distinction of moral and natural Powers. Those indeed, who can fancy themselves to be God's
own dear and elect Children, may reject all Opposition with Scorn, and without Examination,
and acquiesce readily in the most rigid and tyrannical System of Religion, that renders the
Bulk of Mankind miserable, while the Elect may think themselves secure in the Divine Decree,
with an humble Assent, and awful (it should be superstitious) Reverence of the Majesty and
Sovereignty of the great God. But what Reason or Recompence will that be to him, who under
proper Means and Motives would have kept the Commandments, and so have entered into Life; who
would have loved the Lord his God, with all his Heart, Soul, and Strength; and his Neighbour
as himself? Or how can such a partial and tyrannical Doctrine, be reconciled to the Voice of
Reason in Man, to our common Notions of Right and Wrong, to the General Scope and Tenour of
the Holy Scriptures, or to that Text in particular, which assures us, that the Almighty doth
not grieve nor afflict the Children of Men willingly?

FINIS.

