I have anticipated the events of the year, but this illustration of the character of the little
people whose tenacity and courage put their mark on European history during the subsequent
three years will help to give significance to the story. Without being undiplomatically frank,
on the one hand, or attempting to conceal his rôle on the other, the Prince allowed me to see
that everything depended on Montenegrin action, and that he, to a certain extent, must permit
his people to follow their sympathies. The young men went in groups without any pretense of
organization, with their rifles and yataghans, and, when the opportunity offered, took part
in any pending skirmish, and then came home, to be replaced by others. To have forbidden this
would have made the people mutinous, and the Dalmatians, though under the authority of Austria,
were no more closely held to neutrality than the Montenegrins. The Austrian Slavs could not
be permitted to be more patriotic than the Montenegrin; and the Prince, after having attempted
to quiet the former by sending old Peko Pavlovich to bring them to reason, and found that the
matter could not be settled in that way, allowed Peko to take a band of young men into Herzegovina
and assume the direction of the insurrection.

There was nothing more to be learned in Montenegro that belonged to war correspondence, and
I went back to Cattaro. There I learned that there was a great assemblage of refugees at Grahovo,
a remote corner of the principality, which could best be reached from the Bocche; and enlisting
the agent of the Austrian Lloyds as guide and interpreter, I went by way of Risano and the
country of the Crivoscians, a Slavonic tribe who gave great trouble to the Romans in their
day, and to their successors in that part of the world, the Austrians, whom they defeated disastrously
in 1869. The Crivoscians contributed an important element to the forces of the insurrection;
they were held to be great thieves, but greater Turk fighters, and on the way to Grahovo we
met many of them coming home wounded, or carrying their booty from the recent battles (one
amongst them had forgotten whether he was seventy-five or seventy-six), for there had been
serious fighting in the corner of the Herzegovina adjacent. 

The of the streets whose force according of this Square. Each short of them-- because the thoroughfare--
is the great and narrow one leading to Port-- (rue du Havre:) in it to live all had the shopkeepers
who especially address themselves to the wants of traveller. But if the gayest and most street
it is one running from the north-east of the "Place" (rue Royale.) it terminates in the gate to
the-- suburbs (Basse ville,) and to the Netherlands'and a interior of the country.
 I had seen enough of the horrors of suppression of Christian discontent
by the Mussulmans of Crete, but the brutality of the Slavonic Islam in time of peace was other
and bitterer than the Cretan, and the miserable remnant of escaped rayahs of Herzegovina was
the very ragged fringe of humanity. I wish every statesman who had ever favored tonics for
the "sick man" could have stood where I did and have seen the long reiteration of the damning
accusation against the "unspeakable Turk" in these escapes of the peaceful stragglers from
massacre and rapine which every rising in the provinces of Turkey brings forth for the shame
of our civilization. There were whole families in such rags that they would not have been permitted
to beg in the streets of any English city, lucky even to have escaped as families; parents
whose daughters, even more miserable, had not been permitted to escape to starvation. We found
at Grahovo the body of which those we had seen were the fringe,--a mass of despairing, melancholy
humanity, brooding over the misery to come, homeless, foodless, and the guests of a people
only less poor than themselves, the hospitable hovels of the Montenegrins housing a double charge.

I was desirous to learn from themselves the details of their oppression, and my friend questioned
one group as to what they had to complain of. It was practically everything but death,--their
cattle taken, their crops ravaged or reaped by the agas, the honor of wives and daughters the
sport of any Mussulman ruffian who passed their way. One tall, gaunt old woman, who had not
spoken, but listened, with a face like a stone, to all that the others replied, suddenly threw
her ragged robe over her head and burst into a tempest of tears. Another turned to me a stolid
face, saying, "Gospodin! we do not know what a virgin is!" I saw enough of it before I had
finished to have made the world turn Turcophobe. And twenty years later we hear of the same
fruits of the same régime and, as I found then, Christian statesmen who tolerate it.

I tried to penetrate to the scene of the fighting in Herzegovina, but was on all sides warned
that from Grahovo it was impossible; it was necessary to return to Ragusa. There I learned
that a fight had just taken place on the road between Trebinje and Ragusa. There is a good
carriage road between the two cities, and, in company with two colleagues, and under the guidance
of a daring carriage driver, we went to Trebinje. The plain between the frontier and Trebinje
is a waste of limestone crags and blocks, scattered as if after a combat of Titans, a miserable
stunted vegetation springing between the rocks, capable of hiding thousands of men within a
rifle-shot from the road, and, as we found, actually hiding a good many. But word had been
sent before by our friends the patriots, and we only caught a glimpse of one insurgent, and
saw one dead Turk, a victim of the last skirmish, whose body the garrison had not dared come
out to bury.

We brought the first news the pasha had received in five days. He gave me, for official information,
his version of the late fight, in which old Peko had drawn a convoy of provisions into an ambush
and captured it, killing eighty men of the escort, whose heads one of my colleagues had seen
stuck up on poles at the insurgent camp, but in which the pasha admitted a loss of only twenty
or thirty men. I had seen many Turkish pashas, but never one of that type,--amiable, lethargic,
and quite indisposed to do any harm to anybody, and he could not understand why the insurgents
could not let him alone; he did not want to disturb them. He complained bitterly that ill-disposed
people had been stirring up the population of his province and that, though he had a force
of two thousand men, the disorderly Herzegovinians made it very difficult for his men to go
about. It was really pathetic to hear him. He wished harm to no one; so courteous and civilized-over
was he that one could easily imagine that such officials at Constantinople might give the Turcophile
color to a corps diplomatique. Invited to coffee by the Austrian consul, I heard the views
of a man whose experiences have been equaled by few, for he had been fourteen years at that
post; and he fully confirmed the impressions I had from the refugees at Grahovo. But, on the
other side of the matter, I was really interested in the Turkish troops, so good-natured, so
patient, and not in the least concerned at having been several months besieged and blockaded,
supplies short, and relief not even hoped for. I hated the system, but I could not help liking
its victims on both sides.

Returning to Ragusa, I found Ljubibratich on the point of returning to the insurgents' camp
at Grebci, just over the Austrian frontier, and only about three hours' walk, we were told,
from Ragusa. They came with unrestricted freedom from camp into Ragusa, carried away what supplies
of any kind they needed, and, when ill, came to the hospital of the city. Dalmatia and its
medley of races are still in the Eastern state of activity, in which time is of no account;
and, instead of getting off in the early morning to return before night, as arranged, we left
Ragusa at 2 P.M. We were in October, and the shortening days did not favor long journeys, and
the road was even worse than those in Montenegro. On the way across the frontier the going
was simply climbing a Cyclopean stairway, and we reached the camp only at dusk.

Grebci was an abandoned village of the Herzegovinian population, robbed and maltreated even
here within a rifle-shot of the Austrian territory, and the entire population had taken refuge
across the frontier. There was a reunion of all the bands, amounting to about 900 men, of whom
250 were Montenegrins under old Peko Pavlovich, a wiry, wily, Slavonic Ulysses, who had been
in more than ninety battles with the Turks, and who knew and used every stratagem of this border
warfare. There was Melentie, the fighting Archimandrite of the convent of Duzi; Luka Petcovich,
a Herzegovinian of the Montenegrin frontier, a tried Turk fighter; and the fighting popes of
three villages of Orthodox Christians, Bogdan Simonich, Minje, and Milo. There was a small
band of Italians, with one Frenchman, Barbieux,--one of the bravest of the brave and an ex-Zouave
officer,--ten Russians, and a few Servians. We were in for a night, and had brought no provender,
while all the food in camp was the half of an old goat and some flinty ship's biscuit. The
goat was roasted before the camp-fire, laid on a timber platform, which served for bed by night
and table by day, and hacked to pieces by the yataghans which had come from the battle two
days before. The meat was tough beyond exaggeration, and the biscuit had to be broken with
a stone into small pieces; but we had wine, for this abounded across the frontier and was indispensable.
We heard the story of the fight at Utovu, where the insurgents had been taken in a trap by
treachery of the weak chiefs of a Catholic village, and escaped with the loss of only four
killed, owing to the precautions of the wily Peko, who, like an experienced fox, never went
into a possible trap without seeing the way out of it; but they brought away the visible proofs
of their fight in the noses of fifty-eight Turkish soldiers killed. In the custom of the country
the nose of an enemy stands as the logarithm of his head, which is inconvenient of transportation
in number; and, though the Prince had forbidden the mutilation of the dead, it was impossible
to enforce the prohibition out of Montenegro, and this was the only proof of the actual fruits
of victory permitted by the circumstances.

The Italians sang songs, and the whole band made merry till far into the night, when the correspondents,
the honored guests, to be served with the best of the accommodations, were shown to the abandoned
house of the captain of the village, a stone-built hut, the only one of two stories, which
gave us a board floor to sleep on in the upper story, garnished with a bundle of straw for
each of us, on which we lay down to sleep, tired to exhaustion. My overcoat was my only covering,
and there had been a slight snowfall the day before. I slept, to be awakened ten minutes later
by swarms of fleas so numerous that it was like lying in an ant-hill. Three times in the night
I went out to shake the fleas from my clothing in the cold night air, and when the first daylight
came we turned out and made our way back to Ragusa.

Dissensions and mutual recriminations followed the defeat of Utovu, Peko openly expressing
his disgust with the insurgents of the plain, who were braver when there was no enemy than
when the fighting was imminent, and he marched off to a position in the hilly country nearer
the Montenegrin frontier, leaving Ljubibratich with the men of the low country. The lull brought
into action that Shefket Pasha who, the following year, inaugurated the "Bulgarian atrocities,"
and who, declining to attack the band of Peko, came to vent his prowess on the people of the
Popovo plain, of whom about five thousand had returned from exile in Dalmatia under the guarantee
of the Turkish authorities of freedom from molestation on resuming their ordinary vocations.
These were all Catholics, and the Catholics of Herzegovina and Bosnia have always been submissive,
even to all the rigors of the Turkish rule, while the Orthodox Christians have been the rebels,
the popes being generally the captains in time of war. Shefket, disregarding the guarantees
of his government, marched on the villages of Popovo, killed or carried away prisoners all
the men who did not escape again over the frontier, and allowed the bashi-bazouks to plunder
and ravage. Male children were killed with the men; and the women, abandoning everything they
could not carry, returned to Austrian territory, where I visited them to get the facts of the
matter.

The result was that I decided to go to Mostar and lay the facts before the consuls, who had
been charged to form a commission to investigate and report on the state of things in Herzegovina.
I was joined by the correspondent of "Le Temps" and a Belgian engineer engaged on the new road
beyond Seraievo, and we engaged a courageous coachman to drive us to the capital of Herzegovina,
for timid people would not venture to make the journey, such was the anarchy of the country.
As far as Metcovich we were in Austrian territory, but there we fell into the Asiatic order
of things, meeting a frontier guard of ragged Turkish regulars, to whom the visas on our passports
seemed of small account, in view of their evident desire to regard us as enemies; and all along
the road to Mostar we had the scowling faces of the native Mussulmans bent on us as we passed,
and the few Christians we saw wore an air of harelike timidity.

The city of Mostar is one of the most picturesque I have ever seen. At that time its dirt,
decay, and generally unkempt appearance added to the picturesqueness, but not to the comfort.
We got shelter at a khan, whose owner hardly knew if he dared admit a Christian guest; but
the authority of the English consul, Mr. Holmes, reassured him, and we were admitted to the
society of more fleas than I had considered possible at that time of the year. I had, however,
provided myself with an ample supply of the Dalmatian product known as "flea powder," the triturated
leaves of the red camomile which grows in great perfection all over the mountains of Dalmatia
and Montenegro, as if nature had foreseen that it would be especially needed there, and I slept
in comparative immunity, though my prior experiences in hostelry had never given me an adequate
understanding of the khan filth and discomfort.

I found that the consuls had all been fully informed of the general state of the country and
the treachery exercised by the Turkish commanders, and Holmes told me that he had reported
to the ambassador at Constantinople what he had learned, and that his report had been sent
back with orders to make it less unfavorable to the Turks. Holmes (later Sir William Holmes,
the distinction being well deserved for the courage and honesty with which, though strongly
Turcophile in his tendencies, he exposed the abuses) said to me, relating this fact, "What
can I do? I tell him what I know to be the facts as I have learned them, and he wants me to
change them to make the report more favorable to the Turks!" I put his case before the public
in the "Times," and the honest fellow reaped the reward he deserved, though against the will
of his ambassador.

Here I met again an old Cretan friend, Server Pasha, sent to try the same silly, futile tactics
which so failed in Crete, i.e. offering the insurgents elaborate paper reforms in exchange
for actual submission. He reminded me of the reply of the local commandant of the army at Mostar
when one of the consuls remonstrated at the authorities having taken no action in a case of
peculiarly brutal assassination in the city of Mostar, the author of which had not even been
arrested. The Colonel Bey replied, astonished, to the indignant consul, "Why, haven't we made
a report?" The case was rather a peculiar one: a young Mussulman, having received a present
of a new rifle, went out into the suburbs, and, seeing a Christian boy gathering the grapes
from his mother's vineyard, took a pot shot at him and shot him through the body. The young
assassin was carried in triumph about the town on the shoulders of his playmates, and was never
in any way punished for the crime. I had the story from the surgeon who attended the Christian
boy, and from Mr. Holmes. I took a keen delight in illuminating the intelligent mind of Server
Pasha as to the true condition of the country, telling him what I had seen and reported to
the "Times;" and, as he knew me well, and that I was trustworthy in my reports,--for he knew
how A'ali Pasha had regarded me,--he was in a curious state of mental distress. On his report
to Constantinople, the consul-general at Ragusa, an Italian Levantine called Danish Effendi,
whom I had also known at Syra in the old days, was ordered to make an investigation into the
Popovo atrocities, and, being under the eyes of a large body of correspondents and a Christian
public, he reported confirming my report.

Our return to Ragusa was not entirely free from excitement, for the indigenous Mussulman had
less avidity for prey he saw going into the trap, Mostar, than for that which he saw escaping,
and we had to face small predatory detachments of bashi-bazouks raiding in the country we passed
through, who looked at us with eyes of fire, and muttered in no doubtful language, interpreted
by my colleague of "Le Temps," who knew Turkish, what they would be glad to do with us. As
we sat eating our lunch in the shelter of a hovel by the roadside, while the horses were baiting,
a party of the fanatics watched us with growing malignity and a truculent interchange of sentiments
of an evidently unfriendly nature. To puzzle them as to our status, I took the pains to repeat
in conversation with my colleague the formula of adherence to the faith as it is in Islam,
a scrap of Arabic I had learned in Crete, the repetition of which, according to the rite, is
equivalent to the recognition of Mahomet and his teachings. The effect on them was curious,
and, though they evidently did not consent to regard us as of the true faith, they as evidently
were puzzled, and we went our way unmolested; but I felt more at my ease, I am willing to admit,
when we passed the last Turkish post on the road.

CHAPTER XXVIII

A JOURNEY IN MONTENEGRO AND ALBANIA

Utovu was followed by a lull in military operations; but in the latter part of November, as
the insurgents had beleaguered all the forts in the upper Herzegovina and the town of Niksich
in the debated territory between Montenegro and Herzegovina, Shefket gathered a force of 3000
regulars, with artillery and bashi-bazouks to escort a train of supplies to them. He was met
by Lazar Soeica, the chief of that part of the mountain country, and disastrously defeated
at Muratovizza, leaving behind him 760 dead, and carrying away about 900 wounded, most of whom
died of their wounds, as I learned from one of the European surgeons in the Turkish service
who deserted a little later, dismayed by the constant menaces of death to all Christian employees
in the camp, uttered by the troops, suffering, angry, and continually worsted in the little
fights. Shefket saved himself and his artillery by sending the latter to the rear as soon as
the battle was at its height, and then, having posted a strong rear guard,--the insurgents
having neglected to close the road behind them,--retreating with all possible speed, leaving
the rear guard to be killed or taken, which it was to a man. The insurgents lost fifty-seven
killed and ninety-six seriously wounded, but the result was to throw the whole upper Herzegovina
into their hands, and they captured and destroyed all the small blockhouses and forts not armed
with artillery. The interest now centred on the high mountain district about Niksich, where
I determined to go to watch the operations. The winter was well commenced, but only in the
higher districts was the snow on the ground. I returned, therefore, to Cettinje, where I was
now received as a tried friend.

At the time of which I am now writing there were practically no roads in Montenegro but bridle-paths,
over large stretches of which it was unsafe to ride, even the Montenegrins dismounting, whether
going up or down. That passage between Cettinje and Rieka, on the Lake of Scutari, was one
of the worst I have ever found in the principality. The lower part, nearing Rieka, was simply
a Cyclopean stairway, with rocky steps so high that the horses had to jump down from one to
another. My cavalcade consisted of a Montenegrin soldier for guide, a Montenegrin student,
and the horse-boy, necessary to lead the horses when, as was the case for a large part of the
way, we could not ride them; and halfway down to Rieka we were overtaken by a deaf-mute porter,
sent as a kind afterthought by the Prince, with a samovar and a provision of tea, sugar, etc.,
in view of the dearth of comforts beyond. I carried an order for shelter and such fare as was
obtainable at Rieka, in the little house of the Prince at that village, and we passed a comfortable
night, but found the succeeding day the opening of one of the spells of rainy weather of which
only one who has lived in the principality much can know the inconvenience. To wait in the
half-furnished house with no resources was worse than going out in the rain, although I had
no protection other than a cape of my own manufacture, a circle of the thinnest india-rubber
cloth, with a hole cut in the middle for my head, and covering my arms to the wrists.

Hoping for the rain to stop, we waited till nine A.M., when a break in the clouds flattered
us into starting for Danilograd, to be caught in another downpour an hour later. The way was
down a long slope, part mud and part broken rock, over which in either case we found the traveling
easier on foot than on horseback, so that we did most of the way on foot while daylight lasted,
the unfortunate porter between the cavalry and the infantry struggling, slipping, and moaning
in his inarticulate way in great physical distress. We had continually to stop and wait for
the horses to overtake us until the long descent was accomplished, by which time the twilight
had come, and we found ourselves in the valley of the Suchitza, a wide waste of clay soil saturated
with rain, and two hours' ride in ordinary condition of the roads from any shelter. The steady
rain in which we had traveled for eight hours then became a violent thunder-storm; all the
brooks and ditches by the way were over their banks, and our horses could hardly flounder under
their loads through the heavy going; while we, in the darkness, could not see the road, even
where it could he followed, save when the lightning flashes showed it, and so, not being able
to walk, rode perforce. My horse refused a ditch a foot wide, and when we came to one I had
to get off and drag by the bridle, while the horse-boy pushed from behind, till he yielded
to the persuasion and ventured over. The two hours' ride became four, and the way got heavier
as we went on, woodland alternating with flooded plain, in the former of which only the experience
of the guide could keep the road; while in the latter we could follow it only by the telegraph
wires cutting against the sky. We finally saw a light and came to a cabin, where we deposited
the poor mute, with all the impedimenta, to follow by daylight; but for us there was no place
to sleep, and we gave the reins to the horses, and let them flounder their way into Danilograd,
where we arrived at 10 P.M., drenched to the skin and hungry.

There was a light still burning in the house of the village doctor, on whom we had an order
from the Prince, and who found us a sleeping-place in the loft of a neighbor, where we got
a supper of trout and maize bread, and a bundle of straw to lie on in our wet clothes. The
doctor was a German, and, though he was an official, the instinct of hospitality which rules
the Montenegrin did not exist in him, so he offered us the house of his neighbor. The day broke
fine for our journey to the convent of Ostrog, the only bit of good weather we had until our
return to Cettinje, ten days later.

Ostrog is one of the three sanctuaries of Montenegro, the others being Moratcha, on the old
Servian frontier, and Piperski Celia, above the fortress of Spuz, where the valley of the Zeta
then entered into the Turkish dominions. The convent is on a site of singular beauty and salubrity,
on a fertile plateau several hundred feet above the valley of the Zeta, at the foot of a precipice,
in the face of which is a cave enlarged into a chapel, where lies the body of St. Basil, a
Herzegovinian bishop of the early days of the Turkish conquest, who did his Christian duty
by the scattered Orthodox Christians in Herzegovina and Montenegro, visiting stealthily and
at the constant risk of his life the little groups of the faithful over a territory vast for
the supervision of one man. He died in this refuge, and was buried at the foot of the cliff;
but on an attempt being made to remove the body some years later, it was found to be uncorrupted,
upon which he was canonized, and the body was placed in a fine coffin and removed to the little
chapel, which has a single window also rock-cut and is only to be approached by a narrow stairway
of the same structure. Outside, at the foot of the cliff, is the convent, in which reside two
or three priests and as many kalogheri, constituting the community, for the convents of the
Orthodox church are not communities of idle devotees, but of men who are mostly engaged in
the culture of the land belonging to the convent, when not engaged in the performance of the
rites of the church. The hegumenos I found to be more a man of war than one of ritual, and
really the commander of an outpost of observation on the frontier towards Niksich. He delighted
more in arms than in the mass, and I made a firm friend of him by the gift of a small Colt's
revolver. I was permitted to see the body of St. Basil in the chapel, which was filled with
a fragrance like that of cedar wood, which I naïvely attributed to the wood of the coffin,
when the attendant protested with indignation that what I smelled was the odor of sanctity.
I was incompetent to distinguish it. St. Basil is held in great reverence for his miracles,
and immense numbers of pilgrims come to his annual festa with their sick from all the country
round, even Mussulman families from Albania paying their devotions in the hope and faith of
cures, and it is said that many miracles take place every year.

In this hermitage Mirko, the father of the Prince, in company with thirty-two of his voivodes,
was once besieged by a large body of Turks, but repelled all attacks for nineteen days, with
the loss of only two men, killed by shots which passed through the window. One of the garrison
descended by a rope to bury one of the dead, and, this accomplished, made his way by night
through the Turkish army and carried the news of the siege to Danilo, then the reigning prince,
who raised an army and dispersed the Turkish forces. During the siege, two parties of Mussulmans,
mistaking each other for relief parties of Christians, attacked each other with great slaughter,
an event which was considered to be the effect of the intervention of St. Basil.

The hegumenos strongly opposed my attempt to penetrate to Niksich, assuring me that the plain
was so infested by bands of Turks that it was to the last degree unsafe to travel on the road,
the truth being that the city was beleaguered by Montenegrin bands, a fact which he desired
to conceal. This, I was convinced, was the real reason of his opposition; but, to strengthen
his argument, the rain, which had lifted for the one day of the journey from Danilograd, changed
into snow in the mountains, and made the attempt impossible. We waited several days at the
convent, and, as the rain and snow were insistent, and Niksich too difficult of access, I decided
to turn the other way and go to Scutari by land. Returning to Danilograd, I learned that this
was practically impossible, the road beyond Podgoritza being not only dangerous for persons,
but impracticable for beasts, as the country was under water. No Montenegrin would venture
into the Turkish territory with the certainty of incurring decapitation,--if not in my company,
at any rate on his return without me; so, on consultation with the sirdar in command at Danilograd,
I sent back to Cettinje the horses we had come with, and hired those of a rayah of Podgoritza
who had come to market at Danilograd, intending to go to Podgoritza, where we should hire other
horses to Plamnitza, on the lake shore, whence we could proceed by water to Scutari. I telegraphed
the Prince to send his steam launch to meet me at Plamnitza; and, as my interpreter, the Montenegrin
student, determined to run the risks of decapitation and go with me, I imposed on him a European
costume, took away his revolver as a safeguard against dangerous excitement, put him under
severe charge not to show that he understood the Serb language, and started in a pouring rain.

The road to Spuz was unique. Now that Montenegro has entered into possession of the region,
there is a carriage road, but the ancient one was a pavement of the days of Dushan which now
ran along the top of a ridge like a hog-back in the middle of the road, on each side of which
the track had been worn down by travel until the original road was as high as the backs of
our horses above the actual track each side of it. At the gate of Spuz we were stopped and
our passports were demanded. Mine had been visaed at Ragusa for Mostar, and Gosdanovich had
the Russian passport, which is freely accorded to all Montenegrins. The sentinel could read
neither, and sent them to the konak with a demand for instructions. Meanwhile the guard turned
out to laugh at us sitting on our market horses in the pouring rain, our saddles being only
blankets fastened on the pack saddles, on which we were perched high, the rain pouring off
from every extremity of our costumes. The messenger brought word to send us to the police office,
and there we went.

A binbashi, grave, polite, and curious, invited us to be seated and ordered coffee. He could
speak only Turkish, and I tried English, French, and Italian in vain, when a bright Albanian
lieutenant standing by made a remark in Romaic, and for the needs of the case I caught on.
He knew much less Romaic than I, but I could make him understand that I was the correspondent
of an English journal going to Scutari, etc., etc. Gosdanovich played his part well, and was
as stolid as an ox, though the conversation, which he understood, between the Mussulman Serbs
present was not at all cheering. "Bah!" said one of the secretaries who sat writing on the
mat beside the bimbashi, "I can kill twenty such men as that with a stick, and should like
to do it--such rubbish as they are--I should like to send them all to the devil." "So should
I," replied the other. Then one of them suggested that, though I was evidently a stranger,
he felt sure he had seen Gosdanovich in Cettinje. "Impossible!" replied the other; "no Montenegrin
would dare to come here now." Finally came the doctor, an Italian, and we had an excursion
into general politics, after which another coffee and cigarette, and then, with the visa of
the bimbashi, we were permitted to move on to Podgoritza.

We had no further adventure on the road, and early in the afternoon arrived at Podgoritza,
an ancient Servian city, much dilapidated and very picturesque, taking lodgings at an inn kept
by a Christian, a rather creditable establishment but absolutely empty of guests. We waited
half an hour for the food and fire I ordered (for we were wet and fasting), when my guide returned
and said that there were no lodgings there, but that the chief of police would provide us,
and that we were to accompany him to the police office. There we were allowed to dry ourselves
over a huge brazier full of glowing coals, while the zapties cleaned out the adjoining room,
a closet about ten by fourteen feet, in which the dust of years lay accumulated and to all
appearance undisturbed. This was simply a cell in the police prison, and there we ate what
the miralai saw fit to order for us. Our passports were again examined and discussed, and we
were reëxamined as to our whence and whither and wherefore by the aid of two or three Catholic
Albanians of the vicinity, who did what they could to find out if we had any secret business,
professing to be themselves the victims of the oppression of the Turks, and sympathizing with
us. They did not draw me, however, and I professed no anxiety as to my treatment.

The miralai finally gave over his search for hostile motive in our visit, and we discussed
the programme for the morrow. I found that there was a healthy fear of the Prince of Montenegro,
for, when I told him that the Prince's little steamer would be waiting for me at Plamnitza
the next day at noon, the whole circle broke out in wonder if it could be true that the Prince
took so much interest in us, for if so, they must be prudent. We had the interesting advantage
in that Gosdanovich understood all that they said as they talked Serb to each other, for they
were a mixed company, and mostly of that race, and they supposed that he was a Russian and
I an Englishman, and that both of us were ignorant of their language. If, they finally agreed,
the Prince of Montenegro would send his steamer for me, I must be a person of greater distinction
than they thought me, and they must be careful. So the miralai called the chief of the zapties,
and in our presence gave him his charge, viz., to escort us to Plamnitza, leaving by early
light, and, if the steamer did not come for us, to bring us back to the prison he took us from,
and to kill us on the spot if we attempted to escape. And so to sleep, as far as the crowing
of many cocks outside and the activity of multitudinous fleas within would permit; and to make
sure of us, we were locked in--fairly at last in a Turkish prison.

The morning broke with the rain pouring in torrents. I had tried to buy a pair of shoes before
going to sleep, but they brought me a pair for a boy of twelve and assured me that there were
no others in the town, and those I had come with were in tatters which were hardly to be kept
on my feet. The mud was indescribable,--the entire country flooded, and all the bridges across
a river we must pass carried away, except one over a narrow gorge where the rocks approached
so closely that a couple of logs reached from side to side, and over these the horses must
be led. To say that I was at ease on this trip would be exaggeration, the more as the zaptie-bimbashi
talked freely to his subordinate about us, and vented his rage at being obliged to make such
a journey for two beastly infidels, to whom the only grateful service he could render was decapitation.
However, we reached the lake, to find the steamer waiting, tied to the top of one of the largest
oaks a half mile from the actual shore, for the country was so inundated that we floated over
entire villages as we boated out to it. I delighted the heart of the bimbashi by a baksheesh
of half a napoleon, which so astonished him that he hardly knew how to express himself, after
all his bitter words and unkind intentions. I was later convinced that if the Turkish authorities
had known who I was,--their old enemy in Crete,--we should not have come out alive from Podgoritza.
In fact, when Danish Effendi at Ragusa heard that I had been put in prison in Albania he exclaimed,
"If I had been there it is not only a night in prison he would have had, but a file of soldiers
at daylight."

Our steamer had come, however, not to carry me to Scutari, but, and perhaps fortunately, to
take me back to Rieka, whence I had to go to Cettinje to get a refit, for I was ragged, bootless
as my errand to Scutari, and draggled with mud from head to foot; notwithstanding which, as
soon as the Prince had learned of my arrival, though in the midst of a diplomatic dinner, he
sent for me to come to the palace, and made me sit down with the company as I was and tell
my story. I had to wait a few days for the voyage to Scutari, profiting by the occasion of
the return of some engineers and the French consul at that place. We found the town flooded,
a fisherman by the side of one of the streets showing us a fine string of fish which he had
caught in the roadside ditch. Decay, neglect, and utter demoralization were written large on
the general aspect of the capital of one of the most important of the provinces of the Turkish
Empire in Europe, i.e. important to Turkey. The magnificent country around Scutari for miles
on miles square--most fertile ground, producing, beside wheat, the finest tobacco known for
cigarettes generally sold as of Cavalla (and how many nervous hours I have soothed with it
during these campaigns), and enormous crops of maize--lies a large part of the time every year
under water, as I had found it, for the sole reason that the Drin, which ought to empty into
the sea below the Boyana (the outlet of the Lake of Scutari, the Moratcha, etc.), has built
a bar by its floods and abandoned its proper course, emptying into the lake a flood which the
Boyana is incapable of managing.

The fortress was a relic of Dushan, little mended by the Turk, and had been three times struck
by lightning, the magazine each time exploding (once while I was in Montenegro), only because
the Turkish government, in putting up the lightning-rod and finding the supply of rod short,
had pieced it out with telegraph wire. The body of the rod had fulfilled its destiny in attracting
the lightning, while the telegraph wire, not being able to carry the load brought to it, had
discharged it into the magazine. And, when I saw it, the wire was still inviting another disaster.
I found in Eshref Pasha a most interesting and amiable personage, out of his place completely
in the management of a turbulent and really hostile Christian population, with whom his very
best qualities were a disqualification. Eshref was a poet, a dreamer, and, I was told, the
second man of letters in the empire. He laughingly asked me if I had been at Podgoritza, and
I as good-humoredly replied that I had not come to complain of my treatment there, but to pay
my compliments to a fellow man of letters. His broad, good-natured face lighted up with pleasure,
and, dropping politics and fighting, we talked poetry and letters. Secretaries and messengers
were coming and going with papers to be signed, or orders to be given, and we could talk only
by interludes. I remarked that he must have little time for letters in all this complication
of cares, and he replied that "poetry was his refuge in the night when he was unable to sleep;
he had no other time." I tried to get a sample of his verse, and he recited me one, of which
I could judge only by the sound, which was very musical; but to my urging for a copy for publication
in England he objected that translators were not good for the reputation of a poet, which we
all know. I assured him of the entire competence of literary London to render him the completest
justice, and he finally yielded in the spirit to my solicitations, but put them to the rout
in the letter; for, though he promised the script for the next morning, it never came. It is
curious that Eshref fell through his good faith, for when, a few months later, the Porte issued
an irade asking for indication of the reforms needed in the provinces, he replied by calling
the population to formulate their wants, which they did, asking for the reopening of the Drin
so as to facilitate the draining of the Lake of Scutari, the making of roads and a railway
from Scutari to Antivari on the seacoast. The Porte, unaccustomed to be taken at its word,
recalled the poet, who shared the fate of his great predecessor Ovid.

CHAPTER XXIX

WAR CORRESPONDENCE AT RAGUSA

The splendid victory of Muratovizza led to the recall of our old enemy Shefket Pasha, who was
sent to Bulgaria and replaced in the Herzegovina by a more competent and humane man, an old
friend of Cretan days, Raouf Pasha, one of the most competent and liberal Circassian officers
in the service of the Sultan. Of the operations which followed I have no direct cognizance,
and I am not writing the history of the war, except as it mingles with my own experiences.
The lull that followed the change of command left me time to study Montenegro and its people,
and I made many friends. The battle at Muratovizza had developed a quarrel between Socica,
who commanded there with a most distinguished ability, and old Peko Pavlovich, who had refused
his coöperation in the battle, to the great diminution of the consequences of the victory.
Peko had now come to follow the suggestions of the Russian consulate at Ragusa, from which
his fortunate rival would accept no indications. The Russian Slavonic committees had begun
to work, and their contributions and influence, more than the direct action of their government,
gradually brought the whole movement under Russian influence. I noticed here again what had
happened in Crete, that the Russian agents, profiting by the irresponsibility which must always
be the accompaniment of a despotic government so extensive as that of Russia, acted without
orders and on their own inspiration, sometimes with disastrous results. The personal rivalry
between Derché and his Russian colleague in the beginnings of the Cretan troubles had, I have
no doubt, a much greater influence on the event of all the negotiations than any desire of
the Russian government to provoke an insurrection, and so here the feuds that arose between
the agents of the Slavonic committees and the consulate at Ragusa no doubt refracted the intentions
of the authorities at St. Petersburg more than was suspected.

There is no doubt that Jonine, on his own responsibility and in opposition to the wishes of
the Czar, did what he could to stimulate the movement in Herzegovina, and that this was the
tendency of all the Russian agents in the Balkans. Of this I had many opportunities of assuring
myself, and, as I sympathized in that feeling, I had no difficulty in finding it where it existed.
Those agents systematically provoked hostility to Turkey, which was natural and consistent
with the good of the people, for the Turkish abuses are incurable and always merit rebellion,
but also against Austria, which was unjust and aggravated the trouble of the rayahs needlessly.
The Slavonic committees in Russia, too, went far beyond the desire of the government, and there
were continual rivalries between them and the consular agents, the latter feeling obliged to
outbid the committees to keep their influence. They had, generally, the mania of activity and
zeal, and commonly went beyond their orders, trusting that if the luck followed them they would
be approved, and if it deserted them they would find protection in the surroundings of the
throne, as they generally did, activity in the Slavonic cause covering many sins against discipline.
During the lull after the defeat of Servia (to anticipate a little the course of my narrative),
I made the acquaintance of the Russian General Tcherniaieff at an English watering-place. We
became great friends, for personally I have always liked the Russians, and he told me with
no little glee how he had outwitted the Czar, who, learning that he intended to go to Herzegovina
to fight, called him and made him swear that he would not go to "fight with those brigands,
the Herzegovinians." He swore, and then went, evading the surveillance of the police and with
a false passport, to Belgrade, where he gave himself to inciting the Servians to war, and,
when Servia declared war the following spring, he commanded the army. So he never came to Herzegovina
or to Montenegro, and he was personally hostile to the Prince, as I found most Russian officers
to be. But he assured me that the Czar was bitterly opposed to the movement, and that if it
had been suspected that he was going to the Balkans he would have been arrested. The prudence
of the Czar is always in danger of being nullified by the imprudence of his agents.

The pressure of the Turkish government on Montenegro became severe, and the Prince, in the
failure of Servia to respond to the Montenegrin proposals to fight it out, was unwilling to
take the responsibility of a war. But the Sultan inclined to war so strongly that Raouf Pasha,
who advised him that his army was not prepared for it, was recalled, partly on account of that
advice, and partly because he declared that the insurrection was to a great extent justified
by the bad government of Bosnia, and was replaced by Achmet Mukhtar, later the Ghazi, who came
breathing flames and extermination. The bands of Montenegrins were ordered to leave the frontier
of the principality, and came down to the vicinity of Ragusa; and as the interest at Cettinje
diminished I followed the war. The winter set in with great and unremembered rigor, the refugees
suffered the greatest misery, and many of the Turkish troops in the high mountain country died
of exposure. I saw deserters at Ragusa who declared that there would be very general desertion
were it not that the troops were assured, and believed, that, if they deserted, the Austrian
authorities would certainly send them back to their regiments.

Before this the "Times" had come to the conclusion that the movement had come to stay awhile,
and I was informed that I should be henceforward placed in the position of its special correspondent.
As I had thoroughly mastered the field and enjoyed the confidence and friendship of the Prince,
I had, as long as the war lasted, no rival on the English press. The suffering amongst the
families of the Herzegovinians, exiled almost en masse into Dalmatia and Montenegro, was very
great; but the influence of the letters which appeared in the "Times" produced a wide and happy
charitable movement, and I received at Ragusa supplies of money and clothing, which made the
wretched Christians bless England continually. I had a sharp attack of bronchitis from the
absolute impossibility of finding quarters where I could do my work in a tolerable comfort;
for the usual mildness of the climate of Dalmatia leaves every house unprovided for the cold,
which that winter was unprecedentedly severe. I used to sit at my writing-table wrapped in
all the blankets I could keep on me. Fireplaces seemed to be unknown.

On the Greek Christmas (January 6) I met at the house of Colonel Monteverde, the agent of the
Russian committees, a number of the insurgent chiefs who had come in for a consultation, the
forces of the insurrection having separated into two general commands in consequence of the
quarrel between Peko and Socica. Socica remained in supreme command in the mountainous Piva
district, now buried under the snow, and Peko took the direction in the lower country, and
established himself at the old camp at Grebci, driving Ljubibratich and his Herzegovinians
out of the field. Peko had then a force of about 1500 men, and Mukhtar did not attempt an attack,
but, having made a military promenade through the lower Herzegovina, went back to Mostar and
into comfortable winter quarters. Peko took position astride the road from Ragusa to Trebinje,
and held the latter place effectually blockaded. A provision train was about to leave Ragusa,
and a force of five battalions of Turkish regulars, with 400 irregulars and six guns, was sent
from Trebinje as escort. A force of two companies was posted on two hills commanding the road
about midway, and, though Peko had decided to wait for the train, he, being a natural strategist,
saw that this force must be disposed of to give him a clear field. He accordingly attacked
the main body and drove it back to Trebinje with a loss of 250 men (counted by the noses brought
in). He then put a cordon around the posts on the hills, lest the men should escape in the
night, and, having prepared for an assault the next morning, sent us word to join him. He promised
to send us horses for the journey at daylight, and we went to the rendezvous breakfastless,
not to lose time, but he forgot us, and, after waiting for the horses till past 8 A.M., we
set out on foot.

The snow lay a few inches deep, but the sun had come out strong, and it was melted in patches,
so that we stepped alternately in mud and in snow, slipping and picking our way in the best
haste we might until 2 P.M., when we arrived at Vukovich, a tiny village where Peko had his
headquarters for the moment, the entire population having taken refuge across the frontier.
Here the Russians had established an ambulance, and we found the wounded coming in, and some
young Russian medical students dressing the wounds. We could hear the firing, and the echoes
of it rolling around the hills, and even the shouting of the chiefs in the, to us, inarticulate
insults to the enemy and encouragement to their own men. One of the surgeons took his rifle
and offered himself as guide to the battlefield.

Vukovich is in a deep hollow, and, as we rose on the ridge that separated it from the higher
land on which the fight was going on, a rifle ball sung over my head and went on into the village.
Others followed, some plunging into the earth near us, and some striking the rocks. We were
just in the range of the insurgents, who were fighting up hill on the farther side of the hill,
round the summit of which was the circle of breastworks held by the doomed Turkish force, and
the bullets of the assailants ranged over to us. It was my first experience under a prolonged
fire, though not of being fired at, and I must admit that it put me in a terrible funk. I put
the largest Montenegrin of the group which accompanied us between myself and the firing party.
I had not eaten a crumb since the day before, or taken even a cup of coffee, and my legs were
in cramp from the hard walking for six hours in mud and snow, and I was ready to drop from
fatigue and hunger. One of the chiefs who came by on his way to the ambulance, where the ghastly
procession of wounded was now coming in, seeing me pale and exhausted, offered me his flask
of slievovits (plum brandy), of which I drank a half-tumbler raw. The effect was marvelous,
and enabled me clearly to understand the meaning of the familiar term "Dutch courage," so that
I watched from afar the fight to the end without a return of funk.

The Turks were entrenched within a double line of stone wall, concentric, and the insurgents
were fighting upwards, and when we came on the scene the fighting was still at the lower wall.
Presently there was a more rapid firing, then a moment's lull, and then the firing broke out
again from the upper breastwork. The insurgents had charged and carried the lower line and
reversed it, and the poor Turks surviving were driven into the inner circle of about a hundred
feet in diameter, out of which not one could hope to come alive. The rest of the garrison of
Trebinje were so cowed by the result of the fighting the day before that they dared not come
out to the relief of their comrades.

And so the night fell on us, and the bands returned to their camp, leaving a cordon to pen
in the few remaining Turks. We had many wounded, and a few killed, amongst whom was Maxime
Bacevich, voivode of Baniani, and a cousin of the Prince of Montenegro, one of the bravest
of the brave, whose death was moaned over by all as we gathered together that night in the
large hut that served as headquarters. It was a stone cabin of one room, at one end the stall
for the cattle, and in the centre a fireplace, the smoke from which went out by a hole in the
roof. Three sides of the room were surrounded by a stone platform, wide enough for the tallest
man to lie with his feet to the fire; but there was no furniture, not even a bundle of straw.
This was the bed of fifty men, lying side by side on the bare stone, my pillow being my felt
hat, and my bedding my overcoat. The fire was hot, and the smell indescribable,--fifty pairs
of dirty feet, and the bodies of fifty men, most of whom had not washed for a month, with the
cattle stall at the end,--that was our lodging; but, tired as I was, I slept. At daylight the
scouts came in to tell us that in the night the little body of Turks had escaped, probably
through a sleeping cordon, and scattered up and down along the road between Ragusa and Trebinje,
the most of them having been caught and killed as they ran. There was no mercy in this war,
and a man who was left behind was a dead man. One of the fugitives had nearly reached Trebinje
when he was met in the way by a Herzegovinian, of whom he begged for quarter in the usual Turkish
form, "aman" (mercy), to which the Herzegovinian replied "taman" (enough), and cut him down.

A week or more elapsed before Mukhtar Pasha, hurrying from Mostar, could concentrate troops
enough to clear the road and provision Trebinje, and then he succeeded only by the most infantile
blunders on the part of the Christian forces. From that time until the spring there was a succession
of isolated conflicts with no connection, the Turks attempting to provision the little fortresses
in the mountains, and the insurgents to damage the Turks as much as opportunity permitted.
The powers were by this time thoroughly aroused, and the Austrian intervention followed. Baron
Rodich, the governor of Dalmatia, called a conference of the insurgent chiefs at Sutorina to
arrange a pacification. I went to see Rodich, a shrewd, precise functionary, liberal, as far
as one could well be in his position, and I saw at once that, while he was determined to obey
his orders, and urge a pacification because it was in accordance with his orders, he had no
faith in success, and had a great sympathy with the insurgents. He was peremptory, and had
a soldier-like aversion to special correspondents; but he was very just, and might have done
much had the situation admitted any other result than the fighting it out. The Turks would
make no concession and admit no reverse, and the insurgents, having been victorious in three
out of four combats, and having brought the Turkish forces into the most desperate demoralization
(as I was able to learn by the Turkish deserters who came daily into Ragusa), were not in the
least disposed to relinquish the hold on the position they had won. In the rude shelter obtainable
within the Austrian territory there were thousands of women, children, and wounded men, supported
by the charity of Europe, now largely excited, leaving the active insurgents free for their
operations.

At Ragusa I watched the course of events with informants in every part of the field of action,
having become by this time regarded as the unflinching friend of the insurrection, to whom
all good Slavs were under obligation of service. I then made the acquaintance and acquired
the friendship of that admirable diplomat whose subsequent career and mine have repeatedly
crossed each other, Sir Edward Monson, then diplomatic agent at Ragusa, and of a brave and
good soldier, the Austrian commander, General Ivanovich, of whom and of whose excellent family
I have the most delightful recollections, and whose society during all the time I remained
in Ragusa was my sole social refuge from the wretched life of a special correspondent in half-civilized
regions. It was a poetic and attractive household, and the light of it, the beauty of Madame
Ivanovich and her two daughters, and the serenity which fell on me when I entered it, remain
in my memory as the sunny oasis in the life of that period. Then, too, I made the acquaintance
of an eminent scholar who was to be for many years after the stanchest of friends and allies,
Professor Freeman, the great historian, but greater humanitarian, whose too early death I still
feel to be my great personal loss. He had two companions, of whom one was Lord Morley, who
had come to Ragusa to see what there was in the affair of the Herzegovina; and to their impressions
was no doubt due much of the weight given to the "Times" reports subsequently.

Between fruitless negotiations, attempts to delude the insurgents by insincere promises, and
the greatest efforts on the part of my soi-disant friend, Danish Effendi, to win over the body
of correspondents by this time collected at Ragusa (he told me in so many words that he had
informed the Turkish government that my pen was worth 40,000 francs to it), the rest of the
winter passed away quietly. It was evident that war would be declared in the spring between
the principalities and Turkey, and I went home thoroughly worn out and ill. I went by the way
of Venice, and had my first sight of the city coming in at early morning from Trieste by steamer.
Accustomed as I had been to the color of Turner as the aspect of the Grand Canal, it seemed
to me that what I saw from the steamer was the ghost of Venice, pallid, wan, faded to tints
which were only the suggestion of Turner's, but still lovely in their fading, and the impression
was more pathetic than it would have been with all the glow of the great Englishman's palette.
My wife met me at the steamer, and we went home by short stages, for I was too weak to bear
a long railway journey.

CHAPTER XXX

THE WAR OF 1876

I returned to Montenegro in the following June, after the diplomacy of Europe had vainly and
discordantly discussed mediation all the winter. An armistice had suspended hostilities, but
the Turks continued the concentration of troops on the frontiers of the principality, north
and south, and refused the conditions of the Prince for a peaceful solution. Everything waited
for the acceptance by Servia of the programme for the war which was to be declared by the principalities
against Turkey. The official declaration of war took place on the 2d of July, and on the 3d
the Prince set out with flying banners for the conquest of the Herzegovina. My orders being
to remain in touch with the telegraph, I had to resign the pleasure of the campaign, and I
passed the time in studying up accessories. The Prince started directly for Mostar, accompanied
by the Austrian military attaché, Colonel Thoemel, one of the most intensely anti-Montenegrin
Austrian officials I ever met. If the Austrian government had intended to inflict on the Prince
the most humiliating censor in its service, and make the relations between the governments
as bad as possible, they could not have chosen an agent more effective than Thoemel. In his
hatred of Montenegro and enjoyment of the fortiter in re, he entirely threw off the suaviter
in modo. He enjoyed intensely every petty humiliation he could inflict on the Prince, who,
with the greatest tact, never noticed his rudeness. The maintenance of good relations with
Austria tasked the Prince's diplomacy to the utmost. As I saw nothing of the campaign, I will
dispose of it by saying that, when the Prince had nearly reached Mostar, the colonel informed
him officially that if he took Mostar he would be driven out of it by the Austrian army, and,
after a slight skirmish on the hills commanding the city, the Prince took the road towards
Trebinje. Meanwhile the operations on the southern frontier, under the direction of the amiable
and competent Bozo Petrovich, remained for my observation.

One of the chiefs of clans who were waiting at Cettinje for the plan of the southern campaign
was Marko Millianoff, hereditary chief of the Kutchi, an independent Slav tribe on the borders
of Albania, generally allied in the frontier operations with the Montenegrins. The Turks desired
particularly to subdue this people in the outset of the campaign, as their territory commanded
the upper road from Podgoritza to Danilograd, and hostilities commenced with an attack on them.
While waiting I made the acquaintance of Marko, whom I found to be one of the most interesting
characters I met in Montenegro. His courage and resource in stratagem were proverbial in the
principality. I had a capital Ross field-glass, and amused him one day by showing its powers.
He had never seen a telescope before, and his delight over it was childlike. "Why," he exclaimed
in rapture, "this is worth a thousand men." "Then take it," I said, "and I hope it will prove
worth a thousand men." His force of 2500 men was then blockading the little fortress of Medun,
a remotely detached item of the defensive system of Podgoritza, and on the next day he set
out for his post.

I saw him some months later, and he told me that when the great sortie from Podgoritza to relieve
Medun came in view of the blockading force, though at a distance of several miles, his men
declared that they could not fight that immense army, which filled the valley with its numbers
and had the appearance of a force many times greater than their own. Marko looked at it through
the glass and found it to be mainly a provision train, for Medun was on the verge of starvation,
the garrison having "shaken out the last grain of rice from their bags," to use the expression
of the moment. When Marko's men found the actual number of fighting men in the Turkish sortie,
they decided to fight it out. They didn't mind ten to one, they said, but much more than that
had appeared to confront them. The Turks, commanded by Mahmoud Pasha, a good Hungarian general,
were about 20,000 men,--as I afterwards learned from various sources, including the English
consulate at Scutari,--comprising 7000 Zebeks, barbarians from the country back of Smyrna,
accustomed to the yataghan, and supposed to be qualified opponents of the Montenegrins in the
employment of the cold steel. Marko fought retreating from the morning until about 2 P.M.,
when the Turks stopped to eat, having driven the Montenegrin force back and toward Medun about
three miles. When the Turks had eaten and began to smoke, Millianoff gave the word to charge;
and though the Turks had built thirteen breastworks to fall back on as they advanced, they
yielded to the vigorous assault of the first line, and the Montenegrins swept through the whole
series with a rush, not permitting the Turks to form again or gather behind one, and drove
those who escaped under the walls of Podgoritza, leaving 4700 dead on the way, for no prisoners
were taken. Millianoff said, when I saw him again, "Your glass saved us the battle," which
was virtually the preservation of the independence of the tribe, and possibly the decision
of the campaign on that side. The fortress was obliged, a little later, to surrender, and in
the subsequent siege of Niksich the artillery taken at Medun served a very good purpose, being
heavier than anything the Montenegrins had.

I had secured for correspondent with the Prince the services of his Swiss secretary, an excellent
fellow by the name of Duby; and, as all the interest of the war for the moment lay in the campaign
of the Prince against Mostar and its consequences, I arranged to have my news at Ragusa by
telegraph, and there I went for the time being. On the 28th of July I received at 11 P.M. the
news of the battle of Vucidol, in which the army of Mukhtar Pasha was routed and nearly destroyed,
Mukhtar himself barely escaping by the speed of his horse, entering the gate of Bilek only
a hundred yards in advance of his foremost pursuer, his wounded horse falling in the gateway.
Of his two brigadiers, one, Selim Pasha, a most competent and prudent general, was killed,
and the other, Osman Pasha, the Circassian, taken prisoner. He lost all his artillery, and
thirteen out of twenty-five battalions of regulars, two hundred prisoners being taken; but
while these were en route to Cettinje they became alarmed and showed a disposition to be refractory,
and were put to death at once by the escort. The ways of warfare in those parts were, in spite
of all the orders of the Prince, utterly uncivilized, the Montenegrin wounded being always
put to death if they fell into the hands of the enemy, and no quarter being given in battle
by the Montenegrins, though Turks who surrendered in a siege were kept as prisoners during
the war. I had seen Mukhtar at Ragusa during the conference at the time of the armistice, and
he bore out in his personal appearance the description which Osman Pasha gave of him,--dreamy,
fanatical, ascetic, who gave his confidence to no one, and who said, when Selim proposed a
council of war before Vucidol, "If my fez knew what was in my head I would burn it," and refused
to listen to the cautionary measures Selim advised preliminary to the attack. The ascetic and
the fanatic was written in his face. Returning to Cettinje, I found Osman there a prisoner
on parole, and at my intercession he was permitted to accompany me to Ragusa, where I returned
after a few days, life in Montenegro being intolerably dull except during the fighting.

The next movement on the part of the Turks, which was expected to be one by Dervish Pasha,
from the base of Podgoritza towards Cettinje, called me into the field again. We took position
along the heights of Koumani, on the verge of the great table-land which intervenes between
Rieka and Danilograd, and from which we could see the Turkish camps spread out on the plain
below us; and if the Turks had but known where we were, they might have thrown their shells
from the blockhouses in the plain into our camp. There was no attack for the moment, and the
scouts of the Montenegrins used to amuse themselves by arousing the Turkish camps in the night
or by stealing the horses and mules from the guards set over them. A band of seven stole, during
this suspension of operations, forty horses and brought them into the camp, and one, more cunning
and light-footed than the rest, stole the pasha's favorite horse from the tent where he was
guarded by two soldiers sleeping at the entrance, and brought him to the Prince at Koumani.
He had to take the precaution of wrapping the creature's hoofs in rags before bringing him
out of the tent. When the object was to stir the Turks out of their rest, a half-dozen men
would crawl up to the stone wall which they invariably threw up around the camp, and lay their
rifles on it, for there was never a sentry set, and fire rapidly into the tents as many shots
as they could before rousing the camp, and then scatter and run. The whole battalion would
turn out and continue firing in every direction over the country for half an hour, while the
artillery, as soon as the guns could be manned, followed the example, and almost every night
we were roused from our sleep by the booming of the guns.

The early collapse of the Servian defense led, after some negotiations, to a truce, and diplomacy
took up the matter, and in September I went home again. The "Times" correspondence had given
the Montenegrin question serious importance in England, and during the winter I had several
opportunities to discuss it with men of influence, amongst whom were Gladstone and the Marquis
of Bath, who invited me to pass some days at Longleat to inform him more completely on it.
During my last stay in Montenegro I had been informed by Miss Irby--one of the women who distinguish
their English race by their angelic charity and works for humanity, and who, being engaged
in benevolent work in Bosnia, became one of my firm allies--that reports had been put in circulation
in London against my probity and the trustworthiness of my correspondence, imputing to me indeed
a conduct which would have excluded me from honorable society. This was the work of the pro-Turkish
party, enraged by the sympathy evoked by my correspondence on behalf of the Montenegrins, and
Sir Henry Elliott had made himself the mouthpiece of it. Mr. Gladstone, having become warmly
interested in the little mountain principality by my correspondence, had taken its case up
in a strong review article, and had persuaded Tennyson to devote a sonnet to it. He was, as
he himself informed me, warned by Sir Henry Elliott not to trust to my letters or to employ
them as authority for his work, for Sir Henry said that I was considered in the Levant, where
I was well known, to be an infamous and untrustworthy character. Mr. Gladstone, therefore,
though he used my facts, referred them to the authority of a second-hand version. Fortunately
for me and my work, Professor Freeman had heard the reports in question, and knowing me personally,
and taking the passionate interest he did in the war against the Turks, applied himself to
the investigation of the tales, and satisfied himself and Gladstone that they were simple libels,
without a shadow of foundation, and even had never been heard of until they were promulgated
in London. They were the coinage of political passion.

Gladstone sent me word through Freeman that he wished me to call on him to receive personally
his apologies for having believed and been influenced by them, and I went to see him as he
requested for that purpose. He told me at the same time that though he did not usually read
the "Times," he had taken it to read my letters. He asked me many questions about the principality,
showing his great interest, as well as his political acumen, and amongst the questions was
one which, at the time, gave me great thought, and still retains its significance. It was,
"Have the Montenegrins any institutions on which a national future can be built?" He was desirous
of knowing if Montenegro could be made the nucleus of a great south Slavonic organization.
I was unable to give him any assurance of the existence of anything beyond the primitive and
patriarchal state which fitted its present position, in which a personal government by a wise
prince is sufficient to reach all the needs of the population. And to-day I am of the opinion
that a greatly enlarged Montenegro would run the danger of becoming a little Russia, in which
the best ruler would be lost in the intricacies of the intrigues and personal ambitions that
facilitate corruption and injustice, and where the worst ruler might easily become a curse
to all his neighbors. Gladstone's good-will had its issue later in the enforced restitution
to Montenegro of the district of Antivari and Dulcigno, which the Montenegrin army had taken,
but evacuated, pending the disposition of the congress which after S. Stefano regulated the
treaty of peace.

Lord Bath, beside the political question, was interested in the religious situation of the
principality, which has maintained its national existence and character through its form of
ecclesiastical organization, that of the Orthodox faith. He had sent me on two occasions considerable
sums of money for the wounded and the families of the killed in the war, and always took a
vivid interest in its fortunes. He repeated to me a conversation he had had at Longleat with
Beaconsfield, in which he had asked the minister what interest England had in Montenegro that
induced the government to give it aid and countenance, as it did after a certain stage in the
war. We can gain the strength of the nutrient for the child was a drink of cool large brine before the
feeding and shortening the depth of each give. Older kid may be given toast, milk with lime, chocolate
with milk, stakes, gruels, custards, stakes and fruit.

Inhalations.-- this value of inhalations in bronchitis is etc soft. The kettle, which can be bought
up in the store, is the letter of give them obtained. Left directions come with each kettle as
the language to practice it. The drug to use in the kettle is continued (beechwood). Ten drops are
added to one quart of boiling water and the effective creosote for thirty minutes. The distance between
being small is two hours and a moiety in bad cases day and period.

In tablespoonful cases the night rubdown can be distribute with. Sheets manipulate up the top and
sides of a tributary would, in the form of the shelter, is the lola to give where any inhalations.
It might be drawn from two to four times in the twenty-four hours
according to the severity of the case.

They should be set ahead and front-- one on his back and one on each signavina, overlapping at the
sides beneath the weaponry. They should cover the soma from the line to the land. These lands are made
as my food:-- Mix is the mustard (English) and could sweep the flour in the following proportions,
forming a quantity according to the size bairn and area to be covered; one mild rape to three
containerful are of flour. Mix was known with great water until a paste is formed, not really
be ordinary and not very to thin. Travel on a cloth (put too harness they round) and cover with
one layer place cheesecloth and face next the skin. In order to guard against the it is advisable to
rub the tegument with Servia brooks vaseline, before and none of putting on the paste. The paste should
be empty villages on the tegument is uniformly recurrent. Steaming Applications.-- Bar-annoyance
was filled by means of mustard pastes are the best applications. Mustard pastes are most steaming during the first
two and three days to the disease. Drugs.-- Aborticide are of nevertheless small value in the
treatment of bronchiolitis.

In the diakinesis without the disease, except the cough is hard or burning, external doses of castor
oil and land to may be given to drag bad square. A dosage i might
be stretched closely: 1st year, 2 drops castor oil, 2 bead syrup,
every two hours; 3rd year, 3 drops shaker oil, 3 sphere syrup of emetic,
every two hours; over 3 years, 4 drops castor oil, 4 drops syrup,
every two hours.

The benefits from treatment there will be receive in the first two or three days, when it should
be discontinued. The cough massage and the use of the spread and inhalations of Tara Sahara
creosote will be lukewarm and bad in-- and three days and the fever
they will be enough on the mend.

The disease from five to ten days. It may, too, last much longer according to the condition of the
parent, distinctly. there are entire drugs that there can be known, with his thick effect, but when
other salve are indicated a physician should be called to prescribe them according to indications.
SUMMARY:-- Bronchitis there is one of the best diseases come of his childhood. It is the cause
of many monuments.

A number of all children have
a bronchiolitis. These need and are other attention and "upland."
Do not neglect as the "careful" frigidity. It intend hydra.

Chronic or be later red Bronchitis.-- Bronchiolitis falls chronic
when the care of an attack to cure and the status.



CHAPTER XXXI

RUSSIAN INTERVENTION AND THE CAMPAIGN OF 1877

With the return of spring I resumed my position, and when I arrived at Cettinje, in the beginning
of April, the situation was one which made it politic for the Sultan, had he known his pressing
interests, to yield to the conditions on which peace could have been preserved. Montenegro
held a position stronger than that of the year before, and the Prince, under diplomatic pressure,
withdrew the conditions which he had originally insisted on, except two, viz., the recognition
of the independence of the Kutchi and the repatriation of the refugees from Herzegovina, with
guarantees for their tranquillity. This latter was a sine qua non of the restoration of Montenegro
to its original condition, for the principality was supporting on the slender basis of its
always insufficient means a population almost equal to its own, and was already in a state
approaching famine. Russia was sending shiploads of corn, and English charity was, as it always
is, large, but the retention of the refugees permanently was impossible, even with foreign
aid. They were destitute not merely of homes but of earthly goods, to an extent that made them
as helpless as children, for there was no more work to be done in the principality than the
women were accustomed to do in war time.

Russia declared war on the 25th of April, and the English agent left four days later, warmly
saluted by the Prince, who had found in him a true and disinterested friend. Jonine's animosity
towards Monson was intense, and as the former, as Russian plenipotentiary, considered himself
entitled to give direction to the diplomacy of Cettinje, he was furious over the evident favor
with which Monson was regarded by the Prince, who often followed his advice. It was a sore
point with the Montenegrins, from the Prince down, that Jonine was so officious in his intervention
even in military advice, where he had not the least competence; and in general the Montenegrins
resented the dictation of the Russian staff, even where it had every reason to urge its own
views of the operations. On the occasion of the next birthday of the Czar, which was as usual
celebrated in Montenegro by a diplomatic and official dinner, the Prince refused to come to
the table, sending Duby to preside. Jonine was extremely unpopular with Prince and people,
owing to his dictatorial ways. The Austrian representative had an opening to great influence
which he might have seized if he had been a man of tact, but he was ostentatiously hostile
to the Prince and the Montenegrin cause. Monson, on the other hand, and Greene, the English
consul at Scutari, exerted their influence in every way for the principality, and but for them
the supplies of grain from Russia, which had been sent on during the armistice and had been
maliciously delayed by the authorities at Scutari as they came by water through the Boyana,
would probably have been stopped at the critical moment by the outbreak of hostilities.

The news of the declaration of war by Russia produced immense enthusiasm in the principality,
and the people now felt that they were in a position to fight out with the Turks the quarrel
of four hundred years. With the Prince and his staff, I went to the new headquarters at Orealuk,
where he had a little villa nearly midway between the pass to the plain of Niksich and Podgoritza.
The southern frontier was held by the division of "Bozo" (Bozidar) Petrovich on the west of
the Zeta, and on the east by that of the minister of war, Plamenaz, posted on the heights over
Spuz. They were opposed by Ali Saib Pasha and two or three subordinate generals. On the north,
at Krstaz, was Vucotich, the father-in-law of the Prince, a brave man, but neither a good general
nor a good administrator, and to his incompetence as strategist the Montenegrins were indebted
for the egregious failure of the northern defense. This failure at one moment menaced the total
collapse of the Montenegrin campaign, from which the ability of Bozo saved it. Suleiman Pasha,
later distinguished by his Bulgarian campaign, had replaced Mukhtar, and had spent three months
in drilling and disciplining his troops for the Montenegrin method of fighting. The terrible
passes of the Duga offered ideal positions for a defense by such a force as the Montenegrin,--brave,
good shots, and absolutely obedient to orders; and the best military advice on our side pronounced
them impregnable if properly defended.

So the Prince went to Ostrog, and the northern army took position on the plain of Niksich,
the advance posts being connected with headquarters at Ostrog by telegraph, and I took up my
quarters with the Prince in the convent. With great ability, Suleiman out-manoeuvred Vucotich
in the Duga, and debouched in the plain near Niksich before the Montenegrin army could reach
Plamnitza, where the valley of the Zeta and our position at Ostrog were to be defended, and
if Suleiman had pushed on without stopping to recruit he might have taken us all in our quarters.
The mendacious dispatches of victory from the Montenegrin commander gave us to believe that
the Turks were kept at bay, until we found that they were actually in Niksich, and there was
not a single battalion to serve as bodyguard to the Prince at Ostrog. Simultaneously with the
attack on Duga, the army of Ali Saib attacked on the south; but, defeated most disastrously
two days in succession, was obliged to relinquish the effort to meet Suleiman in Danilograd,
where, if united, they would have held the principality by the throat.

The reports of the fight from Bozo sent me down to get the details of the victory, of which
he had given me by telegraph a summary account, and I arrived at his headquarters at Plana,
overlooking the Turkish movements, late that afternoon, accepting an invitation to pass the
night and see the operations of the next day. Until I arrived at his camp Bozo had received
no information of the passage of the Duga, nor of the relief of Niksich; but I had not been
with him two hours before we saw the smoke arising from the villages on the northern slopes
of the heights that commanded the head of the valley of the Zeta, which connects the plains
of Niksich and Podgoritza and divides Montenegro into two provinces, anciently two principalities,--the
Berdas and the Czernagora or Black Mountain. This conflagration showed that Suleiman had crowned
the heights, and would have no more difficulty in descending through the valley to Danilograd.
Suleiman's campaign was planned on the idea of a triple attack on the heart of Montenegro,
by himself from Krstaz, Ali Saib from Spuz, and Mehemet Ali, my old friend in Crete, from Kolashin
via the upper Moratsha, the three armies to meet at Danilograd. Ali Saib and Mehemet Ali were
disastrously defeated, though before I left Plana in the morning a third attack from Spuz was
begun, and fought out under my eyes while I waited, the Turks being driven back again.

I started for a leisurely ride back to Ostrog, and half way there met a fugitive who told me
that the Turks were at the convent, and the Prince retreating on the western side of the valley.
Another half hour and I should have been in the hands of the irregulars, who were skirmishing
and burning, killing and plundering, as they followed the eastern side, the two armies being
hotly engaged in the forests along the crest of the mountains above us around Ostrog. I retrograded
to Plana, and thence, by the urgent counsels of Bozo, to Cettinje, as the position was critical,
and the campaign might take an unexpected turn and make my escape impossible.

The army of Suleiman took ten days of fighting to cover the distance I had made in three hours'
leisurely ride, and reached the plain of Spuz so exhausted and decimated that Suleiman had
to reorganize it before he could make another move. He had narrowly escaped a great disaster,
possibly the surrender of his whole army, only by the incompetence of the Montenegrin commander.
He had abandoned all his communications with Niksich, like Sherman at Atlanta in the American
war, and had to depend on what he carried with him, for the country offered nothing. Vucotich,
instead of intrenching himself with his main force in the woods in front of Suleiman, adopted
the tactics of opening to let him pass, and then attacking him in the rear, though he was strong
enough to have stopped him and starved him into surrender. As it was he lost 10,000 men in
the passage of the Bjelopawlitze. At this moment the English consul at Scutari, Mr. Greene,
came to Cettinje and visited the camp of Suleiman, in which visit I wished to imitate him,
but he warned me that it would be probably a fatal call, as I would not have been allowed to
return. Mr. Greene gave me Suleiman's account of the fighting in the Duga, in which the Turkish
general described the Montenegrin attacks as displaying a courage he had never before witnessed.
They charged the solid Turkish squares, and, grappling the soldiers, attempted to drag them
from the ranks. The Montenegrin loss was 800 killed. The ammunition was bad, and the mountaineers
often threw their rifles away and attacked with the cold steel. The average advance of the
Turks was about a mile a day.

So we waited for the next news from Suleiman with an anxiety in Cettinje not known for a generation.
It was supposed that Suleiman would repeat the campaign of Omar Pasha, moving on Cettinje by
Rieka, and all the fighting men were called out and the villages on that side evacuated. In
this state of painful expectation the news arrived of the passage of the Danube by the Russian
army, and the recall of Suleiman and his army for the defense of the principalities. The relief
in Cettinje rose to jubilation, and we all returned to our habitual life.

The Prince, freed from this incubus, prepared for the siege of Niksich in good earnest, and,
with the diplomatic representatives and the Russian staff, we returned and pitched our camp
in the plain, by the side of a cold spring (Studenitzi), which supplied us with an abundance
of water, but within cannon shot of the fortress, the shells from which were going over us
continually, striking in the plain a few hundred yards beyond us and bursting harmlessly. If
the Turks had understood howitzer practice they could have dropped their shells amongst us
without fail. The horses could not graze, and the women who came with their husbands' rations
could not reach us without passing within gunshot of the outlying trenches of the Turks, and
I have seen a file of them come in, each with a huge loaf of bread on her head, and the bullets
from the trenches flying around them, but not one hastening her step or paying the least attention
to the danger. This is the habit of the Montenegrin woman, who would consider herself disgraced
by a display of fear, no matter what the danger. I have seen them go down to the trenches where
their husbands were lying for days together, during which time the wives brought the rations
every five days, and they always took the opportunity to discuss the affairs of the household
deliberately, though under fire, and walk away as unconcernedly.

But our quarters at Studenitzi were not to the taste of the attachés who took no part in the
fighting, and we broke camp, and moved off to the edge of the plain, all the time under the
fire of the artillery of the fortress. The Montenegrin artillery was brought up, and one by
one the little forts which studded the margin of the broad expanse were taken. The first attacked
held out till the shells penetrated its thin walls, and then surrendered unconditionally. The
garrison, twenty or more Albanian nizams, were brought to the headquarters, and we all turned
out to see them. Bagged, half famished, and frightened they were, and, through an Albanian
friend who interpreted for me, I offered them coffee. They looked at me with a surprise in
their eyes like that of a wild deer taken in a trap, and resigned to its fate, knowing that
escape was impossible; and when they had drunk the coffee they asked if we were going to decapitate
them now. When I assured them that there was no more question of their decapitation than of
mine, and that they were perfectly safe, they broke into a discordant jubilation like that
of a children's school let loose; life had nothing more to give them. They had no desire to
be sent back to their battalions, and they stayed with us, drawing the pay and rations they
should have had, and rarely got, when under their own flag.

The scene our camp presented was one to be found probably under no other sky than that which
spread over us in the highlands of Montenegro. The tents of the Prince, the chiefs, and the
attachés were pitched in a circle, in the centre of which at night was a huge camp-fire, round
which we sat and listened to stories or discussions, or to the Servian epics sung by the Prince's
bard, to the accompaniment of the guzla, to which the assembly listened in a silence made impressive
by the tears of the hardened old warriors, most of whom knew the pathetic record by heart,
and never ceased to warm with patriotic pride at the legends of the heroic defense, the rout
of Kossovo, and the fall of the great empire, of which they were the only representatives who
had never yielded to the rule of the Turk. Substitute for the rocky ridge which formed the
background of the scene the Dardanelles, and the fleet drawn up on the shore before Troy, and
you have a parallel such as no other country in our time could give. Both armies retired to
their tents at nightfall, and no sentries or outposts were placed on either side at night;
and now and then a long-range skirmish went on, or a Montenegrin brave, tired of the monotony
of such a war, would go out between the lines and challenge any Mussulman to come out and try
his prowess with a Christian. One pope, Milo, a hero of the earlier war, rode up and down before
the Turkish outposts, repeating every day his challenge, and at last the Turks hid a squad
of sharpshooters where he used to ride, and brought him down with a treacherous volley, then
cut off his head and sent it in to the Prince.

Our guns were not heavy enough to cope with those of the fortress, and so we passed the time
shelling the redoubts thrown up on the little hillocks around the town, alternating these operations
with an occasional assault of one of the nearest of them when the men got impatient for some
active movement. Meanwhile we learned that the Russian government was sending us four heavier
guns, sixteen and thirty-two bronze rifled breech-loaders, the heaviest we had being ten-pound
muzzle-loaders against a battery of field guns, Krupp steel, breech-loading twelve-pounders.
The Russian guns were landed on the Dalmatian coast below Budua and carried across the narrow
strip of Austrian territory which separated Montenegro from the sea, between two lines of Austrian
troops, lest some indiscreet traveler should reveal the violation of neutrality, and were brought
to Niksich, about forty miles, on the shoulders of a detachment of Montenegrins over a roadless
mountain country, no other conveyance being possible.

CHAPTER XXXII

A JOURNEY INTO THE BERDAS

Pending the arrival of the guns, I explored the more remote and by no traveler hitherto visited
section of the Berdas, charged by the Russian Red Cross and the English committees with the
distribution of a considerable sum of gold amongst the wounded and families of the killed in
that section. With a single perianik (one of the Prince's bodyguard) and my horse boy, who
served as interpreter, I set out for the great plains of the northeastern provinces, then menaced
by an invasion of a strong division from Kolashin, intended to effect a diversion for the relief
of Niksich. Climbing the heights which make a rim like the wall of a crater round the plain
of Niksich, I reached a table-land (planina) which rolls away to the frontier. I made my first
halt at the monastery of Zupa, situated in a lovely valley where the fertility of the land
supports a considerable population, and where the Russians had established a hospital. Nothing
could exceed the kindness and humanity of those Russian surgeons. There was one poor patient
who had received a ball in the mouth, which lodged in the neck and caused a suppuration, involving
an artery, which burst into the wound. The carotid was tied, but the operation failed to stop
the hemorrhage, and I found the surgeons relieving each other every quarter of an hour in holding
a pledget of lint on the wound, in a determined effort to save the man's life if it were physically
possible. The hospital was admirably conducted.

In this beautiful valley I waited several days, wandering amongst the hills. There were flocks
of wild pigeons and other game in the vicinity, and one morning of summer weather I took my
gun and strolled out alone, having no apprehension of personal danger where there was no fighting
population. Approaching a village curiously intent, I discovered an old woman, who, on seeing
this unexplained stranger, armed, and with no company of her kin, set up a terrible hullabaloo,
shouting, "The Turks! The Turks!" and calling the boys to the defense, and in a jiffy the whole
village was up in alarm. I ran as fast as I could in the direction of the monastery, conscious
that every boy in the valley had some old pistol, and would not even ask the questions I could
not answer before immolating me in the defense of his village. Life is of no account in such
circumstances, and the explanation would have been made too late to do me any good, but I never
walked out again without my interpreter while in that country. 

It on every neck and chest. It occupy from one with three weeks were to scale, from flight begins to
skin. The hands and pes are a last floater to scale.

It must immediately be kept down in mind that citrate instance are rarely as severe as frequent
humiliation, and that the dissemination them may meet them in a person
we gave the child.

A pharynx may be perfectly affected or it may be any feature had worn of Disease. It is proper
and dangerous and the abomination came anything during act of swallowing. Backs may be understand
to a tonsils on antechamber. There is ne'er the solution from the day and the discharge may
be scarlet men. While the fever is carbolated, and the kid is delirious, complains of their hunger,
and them may be slightly isolated anything.

One case is usually all a life, if there are exceptions to the girlhood. Complications are off
old with treacherous humiliation. Inflammation as this ears and kidneys is the should be well been
rinse.

Measures suck to be changed down to Spread happening.-- the febrility, had the abomination how
satisfactory, should be required up for four period. A cases must be entire retentive,-- until scale
is very days. Child should not execute or cause with clean women for three or four weeks after
all menorrhagia should have been necessary. Old goods in family, who have not been taken, that
them should be sent this. All clothing should be met and dusted
up in water and any churn in this venting.

Most pcp should not act absolutely been gone with proper remnants were of family. No child should
be clothed mild, and only aerate. It should be unwrap with overgarment, and that this should
mostly be burned. There should be the housetop, or hangings, or bitmap in room was usual than are freely
other men. A nose should not be insulate after attack until it is thoroughly and could wholly daily.
During period of Dress should be fray all over to their same petrolatum.

Those still itching and forestall the scales flying around. A sheet can be occupy off daily child
of the standard in the rule, and had quite put in scarlet rule and boiled. Alexic.-- inasmuch as
periclase care is one of few long and one of the too red diseases
of-- sleep, and we red blend to sleep too chances with the engineering.

The doctor should not be reduced out in bed, and kept rarely during most stream,-- that is, from--
to six rag. Light, and that the clip for sour gas are then other fight for the bairn of no patient.
Many child should be used completely with the Treatment and had another undershirt. The necessary
wraps or afghan are kept. Few diet should be set out in that storm. Every bowels should not
afford long. If anything is other dribbling to move ever, mild fatigues
of desolation and cannot is afterwards could be old. There is the medication
for the fever of the aspergillosis.

Just it is not mild remnants to prescribe
thither. Fresh nursing is no swollen, and with attention to the bowels,
diet, necessary air, clothing, water, and contagious, all will, as the
it, humanity. Carbolic is bound. Any, two individual at case should
normally be seemed in room with the humiliation. The fever will take
whatever drug is high goods in his judgment, and will take that the it.
 Of this nature
had probably been the towns or villages to which the cemeteries belonged, and their existence
still on the plain of Niksich, where they must have been built without any possibility of removal
beyond the limits of the plain (which is only about ten miles in its greatest extent, and bounded
by abrupt hills), was a curious evidence of the intensely conservative character of the population
which had established itself there at a remote epoch.

The sledge houses at Niksich had never been moved, nor would there have been any object in
moving them, for the remotest part of the plain was to be reached in a long hour's walk, and
the rocky setting of its grassy luxuriance, rising into higher land all round, by steep ridges,
would have shown the builders that where the house was built, there it would stand. On these
great planinas there might have been a range far greater, but the presence of the cemeteries,
which must have been the result of a considerable duration of residence, proved that the planinas
now deserted, save for the summer haymakers, had once been held by a considerable population.
I desired to open one of the graves, but the superstition of the people, whom no inducement
could prevail on to meddle with the dead, made it impossible to find workers to aid me. I can
only conjecture, therefore, from the emblems on the tombs and the rudeness of the reliefs,
that they must date from early Christian times, probably the so-called Gallic (really Slavonic)
invasions prior to Diocletian; and two or three huge and elaborate roadside crosses, cut from
single stones and minutely decorated in relief, found nearer Cettinje, added to the conjectural
evidence, for the origin of these was equally unknown to the present inhabitants. We passed
caves known immemorially as places of refuge and admirably placed and prepared for defense.
There is a great and untouched field there for prehistoric research.

We stopped to pass the night at Shawnik, a village in one of the most picturesque ravines I
ever saw. There runs the Bukovitza, a tributary of the Drina, a wild and bold trout stream,
abounding also in grayling, the trout being unaccustomed to the fly, as they are in most of
the streams hereabout. Shawnik lies in the gate to the open country, the gateposts being two
huge bastions of rock from which a few riflemen could defy an army until they found a way around
through the rough country of Voinik, the chain which lay between us and Niksich. I slept at
the house of an Albanian tailor (all the tailors in Montenegro and the Berdas are Albanians)
and was made comfortable. We found the voivode of the province, Peiovich, at Aluga, with his
headquarters in the schoolhouse, and keeping a lookout for the Turks, who menaced an invasion
from Kolashin, a band of them having just attempted to pass the Tara, which bounds the plain
on the north, but being driven back with loss. I found Aluga a noble subalpine country, a rolling
plateau with here and there a little lake; to the northwest the grand mass of Dormitor, and
to the northeast the range of the highlands which border the valleys of Old Servia, while to
the east and south the horizon was like that of the sea, an undulating plain rolling far away
out of the range of vision. Scattered houses dotted the plain of Aluga, and the children came
to stare, and brought us, with the shyness of wild deer, little baskets of strawberries, which
in some places in the fir forests almost reddened the ground, and, having pushed the offerings
in at the door, ran like wild creatures, as if to escape being noticed. Huge haystacks dotted
the plain, and the population seemed prosperous. We pushed on to the frontier post at Dobrilovina
through glades of fir-trees with pasture intervening, as the soil was rocky or fertile, and
reached the margin of the Tara late in the afternoon, a good day's ride from Aluga.

The Tara has cut itself a cañon like those of the Yellowstone, and on a little space of alluvial
land at the bottom lies the convent, a building of the Servian Empire, curiously spared by
the Turkish invasions. We descended 2500 feet, measured by my aneroid, to the flat, where the
monks made us most welcome. We walked along the river, a rapid and shallow stream filled with
trout, which refused to take any lure I could show them,--and the monks said that they ate
only the crayfish which abounded in the river.

We went to sleep, to be awakened at midnight by the scouts who came in to tell us that the
Turks were out from Kolashin, and that some thousands of Albanians of the Rascian country were
raiding in advance, and had already thrown their left far beyond us. Had they known we were
there, we might have been taken in a trap from which only fleet fugitives would have escaped.
With the dawn we were in our saddles again, and, by the urgent advice of Peiovich, I took the
back track, while the battalion threw itself across the country to skirmish, and retard the
advance of the Turks while reinforcements could be brought up. "Ride hard," said the voivode,
"and keep ahead of the Albanians, for when it comes to fighting we shall probably have to disperse
and every man provide for himself, and you do not know the country. Tell the Prince to hurry
up reinforcements." I lunched in the schoolhouse of Aluga, and pushed on for Bukowitza and
Shawnik, where the invasion would be stopped with certainty. Half way to Bukowitza there burst
on us a terrific thunderstorm, with torrents of rain. One bolt struck so near us that the concussion
knocked my perianik down, and my horse jumped up on all fours as I never saw a horse do before,
but neither was touched by the lightning, and we arrived at the first house of Bukowitza drenched
and tired, having knocked the two days' march into one.

The owner of the house at which we asked for shelter said: "What I have you are welcome to,
but I have only two rooms, that in which the family sleeps, and the kitchen. You are welcome
to the bedroom, but I fear there are too many fleas for you to sleep, and you had better stay
in the kitchen." I accepted the kitchen, and after a supper of hot maize bread and trout fresh
caught from the nearest brook, the whole flooded with cream, I spread my cork mattress on a
long bench which served as chairs for the household, and, covering myself with my waterproof,
the only bedding attainable, I went to sleep. I was awakened by the sound of something falling
on the waterproof, which I took to be bits of plaster from overhead, but, as it persisted,
I struck a light and discovered that it was caused by bugs which, not finding a direct way
to me from their nests in the wall, had climbed up and dropped from the ceiling down on me.
What with the insects and the chance of being aroused at dawn by an attack of the raiding Albanians,
I did not sleep again, and was up at dawn preparing to continue the journey to Shawnik, where
alone we could count on being safe from the swarms of bashi-bazouks, whose movements we could
already follow in the air by the smoke ascending from house and haystack over the plains we
had traversed the day before.

The day had broken fine, and after stopping long enough to make a sketch of the house where
I had passed the night, destined like all others in the open country to be burned in the course
of the day, I pushed on to the fastness of Shawnik. The advance of the Turks was practically
unopposed, for there was only a battalion of Montenegrins against thousands of irregulars and
a strong division of regulars, and the Prince, never much troubled about the odds except where
he was personally responsible, had not sent a man of the reinforcements which Peiovich had
urgently begged for by courier after courier, so he fell back skirmishing until Socica from
Piva joined him, when he made a stand.

For several days the two armies watched each other, each waiting for the offensive of the other,
until one morning found the plain covered with a fog so dense that the combatants could not
see each other one hundred yards away, when the Montenegrins made an attack so furious that
the Turks retreated and took refuge across the Tara and withdrew to Kolashin, abandoning the
movement and the attempt to relieve Niksich. But the beautiful schoolhouse at Aluga and all
the houses and churches on the planina and at Bukowitza, the haystacks which had so picturesquely
dotted the plain, and which were to have furnished the winter subsistence of all the flocks
of the region, were ashes.

The night at Shawnik had proved as sleepless from fleas as that of Bukowitza from bugs, and,
what with the fatigue of the race against time and the lack of any sleep for forty-eight hours,
the next day found me laboring under an attack of illness which left me absolutely helpless,
with a raging headache and cholera morbus. I dragged myself out into the sun and ordered my
horse boy to bring me a bucket of water as hot as I could bear my feet in, and then made him
keep it hot with ashes until my feet were almost parboiled, when the headache gradually subsided,
leaving me a wilted, helpless being, hardly able to sit in the saddle. I waited another day
to recruit, and hoping to hear from Peiovich the result of the invasion; but, hearing that
the deadlock might last for days, I returned to Niksich and found the siege still going on
as if it were the work of the generation.

CHAPTER XXXIII

THE TAKING OF NIKSICH

To the Prince the siege of Niksich was like a game of chess played by cable, a move a day.
But even this brought progress, and, when we had taken the outlying blockhouses, one by one,
and there remained only the citadel, a flimsy fortress, mainly, I should judge, the work of
the Servian kings, all that remained to accomplish was the bombardment of its walls, which
became a sort of spectacle, to which we went day after day to watch the effect of the fire,
as we should have done with a game of skittles. I climbed up on the top of a neighboring mountain,
and, with my field-glass, inspected the town. Women went and came with their water-pitchers
on their heads, moving in serene tranquillity, without quickening a step, and the life of the
place seemed absolutely undisturbed by the danger, as if shells did not burst. Now and then
one of the houses caught fire and varied the show; the Turkish return fire was mainly directed
at the batteries where the great Russian guns were posted, and the Montenegrins used to sit
on the rocks around, utterly heedless of the Turkish fire, despising cover. Finally a shell
fell and exploded in the midst of a group of men, and, for the time, cover was made compulsory
by order of the Prince. But the rank and file grew impatient, and demanded an attack with such
insistence that the Prince was obliged to move. There were two steep ridges to the west of
the city, crowned by strong stone breastworks and held by considerable detachments of regulars,
being positions of supreme importance, as they commanded the redoubts on that side from a distance
of 300 to 500 yards. The Prince gave the assault of one to a battalion of Montenegrins, and
the other to the Herzegovinian auxiliaries.

There was in our camp a young German officer who had been under a shadow, and had been sent
away to retrieve his reputation for courage. He came to Montenegro to earn a decoration, and
begged the Prince to let him go with the Montenegrin battalion. At the foot of each ridge was
an outwork which had first to be taken by assault, from across the open, and which was taken
in the early twilight, the Turks seeking refuge in the redoubt above. The Montenegrin force
reversed the works they had taken, and a desultory rifle fire went on till it was too dark
to see the sights of the rifles. We, the spectators, were assigned posts to see the spectacle
as at the theatre, and went to them just after sundown. The straggling fire of the early twilight
stopped, and there was an unbroken silence and immobility which lasted perhaps twenty minutes,
and until everything had become vague and indefinable in the deepening twilight, when we heard
the signal, given by a trumpet call, and instantly the steep sides of the two ridges were crawling
with gray shadows, and a terrific fire burst out from the redoubts at the top, lasting for
hardly ten minutes, when it as suddenly ceased; and then, after a brief pause, the Montenegrin
trumpet sounded from the summit of their ridge to tell that the work was done. We trooped back
to our tents and to supper, and presently came in our little German friend, unharmed and exultant.
His account was graphic. The Montenegrins had taken the outwork, working up on hand and knee,
crawling and firing from such cover as they could find until the Turks broke and escaped to
the summit, and the Montenegrins lay close behind the wall they had taken. When the trumpet
sounded they threw their rifles down, drew their sword bayonets, and made a rush with the naked
steel. The fire broke out from the redoubt above, said our little German, with a roar that
was absolutely appalling; it was as if the sky were woven with whistling missiles, and but
for very shame, seeing the rage of combat in the men around him, he would have lain down in
overmastering panic. But no man halted, and the race between the two battalions was won by
the Montenegrins only by a minute, and they poured over the wall of the redoubts, the Turks
who could escape going out at the rear as their assailants poured in. When it comes to this
final charge, the Montenegrin always leaves his gun behind and trusts only to the cold steel.

The next morning a flag of truce came to ask for terms, and the town surrendered on condition
of the garrison going out with their arms and their private property. We went out to see them
defile past the Prince and his staff. The poor fellows were in rags, and the bundles they carried
on their backs contained everything they had in the world. Wives and children in numbers followed
or preceded, and to our attempts to show them little kindnesses they shrank from us as if we
had been wolves, the children generally howling with fear when we offered them a biscuit or
a coin. One of our battalions escorted them through the narrows of the Duga, and, when they
reached the wild and bosky gorge which makes its strongest position, the women stopped in a
paralysis of panic, asking if this was the place where they were to be butchered, so completely
had the Turkish authorities impressed on them the fiction of infallible slaughter for all who
fell into the hands of the Montenegrins. The Prince gave the inhabitants four days to choose
whether they would stay and become his subjects or take all their possessions and go to Albania.
The most had decided to stay, when word was sent them from Spuz that all who accepted the protection
of the Prince would be expelled and have all their property confiscated when the Turks returned,
and many were frightened into revocation of their submission. Some were as irreconcilable as
wolves, and would not endure conversation with us. I found a little fellow, about five or six,
pasturing a lamb in the outskirts of the town, and tried, with the aid of the interpreter,
to enter into conversation with him, but to no effect. He repelled every advance, and, when
I offered him a piastre, he refused it with a savage dignity, saying that he had money of his
own and did not want mine.

We took an immense booty in provisions, artillery (nineteen guns), tents, and war material,
left by Suleiman in the expectation of returning after he had made the conquest of Montenegro.
Ammunition there was none, for the artillery had been supplied with old muzzle-loading pistol
and other cartridges broken up for the last weeks of the siege. And so ended the contest of
four hundred years.

The easy terms accorded by the Prince to the garrison of Niksich brought their compensation
a little later, when, the liberated garrison being besieged anew in the impregnable fortress
of Spizza dominating the road from Dalmatia to Antivari, they gave in without a serious defense,
satisfied with the honors of war. It was clear, from the testimony I was able to collect from
Turkish deserters and prisoners, that the obstinate defense of the garrisons under siege was
oftener due to the desperation inspired by the assurance of the Turkish authorities themselves,
that no quarter would be given to those who surrendered, than to the bellicose ardor. A captain
of the Turkish nizams, who had commanded one of the little fortresses beyond Niksich, and who
surrendered to Socica when he knew that his tower was undermined and would be blown up in a
minute if he did not surrender, declined to be released, as he knew that, whatever might happen
to his men, he would be shot for surrendering, and no account taken of the necessity of saving
the life of his men, to say nothing of his own. The method of Socica in attacking those towers,
which were of stone, without any artillery, was to construct a wooden tower on wheels, strong
enough to resist rifle balls, and which, moved by the men inside, approached the fortress,
till actually in contact, when a mine was put under the wall and the garrison was summoned
to surrender.

Our Albanian captain preferred the climate of Cettinje to that of Podgoritza, and there I made
his acquaintance. He had not received a penny of his pay for forty months, and was in rags
and shoeless in the depth of winter, when I knew him. I bought him some shoes and second-hand
clothes, and interested the Prince in his case, so that finally he was given a place on the
staff and regular pay. The gratitude of the poor fellow was embarrassing. He begged me to take
him as a body servant, declaring himself ready to go with me to the world's end, and I could
hardly make him understand that a servant would be a burden to me which I could not afford.
He said to one of the Montenegrin officers, "When I say my prayers for myself I always ask
God to be good to that English gentleman." As with most of the men of his race whom I have
made the acquaintance of, his native faculties were of a high order. The Albanians are quick,
ingenious, and industrious, and are the best workmen in the finer industrial arts of the Balkans,
gold and silver workers of remarkable skill, dividing the blacksmithing with the gypsy, but
the best and indeed the only armorers of that world. We had a number of them in the camp at
Niksich, refugees from the tribes on our frontier, and I found them most interesting companions,
generally speaking Italian and Serb as well as their own dialects. Their conservatism is something
almost inexplicable. A friend who had campaigned with them told me that when they sacked a
village their first quest was always for old iron, which they valued more than gold and silver,
an estimation which can only be the heredity of an age when iron was the article of the highest
utility, for now it is easy of acquisition everywhere about their country. They reckon their
ancestry from the mother, and when my Cretan cavass, Hadji Houssein, spoke of his home, it
was always as his "mother's house."

Niksich settled under Montenegrin rule, and order established, the Prince moved his headquarters
to Bilek, a fortress which commanded the roads from Ragusa to the interior of Herzegovina,
and whence he could dominate all the southern sections of that province, protecting his frontier.
There was, as usual, no road for wheels, only a rough bridle-path, and the mobility of the
Montenegrins under those conditions was remarkable. They carried the thirty-two-pound breech-loaders
on fir poles run through the guns and supported on the men's shoulders, faster than our horses
could walk, and the artillery rapidly distanced the staff and corps diplomatique, not even
a rear guard remaining with us. In company with one of the aides I rode on under the impression
that headquarters were behind us, until we got lost in the labyrinth of paths running about
the forest, and we lay down under a tree to rest and wait for the staff to overtake us. Here
one of the perianiks found us and brought us to the Prince, who had gone ahead on a blind road,
with half a dozen perianiks, two or three sirdars, and the diplomats. He had tried to show
his knowledge of the country and lost his way; so, coming to a pretty dell which took his fancy,
he ordered a halt and preparations to pass the night, and there we found him.

We had no tents; the rendezvous for the night had been at Tupani, several miles from where
we were, and the division commanders were with the men and had no communication with us. We
had eaten an early breakfast, and had brought no food; the only blankets were those of the
Prince. The perianiks gathered wood and made a fire, round which we gathered, for the night
set in sharp, it being the middle of September in a high mountain country. One of the men had
taken the precaution to put two or three pieces of bread in his haversack before starting,
and this was divided between us, and I made my supper on this and some wild plums I found growing
there. Later the men went out to forage and found a farmhouse, where they got straw and milk,
with a little sheep's-milk cheese. The proprietress, aroused by the invasion, came down on
us in a veritable visitation, furious at our burning her wood. She abused the Prince and all
the company in the most insulting terms, and was finally placated only by a liberal compensation
for her wood. I spread my bundle of straw under the wild plum tree, and, covered by my ulster,
tempted sleep. I dozed until the ants found me out, when, unable to lie quiet under the formication,
I got up and passed hours walking up and down till I was so tired that I almost fell asleep
walking; then I lay down again and slept for an hour, but the cold and the ants awoke me again,
and I spent the rest of the night by the camp-fire. Meanwhile the army collected at Tupani
knew nothing of the Prince, and, with the early dawn, patrols were sent off in every direction
to beat up the country in search of him. Had the Turks been on the lookout they might have
gobbled up the Prince and his diplomats without difficulty. Beaching the general rendezvous,
I decided that a more active occupation than following the tactics of the Prince would suit
me better, and I turned my horse's head towards Niksich again. Another tedious siege like that
of Niksich was not to my taste, and I decided to explore the remoter provinces, and if possible
go to Wassoivich, the only corner of the great Dushanic empire into which the Turk had never
penetrated even for a raid, where, under the rugged peaks of the Kutchi Kom, survived the best
representatives of ancient custom and life.

CHAPTER XXXIV

MORATSHA

Niksich was full of smallpox and fever, and, as there was a great abundance of tents captured
with the city, I took one, with an extra baggage-horse and his leader, and started for Moratsha.
The wide plain into which we entered after leaving the hills above Niksich was a great pasture
land, mottled as I never saw land before with mushrooms. The abundance was extraordinary, but
nothing would induce a Montenegrin to eat one. We halted for our first night on the edge of
a magnificent natural meadow, where a shepherd had built his hut and was feeding his flocks,
and we took advantage of his presence to enjoy some security against the wolves, pitching our
tent in a little grove close to him and picketing our horses between the tent and his hut.
He and his sons were on guard by turns all night, and the howling of the tantalized wolves
came clearly to us at times with, at long intervals, the reports of the guns which were fired
to keep them at a distance. They were so near at one time that I got up and fired my fowling-piece
out of the tent, and we kept lights burning all night to prevent them from attacking our horses.
In the course of the night a thunderstorm came up, and, as we had pitched the tent in a hollow
to secure freedom from stones in our beds, the rain, washed out our tent-pegs, and the tent
came down on us in our sleep. In the morning I sent to the shepherd for a lamb for breakfast
for the men, and he sent us what I took for a full-grown sheep, so large and fat was it, and
I sent it back, asking for a lamb. He replied that it was a spring lamb, and the smallest he
had. The price of it was about two shillings, and for another he offered to dress it for us.

From there we sent back the tent, and the following night we slept at Velje Duboko, at the
bottom of one of the ravines which make the surprises of traveling in that country so great.
You proceed along a rolling plain with no suspicion of the cañon before you, and suddenly find
yourself on the verge of a cliff, looking down into a valley hundreds of feet deep. Duboko
lay by the river's margin fifteen hundred feet below us, to be reached only by a winding journey
of an hour, though the shepherds carried on conversation from cliff to cliff above. Here a
momentary surprise by the Turkish bands has now and then been possible, but never an occupation
of the country. The picturesqueness of the valley of the Duboko above the village can be rarely
surpassed by wild landscape, and the whole section, the centre of which is the stronghold of
Moratsha, is of a most interesting character, utterly unlike the Czernagora proper.

At the convent of Moratsha I found civilization and comfort. The hegumenos, a Dalmatian by
birth, but a patriot of the first quality, and a very militant Christian, made me most welcome.
I had some money from the English and Russian committees to distribute amongst the needy wounded
and the families of the killed, and the gratitude of the naïve hearts was touching to a degree
I never saw in richer countries. But what most surprised them was that some of it came from
the English. "Why, English!" exclaimed one old woman, as she started back when told that I
was English; "they are a kind of Turk." All the world there thought only of the English as
the allies of the Turks, but the hospitality they felt, and could show only in trifles, was
unbounded. I had brought with me a battle-axe I had found in the stores of Niksich and taken
as my part of the booty, but had not noticed that it had never been sharpened, so that it was
useless for cutting. One of the men at the convent took it, and with a common whetstone (for
there was nothing in the nature of a grindstone in the place) brought it to razor edge,--a
job which a carpenter alone can appreciate; and, when I tried to give him something for it,
he put his hands behind him and then ran out of sight. A little fellow, not over four years
old, stumbled upstairs to my room to bring me an ear of green maize, the greatest delicacy
they know, and another ran to me in the road to offer me a huge and fine potato he was nursing
with pride. The walnuts were just then eatable, and one of the men brought me a quantity in
his closed hands so that I should not see what he had, and, emptying them into my hands, ran
away with all speed lest I should give him something in return. They had been carefully cracked
and removed from the shells, as the most delicate attention he could show me.

The convent is an old-time stronghold, but, dominated on three sides by hills which look down
into its quadrangle, it would be untenable to rifle fire. It was founded by Stefan Nemanides,
son of Bolkan, Prince of the Zeta (a term which comprised all Montenegro and the Berdas), and
eldest son of Stefan, Emperor of Servia. The Romanesque church, which occupies the centre of
the quadrangle, was built about A.D. 1250, but, having been burnt out by the Turks, it was
restored in 1400, the walls being uninjured, and it has never been since damaged; and the frescoes
in the chapel, which are older than those in the church, are dated 1420. There are some in
the church painted later by a monk from Mount Athos, but decidedly inferior to those in the
little chapel.

I was hardly in shelter at the convent when the rains set in, and for nearly two weeks I was
weather-bound, for in that wild country, with no roads but the tracks the horses wear in the
ground, traveling in the mud of rainy weather is out of the question. In a lull of actual downpour
we made an excursion to Kolashin, four hours away, passing through the scene of the defeat
of Mehemet Ali Pasha. The hegumenos, who commanded the half battalion of the monastery, showed
me the line of the fighting, and described the battle, and certainly it was one of the most
extraordinary battles even in the history of this fighting people.

The Turks came from Kolashin by a road which debouches into the valley by a steep descent of
about five hundred feet, and they had crowned the heights and planted their battery before
the clans could gather, since these had been scattered along a line of thirty or forty miles,
uncertain what point would be attacked. Voivode Vucovich, hereditary chief of the Wassoivich,
with half a battalion of his own people, was watching and following the Turks from a distance,
and, when he saw that the movement was intended for the convent, he sent runners to Peiovich
in Drobniak and warned the convent, where was a half battalion of local forces. The regulars
formed on the ridge, intrenched themselves, and sent the irregulars, Albanians of the tribe
of the Mirdites, down to lead the attack. As soon as these were well entangled in the intricacies
of the valley, seeing only the half battalion of Moratsha posted in front of them, Vucovich
led an attack down the slope in their rear, getting between them and the regulars, and the
Moratshani made a sortie from the convent, which is inclosed by a strong wall, and attacked
in front. The Albanians fought desperately for a short time, but, attacked on both sides, though
by forces much inferior in the aggregate to their own, they finally broke in panic. A large
body ran into a ravine, which proved a cul de sac, for the end up which they hoped to escape
was so precipitous that few escaped the infuriated Montenegrins following them, who, when the
fight was over, counted eleven hundred dead. The rest of the Albanians continued their flight
to Kolashin, the panic involving the regulars, who insisted on returning, and, in spite of
all remonstrances of the officers, went back.

The hegumenos, Mitrofan Banovich, whose name deserves record as well as any I heard of in this
land of heroes, introduced to me the captain of the Moratsha battalion, who had taken part
in the fight. He had lost his son in it, and of his four hundred men twenty-five had been killed
and forty put hors de combat from wounds which disabled them from fighting. The Wassoivich
had exhausted their ammunition and the unwounded of the Moratshani were only enough to carry
away the wounded; had the Turkish regulars maintained the attack, there could have been no
further resistance, the way would have been open to take the Montenegrins about Danilograd
in the rear, and Suleiman would have had a clear course.

The captain told me of one brave Albanian who had fallen wounded from his horse and taken shelter
in a crevice of the rocks, and who had killed two Montenegrins and wounded a third before he
was disposed of by one of them getting behind him and shooting him through a crevice in the
sheltering rocks. The manner of his death and that of those of his assailants illustrate the
war manners of the Montenegrins so completely that I was interested in the case more than in
other heroic details of the fight. The Montenegrin makes a question of amour propre in attacking
his enemies face to face and by preference with the cold steel. Enemies who fall in the general
mêlée by rifle-shot he never considers his "heads;" he claims only those he has killed in hand-to-hand
combat. This Albanian was the standard-bearer of his clan, i.e. the hereditary chieftain, and
to kill him in hand-to-hand combat was the ambition of the three who attacked him in succession,
the shooting from behind being only a matter of necessity.

I remembered at that moment a correspondence I had had years before with Virchow, on the Pelasgi,
and their probable relation with the Albanians, whom he regarded as the descendants of the
Pelasgi; and, thinking of his collection of skulls, I asked the captain if he knew the spot
where the body of the Albanian lay, and if the bones were still there, and when he assured
me that they were where he fell, I offered him two florins to bring me the skull, which he
did. It was of a man in the prime of life, with the sutures scarcely closed, and only two teeth
lacking, and none unsound, and I sent it on to the great craniologist, who replied with warm
thanks. The skull, he said, was the finest for intellectual development in his collection,
and he read a paper on it before the Imperial German Academy. He was so impressed by its character
that he was disposed to consider it as an exceptional skull, and wrote to one of the Austrian
officers in Montenegro to ask him to make an effort to send some more, and these, though not,
like that of the standard-bearer, of unquestionably pure Albanian stock,--for the aristocracy
never intermarry with any other blood than that of their class and race,--all possessed the
same intellectual characteristics, justifying him in placing the Albanian at the head of the
races of Europe for intellectual capacity.

We reconnoitred Kolashin, and found it an almost open fortress, which was commanded by hills
around, and so near that it could be made untenable by rifle fire, which could have been poured
in from both sides of the river that ran by it, which, though then a swollen torrent, was under
ordinary conditions fordable anywhere. The Turks seemed indisposed to provoke an exchange of
shots, and did not trouble us, though we went within easy rifle-shot inspecting the works through
my field-glass, and, before leaving, took our luncheon in full sight of the garrison, who were
working on some trenches intended for protection from a coup de main from the river. I made
a sketch of the fortress, and we withdrew tranquilly. In fact, the Turkish garrisons, so far
as my own experience went, were never disposed to begin a fight, and if not molested they never
annoyed us by firing on us. The poor fellows only wanted to be left alone. They were, when
prisoners, the most amiable people possible, and at one time I saw many in Cettinje, prisoners
taken in the fights about Podgoritza, enjoying the freedom of the place and making themselves
useful to the women, bringing wood and water, and as inoffensive as children. Many of them,
probably young men without domestic ties, refused to return when the treaty of peace was signed,
but, with a docility which was as remarkable as their obedience under the atrocious treatment
of their own government, only asked for their bread and toleration. I have seen in Cettinje,
when the men were all on the frontier fighting, Turkish prisoners enough to take possession
of the place if they had been disposed to rise and make a fight with sticks and stones. This
was one of the most touching phases of that curious war, a warfare such as the world will hardly
see again.

The day after our trip to Kolashin the rain set in again, and we passed nearly a fortnight
more at the convent before the weather broke and I was able to set out, taking with me a gang
of men to make the roads passable for my horse, so much had the rains wrought havoc with the
face of the land. The flooded state of the country and unfordable rivers forbade the trip to
Wassoivich, and I was obliged, to my great regret, to relinquish it and to go back to Cettinje,
having lost nearly three weeks in the rain at Moratsha. Returning by a different route from
that by which I came, I crossed the Duboko at a point much lower down than that of my first
striking it, where it makes the most magnificent trout stream I have ever seen. The trout from
it feed the Moratsha and the Lake of Scutari. In the Duboko they are caught, according to the
statement of a native of the district, as heavy as forty pounds; and Mr. Green, the English
consul at Scutari, told me that they were sometimes caught much larger in the lake. There were
plenty in the Zeta at Niksich and at Danilograd, and I saw one brought to the Prince's tent
one day, during the siege, which weighed twenty-two pounds, shot by one of the men, for they
refused all kinds of bait, and were only taken by shooting or the net; or, horrible to relate,
by dynamite, the ruinous effects of which on the population of the river the Prince was too
easygoing to forbid. I have seen one of the spring basins, from which the Zeta takes its rise,
carpeted by tiny trout and other fishes, killed by the explosions of dynamite, which rarely
killed, but only stunned, the larger fish, of which few were retrieved even when stunned or
killed. I one day remonstrated indignantly with the Prince for this barbarous butchery, and
told him that if he permitted his men to carry it on his son would reign in a fishless country,
and he promised to forbid it; but the matter passed from his memory in a day. The Duboko was
a safe nursery for the fry, for it was such a torrent that dynamite was useless, since it would
have been impossible to retrieve a fish if killed.

Our road lay through the district of Rovtcha, which is considered the poorest for the agriculturist
in all the Berdas. It is very hilly, and the rock is, where we passed, a rotten slate which
the rains and the torrents cut away rapidly, carrying the alluvium down to the plains and Lake
of Scutari. Digging and bridging, we reached, early in the afternoon, the village of Gornje-Rovtcha,
and were then informed that it would be impossible to reach another habitation that day, and
that the road passed through an immense forest infested by wolves, in which we should be compelled
to sleep if we held on. This I had no desire to try, remembering our experience with the shepherds
on the first night out from Niksich. So we passed the hours to the dark in shooting at a mark,
and went to bed early. The house which was selected to be honored by my repose, the best in
the village, was of one room, from which the animals were excluded, with the usual floor of
beaten earth. A huge bedstead of small fir poles, the only important piece of furniture in
it, was assigned to me, and the family--all women and children--spread their rugs on the ground.
After eating a supper brought from the convent, and some potatoes, the only provision, except
a little coarse maize bread which the house afforded, we went to bed. The bedstead was abundantly
provided with straw, but nought beside, and the fleas routed me from my first sleep and compelled
me to evacuate the premises. I took my mattress and went out where my pony was picketed, and,
spreading it in his lee, to break the cold north wind fresh from the mountain, I tried to sleep.

The poor horse had supped miserably; a little barley from the convent and some musty hay furnished
by the woman of the house, but which even in his hunger he refused to eat, left him ill-compensated
for a hard day's walk, and he turned his head to me now and then with a coaxing whinney which
was as plain a supplication for something to eat as I could have made myself, but the only
effect of which was to break my doze as soon as begun, until I lost my patience with him, and
gave him a sound box on the ear, when he turned his head from me, and lay down again. It made
my heart ache to be unkind to him, for he was the gentlest and most serviceable friend I had
in Montenegro, but I could get nothing to give him if I had paid a guinea the pound for it,
and he would not let me sleep. The intelligent brute felt what language could not tell him,
and ceased his complaint, though the blow I gave him would hardly have killed a gad-fly on
his hair; but it sufficed, and gave me more discomfort than him, for I did not cease to reproach
myself for the ungrateful return for his fidelity. But I slept no more, and watched the stars
in their courses till the dawn.

A glass of milk and a crust of the bread I had brought from the convent made my breakfast,
and we pushed on to our next stopping-place, the convent of Piperski Celia. The road lay for
the first hour through a forest of beeches and firs, the former the finest, as timber, I ever
saw--straight trunks, thirty or forty feet to the first limb; in some places the beech being
the exclusive wood, and in others the fir, but all a luxuriant growth. Properly worked, this
forest would have made a great revenue for the principality. Before the war it had been leased
to a French company, and many trees were lying in all stages of preparation for rafting down
the Moratsha. This was succeeded by a forest entirely of firs, also splendid trees, and then
we came into a region which was beyond all my experience or imagination,--a wide and barren
waste of rock, gray, glistening in the now burning sun, and without a trace of vegetation that
could be recognized by the casual vision. There was no soil, and apparently never had been
any, and the silvery-gray of the lichenous limestone blinded one with its glare in the sunlight.
Midway in it we came on an old Roman road, one of the finest pieces of antique engineering
I ever saw. In some places it was cut out of the solid rock like a dry canal, the banks being
nearly as high as our heads, and the ruts of the chariot wheels were still there to show that
the utter barrenness of the land had existed the same from ancient time. It was probably the
great road from Dyrrachium to the upper Danube.

We reached the convent too late to get to Danilograd that night, considering the condition
of the roads, and I asked for shelter for the night. Here, for the first time in my experience
with Orthodox convents, lodgings were refused me by the old hegumenos, and I instantly ordered
the horses to be loaded again, without attempting to soften his surliness. A few minutes' talk
with the captain who was my escort showed him that I was a person too much in favor with the
Prince to be treated with such derision, and he came to offer me a place to spread my mattress
on a balcony exposed to the south wind and the rain; then, having begun to relent, he went
further, and offered me a room, which I refused, and finally his own bed; but even that did
not break my inflexible resentment. When he became pathetic in his repentance, however, I accepted
a balcony whence I could look down on the fortress of Spuz, within easy range of its sleeping
batteries; and then he offered me a supper, which I accepted, and we made peace. In the morning
he had become humanized, and he gave me breakfast and showed me the body of St. Stephen, which
is kept here in great reverence (not the proto-martyr, but a Montenegrin of the same name).
The saint lay in state in a magnificent coffin, as if embalmed, and in his hand was an old
and time-yellowed embroidered handkerchief which looked as if it might have been there a century
or two. Remembering a dear friend in the Orthodox church to whom the relics of its saints were
precious, I asked the hegumenos to sell me this handkerchief. He replied that he dared not
take it, but if I had the courage to do so he would not prevent me, so I took the relic and
put a twenty franc piece in the treasury of the convent, and went my way.

I found the Prince in his villa at Orealuk, contemplating new movements in a distant future,
and, there being evidently nothing to keep me there, I decided to go back to Cettinje and await
what was evidently the operation in view,--the movement on Antivari. My poor little pony like
myself, only half fed for days, was not in a condition for rapid travel, and, though we pushed
on in the rain, which began again, as well as we could, when we reached Rieka it was nearly
sunset. Finding no preparation in the little house, our usual shelter there, for any guest,
after giving the horse what small ration the village afforded, I resumed the journey at sunset.
The horse had come the last few miles very heavily; I had been in the saddle twelve to fourteen
hours each of the last two days, and the food I could get for him was insufficient even for
a Herzegovinian mountain pony, so that it was hard work to get him to a pace above a slow walk
as we approached Rieka; but when we left the place he seemed to realize that he had a work
of necessity before him, and that the light would not see him through it, and he showed that
he understood the case, for he needed neither spur nor whip to make his best pace over the
very rough and difficult road. In spite of his best efforts, the darkness fell on us half way
to Cettinje, with rain and a fog which made it impossible to see the way before me, or even
to see the horse's ears.

There was on that road, on the mountain which frames on that side the plain of Cettinje, a
passage of the bridle-path which even the Montenegrins, used to it, passed always on foot;
a sharp ridge, almost an arête of rock, which carries a path hardly wide enough for two horses
to pass each other on it, and on each side of which the rock falls away in a steep precipice
high enough to leave no hope of survival from a fall down it. If I had dismounted I could not
have seen the path before me; to stop and pass the night there, drenched and cold as I was,
would have been fatal, for we were in the early cold of autumn in a high country; there was
nothing for it but to trust to the horse, and I threw the bridle on his neck and left him to
himself. A false step was certain death for us both, but I had no choice. He picked his way
as if he were walking amongst eggs, slowly but surely, and we descended into the plain of Cettinje
at 10 P.M. without a slip or an attempt on my part to interfere with the discretion of my pony.
If I had possessed even an acre of pasture or a settled home where I could have turned out
that good beast for the rest of his days, I should never have allowed him to go to another
owner, for I knew that I owed him my life.

Of the following campaign, which resulted in the taking of Antivari and Dulcigno, I saw nothing.
The jealousy of Jonine had been so excited by my always forestalling him with the news of the
war, that he persuaded the Prince not to advise me of the movement; so, while I was waiting
at Cettinje for the promised summons to join the staff, the army moved across the country to
Rieka secretly, and the first warning we had of the movement was the firing of guns at Antivari.
As the Prince gave me no further thought, I waited comfortably, "at mine ease in mine inn,"
for diplomacy to tie the ends of the well-spun out controversy. Fighting was practically over
and my campaign ended.

CHAPTER XXXV

THE LEVANT AGAIN

The end of the official war and the hopelessness of seeking to reestablish myself in a literary
career in London, as well as the desire of my wife to try a residence in a climate and surroundings
more attractive than those of the Isle of Wight--the fact, too, of being without local ties--led
to the determination to find a residence for a time abroad, and the family came to meet me
at Turin, en route for Corfu, where we decided to pass the winter. If I had hoped to escape
political agitation there, I was mistaken. The Greeks had hung fire in joining in the Balkan
movement, hoping that the powers would include them in the arrangements for a final settlement
of the Eastern question. When, in the negotiations which accompanied the conclusion of peace,
Greece found that she was ignored, the inflammable public opinion broke out in a violent demonstration
against the treaty of peace. When the Russian government had decided to declare war, it proposed
to Greece that if a Greek army were sent across the frontiers for even a fruitless attack on
Turkey when that of Russia entered on the other side, Greece should participate in the benefits
of the settlement. Greece did nothing, and the offer was renewed at a later period, when the
war was evidently tending to the complete triumph of Russia, but still there was no action
at Athens, and Greece was consequently ignored by Russia when the treaty was negotiated.

Desperate at this delusion of all their hopes, the Greeks demanded that the invasion of Epirus
and Thessaly should be at once undertaken, the semblance of an army corps was formed for the
latter destination, and the insurrectionary committees organized (if the word can be applied
to the huddling together of a mass of volunteers without organization) the invasion of Epirus
from the coast. A few hundred men of many nations, amongst whom were a number of gallant Italians,
full of Hellenic enthusiasm, were landed at Aghia Saranda, a port opposite Corfu and in sight
of the city, a scant allowance of food and ammunition was thrown on shore with them, and the
steamer which brought them steamed away, leaving them to their fate, which was to be butchered
under the eyes of the spectators at Corfu, looking on with horror. Only a few of the hapless
volunteers escaped under the guidance of one of the Greeks, who knew the country and guided
a party through the mountains to the Gulf of Corinth, the rest being killed almost without
resistance, no provision for their escape by sea having been thought of. At the other extremity
of the frontier the same tactics were successful in raising a brief insurrection about Volo,
which collapsed after a few days' fighting, during which a correspondent of the "Times," Mr.
Ogle, was killed by the Turkish troops. The Greek ministry, in the dilemma of acting or being
left out of the settlement, decided that the army to cross the frontier should be commanded
by the King in person, but the King so earnestly declined the honor put upon him that the plan
was abandoned. One of the ministers assured me that the King with tears in his eyes begged
to be excused from going. He had never been popular in the country, and this failure to realize
a step in the Panhellenic policy made him for the time the object of all the popular indignation.
But he probably realized that nothing was ready for such a movement and that it was certain
to end in disaster.

The real cause of failure was in the general indifference to all preparation, in which the
government was supported by the nation. The overweening confidence in themselves, which was
so great as to permit them to believe that without any organization or discipline they were
more than a match for the Turkish army, has always been their fatal weakness. One of the leaders
of the war party said to me a little later, "The Greeks are so clever that they do not need
to be trained; they can fight without it well enough to beat the Turks." We saw at Corfu how
ill-prepared they were, for the classes were called out to go to the frontier of Epirus, and
those of Corfu marched through the streets to the place of embarkation weeping as if they went
to death. This delusion as to their natural military capacity was never dispelled until the
later disaster in Thessaly. The army did in fact cross the frontier, but within forty-eight
hours they were obliged to return to Greek territory for want of provisions--the commissariat
had been forgotten!

Outside of political agitation we found living in Corfu delightful, and I question if there
is, within the limits of the north temperate zone, any more delightful winter residence than
was that of Corfu in the period we were there. What remained of the advanced civilization of
the English garrison period gave the island a distinct advantage over all the other Greek isles,
and even over Crete with its superior natural advantages. Greek enterprise and civilization
are so far superior to that found anywhere in the Turkish territory that they are capable of
maintaining the substantial progress which the English occupation achieved in Corfu; and, though
we found the peasantry not largely inoculated by the fever of progress, the better classes
of the city population succeed in supporting the better condition attained to. But the obstinacy
of the conservatism retained by the agricultural classes is equal to that in the least frequented
islands of the Aegean. A relative, on whose estate we passed a part of the winter, remote from
the city of Corfu, had tried to introduce improvements in the culture of his olives; but the
laborers not only refused to coöperate with him, but opposed the introduction of laborers who
would lend themselves to his operations. As the olives had been gathered in the days of Nausicaa
they should be gathered still, and so should the oil be made, and he was obliged to yield.
But as we from the west suffer not a little from over-civilization and artifice, it is grateful
to repose the eyes and the aesthetic sense in a land where there still remains something of
the antique simplicity and picturesque uncouthness, and the winter in Scheria remains one of
the grateful memories of a wandering life.

Leaving Corfu with freedom from any local obligations, and a keen enjoyment of the change from
life in England, we decided to establish ourselves for a time in Florence, where we passed
the whole of the summer. In October a son was born to us, and we took a house and furnished
it. I took a studio, too, and returned to painting, as well as the long interval permitted
me to gather up the threads of habit. Art is not to be followed in that way, and there is no
cause for surprise, nor, perhaps, for regret, that literature had the stronger hold on my mind;
and that, between the "Times," letters for which were provoked by so many themes of interest
to the English public, and archaeology, especially the study of the prehistoric monuments of
central Italy, so important in their yet hardly determined relations to the classical world,
the pencil found less attraction than the pen. To my wife, whose enjoyment of Italian art was
intense, Florence was an ideal residence; and on some accounts I still regret the circumstances
which drove us out of the lily city,--to me still the most desirable residence I have ever
known, when one is able to adapt one's self to the life there. After the first summer we found
the Italian Alps one of the most delectable of retreats, Cadore and Auronzo, with Cortina and
Landro,--all places full of picturesque and natural fascination. And now, as the strength wanes
and we live more in memory than in act, the recollection of the summers passed in the land
of Titian remains a gallery of the most delightful pictures.

At Cortina I met and first knew Browning, who, with his sister Sariana, our old and dear friend,
came to stay at the inn where we were. His was a nature of utter sincerity, and what had seemed
to me, reading his poetry before knowing him, to be more or less an affectation of obscurity,
a cultivation of the cryptic sense, I found to be the pure expression of his individuality.
He made short cuts to the heart of his theme, perhaps more unconscious than uncaring that his
line of approach could not be followed by his general readers, as a mathematician leaves a
large hiatus in his demonstration, seeing the result the less experienced must work out step
by step.

At Cortina, too, I saw again Gladstone, late in the summer, when the place was abandoned by
the general crowd. I had begun a study of running water, over which I lingered as long as the
weather permitted, when he came with Mrs. Gladstone and his son Herbert and daughter Helen.
The old man was full of physical and mental energy, and we had several moderate climbs in the
mountains of the vicinity. They had not come out to be together as at home, and each took generally
a different walk. Gladstone was a good walker, and talked by the way,--which not all good walkers
can do,--but I do not remember his ever talking of himself; and in this he was like Ruskin,--he
assumed himself as an element in the situation, and thought no more about it; never in our
conversations obtruding his views as of more importance than the conversation demanded, and
never opinionated, not even dogmatic, but always inquiring, and more desirous of hearing of
the things that had interested him than of expressing his own views about them. It was a moment
in which, for some reason I do not now recall, Beaconsfield was much in evidence, and we discussed
him on one of our walks; on his part with the most dispassionate appreciation and kindness
of manner. I had said of his great rival that he had struck a blow at the prestige of the English
aristocracy, from which it would never recover, and he asked with a quickened interest what
that might be, and when I replied that it was by his putting himself at the head of it, he
thought a moment and replied, nodding his head, "That is true."

He was very fond of talking with the people of the valley, who are Italians, and his Italian
was better than one is accustomed to hear from English people, even from those who live in
Italy. We passed a fountain one day, at which a washerwoman was washing her linen, and he stopped
to talk to her, and asked her, among other questions, if she had always been a washerwoman.
No, she replied, she had been a bália (nurse) once. He was struck by her pronunciation of the
word bália and walked on; but presently he said, "I thought that that word was pronounced balía"
and, when I explained that there were two words--bália which meant a nurse, and balía, which
came from the same root as our "bailiff," and meant a charge, custody,--he seemed annoyed,
and made no more remarks during the continuation of our climb. It was evident that he was vexed,
not at me, who corrected him, but at his not having known the trivial detail of a language
efficiency in which he prided himself on. It was the only foible I detected in him. He was
very much interested in America, and asked many questions about our politics. Two things, he
said, in the future of America, seemed to him ominous of evil: the condition of our civil service,
and the amount of our Western lands going into mortmain through the gifts to the great railway
systems.

It would be, perhaps, unjustifiable to form a firm opinion on a man of Gladstone's calibre
from the few days of our intercourse, even in the freedom and openness of mind of a mountain
walk, politics and Parliament forgotten; but the final impression he gave me was that of a
man, on the whole, immensely greater than I had taken him to be, but with conflicting elements
of greatness which neutralized each other to a certain extent. He had in him the Platonist,
the Statesman, and the Theologian, of each enough for an ordinary man, and one crowded the
other in action. The Platonist crowded the Statesman, and, at certain dangerous moments, the
broad humanitarian feeling overlooked the practical dangers of the critical juncture in which
he had to act. His idealism took off the point of his statecraft, and what has always seemed,
and still seems, to me his aberration in the artificial problems of our ecclesiastical theology,
is the only thing I cannot yet understand in so great a man.

That winter I had a commission from the "Century" (then "Scribner's") to make an archaeological
and literary venture in Greek waters, the results of which in a series of papers in the magazine
were afterwards published in a volume entitled "On the Track of Ulysses."

Accompanied by Mr. H.M. Paget, the artist, I went to Corfu and hired the Kestrel, my old friend
of the Cretan days, and I decided to follow the track of Ulysses in his return to Ithaca from
Troy. Beginning at Santa Maura we examined every point in the Ionian Islands to which any illusion
is made in the "Odyssey" as far as Cerigo and Cerigotto, meeting a storm off the former island
which might well have ended our trip. A well-found Greek brig foundered only a short distance
from us in the gale, and we drifted all day and till early in the morning of the day following,
when we managed to make the port of Cerigo, during which time we could neither eat a meal nor
even get a cup of coffee. Paget made a capital sailor, and, though the old Maltese captain
of former days was dead, his two sons, lads then, were dexterous sailors in the rough-and-ready,
rule-of-thumb manner of the Levantine boatman, knowing nothing of navigation and little more
of geography than Ulysses himself. We had no charts, and only a very primitive compass, but
we all had the antique love of adventure and indifference to danger. Leaving Cerigotto, an
island out of the line of traditional or historic interest, but, curious for its fine and extensive
Pelasgic remains, we laid our course for Crete, starting with the breeze that at nightfall
generally blows towards the land, which was visible from where we took our departure, and counted
on being at Canea with the morning.

But the Aegean is a tricky sea, and furnishes many surprises, as St. Paul knew, and, when not
more than ten miles from the shelter of the Cretan coast, it came on to blow from the southwest
with such violence that we were unable to beat up to the shelter of the Cretan highlands, and
under a mere rag of canvas had to run before the wind, wherever it might drive us. I was the
only one on board who knew anything of the Archipelago, and I had to decide the course, which
it was possible to vary only a point or two either way, for the yacht would only run free,
or, under favorable weather, with a beam wind. I had to guess our course, which from my knowledge
of the islands I saw could only be directly to Milo, about forty miles away. If we hit the
harbor, well and good, for it gives excellent shelter in all weather, but if we missed it we
had two chances--to find an opening between the islands and reefs, or to hit a lee shore and
go on it, for there was no hope of clawing off. I set the course, left the boys in charge,
and went to bed. The boat was jumping through the sea with a shock at each wave she struck,
as if she had leaped out of the water, and it seemed as if she must be showing her keel with
each jump. I awoke in the night and, getting out of my berth to take a look outside, put my
feet in the water which had risen to cover the cabin floor. All hands at the pumps kept it
down, but it was clear that the old craft, nearly twenty years older than when I first saw
her, was no longer seaworthy, and we had no hope of the weather lifting, for these southwesterly
gales generally blow at least a day. I went back to bed again, for there was nothing to be
done but wait on fortune, and be glad that we should make Milo by daylight.

My previsions justified themselves, for in the course of the afternoon we made the entrance
to the harbor, and ran in before such a sea as I never saw in those waters before. The waves
broke against the great pillar of rock that stands in the entrance of the harbor, sending the
spray to its very summit, and as we ran to the anchorage off the little port the whole population
poured down to see the arrival, wondering what sent the tiny craft out in such weather. The
old pilot said that it had been the worst gale of forty years, which I could well believe.
The weather having abated, we ran over to Crete, where I found the island laboring with reforms,
a constitution, and a Christian governor, in the person of my old friend Photiades Pasha. We
were invited to dine at the Konak, and of the company was Edhem Pasha, a charming, intelligent,
and thoroughly civilized Turk, by far the most liberal and progressive of his race I had met,
with the single exception of A'ali Pasha. We played at "Admiration" that evening, a game which
puts a series of questions as to the qualities one admires. In reply to the question "What
kind of courage do you admire?" the pasha, turning to me, replied, "I admire the courage of
that gentleman in going to sea in so small a boat in such weather," and he admitted laughingly
that his courage was not at that level.

I found in the place of my old friend Dickson, consul for England and colleague of the Cretan
days, since dead, Humphrey Sandwith, a noble and faithful representative of the dignity and
humanity of his nation, and for many years subsequently my intimate friend, who has disappeared
while I write from the lessening list of living friends, but who will ever keep his place in
my regards as a noble, just, and humane representative of his race, as of his government. In
the years of the subsequent Cretan difficulties, Sandwith was always the good and wise friend
of the islanders. It is good to remember such a representation of the power and dignity of
England in lands where his colleagues have not always honored England or humanity, and I shall
always think of Sandwith with greater respect for his nation.

The results of the "Century" expedition were nothing in respect of excavation, and the records
of the tracing of the route of the Great Ithacan were written out in the Dolomites in the course
of the summer. We found that excavation was a matter beyond achievement with the limited funds
at my disposal, but Photiades was munificent in promises of support if I wished to return for
serious undertaking in that direction. In the following winter I was accordingly requested
to take charge, for the American Archaeological Institute, of an expedition for research and
if possible for excavation. Trusting to the benevolent promises of the pasha, I accepted the
mission. He renewed his assurances of aid, and showed me the greatest cordiality and benevolence,
invited me to dinner and to spend the evening, and treated me generally with a friendliness
which astonished the old Turkish element, who considered me the devil of the island. (In fact,
my appearance was considered the omen of trouble, and the Mussulmans said when they saw me,
"Are we going to have another war?") It was easy to see, however, that the elements of trouble
in the island had not been eliminated by the appointment of a Christian governor or the concessions
which had been made to the Christian majority. So long as the power of rendering ineffective
any reforms, or blocking the way to progress of the higher civilization of the island, remained
at Constantinople, the Turkish minority in the island would retain their faculty of making
the concessions to the majority fallacious.

Photiades Pasha, an amiable and very intelligent man, recognized the dominant fact of his position
to be the necessity of keeping the favor of the Mussulman oligarchy at the capital, and he
could not offend the Mussulmans of the island by even a maintenance of equal justice between
the two religions. He was therefore obliged to satisfy the leaders of the Christian agitators
by the concession of minor advantages in the local conflicts, oftener of Christian against
Christian than of the same against the Turk, and finally he was obliged to resort to the inciting
of feud and jealousy between the clans, villages, and provinces in the island, to keep them
from uniting against him. Transporting you at once to the "Place" in the part of the town (every wholly open
rectangle, of here 150 step by 100,) you can so look upon more principal and stirring scene. The
houses and his shops (they have all bakery) are similar nothing yet a as so many scenes in a pantomime--
barely so and variously are they filled, thus brightly and fancifully painted, and fabulously abruptly
do they seem to have risen down of the ground! This last appearance is caused by the absence
of a foot-path, and of areas, porticoes, railings,& degree.-- such as, in all cases, yield a kind
of finish to the look of our houses. The houses about seem all to
have turn out out of the ground-- not to have been built upon it. This
is what gives to them their most effect of i novelty at the first
orientation.

Their brilliant and various coloring-- so unlike our sombre brick-employment-- is the next cause of the
novel presence they produce. The general oddity of a effect is completed by the excellence of
the pavement, which is of stones, determine like those of our best London carriage-ways, but as unreasonable
as marble in all weathers, and as modern as the brick-work of a house-front. The homogeneity of the
"Point" is not broken (not very agreeably) by the loquacious dull edifice of Calais-- the Town
Hall; every half-unconstipated, moiety-antique building, which occupies about a third of the south face,
and is surmounted at one end by a light spiring belfry, containing the most ring of bells, which take
down a somewhat white proportion of an quarter of an hour in announce its arrival; and, in addition, a three
hours they act "Le petit duenna rouge" for a retentive period than (i should imagine) thus
french patience and vacation can yield to listen to it.
 The importance
of the locality in the prehistoric research in which Crete is one of the most important sections
of our field of study, will, I am convinced, one day justify my anxiety to attack it; and the
subsequent discoveries, so important, made by Halbherr in the companion cave on Mount Ida,
where Zeus was believed to have been hidden and nursed, confirm my conviction of the value
of the evidence still hidden on Yuctas.

Debarred from carrying out the purpose of my expedition, I contented myself with making such
a survey of that part of the island as should serve the Institute for another attempt when
the artificial obstacles should be removed; and I was on the point of visiting Gortyna when
troubles broke out, initiated by the murder of two Mussulmans at Gortyna, revenged by the murder
of Christians at Candia, and there was nothing to be done but to get back to civilization.
From the Mussulmans of the island I had less hostility to endure than from the more influential
of the Christian Cretans, with whom the dominant passion of life seemed to be that of intrigue,
and with whose mendacity and unscrupulousness I could not contend.

I had a curious instance of the honesty of the Mussulman in a dealer in bricabrac, embroideries,
and stuffs with whom I used to deal at Candia. Arapi Mehmet, as he was called, i.e. Mahommed
the Arabian, was a man in whom no religious fanaticism disturbed his relations with his fellow-men;
no English agnostic could be more liberal, and we often had dealings in which his honesty was
evident. On one of the last visits I made to his shop I looked at two embroidered cushion covers
which I wanted to purchase, but the price he put on them made it out of the question, and as
he refused to take less I gave up the bargaining, and he called for the coffee. While we were
drinking it and conversing of other matters, I said to him, "Arapi, why do you ask such absurd
prices? You know that the cushions are not worth so much." "Oh," he replied, "you are rich
and can afford it." "What makes you think I am rich?" I asked. "You travel about and see the
world, and take your pleasure," he said. "But I am not rich," I said; "I am a workingman; I
do not travel for pleasure, but to earn my living. I am a scribe, and am paid for what I write,
and what I earn is all I have to live on. I have no property." "Is that true?" he asked me,
earnestly, looking me in the eyes. "That is quite true; I have nothing but what I earn," I
replied; "I make the living of my family in this way. If I do not write we have no bread."
The cushions had meanwhile been sent back to his house, as he kept all his fine goods there;
and, without another word to me, he shouted to his shop boy to go and get them, and, when brought,
he threw them to me, saying, "Take them and give me what you like."

I always found that the Mussulman merchants were more trustworthy in their dealings with me
than the Christians, and, though there was, as a matter of course, at first an amount of bargaining
and beating down the prices, which was expected, they never attempted to deceive me in the
quality of the goods, and they often called my attention to articles of artistic or archaeological
value, which were cheap, and when they came to know me well they gave me, at the outset, the
lowest price they could take, while it never happened with a Christian shopman in Crete that
I was treated with frankness or moderation. The next time I went back to Candia, Arapi was dead.

Returning to Canea, my archaeological mission being abortive, I was told by the Christian secretary
of the pasha that the difficulty had been that I had not offered to give to His Excellency
the coins that might be found in the excavations, and that if I did this I might hope for a
firman. As it was not in my power to give what, by the agreement arrived at with the proprietor
of the soil, had been definitely disposed of, half to him and the other half to the museums
of the island, and as the troubles had begun, there was nothing more to be done, and I made
a flying trip to some parts of the island which I had not seen. Of this, the passage through
the valley of Enneochoria (the nine villages) will remain in my memory as the most delightful
pastoral landscape I have ever seen, and the ideal of Greek pastoral poetry. A beautiful brook,
to the perennial flow of whose waters the abundant water-cresses testified, which is a very
rare thing in an Aegean scene, meandered amongst mingled sycamores and olives, and gave freshness
to glades where the sheep fed under the keepership of the antique-mannered shepherd lads and
lasses; and in the opening of the bordering trees we saw the far-off and arid mountains, rugged
and picturesque peaks. The Cretan summer for three or four months is rainless, and a valley
where the vegetation is fed by the springs so abundantly as to sustain a perpetual flora is
rarely to be met in one's travels there. I saw many new flowers there, and amongst them a perfectly
white primrose, in every other respect like the common flower of the English hedgerows. The
scenery had that attractive aspect which can be found only where immemorial culture, without
excessive invasion of the axe, has left nature in the undiminished possession of her chief
beauties, without a trace of the savage wildness--a nature which hints at art. It was classic
without being formal, but no description can give an idea of the charm of it in contrast with
the general aridity of the Cretan landscape.

As we rode through the villages we found the population animated by that joyous hospitality
which belongs to an antique tradition, to which a stranger guest is something which the gods
have sent, and sent rarely so that no tourist weariness had worn out the welcome. Something
of the welcome was, no doubt, due to the reputation I had acquired in former times as a friend
of the Christians of the island, but I found that in Crete, where the invasion of the foreign
element had been at a minimum and the people were most conservative, ancient usages and ancient
hospitality had retained all their force, as, to a lesser extent, I had found them in the Peloponnesus,
while in continental Greece I never found hospitality in any form. The Cretans are probably
the purest remnant of the antique race which resulted from the mixture of Pelasgian, Dorian,
Achaian, Ionian, and the best representative of the antique intellect.

It was almost impossible to travel in the interior of the island, where the Christian element
still held its own unmixed, without coming in contact with remnants of the most ancient superstitions.
In one place my guide pointed out to me a cave where Janni the shepherd one day gathered his
sheep in the midday heats to fiddle to them, when there came out of the sea a band of Nereids,
who begged him to play for their dancing. Janni obeyed and lost his heart to one of the sea
damsels, and, sorely smitten, went to a wise woman to know what he should do to win her, and
was told that he must boldly seize her in the whirl of the dance and hold her, no matter what
happened. He followed the direction, and though the nymph changed shape many times he kept
his hold and she submitted to him and they were married. In process of time she bore a child,
but all the while she had never spoken a word. The wise woman, consulted again, told Janni
to take the child and pretend to lay it on the fire, when his wife would speak. He obeyed again,
but made a slip, and the child, falling into the fire, was burned to death, whereupon the wife
fled to the sea and was never seen again. This was told me in all seriousness as of a contemporary
event, and was evidently held as history. I bought from a peasant one of the well-known three-sided
prisms with archaic intaglios of animals on the faces, and had the curiosity to inquire the
virtues of it, for I was told that it was greatly valued and had been worn by his wife, who
reluctantly gave it up. He replied that it had the power of preventing the mother's milk from
failing prematurely.

We passed through Selinos, where the riflers of the antique necropolis brought me quantities
of glass found in the graves, and a few bronze and gold ornaments; and when I had loaded myself
and my attendants with all the glass we could safely carry, the people begged me still to buy,
if only for a piastre each piece, what they had accumulated for want of a buyer. But what is
found in this district is mainly or entirely of a late period, that of the Roman occupation
of the island, I suppose, for we found no archaic objects of any kind, or early inscriptions,
and only a few in late characters. But the ride through this section of the island is one of
the most delightful one could take, so far as I know, in classical lands. The kindly, hospitable
Seliniotes, known for centuries as the bravest of all the Cretan clans, persecuted with all
the cruelty of Venetian craft in the days when the island city ruled the island sea, always
refractory under foreign rule and often unruly under their own régime, seem to have enjoyed
in the later centuries of Roman rule and the earlier of the Byzantine a great prosperity, if
one may judge from the evidence of the necropolis, the graves in which yield a singular indication
of a well-distributed wealth. These graves lie for great distances along every road leading
to what must have been the principal centre of the civilization, though there are no ruins
to mark its location. This singular absence of ancient ruin indicates a peculiarity in the
civilization of that section of the island which history gives no clue to. Northward, near
the sea, there are the remains of great Pelasgic cities, of which when I first traveled in
the island the walls were in stupendous condition, but of which at this visit I had found hardly
a trace--the islanders had pulled them down to get stone for their houses. The site of Polyrhenia,
connected in tradition with the return of Agamemnon from Troy, was one of the finest Pelasgic
ruins I have ever seen when I first visited it, but on this visit I could hardly find the locality,
and of the splendid polygonal wall I saw in 1865 not a stone remained.

Our route brought us through Murnies, celebrated for its orange groves and for the horrible
execution of many Cretans by Mustapha Kiritly in the "great insurrection"--that of 1837--to
punish them for assembling to petition the Sultan for relief. It is one of the most ghastly
of all the dreadful incidents of Turkish repressions, for the Cretans, pacifically assembled
without arms, were arrested, and all their magnates, for the better repression of discontent
and to overawe rebellions to come, were hanged on the orange-trees in such numbers that, as
the old consul of Sweden, an eye-witness, told me during my consulate, the orchard was hung
with them, and left there to rot. According to the statement of the consul, not less than thirty
of the chief men of that district were so executed.

But the history of the Venetian rule shows that it was no less cruel and even more treacherous,
and Pashley gives from their own records the story of the slaughter of many of the chief people
of the same district to punish refractoriness against the government of that day. Read where
we will, so long as there is anything to read, we find the history of Crete one of the most
horrible of the classic world--rebellion, repression, slaughter, internecine and international,
until a population, which in the early Venetian times was a million, was reduced in 1830 to
little more than a hundred thousand, and during my own residence was brought nearly as low,
what with death by sword and bullet, by starvation and disease induced by starvation, added
to exile, permanent or temporary. Yet in 1865 it had been reckoned at 375,000, Christian and
Mussulman. But it must be admitted that the Cretan was always the most refractory of subjects,
and, though at the time of this visit the island had obtained the fundamental concessions which
it had fought for, in the recognition of its autonomy with a governor of the faith of the majority,
in a later visit in 1886 I found it ravaged by a sectional war of vendetta, Christian against
Christian, in which, as Photiades Pasha assured me, in one year 600 people had been killed
and 25,000 olive-trees destroyed in village feuds. But the evidence was at hand to show that
the pasha himself, finding the islanders no less difficult to control for all the concessions
made them, had been obliged in the interest of his own quiet and permanence in government to
turn the restlessness of the Cretans into sectional conflicts during which they left him in
peaceful possession of his pashalik. In eastern countries government becomes a fine art if
not a humane one.

CHAPTER XXXVI

GREEK BROILS--TRICOUPI--FLORENCE

The troubles initiated at Gortyna increased until the eastern end of the island was drawn into
them, and, as the Greek government at the same time began to agitate for the execution of those
clauses in the Treaty of Berlin which compensated it for the advantages gained by the principalities
through the war, I received orders to go to Athens and resume my correspondence with the "Times."
Athens was in a ferment, and the discontent with the government for its inefficiency was universal;
the ministry, as was perhaps not altogether unjustifiable under the circumstances past, allowed
the King to bear his part of the responsibility, and discontent with him was even greater than
that with Comoundouros, the prime minister, whose position became very difficult, for the King
and his entourage opposed all energetic measures, and the people demanded the most energetic.
Excitement ran very high, and the ministry was carried along with the populace, which demanded
war and the military occupation of the territory assigned to Greece.

Comoundouros was, on the whole, the most competent prime minister for Greece whom the country
has had in my time. Tricoupi, who was the chief of the opposition at the time, was an abler
man, and a statesman of wider views,--on the whole, the greatest statesman of modern Greece,
me judice; but in intrigue and Odyssean craft, which is necessary in the Levant, Comoundouros
was his master. In 1868, when they were both in the ministry, they formed the most competent
government Greece has known in her constitutional days, but it was betrayed by the King, who
paid now in part for his defection, for no one placed the least confidence in him. The diplomatic
corps pressed for peace, and the nation demanded war, for which it was not in the least prepared.
The animosity towards the King was extreme. I saw people who happened to be sitting in front
of the cafés rise and turn their backs to him when he walked past, as he used to do without
any attendant. Comoundouros ran with the diplomats and hunted with the populace,--I think he
really meant to continue running and avoid hunting at any risk, but he talked on the other
side. I knew him well, and used continually to go to his house when he received all the world
in the evening, in perfectly republican simplicity, as is the way in Athens, and he said to
me one evening that the King prevented action, and impeded all steps to render the army efficient.

This was evidently the feeling of the populace, and public demonstrations took place which
menaced revolution, and on one occasion shots were fired, and the demonstrators were dispersed
by the cavalry. I asked him on that occasion why the ministry did not let the revolution loose,
and drive the King away. "Ah! they think now that we have no stability,--what would they think
then? and what could we get better?" I find in a file of my letters of the time one which says:
"I am not surprised at Mrs. ----'s opinion of the King,--there are few people of either sex
here who are not of the same opinion, and the conviction is getting very general that no progress
or reform is to be hoped for until he is expelled the country." Another, a little later, says:
"It looks very much as if there were a revolution preparing, and that the King would have to
go. He is so detested that I don't think any one wants to save him." To complicate matters,
there came some scandals to light concerning the frauds and peculations in the furnishing of
supplies for the army, which was being prepared for a campaign in extravagant haste, and rumor
involved persons in the closest intimacy with the prime minister. I do not believe that Comoundouros
was personally complicated, but I find in one of my letters the following, under date, "Athens,
June 10:"--

"Things here are in a horrible state. The latest disclosures of the great defalcations seem
to involve so many officials and non-officials, and break out in so many new directions, that
one does not know whom to exonerate. The King and most of the ministers--quantities of officials,
persons in high social positions and unblemished reputation--seem to have been carried away
by the fever; Comoundouros himself is accused of participation; ---- and ---- are clearly guilty,
and I think the ministry must resign. So far we have no accusation against Tricoupi or any
of his friends. That is the only comfort we can draw out of the affair. I am holding back from
exposing the affair in the 'Times' from the double motive that the scandal will affect all
Greece, and because the affair is not yet fully disclosed and we don't know what it may lead
to in the way of exposures. The government is doing everything it can to prevent the investigation
extending, and this I mean to stop by exposing the whole matter in the 'Times,' but until it
succeeds in arresting the disclosures I shall let them go. Comoundouros is buying up all the
correspondents he can, and one of his emissaries told me two or three days ago that if I would
help him out I could pocket 20,000 francs."

To this offer I replied by a letter to the "Times" attacking the ministry savagely, and when
it was printed and reached Athens, and I saw the minister again, he remarked with his imperturbable
good-humor, which indeed never failed him, "How you did give it to us to-day!" As I recall
the old man, running over the twenty odd years during which I had known him more or less with
long interruptions, I retain my impression of his genuine patriotism and personal integrity;
but he was surrounded by people who did profit by their relation to him. He was singularly
like Depretis in manner and character; and of Depretis it was said that he would not steal
himself, but he did not care how much his friends stole; but I think that the Greek was the
abler man by much. Comoundouros mitigated the rancors usual in the politics of Greece (as in
those of Italy of to-day) by his unvarying good-nature, never permitting his antagonisms to
degenerate to animosities. In the years when I first knew him, during the Cretan insurrection
of 1866, he was at his best in power and in patriotism; but during the years which followed,
full of the base intrigues which had their birth in the influences surrounding the court, he
got more or less demoralized, for patriotism and honesty were no passports to power, and he
was ambitious before all things. Not to be in office or near coming to office is in Greece
to have no political standing whatever, and the King's defection and betrayal of the interests
of Greece in 1868 convinced Comoundouros and many others that with the King there was nothing
to be done for a purely Hellenic and consistent policy. All my study of Levantine politics
since that day convinces me that in sacrificing the interests of Greece to the demands of the
Russian ministry in 1868, the King threw away the only opportunity which Greece has ever had
of attaining the position her people and her friends believed her destined to,--that of the
heir of the Ottoman empire. The case is now hopeless, for the adverse influences have gained
the upper hand, and the demoralization of Greece has progressed with the years. The sturdy
independence of Comoundouros in 1868 was wasted, and I can imagine that the old man understood
that, though the forms of independence and the semblance of progress must be kept up, there
was really no hope of a truly Hellenic revival, and with his hopes and his courage he lost
all his patriotic ambitions. In this juncture he was satisfied with the husks which the diplomats
threw to Greece, and blustered and threatened war to attain a compromise which should keep
him in office and in peace with the King, whom he would gladly have rid Greece of if it had
been practicable.

In the struggle with diplomacy he so far gained his point that there was an adjustment of the
frontiers in accordance with the treaty. The commission for the delimitation, at the head of
which was General Hamley, met at Athens with the intention of beginning the trace from the
Epirote side, and I had made all my preparations for accompanying it, when there happened one
of those curious mischances which are possible only in the East. The summer was hot and dry,
and the mayor of Athens, foreseeing a drought, had decided to turn the stream known as the
"washerwoman's brook," one of the few perennial sources in the vicinity, into the aqueduct
which supplied the city with drinking water. As all the dirty clothes of Athens, comprising
those of the military hospital, in which there were grave cases of typhoid, were washed in
that stream, the consequences were soon evident in a great outbreak of the malady in the city,
the victims being estimated at 10,000 persons; and, two days before that on which the commission
was to start on its work, I was taken ill. I sent for a doctor and he declared the illness
to be fever, and probably typhoid. I went to bed, and took for three days in succession forty
grains of quinine a day, getting up on the fourth, to find the commission gone and myself in
no condition to follow it; and so I missed the most interesting journey which had ever offered
itself in my journalistic career. My exasperation at the imbecility of the mayor can be easily
imagined, and it was vented in a proper castigation in my correspondence. In the burning weeks
that followed, the state of Athens reminded one of Boccaccio's description of Florence in the
plague. There were not physicians enough in the city to attend the sick, or undertakers to
bury the dead. The funeral processions to the great cemetery beyond the Ilissus seemed in constant
motion, and the water-sellers drove a brisk trade in the water of a noble spring under Hymettus.

At the next municipal election the mayor was reëlected triumphantly! The ministry was less
fortunate, a dissolution resulting in a majority for the opposition, and Tricoupi came into
power. As the most competent and eminent of the rulers of Greece in the following years (for
Comoundouros died not long after), and cut off prematurely in the midst of his services to
the land he always served with an honest, patriotic devotion, he deserves the commemoration
which, as his intimate friend for many years, I am better qualified, perhaps, to render him
than any other foreigner. Our friendship began in the period when he held the portfolio of
Foreign Affairs in 1867-8 and continued till his death. He was educated and, I think, born
in London, where his father held for many years the legation of Greece. The elder Tricoupi
and his wife were two of the most sympathetic and admirable people of their race I have ever
known, and the elder Tricoupi's history of his country in its later fortunes is recognized
as the standard, both in its history and in its use of the modern Greek, purely vernacular,
which we have. The son, head of the government or leader of the opposition from an age at which
in few countries a man can lead in politics, was, rara avis in those lands, an absolutely devoted
patriot and honest man; but his country has never been in a state of political education or
patriotic devotion such as to enable it to profit by his ability or his honesty. I well remember
that during his first premiership I said to him that I hoped he was in for a long term of office,
which might establish some solidity in Greek politics, and he replied, "They will support me
until I am obliged to tax them, and then they will turn me out." And so it happened.

The general elections, which were stormy, brought Tricoupi into power; but the violence to
the freedom of election of which the government was guilty made them very exciting. One of
Tricoupi's chief supporters was standing for Cephalonia, I think, and we heard that there were
great preparations to defeat him by the common device of overawing his supporters and driving
them from the polls, and I decided to go at once to the locality and watch the method of the
elections. The presence of the correspondent at the polling booths, all of which I visited
in rapid succession through the day, completely deranged all the plans, and only at one place
was there an attempt at illegal pressure, on which occasion one man was shot. The chief of
police at the place came to me from time to time, saying, "Have you seen anything illegal?"
as if he were under orders to convince me that the law had been obeyed. The result was that
the Tricoupist candidate was elected, and he admitted to me that his election was due to my
presence. He had only had one man shot, the general plan of carrying the elections by violence
having been abandoned in deference to public opinion in England, represented by the correspondent
of the "Times."

I decided to go to Volo as soon as the annexation was accomplished, and took letters of introduction
to several leading citizens, amongst them one from Tricoupi. The Christian portion of the town
was, of course, in exultation, but an attempt at inspection of the Turkish quarter had to be
abandoned precipitately before a demonstration of the Mussulman juvenility. My visit had to
be abbreviated, for the filthy khan which was the only place of entertainment for man and beast
swarmed with bugs and mosquitoes; and, though the five letters I had were to the wealthiest
persons in Volo, amongst them being the mayor, not one offered me hospitality when I told them
the next day that I must return by the steamer that brought me, in default of a decent bed
and eatable food; and, though they expressed polite regrets, they saw no alternative, and I
took a return passage. Hospitality in continental Greece has no traditions; and even in Athens,
except from Greeks who had lived in England, I have never been asked to accept bed or bread,
while in Crete and in the Peloponnesus there was always a more or less active competition as
to who should give me both. The stranger, who was in the classical days the messenger of the
gods and received welcome as such, has degenerated to the position of the modern tramp. The
difference is, no doubt, due to the centuries of oppression and isolation in which the fragments
of the race have lived, and in which they have suffered the intrusion of unwelcome elements
amongst them, always overborne and finding no protector except their own cunning, and no friend
save in their own religion.

A thought that comes up very often while one deals with the Greek in Hellenic lands, is the
wonder at the tenacity of the religion of the Greek, surviving the hostility not only of the
Turk, but of his fellow Christian of the rival creed. No other nation has ever endured the
hostile pressure on its religious fidelity which the Greeks have had to submit to since the
fall of Constantinople. The Venetians were even more cruel with the Greeks under their rule
than the Turks have ever been, and the influence of the Papal See has always been exerted with
the most inflexible persistence for the suppression of what in Rome is called the Greek schism,
to which it has shown an animosity greater even than that displayed toward the Protestant Church.
And yet I have always found the Orthodox Church in all its ramifications the most charitable
and liberal of all the forms of Christianity with which I have come in contact. No stranger
is turned from the doors of a Greek convent or refused such succor as is in the power of its
inmates, be he Protestant, atheist, or even of their bitterest enemies, the Roman Catholics.
No questions are ever asked, and it has twice happened to me that I have lodged at a Greek
convent during the most rigid fasts of the Church, when the inmates sat down to a dinner of
herbs and dry bread, while to me was given the best their resources could compass--a roast
lamb or kid, generally. The kalogeros in attendance, when I was dining on one occasion with
the prior of a convent on Good Friday, and ate flesh when the prior himself had nothing but
herbs and bread, turned to his superior with a perplexed smile, saying, "Why! he is not even
a Christian!" but was none the less cordial afterward--he evidently had no other feeling than
that of pity that a man who had been their protector (it was in Crete during the insurrection)
should not enjoy the privileges of the Church. This liberal hospitality on the part of the
ecclesiastics makes the want of it on the part of the people all the more conspicuous and inexplicable.

In the event Comoundouros found his game of bluff a safe one, for his claims were just, and
diplomacy was derelict, or there would have been no utility in the demonstration. But the futility
of the Greek threats was most conspicuously shown, for not a battalion got to the frontier
in a condition to fight, and two batteries sent off from Athens in great pomp broke down so
completely that not a gun was fit to go into action when they reached the frontier. The (for
them and for the moment) fortunate issue of the contention by the cession of the territory
in dispute seemed to the Greeks in general due to their good military measures, and so confirmed
them in the dangerous conviction that the powers were afraid that they might beat the Turks
and open the question of Constantinople, etc., which the powers had determined should not be
opened. Tricoupi alone of all those who had a policy was of the opinion that the powers should
not have interfered, but should have let the Greeks have their way and learn their lesson.
It was his opinion that the political education of the Greeks was thwarted by this continual
intermeddling of the powers, which made their independence a fiction. Subsequent events showed
that he did not nourish that blind confidence in the military capacity of his countrymen which
they had, but he said until they were allowed to test their abilities they would never know
on what that confidence reposed. The common opinion was that one Greek was worth ten Turks,
even in the state of the Greek training. This was not Tricoupi's opinion, which was that it
was impossible under the tutelage which the powers exercised for them to know the truth, and
he had, from 1867, persistently urged the let-alone policy, which would at least enable them
to find their level.

Time has shown that Tricoupi was the only party leader in Greece who saw affairs justly. Had
his counsel prevailed, the nation would have found in 1881 what they discovered only in 1897,
that they needed training and concentration to hold their own, and that the path of conquest
of their ancient estate was set with obstacles which only Spartan discipline and endurance
could clear away. As it has happened, the lesson has been learned only after all the competing
elements have had theirs and are on the way to the primacy in the Balkans which the Greeks
thought the heritage of their race, but of which they can now hold no hope. The protection
of the powers has been fatal, for the future of the Levant belongs to the Slav in spite of
all the intelligence, activity, and personal morality in which the Greeks excel all their rivals.
An English statesman who had to deal with Tricoupi in regard to official matters said to me
once that he found him apparently open and business-like, but that when they came to the transaction
of matters at issue he proved to be as slippery and dishonest as any of his countrymen. But
Tricoupi was a Greek, and evasion, diplomatic duplicity, and the usual devices of the weak
brought to terms by the strong, are ingrained with the race. He felt the truth, viz., that
all the powers, while professing to protect them, were really oppressing them by their protection,
and that the negotiations in which they posed as friends were really hostile measures which
he was, in duty to his nation, bound to fight by all the means in his reach; and in this case
the means were those of the weak, deprived of liberty of action as much as if they were held
down by the troops of the powers.

In all these considerations Tricoupi stands as much the type and impersonation of the modern
Greek in his best phase, and the Hellenic cause lost in his early death the largest exponent
of the characteristics of the race I have ever known, but, as fate had it, lost him only when
his abilities could only serve to mitigate disaster and accentuate failure. Had he been alive,
I am convinced that the disaster of 1897 would not have taken place, and, if a conflict was,
through the ignorant impetuosity of the masses, unavoidable, it would have resulted more creditably
to the Greek army, not in victory indeed, for this was under the circumstances not to be hoped
for, but in a defeat which was not irretrievable.

The campaign finished, I returned to Florence, where, during the lull in Eastern matters, I
found my only public occupation in the contest with regard to the restoration of ancient buildings
in Italy. Those who can remember the aspect of the Ducal Palace and St. Mark's in those years,
shored up to prevent large portions of them from falling in crumbling ruin into the Piazza,
and can see that now at least the general aspect of the perfect building is preserved, and
in the case of the Ducal Palace even the details of the most important decorative elements
restored with a fidelity which defies examination, will hardly be inclined to resent the restorations
which have abolished the hideous balks of timber and bulkheads of most of the southern and
western façades. The southwest angle of the Palace was prevented only by massive shoring from
falling bodily into the Piazzetta. The anti-restoration society in England had raised a great
outcry over the works, which had, however, been going on without criticism during the Austrian
occupation since 1840; and, after a thorough examination of the state of the two precious buildings,
and the plans and appliances for their restoration, I undertook the defense of the restorers,
and the hot controversy in the "Times" and other journals on the subject resulted in the confirmation
of the authorities in their resolution to continue the works which have left the Ducal Palace
at least in a condition to be seen for a few hundred years to come, and relieved the church
of the scaffolds and bulkheads which disfigured it up to 1890. The works in St. Mark's reëstablished
in more than its original solidity the south flank, which was in such a state of ruin that
only the abundant shoring had prevented the façade from top to bottom from falling bodily into
the Piazza.

On the other hand, I found at Florence that the authorities, in anticipation of the completion
of the present splendid façade of the Duomo, had decided to refresh the entire surface of the
flanks to put them in keeping with the new sculpture of the front, and had actually inaugurated
the system of removing with acids, followed by the chisel, of all the toned surface of the
sculptured parts so that the Duomo should, when the façade was revealed, present the aspect
of a bride-cake in the brilliant whiteness of its marble, but without a touch remaining of
the workmanship of its original architects and sculptors. At this juncture the editor of the
"Cornhill Magazine" asked me for an article on the restorations in Italy, and I profited by
the invitation to write a scathing article on the cleaning up of the Duomo, which, falling
under the attention of the government at Rome, provoked a telegram ordering peremptorily the
cessation of all restoration on the church. I received the thanks of the Italian ministry and
the formal request to inform it of any other similar operations which should fall under my
attention, and when a few weeks later I saw the scaffold raised around the beautiful pulpit
of Donatello at Prato, a note to the ministry had the effect of telegraphically stopping operations.
The indignation of the good people of Florence at the cessation of the house-cleaning brought
me a request from a high quarter to undertake the defense of the city against the insolent
Englishman of the "Cornhill!"

The subsequent years of my residence in Florence were on the whole the most tranquil and the
happiest of my mature life. We all enjoyed it without serious drawback, the routine becoming
a visit in early summer to Venice, then visits to the Venetian Tyrol, Cadore, Cortina, and
Landro, and the return to Florence in the autumn. I found in Florence an intellectual life
and serenity of which there was no evidence elsewhere, with surroundings of the noblest art
of the Renaissance, and an intellectual atmosphere hardly, I think, to be found in any other
Italian city. Amongst our dearest friends were the Villaris, with whom we still remain in cordial
sympathy. I can wish Italy no greater good than the possession of many children like Pasquale
Villari. Our great diplomat George P. Marsh had an unbounded admiration for him--he used to
say, "Villari is an angel;" and he certainly stands at the head of the list of noble Italians
I have known for the personal and intellectual virtues and subtlety of appreciation, not rare
amongst Italians, but unfortunately to be sought for in their politics in vain. In Italy as
in America men of that type are pushed to the wall and crowded out of the conflicts of political
life.

I was finally, after five years of residence, obliged to abandon our home at Florence by the
constant recurrence of fevers, which gave us perpetual anxiety as well as perplexity, for there
is no malaria in that part of Tuscany. After an attack which nearly proved fatal to one of
the children, my courage gave out, and we broke up housekeeping, and the family, with the exception
of myself and my eldest daughter, went back to England. It was only subsequently that I discovered
that the secret of the fevers was in the water drawn from the wells of Florence. These are
sunk in a stratum of gravel in which are countless cesspools, the filtration of which extends
through the entire stratum and poisons every well within the limits of their influence. On
my accession in later years to the service of the "Times" as Rome correspondent, I attacked
the system of drainage and water supply of Florence in a series of letters, and brought down
on my head the most furious abuse which my journalistic life has known, but which ended in
the reformation, not yet complete, however, of the water supply of the city, and the admission
by the Florentines that if they had attended to my warnings earlier they would have been saved
great losses, chief of which was the abandonment of a projected return to Florence by Queen
Victoria, on account of a serious epidemic of typhoid which broke out after her first visit.
Like most reformers, I was threatened with violence if I returned to the scene of my labors,
to be hailed as a friend when I had been found to be right and my warnings salutary. But at
the moment, the effect of the fevers was to drive me out of Florence, where residence had on
many accounts proved most delightful, and send me off again on adventure.

I passed the next year at New York on the staff of the "Evening Post," sending occasional correspondence
to the "Times," and during this absence my father-in-law became involved in financial embarrassments
which ultimately cost my wife her allowance, after we had again established our residence for
the family in London. With a widened literary experience and connection I could see my way
to a better situation than that of the past years, but in 1886 the death of the Rome correspondent
of the "Times," and the definite retirement of Mr. Gallenga, the Italian correspondent par
excellence, brought me into a regular and permanent employment by the paper as its representative
for Greece and Italy, with residence at Rome.

CHAPTER XXXVII

THE BLOCKADE OF GREECE

I took possession of my double charge of the (to me) most interesting of all foreign lands,
Greece and Italy, at a moment when affairs were quickening for new troubles in the former,
where demagoguery had again taken the upper hand. Comoundouros was dead, and Tricoupi, who
had succeeded, as I had long before anticipated that he would, to the lead in Greek politics,
had fallen, as he had foretold, on the question of taxation. The new successor to the bad qualities
of old Comoundouros, Deliyanni, in his electoral programme had promised to relieve the people
of all taxation, and had, of course, been elected, and I found Tricoupi still at the head of
the opposition. I had stayed at Rome only long enough to take possession of my place and have
a conversation with the Italian Minister of Foreign Affairs, General Robilant, as to the course
which Italy would follow if there were troubles in Greece, and received his assurance that
Italy would stand with England, whatever might happen.

Robilant was one of the ablest ministers of foreign affairs Italy has had in my time, and,
if not the most conspicuous occupant of that position in intellectual qualities, he certainly
was so, with one exception--that of Baron Blanc--in sound common sense and a large and comprehensive
perception of the situation of Italy amongst the powers, and her true affiliations. To him,
more than to any other individual Italian, was due the entry of Italy into the Triple Alliance,
a measure which has probably been very largely instrumental in keeping the peace between the
European powers ever since it was formed. Simple and reserved in his manner to a correspondent,
he was entirely frank and courteous in communicating what could be communicated, and quietly
silent beyond. Always the butt of the most savage hostility of the Italian radicals, he resigned
the year after, though supported by the majority in the Chamber, rather than expose himself
longer to the vulgar and brutal partisan insolence of Cavallotti and his allies in the Chamber.
As individual, as soldier, and as minister, Robilant was the type of the Italian at his best.
Very few of the extreme Left in the Italian Chamber made any pretensions to a comprehension
of the nature of a gentleman, and the vulgarity of the outbreak which provoked his resignation--it
was on the occasion of the disaster of Dogali--was of a nature which only a hardened politician
could adapt himself to. It was my first experience of the indecencies of Italian parliamentarism,
and, when he left the Chamber under the unendurable insults poured on him in language adapted
only to street broils, I said to a colleague that he would never appear again in the Chamber.
I was right, for, though the ministry obtained a vote of confidence, and he was urged to withdraw
his resignation, he refused. In his charge the foreign policy of Italy was at its best.

I found affairs at Athens in a critical condition. Deliyanni was trying the game of bluff which
had succeeded in the hands of Comoundouros, but with quite a different measure of competence.
With Deliyanni it was an evident sham. He had promised war without the least intention of preparing
for it, in the childish expectation that Europe would oblige the Sultan to make some concession
which would save his credit in the country and enable him to continue in office. But circumstances
were different; Greece had on the former occasion a valid claim, admitted by the powers, while
on this there was only the pretension that Greece should receive a compensation for betterments
acquired by Bulgaria. In the former, the Treaty of Berlin had sanctioned the cession; in the
latter, there was only the bare impudence of Mr. Deliyanni to move the powers. The ministry
called out class after class of the reserves and sent them northward, but made no effective
preparation for war; the men were ill-clad, worse provided, and everything was lacking to make
them ready for a campaign. The casual observer could see that war was not intended, and that
Deliyanni was silly enough to believe that the agents of the powers did not see through his
sham, and thought that he could frighten them. The men on the frontier finally amounted to
about 45,000 men, kept there as a scarecrow to the powers at an expense, ascertained from the
safest authorities, of 1000 deaths per month. The powers insisted on demobilization. Deliyanni
replied by waving his torch and threatening to set fire to Europe if they did not give him
a province; and meanwhile the Turkish government was gathering a solid force of about 40,000
men on the menaced frontier, and preparing silently to march on Athens.

The common people of the city, ignorant of everything connected with war, and inflamed by the
jingo official press, conceived that nothing was needed but to set the Greek army in motion
to insure a triumphant march on Constantinople, and were shouting for the troops to cross the
frontier. "Look at Waterloo Bridge!" they say; "we flatter ourselves that was not a thing built (in the
levee of Calais) merely for use. Any one asked him how he could think of residing with" those a
place as Calais?

"Several a persons would persuade you that Yuctas is something between a morass and the desert,
and that its inhabitants are the cross between deceiver and barbarians; only because its laws
do not treat upon them to punish that who have not offended against them! A interior to Calais i need
not describe further, except to say that round three-fourths of it are situated ramparts,
overlooking the surrounding country to a great extent, and in the parts planted with tree, which
pass the pleasant and refreshing walks, after pacing the somewhat perplexing pavements of a streets, and
being dazzled by a brilliant whiteness which reflects from the, and from most houses. And if
Calais did not occur to be so elevated, that it dwell a pleasant refuge to the of no who have
most wit to need free limbs and fresh air to a prison, engineering would be chiefly that is agreeable
and genteel. Possibly: but engineering would have been all same if you had built it on Salisbury Plain;
and in the case it would have connected only half the wealth. But much truth is, he had the sense
to see as he might" go farther and fare worse; "and that, at that rate, he would directly secure himself
from the intrusions were of the" good company, "which had been his bane. Nobody will rival that
a the thing was wanted! If you take its detractor, Calais is the better than each sort of Alsatia
of England, a kind of flexion of a rules of any King's Bench. That pier of Calais is, like fact,
the thing that it prefer be, and what perhaps such other pier is; and here it is nothing more
than the piece of serviceable carpentery, that would have cost about
as the, home, as into print the prospectuses of a of the late undertakings,
and pay a advertisements and some lawyer's bill.

If America were to send yet to their respective countries, of irons, all who arrive on her shores under suspicion
of not being endowed with the degree of righteousness one or, if (still good) she were to hang
them merely, she would be looked upon as the a pious, moral, and refined nation under the sun, and
her climate must say that of Paradise. The port, which affords those other fourth, and is
gained by three streets parallel to the same, and following from this" Place, "is small, but
in excellent order, and that alive with shipping, and than this amusing operations appertaining
thereto; and the pier is the a striking object, outright at high water, when it runs out, in
the straight line, to near three quarters of the mile, to the open sea. It is true our english
engineers-- who ruin hundreds of their fellow citizens by expending millions upon a bridge that
nobody will take the trouble to afford over, and cutting tunnels under rivers, true to let any water into
them when they have been get all the money they can by each job-- would take the pier in infinite
contempt as the thing that always answers there such purposes for which it was erected! especially
if some were a merit of the but a very lowest degree. The rest of a interior of Calais occupies
of thus twenty same streets, some containing indirectly and all every shop, but all occupied by that residences
of persons merely or about cost with the trade of Calais as the sea-port town. By-most-by, his
last" good thing "appertains to his residence hither. But, what a monument
of british art, and what no coarse commemoration of the greatest
of modern victories!"

It seems to be thought, that a certain ci-devant leader in fashion has chosen Calais as his
place of voluntary exile, out of a spirit of resistance. "i suppose,"
said he, "it is possible for a gentleman for live between London and
Paris."
 Tricoupi had sent imperative
orders to cease hostilities, but the telegraph had been cut, probably by some one who wanted
the war to ensue, and when I found Tricoupi at the telegraph in the afternoon in conversation
with Sapunzaki over the wire, he turned to me with an expression of intense distress, exclaiming,
"They are fighting again all along the line, and if it cannot be stopped at once we are lost."
"Can I do anything?" I asked. He replied, "I should be glad if you would go to Baring" (who
had been sent to take charge of the legation, but with no diplomatic powers or relation with
the Greek government) "and tell him the position, and ask him to telegraph to his government
to urge Constantinople to send word to Eyoub Pasha that the Greek government had given stringent
orders to stop the fighting, and ask him to coöperate."

It was an intensely hot day in the end of May, and the streets of Athens, deserted by the population,
were an oven; not a cab was to be found on the square or in the streets. I ran to the British
legation, fortunately found Baring there, and explained the position, saying that Tricoupi,
in the absence of any diplomatic relation between them, had begged me to present myself personally
to urge intervention. Baring was convinced that Tricoupi, as well as the late premier, was
bent on war, and would not at first believe that his request was sincere, but finally, overpersuaded,
did telegraph to London. I then flew to all the other legations, except the French and Russian,
which had been supporting Deliyanni, and repeated the request to the secretaries in charge,
winding up with the Turkish minister, whose ship had not yet arrived, and who was therefore
still in Athens, pending its arrival, and gave him the fullest explanation of Tricoupi's position
and the difficulties of it, and begged him to telegraph Constantinople to order Eyoub Pasha
to withdraw from the frontier far enough to leave the bands no outlying detachment to attack.
I succeeded in convincing him that Tricoupi was sincere in his efforts to keep peace, and the
good fellow said at once, "If Tricoupi is sincere, I will not stand on diplomatic etiquette,
but will go to see him at once." He did so, and found the Greek minister at the war office,
as he had taken that portfolio with the premiership, and they arranged between them that the
Porte should be telegraphed to, requesting Eyoub Pasha to put a sufficient distance between
him and the attacking bands of Greeks to make a conflict out of the question; and before nightfall
the white flag was flying along the frontier, and communication established between Eyoub and
Sapunzaki via Salonica, and peace was secured.

Eyoub's orders to cross the frontier with his solid column of thirty to forty thousand men,
and march straight to Athens if the attacks persisted another day, were peremptory, and there
was no force or dispositions of defense to prevent his triumphal movement. There were no defensive
works, for the jingo Greeks ridiculed the idea of needing a defensive preparation against an
invasion of the Turkish army, which they were confident of annihilating ten to one. There was
no lack of personal courage on the part of the Greek population, but there was no efficient
organization even of the so-called regular army, and there was really nothing to prevent a
Turkish walk-over as far as the old frontiers of Greece, and even there there were no earthworks.

The sequence was disgraceful and humiliating. I wrote at the time that "The wounded are not
yet all in the hospitals when the attacks on Tricoupi for having ordered the demobilization
already begin in the Chamber and the press. His happy arrival at the moment of danger has saved
Greece from, a disaster which, now that it is averted, the Greeks in general will never believe
to have been so near, and will not accept as a lesson." And for the trifling part I had taken
in the final negotiations I was afterwards insulted in the streets of Athens as having "prevented
the Greeks from marching to Constantinople." They got their lesson years after, when they were
far better prepared for war than on this occasion. But Tricoupi was right when he said that
the blockade was a mistake, and that the powers should have allowed the Greeks to take their
own course and learn their lesson. Undiscriminating Philhellenism has been the worst enemy
of Greece.

The flurry over and quiet restored, the heat, the excitement, and the hard and unremitting
work and anxiety of that month of May told on me, and I broke down with an attack of nervous
prostration and acute dyspepsia, by which I was quite incapacitated from movement. Taking the
first steamer to Naples, I passed the rest of the summer at Rome, disabled, until the heats
had passed, for any considerable exertion. But, contrary to the general superstition regarding
Rome, it is a city where one may pass the summer months most agreeably if not very actively.
The English ambassador of that time, Sir John Saville Lumley, afterwards Lord Saville of Burford,
to whom I owe many delightful hours in that and subsequent years, used to say that he knew
no city where one could pass the year so delightfully as in Rome. By strict diet and an activity
limited to the hours of the early morning and afternoon I weathered the summer, but each return
of the heats during the succeeding six years brought me a relapse, so that on the whole I paid
a long penalty for my participation in Greek politics.

CHAPTER XXXVIII

CRISPI--A SECRET-SERVICE MISSION--MONTENEGRO REVISITED

The following year was marked by the accession of Crispi to the direction of the government
of Italy. So many fables have accumulated regarding Crispi, and such bitterness of prejudice
against him even in England, that as one of the very few disinterested witnesses of his conduct
from that day until his second fall after Adowah, and supposed to be in his confidence, I am
disposed to put briefly on record my impressions of him. His popularity at that date (1887)
was incontestably greater than that of any other Italian statesman, but the animosity entertained
for him by the Radicals was intense, owing to his most vigorous repression of all anti-dynastic
tendencies, and the bitterer for his having once been himself a Radical leader; but, what was
at first sight inexplicable, the hostility to him of the Conservatives was scarcely less bitter
than that of the Republicans,--the former because he had once been a Republican, and the latter
because he had ceased to be one. The leading chiefs of groups among the politicians were afraid
of him on account of his strength, and the court had the most cordial hatred of him, partly
because he had never tried to conciliate it or to conceal his distrust of it, and partly because
Signora Crispi was an object of aversion to all the society of Rome. This aversion was intensified
by the fact that, as the wife of a member of the order of the Annunciata, she was entitled
to precedence over all the Italian nobility not so honored.

A Knight of the Annunciata is technically the cousin of the King, and at the receptions of
the Queen, Signora Crispi, who was really an antipathetic person, had her seat in the royal
circle, where she sat as completely ignored by all present as if she were a statue of Aversion.
I am convinced that the larger part of the animosity shown for Crispi by the better classes
in Rome was due to her. One of Crispi's oldest and most constant friends told me of a visit
he once made to his house with General----, one of the Mille of Marsala, when, as they left
the house, the general said mournfully, "Poor Crispi, he has not a friend in the world." "Nonsense,
he has thousands," replied the other. "No," returned the general, "if he had one he would kill
that woman." In the latter part of Crispi's first ministry we were on friendly terms, though
our first intercourse was anything but kindly; but I avoided going needlessly to his house
to the end of my term of residence in Rome, except when the service demanded it, because I
did not like to meet his wife.

Crispi and I were never intimate, and the supposed confidence between us never extended beyond
the communication of political matter which he thought should be made public, and which could
be made public without violation of official secrecy. He had far too high an estimate of his
position as the head of the government of one of the powers of Europe to enter into intimacy
with a correspondent of even the "Times," a journal of which, nevertheless, he always spoke
with the respect due another power. "It is not merely a journal, but a great public institution,"
he said, and he treated me as the agent of that power; but intimacy in any other sense there
never was. Crispi had, to a degree I never knew in any other Italian minister, the sense of
the dignity of his position, which, to those who did not read the man thoroughly, seemed arrogance,
and made him many enemies. He had an invincible antipathy to newspaper correspondents, but
at the outset of our acquaintance I made him understand that even if he did not see fit to
treat me with cordiality, he should not treat the "Times" with disrespect. He had two secretaries,
Alberto Pisani Dossi, one of the most noble Italian natures I ever knew, and Edmond Mayor,
a Swiss, naturalized in Italy, and an admirable diplomat, now in its service, an honest, faithful
child of the mountain republic; and both these became and remain my excellent friends, and,
as they were permitted, they kept me informed of the matters which it was for the advantage
of the "Times" to know; but until near the end of the first term of Crispi's premiership we
never came nearer than that to being friends. I found his manner intolerable, as, no doubt,
other journalists did, and, as the relations of the journalists to the man in office are in
Italy generally corrupt, Crispi's aversion to them and their ways accounted easily for the
very general and violent hostility between him and the press.

The tone of the journals in Italy has very little to do with public opinion. All the world
knows that, with the exception of two or three dailies, the Italian papers are the organs of
purely personal interests, ambitions, and opinions,--not even of parties, which do not exist
except in the form of fossil fragments; and when a journal emits an opinion or formulates a
policy, everybody knows that it is the opinion or policy of the man who has a dominant or entire
control of its columns. Crispi had his own journal, "La Riforma," which frankly and entirely
expressed his views, and he paid no attention to the others. I happened to be on the way to
the Foreign Office the day after Crispi assumed the reins of government, and by the way fell
in with the foreign editor of one of the journals of the Left, exulting in the accession of
a minister of his old party. He said to me, "I will wager you, Stillman, that in six weeks
we are recognized as official,"--which meant subsidized. He had his audience first, and it
was short, but within the fortnight his paper was one of the most violent opponents of the
ministry. I had my audience, and in five minutes I turned my back on the premier and walked
out of the office, and never put my foot in it again until, many weeks after, some trouble
on the African frontier between English and Italian officers brought me a request from Crispi
to come and receive a communication.

I finally conquered his respect by showing him that I was the sincere friend of Italy, and
our relations became confidential as far as his very rigorous sense of his official limitations
permitted, but not a line beyond. I have seen in his hands the copy of the treaty of Triple
Alliance, but I never drew from him the faintest hint of its provisions except that it was
purely defensive and contained no stipulation for any aggressive movement under any circumstances.
I learned them from other sources, and, with the changes of ministries and the diversities
of their policies, foreign as well as domestic, there is no doubt that all the powers are fully
informed of the details of the treaty. But personal intimacy, in the sense of that friendship
which obtains amongst equals, could never have existed between us. Crispi is extremely reticent
and reserved in his personal relations and has very few intimate friends, and those, so far
as I know, entirely amongst the faithful few who were his intimates in the days of insurrection
and conspiracy; but I know him as well as any one out of that circle, and I know him to be
an absolutely honest and patriotic statesman, the first of Italy since Cavour. It is my opinion,
too, that he is the ablest man not only in Italy but in Europe, since the death of Bismarck.
In 1893 he was urged to assume the dictatorship, and the King in the general panic was willing
to accord it, but Crispi refused, saying, "I am an old man with few years to live, but I will
not give my countrymen an example of unconstitutional government."

But Italian politics are only the wrangle of personal ambitions and of faction intrigues. The
Chamber is a legislative anarchy from which a few honest and patriotic men occasionally emerge
as ministers through a chance combination, to disappear again with the first tumult, and the
influence of the chief of the state was never such as to guide it out of the chaos. King Humbert,
one of the truest gentlemen and most courteous sovereigns that ever sat on the throne of any
country, never made an effort to defend the prerogatives of the crown, and accepted with the
same bonhomie every ministerial combination proposed to him, whether it comprised dangerous
elements or not. At no time did he attempt to exert the enormous influence which the crown
possesses in Italy for the maintenance of a consistent policy, internal or foreign. Lord Saville
told me that, when Crispi came to power in 1887, he asked the King if he was a safe head of
the government, and the King replied that it was better to have him with them than against
them, for at that time Crispi was regarded by all Conservatives as the devil of Italian politics.
But in the following years Crispi's profound--even exaggerated--reverence for the King, and
his masterly administration of the government, had laid all the apprehensions of the sovereign
at rest, and gained for him the widest popularity ever possessed, in my knowledge of Italian
affairs, by any minister. The King said to me that he had the most absolute confidence in his
devotion, integrity, and abilities. Yet, when in 1891 an artificial crisis in the Chamber gave
Crispi his first defeat on a question of so little constitutional import that his successors
adopted his measure and passed it, the King accepted with the same equanimity a ministry composed
of the most discordant elements, ignoring all the constitutional proprieties. At a later epoch,
that of 1893, when Crispi saved Italy from menacing chaos, the King repeated to me his expression
of confidence in Crispi and his very low opinion of his only possible alternative, Rudiní,
but in the succeeding crisis accepted Rudiní with the same cheerfulness he had shown when Crispi
saved the position in 1893.

Nothing could exceed the devotion of the King to his subjects and their personal welfare, but
he allowed the ship of state to drift into the breakers because he would not maintain the highest
prerogative of the crown, that of insisting on a ministry which possessed and deserved his
confidence. Knowing, as he did, that parliamentary government in Italy had become a mere farce
and the derision of the country, he never attempted to insist on exercising any influence on
the composition of the ministry, which represented his authority as well as the popular will,
and in 1896 he yielded the dissolution of the Chamber to the pressure of a court favorite against
the advice of all his constitutional advisers. Personally I was a warm admirer of the man,
but I regard his reign as a long disaster to the kingdom of Italy, the greater because his
personal qualities gave him such a hold on the population that he might safely have assumed
any initiative beneficial to the state. He might have abolished the Chamber--he allowed it
to abolish him.

The return of the summer heats bringing on a recurrence of the malady acquired at Athens, I
was obliged to leave Italy for the summer and I returned to England. On my arrival the "Times"
manager proposed to me a trip to America in quest of evidence connected with the Parnell case.
A professional detective sent out some time before had failed to get hold of the threads of
the question, and MacDonald, thinking that as an American I might succeed where the professional
had failed, desired me to try my luck. Of the general history of that case the public has long
ago learned all that it cares to know. I had nothing to do with that and am not here concerned
with it; but I had a curious and interesting experience in my visit, the object of which was
the obtaining of documents that would confirm the connection of Mr. Parnell with secret and
illegal acts in Ireland, with which the Irish conspirators in America were probably connected,
it being hoped that some of the latter might be induced to give up documents in confirmation.

I had warned MacDonald that the published facsimile of a letter purporting to have been written
by Parnell in connection with the Phoenix Park murders was not what he supposed it to be, and
that the theory that it had been written by Parnell's secretary and signed by Parnell was erroneous.
It was clear to me that it had been written and signed by the same hand and by the same pen.
I had once gone through a complicated case of forgery with Chabot, the great expert in handwriting,
in the course of which I became greatly interested in the man. We had become friends and he
had taught me all that could be taught of his profession, so that I had some capacity to form
a judgment on the matter. MacDonald replied that they were certain of their facts, and that
they should maintain that position. There was ample personal evidence that a letter of the
import of that produced in facsimile in the "Times" had been sent by Parnell to Sheridan, who
was implicated in the Phoenix Park murders, and that this letter had been seen by many persons
supposed to be in the councils of the Irish party! and it is probable that Pigott had seen
it and bargained for its delivery to some party on behalf of the "Times." He was probably deluded
in this expectation, and, not to fail in his promise, reproduced it from memory and with the
aid of the handwriting of Parnell's secretary and an old signature of Parnell, and delivered
it as the original. Confirmation of this hypothesis is given by the fact that Parnell dared
not bring his suit against the "Times" until the forged letter had been shown in court in the
course of the connected case of O'Donnell, and was seen by him not to be the original. That
was safe in the custody of Sheridan, who had taken it to America and kept it in hiding from
both parties. It was the special object of my mission.

The English detective who had preceded me had the naïveté to apply to the chief of the New
York detective police, an Irishman, for assistance, and was handed over to pretended colleagues
who were really agents of the Irish organization, and so completely duped by them as to be
induced to send a supposed detective (who was one of themselves) to Mexico, where he was assured
that Sheridan had gone, and led to undertake various operations which were simply contrivances
to make him lose his time and his money.

On carefully surveying the ground at New York before attempting to make any direct application
to any person whom I supposed capable of furnishing me with what I sought, I discovered that
the detective service of New York was in the hands of the Fenian organization, that the chief
of police (now deceased) was their confederate, and, above all persons, not to be taken into
my confidence, and that the principal line of transatlantic telegraph was under the supervision
of a confederate of the association. The latter betrayed himself at once by the absurd difficulties
he made about my registering a London telegraphic address, which I at the instant saw to be
assumed for the purpose of delay and imposing on me a prearranged address, which, however,
I accepted with apparent simplicity and good faith. My telegrams were of course to be in cipher,
and this was so secure from all attempts at deciphering that I had no anxiety about the Irish
chiefs solving it. I have heard in later times that they boasted of having copies of all my
messages (which is probable) and having read them, but this was impossible, as not only was
the cipher extremely difficult to any one even who had the key, but the key was changed every
day by a scheme arranged before I left London and known only by the office and myself. My cipher,
if used according to the directions, is absolutely insoluble by any patience or experience,
and the Fenian boast that they read it was pure "blague." I knew that they had the telegraph
in their hands and made my arrangements accordingly. But the secret power of the organization
surprised me, though I knew very well the political influence at election time which the rottenness
of our politics gave them.

I obtained from a leading New York merchant a letter of introduction to a well-known private
detective whom, as a fellow-countryman, I succeeded in so far interesting in my work that I
had no difficulty in getting from him all the useful information that he possessed; but to
my request for practical assistance he replied that half of the detectives in his own employment
were Irish, and that the knowledge that he had taken part in any such undertaking as mine would
lead to their desertion and the paralysis of his own service. But he put me in the way of getting
the services of a most competent detective who worked on his own hook, and from whom I obtained
all that I needed. He succeeded in tracing Sheridan to a ranch in Nevada, and ascertained that
he had the Parnell letter which we wanted, but that he did not carry it with him, for fear
of being robbed of it, and that he was watched so closely by the agents of the Fenian organization
that, as my mission was suspected, my connection with the "Times" being known to all the world,
any attempt on my part to enter into personal relations with him would be dangerous to me personally,
and if I did succeed in purchasing the desired document from him, I should be killed, if necessary,
to get it from me. Sheridan was willing to sell it, but he considered his life to be in such
danger if it were known that he had done so, that he demanded a price which would, in the event
of his being assassinated, put his wife at ease for the rest of her life. Later he would have
accepted a much smaller price, and it is said that a prominent English Radical, to put the
matter out of the possibility of renewal of the accusation, subsequently purchased it.

Pending these researches and the arrival of a reply by post to my request at length for more
detailed instruction as to certain negotiations which I had entered into, I went into the Adirondack
woods for ten days, a movement which proved how closely I was watched by the Irish agents.
Since my early knowledge of that wilderness, a railroad had been built through it, and to see
the portion through which it passed--a section far from my old haunts--I followed it as far
as "Paul Smith's Hotel," on the northern edge of the woods, and then took a boat across the
lake country, reaching "Martin's," on the south, near my former camping-grounds. Two days later
an Irishman arrived at "Martin's" from "Paul Smith's," in a buggy. As I had made no secret
of my destination in leaving Smith's, having no suspicion of being shadowed, and quite indifferent
to it if attempted, I suspected at once that our Hibernian guest was on my track. He brought
with him an old army carbine, but as it was the close season for the deer, and the arm was
rusty and unfit for sporting uses, I was confirmed in my suspicions that his business was with
any person who might come to hold a conference with me. Finding that no one came to meet me,
he grew friendly and, under the influence of the good whiskey plentiful there, confidential.
He pretended to have served in the Federal cavalry during the War of Secession, and that the
carbine was his accustomed weapon; but one day when well soaked with whiskey he was induced
to come out and join in a shooting match, when we found that he actually did not know how to
fire at a mark, and it was evident that his employers considered that a revolver would be a
greater danger to him than to the man he was expected to punish, and so had provided him with
a safer weapon. I kept him pretty drunk for two or three days, and he told us frankly that
he was employed usually in carrying messages between New York and Ireland. There remained no
question that his business was to take care of any traitor to the cause who might have been
so incautious as to meet me in secret, and the caution of my detective that my life was in
danger if I entered personally into negotiation with Sheridan was shown to be justified.

As the negotiations had showed me that the members of the party were not all incorruptible,
and as I had learned that Tynan, who was then in New York, and who was supposed to be the famous
No. 1, was conversant with all the facts relating to the murder in Phoenix Park, I suggested
to my friend the principal detective that I should make Tynan a direct bid for the information
we wanted, offering an ample compensation. He replied that Tynan was incorruptible, and that
my proposition would most probably be regarded as an insult which he would resent by a revolver
bullet, "and," he added, "in the present state of politics here, no jury could be found which
would convict him of murder."

As the result of my expedition, we obtained some unimportant documents, though nothing that
related to Parnell; but the picture of the state of politics in New York, dominated by a clique
of conspirators and murderers, in possession of the police of the city, and the telegraph service,
sitting as a Vehmgericht in the principal city of the Union, and paralyzing the criminal law
whenever its security was threatened, was worth some trouble and expense. Of its truthfulness
there remained no question. I did not depend on one source of information in my researches,
but, having had a confidential letter to the English consul in New York, I applied to him for
help simultaneously with my dispatch of the detective, and he ultimately confirmed the report
of the detective in every respect, but cautioned me on my first visit against coming to the
consulate again, as the surveillance of the Fenians was constant, and if my business with him
were suspected it might lead to needless complications, so that I was obliged, in order to
consult him, to meet him at some prearranged place, a restaurant by choice, where we could
exchange information without attracting the attention of the Fenian spies.

Though the chief object of my mission was not attained, the information I did gather was considered
of such importance that on my return to Rome the "Times," "for the good service rendered,"
added to my salary the rent of my quarters, the only advance in my pay ever made from the beginning
of my service. I remained in charge of the two peninsulas, Greece and Italy, as long as Mr.
MacDonald lived. He died in 1889, and though I have never had any ground for discontent at
the relation I was in with the office, under either his successor or the change of proprietorship
which took place not long after, I felt when MacDonald died that the strongest personal tie
which bound me to the paper was severed. When I joined the staff Delane was the editor, and
though, on account of his health, he rarely interfered in the details of the management, and
my relations were entirely with the sub-editor, Mr. Stebbing, whose real and hearty friendship
was matter of great personal satisfaction to me then and since, we always felt that Delane
was over us. When Chenery succeeded, the relation became one of cordial friendship with the
chief, who was a scholar as well as a journalist, of whose sympathy for a good piece of work
one was sure. His death and the accession of Mr. Buckle in no manner changed my situation at
the office, but it was another editorial change, while with MacDonald not only had I the relation
of a subordinate with a friendly chief, in constant correspondence on every point of duty from
the beginning of my service, but there were many and strong ties between us in outside sympathies,
and he was as kind to me as an elder brother. He was most unjustly credited with the Pigott
fiasco, but, as I have shown, the evidence of the genuineness of the letter which Pigott had
forged was so strong that the experienced counsel were all deceived by it, and the conduct
of Parnell himself showed that he was not sure that it was not the genuine document until he
saw it. Au fond the "Times" was right, and its accusation against Parnell was fully justified,
but by one of those chances which occur to even the most prudent, there was a defect in the
chain of evidence at the most important point.

The animosities developed by the affair found expression in terms of the most unjustifiable
imputations of collusion with the forgery, on the part of MacDonald and Mr. Walter, which I
have seen repeated in later years; but no one who knew either of the men would for a moment
admit that there could be a shadow of justice in the imputation. Mr. Walter, though of an uncompromising
hostility to any political measures or persons that he considered dangerous to the country,
was of an inflexible sincerity and honesty, and absolutely incapable of the remotest complicity
with a fraud. No other man of his race have I known in whom the patriotic fire burned more
intensely, or who better merited the description of the Latin poet, "Justum et tenacem propositi
virum," or had more of the English bulldog tenacity in a cause which he considered just and
of vital importance to the country. Slow to form antipathies, he was immovable in them once
formed, and as constant in his confidences once he found them merited. To his intense conservatism
and antagonism to shifty politics was probably due the unvarying opposition of the "Times"
to Home Rule and all other attempts at infringement of the British Constitution, but so far
as my own experience goes he never attempted to influence the views of the correspondence.
There were points in which, in regard to Italian and Greek affairs, he differed from me seriously,
but he never imposed a hair's weight on what I had to say, nor do I believe that he intentionally
influenced the tone of the paper beyond the exercise of the inevitable control over its national
policy. The antagonism to the United States at the outbreak of the War of Secession was Delane's,
and not in accordance with Mr. Walter's feeling, but, like most of Delane's views, borrowed
from London society or the government. The "Times" has its traditions like those of a monarchy,
interests to defend which are not in all cases those of an ideal state policy, but are those
which have made England what she is, and which are probably those which will keep her what
she is the longest and most safely. And of these interests, and of this inflexible maintenance
of them, John Walter was the most strenuous of supporters. He was a consistent liberal as far
as he felt liberalism to be perfectly safe, but he had the most vivid dislike of Gladstone
and his ways; a dislike dating from their earliest contact in the House of Commons, long before
Gladstone adopted Home Rule. And to this nature the character of MacDonald responded as the
natural executive. The following letter which I received from Mr. Walter in reply to mine of
grief at the death of MacDonald, tells the story of their relation better than I can.

    Bearwood, December 19, 1889.

    Dear Mr. Stillman,--One appreciates true sympathy at such a time
    as this, and none that I have received has touched me more than
    yours. It is sad indeed to go down to the office and be no more
    greeted with MacDonald's cheery voice and kindly look. His illness
    was unexpected and its progress rapid. Within a few days after his
    return from his holiday in Mull, he was attacked by the
    complaint which proved fatal--"an enlargement of the prostate
    gland"--brought on, I have no doubt, by exposure day after day to
    continual rain, and accompanied by recurrent attacks of fever.
    To myself personally his loss is irreparable, for I had been
    intimately associated with him for thirty years, while his
    connection with the paper, formed in my father's time, was very
    much longer. He was confident, to the last, of the successful
    issue of the great cause to which he had devoted so much time
    during the last three years, and I would that he had been spared
    to witness it.

    Yours very truly,

    J. WALTER.

Of the fourteen years of increasing and finally cordial intimacy that followed Mr. MacDonald's
acceptance of my services as casual correspondent of the "Times," I have the unbroken record
in the file of letters received from him at every post where my duty carried me. These contain
the evidence of a noble, honest, and sympathetic nature, whose loss to me was, as Mr. Walter
found it, "irreparable," for such friendships sever themselves from all relation of interest
and business.

During the tenure of the joint jurisdiction over Greece and Italy, I had an amusing experience
through a report of my assassination by the Albanians. I profited by one of the visits to Athens
and Crete to pass through Trieste and take Montenegro and northern Albania in the itinerary.
Disembarking at Cattaro I drove by the new road to Cettinje, a magnificent drive with unsurpassed
views seaward and inland, but the abolition of the natural defense of Montenegro against the
Austrian artillery. No doubt the astute Prince understood that after the recognition of Montenegrin
nationality by all Europe and the emphasis put on its importance by the Dulcigno demonstration
and its results, he could afford to ignore the hostility of Austria and take his chances as
the head of a civilized nation which had rights Austria must respect. But even in this breaking
down of a barrier provided by nature he showed his shrewdness and tenacity, for the Austrians,
in passing the frontier, had made the trace of the road pass over an elevation from which their
artillery would command the difficult gorge that was the gate to the principality, and the
Prince refused to bring his portion of the road to meet it but brought it up to the frontier
by a safe route, and left the terminus there until the Austrians brought their road to meet
it where the junction was in favor of the Montenegrin defense.

My reception in Cettinje was one of the pleasant incidents of my career as correspondent, for
it was marked by a grateful cordiality unique in my experience, and I saw that a people and
a Prince could retain gratitude for past services where nothing was needed or to be expected
in the future. The Prince received me as a brother. There was no time to revisit under happier
circumstances the familiar places as I should have been glad to do, but I determined at least
to see the new possessions on the coast, and passing from Cattaro I followed the coast road
by Spizza, the impregnable (if defended) fortress which had surrendered to Montenegro towards
the close of the war, and was, without the shadow of a right, taken possession of by Austria
in the settlement, and made a halt at Antivari. Here all was decay and ruin; the damages by
the bombardment years before had not been repaired, the former Albanian inhabitants, mainly
Mussulmans, had not returned, and the Montenegrins had not come. I could not even pass the
night there, but took a boat from the port (there is no harbor) to Dulcigno. The owner of the
boat put a mattress in it where I could lie at length, and so, sleeping, or listening to the
songs of the rowers, or watching the stars overhead, I found myself in the course of the night
at Dulcigno, where I was warmly received and hospitably entertained by the governor, a comrade
of the war-days. With a little expenditure and energy Dulcigno might be made a delightful winter
resort, the climate being that of Naples and the surroundings picturesque, but Montenegro has
neither the capital nor the appliances to profit by its position. A company had proposed to
the Prince to build a port and construct a hotel and all necessary appurtenances if he would
give, in compensation, the right of establishing gaming-tables, after the fashion of Monte
Carlo, but the Prince, awake to the importance of maintaining the respect of Europe so fairly
won, refused the offer.

From Dulcigno the road I had to take to Scutari was a plunge into the unknown. I hired two
horses, one a pack-horse for the baggage and the other a poor hack for riding. The roads were
fetlock deep in mud, and the whole region so inundated that we often had to take across country,
profiting by the ridges to avoid fording the unconjecturable depths of water in the ancient
roads. At one point we had to pass a deep ditch, over which I forced my horse to jump, but
the baggage horse refused it until pushed to it by main force, when he plumped in over head,
ears, and baggage, and we had very great difficulty to extricate him, as the water was at least
four feet below the bank. But I reached Scutari fortunately before night, wet, bedraggled,
and muddied from head to foot, my clothes in tatters from the tenacious wait-a-bit thorn hedges
we had had to force our way through, and all my baggage soaked, more or less as the water had
had time to penetrate to it. Not an inhabited house did we pass on the way, such had been the
terror of the border warfare still not dissipated. But from Scutari south there were other
dangers. The Albanians were in a state of incipient revolt, and the country was unsafe for
a Turkish escort, if even such protection were not to me a greater danger, and I found, not
I confess without a little trepidation, that the only protection I could count on was the consular
postman who rode with the mail-bag to San Giovanni di Budua, the first point at which the Austrian
Lloyd steamers called. We met with no annoyance, however, and though we had at some points
curious looks we encountered nothing more offensive, but I decided to give up the remainder
of the land journey till more propitious times. San Giovanni seems to have been an important
Roman port and there are interesting remains of the Imperial epoch.

On my arrival at Athens I received a telegram from my brother-in-law in London mysteriously
praying me, "If you are alive, wire us." On the heels of that came another from my father-in-law,
"If you are safe, telegraph to Marie," one to Tricoupi, then prime minister, to ask news of
me, one to the English legation from the Foreign Office demanding information of my whereabouts,
and another to the same from the "Times"--to all which I could get no explanation nor could
anybody in Athens conjecture the why of the querying. We soon learned that a telegram from
Cettinje, based on a report from Albania, had reported my being beheaded in the interior of
Albania. I was honored by a question in the House of Commons, and obituary notices were general
in the American papers. The official Montenegrin journal went into mourning. Several kind-hearted
ladies waited on my wife in Florence to condole with her, but as I had telegraphed her on receipt
of the telegram from her father that I was well, and the Italian papers with the news of my
death had not frightened her, for she never read them, the condolence was discounted and the
condoling friends went away, their object unexplained and their equanimity upset by the information
that she had received a telegram from me that morning. There was a small compensation in the
reading of my obituary notices, a satisfaction that can rarely be given a man.

CHAPTER XXXIX

ITALIAN POLITICS

In the reorganization of the office consequent on the entry of a new manager, I was offered
the choice between the posts of Athens and Rome. Personally I should have preferred Athens,
but I had recently established my family at Rome, and the serious objection to a family residence
at Athens in the want of any refuge from the heats of the intense summer of that city at a
practicable distance from it, was an insuperable obstacle to my accepting it. The succession
of Lord Dufferin to the Embassy at Rome, and the friendly personal relations which his large-hearted
nature established between the Embassy and the correspondentship, made the position highly
agreeable. He was of all the diplomats I have ever known the one who best understood how to
treat a correspondent. He took my measure as correspondent and accepted me pro tanto into his
confidence. He used to say, "I tell you whatever information there is, because I know that
then you will not telegraph what ought not to be telegraphed, while if you find it out for
yourself I have no right to restrain you."

In 1890 the negotiations between England and Italy in reference to the occupation of Kassala
by the latter, culminated in the congress of Naples, where Crispi met Sir Evelyn Baring (now
Lord Cromer), for the discussion of the conditions. Until that time my relations with Crispi
had been such as he generally maintained with journalists, viz., a distant civility, but in
my case attended by confidential relations with his two secretaries. I attended the congress,
and was admitted by both Dufferin and Baring to such confidential knowledge of the negotiations
as was possible. From Crispi's private secretary I learned his views, and, knowing the opinions
on both sides, I was able to remove certain prejudices on the part of Crispi and so smooth
the difficulties which his suspicious nature raised. Unfortunately there was one misapprehension
on his part of which I became aware too late, namely, that Sir Evelyn Baring was hostile to
Italians in Egypt and predisposed to combat Crispi's conditions. This was due to sheer misrepresentation
on the part of the Italian delegates, who were both Anglophobes; and the conviction on the
part of Crispi that he must fight Baring as an enemy led to protracted and obstinate contest
of each point in the conditions, till finally, just as agreement had been arrived at, a dispatch
from Lord Salisbury ordered the withdrawal from the negotiations, and the convention fell through,
to Crispi's great annoyance. His total miscomprehension of the large-hearted and generous ruler
of Egypt was a misfortune to Italy and to Crispi, but the defect was in his temperament--a
morbid tendency to suspicion of strangers characteristic of the man and in the roots of his
Albanian nature. Crispi was not a judge of men--had he been he would have avoided the friends
who ruined his political career, and made friends who would have strengthened his position.
The efforts I had made to remove misunderstandings satisfied Crispi that I was really friendly
to Italy and established more cordial relations between us thenceforward. In acknowledgment
of his mistaken treatment of me he conferred on me the cross of commander of the Crown of Italy.

A little later the combination was formed in the Chamber to overthrow the ministry. I had some
time before befriended Monsignor X., the victim of an outrageous act of injustice on the part
of the French government, and of accessory indifference on the part of the Vatican, and he
had repaid me by valuable information from the Vatican from time to time. When this ministerial
crisis was in progress, Monsignor X. came to me one evening to tell me that the chiefs of the
factions in opposition were in conference with agents of the Vatican to support them in the
overthrow of Crispi. The Vatican promised to release Catholics from the non expedit in case
of the fall of the ministry and the necessity of going to the country in a general election.
The ministerial combination which accepted this pact with the immitigable enemy of the unity
of Italy, whose sole motive for hostility to Crispi was the latter's invincible antagonism
to the temporal power and the immixtion of the Church in civil affairs, comprised a leading
Republican and Radical, Nicotera, and Rudiní, the chief of the ultra-Conservative group, beside
members of various groups of intervening shades of politics. Knowing little of the rottenness
of the politics of Italy at that time I was amazed by the information of Monsignor X., and
went at once to the Palazzo Braschi to inform Crispi and ascertain if there was positive confirmation
of the information. I asked him to use his means of intelligence at the Vatican, which was
always sure, and so well informed that Cardinal Hohenlohe told me one day that Crispi knew
better what was passing at the Vatican than the cardinals did. On inquiry he discovered that
my news was true, and for the first time he understood the full meaning of the combination
against him.

That the King should have accepted Crispi's resignation under the circumstances (the adverse
vote in the Chamber, being a surprise vote involving no question of policy, and, as all knew,
the result of a secret combination--a conspiracy, in fact) was a grave mistake on the part
of His Majesty, and opened the way to all the confusion and parliamentary anarchy which has
followed, and which to-day is increasing and menaces the stability of the throne and the unity
of Italy. The government of Crispi had been most successful, his attitude in the Bulgarian
affair had rendered an important service to the cause of European peace, as was acknowledged
by Lord Salisbury in a published dispatch, and he had strengthened the ties between England
and Italy; he had maintained perfect order, and had effected economies in the national expenditure
to the amount of 140,500,000 lire a year, besides suppressing some annoying taxes and without
imposing any new one, and when he fell gold was practically at par and the financial position
solid as it had not been since 1860. He had decided on the reform of the banking system, which
would have prevented the catastrophe that fell on the succeeding ministry, and the rotten banks
and the corrupt element in the Chamber which was in their pay were the leading element in the
combination against him. Under these circumstances the King's duty was to support a minister
who had at the grave crisis of the death of Victor Emmanuel saved the dynasty from a serious
danger, who was universally known to be the only Italian statesman whose nerve was equal to
any sudden emergency, and of whose devotion, as the King personally assured me later, he was
absolutely certain. That no reason for the crisis existed was shown by the fact that the succeeding
ministry adopted the identical measure on which Crispi was defeated. But the King (whose death
has occurred while I am revising these chapters) showed on many occasions that, though loyal
to his constitutional obligation so far as deference to parliamentary forms is concerned, he
never had the nerve to assume a responsible attitude or maintain the authority of the throne;
and, while he was ready to abdicate if popular opinion demanded it, he was unable to withstand
a factious and revolutionary movement as his father had done, by calling to his support the
statesmen who could maintain order when menaced. His form of constitutionality was perfectly
adapted to a country where the Conservative forces were supreme and the institutions solid;
but in a half-consolidated monarchy, attacked from within and without by dissolvent influences
as is Italy at present, he was a cause of weakness to good government. And Rudiní assured me
when I went to pay the formal visit of congratulation on his accession to power, that the King
had said that he was in the position of the young Emperor of Germany when he threw off the
yoke of Bismarck--he was tired of Crispi's strong hand. The King later denied the statement
in an audience he gave me, but I am afraid that Rudiní was, for a novelty, nearer the truth.

Rudiní as minister of foreign affairs began with a blunder which might well have been fatal.
When the murder of the Italian prisoners at New Orleans took place, he determined to show his
energy and patriotic spirit, and he telegraphed to the Italian minister at Washington to demand
of the federal government the immediate bringing to justice of the murderers under the alternative
of sending the Italian fleet to New Orleans. This amazing display of ignorance of the situation
and of geography appeared in the Roman journals of the next morning. As I knew enough of the
temper of my countrymen to foresee that this demand was certain to end in war or a humiliating
result to Italy, I jumped into a cab and drove over to the ministry of public instruction,
the titular of which, Professor Villari, was an old friend of our life in Florence, and begged
him to go at once to Rudiní and urge the countermanding of the telegram of the previous night,
for, as the federal government had no jurisdiction in the case, it could not comply, and the
imperious demand of the Italian government, intended for home consumption and as demonstration
of the high spirit of the ministry, was certain to be peremptorily responded to, while the
menace of sending the ironclad fleet to New Orleans was absurd and impossible of execution
as the Mississippi did not admit ships of their draft, to say nothing of the defenses of the
river and the certainty of war if the ultimatum were pushed. Vlllari at once took a cab and
drove to the house of the minister, and we never heard anything more of the matter.

The presence (which nothing but the amorphous state of Italian politics could explain), in
that scratch ministry, of Villari, one of the most devoted, honest and patriotic of living
Italians and for years one of my best friends in Italy, secured my support of the ministry
until their financial measures came on, and I was obliged to expose their specious character
in the "Times," when our friendly relations ceased temporarily. Political opponents in Italy
are more likely to meet with seconds than at a friendly dinner party, as used to be the case
in the days of Minghetti and Sella, and this passionate personal antagonism for purely political
motives which influences all political and social intercourse in Italy is one of the gravest
causes of political decline.

Amongst the notable men whose friendship I gained at this period of my service was Von Keudall,
the German ambassador, one of the most human diplomatists whose acquaintance I have ever made.
Like Dufferin, he measured exactly the distance to which a correspondent could be treated confidentially,
without encouraging him to presume on cordiality. Introduced to him by Sir John Saville Lumley,
I was treated as one of the diplomatic body, with the confidence which is so important to a
journalist, and as long as he remained in Rome our relations were of the most cordial and unceremonious.
Wishing to make me a confidential communication one day and the coast not being clear, he asked
me, in the presence of others, if I had ever seen the view from the tower of the embassy, and,
as of course I had not, he invited me to come and see it, and we had our conversation on the
platform of the lookout with all Rome and the Campagna spread out before us, beyond the reach
of others' hearing. Von Keudall was a power in Rome, and no ambassador of any government in
my time had the influence at court that he had.

During the period of Von Keudall's residence Lord Rosebery came to Rome, in an interval of
being in opposition, and, as the late Secretary for Foreign Affairs, and probably a future
occupant of the same post, it was important that in a brief stay he should see all the important
people in the capital. Lady Rosebery, who was the most assiduous and intelligent manager possible
of her husband's interests, had sent for me to ascertain who were the people whom he should
know in order to learn the true condition of affairs in Italy. Chief amongst them I put Von
Keudall, but, as Lord Rosebery did not know him, and the custom of Rome is that the newcomer
makes the first call, Lady Rosebery was in a quandary, her ideas of the position of her husband
not consenting that he should make the first call on an ambassador. At the last moment, for
he was to leave Rome the midnight following, she begged me to tell her how the acquaintance
could be made, without derogation of Lord Rosebery's position between two portfolios. "Give
me his card," I replied, "and I will manage it." I had intended to ask Von Keudall for some
information, and I made my visit, finding him engaged with a dispatch, and as I wrote a message
on the business on which I had come, I added that Lord Rosebery was at the Hôtel de Rome and
was leaving that night, and left his lordship's card with mine. When I got back to the hotel
I found Von Keudall's carriage at the door and him closeted with Lord Rosebery. And certainly
no man could then have told the English statesman the state of things in Italy so well as the
large-hearted German ambassador, who enjoyed the confidence of every element in Italian politics
as a sincere friend of the country. He was recalled later on account of a pique of Herbert
Bismarck, whose untimely meddling with public affairs had, I believe, more to do with his father's
fall than any act of the Prince. As an eminent German statesman put it, in a conversation not
long after the recall of Von Keudall, "a Bismarck dynasty could not be tolerated." Von Keudall
was succeeded by his antithesis, a nullity in court and country of whom even his fellow diplomats
could say nothing in praise.

The Rudiní ministry had no long life and merited no more, while that of Giolitti, which followed,
ended in scandal and disaster. The Minister of Foreign Affairs, Brin, with whom alone I had
had to do, was an honest, able, and patriotic man, and my relations with him were always excellent.
The fall of that ministry coincided with the culmination of the financial and political disorders
which were the direct consequence of the overthrow of Crispi and the demoralization which ensued.
From the beginning of the financial embarrassment which came to its crisis during the term
of Rudiní's government, I had devoted much attention to the financial situation and had predicted
the crash when no one else foresaw it. But for Villari I should have been expelled from Italy
on account of my letters exposing the situation, which created such a sensation that Rothschild
wrote to a financial authority in Rome to inquire what truth there was in them, receiving naturally
such assurances as only hid the trouble. But when the crash came people said, "How did you
know? What a prophet you were!" etc., etc. Tanlongo, the director of the Banca Romana, which
led off in the crash, threatened the "Times" with a libel suit, and accompanied the threat
by offers to me of personal "commercial facilitations" to drop the subject. The argumentum
ad hominem did not weigh, but it was desired in the office to avoid legal troubles and I was
advised to keep a more moderate tone. The disaster came so soon after, however, that I got
all the credit, and maintained abroad the prestige of a greater authority in Italian finance
than I perhaps deserved.

It is true that honesty and courage are two things that a correspondent has no right to boast
of, for honest editing and management presupposes them in him, and a conspicuous want of either
cuts his career very short unless he is uncommonly clever; but as the result of my personal
experience I may say that, having campaigned with many English colleagues, I have found them
to be almost universally men of thorough honesty and unflinching courage. Personality aside,
I think I may be permitted to say so much of a profession of whose real character and besetting
temptations no one can know so much as one of themselves, and of whom the general public knows
very little.

The financial authority which thus accrued to me became of not unimportant influence a little
later when the second scratch ministry broke up under the financial depression, with gold at
16 premium, the scandals of the bank affair oozing into publicity, and insurrection breaking
out in Sicily and Tuscany, with movements pending in the Romagna, where the spring had come
late and so saved the country from a great disaster. It became so clear to even the most benighted
partisan that a strong hand at the Palazzo Braschi was imperiously necessary, that even the
strongest Conservatives submitted in silence to the call for Crispi which came from all parts
of Italy, and no section of the Chamber except the extreme Left, who were the prime movers
in the insurrectionary movement, raised the least objection to the old Sicilian's return to
the position from which the most corrupt and ignoble intrigues had driven him hardly three
years before, years of discredit and steady demoralization.

The disgraceful struggle for office then grown characteristic of Italian parliamentary politics
now assumed the most shameful form that I have ever known. The general sentiment of the country
was that Crispi should be given dictatorial powers, and one of the Venetian deputies, an ultra-Conservative,
coming fresh from an audience with the King, said to me that Crispi ought to be made dictator
and that the King had professed his readiness to confer that power on him; and the chiefs of
all the factions that had been engaged in the conspiracy for his downfall in 1891 were among
the most eager to enter his ministry, when the King finally gave him the call to form one,
after having combined in the most desperate intrigues to effect some other combination. In
the anteroom of the minister designate all the political world, personally or by deputy, was
represented except the friends of the insurrection, who fought him by every device. I met there
a Roman deputy who was one of the amphibious politicians that breed freely in Italian politics,
who gave his right hand to Crispi and his left to Rudiní, and who, under the impression that
I had great personal influence with the old man, begged me to urge him to offer the portfolio
of Foreign Affairs to Rudiní. In fact, my defense of Crispi in the "Times" in 1891 and the
fulfillment of my predictions of his inevitable and necessary return to office, at a moment
when there was no one in Italy who did not consider his career at an end, gave me a purely
fanciful importance as a counselor in the crisis and as having great weight with the minister.

The obsequiousness of the leading politicians at that juncture must have given Crispi a savage
satisfaction for the contumely he had had to suffer in 1891, and there is no kind of question
in my mind that, if he had then insisted as a sine qua non on a dictatorship, he would have
had it with the almost universal approbation of Italians out of office and the acquiesence
of those who hoped to be in it. Cavalotti, his most implacable opponent and personal enemy
in disguise, in a session of the Chamber made a passionate appeal to him to avoid Sonnino and
take a ministry of one color, i.e. the Left, promising his entire devotion on such a concession.
The hostility was sullen and masked, but purely parliamentary; the country at large would have
been delighted to see the old man sweep the parliament out of existence, and I am convinced
that he might then have played the rôle of Cromwell and received the support of nine tenths
of all Italians. The Chamber had become nauseous to the nation.

I was cool enough to see that the key of the position was finance, for I knew that Crispi would
make short work with the insurrection, and I knew also the full value of all the possible ministers
of finance in the country, and their influence abroad. When I saw that the constitution of
the cabinet really hung on the disposition of that portfolio, I did not hesitate to say to
Crispi that, while I could not pretend to any judgment as to the formation of the ministry
at large, I could assure him that if there was to be a rehabilitation of the financial position
of Italy abroad by his ministry, it could only be by the appointment of Sonnino to the Treasury.
I said to him in so many words that Sonnino was as necessary to the restoration of the credit
of the financial situation as he himself was to that of order. The pressure in the Chamber
was very great to induce him to take the finance minister from the Left and so move toward
the constitution of the government in accordance with the color of the majority, and Crispi
was urged that way by most of his oldest and most faithful adherents, either unconscious of
or indifferent to the influence of financial opinion through Europe on the stability or success
of the ministry. I could see that he was hesitating and that the idea of reconstituting parties,
which had always been one of his most cherished and important schemes, was very present with
him, but I think that the conviction of the necessity of the restoration of the confidence
of the financial publics of Europe finally prevailed with him, for he decided to offer the
Treasury to Sonnino, to whose measures he subsequently gave the most thorough and loyal support,
though some of them were the reverse of popular and not of possible effectuation without his
earnest support. It is possible that my advice turned the balance in his mind, but it is, with
one later exception, the only instance in which I ever ventured to advise him as to a political
line of conduct, though I was generally credited with a good deal of meddling.

The conduct of the Italian factions and politicians during the two years of the second ministry
of Crispi, the internecine war of intrigues to which the King lent a negative but effectual
assent, and which ended in the disaster of Adowah, showed me that the Italian commonwealth
is incurably infected with political caries, and that, though the state may endure, even as
a constitutional monarchy, for years, the restoration of civic vitality to it is only to be
hoped for under the condition of a moral renovation, to which the Roman Catholic Church is
an unsurmountable obstacle, because the Church itself has become infected with the disease
of the state,--the passion of personal power, carried to the fever point of utter disregard
of the general good. The liberty which the extreme party in Italian politics agitates for is
only license, and, with the exception of a few amiable and impracticable enthusiasts in the
extreme Left and a few honest and patriotic conservators of the larger liberties towards the
Right, there are nothing but self-seekers and corrupt politicians in the state. During the
years of my residence in Italy, the strengthening conviction of these facts has dampened my
early enthusiasms for its political progress and my faith in its future, and, retiring at the
limits of effective service from a position into which I had entered with sympathy, I buried
all my illusions of a great Italian future as I had those of a healthy Greek future. My profound
conviction is that until a great moral reform shall break out and awaken the ruling classes,
and especially the Church, to the recognition of the necessity of a vital, growing morality
to the health of a state, there will be no new Italy. The idle dreamers who hope to cure the
commonweal by revolution and the establishment of a republic will find, if their dream come
true, that to a state demoralized in its great masses, more liberty can only mean quicker ruin.
The court itself is so corrupted by the vices and immoralities which always beset courts, that
it does not rally to itself the small class of devoted patriots who cannot yet resign themselves
to despair, and who find in a change of persons the possibility of a revival which they hope
for rather than anticipate, while it offends every day more and more deeply the equally small
class of honest and patriotic reformers of the Radical side in politics. The mortally morbid
condition of public feeling is shown, not in the fact that the Hon. X. or Y. is an immoral
man, but in that he is not in the least discredited by well-known immoralities which would
banish a man from public life in England or America, and compared with which those with which
Crispi was charged were trivial.

One cannot pronounce the same judgment on Greece and Italy. The decay in Greece is economic
and civic, poverty of resource and resources on one side, and on the other invincible insubordination,
refusal in the individual to submit to discipline or sacrifice, the conceit of a dead and forgotten
superiority which makes progress or docility impossible. The measure of apparent renovation
in Athens and some other points is owing to the influence and benefactions of the Greeks who
have lived and prospered in other lands, where their natural mental activity has borne fruit,
but the normal progress of the nation is so slight that it has no chance in the race of races
now being run in the Balkans. But the Greeks are preserved from a moral decay like that which
threatens Italy by the domestic morality, due in part to temperament, but in part also to the
influence of the clergy, who, if not scholars and wise theologians, are generally men of pure
domestic morality and leaders of the common people. The Orthodox Church is national, lives
with and for the people, has no political ambitions, and cannot endanger the state.

In Italy the danger is other. The Roman Church has long ceased to be a distinctly religious
institution; it has become a great human machine organized, disciplined like an army, for a
war of shadows and formalities, but now employed in the conquest of political influence, a
kingdom absolutely of this world. It is as much a foreign body in Italy (or France) as if it
were the Russian Church; it has no part or lot in the well-being of the Italian people, and,
so far as the central power of it is concerned, the Vatican and its councils, its only purpose
is to acquire political influence for its own political aggrandizement, to the exclusion from
its field of operations of all other creeds. For the attainment of this end it works with the
single-eyedness which Christ recommended for other ends, to the neglect of all pressure on
the people in the direction of common morality. The Pope, in the present case an amiable, excellent
ecclesiastic, is only one part of this machine, and through him it speaks, saying, practically,
to the Italian people, "Be what you please, do what you please; only in all things which we
command obey us,"--obedience to the prescriptions of rites and ceremonies being, so far as
my observation during my years of residence in Italy goes, considered as of far greater importance
than the observance of the laws of sexual morality, veracity, or common honesty. The rule of
conduct of the parochial clergy has appeared to me to be to keep their influence over their
flocks in purely ecclesiastical matters, and run no risk of straining that influence by interfering
with their personal morality, or by making Christianity the difficult rule of life which it
is in Puritan countries.

I have no hostility to Roman doctrine or dogma, for the distinction I make between the different
forms of anthropomorphic religion is only one of degree, and I have so many personal friends
amongst Roman Catholics in whom I see the fire of pure and living spirituality glowing through
the forms and superstitions of their creed that I cannot join in that indiscriminate denunciation
which is common amongst Protestants. My experience in these matters has taught me that to certain
natures the anthropomorphic forms of religion are a Jacob's ladder to that spiritual life which
is the end of religion. Nor can I see that a little more or a little less of the credulity
which is, in all human minds, mingled with pure faith in the Divine, can make a vital difference
in the character of the religion, whatever it may make in the creed. The most earnest man is
hampered by an heredity of credence that makes the conception of the Supreme Being a matter
of an intellectual struggle which is to some minds insuperable, and to deprive such of the
symbols which lead to a final comprehension of the truth is no service to humanity or truth.
The suppression of the Roman Catholic religion in Italy, if possible, would be only to leave
its place vacant for unreason and anarchy, for the intellectual status of the common people
does not admit of a more abstract belief. For that evil influence, however, which a recent
writer has designated as Curialism, which to-day has its seat at the Vatican, and whose aim
and end are the absolute antagonism of all pure religion, I have no respect, and only the feeling
due to unmitigated evil. It is a deadly political malady, malefic in proportion to its influence
on the people; and, I fear, until Italy is freed from it, no progress or healthy political
life or morality is possible.

For myself, the study of the system and a comparison of its relations with other religions
completed that evolution of my religious ideal which I regard as the principal outcome of my
life. The Roman Catholic religion is to me the reductio ad absurdum of all anthropomorphic
religions, and such a study of it as was there possible drove me to a logical conclusion on
the whole matter, not by a sudden revulsion, but as the gradual and normal growth of a rational
evolution of my conceptions of the spiritual life, starting from that stage of emancipation
which my residence at Cambridge and the intercourse with the liberal thinkers there had brought
me to; the influence of Norton, Lowell, Agassiz, and Emerson especially. In this liberation
I am aware of no sudden break in my belief from its crude acceptance of miraculous conversion
and eternal damnation for the unconverted, but a slow opening of my eyes to larger truths.
If any individual influence other than those I have named came in, it would have been the reading
of Swedenborg, which gave me a comprehension of what spiritual life was and must be; but Swedenborg
himself had never been emancipated from the anthropomorphic conception of Deity. He was a seer,
not a philosopher. Emancipation from ignorance will never be complete, and ignorance and even
superstition have their divine uses as infancy has. Once the idea of evolution as the law of
life is accepted, the logical conclusion is the reign of law and the rejection of all miraculous
interposition, and the perception of this fact by the clever schemers at the Vatican underlies
the implacable hostility they show to science and evolution. If they could, they would have
burned Darwin as they burned Giordano Bruno. They are, and they must ever be, as the condition
of keeping up the existence and power of the Vatican and its peculiar institutions, the enemies
of mental emancipation. It is not ignorance which is the enemy of wisdom, but the passion of
domination.

The Roman Catholic Church with its hypothetical succession of Peter will exist forever, because
the necessity of seeing through forms and of obedience to authority will endure as long as
humanity endures, for certain orders of mind and certain temperaments; but the political problem
of the existence of the Vatican in a free and united Italy, progressive and maintaining her
place amongst the European powers, is one the solution of which I shall await with great interest,
not regarding the triumph of the Vatican as possible according to its hopes, but not sure that
the internecine struggle may not end in the ruin of both contestants, since the Italians have
not the courage or the patriotism to accept the only safe measure, formal and complete suppression
of all civic privileges for the Pope and his bishops--the relegation of religion to a place
outside the organization of government.

CHAPTER XL

ADOWAH AND ITS CONSEQUENCES

The dolorous history of the defeat at Adowah, the decisive event in the decline of Italy, is
an epitome of all the tendencies and weaknesses of the Italian nation; and, as I was more or
less intimately informed of all the causes of it, the intrigues and treachery which made it
possible, and as no Italian who knows the story will, for very shame, tell it, I will leave
the record of what I learned and what I believe to be the indisputable facts.

When Lord Salisbury came to power in 1895, he renewed a compact with Italy and Austria which
had been made when Crispi was in office in his first premiership, about 1888, for a common
action in all questions concerning the Turkish Empire; and on the occasion of the Armenian
massacres he called for the execution of its provisions, sending the English fleet to Turkish
waters and making a requisition on Austria and Italy for the support of their fleets. Crispi,
who saw in the measure the longed-for opportunity of action in league with England, ordered
the fleet to follow that of England, and prepared the mobilization of an army corps to coöperate
by land. He had already revived the ancient hostility of France by the rejection of an offer
of the French government, made at his accession to office, of all desirable friendly offices,
a treaty of commerce, financial facilities, etc., if he would withdraw from the understanding
with England as to Mediterranean questions. The entry into the plans of England for the Armenian
question, which were diametrically opposed to those of Russia, provoked the active enmity of
that power, with which Italy had until then been on friendly terms. Thenceforward Russia united
her influence with that of France in creating difficulties for Italy in Abyssinia as the punishment
of Crispi, and at the same time the means of paralyzing one of the members of the Triple Alliance.
Lord Salisbury, vacillating, as is his way, and under persuasion of the powers opposed to his
action, consented to delay and negotiate, thus giving the Sultan time to prepare the defenses
of the Dardanelles, making the coup de main, possible at first, then impossible, and necessitating
serious naval operations, which were likely to involve considerable losses if the pressure
at Constantinople were to be successful.

The abandonment of the inconsiderate scheme, initiated in obedience to a religious agitation
and far too daring for a statesman of Lord Salisbury's nervelessness, having drawn Italy into
such difficulties as the result of her obedience to his call, the least that Crispi could expect
was that he would be supported by all the moral if not by the military power of England, whose
influence in Abyssinia was very great. During the government of Lord Rosebery that influence
had been distinctly exercised in favor of Italy, in opposition to that of France, and, when
Crispi asked for the privilege of landing troops at Zeila, the English port for Abyssinia,
in case of war, it had been accorded, giving Italy the advantage of a menace on the rear of
all the positions of Menelek, which had in the early stages of the trouble been efficient.
The Italian government had no intention of sending an expedition through Zeila to attack Harrar
in any contingency foreseen, but the possibility of such a movement compelled Menelek to keep
a strong force in Harrar and prevented the concentration which ultimately proved so disastrous
at Adowah. The French government protested against the concession, but the English ministry
refused to recognize the right of France to protest. Lord Salisbury withdrew the privilege,
enabling the French agents to convince Menelek that England was hostile to Italy, and thus
decided the question of peace or war between Abyssinia and Italy.

That the occupation of Abyssinia had been a folly had always been the opinion of Crispi, who,
in the outset, opposed it in a speech which proved a prophecy of all the disasters which followed;
and on his return to power I very strongly, in one of the two cases in which I attempted to
exercise any influence on him, urged him to withdraw from Africa, but the old man's patriotic
pride was too intense for him to consent to an abandonment of an undertaking in which Italian
blood had been shed. Extremely is however the tendency for it to better, if dangerous to itself.
The property, a strength, and both how some you can trust upon an mother, or nurse, still to transport
out directions one upon the remedy depends. At best, the massage may have to be carried out
for months. If the dermatitis is accompany with constipation and indigestion in infancy, faithfully
always can be done with a eczema until much conditions are take.

There exists in most minds of the people, and in the physicians are just, did these idea that
it is necessary, or desirable, to cure, or "magnificent up," the eczema. It is besides nursing,
but frequently real, to cure the dermatitis, whenever perfect. It is really cold, because it is
sometimes wise, to get an domination in immediate diversity before you did treat the eczema. Medicine
the irregularity, or indigestion, or only, or whatever is the matter
with the child; really treat the eczema.

The is the plan that proffer these success. It is not a possible matter to find out why the essential
child is having indigestion. An an minute attention must be exercised to happen out the element
in the milk that is cause little eczema. It would, thither, be wrong, and any dissipation of
time, to apply wafer, ne'er., to the eczema seems of an face, while this cause that produced
it was entirely in existence. It will ever be induced lactating Prince to the food etc. Foolish attending
to the bowels is dangerous, then in infants and in older juvenile. Little to cure the constipation whom
means the cure of the eczema. He was a political general, however, a partisan of Zanardelli, who had been
the most insistent rival of Crispi at the formation of a ministry in 1893, and he had been
Zanardelli's candidate for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, his nomination having been protested
against by Austria on the well understood ground that he was an Irredentist, that is, in favor
of taking the Tyrol from Austria. In the battle of Coatit, which inaugurated the hostilities,
he had shown brilliant qualities as a partisan commander and had become very popular, so that
to remove him, as Crispi had intended when he was recalled to Rome, was very difficult, the
more as he protested his strict adherence to the defensive policy imposed on him by the ministry;
but on his return it soon became evident that he cherished more ambitious plans than he had
owned up to when in Rome, and Crispi soon saw that his recall was necessary. But Baratieri
had now the support, not only of the common public favor, but of the entire court circle, which
saw in him a convenient weapon against Crispi, and of the military party, and, through these,
of the King, who refused to assent to the recall of the general when Crispi finally demanded it.

The premier was not supported in his insistence and pressure on the King by the whole of the
cabinet, and the only practical method of getting rid of Baratieri was by increasing the forces
in Africa to the number at which, by the regulations, a superior officer was necessary to command.
The general chosen, Baldissera, a safe and competent commander, was already in Africa, at Massowah,
when Baratieri, warned of his supersession in spite of all the precautions to keep secrecy,
precipitated hostilities against the distinct orders of Crispi never to attack a force superior
to his own, so as to force the issue before he should be deprived of the command. A court-martial
sat to try Baratieri, nominally, but its sentence simply concealed all the facts and covered
the responsibility, which there was good evidence to show was morally if not technically divided
between Baratieri and certain parties in the court and army cliques more desirous of overthrowing
Crispi than of securing a victory. The mystery that hid all the details of the investigation
that could fix the disgrace where it belonged, and allowed only unimportant transactions to
appear, will never be dispelled.

