After that of course there was not much left to say; but all the same, Ulf looked more carefully
into the strength of his longship that week than even he or Sigurd ever had before a voyage.
Not an arrow went on board which he did not test with his own fingers, and send to the smithy
if not perfect,--and who was a better judge of ironwork than he? While the men he chose for
the crew were the sturdiest, toughest, craftiest set of rascals that ever sailed from a vik.
Every one of them was fit to command a longship if the captain was laid low. And every man
of them, because of it, knew how to obey on the instant, or if need be, to win a battle without
orders. And in a safe hiding-place was a large bundle. It contained a present for the King.

Merrily flashed the sunlight on the oarblades. Edith Fairhair was brimming with questions,
too excited to sit still. It was her first voyage, and Ulf the Silent talked more than he ever
did before in his life, explaining things that he knew about and forgetting to answer when
he didn't know. Once, on the voyage, they had a touch of war, and Ulf looked at Edith and felt
a sudden thrill which he had never felt before when a fight was coming. If he lost now, he
lost what a kingdom could not replace.

On came the enemy's craft with the swift confidence of many a capture. But while yet beyond
bowshot it was suddenly checked and hung in the wind, even backing water a little. That stern,
silent figure standing in the opposing prow seemed familiar to the wary captain. That glittering
mail, the dragon-crest on the helmet, that too had he seen --somewhere. Ha! Now he remembered.
Once before he had thanked his stars that his had not been the ship which the man in mail had
boarded. There was no other ship to take the brunt this time, and his cheek turned a little pale.

The vessels drifted a little nearer, and the stranger hailed,

"Art thou not Ulf, of Sigurd's Vik?"

"Yea!"

A flutter swept through the stranger-craft, and a pause. Its men flashed at each other startled
looks.

"Is it war?" the captain asked again, hoping his men would not note the little tremble in his
voice.

"War have I seen," was the curt reply, and there was a twang as a bow was strung. Then Edith
said a swift word to which Ulf listened, frowning, yet called to the undecided captain.

"Ulf, of Sigurd's Vik, has seen too much war to be afraid to offer peace to any man. Choose thou!"

The stranger laughed a laugh of relief, but said,

"Peace it shall be, since that is a new thing to both of us. I am Thorfin the Viking."

Ulf's face darkened.

"Had I known thy name before, the choice would not have been left to thee. It is peace for
this time; but Thorfin the Viking will do well to sail south instead of north, for when we
meet next Thorfin's ship quickly will need another captain,"--which was a very long and unamiable
speech for Ulf the Silent to make. And he allowed his ship to drift until the sail of the other
had dropped below the horizon, still speeding southward like a scared white rabbit, that is
happy in a close shave from the snap of a wolf. Then Ulf swung his yard to the wind again,
saying only,

"Truly, Edith, one sea-thief owes thee thanks to-night," and went his way.

Knut the Great sat on his throne-seat in his raftered hall. Here and there little groups of
his chief men chatted and exchanged news, but Knut heard them not. The dark carving of his
seat showed richly through the furs that draped it, and white gleams of walrus ivory lighted
the darkness, but Knut saw them not. An official was giving an account of what had occurred
of late in the village under his command, but for once Knut listened with only half an ear
as he sat there with his chin in his hand, for from the shore below there came the soft wash
of the ever restless sea which the King so dearly loved. The swash brought swiftly to mind
the days of his youth when his life was all before him, and his kingdom was the length of his
deck. Those were happy days, indeed, when the right ruling of a great land was not among his
duties! For power has its own troubles, and the King would not be remembered so long had his
reign not been a good as well as a great one.

The hum of voices came up from the shore, and all the well-known sounds of the harbour-life,
the splash of a rope falling in the water, the thud of an oar flung down, the grating of a
keel drawn up on the shingly beach. And suddenly he was conscious that it had ceased, all save
the more distinctly sounding water. Surprised, he glanced quickly through the open door, and
saw that all the shore-folk had stopped their work to gaze at a longship flying swiftly onward;
a stranger, evidently, for a man was on the mast watching out for hidden rocks and pointing
out the channel to the steersman. The long row of shields hung outboard on each side told that
it was something more than a peaceful trader, and Knut watched with interest, motioning for
silence.

With a rush the craft shot half her length on shore and her crew poured out in a well-trained
throng, which without delay swung into column and headed for the hall. Knut the Great eyed
them with admiration. Never had he seen a sturdier set of men; and something in the lithe young
leader at their head, all glittering with shining mail, reminded him of his own lost youth,
of which but the moment before he had been dreaming. A young woman walked by the captain's
side, fair-haired, fair-faced, with a gleam of gold in her collar and bracelets of gold on
her round arm. Then at a sign, the men halted, and the pair came on alone.

With his curiosity aroused, and in the free manner of the times, the King left his seat and
came to the entrance to meet them. The light was better out of doors.

Neither bow nor salute did the young man make until he was at the very portal; then he saw
before him a slight, gray man, rather plain of dress, who looked rather than asked his business.

"Is this the hall of Knut the Great?"

"Yea."

"I have come to have speech with him."

"And thou?" The keen eyes supplied the rest of the question.

"Ulf the Silent, of Sigurd's Vik," was the brief reply.

The questioner started slightly as though the name was not unknown to him, and glanced quickly
at the men beyond, but they had not stirred. Then after a moment, he said,

"Come!" and wheeling, led the way back to the audience hall. Ulf saw his guide stride forward
to an empty throne-seat into which he sank, and with his chin in his hand said, quietly,

"I am Knut the King."

For a breathing-space Ulf halted, startled. This the King! Then he recovered his wits again.

"Sigurd's Vik is well governed; but men say England and Denmark are better ruled. This have
I come to see, and with me Sigurd's daughter, now my wife." The King smiled, not ill-pleased
at what he heard.

"Ulf, of Sigurd's Vik, is not unknown to me by hearsay, and right glad am I to meet him, and
to talk of the ways of ruling men. Yet if what I hear be true, he need not cross vik-mouth
to find just ruling."

And he had seats brought for them, and food and drink, as was the custom, sending, too, for
his sister to receive Edith Fairhair as her guest. But Ulf, for once, appeared ill at ease
to her who knew his ways so well.

Then the King began to talk of government in words so wise, so thoughtful, that he forgot his
own thoughts and listened heartily, planning to make good use of what he learned, in after
days. The other men in the hall had gathered to meet the stranger, and they, too, said their
word now and then, for those were the days when every man who had a good word to say in council
was in no way backward about saying it. But some were not so courteous to the stranger as they
might have been, and said one, when Ulf modestly raised a doubt in a case which he did not
fully understand,

"Know thou, stranger, King Knut is more than king of men. The sea itself obeys him."

Had Ulf been older he would have passed it by unnoticed. As it was he merely asked Knut, with
lifted eyebrow,

"Are these captains thine advisers?"

The King flushed hotly and turned to his flatterers.

"Sayest thou I am the lord of the sea--that it will obey my word?"

A dozen voices shouted "Yea!" in as many different ways. The King looked at them steadily for
a moment, then with a half-smile waved his hand to his throne from which he had arisen, and said,

"Carry me that to the shore, and do thou attend."

It was low tide, but the young flood had begun to come in, and when the throne was placed well
out toward the water, Knut seated himself and said,

"Wait! now shall we see the value of advisers."

Presently the incoming tide drew near, and the King arose, stretched out his hand to the waters
and said,

"Back! I, Knut the Great, command thee. Back!"

Never a word replied the sea, but still the unceasing tide crept steadily on.

"Back, I say! Knut, Master of the Sea, commands it!"

Lip-lap, lip-lap came a gentle wave with a white fringe, circling in eddies landward, and splashed
ever so gently under the royal chair; and if the King had not lifted them with haste the royal
feet would have been wet. Then said the King, grimly smiling,

"It is well my men have proved their worth as captains, and need not be judged by this."

And his councillors were ashamed, and could not look him in the face for many days. But to
Ulf he made presents of value.

Then said Ulf, with a rueful laugh,

"King Knut, I had deemed I had at least one thing worth offering as a gift to a King," and
with the word he laid before him the white bear's hide, tanned with the head on, and in the
cleft of it still stood the keen-edged battle-axe.

Knut's eye twinkled, reading now the reason for the young man's discomposure, for in his hall
lay stretched a wealth of just such trophies, and he asked how it was won.

"Singlehanded," said Ulf.

"A shaft to each leg, then spear to the throat and axe to the brain."

Then said the King, significantly,

"If I have eleven other bearskins, am I not eleven times the better able to know its worth?
It is a gift for a King!" and Ulf was content.

And History tells that in after days, when King Knut wanted to make an especially valuable
gift to the Minster of Crowland, he could think of nothing richer than twelve great white bearskins,
one for each of the twelve Apostles. I like to believe that one of them had a deep cleft in
the back of the head, where Ulf's axe sank in. But I think Knut knew the value of a good steel
weapon too well to give that away, for we read in another book that such an axe once owned
by him was handed down till Harold of England owned it, and with it he cut to pieces a suit
of armour hung on a post, by way of showing his strength to the King whose guest or prisoner
he was--for at the time he was a little of both. And every stroke slashed that armour in such
great holes that I think the axe that did it must indeed have been of Star, or nickel steel,
and of itself a gift for a King!

For many a day Ulf dwelt with the King, and even sailed to Denmark with him for a space.

At last the time came for Knut to return to England, the larger country, where he lived for
most of his reign, and Ulf went back with him and Edith with Ulf, of course. A mighty fleet
sailed also,--never had either of them seen so many ships before,--and when the roll of the
oars in the rowlocks came slipping over the glassy sea it rumbled like muttered thunder. Stirred
by the sound, here and there the wilder blades among the crews remembered old war-days, and
struck up the Northmen's warsong, the laughing, murder-singing "Yuch-hey-saa-saa- saa," that
had carried terror with it to the lands beyond the water; and the trading vessels within hearing
swung hastily southward and rowed away for dear life, fully believing that war had come again.

SPARK IX.

HOW THE STAR HELPED TO WIN A THRONE.

And war did come in time. Four kings rose and fell in Ulf's own lifetime. England was one great
battlefield for many a year after Knut had died. Harold, Harthaknut, Eadward, and yet another
Harold, one after another had their little say, and their own troubles,--the troubles of kings
who know no better cure for them than war.

But Ulf was not of these. Too wise to linger long in that unfriendly air after the death of
his friend the great King, he kept the seas as a free trader, and far and wide roamed the longship
which he commanded. The gruff old captain who guarded the port of Wisby [Footnote: Wisby, A
famous old walled town on the island of Gottland.] against all sea-thieves, cracked his face
into what was meant for a happy smile when his watchers told him that the inrushing craft looked
surely enough like Ulf's. The laughter-loving fisherwomen of Marwyk [Footnote: Marwyk. An old
seaport on the coast of Flanders.] sprang up and threw silvery herring at each other from pure
glee when their farseeing eyes spied out the flag of his vessel and read its strange device.
That flag was like no other's, for it was as black as a crow's wing, save in the centre, where
gleamed in the snow-white embroidery of Edith Fairhair a snarling white bear's head.

Once, indeed, Ulf got lost. For three full weeks he never saw a star. For three full weeks,
day after day, his vessel fled before the gale onward, ever onward, over the gray, desolate,
wildly tossing water, until they had need to spread their sail to catch the rain, for watercasks
were empty; and one dried herring per day for food was all that Ulf could spare his crew out
of their scanty stock. Then the sun broke out warm and cheery and green isles began to show
themselves.

"This is a new land," quoth Ulf. "I wonder much what races dwell in it," and kept all the brighter
lookout.

Still, food must be had, and he was ready to pay for it with wealth or blows,--whichever might
be most convenient to the occasion. As it happened, the choice was not left to him, for two
galleys darted out from a narrow strait, each flaunting a strange flag, blood-red, with a star
and a single crescent pictured on. it. Dark, swarthy faces rose above the bulwarks, and wild
warcries in an unknown tongue.

"Allah! Allahu!"

Then came the hiss of javelins.

Cheerily laughed Ulf and all his men, amazed and amused at the odd white turbans and the white
teeth showing so plainly against the dark of the threatening faces; and the Barbary pirates
in turn were thunderstruck when, instead of cries of fright, out growled again that laughing
war-song, the laughter of death which never failed to send a shiver through the hearer, be
he never so brave, if he knew he had to face the singers. There were men on those galleys who
had heard the "Yuch-hey-saa-saa-saa" before and knew well what was to follow. But flight was
now too late. And thus the Iron Star first warred against the turbaned warriors of the Crescent.

Ulf found much spoil in those two vessels,--golden cups, beautiful silken robes, and jewel-hilted
weapons,--after the slightly difficult task of taking them was over; and plenty of provisions
also, with which warily he turned square round on his heel and sailed back again for twice
three weeks until he was in familiar waters once more, well content with what he had. As to
the pirates, they deserved all they got, and Ulf and his men had a merry time with them while
the fight lasted, which was as long as one was left alive. For those were wild times!

