The right kind of country beauty is very convincing to the jaded Londoner; but to convince,
one must be convinced, and that is exactly what Pauline is not. She never thinks whether she
is beautiful or not, and I am sure it often lies with the woman herself, how beautiful people
think her, except in the rare cases of real beauty, when there can be but one opinion. But
in the case of ordinary beauty, the woman is appraised at her own value. Then there is the
art of putting on clothes, of which Pauline is absolutely ignorant. There is even a studied
untidiness which passes under the name of picturesque. All of this is a closed book to Pauline,
and, after all, she is a delightful creature; but the trouble to me was that, at the time she
came up to shop with me, she didn't wear good boots, and to do that I hold is part, or should
be part, of a woman's creed. She gets her boots from the village shoemaker because his wife
died. Her eyes filled with tears at the mere thought of the man, and she told me she thought
it right to encourage local talent. In the boots I saw evidences of locality,--bumps, for instance,--but
not of talent. Pauline was very indignant and said she had no bumps on her feet. "But you see
my position?" I did, but I persuaded her to have some good boots made in London. This she consented
to do, rather unwillingly and on the distinct understanding that in the country she should
continue to encourage local talent. "On wet days," I ventured.

And at flower-shows, she added.

I have seen Pauline in the country, against a background of golden beech trees and brown bracken,
look even beautiful; but in London she lacks something, possibly the right background. She
has glorious hair, but her maid can't do it. Pauline admits it, but she says she can't send
a nice woman away on that account; besides, she suffers from rheumatism, and Pauline's particular
part of the country suits her better than any other.

"Couldn't she learn?" I suggested.

"No, she can't," said Pauline. "She had lessons once, and she came back and did my hair like
treacle, all over my head,--no idea, absolutely. I should never look like you, whatever I did."

"My dear Pauline," I said, "what nonsense!"

"It's not nonsense. Father was saying only the other day that you are a beautiful creature,
only no one seems to see it."

"Dear Uncle Jim," I said; "how delightful, and how like him!"

"But it's true you are beautiful; only the part about the people not seeing it isn't true:
that's father's way of putting it. You are beautiful!"

"My dear child!"

"Why do you say 'dear child' to me? People would think you were years and years older than
I am. Why do you always talk as if life were over? Have you a secret sorrow?"

If Pauline, warm-hearted, loving Pauline had really thought I had, she would have been the
last person to ask such a question.

"Do I look it?" I asked.

"No-o. Only when people seem to spend the whole of their life in doing things for other people,
it makes one suspect that they are saying to themselves, 'As we can't be happy ourselves, we
can see that other people are.'"

"What a philosopher you are, Pauline! If you go on that supposition, you must have a terrible
sorrow somewhere hidden behind that happy face of yours."

Pauline is not meant to live in London. She thanks people in a crowd for letting her pass.
If she is pushed off the pavement, she is only sorry that the person can be so rude as to do
it. She never gets into a 'bus or takes any vehicular advantage over a widow, and she feels
choky if she sees any one very old. "Do you know why?" she asked. "Because they are, so near
Heaven, and sometimes I think you see the reflection of it in their faces."

"Like Cousin Penelope," I said.

We arrived at the shop where the coat and skirt were to be had, and Pauline, having admired
the horse and thanked the cabman, and the commissionaire, who held his arm over a perfectly
dry wheel, followed me into the shop. She admired everything as she went through the different
departments, and apologized to the shop walkers for not being able to buy everything; but she
lived in the country, and although the things were lovely, they would be no use to her--dogs
on her lap most of the day, and so on.

Everyone looked at Pauline; and old ladies, to whom she always appeals very much, put their
heads on one side, as old ladies do when they admire anything very much, anything which reminds
them of their own youth, and smiled. Old ladies have this privilege, that when they arrive
at a certain age, they are allowed to think they were beautiful in their youth, and to tell
you so. It is a recognized thing, and one of the recompenses of old age. We all know that every
one had a beautiful grandmother--one at least; and if a portrait of one grandmother belies
the fact, then there is the other one to fall back upon, of whom, unfortunately, no portrait
exists, and she was abs--so--lute--lee lovely!

The coat and skirt were found and eagerly compared with the illustration, and Pauline turned
to me and said with a triumphant ringing her voice: "It wasn't an exaggeration. I knew it wouldn't
be. Mother has dealt here for years."

Then we went upstairs to try it on. In a few minutes Pauline had discovered that the fitter
was supporting her deceased sister's husband and six children, the eldest of whom wasn't quite
right and the youngest had rickets. She was so distressed that she didn't want the back of
her coat altered, the woman already had so much to bear. But I prevailed upon her to have the
alteration made regardless of the woman's domestic anxieties. I felt sure it would make no
difference. But I cannot help feeling that Pauline's visit to that shop did make a difference
to that poor woman, if only for a few moments in her life. And I think those children's lives
were made happier too; but it is difficult to get Pauline to talk of these things.

Then we went to the shoemaker, and Pauline told him all about the widower bootmaker, and of
her scruples about having boots made by any one else. The bootmaker evidently thought that
a foot like Pauline's was worthy of a good boot and Pauline said there were occasions on which
one had to sink one's own feelings. She was scandalized at London prices, and told the man
so. "But of course it means higher pay for the men, so it's all right."

On our way home I said to Pauline that I couldn't understand why she was so economical--ready-made
coats and skirts, and afraid of paying a fair price for good boots! Was her allowance smaller
than it used to be? She got pink and didn't answer. I determined she should, and at last she did.

"Well, you see, I pay a woman to come and wash the shoemaker's children on Saturday evenings."

I smiled. "That can't cost much, unless she provides the soap."

Pauline got pinker still. "Well, I pay for the village nurse, and a few other little things.
Then there's a little baby," she dropped her voice, "who has no mother--she died--and who never
had a father, and every one doesn't care for those sort of babies.--You do like my coat and
skirt, don't you?"

Chapter IX

I think, by the way, that it was on that very day that Mr. Dudley met Pauline. She, of course,
would know the exact date and hour, but I am almost sure of it, for although it may mean a
day of less ecstatic joy to me than it does to her, it brought much peace and subsequent happiness
into my life, and therefore is writ in red letters in my book of days. For the visits of Dick
Dudley had latterly become more frequent than I cared for, and much as I liked him, I began
to wish that I had remained in his estimation under the shadow of Diana's charming personality,
for so he had tolerated me until the fateful day on which I had partaken of Betty's gray wad.
That act of professional valor ignited a spark of feeling for me in his breast, which, fostered
by Hugh's constant suggestion, sprang into something warmer than I could have wished, and was
fanned into flame on the day on which he found me paying a visit of consolation to the small
fat Thomas. Now, strangely enough, that small fat person was nephew to Dick Dudley. How small
the world is! And the mother turned out to have been exactly the sort of mother I had thought
she must be. One of the nicest things about Dick Dudley was the way he spoke of that sister,
and we had long talks about her, until I awoke to the fact that that sister and I must have
been twins, so alike were we; then I began to be afraid. For I couldn't tell him that there
was some one far away, for whom I was waiting from day to day. One can hardly barricade one's
self behind such an announcement. The classification of women is incomplete. There are those
who are engaged and who care; there are those who are engaged and who don't care; there are
those who don't care and, who are not engaged; then there are those who care and who are not
engaged, so cannot say. It is not their fault if, sometimes, they wound a passing lover. Mercifully
there are Pauline's in this world to relieve one of unsought affections, and I liked Dick Dudley
well enough, and not too much to be glad when I saw him give ever such a small start when he
walked into my drawing-room and saw Pauline sitting there, clothed in cool green linen and
looking her very best. I had done her glorious hair on the top--that, I think is the expression--and
she sat in the window so that her hair shone like burnished gold, and she was saying in a voice
fraught with emotion, "If I had my way, there should be no sorrow or suffering," which of all
sentiments was the most likely to appeal to Dick Dudley, for he is one of those who look upon
sorrow and suffering as bad management on the part of some one, since the world is really such
an awfully jolly place, if only people didn't make a muddle of their lives. He says it is all
very well to talk of high ideals, you can't live up to them, the best you can do is to live
up to the highest practical ideal. But then his standard of ideal is very much higher since
he saw Pauline for the first time. Pauline blushed when a strange man walked into the room,
which was all for the best, and made the day a happier one for me. Not that Dick Dudley was
not very loyal to me. He tried, I could see it was an effort not to talk too much to Pauline,
although the topic of bearing-reins, under certain circumstances, was a very engrossing one,
and spaniels a never-ending one. Pauline expressed her surprise that Mr. Dudley should ask
her if she lived in London.

"I thought every one could see I lived in the country," she said. "Did you mean it for a compliment?"
she asked kindly.

Dick Dudley was a little overcome by this, and he said he would hardly have dared to pay her
a compliment, since every one knew that girls who lived in the country away from bearing-reins
and other hardening and worldly influences, and in close proximity to spaniels, black, liver
and white, cocker, clumber, and otherwise, were so vastly superior to their London sisters.
Here Dick got a little deep and Pauline kindly rescued him.

"A compliment to my clothes, I meant," she said; "because all my friends in London tell me
my clothes are so countrified."

