For the first time during the excitement my thoughts turned to my faithful horse, but he was
nowhere to be seen. The horror of the situation began to dawn upon me and I realized at once
that I was lost on that desolate plain--one hundred miles from any camp that I knew of and
apparently alone. I cried out, "My God, what can be done!" The thought was enough to drive
one crazy. Can I ever forget it? I think not; nor could anyone. Even to see or talk to an Indian
would have been a comfort. Driven to agonizing despair I ran for my field glass and scanned
the rolling ground in every direction. Buffalo, deer, antelope, coyote, and a small party of
horsemen were visible, but the latter too far away to make out if they were United States Cavalrymen
or Indians. Looking again, without my glass, I discovered my horse standing on a high knoll
not more than a half mile away with head and tail erect; the breath from his dilated nostrils
ascending heavenward in the cold October air and presenting a picture for an artist. I called
loudly, "Billie, Billie," and with outstretched hand walked slowly toward him, but he looked
not in my direction. All of a sudden he made a quick bound and was off. My heart seemed to
stop beating. A minute seemed an hour; but I kept walking after him and he finally stopped,
turned around and faced me. That look can never be forgotten. With ears thrown back, he came
slowly toward me. Again, I called "Billie, Billie," and held out both hands and with a whinner
he came on a gallop, trembling in every muscle, seemingly as frightened as myself. I patted
his neck, straightened out his rich heavy mane, rubbed his face and nose and kissed him. He
licked my cheek and hand in appreciation of my welcome; moisture gathered in his large eyes
and I cried with joy--like a child that I was--and then we both felt better. I coiled up the
lariat and placed my right arm over his perfectly formed neck and slowly walked to our little
camp. I rubbed him down until he was perfectly dry; then curried, brushed and rubbed until
I could almost see myself in his coat of silky hair. Then I made him lay down and did the same
thing myself, using his withers and mane for a pillow. When I awoke the moon shown full in
our faces. I patted his neck and soon those large eyes were looking affectionately into mine.
I sprang to my feet and he did the same. After brushing off the side on which he had laid,
I placed the saddle blanket, buckled taut the saddle, gathered up my small camp kit and fastened
it to the rear of the saddle, coiled the lariat and hung it on the pommel of the saddle, fastened
on my spurs--from which he had never felt even the slightest touch--threw my field glass over
my left shoulder, buckled on my cartridge belt and revolvers, swung my canteen and Henry Carbine
over my right shoulder, and with a leap, landed astride the saddle, and was off with the wind
in search of the trail two full miles away.

THE INDIANS CAPTURE A FRIEND

Early on the morning of the third day, I stopped at a stage station, where I met the assistant
wagon boss who was with the bull train during my first trip across the plains. He was a genuine
Missouri Bushwacker and a desperate fellow. Like all others of his class he wore his hair long,
making it a much coveted prize for the Indians. After the days visit and relating our experience
of western life, he told me that he was on his way to the Black Hills. I reluctantly volunteered
the information to him that I did not think he would ever reach there on the old skate he was
riding, and that he should not venture on the trail until after dark, but he knew it all and
started at sundown. I was sure the fellow would never reach the Hills, nor was I mistaken,
for in less than an hour the Salt Lake Coach rolled up to the door of the station, and the
driver asked if a horseman had put up at the place, and being informed that there had, told
us the Indians had captured him and tied him to one of their own ponies and was rapidly going
north, leaving his old nag to be picked up by any one who would care for it. Not a day passed
that the unwelcome savages were not to be seen, and we were chased many times, but the faithful
animal reached Denver in safety.

The Union Pacific railroad had then reached Julesburg and I conceived the hazardous idea of
reaching that point by navigating the Platte River--a distance of three hundred miles--so I
at once ordered a flat bottomed boat built of material in the rough.

A CUNNING SCHEMER

I next went in quest of my aged chum, the ex-pig dealer, who, when found, revealed by a twinkle
in his eye another dare-devil scheme, which he was quite capable of concocting when alone in
his warehouse den. He exclaimed, with much feeling and a forced tear, that he was right down
glad to see me safely back and gave me little rest until I had related my experiences in the
hills. He then unfolded his diabolical scheme, whereby both of us could lay a foundation for
a fortune. I was in need of the latter, without any question, but not by this method.

Cheyenne had just been surveyed, mapped and laid out, and the proposition was for him to furnish
a man, two mule teams, wagons, tents, provisions and all other necessities; and this man and
myself were to go there and squat or take possession of two sections of Government land, consisting
of one hundred and sixty acres each, located just outside the city limits. The offer was promptly
rejected, and it destroyed the last particle of friendship that had existed between us as far
as I was concerned. I had just been through that part of the country and had narrowly escaped
death many times, and for us to carry out this scheme, I knew would be impossible, for the
tricky redskins would be certain to capture us. I cannot recollect the exact reply that I made
him, but am positive I requested him to go to Hades by the shortest possible route. We parted
in anger after three long years of friendship. The old major's love for the almighty dollar
was the cause. I never did have a very strong desire to furnish material to the cruel savages
for one of their home scalp dances, and besides my mind was made up to leave Colorado, which I did.

