"I shall soon follow you to Paris.  I am happier than you at seeing the King take you there
with him.  You are right in looking upon it as the beginning of a friendship which must be
turned to profit.  I have reflected deeply on the secret causes of your ambition, and I think
I have divined your heart.  Yes; that feeling of love for France, which made it beat in your
earliest youth, must have gained greater strength. You would be near the King in order to serve
your country, in order to put in action those golden dreams of your early years.  The thought
is a vast one, and worthy of you!  I admire you; I bow before you.  To approach the monarch
with the chivalrous devotion of our fathers, with a heart full of candor, and prepared for
any sacrifice; to receive the confidences of his soul; to pour into his those of his subjects;
to soften the, sorrows of the King by telling him the confidence his people have in him; to
cure the wounds of the people by laying them open to its master, and by the intervention of
your favor thus to reestablish that intercourse of love between the father and his children
which for eighteen years has been interrupted by a man whose heart is marble; for this noble
enterprise, to expose yourself to all the horrors of his vengeance and, what is even worse,
to brave all the perfidious calumnies which pursue the favorite to the very steps of the throne--this
dream was worthy of you.

"Pursue it, my friend," De Thou continued.  "Never become discouraged. Speak loudly to the
King of the merit and misfortunes of his most illustrious friends who are trampled on.  Tell
him fearlessly that his old nobility have never conspired against him; and that from the young
Montmorency to the amiable Comte de Soissons, all have opposed the minister, and never the
monarch.  Tell him that the old families of France were born with his race; that in striking
them he affects the whole nation; and that, should he destroy them, his own race will suffer,
that it will stand alone exposed to the blast of time and events, as an old oak trembling and
exposed to the wind of the plain, when the forest which surrounded and supported it has been
destroyed.  Yes!"  cried De Thou, growing animated, "this aim is a fine and noble one.  Go
on in your course with a resolute step; expel even that secret shame, that shyness, which a
noble soul experiences before it can resolve upon flattering-- upon paying what the world calls
its court.  Alas, kings are accustomed to these continual expressions of false admiration for
them!  Look upon them as a new language which must be learned--a language hitherto foreign
to your lips, but which, believe me, may be nobly spoken, and which may express high and generous
thoughts."

During this warm discourse of his friend, Cinq-Mars could not refrain from a sudden blush;
and he turned his head on his pillow toward the tent, so that his face might not be seen. 
De Thou stopped:

"What is the matter, Henri?  You do not answer.  Am I deceived?"

Cinq-Mars gave a deep sigh and remained silent.

"Is not your heart affected by these ideas which I thought would have transported it?"

The wounded man looked more calmly at his friend and said:

