The mustard seed was very small, lying there in the ground. It had to wait. Even when it came
up and looked about, it seemed there was hardly a chance for so fragile a stem, but it waited,
and while it waited, it grew. After a while it became a full-grown bush, and the birds of the
air came and lodged in it. There is a legend about trees longing for birds to come to their
branches, some trees growing lonesome or jealous because other trees seemed to be more inviting
to the birds. That is much like human nature. We naturally like to be sought out. "Wait" is
the watchword; keep sweet and hustle, and soon enough our branches will reach high and spread.

The woman put the yeast in the dough, then set it by to wait. What a mistake it would have
been to try to cook it at once; the bread would have been almost as heavy as lead, and totally
unfit to eat. But while she waited, the leaven worked--and so while you patiently wait, doing
God's will as best you know how, God works, and what a mighty Worker is He! Then, as you grow,
He gives you a part to do alongside with Him; He and you work together.

Let's not be in too big a hurry for the Eats, fellows; let's work and wait--and then how good
the Reward will taste.

That is the style of the kingdom of heaven.

     Read Matthew 13:24-43.

XXXVI

ACTION

Say, fellows, there come times when a fellow must act, and act promptly, or lose his chance
to clinch a good thing. In the preceding talk our key-word was "Wait." To-day it is a shorter,
quicker, sharper word, and one that a boy likes better. A-c-t--that's it. There is movement,--something
doing. The word is all pep, touch and go! We like it, don't we?

When he was twelve years old, Thomas Edison was a newsbutch on a road running out of Detroit.
As the train left Detroit one morning, Edison, as usual, went back into the first-class coach
with the morning papers. Near the front sat two young fellows, acting very gay. They hailed
everybody who passed in the aisle, and they hallooed out the window at folks and objects as
the train rolled along. They were on a lark, and wanted everybody to know it.

"Morning papers!" called out Edison.

"How much are they worth?" sang out one of the jolly fellows.

"Five cents," said Edison.

"Oh, how much for the whole bunch?" retorted the young man.

"Why," said the newsbutch looking a little surprised, "there are forty--they're worth two dollars."

"We'll take 'em," said the noisy passenger, and whipping out two crisp one-dollar bills, took
the papers from Edison and handed them to his companion, who threw the entire bunch out of
the train window. Evidently these young men had plenty of money to spend, and were inclined
to make a sensation and attract attention.

Edison quickly took in the situation. "Phew," said he to himself, "here is a chance for real
business," and he hurried forward to the "baggage" where his supply trunk was stored. He quickly
returned with an armful of magazines, some rather out of date.

"How much are they worth?" promptly inquired the young spendthrifts.

"Twenty-five cents apiece, or $5.50 for the pile."

"Take 'em," said the spokesman, and paying the money he and his companion dumped the magazines
out of the window.

Back to the "baggage" went Edison, and returned with his basket of fruit, candy, chewing-gum,
and other things. Again the transaction, and goods, basket, and all went through the window.

Then Edison rushed once more to the "baggage." He piled everything he could lay any claim to
into his supply box, some things old, some new, some unsalable, dragged the box through the
train, crossing its open platforms between coaches with some difficulty, and at last drew up
nearly breathless before these reckless buyers. Quickly he pulled off his coat, hat, collar,
tie, and shoes, and piled them on top of the box and announced: "Everything I've got is for
sale!" The price was paid, and the young men directed their servant, who was near by, to drag
the box to the back of the coach and throw it out, which order was obeyed.

The newsbutch with a chuckle went forward to tell his friend the baggage man about his "streak
of luck," while he fondly fingered a fat little roll of bills down deep in his trousers. His
entire stock in trade had been transmuted into the coin of the realm, his profits were secure,
his losses were nil. He had found a good thing, he had recognized an opportunity, and he had
let no grass grow under his feet while he laid hold upon it and reaped the golden harvest.

Fellows, there is something like that, only far better, offering to you this moment. It is
the treasure--not of perishable value like gold, but of eternal value. Jesus Christ is offering
to take you into business with Him and let you deal with values so much finer and higher than
anything else that the surprise and joy of them will last through all eternity.

     Read Matthew 13:44-52.

XXXVII

A CORONATION

Say, fellows: This is David's big day. Let's enjoy it with him. Let's get in the crowd gathering
at Hebron and see a coronation.

And what a crowd! About three hundred and forty-four thousand mighty men of war--all the tribes
of Israel were represented there that day--and they came over the hills of Judah from north
and east and south to put a crown on David which would make him king of all Israel.

For many years David had waited for this day. At the death of Saul, two tribes, Judah and Benjamin,
had proclaimed him king, but ten of the tribes had crowned Saul's son, Ishbosheth, as his father's
successor. So David waited seven and a half years longer, and then the whole kingdom came under
his rule.

Many times during those long years when a fugitive from Saul, hiding in caves or seeking the
protection of heathen kings, it must have seemed as if God had forgotten him, and once David
did almost break down, but he rallied, took a fresh hold, and "carried on."

Now, fellows, it must be a fine sight to see a man receive a royal crown, but it is a finer
sight when there are fine qualities in a man deserving honour and reward. No head deserves
a crown unless there are crowning virtues in the life. What were some of the qualities in David
which merited a crowning on that great day?

One was his faith. Faith in God; faith in his fellow-man; faith in himself. It takes faith
even to start anywhere, and it takes more faith to arrive. David's faith was of the coronation
variety.

Another was his patience. David waited. He did not try to force matters. Whenever God was ready--that
was David's time. David's patience was crowned.

Another was David's continual kindness to a foe. He was even kind to Saul's memory and rewarded
the men who reverently took Saul's body from the wall of Bethshan and gave it decent burial.
David's chivalry was crowned.

But, fellows, the fine thing to know is that the same princely qualities can exist to-day in
each one of us; not for crowns on our heads, but for a great satisfaction in our hearts. Faith,
patience, and a knightly spirit are just as possible possessions now as they were in David's
day. They are spoken of in slightly different terms by Paul in the thirteenth chapter of First
Corinthians,--Faith, hope, and love. You can have them all. They are priceless, but you can
have them if you ask for them.

Be a prince of the Royal House!

     Read 2 Samuel 2:1-7.

XXXVIII

DO IT RIGHT

Say, fellows, down-town the other day a man tried to save a boy who was caught near some wires,
and got killed himself for his trouble. Hard luck, wasn't it? Yet he had nobody to blame for
it but himself. He took hold of a wire which carried the electric current for the street cars.
He broke a law of nature and got punished. There was a way he could have gotten the wire away
from the boy. A Boy Scout did it later with a pole.

Just the difference between touching with the hand or touching with a stick--very little, perhaps,
but the law of electricity made the difference important, so that the one meant death--the
other, life!

Now here comes along King David trying twice to move the ark of the Lord up to Jerusalem, where
it ought to be, the first attempt proving fatal because he was foolish enough to try to handle
it as the Philistines did, instead of doing it strictly by the rules God had made--rules which
David should have known very well, because they were in his Bible (Num. 4:4-6, 15; also 1 Chron.
15:11-15). The rules required that the ark should be carried on poles resting on the shoulders
of certain men set apart for that service, but David permitted them to put it on an ox cart,
attended by Ahio and Uzzah, two well-meaning fellows, no doubt, but not according to the rules.
One of the oxen stumbled, the ark jostled, and Uzzah put his hand on it to steady it. Presto!
Uzzah a dead man on the side of the road!

They called David from where he was marching at the front of the procession, and when he got
back there and saw what had happened, it gave him an awful shock, for he knew he was just as
guilty as Uzzah--and perhaps more so. He ordered the men to take the ark into Obed-edom's house
beside the road and be careful to pick it up by the poles. Then he went on back to Jerusalem
without it. He got out the Book of Numbers and went over the rules about the ark very carefully.
For three months he studied the matter. Then he went after the ark again--this time in God's
way. He called for the priests and the men appointed to carry the ark; he organized a band
and a great choir of singers, and went to Obed-edom's house. There they picked up the ark by
the poles and started. Still David was scared, and when they had moved forward only ten yards
("six paces") he made them stop, while a sacrifice of oxen and rams was made to the Lord.

David was overjoyed when he saw everything going well, and he began to dance and to sing. All
the way to Jerusalem he danced and shouted for joy.

David thought a lot of the ark, because it meant the presence of God, and that meant in this
case the blessing of God. As he grew older and wiser he had greater reverence for God's house
and all the holy things which were tokens of God's presence. In one of the psalms he wrote:

    The Lord is in His holy temple;
    Let all the earth keep silence before Him.

The least a boy can do for God's honour is to keep quiet in church.

The best a boy can do for himself is to put God at the very center of his every interest--the
fear of God, love for God, and reverence for all His holy law.

Take hold as God says, and everything will go fine!

     Read 2 Samuel 6:1-11.

XXXIX

KEEPING FAITH

Say, fellows, it takes a real sport to live up to a promise when conditions shift on him. If
there is a streak of yellow in his system he will find some way to kick out every time. Life
is a big game, and it takes a real man to play it on the square--if only square and no more.

But, fellows, what can you say about that one man in a thousand who plays the game of "Remember
and Pay" as finely as David did?

Young gentlemen, please meet Mephibosheth, this man of the twisted feet and outlandish name.
Kings did not usually choose such to live in their courts and sit at the royal table. Only
the fine-looking men and beautiful women were invited to become members of the king's household.

But, worse still, this Mephibosheth, being a grandson of Saul, was at any time a possible pretender
to the throne. It was the custom of kings to get rid of such. Not so David. When he finds out
about the poor cripple over there across the mountains east of the Jordan, he sends for him
and invites him to come and live at the palace in Jerusalem.

Now you will find David's promise to Jonathan in 1 Samuel 20:14-17; and his promise to Saul
in 1 Samuel 24:20-22. David had only agreed that when he became king he would not kill Saul's
descendants. He could have fulfilled his promise by simply allowing Mephibosheth to live as
he was doing, visiting around, kind of sneaky like, without any pocket change, among the few
friends who would take him in.

What do you suppose Mephibosheth thought when the messengers showed up one morning at Machir's
house and called for him to appear before the king? Scared to death, don't you think? No doubt
he thought it was all over for him now, except the "slow driving and music on the hill." Why,
when he came before the king he bowed clear down to the marble floor, doing obeisance, and
called himself a dead dog. Then, what happened? He had to pinch himself to see whether he was
dreaming. He never got over the surprise of it as long as he lived. King David helped him up
on his crutches and told him to cheer up, for from that time forward he should sit at his table,
and be as one of the king's own sons.

More than that: with all the thoughtfulness and fine courtesy of a Christian gentleman, David
turned over to this cripple his grandfather Saul's estate, together with Saul's servant, old
Ziba, with his fifteen sons and twenty slaves, to till the land. That was to provide Mephibosheth
with an income.

Now, what do you know about that, fellows? It was playing the game of kindness to win, wasn't
it? Win what? Why, to win the satisfaction which can only come to one who keeps his promise--and
then some, for good measure!

Yes, it takes even more than a good sport to do that. It takes one who is willing to be Christlike.

     Read 2 Samuel, Chapter 9.

XL

THE GAME THAT CAME NEAR BLOWING UP IN THE SEVENTH INNING

Say, fellows, have you heard the sorrowful news about David? Too bad! Just as we were beginning
to think David, with his fine manly ways, his love for God's honour, for God's ark, his bravery,
his fairness and kindness--just as we were thinking he would make a clean record to the end
of the game, now here comes an awful flunk!

It's kind of like when the score is 2 to 0, in favor of the home team, and we are feeling good--then
all of a sudden in the seventh inning the boys go all to pieces, and let the other side put
four men across the plate.

Strange how David fumbled and played badly when he had had such a long winning streak, but
so it must ever be when you get the idea you're "it" and can't slip. David let down, and away
down. Fellows, would you believe it if it were not in the Bible--he broke all the commandments
from the sixth to the tenth, inclusive. God says whatsoever a man sows, that shall he also
reap. David sowed the wind and reaped the whirlwind. Absalom, his son, committed all the sins
his father did, and added some, for he broke the fifth commandment also, and broke his father's
heart.

David was very fond of Absalom, and would have done anything for him, but that boy didn't appreciate
it. He was a good-looking chap; the girls admired him, and a lot of foolish fellows hung around
him, flattered him, and made him vain.

Absalom had the big-head. If there is a sorry sight upon earth it is a fellow that is stuck
on himself. Absalom was conceited and proud. He wanted even to be king in place of his father,
and was unwilling to wait for what would have come in due time. Many a fellow spills the beans
by being unwilling to wait. He ruins his best chance by trying to pick the fruit before it
is ripe. If there is ever a time when patience is golden it is in the time of youth. A boy
wants to stop studying and training, and take a short-cut to fame and success. It is usually
a bad mistake.

Absalom's blunder was fatal. He tried to land on his father's throne by treachery; he landed
in a tree, caught by his head. He thought to win a crown; he got three hot darts between the
ribs from Joab. He planned to have a pile of wealth quickly gained, but by the end of the week
his handsome form was buried deep beneath a pile of rocks. Ever afterward when an Israelite
passed that monument of dishonour, he picked up a stone and cast it upon the heap to show his
contempt for the memory of a disloyal son.

Oh, fellows, the tragic day of a boy's life is when he decides to throw over a good father.
No matter what prize is offered. It may be to get more liberty; it may be to escape restraint
or rebuke, but it is a bad trade at best. Ordinarily a boy's best man friend is his father.
If this does not seem to be the case, usually it is because the son won't allow it. Many a
father longs, like David, for his boy's confidence and companionship. Many a boy could have
in his father the finest chum imaginable, if he would give his father a chance to show him
what a real chum is.

Fellows, let's give Dad some of that fine Scout loyalty and watch him warm up to it. He may
have some chum qualities you never thought of.

     Read 2 Samuel 11:1-27, and
           2 Samuel 15:7-18.

XLI

THE BITTEN APPLE

Say, fellows, I was visiting a boy friend one afternoon and while we played his mother called
him. Wondering if there was anything wrong, I waited and listened while he answered the summons.
I could hear her speaking to him as she said: "Bob, here are two apples--one for you and one
for Wade."

Then I waited, and as Bob did not return at once I stepped to the corner of the house to see
what kept him. That fellow was sitting on the step digging his teeth into one of the apples.
I thought: "Well, that's polite, starting on his own before he gives the other to his guest!"
It rather disgusted me. Directly Bob came round the corner, kind of sheepish like, and what
do you suppose he did? Well, fellows, he offered me the bitten apple!

That was enough for me. Take it? I guess not. I turned on my heel without a word and went straight
home. I don't think anything ever inspired more contempt in me as a boy than that piece of
petty thievery.

Of course, fellows, that was not a Christian way to treat an erring playmate, and I fear I
had very little charity in my heart; I am just telling you frankly how that act of Bob's impressed
me. And it was only in the beginning of Bob's eventful career. Twenty-five years later, Bob's
name was in the daily papers all over the country. He had gotten away with a big sum of money
that belonged to others who had trusted him, and now he is a poor hunted fugitive from his
native land, if indeed he is alive.

The boy who begins taking just a bite of somebody else's apple is likely going to pull off
something big some day!

Suppose Bob's mother had handed him seven apples and asked him to save one of them for her,
and he had made away with the whole lot, don't you think that would have been pretty mean and
low down?

Listen, fellows, something mighty close to that--only a lot worse--is happening with boys to-day
who look upon themselves as the souls of honour. I am just wondering if they fully realize
it. It is not in their relationship to mother, but to God their heavenly Father and creator.
He has placed in your hands and in mine, each week, seven full twenty-four hour days. He says,
"Six for you and one for Me."

He trusts you to keep that One Day, the Sabbath, for Him. How do we discharge that trust? Are
we worthy of it? God does not lock us up in a dark room on Sunday and handcuff us and chain
our feet to the floor. No, He trusts us; He prefers to trust us. He wants us to honour His
laws about the Sabbath, of our own free will. That is the kind of service God likes--willing
service.

And, fellows, you cannot abuse that trust and escape the penalty. No man, no boy, can continually
break the Sabbath day and get away with it. Sooner or later he will come to sorrow because of it.

On the other hand, God distinctly promises blessings upon those who honour His Sabbath (Isa.
58:13, 14).

Fellows, God is the best "payer" that ever promised. He always pays more than He promises.
His day concerns our happiness, our health, our prosperity, our usefulness, our success. All
these vital issues are involved.

And I am going to tell you just one more fine secret. It is a nugget of pure gold. The best
way to avoid violating God's Sabbath is to get busy honouring it with service--service to Him.
Go regularly to Sunday-school and to church service--and go on time. You will find something
to do there.

Spend your Sabbath afternoon in the study of God's Word, read some good book that will feed
your soul; spend some time in some work of mercy. Take a bit of something good to eat to the
poor fellow in jail and tell him you do it because you love Jesus Christ and are trying to
serve Him, and want him to love Christ and serve Him, too. You will find it a short day, but,
oh, such a fine and happy one, and you will go to bed refreshed. Next morning you will wake
up whistling and you will turn off work at the store or at school like a forty-horse tractor.

     Read Exodus 20:8-11, and
           Isaiah 58:10-14.

XLII

MY KINGDOM

Say, fellows, I heard a boy quoting Shakespeare the other day. He was coming out of a movie
with two other boys, just as I was passing. They had probably been in there an hour or more,
for they seemed glad to get out in the fresh air. But the boy's exclamation was what caught
my attention; it was this:

"My kingdom for a cigarette!"

To be sure, Shakespeare makes Richard III say, "My kingdom for a horse!"--the boy changed a
word; and it was just a careless remark expressing his craving for a smoke, but it raised a
question in my mind: Did that young fellow realize he said a very important and true thing?
When Richard III cried out, "My kingdom for a horse!" he was dead in earnest; he was fighting
for his very life against overwhelming odds, and he was really willing to surrender his kingdom
for some swift means of getting away from that desperate scene of carnage. But if the cigarette
boy had been faced pointblank with the proposition I do not believe he would have agreed to
give up his kingdom for the "coffin tack."

Yes, this boy had a kingdom; every boy has a kingdom.

As I paused on the corner, the three boys entered a store and quickly came out, each with a
cigarette in his mouth, taking deep inhalations and expelling smoke through lips and nostrils
as they sauntered down the street.

I was still thinking of the boy's kingdom. Through a wonderful plan God, the Creator, puts
each boy over an empire. Perhaps you may think it is a small one, but to him it is greater
and means more for his success and happiness than any empire on earth. God places a scepter
in each boy's hand and says, "Govern!--Rule over your kingdom!" And it is a very wonderful
kingdom, with four splendid provinces called Physical, Mental, Social, and Spiritual. Each
of these provinces is capable of producing great values and making rich and powerful almost
beyond belief.

God also places at each boy's hand the resources for fighting off the enemies of his kingdom.
This defensive armament, which is also for building work, in part consists of common sense,
information (or education), will-power, determination, aspiration, and physical strength--and
to make each of these effective, He gives His Word and sends His Holy Spirit to guide and sustain.
If a fellow just realized it and would use what God puts in his hand he would have a kingdom
he wouldn't exchange for Solomon's.

But, fellows, what a pity when a boy will exchange his kingdom for a cigarette; in comes the
cigarette; down goes the physical province--the cigarette destroys the delicate tissues of
the mucous membrane; down goes the mental province--the cigarette makes the mind dull and listless
and takes away its snap and vigour; down goes the social province--the cigarette makes its
victim shun the best and seek the lower grades of social life and activity; down goes the spiritual
province, the most precious of all--for spirit chokes and dies in the atmosphere of the cigarette
and its inevitable accompaniments.

This, of course, is just one of the enemies of a boy's kingdom; I have spoken of it particularly
because it is the one which seems to catch boys off their guard most easily. There are many
others. Intemperance of any kind is an enemy to the best interests of your empire. Send out
a proclamation to yourself, to-day, and put all provinces on notice that you are on your throne
and God is your Counsellor--and that henceforth none of the kingdom's enemies will be admitted
across the border.

     Read 1 Corinthians 10:9-15.

XLIII

A TOOL BOX

Say, fellows, on one of my boyhood birthdays I received a tool box. It was a peach of a tool
box, too; not one of the dime store variety, with a saw the same length as the gimlet, but
with a set of tools that no amateur carpenter would despise. I was greatly delighted with that
tool box, and immediately began planning the things I would make. Mother wanted a shelf on
the back porch and a coop for an old hen just off with her chicks; my dog needed a dog house,
and I even aspired to a rowboat for the pond. I could hardly wait for material before getting
to work. Fingering over those tools, my eye fell upon a motto graven on the inside of the lid
of the box. It read:

BE SURE YOU ARE RIGHT--THEN GO AHEAD

Very good advice, I thought; but perhaps intended for fellows who knew less about tools than
I did. I guessed I was not so apt to make mistakes, knowing so well what I wanted to do, and
being so determined to do it. Several dollars' worth of lumber and nails were laid in, and
I entered at once upon the work of "general manufacturing." Fritz was wagging his tail and
barking as if he had scented the dog house in my plans, so I decided to attend to that first.
It would have been better to start with the shelf, as that was simpler; but I slashed away
on the dog house, and soon had some stuff sawed up for the framework. It didn't match. I sawed
some more, and that didn't match. I began to think perhaps Fritz didn't specially need a dog
house anyhow; so I tried to work the dog house materials into the chicken coop, but that wouldn't
go, either. Then I sawed some more for the chicken coop. It was not as simple a proposition
as I had thought it would be, besides there was a confusion of design somehow in my mind. The
day wound up with nothing accomplished, except a lot of good material butchered to the point
of kindling wood only. Next morning I tackled something I "knew I could do,"--the shelf. But
that proved to be a surprisingly obstinate job; the supports I sawed at different angles, and
when trying to force the joints together by nailing, I split them both. The shelf was a failure.

Then I saw a light.

I was rather dejectedly pondering the situation as I stood by the tool box, and my eye fell
again on that motto! In not one instance had I made sure I was right before I went ahead. My
zeal had been without knowledge. I had mistaken "Purpose" and "Determination," as the high
prerequisites, instead of "Being Sure I was Right."

