As to worthy Hartman Schedel, God rest his soul, one wonders whether he has yet learned that
Columbus discovered America. He had not yet heard of it when he finished his book, though Columbus
had returned to Spain three months before. O most lame and impotent conclusion! But the fifteenth
century, though it had an infinite childlike curiosity, had no nose for news. Nuremberg nodded
peacefully on while a new world loomed up beyond the seas, and studied Michael Wolgemut's picture
of Noah building the ark while Columbus was fitting out the Santa Maria for a second voyage.
Such is mankind, blind and deaf to the greatest things. We know not the great hour when it
strikes. We are indeed most enthralled by the echoing chimes of the romantic past when the
future sounds its faint far-off reveille upon our unheeding ears. The multitude understands
noon and night; only the wise man understands the morning.

And now finally, what of William Caxton? The father of English printing had been for many years
an English merchant residing in Bruges when his increasing attention to literature led him
to acquire the new art of printing. He had already translated from the French the Histories
of Troy, and was preparing to undertake other editorial labors when he became associated with
Colard Mansion, a Bruges printer. From Mansion he learned the art and presumably purchased
his first press and type. Six books bearing Caxton's imprint were published at Bruges between
1474 and 1476, though it is possible that the actual printing was done by Mansion rather than
by Caxton himself. In 1476 Caxton set up the first printing shop in England, in a house within
the precincts of Westminster Abbey. Between that date and his death in 1491 he printed ninety-three
separate works, some of these in several editions. His industry and scholarly zeal as a publisher
somewhat exceeded his technical skill as a printer. Caxton's books, which are now much rarer
than those of many continental printers of the same period, are not so finely and beautifully
done as the best of theirs. But the peculiar interest of his work lies in the striking variety
of the works he chose for publication, the conscientious zeal with which he conceived and performed
his task, and the quiet humor of his prefaces and notes. Let me illustrate briefly these three
points. First, his variety. We have observed that Aldus and Froben published chiefly the Latin
and Greek classics, Koberger the Latin scriptures and theological works, and Stephanus a combination
of classics and theology. Caxton published few of the classics and very little theology. His
books consist largely of the works of the early English poets, Chaucer, Gower, and others,
of mediaeval romances derived from English, French, and Italian sources, and of chronicles
and histories. Among many other titles the following may serve to show how unusual and unconventional
were his selections:

          The History of Reynard the Fox.
          The History of Godfrey of Boloyne, or the Conquest of Jerusalem.
          The Fables of Aesop.
          The Book of Good Maners.
          The Faytes of Armes and of Chyvalrye.
          The Governayle of Helthe.
          The Arte and Crafte to Know Well to Dye.

This is indeed humanism, but humanism in a different sense from that of Aldus and Erasmus.
Human life from the cradle to the grave, human life in war and peace, human life in its gayer
and its graver lights and shadows, human life as embodied equally in famous writers and in
anonymous popular legends, was Caxton's field. He accounted nothing human alien to his mind
or to his great enterprise.

