But, as I have said, it is simply GENERIC in itself, and it becomes active and specific only
by a purely personal relation to the individual. But once more we must realize that nothing
can take place except according to Law, and therefore this specific relation is nothing arbitrary,
but arises out of the generic Law applied under specific conditions. And since what makes a
law generic is precisely the fact that it does not supply the specific conditions, it follows
that the conditions for the specializing of the Law must be provided by the individual. Then
it is that his recognition of the originating creative movement, as arising from combined Thought
and Feeling, becomes a practical working asset. He realizes that there is a Heart and Mind
of the Spirit reciprocal to his own heart and mind, that he is not dealing with a filmy abstraction,
nor yet with a mere mathematical sequence, but with something that is pulsating with a Life
as warm and vivid and full of interest as his own--nay, more so, for it is the Infinite of
all that he himself is. And his recognition goes even further than this, for since this specialization
can only take place through the individual himself, it logically follows that the Life, which
he thus specializes, become HIS OWN life. Quoad the individual it does not know itself apart
from him. But this self-recognition through the individual cannot in any way change the inherent
nature of the Creative Spirit, and therefore to the extent to which the individual perceives
its identification with himself, he places himself under its guidance, and so he becomes one
of those who are "led by the Spirit." Thus he begins to find the Alpha and Omega of the Divine
ideal reproduced in himself--in a very small degree at present, but containing the principle
of perpetual growth into an infinite expansion of which we can as yet form no conception.

St. John sums up the whole of this position in his memorable words:--"Beloved now are we the
Sons of God, and it doth not yet appear what we SHALL be; but we know that when He shall appear
(i.e., become clear to us) we shall be like Him; for (i.e., the reason of all this) we shall
see Him as He is" (I. John iii. 2). 

THE CREATIVE POWER OF THOUGHT.

One of the great axioms in the new order of ideas, of which I have spoken, is that our Thought
possesses creative power, and since the whole superstructure depends on this foundation, it
is well to examine it carefully. Now the starting point is to see that Thought, or purely mental
action, is the only possible source from which the existing creation could ever have come into
manifestation at all, and it is on this account that in the preceding addresses I have laid
stress on the origin of the cosmos. It is therefore not necessary to go over this ground again,
and we will start this morning's enquiry on the assumption that every manifestation is in essence
the expression of a Divine Thought. This being so, our own mind is the expression of a Divine
Thought. The Divine Thought has produced something which itself is capable of thinking; but
the question is whether its thinking has the same creative quality as that of the Parent Mind.

Now by the very hypothesis of the case the whole Creative Process consists in the continual
pressing so forward of the Universal Spirit for expression through the individual and particular,
and Spirit in its different modes is therefore the Life and Substance of the universe. Hence
it follows that if there is to be an expression of thinking power it can only be by expressing
the same thinking power which subsists latent in the Originating Spirit. If it were less than
this it would only be some sort of mechanism and would not be thinking power, so that to be
thinking power at all it must be identical in kind with that of the Originating Spirit. It
is for this reason that man is said to be created in the image and likeness of God; and if
we realize that it is impossible for him to be otherwise, we shall find a firm foundation from
which to draw many important deductions.

But if our thought possesses this creative power, why are we hampered by adverse conditions?
The answer is, because hitherto we have used our power invertedly. We have taken the starting
point of our thought from external facts and consequently created a repetition of facts of
a similar nature, and so long as we do this we must needs go on perpetuating the old circle
of limitation. And, owing to the sensitiveness of the subconscious mind to suggestion--(See
Edinburgh Lectures, chapter V.)--we are subject to a very powerful negative influence from
those who are unacquainted with affirmative principles, and thus race-beliefs and the thought-currents
of our more immediate environment tend to consolidate our own inverted thinking. It is therefore
not surprising that the creative power of our thought, thus used in a wrong direction, has
produced the limitations of which we complain. The remedy, then, is by reversing our method
of thinking, and instead of taking external facts as our starting point, taking the inherent
nature of mental power as our starting point. We have already gained two great steps in this
direction, first by seeing that the whole manifested cosmos could have had its origin nowhere
but in mental power, and secondly by realizing that our own mental power must be the same in
kind with that of the Originating Mind.

Now we can go a step further and see how this power in ourselves can be perpetuated and intensified.
By the nature of the creative process your mind is itself a thought of the Parent Mind; so,
as long as this thought of the Universal Mind subsists, you will subsist, for you are it. But
so long as you think this thought it continues to subsist, and necessarily remains present
in the Divine Mind, thus fulfilling the logical conditions required for the perpetuation of
the individual life. A poor analogy of the process may be found in a self-influencing dynamo
where the magnetism generates the current and the current intensifies the magnetism with the
result of producing a still stronger current until the limit of saturation is reached; only
in the substantive infinitude of the Universal Mind and the potential infinitude of the Individual
Mind there is no limit of saturation. Or we may compare the interaction of the two minds to
two mirrors, a great and a small one, opposite each other, with the word "Life" engraved on
the large one. Then, by the law of reflection, the word "Life" will also appear on the image
of the smaller mirror reflected in the greater. Of course these are only very imperfect analogies;
but if you car once grasp the idea of your own individuality as a thought in the Divine Mind
which is able to perpetuate itself by thinking of itself as the thought which it is, you have
got at the root of the whole matter, and by the same process you will not only perpetuate your
life but will also expand it.

When we realize this on the one hand, and on the other that all external conditions, including
the body, are produced by thought, we find ourselves standing between two infinites, the infinite
of Mind and the infinite of Substance--from both of which we can draw what we will, and mould
specific conditions out of the Universal Substance by the Creative Power which we draw in from
the Universal Mind. But we must recollect that this is not by the force of personal will upon
the substance, which is an error that will land us in all sorts of inversion, but by realizing
our mind as a channel through which the Universal Mind operates upon substances in a particular
way, according to the mode of thought which we are seeking to embody. If, then, our thought
is habitually concentrated upon principles rather than on particular things, realizing that
principles are nothing else than the Divine Mind in operation, we shall find that they will
necessarily germinate to produce their own expression in corresponding facts, thus verifying
the words of the Great Teacher, "Seek ye first the Kingdom of God and His righteousness and
all these things shall be added unto you."

But we must never lose sight of the reason for the creative power of our thought, that it is
because our mind is itself a thought of the Divine Mind, and that consequently our increase
in livingness and creative power must be in exact proportion to our perception of our relation
to the Parent Mind. In such considerations as these is to be found the philosophical basis
of the Bible doctrine of "Sonship," with its culmination in the conception of the Christ. These
are not mere fancies but the expression of strictly scientific principles, in their application
to the deepest problems of the individual life; and their basis is that each one's world, whether
in or out of the flesh, must necessarily be created by his own consciousness, and, in its turn,
his mode of consciousness will necessarily take its colour front his conception of his relation
to the Divine Mind-- to the exclusion of light and colour, if he realizes no Divine Mind, and
to their building up into forms of beauty in proportion as he realizes his identity of being
with that All-Originating Spirit which is Light, Love, and Beauty in itself. Thus the great
creative work of Thought in each of us is to make us consciously "sons and daughters of the
Almighty," realizing that by our divine origin we can never be really separated from the Parent
Mind which is continually seeking expression through us, and that any apparent separation is
due to our own misconception of the true nature of the inherent relation between the Universal
and the Individual. This is the lesson which the Great Teacher has so luminously out before
us in the parable of the Prodigal Son.

THE GREAT AFFIRMATIVE.

The Great Affirmative appears in two modes, the cosmic and the individual. In its essence it
is the same in both, but in each it works from a different standpoint. Hence, if we go back to the
nebulous ring, there presents itself the question,-- How came each planetoid-forming portion of nebulous
matter, when it gathered itself together and separated, to have a motion round the Sun differing
so much from the motions of its neighbours in eccentricity and inclination? And there presents itself
the further question,-- How, during the time when it was concentrating into a planetoid, did it manage
to jostle its way through all the differently-moving like masses of nebulous matter, and yet
to preserve its individuality? Answers to these questions are, it
seems to me, not even imaginable.***** Turn we now to the alternative
hypothesis. Cosmically it is that power of Spirit which sends forth
the whole creation as its expression of itself, and it is for this reason that I have drawn
attention in the preceding lectures to the idea of the creation ex nihilo of the whole visible
universe. As Eastern and Western Scriptures alike tell us it is the breathing-forth of Original
Spirit; and if you have followed what I have said regarding the reproduction of this Spirit
in the individual--that by the very nature of the creative process the human mind must be of
the same quality with the Divine Mind--then we find that a second mode of the Originating Spirit
becomes possible, namely that of operation through the individual mind. But whether acting
cosmically or personally it is always the same Spirit and therefore cannot lose its inherent
character which is-that of the Power which creates ex nihilo. It is the direct contradiction
of the maxim "ex nihilo nihil fit"--nothing can be made out of nothing; and it is the recognition
of the presence in ourselves of this power, which can make something out of nothing, that is
the key to our further progress. As the logical outcome of the cosmic creative process, the
evolutionary work reaches a point where the Originating Power creates an image of itself; and
thus affords a fresh point of departure from which it can work specifically, just as in the
cosmic process it works generically. From this new standpoint it does not in any way contradict
the laws of the cosmic order, but proceeds to specialize them, and thus to bring out results
through the individual which could not be otherwise attained.

Now the Spirit does this by the same method as  in the Original Creation, namely by creating
em nihilo; for otherwise it would be bound by the limitations necessarily inherent in the cosmic
form of things, and so no fresh creative starting point would have been attained. This is why
the Bible lays such stress on the principle of Monogenesis, or creation from a single power
instead of from a pair or syzegy; and it is on this account that we are told that this One-ness
of God is the foundation of all the commandments, and that the "Son of God" is declared to
be "monogenes" or one-begotten, for that is the correct translation of the Greek word. The
immense importance of this principle of creation from a single power will become apparent as
we realize more fully the results proceeding from the assumption of the opposite principle,
or the dualism of the creative power; but as the discussion of this great subject would require
a volume to itself, I must, at present, content myself with saying that this insistence of
the Bible upon the singleness of the Creative Power is based upon a knowledge which goes to
the very root of esoteric principles, and is therefore not to be set aside in favour of dualistic
systems, though superficially the latter may appear more consonant to reason.

If, then, it is possible to put the Great Affirmation into words it is that God is ONE and
that this ONE finds centre in ourselves; and if the full meaning of this statement is realized,
the logical result will be found to be a new creation both in and from ourselves. We shall
realize in ourselves the working of a new principle whose distinguishing feature is its simplicity.
It is ONE-ness and is not troubled about any second. Hence what it contemplates is not how
its action will be modified by that of some second principle, something which will compel it
to work in a particular manner and so limit it; but what it contemplates is its own Unity.
Then it perceives that its Unity consists in a greater and a lesser movement, just as the rotation
of the earth on its axis does not interfere with its rotation round the sun but are both motions
of the same unit, and are definitely related to each other. In like manner we find that the
Spirit is moving simultaneously in the macrocosm of the universe and in the microcosm of the
individual, and the two movements harmonize because they are that of the same Spirit, and the
latter is included in the former and pre-supposes it. The Great Affirmation, therefore, is
the perception that the "I AM" is ONE, always harmonious with itself, and including all things
in this harmony for the simple reason that there is no second creative power; and when the
individual realizes that this always-single power is the root of his own being, and therefore
has centre in himself and finds expression through him, he learns to trust its singleness and
the consequent harmony of its action in him with what it is doing AROUND him. Then he sees
that the affirmation "I and my Father are ONE" is a necessary deduction from a correct apprehension
of the fundamental principles of being; and then, on the principle that the less must be included
in the greater, he desires that harmonious unity of action be maintained by the adaptation
of his own particular movement to the larger movement of the Spirit working as the Creative
Principle through the great whole. In this way we become centres through which the creative
forces find specialization by the development of that personal factor on which the specific
application  of general laws must always depend. A specific sort of  individuality is formed,
capable of being the link between  the great Spiritual Power of the universal and the manifestation
of the relative in time and space because it consciously partakes of both; and because the
individual of this class recognizes the singleness of the Spirit as the starting  point of
all things, he endeavours to withdraw his mind from all arguments derived from external conditions,
whether past or present, and to fix it upon the forward movement of the Spirit which he knows
to be always identical both in the universe and in himself. He ceases the attempt to dictate
to the Spirit, because he does not see in it a mere blind force, but reveres it as the Supreme
Intelligence: and on the other hand he does not grovel before it in doubt and fear, because
he knows it is one with himself and is realizing itself through him, and therefore cannot have
any purpose antagonistic to his own individual welfare. Realizing this he deliberately places
his thoughts under the guidance of the Divine Spirit, knowing that his outward acts and conditions
must thereby be brought into harmony with the great forward movement of the Spirit, not only
at the stage he has now reached, but at all future stages. He does not at all deny the power
of his own thought as the creative agent in his own personal world,--on the contrary it is
precisely on the knowledge of this fact that his perception of the true adjustment between
the principles of Life is based; but for this very reason he is the more solicitous to be led
by that Wisdom which can see what he cannot see, so that his personal control over the conditions
of his own life may be employed to its continual increase and development.

In this way our affirmation of the "I am" ceases to be the petulant assertion of our limited
personality and becomes the affirmation that the Great I AM affirms its own I AM-ness both
in us and through us, and thus our use of the words becomes in very truth the Great Affirmative,
or that which is the root of all being as distinguished from that which has no being in itself
but is merely externalized by being as the vehicle for its expression. The flocculi described,
irregular in their shapes and presenting, as they must in nearly all cases, unsymmetrical faces
to their lines of motion, will be deflected from those courses which mutual gravitation, if
uninterfered with, would produce among them; and this will militate against that balancing
of movements which permanence of the cluster pre-supposes. If it be said, as it may truly be said,
that this is too trifling a cause of derangement to produce much
effect, then there comes the more important cause with which it co-operates.
 Thus the Great Affirmation makes us children of the Great King,
at once living in obedience to that Power which is above us, and exercising this same power
over all that world of secondary causation which is below us.

Thus in our measure and station each one of us will receive the mission of the I AM.

CHRIST THE FULFILLING OF THE LAW.

"Think not that I am come to destroy the law or the proph.ets: I am not come to destroy but
to fulfil." (Matt. v. 17.)

"Christ is the end of the law for righteousness to everyone that believeth." (Rom. x. 4.)

If these words are the utterance of a mere sectarian superstition they are worthless; but if
they are the statement of a great principle, then it is worth our while to enquire what that
principle is. The fulfilling of anything is the bringing into complete realization of all that
it potentially contains, and so the filling of any law to its fulness means bringing out all
the possibilities which are hidden in it. This is precisely the method which has brought forth
all the advances of material civilization. The laws of nature are the same now that they were
in the days of our rugged Anglo-Saxon ancestors, but they brought out only an infinitesimal
fraction of the possibilities which those laws contain: now we have brought out a good deal
more, but we have by no means exhausted them, and so we continue to advance, not by contradicting
natural laws, but by more fully realizing their capacity. Why should we not, then, apply the
same method to ourselves and see whether there are no potentialities hidden away in the law
of our own being which we have not as yet by any means brought to their fulfilment? We talk
of a good time coming and of the ameliorating of the race; but do we reflect that the race
is composed of individuals and that therefore real advance is to be made only by individual
improvement, and not by Act of Parliament? and if so, then the individual with whom to begin
is ourself.

The complete manifestation of the Law of Individuality is the end or purpose of the Bible teaching
concerning Christ. It is a teaching based upon Law, spiritual and mental, fully recognizing
that no effect can be produced except by the operation of an adequate cause, and Christ is
set before us both as explaining the causes and exhibiting the full measure of the effects.
All this is according to Law; and the importance of its being according to Law is that Law
is universal, and the potentialities of the Law are therefore inherent in everyone there is
no special law for anybody, but anybody can specialize the law by using it with a fuller understanding
of how much can be got out of it; and the purpose of the Scripture teaching regarding Christ
is to help us to do this.

