From time to time he watched Kasya. She was walking on the left side of the lake; against the
background of the sandy banks she stood out in relief as if in a picture. Her white waist and
red striped skirt and yellow kerchief glistened in the sunlight like a variegated flower. Though
it was spring the heat was unbearable. After she had gone about half a mile she turned aside
and disappeared into the woods. The afternoon hours were hot in the sun, but in the shade of
the trees it was quite cool. Kasya pressed forward, suddenly stopped, smiled, and blushed like
a rose.

In front of her in the pathway stood a youth about eighteen years of age.

This youth was the turpentine worker, from the edge of the woods, who was now on his way to
visit Stephan.

"The Lord be praised!" said he.

"Forever and ever," answered she, and in her confusion she covered her face with her apron,
peeping shyly out of a corner of it and smiling at her companion.

"Kasya," said he.

"What is it, John?"

"Is your father at home?"

"He is."

The turpentine worker, poor fellow, perhaps desired to speak of something else beside the father,
but somehow he was frightened and unconsciously inquired for him; then he became silent and
waited for Kasya to speak to him first. She stood confused, twisting the corners of her apron.

At last she spoke.

"John?"

"What is it, Kasya?"

"Does the turpentine works smoke to-day?" She also wished to speak of something else.

"Why should it not? The turpentine works never stop. I left lame Frank there; but dost thou
wish to go there?"

"No, I go to gather plants."

"I will go with thee, and on our return, if thou dost not chase me away, I will come to thy house."

"Why should I chase thee away?"

"If thou dost like me thou wilt not chase me away, and if thou dost not, then thou wilt. Tell
me, Kasya, dost thou like me?"

"Fate, my fate," and Kasya covered her face with her hands. "What can I say to thee? I like
thee, John, very much I like thee," she whispered faintly.

Then before he could reply she uncovered her blushing face and cried out, "Let us go and gather
plants; let us hurry."

And so went they, John and Kasya. The radiance of love surrounded them, but these simple children
of nature dared not speak of it. They felt it, although they knew not what they felt; they
were embarrassed but happy. Never before had the forest sung so wonderfully over their heads,
never was the wind so sweet and caressing, never at any time had the noises of the forest,
the rustling of the breeze in the trees, the voices of the birds, the echoes of the woods,
seemed to merge into such an angelic choir, so sweet and grand, as at this moment, full of
unconscious happiness.

Oh, holy power of love! how good an angel of light thou art, how rosy an aureole in the dusk,
how bright a rainbow on the cloud of human tears!

Meanwhile, in the woods resounded echoes from pine to pine, the barking of the dog, Burek,
who had escaped from the house and ran on the pathway after Kasya. He came panting heavily,
and with great joy he jumped with his big paws on Kasya and John, and looked from one to the
other with his wise and mild eyes, as if wishing to say:

"I see that you love one another; this is good."

He wagged his tail and ran quickly ahead of them, then circled round to them, then stopped,
barked once more with joy, and rushed into the woods, looking back from time to time on the
boy and girl.

Kasya put her hand to her forehead, and looking upward upon the bright sun between the leaves
she said:

"Just think, the sun is two hours beyond noontime and we have not yet gathered any plants.
Go thou, John, to the left side and I shall go the right, and let us begin. We should hasten,
for the dear Lord's sake."

They separated and went into the woods, but not far from one another and in a parallel direction,
so that they could see each other. Among the ferns between the pine trees could be seen fluttering
the vari-colored skirt and yellow kerchief of Kasya. The slender, supple maiden seemed to float
amid the berry-laden bushes, mosses and ferns. You would say it was some fairy wila or rusalka
of the woods; every moment she stooped and stood erect again, and so, further and further,
passing the pine trees, she entered deeper into the forest as some spritely nymph.

Sometimes the thick growth of young hemlocks and cedars would conceal her from view, then John
stopped, and putting his hand to his mouth would shout, "Halloo! Halloo!"

Kasya heard it; she stopped with a smile, and pretending that she did not see him, answered
in a high, silvery voice:

"John!"

The echo answers:

"John! John!"

Meanwhile Burek had espied a squirrel up a tree, and, standing before it looking upward, barked.
The squirrel sitting on a branch covered herself with her tail in a mocking manner, lifted
her forepaws to her mouth and rubbed her nose, seemed to play with her forefingers, make grimaces,
and laugh at the anger of Burek. Kasya, seeing it, laughed with a resounding, silvery tone,
and so did John, and so the woods were filled with the sound of human voices, echoes, laughter
and sunny joy.

Sometimes there was a deep silence, and then the woods seemed to speak; the breeze struck the
fronds of the ferns, which emitted a sharp sound; the trunks of the pines swayed and creaked,
and there was silence again.

Then could be heard the measured strokes of the woodpecker. It seemed as if some one kept knock--knocking
at a door, and you could even expect that some mysterious voice would ask:

"Who is there?"

Again, the wood thrush was whistling with a sweet voice; the golden-crowned hammer plumed his
feathers. In the thicket the pheasants clucked and the bright green humming birds flitted between
the leaves; sometimes on the top of the pine tree a crow, hiding itself from the heat of the
sun, lazily flapped its wings.

On this afternoon the weather was most clear, the sky was cloudless, and above the green canopy
of the leaves there spread out the blue dome of the heavens--immense, limitless, transparently
gray-tinted on the sides and deep blue above. In the sky stood the great golden sun; the space
was flooded with light; the air was bright and serene, and far-off objects stood out distinctly,
their forms clearly defined. From the height of heaven the eye of the great Creator embraced
the whole earth; in the fields the grain bowed to Him with a golden wave, rustled the heavy
heads of the wheat, and the delicate tasseled oats trembled like a cluster of tiny bells. In
the air, filled with brightness here and there, floated the spring thread of the spider's web,
blue from the azure of the sky and golden from the sun, as if a veritable thread from the loom
of the Mother of God.

In the vales between the fields of the waving grain stood dark-green meadows; here and there
were crystal springs, around whose edges the grass was greener still; the whole meadows were
sprinkled with yellow buttercups and dandelions which struck the eye with a profusion of golden
brightness. In the wet places there thrived cypress trees, which had an air of coldness and
moisture.

