VOYAGER'S TALES,

FROM THE COLLECTIONS OF RICHARD HAKLUYT.

INTRODUCTION.

Richard Hakluyt, notwithstanding the Dutch look of his name, was of a good British stock, from
Wales or the Welsh borders.  At the beginning of the fourteenth century an ancestor of his,
Hugo Hakelute, sat in Parliament as member for Leominster.

Richard Hakluyt, born about five years before the accession of Queen Elizabeth, was a boy at
Westminster School, when visits to a cousin in the Middle Temple, also a Richard Hakluyt, first
planted in him an enthusiasm for the study of adventure towards a wider use and knowledge of
the globe we live upon.  As a student at Christ Church, Oxford, all his leisure was spent on
the collection and reading of accounts of voyage and adventure.  He graduated as B. A. in 1574,
as M. A. in 1577, and lectured publicly upon geography, showing "both the old imperfectly composed,
and the new lately reformed maps, globes, spheres, and other instruments of this art."

In 1582 Hakluyt, at the age of about twenty-nine, issued his first publication:  "Divers Voyages
touching the Discovery of America and the Lands adjacent unto the same, made first of all by
our Englishmen, and afterwards by the Frenchmen and Bretons:  and certain Notes of Advertisements
for Observations, necessary for such as shall hereafter make the like Attempt."  His researches
had already made him the personal friend of the famous sea captains of Elizabeth's reign. 
In 1583 he had taken orders, and went to Paris as chaplain to the English ambassador, Sir Edward
Stafford.  From Paris he returned to England for a short time, in 1584, and laid before the
Queen a paper recommending the plantation of unsettled parts of America.  It was called "A
particular Discourse concerning Western Discoveries, written in the year 1584, by Richard Hakluyt,
of Oxford, at the request and direction of the right worshipful Mr. Walter Raleigh, before
the coming home of his two barks."  Raleigh and Hakluyt were within a year of the same age.

To found a colonial empire in America by settling upon new lands, and by dispossessing Spaniards,
was one of the grand ideas of Walter Raleigh, who obtained, on the 25th of March in that year,
1584, a patent authorising him to search out and take possession of new lands in the Western
world.  He then fitted out two ships, which left England on the 27th of April, under the command
of Philip Amadas and Arthur Barlow.  In June they had reached the West Indies, then they sailed
north by the coasts of Florida and Carolina, and they had with them two natives when they returned
to England in September, 1584.  In December Raleigh's patent was enlarged and confirmed, and
presently afterwards Raleigh was knighted.

Richard Hakluyt's paper, in aid of this beginning of the shaping of another England in the
New World, was for a long time lost.  It was first printed in 1877 at Cambridge, Massachusetts,
among the Collections of the Maine Historical Society.  It won for its author a promise of
the next vacant prebend at Bristol; the vacancy came about a year later, and the Rev. Richard
Hakluyt was admitted to it in 1586.

Hakluyt remained about five years at Paris as Chaplain to the English Embassy, and while there
he caused the publication in 1586 of an account by Laudonniere of voyages into Florida.  This
he also translated and published, in London, in 1587, as "A Notable History containing Four
Voyages made by certain French Captains into Florida." In 1588 Hakluyt returned to England,
and in the next year, 1589, he published in one folio volume, "The Principal Navigations, Voyages,
and Discoveries of the English Nation."  In April of the next year he became rector of Witheringsett-cum-Brockford,
in Suffolk.  The full development of his work appeared in three volumes folio in the years
1598, 1599, and 1600, as "The Principal Navigations, Voyages, Traffics, and Discoveries of
the English Nation," the first of these volumes differing materially from the volume that had
appeared in 1589.

Hakluyt became, in May, 1602, prebendary, and in 1603 archdeacon of Westminster.  He was twice
married, died about six months after Shakespeare, and was buried in Westminster Abbey on the
26th of November, 1616.

H. M.

VOYAGERS' TALES.

THE WORTHY ENTERPRISE OF JOHN FOX, AN ENGLISHMAN, IN DELIVERING 266 CHRISTIANS OUT OF THE CAPTIVITY
OF THE TURKS AT ALEXANDRIA, THE 3RD OF JANUARY, 1577.

Among our merchants here in England, it is a common voyage to traffic to Spain; whereunto a
ship called the Three Half Moons, manned with eight and thirty men, well fenced with munitions,
the better to encounter their enemies withal, and having wind and tide, set from Portsmouth
1563, and bended her journey towards Seville, a city in Spain, intending there to traffic with
them.  And falling near the Straits, they perceived themselves to be beset round about with
eight galleys of the Turks, in such wise that there was no way for them to fly or to escape
away, but that either they must yield or else be sunk, which the owner perceiving, manfully
encouraged his company, exhorting them valiantly to show their manhood, showing them that God
was their God, and not their enemies', requesting them also not to faint in seeing such a heap
of their enemies ready to devour them; putting them in mind also, that if it were God's pleasure
to give them into their enemies' hands, it was not they that ought to show one displeasant
look or countenance there against; but to take it patiently, and not to prescribe a day and
time for their deliverance, as the citizens of Bethulia did, but to put themselves under His
mercy.  "Such," quoth he, "hath been the valiantness of our countrymen, and such hath been
the mighty power of our God."

With such other like encouragements, exhorting them to behave themselves manfully, they fell
all on their knees, making their prayers briefly unto God; who, being all risen up again, perceived
their enemies, by their signs and defiances, bent to the spoil, whose mercy was nothing else
but cruelty; whereupon every man took him to his weapon.

Then stood up one Grove, the master, being a comely man, with his sword and target, holding
them up in defiance against his enemies.  So likewise stood up the owner, the master's mate,
boatswain, purser, and every man well appointed.  Now likewise sounded up the drums, trumpets,
and flutes, which would have encouraged any man, had he never so little heart or courage in him.

Then taketh him to his charge John Fox, the gunner, in the disposing of his pieces, in order
to the best effect, and, sending his bullets towards the Turks, who likewise bestowed their
pieces thrice as fast towards the Christians.  But shortly they drew near, so that the bowmen
fell to their charge in sending forth their arrows so thick amongst the galleys, and also in
doubling their shot so sore upon the galleys, that there were twice so many of the Turks slain
as the number of the Christians were in all.  But the Turks discharged twice as fast against
the Christians, and so long, that the ship was very sore stricken and bruised under water;
which the Turks, perceiving, made the more haste to come aboard the ship:  which, ere they
could do, many a Turk bought it dearly with the loss of their lives.  Yet was all in vain;
boarded they were, where they found so hot a skirmish, that it had been better they had not
meddled with the feast; for the Englishmen showed themselves men indeed, in working manfully
with their brown bills and halberds, where the owner, master, boatswain, and their company
stood to it so lustily, that the Turks were half dismayed.  Then would it have grieved any
hard heart to see these infidels so violently entreating the Christians, not having any respect
of their manhood, which they had tasted of, nor yet respecting their own state, how they might
have met with such a booty as might have given them the overthrow; but no remorse hereof, or
anything else doth bridle their fierce and tyrannous dealing, but the Christians must needs
to the galleys, to serve in new offices; and they were no sooner in them, but their garments
were pulled over their ears, and torn from their backs, and they set to the oars.

I will make no mention of their miseries, being now under their enemies' raging stripes.  I
think there is no man will judge their fare good, or their bodies unloaden of stripes, and
not pestered with too much heat, and also with too much cold; but I will go to my purpose,
which is to show the end of those being in mere misery, which continually do call on God with
a steadfast hope that He will deliver them, and with a sure faith that He can do it.  Insomuch,
till at the last God sent him favour in the sight of the keeper of the prison, so that he had
leave to go in and out to the road at his pleasure, paying a certain stipend unto the keeper,
and wearing a lock about his leg, which liberty likewise five more had upon like sufferance,
who, by reason of their long imprisonment, not being feared or suspected to start aside, or
that they would work the Turks any mischief, had liberty to go in and out at the said road,
in such manner as this John Fox did, with irons on their legs, and to return again at night.

In the year of our Lord 1577, in the winter season, the galleys happily coming to their accustomed
harbourage, and being discharged of all their masts, sails, and other such furnitures as unto
galleys do appertain, and all the masters and mariners of them being then nested in their own
homes, there remained in the prison of the said road two hundred three score and eight Christian
prisoners who had been taken by the Turks' force, and were of fifteen sundry nations.  Among
which there were three Englishmen, whereof one was named John Fox, of Woodbridge, in Suffolk,
the other William Wickney, of Portsmouth, in the county of Southampton, and the third Robert
Moore, of Harwich, in the county of Essex; which John Fox, having been thirteen or fourteen
years under their gentle entreatance, and being too weary thereof, minding his escape, weighed
with himself by what means it might be brought to pass, and continually pondering with himself
thereof, took a good heart unto him, in the hope that God would not be always scourging His
children, and never ceasing to pray Him to further his intended enterprise, if that it should
redound to His glory.

Not far from the road, and somewhat from thence, at one side of the city, there was a certain
victualling house, which one Peter Vuticaro had hired, paying also a certain fee unto the keeper
of the road.  This Peter Vuticaro was a Spaniard born, and a Christian, and had been prisoner
above thirty years, and never practised any means to escape, but kept himself quiet without
touch or suspect of any conspiracy, until that now this John Fox using much thither, they brake
one to another their minds, concerning the restraint of their liberty and imprisonment.  Whereupon
the same John Fox and Peter Vuticaro, and the other five appointed to meet all together in
the prison the next day, being the last day of December, where this John Fox certified the
rest of the prisoners what their intent and device was, and how and when they minded to bring
that purpose to pass, who thereunto persuaded them without much ado to further their device;
which, the same John Fox seeing, delivered unto them a sort of files, which he had gathered
together for this purpose by the means of Peter Vuticaro, charging them that every man should
be ready, discharged of his irons, by eight of the clock on the next day at night.

On the next day at night, the said John Fox, and his five other companions, being all come
to the house of Peter Vuticaro, passing the time away in mirth for fear of suspect till the
night came on, so that it was time for them to put in practice their device, sent Peter Vuticaro
to the master of the road, in the name of one of the masters of the city, with whom this keeper
was acquainted, and at whose request he also would come at the first; who desired him to take
the pains to meet him there, promising him that he would bring him back again.  The keeper
agreed to go with him, asking the warders not to bar the gate, saying that he would not stay
long, but would come again with all speed.

In the mean-season, the other seven had provided them of such weapons as they could get in
that house, and John Fox took him to an old rusty sword-blade without either hilt or pommel,
which he made to serve his turn in bending the hand end of the sword instead of a pommel, and
the other had got such spits and glaves as they found in the house.

The keeper being now come unto the house, and perceiving no light nor hearing any noise, straightway
suspected the matter; and returning backward, John Fox, standing behind the corner of the house,
stepped forth unto him; who, perceiving it to be John Fox, said, "O Fox, what have I deserved
of thee that thou shouldest seek my death?"

"Thou villain," quoth Fox, "hast been a bloodsucker of many a Christian's blood, and now thou
shalt know what thou hast deserved at my hands," wherewith he lift up his bright shining sword
of ten years' rust, and stroke him so main a blow, as therewithal his head clave asunder so
that he fell stark dead to the ground.  Whereupon Peter Vuticaro went in and certified the
rest how the case stood with the keeper, and they came presently forth, and some with their
spits ran him through, and the other with their glaves hewed him in sunder, cut off his head,
and mangled him so that no man should discern what he was.  Which when they were all within
proved contrary; for, quoth Fox, "My masters, here is not to every man a man, wherefore look
you, play your parts."  Who so behaved themselves indeed, that they had despatched these five
quickly.  Then John Fox, intending not to be barren of his enterprise, and minding to work
surely in that which he went about, barred the gate surely, and planted a cannon against it.

Then entered they into the jailer's lodge, where they found the keys of the fortress and prison
by his bedside, and there got they all better weapons.  In this chamber was a chest wherein
was a rich treasure, and all in ducats, which this Peter Vuticaro and two more opening, stuffed
themselves so full as they could between their shirts and their skin; which John Fox would
not once touch and said, "that it was his and their liberty which he fought for, to the honour
of his God, and not to make a mart of the wicked treasure of the infidels."  Yet did these
words sink nothing unto their stomachs; they did it for a good intent. So did Saul save the
fattest oxen to offer unto the Lord, and they to serve their own turn.  But neither did Saul
scape the wrath of God therefor, neither had these that thing which they desired so, and did
thirst after.  Such is God's justice.  He that they put their trust in to deliver them from
the tyrannous hands of their enemies, he, I say, could supply their want of necessaries.

Now these eight, being armed with such weapons as they thought well of, thinking themselves
sufficient champions to encounter a stronger enemy, and coming unto the prison, Fox opened
the gates and doors thereof, and called forth all the prisoners, whom he set, some to ramming
up the gate, some to the dressing up of a certain galley which was the best in all the road,
and was called "The Captain of Alexandria," whereinto some carried masts, sails, oars, and
other such furniture, as doth belong unto a galley.

At the prison were certain warders whom John Fox and his company slew, in the killing of whom
there were eight more of the Turks which perceived them, and got them to the top of the prison,
unto whom John Fox and his company were fain to come by ladders, where they found a hot skirmish,
for some of them were there slain, some wounded, and some but scarred and not hurt.  As John
Fox was thrice shot through his apparel, and not hurt, Peter Vuticaro and the other two, that
had armed them with the ducats, were slain, as not able to wield themselves, being so pestered
with the weight and uneasy carrying of the wicked and profane treasure; and also divers Christians
were as well hurt about that skirmish as Turks slain.

Amongst the Turks was one thrust through, who (let us not say that it was ill-fortune) fell
off from the top of the prison wall, and made such a groaning that the inhabitants thereabout
(as here and there stood a house or two), came and questioned him, so that they understood
the case, how that the prisoners were paying their ransoms; wherewith they raised both Alexandria,
which lay on the west side of the road, and a castle which was at the city's end next to the
road, and also another fortress which lay on the north side of the road, so that now they had
no way to escape but one, which by man's reason (the two holds lying so upon the mouth of the
road) might seem impossible to be a way for them.  So was the Red Sea impossible for the Israelites
to pass through, the hills and rocks lay so on the one side, and their enemies compassed them
on the other.  So was it impossible that the walls of Jericho should fall down, being neither
undermined nor yet rammed at with engines, nor yet any man's wisdom, policy, or help, set or
put thereunto.  Such impossibilities can our God make possible.  He that held the lion's jaws
from rending Daniel asunder, yea, or yet from once touching him to his hurt, cannot He hold
the roaring cannons of this hellish force?  He that kept the fire's rage in the hot burning
oven from the three children that praised His name, cannot He keep the fire's flaming blasts
from among His elect?

Now is the road fraught with lusty soldiers, labourers, and mariners, who are fain to stand
to their tackling, in setting to every man his hand, some to the carrying in of victuals, some
munitions, some oars, and some one thing some another, but most are keeping their enemy from
the wall of the road.  But to be short, there was no time misspent, no man idle, nor any man's
labour ill-bestowed or in vain.  So that in short time this galley was ready trimmed up.  Whereinto
every man leaped in all haste, hoisting up the sails lustily, yielding themselves to His mercy
and grace, in Whose hands is both wind and weather.

Now is this galley a-float, and out of the shelter of the road; now have the two castles full
power upon the galley; now is there no remedy but to sink.  How can it be avoided?  The cannons
let fly from both sides, and the galley is even in the middest and between them both. What
man can devise to save it?  There is no man but would think it must needs be sunk.

There was not one of them that feared the shot which went thundering round about their ears,
nor yet were once scarred or touched with five and forty shot which came from the castles.
Here did God hold forth His buckler, He shieldeth now this galley, and hath tried their faith
to the uttermost.  Now cometh His special help; yea, even when man thinks them past all help,
then cometh He Himself down from Heaven with His mighty power, then is His present remedy most
ready.  For they sail away, being not once touched by the glance of a shot, and are quickly
out of the Turkish cannons' reach.  Then might they see them coming down by heaps to the water's
side, in companies like unto swarms of bees, making show to come after them with galleys, bustling
themselves to dress up the galleys, which would be a swift piece of work for them to do, for
that they had neither oars, masts, sails, nor anything else ready in any galley.  But yet they
are carrying into them, some into one galley, and some into another, so that, being such a
confusion amongst them, without any certain guide, it were a thing impossible to overtake the
Christians; beside that, there was no man that would take charge of a galley, the weather was
so rough, and there was such an amazedness amongst them.  And verily, I think their god was
amazed thereat; it could not be but that he must blush for shame, he can speak never a word
for dulness, much less can he help them in such an extremity.  Well, howsoever it is, he is
very much to blame to suffer them to receive such a gibe.  But howsoever their god behaved
himself, our God showed Himself a God indeed, and that He was the only living God; for the
seas were swift under His faithful, which made the enemies aghast to behold them; a skilfuller
pilot leads them, and their mariners bestir them lustily; but the Turks had neither mariners,
pilot, nor any skilful master, that was in readiness at this pinch.

When the Christians were safe out of the enemy's coast, John Fox called to them all, telling
them to be thankful unto Almighty God for their delivery, and most humbly to fall down upon
their knees, beseeching Him to aid them to their friends' land, and not to bring them into
another danger, since He had most mightily delivered them from so great a thraldom and bondage.

Thus when every man had made his petition, they fell straightway to their labour with the oars,
in helping one another when they were wearied, and with great labour striving to come to some
Christian land, as near as they could guess by the stars.  Having, I say, no victuals in the
galley, it might seem one misery continually to fall upon another's neck; but to be brief the
famine grew to be so great that in twenty-eight days, wherein they were on the sea, there died
eight persons, to the astonishment of all the rest.  They kept there the sword wherewith John
Fox had killed the keeper, esteeming it as a most precious relic, and hung it up for a monument.

When they thought good, having leave to depart from thence, they sailed along the coast till
they arrived at Tarento, where they sold their galley, and divided it, every man having a part
thereof.  And then they came afoot to Naples, where they departed asunder, every man taking
him to his next way home.  From whence John Fox took his journey unto Rome, where he was well
entertained by an Englishman who presented his worthy deed unto the Pope, who rewarded him
liberally, and gave him letters unto the King of Spain, where he was very well entertained
of him there, who for this his most worthy enterprise gave him in fee twenty pence a day. From
whence, being desirous to come into his own country, he came thither at such time as he conveniently
could, which was in the year of our Lord God 1579; who being come into England went unto the
Court, and showed all his travel unto the Council, who considering of the state of this man,
in that he had spent and lost a great part of his youth in thraldom and bondage, extended to
him their liberality to help to maintain him now in age, to their right honour and to the encouragement
of all true-hearted Christians.

THE COPY OF THE CERTIFICATE FOR JOHN FOX AND HIS COMPANY, MADE BY THE PRIOR AND THE BRETHREN
OF GALLIPOLI, WHERE THEY FIRST LANDED.

We, the Prior and Fathers of the Convent of the Amerciates, of the city of Gallipoli, of the
order of Preachers, do testify that upon the 29th of January last past, 1577, there came into
the said city a certain galley from Alexandria, taken from the Turks, with two hundred and
fifty-eight Christians, whereof was principal Master John Fox, an Englishman, a gunner, and
one of the chiefest that did accomplish that great work, whereby so many Christians have recovered
their liberties, in token and remembrance whereof, upon our earnest request to the same John
Fox, he has left here an old sword, wherewith he slew the keeper of the prison, which sword
we do as a monument and memorial of so worthy a deed, hang up in the chief place of our convent
house.  And for because all things aforesaid, are such as we will testify to be true, as they
are orderly passed, and have therefore good credit, that so much as is above expressed is true,
and for the more faith thereof, we, the Prior and Fathers aforesaid, have ratified and subscribed
these presents.  Given in Gallipoli, the 3rd of February, 1577.

I, Friar VINCENT BARBA, Prior of the same place, confirm the premises, as they are above written.

I, Friar ALBERT DAMARO, of Gallipoli, sub-prior, confirm as much.

I, Friar ANTHONY CELLELER, of Galli, confirm as aforesaid.

I, Friar BARTLEMEW, of Gallipoli, confirm as above said.

I, Friar FRANCIS, of Gallipoli, confirm as much.

THE BISHOP OF ROME, HIS LETTERS IN BEHALF OF JOHN FOX.

Be it known unto all men, to whom this writing shall come, that the bringer hereof, John Fox,
Englishman, a gunner, after he had served captive in the Turks' galleys, by the space of fourteen
years, at length, through God his help, taking good opportunity, the 3rd of January last passed,
slew the keeper of the prison (whom he first stroke on the face) together with four and twenty
other Turks, by the assistance of his fellow-prisoners; and with 266 Christians (of whose liberty
he was the author) launched from Alexandria, and from thence arrived first at Gallipoli, in
Candia, and afterwards at Tarento, in Apulia; the written testimony and credit of which things,
as also of others, the same John Fox hath in public tables from Naples.

Upon Easter Eve he came to Rome, and is now determined to take his journey to the Spanish Court,
hoping there to obtain some relief towards his living; wherefore the poor distressed man humbly
beseecheth, and we in his behalf, do in the bowels of Christ, desire you, that taking compassion
of his former captivity and present penury, you do not only suffer him freely to pass through
all your cities and towns, but also succour him with your charitable alms, the reward whereof
you shall hereafter most assuredly receive, which we hope you will afford to him, whom with
tender affection of pity we commend unto you.  At Rome, the 20th of April, 1577.

THOMAS GROLOS, Englishman, Bishop of Astraphen.

RICHARD SILLEUN, Prior Angliae.

ANDREAS LUDOVICUS, Register to our Sovereign Lord the Pope, which for the greater credit of
the premises, have set my seal to these presents. At Rome, the day and year above written.

MAURICIUS CLEMENT, the governor and keeper of the English hospital in the city.  We license
him to practice, and give him the office of a gunner, and have ordained that he go to our said
realm there to serve in the said office in the galleys, which by our commandment are lately
made.  And we do command that you cause to be paid to him eight ducats pay a month, for the
time that he shall serve in the said galleys as a gunner, or till we can otherwise provide
for him, the said eight ducats monthly of the money which is already of our provision, present
and to come, and to have regard of those which come with him.  From Escurial the 10th of August,
1577.--I, the King,

                                          JUAN DEL GADO.

And under that a confirmation of the Council.

VERSES WRITTEN BY A. M. TO THE COURTEOUS READERS, WHO WAS PRESENT AT ROME WHEN JOHN FOX RECEIVED
HIS LETTERS OF THE POPE.

  Leaving at large all fables vainly used,
  All trifling toys that do no truth import,
  Lo, here how the end (at length) though long diffused,
  Unfoldeth plain a true and rare report;
  To glad those minds which seek their country's wealth,
  By proffered pains to enlarge his happy health.
  At Rome I was, when Fox did there arrive,
  Therefore I may sufficiently express,
  What gallant joy his deeds did there revive
  In the hearts of those which heard his valiantness.
  And how the Pope did recompense his pains,
  And letters gave to move his greater gains.

  But yet I know that many do misdoubt,
  That those his pains are fables and untrue;
  Not only I in this will bear him out,
  But diverse more that did his patents view.
  And unto those so boldly I daresay,
  That nought but truth John Fox doth here bewray;
  Besides here's one was slave with him in thrall,
  Lately returned into our native land,
  This witness can this matter perfect all,
  What needeth more? for witness he may stand.
  And thus I end, unfolding what I know,
  The other man more larger proof can show.
                Honos alit artes,     A. M.

                            -----

THE VOYAGE MADE TO TRIPOLIS IN BARBARY, IN THE YEAR 1584, WITH A SHIP CALLED THE JESUS, WHEREIN
THE ADVENTURES AND DISTRESSES OF SOME ENGLISHMEN ARE TRULY REPORTED, AND OTHER NECESSARY CIRCUMSTANCES
OBSERVED.  WRITTEN BY THOMAS SANDERS.

This voyage was set forth by the Right Worshipful Sir Edward Osborne Knight, chief merchant
of all the Turkish Company, and one Master Richard Stapers, the ship being of the burden of
one hundred tons, called the Jesus; she was builded at Farmne, a river by Portsmouth. The owners
were Master Thomas Thompson, Nicholas Carnabie, and John Gilman.  The master (under God) was
one Zaccheus Hellier, of Blackwall, and his mate was one Richard Morris, of that place; their
pilot was one Anthony Jerado, a Frenchman, of the province of Marseilles; the purser was one
William Thompson, our owner's son; the merchants' factors were Romaine Sonnings, a Frenchman,
and Richard Skegs, servant unto the said Master Stapers.  The owners were bound unto the merchants
by charter party thereupon in one thousand marks, that the said ship, by God's permission should
go for Tripolis in Barbary, that is to say, first from Portsmouth to Newhaven in Normandy,
thence to S. Lukar, otherwise called S. Lucas, in Andalusia, and from thence to Tripolis, which
is in the east part of Africa, and so to return unto London.  About the 29th day then next
following we departed thence, and the 1st day of December, by means of a contrary wind, we
were driven to Plymouth.  The 18th day then next following we made forthward again, and by
force of weather we were driven to Falmouth, where we remained until the 1st day of January,
at which time the wind coming fair we departed thence, and about the 20th day of the said month
we arrived safely at S. Lucas.  And about the 9th day of March next following we made sail
from thence, and about the 18th day of the same month we came to Tripolis in Barbary, where
we were very well entertained by the king of that country and also of the commons. The commodities
of that place are sweet oils; the king there is a merchant, and the rather (willing to prefer
himself before his commons) requested our said factors to traffic with him, and promised them
that if they would take his oils at his own price they should pay no manner of custom, and
they took of him certain tons of oil; and afterward perceiving that they might have far better
cheap, notwithstanding the custom free, they desired the king to license them to take the oils
at the pleasure of his commons, for that his price did exceed theirs; whereunto the king would
not agree, but was rather contented to abate his price, insomuch that the factors bought all
their oils of the king's custom free, and so laded the same aboard.

In the meantime there came to that place one Miles Dickinson, in a ship of Bristol, who together
with our said factors took a house to themselves there.  He doubted nothing less than falsehood,
which is seldom known among merchants, and specially being together in one house, and is the
more detestable between Christians, they being in Turkey among the heathen; the said Dickinson
did not tell the money presently, until he came to his lodging, and then, finding nine chikinoes
lacking of his hundred (which was about three pounds, for that every chikinoe is worth seven
shillings of English money), he came to the said Romaine Sonnings and delivered him his handkerchief,
and asked him how many chikinoes he had delivered him.  Sonnings answered, "A hundred"; Dickinson
said "No"; and so they protested and swore on both parts.  But in the end the said Romaine
Sonnings did swear deeply with detestable oaths and curses; and prayed God that he might show
his works on him, that other might take ensample thereby, and that he might be hanged like
a dog, and never come into England again, if he did not deliver unto the said Dickinson a hundred
chikinoes.  And here behold a notable example of all blasphemers, cursers, and swearers, how
God rewarded him accordingly; for many times it cometh to pass that God showeth his miracles
upon such monstrous blasphemers to the ensample of others, as now hereafter you shall hear
what befell to this Romaine Sonnings.

There was a man in the said town a pledge, whose name was Patrone Norado, who the year before
had done this Sonnings some pleasure there. The foresaid Patrone Norado was indebted unto a
Turk of that town in the sum of four hundred and fifty crowns, for certain goods sent by him
into Christendom in a ship of his own, and by his own brother, and himself remained in Tripolis
as pledge until his said brother's return; and, as the report went there, he came among lewd
company, and lost his brother's said ship and goods at dice, and never returned unto him again.

The said Patrone Norado, being void of all hope and finding now opportunity, consulted with
the said Sonnings for to swim a-seaboard the islands, and the ship, being then out of danger,
should take him in (as was afterwards confessed), and so go to Tallowne, in the province of
Marseilles, with this Patrone Norado, and there to take in the rest of his lading.

The ship being ready the first day of May, and having her sails all abroad, our said factors
did take their leave of the king, who very courteously bid them farewell, and when they came
aboard they commanded the master and the company hastily to get out the ship.  The master answered
that it was impossible, for that the wind was contrary and overblowed.  And he required us,
upon forfeiture of our bands, that we should do our endeavour to get her forth.  Then went
we to warp out the ship, and presently the king sent a boat aboard of us, with three men in
her, commanding the said Sonnings to come ashore, at whose coming the king demanded of him
custom for the oils.  Sonnings answered him that his highness had promised to deliver them
customs free.  But, notwithstanding, the king weighed not his said promise, and as an infidel
that hath not the fear of God before his eyes, nor regard of his word, albeit he was a king,
he caused the said Sonnings to pay the custom to the uttermost penny; and afterwards ordered
him to make haste away, saying that the janisaries would have the oil ashore again.

These janisaries are soldiers there under the Great Turk, and their power is above the king's.
And so the said factor departed from the king, and came to the waterside, and called for a
boat to come aboard, and he brought with him the foresaid Patrone Norado.  The company, inquisitive
to know what man that was, Sonnings answered that he was his countryman, a passenger.  "I pray
God," said the company, "that we come not into trouble by this man."  Then said Sonnings angrily,
"What have you to do with any matters of mine?  If anything chance otherwise than well, I must
answer for all."

Now the Turk unto whom this Patrone Norado was indebted, missing him, supposed him to be aboard
of our ship, presently went unto the king and told him that he thought that his pledge, Patrone
Norado, was aboard on the English ship.  Whereupon the king presently sent a boat aboard of
us, with three men in her, commanding the said Sonnings to come ashore; and, not speaking anything
as touching the man, he said that he would come presently in his own boat; but as soon as they
were gone he willed us to warp forth the ship, and said that he would see the knaves hanged
before he would go ashore.  And when the king saw that he came not ashore, but still continued
warping away the ship, he straight commanded the gunner of the bulwark next unto us to shoot
three shots without ball.  Then we came all to the said Sonnings, and asked him what the matter
was that we were shot at; he said that it was the janisaries who would have the oil ashore
again, and willed us to make haste away.  With that came forth a Spaniard called Sebastian,
which had been an old servitor in Flanders, and he said that, upon the performance of that
promise, he would undertake either to sink us or to cause us to come in again, and thereto
he would gage his life; and at the first shot he split our rudder's head in pieces, and the
second shot he struck us under water, and the third shot he shot us through our foremast with
a culverin shot, and thus, he having rent both our rudder and mast and shot us under water,
we were enforced to go in again.

This Sebastian for all his diligence herein had neither his liberty nor a hundred crowns, so
promised by the said king; but, after his service done, was committed again to prison, whereby
may appear the regard that a Turk or infidel hath of his work, although he be able to perform
it--yea, more, though he be a king.

Then our merchants, seeing no remedy, they, together with five of our company, went ashore;
and they then ceased shooting.  They shot unto us in the whole nine-and-thirty shots without
the hurt of any man.

And when our merchants came ashore the king commanded presently that they, with the rest of
our company that were with them, should be chained four and four to a hundredweight of iron,
and when we came in with the ship there came presently above a hundred Turks aboard of us,
and they searched us and stripped our very clothes from our backs, and broke open our chests,
and made a spoil of all that we had; and the Christian caitiffs likewise that came aboard of
us made spoil of our goods, and used us as ill as the Turks did.  And our master's mate, having
a Geneva Bible in his hand, there came the king's chief gunner and took it out from him, who
showed me of it; and I, having the language, went presently to the king's treasurer, and told
him of it, saying that since it was the will of God that we should fall into their hands, yet
that they should grant us to use our consciences to our own discretion, as they suffered the
Spaniards and other nations to use theirs; and he granted us.  Then I told him that the master
gunner had taken away a Bible from one of our men:  the treasurer went presently and commanded
him to deliver up the Bible again, which he did.  And within a little after he took it from
the man again, and I showed the treasurer of it, and presently he commanded him to deliver
it again, saying, "Thou villain! wilt thou turn to Christianity again?" for he was a relagado,
which is one that was first a Christian and afterwards becometh a Turk; and so he delivered
me the Bible the second time.  And then I, having it in my hand, the gunner came to me, and
spake these words, saying, "Thou dog!  I will have the book in despite of thee!" and took it
from me, saying, "If you tell the king's treasurer of it any more, by Mahomet I will be revenged
of thee!"  Notwithstanding I went the third time unto the king's treasurer, and told him of
it; and he came with me, saying thus unto the gunner:  "By the head of the Great Turk if thou
take it from him again thou shalt have a hundred bastinadoes."  And forthwith he delivered
me the book, saying he had not the value of a pin of the spoil of the ship--which was the better
for him, as hereafter you shall hear; for there was none, either Christian or Turk, that took
the value of a pennyworth of our goods from us but perished both body and goods within seventeen
months following, as hereafter shall plainly appear.

Then came the guardian Basha, who is the keeper of the king's captives, to fetch us all ashore;
and then I, remembering the miserable estate of poor distressed captives in the time of their
bondage to those infidels, went to mine own chest, and took out thereof a jar of oil, and filled
a basket full of white ruske, to carry ashore with me.  But before I came to the Banio the
Turkish boys had taken away almost all my bread, and the keeper said, "Deliver me the jar of
oil, and when thou comest to the Banio thou shalt have it again;" but I never had it of him
any more.

But when I came to the Banio and saw our merchants and all the rest of our company in chains,
and we all ready to receive the same reward, what heart is there so hard but would have pitied
our cause, hearing or seeing the lamentable greeting there was betwixt us.  All this happened
the first of May, 1584.

And the second day of the same month the king with all his council sat in judgment upon us.
The first that were had forth to be arraigned were the factors and the masters, and the king
asked them wherefore they came not ashore when he sent for them.  And Romaine Sonnings answered
that, though he were a king on shore, and might command there, so was he as touching those
that were under him; and therefore said, if any offence be, the fault is wholly in myself and
in no other.  Then forthwith the king gave judgment that the said Romaine Sonnings should be
hanged over the north-east bulwark, from whence he conveyed the forenamed Patrone Norado. 
And then he called for our master, Andrew Dier, and used few words to him, and so condemned
him to be hanged over the walls of the westernmost bulwarks.

Then fell our other factor, named Richard Skegs, upon his knees before the king, and said,
"I beseech your highness either to pardon our master or else suffer me to die for him, for
he is ignorant of this cause."  And then the people of that country, favouring the said Richard
Skegs, besought the king to pardon them both.  So then the king spake these words:  "Behold,
for thy sake I pardon the master."  Then presently the Turks shouted and cried, saying, "Away
with the master from the presence of the king."  And then he came into the Banio where we were,
and told us what had happened, and we all rejoiced at the good hap of Master Skegs, that he
was saved, and our master for his sake.

But afterwards our joy was turned to double sorrow, for in the meantime the king's mind was
altered:  for that one of his council had advised him that, unless the master died also, by
the law they could not confiscate the ship nor goods, neither make captive any of the men.
Whereupon the king sent for our master again, and gave him another judgment after his pardon
for one cause, which was that he should be hanged.  Here all true Christians may see what trust
a Christian man may put in an infidel's promise, who, being a king, pardoned a man now, as
you have heard, and within an hour after hanged him for the same cause before a whole multitude;
and also promised our factors their oils custom free, and at their going away made them pay
the uttermost penny for the custom thereof.

And when that Romaine Sonnings saw no remedy but that he should die, he protested to turn Turk,
hoping thereby to have saved his life.  Then said the Turk, "If thou wilt turn Turk, speak
the words that thereunto belong;" and he did so.  Then said they unto him, "Now thou shalt
die in the faith of a Turk;" and so he did, as the Turks reported that were at his execution;
and the forenamed Patrone Norado, whereas before he had liberty and did nothing, he then was
condemned slave perpetual, except there were payment made of the foresaid sum of money.

Then the king condemned all us, who were in number five and twenty, of which two were hanged
(as you have heard) and one died the first day we came on shore by the visitation of Almighty
God, and the other three and twenty he condemned slaves perpetually unto the Great Turk, and
the ship and goods were confiscated to the use of the Great Turk; then we all fell down upon
our knees, giving God thanks for this sorrowful visitation and giving ourselves wholly to the
almighty power of God, unto whom all secrets are known, that He of His goodness would vouchsafe
to look upon us.

Here may all true Christian hearts see the wonderful works of God showed upon such infidels,
blasphemers, and runagate Christians, and so you shall read in the end of this book of the
like upon the unfaithful king and all his children, and of as many as took any portion of the
said goods.

But first to show our miserable bondage and slavery, and unto what small pittance and allowance
we were tied, for every five men had allowance but five aspers of bread in a day, which is
but twopence English, and our lodging was to lie on the bare boards, with a very simple cape
to cover us.  And when we came to the place where we saw the carmosel, we were not suffered
to have neither needle, bodkin, knife, or any other instrument about us, nor at any other time
in the night, upon pain of one hundred bastinadoes:  we were then also cruelly manacled, in
such sort that we could not put our hands the length of one foot asunder the one from the other,
and every night they searched our chains three times, to see if they were fast riveted.  We
continued the fight with the carmosel three hours, and then we took it, and lost but two of
our men in that fight; but there were slain of the Greeks five, and fourteen were cruelly hurt;
and they that were found were presently made slaves, and chained to the oars, and within fifteen
days after we returned again into Tripolis, and then we were put to all manner of slavery.
I was put to hew stones, and other to carry stones, and some to draw the cart with earth, and
some to make mortar, and some to draw stones (for at that time the Turks builded a church),
and thus we were put to all kinds of slavery that was to be done.  And in the time of our being
there the Moors, that are the husbandmen of the country, rebelled against the king, because
he would have constrained them to pay greater tribute than heretofore they had done, so that
the soldiers of Tripolis marched forth of the town, to have joined battle against the Moors
for their rebellion, and the king sent with them four pieces of ordnance, which were drawn
by the captives twenty miles into the country after them, and at the sight thereof the Moors
fled, and then the captains returned back again.  Then I, and certain Christians more, were
sent twelve miles into the country with a cart to load timber, and we returned again the same day.

Now, the king had eighteen captives, which three times a week went to fetch wood thirty miles
from the town, and on a time he appointed me for one of the eighteen, and we departed at eight
of the clock in the night; and upon the way, as we rode upon the camels, I demanded of one
of our company who did direct us the way:  he said that there was a Moor in our company which
was our guide; and I demanded of them how Tripolis and the wood bare one off the other, and
he said, "East-north-east and west-south-west."  And at midnight, or thereabouts, as I was
riding upon my camel, I fell asleep, and the guide and all the rest rode away from me, not
thinking but I had been among them.  When I awoke, and, finding myself alone, I durst not call
nor holloa, for fear lest the wild Moors should hear me--because they hold this opinion, that
in killing a Christian they do God good service--and musing with myself what were best for
me to do:  if I should return back to Tripolis without any wood or company I should be most
miserably used; therefore, of the two evils, rather I had to go forth to the losing of my life
than to turn back and trust to their mercy, fearing to be used as before I had seen others.
For, understanding by some of my company before how Tripolis and the said wood did lie one
off another, by the North Star I went forth at adventure, and, as God would have it, I came
right to the place where they were, even about an hour before day. There altogether we rested,
and gave our camels provender, and as soon as the day appeared we rode all into the wood; and
I, seeing no wood there but a stick here and a stick there, about the bigness of a man's arm,
growing in the sand, it caused me to marvel how so many camels should be loaded in that place.
The wood was juniper; we needed no axe nor edged tool to cut it, but plucked it up by strength
of hands, roots and all, which a man might easily do, and so gathered together a little at
one place, and so at another, and laded our camels, and came home about seven of the clock
that night following:  because I fell lame and my camel was tired, I left my wood in the way.
But the Moors of the country very craftily (perceiving their intent) gathered together a threescore
of horsemen and hid themselves behind the sandy hill, and when the Christians were come all
ashore, and passed by half a mile into the country, the Moors rode betwixt them and their boat,
and some of them pursued the Christians, and so they were all taken and brought to Tripolis,
from whence they had before escaped; and presently the king commanded that the foresaid Benedetto,
with one more of his company, should lose their ears, and the rest to be most cruelly beaten,
which was presently done.  This king had a son which was a ruler in an island called Gerbi,
whereunto arrived an English ship called the Green Dragon, of the which was master one M. Blonket,
who, having a very unhappy boy on that ship, and understanding that whosoever would turn Turk
should be well entertained of the king's son, this boy did run ashore and voluntarily turned
Turk.  Shortly after the king's son came to Tripolis to visit his father, and seeing our company,
he greatly fancied Richard Burges, our purser, and James Smith.  They were both young men,
therefore he was very desirous to have them to turn Turks; but they would not yield to his
desire, saying, "We are your father's slaves and as slaves we will serve him."  Then his father
the king sent for them, and asked them if they would turn Turks; and they said:  "If it please
your Highness, Christians we were born and so we will remain, and beseech the king that they
might not be enforced thereunto."  The king had there before in his house a son of a yeoman
of our Queen's guard, whom the king's son had enforced to turn Turk; his name was John Nelson.
Him the king caused to be brought to these young men, and then said unto them, "Will you not
bear this, your countryman, company, and be Turk as he is?" and they said that they would not
yield thereunto during life.  But it fell out that, within a month after, the king's son went
home to Gerbi again, being five score miles from Tripolis, and carried our two foresaid young
men with him, which were Richard Burges and James Smith.  And after their departure from us
they sent us a letter, signifying that there was no violence showed unto them as yet; yet within
three days after they were violently used, for that the king's son demanded of them again if
that they would turn Turk.  Then answered Richard Burges:  "A Christian I am, and so I will
remain." Then the king's son very angrily said unto him, "By Mahomet thou shalt presently be
made Turk!"  Then called he for his men and commanded them to make him Turk; and they did so,
and circumcised him, and would have had him speak the words that thereunto belonged; but he
answered them stoutly that he would not, and although they had put on him the habit of a Turk,
yet said he, "A Christian I was born, and so I will remain, though you force me to do otherwise."

And then he called for the other, and commanded him to be made Turk perforce also; but he was
very strong, for it was so much as eight of the king's son's men could do to hold him.  So
in the end they circumcised him and made him Turk.  Now, to pass over a little, and so to show
the manner of our deliverance out of that miserable captivity.

In May aforesaid, shortly after our apprehension, I wrote a letter into England unto my father,
dwelling in Evistoke in Devonshire, signifying unto him the whole estate of our calamities,
and I wrote also to Constantinople to the English ambassador, both which letters were faithfully
delivered.  But when my father had received my letter, and understood the truth of our mishap,
and the occasion thereof, and what had happened to the offenders, he certified the Right Honourable
the Earl of Bedford thereof, who in short space acquainted her Highness with the whole cause
thereof; and her Majesty, like a most merciful princess tendering her subjects, presently took
order for our deliverance.  And when they came to Tripolis they were well entertained, and
the first night they did lie in a captain's house in the town.  All our company that were in
Tripolis came that night for joy to Master Barton and the other commissioners to see them.
Then Master Barton said unto us, "Welcome, my good countrymen," and lovingly entertained us;
and at our departure from him he gave us two shillings, and said, "Serve God, for tomorrow
I hope you shall be as free as ever you were."  We all gave him thanks and so departed.  The
next day, in the morning very early, the king having intelligence of their coming, sent word
to the keeper that none of the Englishmen (meaning our company) should go to work. Then he
sent for Master Barton and the other commissioners, and demanded of the said Master Barton
his message.  The justice answered that the Great Turk, his sovereign, had sent them unto him,
signifying that he was informed that a certain English ship, called the Jesus, was by him the
said king confiscated about twelve months since, and now my said sovereign hath here sent his
especial commission by us unto you for the deliverance of the said ship and goods, and also
the free liberty and deliverance of the Englishmen of the said ship whom you have taken and
kept in captivity.  And further, the same justice said, I am authorised by my said sovereign
the Great Turk to see it done; and therefore I command you, by the virtue of this commission,
presently to make restitution of the premises or the value thereof.  And so did the justice
deliver unto the king the Great Turk's commission to the effect aforesaid, which commission
the king with all obedience received; and after the perusing of the same, he forthwith commanded
all the English captives to be brought before him, and then willed the keeper to strike off
all our irons.  Which done, the king said, "You Englishmen, for that you did offend the laws
of this place, by the same laws therefore some of your company were condemned to die, as you
know, and you to be perpetual captives during your lives; notwithstanding, seeing it hath pleased
my sovereign lord the Great Turk to pardon your said offences, and to give you your freedom
and liberty, behold, here I make delivery of you unto this English gentleman."  So he delivered
us all that were there, being thirteen in number, to Master Barton, who required also those
two young men which the king's son had taken with him.  Then the king answered that it was
against their law to deliver them, for that they were turned Turks; and, touching the ship
and goods, the king said that he had sold her, but would make restitution of the value, and
as much of the goods as came unto his hands.  And so the king arose and went to dinner, and
commanded a Jew to go with Master Barton and the other commissioners to show them their lodgings,
which was a house provided and appointed them by the said king.  And because I had the Italian
and Spanish tongues, by which there most traffic in that country is, Master Barton made me
his caterer, to buy his victuals for him and his company, and he delivered me money needful
for the same. Thus were we set at liberty the 28th day of April, 1585.

Now, to return to the king's plagues and punishments which Almighty God at his will and pleasure
sendeth upon men in the sight of the world, and likewise of the plagues that befell his children
and others aforesaid.  First, when we were made bondmen, being the second day of May, 1584,
the king had 300 captives, and before the month was expired there died of them of the plague
150.  And whereas there were twenty-six men of our company, of whom two were hanged and one
died the same day as we were made bondslaves, that present month there died nine more of our
company of the plague, and other two were forced to turn Turks as before rehearsed; and on
the 4th day of June next following, the king lost 150 camels which were taken from him by the
wild Moors; and on the 28th day of the said month of June one Geffrey Malteese, a renegado
of Malta, ran away to his country, and stowed a brigantine which the king had builded for to
take the Christians withal, and carried with him twelve Christians more which were the king's
captives. Afterwards about the 10th day of July next following, the king rode forth upon the
greatest and fairest mare that might be seen, as white as any swan; he had not ridden forty
paces from his house, but on a sudden the same mare fell down under him stark dead, and I with
six more were commanded to bury her, skin, shoes, and all, which we did. And about three months
after our delivery, Master Barton, with all the residue of his company, departed from Tripolis
to Zante in a vessel called a settea, of one Marcus Segoorus, who dwelt in Zante; and, after
our arrival at Zante, we remained fifteen days there aboard our vessel, before we could have
Platego (that is, leave to come ashore), because the plague was in that place from whence we
came, and about three days after we came ashore, thither came another settea of Marseilles,
bound for Constantinople.  Then did Master Barton and his company, with two more of our company,
ship themselves as passengers in the same settea and went to Constantinople.  But the other
nine of us that remained in Zante, about three months after, shipped ourselves in a ship of
the said Marcus Segoorus, which came to Zante, and was bound for England. In which three months
the soldiers of Tripolis killed the said king; and then the king's son, according to the custom
there, went to Constantinople, to surrender up all his father's treasure, goods, captives,
and concubines unto the Great Turk, and took with him our said purser Richard Burges, and James
Smith, and also the other two Englishmen which he the king's son had enforced to become Turks
as is aforesaid.  And they, the said Englishmen, finding now some opportunity, concluded with
the Christian captives which were going with them unto Constantinople, being in number about
150, to kill the king's son and all the Turks which were aboard of the galley, and privily
the said Englishmen conveyed unto the said Christian captives weapons for that purpose.  And
when they came into the main sea, towards Constantinople (upon the faithful promise of the
said Christian captives) these four Englishmen leapt suddenly into the crossia--that is, into
the middest of the galley, where the cannon lieth--and with their swords drawn, did fight against
all the foresaid Turks, and for want of help of the said Christian captives, who falsely brake
their promises, the said Master Blonket's boy was killed and the said James Smith, and our
purser Richard Burges, and the other Englishmen were taken and bound into chains, to be hanged
at their arrival in Constantinople.  And, as the Lord's will was, about two days after, passing
through the Gulf of Venice, at an island called Cephalonia, they met with two of the Duke of
Venice, his galleys, which took that galley, and killed the king's son and his mother, and
all the Turks that were there, in number 150, and they saved the Christian captives; and would
have killed the two Englishmen, because they were circumcised and become Turks, had not the
other Christian captives excused them, saying that they were enforced to be Turks by the king's
son, and showed the Venetians how they did enterprise at sea to fight against all the Turks,
and that their two fellows were slain in that fight. Then the Venetians saved them, and they,
with all the residue of the said captives, had their liberty, which were in number 150 or thereabouts,
and the said galley and all the Turks' treasure was confiscated to the use of the State of
Venice.  And from thence our two Englishmen travelled homeward by land, and in this meantime
we had one more of our company which died in Zante, and afterwards the other eight shipped
themselves at Zante in a ship of the said Marcus Segoorus which was bound for England.  And
before we departed thence, there arrived the Ascension and the George Bonaventure of London,
in Cephalonia, in a harbour there called Arrogostoria, whose merchants agreed with the merchants
of our ship, and so laded all the merchandise of our ship into the said ships of London, who
took us eight also in as passengers, and so we came home.  And within two months after our
arrival at London our said purser Richard Burges, and his fellow, came home also, for the which
we are bound to praise Almighty God during our lives, and, as duty bindeth us, to pray for
the preservation of our most gracious Queen, for the great care her Majesty had over us, her
poor subjects, in seeking and procuring of our deliverance aforesaid, and also for her Honourable
Privy Council; and I especially for the prosperity and good estate of the house of the late
deceased, the Right Honourable the Earl of Bedford, whose honour I must confess most diligently,
at the suit of my father now departed, travailed herein--for the which I rest continually bounden
to him, whose soul I doubt not but already is in the heavens in joy, with the Almighty, unto
which place He vouchsafed to bring us all, that for our sins suffered most vile and shameful
death upon the cross, there to live perpetually world without end. Amen.

THE QUEEN'S LETTERS TO THE TURK, 1584, FOR THE RESTITUTION OF THE SHIP, CALLED THE JESUS, AND
THE ENGLISH CAPTIVES DETAINED IN TRIPOLIS, IN BARBARY, AND FOR CERTAIN OTHER PRISONERS IN ALGIERS.

Most noble and puissant Emperor, about two years now past, we wrote unto your Imperial Majesty
that our well-beloved servant, William Harebrown, a man of great reputation and honour, might
be received under your high authority for our ambassador in Constantinople and other places,
under the obedience of your Empire of Mussulman; and also that the Englishmen being our subjects
might exercise intercourse and merchandise in all those provinces no less freely than the French,
Polonians, Venetians, Germans, and other your confederates, which travel through divers of
the East parts endeavouring that by mutual traffic the East may be joined and knit to the West.

Which privileges, when as your most puissant Majesty by your letters and under your dispensation
most liberally and favourably granted to our subjects of England, we could no less do but in
that respect give you as great thanks as our heart could conceive, trusting that it will come
to pass that this order of traffic so well ordained will bring with itself most great profits
and commodities to both sides, as well to the parties subject to your Empire as to the provinces
of our Kingdom.

Which thing, that it may be done in plain and effectual manner, whereas some of our subjects
of late at Tripolis in Barbary, and at Algiers, were by the inhabitants of those places (being
perhaps ignorant of your pleasure) evil intreated and grievously vexed, we do friendly and
lovingly desire your Imperial Majesty that you will understand their causes by our ambassador,
and afterward give commandment to the lieutenants and presidents of those provinces, that our
people may henceforth freely, without any violence or injury, travel and do their business
in those places.

And we again with all endeavour shall study to perform all those things which we shall in any
wise understand to be acceptable to your Imperial Majesty, which God, the only Maker of the
World, Most Best and Most Great, long keep in health and flourishing.  Given in our Palace
at London, the 5th day of the month of September, in the year of Jesus Christ our Saviour 1584,
and of our reign the twenty-sixth.

THE COMMANDMENT OBTAINED OF THE GRAND SIGNIOR BY HER MAJESTY'S AMBASSADOR, FOR THE QUIET PASSING
OF HER SUBJECTS TO AND FROM HIS DOMINIONS, SENT IN ANNO 1584 TO THE VICEROYS, ALGIERS, TUNIS,
AND TRIPOLIS IN BARBARY.

To our Beglerbeg of Algiers.  We therefore command thee that upon sight hereof then do not
permit any such matter in no sort whatsoever, but suffer the said Englishmen to pass in peace,
according to the tenor of our commandment given, without any disturbance or let by any means
upon the way, although that, meeting with thy galleys, and not knowing them afar off, they,
taking them for enemies, should shoot at them, yet shall ye not suffer them to hurt them therefor,
but quietly to pass.  Wherefore look thou, that they may have right according to our privilege
given them, and finding any that absenteth himself and will not obey this our commandment,
presently certify us to our porch, that we may give order for his punishment; and with reverence
give faithful credit to this our commandment, which having read, thou shalt again return it
unto them that present it.  From our palace in Constantinople, the prime of June, 1584.  By
these our Highness's letters we certify thee that the Right Honourable William Harebrowne,
Ambassador in our most famous porch for the most excellent Queen's Majesty of England, in person
and by letters hath certified our Highness that a certain ship, with all her furniture and
artillery, worth two thousand ducats, arriving in the port of Tripolis, and discharged of her
lading and merchandise, paid our custom according to order, and again the merchants laded their
ship with oil, which by constraint they were enforced to buy of you, and having answered in
like manner the custom for the same, determined to depart.  A Frenchman, assistant to the merchant,
unknown to the Englishmen, carried away with him another Frenchman indebted to a certain Moor
in four hundred ducats, and by force caused the Englishmen and ship to depart, who, neither
suspecting fraud nor deceit, hoisted sails.  In the meantime, this man, whose debtor the Frenchman
had stolen away, went to the Pasha with a supplication, by whose means, and force of the Castle,
the Englishmen were constrained to return into the port, where the Frenchman, author of the
evil, with the master of the ship, an Englishman, innocent of the crime, were hanged, and five-and-twenty
Englishmen cast into prison, of whom, through famine and thirst, and stink of the prison, eleven
died, and the rest were like to die.  Further, it was signified to our Majesty also that the
merchandise and other goods with the ship were worth seven thousand six hundred ducats.  Which
things, if they be so, this is our commandment, which was granted and given by our Majesty,
that the English ship, and all the merchandise, and whatsoever else was taken away, be wholly
restored, and that the Englishmen be let go free, and suffered to return into their country.
Wherefore, when this our commandment shall come unto thee, we straightly command that the foresaid
business be diligently looked unto and discharged.  And if it be so that a Frenchman, and no
Englishman, hath done this craft and wickedness, unknown to the Englishmen, and, as author
of the wickedness, is punished, and that the Englishmen committed nothing against the peace
and league, or their articles; also, if they paid custom according to order, it is against
law, custom of countries, and their privilege, to hinder or hurt them.  Neither is it meet
their ship, merchandise, and all their goods taken should be withholden.  We will, therefore,
that the English ship, merchandise, and all other their goods, without exception, be restored
to the Englishmen; also, that the men be let go free, and, if they will, let none hinder them
to return peaceably into their country; do not commit that they another time complain of this
matter, and how this business is despatched certify us at our most famous porch.  Dated in
the city of Constantinople, in the nine hundred and ninety-second year of Mahomet, and in the
end of the month of October, and the year of Jesus 1584.

A LETTER OF MASTER WILLIAM HAREBROWNE, THE ENGLISH AMBASSADOR, LEDGER IN CONSTANTINOPLE, TO
THE PASHA ROMADAN, THE BEGLERBEG OF TRIPOLIS, IN BARBARY, FOR THE RESTORING OF AN ENGLISH SHIP,
CALLED THE JESUS, WITH GOODS AND MEN DETAINED AS SLAVES, 1585.

Right Honourable Lord, it hath been signified unto us by divers letters, what hath fallen out
concerning a certain ship of ours, called the Jesus, into which, for the help of Richard Skegs,
one of our merchants in the same, now deceased, there was admitted a certain Frenchman, called
Romaine Sonnings, which for his ill behaviour, according to his deserts, seeking to carry away
with him another Frenchman, which was indebted to certain of your people, without paying his
creditors, was hanged by sentence of justice, together with Andrew Dier, the master of the
said ship, who, simply and without fraud, giving credit to the said Frenchman, without any
knowledge of this evil fact, did not return when he was commanded by your honourable lordship.
The death of the said lewd Frenchman we approve as a thing well done, but contrariwise, whereas
your lordship hath confiscated the said ship, with the goods therein, and hath made slaves
of the mariners, as a thing altogether contrary to the privileges of the Grand Signior, granted
four years since, and confirmed by us, on the behalf of the most excellent the Queen's Majesty
of England, our mistress, and altogether contrary to the league of the said Grand Signior,
who, being fully informed of the aforesaid cause, hath granted unto us his royal commandment
of restitution, which we send unto your honourable lordship by the present bearer, Edward Barton,
our secretary, and Mahomet Beg, one of the justices of his stately court, with other letters
of the most excellent Admiral and most valiant captain of the sea, requiring your most honourable
lordship, as well on the behalf of the Grand Signior as of the Queen's most Excellent Majesty,
my mistress, that the men, oils, ship, furniture, money, and all other goods whatsoever, by
your lordship and your order taken from our men, be restored unto this my secretary freely,
without delay, as the Grand Signior of his goodness hath granted unto us, especially in regard
that the same oils were bought by the commandment of our Queen's most Excellent Majesty for
the provision of her Court.  Which if you perform not, we protest by these our letters against
you, that you are the cause of all the inconveniences which may ensue upon this occasion, as
the author thereof contrary to the holy league sworn by both our princes, as by the privileges,
which this our servant will show you, may appear.  For the seeing of which league performed,
we remain here as Ledger in this stately court, and by this means you shall answer in another
world unto God alone, and in this world unto the Grand Signior, for this heinous sin committed
by you against so many poor souls, which by this your cruelty are in part dead, and in part
detained by you in most miserable captivity.  Contrariwise, if it shall please you to avoid
this mischief, and to remain in the favour of Almighty God and of our princes, you shall friendly
fulfil this our just demand (as it behoveth you to show yourself a prudent governor and faithful
servant unto your lord), and the same may turn to your great honour and profit by the trade
of merchandise, which our men in time to come may use in that government of yours, which, generally,
as well those poor men as all others which you shall meet at the sea, ought to be, according
to the commandment of the Grand Signior, friendly entertained and received of your honourable
lordship; and we will not fail in the duties of a special friend whatsoever you shall have
occasion to use us as we desire.  Almighty God grant unto your lordship (in the fulfilling
of this our just request, whereby we may be delivered from further trouble in this matter and
yourself from further displeasure) all true felicity and increase of honour.  Given in our
palace from Capamat, in Pera, the 15th of January, 1585.

A BRIEF EXTRACT SPECIFYING THE CERTAIN DAILY PAYMENTS, ANSWERED QUARTERLY IN TIME OF PEACE,
BY THE GRAND SIGNIOR, OUT OF HIS TREASURY, TO THE OFFICERS OF HIS SERAGLIO OR COURT, SUCCESSIVELY
IN DEGREES; COLLECTED IN A YEARLY TOTAL SUM AS FOLLOWETH:

For his own diet every day, one thousand and one aspers, according to a former custom received
from his ancestors; notwithstanding that otherwise his diurnal expense is very much, and not
certainly known, which sum maketh sterling money by the year, two thousand one hundred and
ninety-two pounds, three shillings, and eightpence.

The forty-five thousand janisaries, reparted into sundry places of his dominions, at five aspers
a day, amounteth by the year, five hundred fourscore and eleven thousand and three hundred pounds.

The azamoglans' tribute children far surmount that number, for that they are collected from
among the Christians, from whom between the years of five and twelve they are pulled away yearly
perforce; whereof I suppose those in service may be equal in number with the janisaries abovesaid,
at three aspers a day, one with another, which is two hundred fourscore and fifteen thousand
five hundred and fifty pounds.

The five Pashas whereof the Viceroy is supreme, at one thousand aspers the day, besides their
yearly revenues, amounteth sterling by the year, ten thousand nine hundred and fifty pounds.

The five Beglerbegs, chief presidents of Greece, Hungary, and Slavonia, being in Europe, in
Anatolia, and Carmania of Asia, at one thousand aspers the day; as also to eighteen other governors
of provinces at five hundred aspers the day, amounteth by the year thirty thousand five hundred
and threescore pounds.

The Pasha, admiral of the sea, one thousand aspers the day, two thousand one hundred fourscore
and ten thousand pounds.

The Aga of the janisaries, general of the footmen, five hundred aspers the day, and maketh
by the year in sterling money one thousand fourscore and fifteen pounds.

The Imbrahur Pasha, master of his horse, one hundred and fifty aspers the day, in sterling
money three hundred and eight and twenty pounds.

The chief esquire under him, one hundred and fifty aspers, is three hundred and eight and twenty
pounds.

The Agas of the Spahi, captains of the horsemen, five at one hundred and fifty aspers to either
of them, maketh sterling one thousand nine hundred threescore and eleven pounds.

The Capagi Pashas, head porters, four, one hundred and fifty aspers to each, and maketh out
in sterling money by the year, one thousand three hundred and fourteen pounds.

The Sisinghir Pasha, controller of the household, one hundred and twenty aspers the day, and
maketh out in sterling money by the year, two hundred threescore and two pounds, sixteen shillings.

The Chiaus Pasha, captain of the pensioners, one hundred and twenty aspers the day, and amounteth
to, by the year, in sterling money, two hundred threescore and two pounds, sixteen shillings.

The Solach Bassi, captain of his guard, one hundred and twenty aspers, two hundred threescore
and two pounds, sixteen shillings.

The forty physicians under him, to each forty aspers is three thousand eight hundred threescore
and six pounds, sixteen shillings.

The Mustafaracas, spearmen attending on his person, in number 500, to either threescore aspers,
and maketh sterling threescore and five thousand and seven hundred pounds.

The Cisingeri, gentlemen attending upon his diet, forty, at forty aspers each of them, and
amounteth to sterling by the year, three thousand five hundred and four pounds.

The Spahi, men of arms of the Court and the city, ten thousand, at twenty-five aspers, and
maketh of English money, five hundred forty and seven thousand and five hundred pounds.

The Seiefir, servitors in his esquire or stable, five hundred, at two aspers, and maketh sterling
money, two thousand one hundred fourscore and ten pounds.

The Saefi, saddlers and bit-makers, five hundred, at seven aspers, seven thousand six hundred
threescore and five pounds.

The Capergi, carriers upon mules, two hundred, at five aspers, two thousand one hundred fourscore
and ten pounds.

The Ginegi, carriers upon camels, one thousand five hundred, at eight aspers, and amounteth
in sterling money to twenty-six thousand two hundred and fourscore pounds.

The Reiz, or captains of the galleys, three hundred, at ten aspers, and amounteth in English
money, by the year, the sum of six thousand five hundred threescore and ten pounds.

The Alechingi, masters of the said galleys, three hundred, at seven aspers, four thousand five
hundred fourscore and nineteen pounds.

The Getti, boatswains thereof, three hundred, at six aspers, is three thousand nine hundred
forty and two pounds.

The Oda Bassi, pursers, three hundred, at five aspers, maketh three thousand two hundred and
fourscore pounds.

The Azappi, soldiers, two thousand six hundred, at four aspers, whereof the five hundred do
continually keep the galleys, two-and-twenty thousand seven hundred fourscore and six pounds.

The Mariers Bassi, masters over the shipwrights and caulkers of the navy, nine, at twenty aspers
the piece, amounteth to three thousand fourscore and four pounds, four shillings.

The Master Dassi, shipwrights and caulkers, one thousand, at fourteen aspers, and amounteth
to, by the year, thirty thousand six hundred and threescore pounds.

Summa totalis of daily payments amounteth by the year sterling one million nine hundred threescore
eight thousand seven hundred and thirtyfive pounds, nineteen shillings, and eight pence, answered
quarterly without default with the sum of four hundred fourscore twelve thousand one hundred
fourscore and four pounds, four shillings, and eleven pence, and is for every day five thousand
three hundred fourscore and thirteen pounds, fifteen shillings, and ten pence.

ANNUITIES OF LANDS NEVER IMPROVED FIVE TIMES MORE IN VALUE THAN THEIR SUMS MENTIONED, GIVEN
BY THE SAID GRAND SIGNIOR AS FOLLOWETH:

To the Viceroy for his timar or annuity, 60,000 gold ducats.

To the second pasha for his annuity, 50,000 ducats.

To the third pasha for his annuity, 40,000 ducats.

To the fourth pasha for his annuity, 30,000 ducats.

To the fifth pasha for his annuity, 20,000 ducats.

To the captain of the janisaries, 20,000 ducats.

To the Jou Merhor Bassi, master of his horse, 15,000 ducats.

To the captain of the pensioners, 10,000 ducats.

To the captain of his guard, 5,000 ducats.

Summa totalis, 90,000 livres sterling.

THE TURK'S CHIEF OFFICERS.

The Viceroy is high treasurer, notwithstanding that under him be three sub-treasurers, called
Testaders, which be accountable to him of the receipts out of Europe, Asia, and Africa, save
their yearly annuity of lands.

The Lord Chancellor is called Nissangi Pasha, who sealeth with a certain proper character such
licenses, safe-conducts, passports, especial grants, etc., as proceed from the Grand Signior;
notwithstanding all letters to foreign princes so firmed be after enclosed in a bag and sealed
by the Grand Signior, with a signet which he ordinarily weareth about his neck, credited of
them to have been of ancient appertaining to King Solomon the Wise.

The Admiral giveth his voice in the election of all begies, captains of islands (to whom he
giveth their charge), as also appointeth the sub-pashas, bailies or constables over cities
and towns upon the sea-coasts about Constantinople and in the Archipelago, whereof he reapeth
great profit.

The Sub-Bassi of Pera payeth him nearly fifteen thousand ducats, and so likewise either of
the others, according as they are placed.

The Resistop serveth in office to the Viceroy and Chancellor as secretary, and so likewise
doth the Cogy, Master of the Rolls, before which two pass all writings presented to or granted
by the said Viceroy and Chancellor, offices of especial credit and like profit, moreover rewarded
with annuities of lands.

There be also two chief judges named Ladies Lisguire, the one over Europe and the other over
Asia and Africa, which in court do sit on the bench at the left hand of the pashas.  These
sell all offices to the under-judges of the land called Cadies, whereof is one in every city
or town, before whom all matters of controversy are by judgment decided, as also penalties
and corrections for crimes ordained to be executed upon the offenders by the Sub-bassi.

THE NUMBER OF SOLDIERS CONTINUALLY ATTENDING UPON THE BEGLERBEGS, THE GOVERNORS OF PROVINCES,
AND SANGIACKS, AND THEIR PETTY CAPTAINS MAINTAINED OF THESE PROVINCES.

  The Beglerbegs of . . .               Persons.

  Graecia                               40,000
  Buda                                  15,000
  Slavonia                              15,000
  Anatolia                              15,000
  Caramania                             15,000
  Armenia                               18,000
  Persia                                20,000
  Usdrum                                15,000
  Chirusta                              15,000
  Caraemiti                             30,000
  Giersul                               32,000
  Bagdad                                25,000
  Balsara                               22,000
  Lassaija                              17,000
  Aleppo                                25,000
  Damascus                              17,000
  Cairo                                 12,000
  Abes                                  12,000
  Mecca                                  8,000
  Cyprus                                18,000
  Tunis, in Barbary                      8,000
  Tripolis, in Syria                     8,000
  Algiers                               40,000

Whose sangiacks and petty captains be three hundred and sixty-eight,
every of which retaining continually in pay from five hundred to two
hundred soldiers, may be, one with another, at least three hundred
thousand persons.
  Killergi Bassi, steward.
  Saraiaga, controller.
  Ebietaraga, groom of the stool.

There be many other meaner offices, which I esteem superfluous to write.

THE TURK'S YEARLY REVENUE.

The Grand Signior's annual revenue is said to be fourteen millions and a half of golden ducats,
which is sterling five millions eightscore thousand pounds.

Moreover, in time of war he exacteth manifold sums, for maintenance of his army and navy, of
the said Christians.

The Emperor payeth him yearly tribute for Hungary threescore thousand dollars, which is sterling
thirteen thousand pounds, besides presents to the Viceroy and pashas, which are said to surmount
twenty thousand dollars.

AMBASSADORS' ALLOWANCES.

The ambassador of the Emperor is allowed one thousand aspers the day.

The ambassador of the French king heretofore enjoyed the like; but of late years, by means
of displeasure conceived by Mahomet, then Viceroy, it was reduced to six crowns the day, besides
the provision of his esquire of stable.

The ambassador of Poland and for the State of Venice are not Ledgers as these two abovesaid.
The said Polack is allowed twelve French crowns the day during his abode, which may be for
a month.  Very seldom do the State of Venice send any ambassador otherwise than enforced of
urgent necessity; but instead thereof keep there their agent, president over their merchants,
of them termed a bailiff, who hath no allowance of the Grand Signior, although his port and
state is in manner as magnifical as the other aforesaid ambassadors'.  The Spanish ambassador
was equal with others in janisaries; but for so much as he would not, according to custom,
follow the list of other ambassadors in making presents to the Grand Signior, he had no allowance.
His abode there was three years, at the end whereof, having concluded a truce for six years,
taking place from his first coming in November last past, he was never admitted to the presence
of the Grand Signior.

                         -----

A TRUE REPORT OF A WORTHY FIGHT, PERFORMED IN THE VOYAGE FROM TURKEY BY FIVE SHIPS OF LONDON,
AGAINST ELEVEN GALLEYS AND TWO FRIGATES OF THE KING OF SPAIN'S, AT PANTALAREA, WITHIN THE STRAITS,
ANNO 1586.  WRITTEN BY PHILIP JONES.

The merchants of London, being of the incorporation for the Turkey trade, having received intelligences
and advertisements from time to time that the King of Spain, grudging at the prosperity of
this kingdom, had not only of late arrested all English ships, bodies, and goods in Spain,
but also, maligning the quiet traffic which they used, to and in the dominions and provinces
under the obedience of the Great Turk, had given orders to the captains of his galleys in the
Levant to hinder the passage of all English ships, and to endeavour by their best means to
intercept, take, and spoil them, their persons and goods; they hereupon thought it their best
course to set out their fleet for Turkey in such strength and ability for their defence that
the purpose of their Spanish enemy might the better be prevented, and the voyage accomplished
with greater security to the men and ships.  For which cause, five tall and stout ships appertaining
to London, and intending only a merchant's voyage, were provided and furnished with all things
belonging to the seas, the names whereof were these:--

  1.  The Merchant Royal, a very brave and goodly ship, and of great
      report.
  2.  The Toby.
  3.  The Edward Bonaventure.
  4.  The William and John.
  5.  The Susan.

These five departing from the coast of England in the month of November, 1585, kept together
as one fleet till they came as high as the isle of Sicily, within the Levant.  And there, according
to the order and direction of the voyage, each ship began to take leave of the rest, and to
separate himself, setting his course for the particular port whereunto he was bound--one for
Tripolis in Syria, another for Constantinople, the chief city of the Turk's empire, situated
upon the coast of Roumelia, called of old Thracia, and the rest to those places whereunto they
were privately appointed.  But before they divided themselves, they altogether consulted of
and about a certain and special place for their meeting again after the lading of their goods
at their several ports.  And in conclusion, the general agreement was to meet at Zante, an
island near to the main continent of the west part of Morea, well known to all the pilots,
and thought to be the fittest place for their rendezvous; concerning which meeting it was also
covenanted on each side and promised that whatsoever ship of these five should first arrive
at Zante, should there stay and expect the coming of the rest of the fleet for the space of
twenty days.  This being done, each man made his best haste, according as wind and weather
would serve him, to fulfil his course and to despatch his business; and no need was there to
admonish or encourage any man, seeing no time was ill-spent nor opportunity omitted on any
side in the performance of each man's duty, according to his place.  The first next after the
Toby was the Royal Merchant, which, together with the William and John, came from Tripolis
in Syria, and arrived in Zante within the compass of the aforesaid time limited.  These ships,
in token of the joy on all parts conceived for their happy meeting, spared not the discharging
of their ordnance, the sounding of drums and trumpets, the spreading of ensigns, with other
warlike and joyful behaviours, expressing by these outward signs the inward gladness of their
minds, being all as ready to join together in mutual consent to resist the cruel enemy, as
now in sporting manner they made mirth and pastime among themselves.  These three had not been
long in the haven but the Edward Bonaventure, together with the Susan her consort, were come
from Venice with their lading, the sight of whom increased the joy of the rest, and they, no
less glad of the presence of the others, saluted them in most friendly and kind sort, according
to the manner of the seas.  And whereas some of these ships stood at that instant in some want
of victuals, they were all content to stay in the port till the necessities of each ship were
supplied, and nothing wanted to set out for their return.

In this port of Zante the news was fresh and current of two several armies and fleets, provided
by the King of Spain, and lying in wait to intercept them:  the one consisting of thirty strong
galleys, so well appointed in all respects for the war that no necessary thing wanted, and
this fleet hovered about the Straits of Gibraltar.  The other army had in it twenty galleys,
whereof some were of Sicily and some of the island of Malta, under the charge and government
of John Andreas Dorea, a captain of name serving the King of Spain.  These two divers and strong
fleets waited and attended in the seas for none but the English ships, and no doubt made their
account and sure reckoning that not a ship should escape their fury.  And the opinion also
of the inhabitants of the isle of Zante was, that in respect of the number of galleys in both
these armies having received such strait commandment from the king, our ships and men being
but few and little in comparison of them, it was a thing in human reason impossible that we
should pass either without spoiling, if we resisted, or without composition at the least, and
acknowledgment of duty to the Spanish king.

But it was neither the report of the attendance of these armies, nor the opinions of the people,
nor anything else, that could daunt or dismay the courage of our men, who, grounding themselves
upon the goodness of their cause and the promise of God to be delivered from such as without
reason sought their destruction, carried resolute minds notwithstanding all impediments to
adventure through the seas, and to finish their navigation maugre the beards of the Spanish
soldiers.  But lest they should seem too careless and too secure of their estate, and by laying
the whole and entire burden of their safety upon God's Providence should foolishly presume
altogether of His help, and neglect the means which was put into their hands, they failed not
to enter into counsel among themselves and to deliberate advisedly for their best defence.
And in the end, with general consent, the Merchant Royal was appointed Admiral of the fleet,
and the Toby Vice-Admiral, by whose orders the rest promised to be directed, and each ship
vowed not to break from another whatsoever extremity should fall out, but to stand to it to
the death, for the honour of their country and the frustrating of the hope of the ambitious
and proud enemy.

Thus in good order they left Zante and the Castle of Grecia, and committed themselves again
to the seas, and proceeded in their course and voyage in quietness, without sight of any enemy
till they came near to Pantalarea, an island so called betwixt Sicily and the coast of Africa;
into sight whereof they came the 13th day of July, 1586.  And the same day, in the morning,
about seven of the clock, they descried thirteen sails in number, which were of the galleys
lying in wait of purpose for them in and about that place.  As soon as the English ships had
spied them, they by-and-bye, according to a common order, made themselves ready for a fight,
laid out their ordnance, scoured, charged, and primed them, displayed their ensigns, and left
nothing undone to arm themselves thoroughly.  In the meantime, the galleys more and more approached
the ships, and in their banners there appeared the arms of the isles of Sicily and Malta, being
all as then in the service and pay of the Spaniard.  Immediately both the Admirals of the galleys
sent from each of them a frigate to the Admiral of our English ships, which being come near
them, the Sicilian frigate first hailed them, and demanded of them whence they were; they answered
that they were of England, the arms whereof appeared in their colours.  With that away she
went; and up came towards them the other frigate of Malta; and she in like sort hailed the
Admiral, and would needs know whence they were and where they had been.  Our Englishmen in
the Admiral, not disdaining an answer, told them that they were of England, merchants of London,
had been in Turkey, and were now returning home; and to be requited in this case, they also
demanded of the frigate whence she and the rest of the galleys were.  The messenger answered,
"We are of Malta, and for mine own part, my name is Cavalero.  These galleys are in service
and pay to the King of Spain, under the conduct of Don Pedro de Leiva, a nobleman of Spain
who hath been commanded hither by the king with this present force and army of purpose to intercept
you.  You shall therefore," quoth he, "do well to repair to him to know his pleasure; he is
a nobleman of good behaviour and courtesy, and means you no ill."  The captain of the English
Admiral, whose name was Master Edward Wilkinson, now one of the six masters of Her Majesty's
Royal Navy, replied and said, "We purpose not at this time to make trial of Don Pedro his courtesy,
whereof we are suspicious and doubtful, and not without good cause;" using withal good words
to the messenger, and willing him to come aboard him, promising security and good usage, that
thereby he might the better know the Spaniard's mind.  Whereupon he indeed left his frigate
and came aboard him, whom he entertained in friendly sort, and caused a cup of wine to be drawn
for him, which he took, and began, with his cap in his hand and with reverent terms, to drink
to the health of the Queen of England, speaking very honourably of Her Majesty, and giving
good speeches of the courteous usage and entertainment that he himself had received in London
at the time that the Duke of Alencon, brother to the late French king, was last in England.
And after he had well drunk, he took his leave, speaking well of the sufficiency and goodness
of our ships, and especially of the Merchant Royal, which he confessed to have seen before,
riding in the Thames near London.  He was no sooner come to Don Pedro de Leiva, the Spanish
General, but he was sent off again, and returned to the English Admiral, saying that the pleasure
of the General was this, that either their captains, masters, and pursers should come to him
with speed, or else he would set upon them, and either take them or sink them.  The reply was
made by Master Wilkinson aforesaid that not a man should come to him; and for the brag and
threat of Don Pedro, it was not that Spanish bravado that should make them yield a jot to their
hindrance, but they were as ready to make resistance as he to offer an injury. Whereupon Cavalero
the messenger left bragging, and began to persuade them in quiet sort and with many words;
but all his labour was to no purpose, and as his threat did nothing terrify them, so his persuasion
did nothing move them to do that which he required.  At the last he entreated to have the merchant
of the Admiral carried by him as a messenger to the General, that so he might be satisfied
and assured of their minds by one of their own company.  But Master Wilkinson would agree to
no such thing; although Richard Rowit, the merchant himself, seemed willing to be employed
in that message, and laboured by reasonable persuasions to induce Master Wilkinson to grant
it--as hoping to be an occasion by his presence and discreet answers to satisfy the General,
and thereby to save the effusion of Christian blood, if it should grow to a battle.  And he
seemed so much the more willing to be sent, by how much deeper the oaths and protestations
of this Cavalero were, that he would (as he was a true knight and a soldier) deliver him back
again in safety to his company.  Albeit, Master Wilkinson, who, by his long experience, had
received sufficient trial of Spanish inconstancy and perjury, wished him in no case to put
his life and liberty in hazard upon a Spaniard's oath; but at last, upon much entreaty, he
yielded to let him go to the General, thinking indeed that good speeches and answers of reason
would have contented him, whereas, otherwise, refusal to do so might peradventure have provoked
the more discontentment.

Master Rowit, therefore, passing to the Spanish General, the rest of the galleys, having espied
him, thought, indeed, that the English were rather determined to yield than to fight, and therefore
came flocking about the frigate, every man crying out, "Que nuevas? que nuevas?  Have these
Englishmen yielded?"  The frigate answered, "Not so; they neither have nor purpose to yield.
Only they have sent a man of their company to speak with our General."  And being come to the
galley wherein he was, he showed himself to Master Rowit in his armour, his guard of soldiers
attending upon him, in armour also, and began to speak very proudly in this sort:  "Thou Englishman,
from whence is your fleet? Why stand ye aloof off? know ye not your duty to the Catholic king,
whose person I here represent?  Where are your bills of lading, your letters, passports, and
the chief of your men?  Think ye my attendance in these seas to be in vain, or my person to
no purpose?  Let all these things be done out of hand, as I command, upon pain of my further
displeasure, and the spoil of you all."  These words of the Spanish General were not so outrageously
pronounced, as they were mildly answered by Master Rowit, who told him that they were all merchantmen,
using traffic in honest sort, and seeking to pass quietly, if they were not urged further than
reason.  As for the King of Spain, he thought (for his part) that there was amity betwixt him
and his Sovereign, the Queen of England, so that neither he nor his officers should go about
to offer any such injury to English merchants, who, as they were far from giving offence to
any man, so they would be loth to take an abuse at the hands of any, or sit down to their loss,
where their ability was able to make defence.  And as touching his commandment aforesaid for
the acknowledging of duty in such particular sort, he told him that, where there was no duty
owing there none should be performed, assuring him that their whole company and ships in general
stood resolutely upon the negative, and would not yield to any such unreasonable demand, joined
with such imperious and absolute manner of commanding.  "Why, then," said he, "if they will
neither come to yield, nor show obedience to me in the name of my king, I will either sink
them or bring them to harbour; and so tell them from me."  With that the frigate came away
with Master Rowit, and brought him aboard to the English Admiral again, according to promise,
who was no sooner entered in but by-and-bye defiance was sounded on both sides.  The Spaniards
hewed off the noses of the galleys, that nothing might hinder the level of the shot; and the
English, on the other side, courageously prepared themselves to the combat, every man, according
to his room, bent to perform his office with alacrity and diligence.  And although our men
performed their parts with singular valour, according to their strength, insomuch that the
enemy, as amazed therewith, would oftentimes pause and stay, and consult what was best to be
done, yet they ceased not in the midst of their business to make prayer to Almighty God, the
revenger of all evils and the giver of victories, that it would please Him to assist them in
this good quarrel of theirs, in defending themselves against so proud a tyrant, to teach their
hands to war and their fingers to fight, that the glory of the victory might redound to His
name, and to the honour of true religion, which the insolent enemy sought so much to overthrow.
Contrarily, the foolish Spaniards, they cried out, according to their manner, not to God, but
to our Lady (as they term the Virgin Mary) saying, "Oh, Lady, help!  Oh, blessed Lady, give
us the victory, and the honour thereof shall be thine."  Thus with blows and prayers on both
sides, the fight continued furious and sharp, and doubtful a long time to which part the victory
would incline, till at last the Admiral of the galleys of Sicily began to warp from the fight,
and to hold up her side for fear of sinking, and after her went also two others in like case,
whom all the sort of them enclosed, labouring by all their means to keep them above water,
being ready by the force of English shot which they had received to perish in the seas.  And
what slaughter was done among the Spaniards the English were uncertain, but by a probable conjecture
apparent afar off they supposed their loss was so great that they wanted men to continue the
charging of their pieces; whereupon with shame and dishonour, after five hours spent in the
battle, they withdrew themselves.  And coming as high as Algiers, a port town upon the coast
of Barbary, they made for it, of purpose to refresh themselves after their weariness, and to
take in such supply of fresh water and victuals as they needed.  They were no sooner entered
into the port but immediately the king thereof sent a messenger to the ships to know what they
were.  With which messenger the chief master of every ship repaired to the king, and acquainted
him not only with the state of their ships in respect of merchandise, but with the late fight
which they had passed with the Spanish galleys, reporting every particular circumstance in
word as it fell out in action; whereof the said king showed himself marvellous glad, entertaining
them in the best sort, and promising abundant relief of all their wants; making general proclamation
in the city, upon pain of death, that no man, of what degree or state soever he were, should
presume either to hinder them in their affairs or to offer them any manner of injury in body
or goods; by virtue whereof they despatched all things in excellent good sort with all favour
and peaceableness.  Only such prisoners and captives of the Spaniards as were in the city,
seeing the good usage which they received, and hearing also what service they had performed
against the foresaid galleys, grudged exceedingly against them, and sought as much as they
could to practise some mischief against them.  The English company, hearing of it, acquainted
the king of the fact; who immediately sent both for the party that had received the wound and
the offender also, and caused an executioner, in the presence of himself and the English, to
chastise the slave even to death, which was performed, to the end that no man should presume
to commit the like part or to do anything in contempt of his royal commandment.

The English, having received this good justice at the king's hands, and all other things that
they wanted or could crave for the furnishing of their ships, took their leave of him, and
of the rest of their friends that were resident in Algiers, and put out to sea, looking to
meet with the second army of the Spanish king, which waited for them about the mouth of the
Strait of Gibraltar, which they were of necessity to pass. But coming near to the said strait,
it pleased God to raise, at that instant, a very dark and misty fog, so that one ship could
not discern another if it were forty paces off, by means whereof, together with the notable
fair Eastern winds that then blew most fit for their course, they passed with great speed through
the strait, and might have passed, with that good gale, had there been five hundred galleys
to withstand them and the air never so clear for every ship to be seen.

                        -----

THE UNFORTUNATE VOYAGE MADE WITH THE JESUS, THE MINION, AND FOUR OTHER SHIPS, TO THE PARTS
OF GUINEA AND THE WEST INDIES, IN THE YEARS 1567 AND 1568.  BY MASTER JOHN HAWKINS.

The ships departed from Plymouth the 2nd day of October, anno 1567, and had reasonable weather
until the seventh day, at which time, forty leagues north from Cape Finisterre, there arose
an extreme storm which continued four days, in such sort that the fleet was dispersed and all
our great boats lost, and the Jesus, our chief ship, in such case as not thought able to serve
the voyage.  From thence we passed the time upon the coast of Guinea, searching with all diligence
the rivers from Rio Grande unto Sierra Leone till the 12th of January, in which time we had
not gotten together a hundred and fifty negroes: yet, notwithstanding the sickness of our men
and the late time of the year commanded us away:  and thus having nothing wherewith to seek
the coast of the West Indies, I was with the rest of our company in consultation to go to the
coast of the Myne, hoping there to have obtained some gold for our wares, and thereby to have
defrayed our charge.  But even in that present instant there came to us a negro sent from a
king oppressed by other kings, his neighbours, desiring our aid, with promise that as many
negroes as by these wars might be obtained, as well of his part as of ours, should be at our
pleasure.  The treasurer who had the charge there would by no means agree to any trade, or
suffer us to take water.  He had fortified his town with divers bulwarks in all places where
it might be entered, and furnished himself with a hundred harquebusiers, so that he thought
by famine to have enforced us to have put on land our negroes, of which purpose he had not
greatly failed unless we had by force entered the town; which (after we could by no means obtain
his favour) we were enforced to do, and so with two hundred men brake in upon their bulwarks,
and entered the town with the loss only of eleven men of our parts, and no hurt done to the
Spaniards, because after their volley of shot discharged, they all fled.

Thus having the town, with some circumstance, as partly by the Spaniards' desire of negroes,
and partly by friendship of the treasurer, we obtained a secret trade; whereupon the Spaniards
resorted to us by night, and bought of us to the number of two hundred negroes: in all other
places where we traded the Spaniards inhabitants were glad of us, and traded willingly.

At Cartagena, the last town we thought to have seen on the coast, we could by no means obtain
to deal with any Spaniard, the governor was so strait, and because our trade was so near finished,
we thought not good either to adventure any landing or to detract further time, but in peace
departed from thence the 24th of July, hoping to have escaped the time of their storms, which
then soon after began to reign, the which they call Furicanos; but passing by the west end
of Cuba, towards the coast of Florida, there happened to us, the twelfth day of August, an
extreme storm, which continued by the space of four days, which so beat the Jesus, that we
cut down all her higher buildings; her rudder also was sore shaken, and, withal, was in so
extreme a leak, that we were rather upon the point to leave her than to keep her any longer;
yet, hoping to bring all to good pass, sought the coast of Florida, where we found no place
nor haven for our ships, because of the shallowness of the coast.  I found also in the same
port twelve ships, which had in them, by the report, 200,000 livres in gold and silver, all
which (being in my possession with the King's island, as also the passengers before in my way
thitherward stayed) I set at liberty, without the taking from them the weight of a groat; only,
because I would not be delayed of my despatch, I stayed two men of estimation, and sent post
immediately to Mexico, which was two hundred miles from us, to the presidents and Council there,
showing them of our arrival there by the force of weather, and the necessity of the repair
of our ship and victuals, which wants we required, as friends to King Philip, to be furnished
of for our money, and that the presidents in council there should, with all convenient speed,
take order that at the arrival of the Spanish fleet, which was daily looked for, there might
no cause of quarrel rise between us and them, but, for the better maintenance of amity, their
commandment might be had in that behalf.  This message being sent away the 16th day of September,
at night, being the very day of our arrival, in the next morning, which was the sixteenth day
of the same month, we saw open of the haven thirteen great ships, and understanding them to
be the fleet of Spain, I sent immediately to advertise the general of the fleet of my being
there, doing him to understand that, before I would suffer them to enter the port, there should
be some order of conditions pass between us for our safe being there and maintenance of peace.
Now, it is to be understood that this port is a little island of stones, not three feet above
the water in the highest place, and but a bow-shot of length any way.  This island standeth
from the mainland two bow-shots or more. Also it is to be understood that there is not in all
this coast any other place for ships to arrive in safety, because the north wind hath there
such violence, that, unless the ships be very safely moored, with their anchors fastened upon
this island, there is no remedy for these north winds but death; also, the place of the haven
was so little, that of necessity the ships must ride one aboard the other, so that we could
not give place to them nor they to us; and here I began to bewail the which after followed:
"For now," said I, "I am in two dangers, and forced to receive the one of them."  That was,
either I must have kept out the fleet from entering the port (the which, with God's help, I
was very well able to do), or else suffer them to enter in with their accustomed treason, which
they never fail to execute where they may have opportunity, or circumvent it by any means.
If I had kept them out, then had there been present shipwreck of all the fleet, which amounted
in value to six millions, which was in value of our money 1,800,000 livres, which I considered
I was not able to answer, fearing the Queen's Majesty's indignation in so weighty a matter.
Thus with myself revolving the doubts, I thought rather better to abide the jutt of the uncertainty
than the certainty.  The uncertain doubt was their treason, which by good policy I hoped might
be prevented; and therefore, as choosing the least mischief, I proceeded to conditions. Now
was our first messenger come and returned from the fleet with report of the arrival of a Viceroy,
so that he had authority, both in all this province of Mexico (otherwise called Nova Hispania)
and in the sea, who sent us word that we should send our conditions, which of his part should
(for the better maintenance of amity between the princes) be both favourably granted and faithfully
performed, with many fair words how, passing the coast of the Indies, he had understood of
our honest behaviour towards the inhabitants, where we had to do as well elsewhere as in the
same port, the which I let pass, thus following our demand.  We required victual for our money,
and licence to sell as much ware as might furnish our wants, and that there might be of either
part twelve gentlemen as hostage for the maintenance of peace, and that the island, for our
better safety, might be in our own possession during our abode there, and such ordnance as
was planted in the same island, which was eleven pieces of brass, and that no Spaniard might
land in the island with any kind of weapon.

These conditions at the first he somewhat misliked--chiefly the guard of the island to be in
our own keeping; which, if they had had, we had soon known our fate; for with the first north
wind they had cut our cables, and our ships had gone ashore; but in the end he concluded to
our request, bringing the twelve hostages to ten, which with all speed on either part were
received, with a writing from the Viceroy, signed with his hand and sealed with his seal, of
all the conditions concluded, and forthwith a trumpet blown, with commandment that none of
either part should inviolate the peace upon pain of death; and, further, it was concluded that
the two generals of the fleet should meet, and give faith each to other for the performance
of the promises, which was so done.

Thus, at the end of three days, all was concluded, and the fleet entered the port, saluting
one another as the manner of the sea doth require.  Thus, as I said before, Thursday we entered
the port, Friday we saw the fleet, and on Monday, at night, they entered the port; then we
laboured two days, placing the English ships by themselves, and the Spanish ships by themselves,
the captains of each part, and inferior men of their parts, promising great amity of all sides;
which, even as with all fidelity was meant of our part, though the Spanish meant nothing less
of their parts, but from the mainland had furnished themselves with a supply of men to the
number of one thousand, and meant the next Thursday, being the 23rd of September, at dinner-time,
to set upon us of all sides.  The same Thursday, the treason being at hand, some appearance
showed, as shifting of weapons from ship to ship, planting and bending of ordnance from the
ship to the island where our men were, passing to and fro of companies of men more than required
for their necessary business, and many other ill likelihoods, which caused us to have a vehement
suspicion, and therewithal sent to the Viceroy to inquire what was meant by it, which sent
immediately straight commandment to unplant all things suspicious, and also sent word that
he, in the faith of a Viceroy, would be our defence from all villainies.  Yet we, not being
satisfied with this answer, because we suspected a great number of men to be hid in a great
ship of nine hundred tons, which was moored next unto the Minion, sent again unto the Viceroy
the master of the Jesus, which had the Spanish tongue, and required to be satisfied if any
such thing were or not; on which the Viceroy, seeing that the treason must be discovered, forthwith
stayed our master, blew the trumpet, and of all sides set upon us.  Our men which were on guard
ashore, being stricken with sudden fear, gave place, fled, and sought to recover succour of
the ships; the Spaniards, being before provided for the purpose, landed in all places in multitudes
from their ships, which they could easily do without boats, and slew all our men ashore without
mercy, a few of them escaping aboard the Jesus.  The great ship which had, by the estimation,
three hundred men placed in her secretly, immediately fell aboard the Minion, which, by God's
appointment, in the time of the suspicion we had, which was only one half-hour, the Minion
was made ready to avoid, and so, loosing her headfasts, and hailing away by the sternfasts,
she was gotten out; thus, with God's help, she defended the violence of the first brunt of
these three hundred men.  The Minion being passed out, they came aboard the Jesus, which also,
with very much ado and the loss of many of our men, were defended and kept out.  Then were
there also two other ships that assaulted the Jesus at the same instant, so that she had hard
work getting loose; but yet, with some time, we had cut our headfasts, and gotten out by the
sternfasts.  Now, when the Jesus and the Minion were gotten two ship-lengths from the Spanish
fleet, the fight began hot on all sides, so that within one hour the admiral of the Spaniards
was supposed to be sunk, their vice-admiral burned, and one other of their principal ships
supposed to be sunk, so that the ships were little to annoy us.

Then is it to be understood that all the ordnance upon the island was in the Spaniards' hands,
which did us so great annoyance that it cut all the masts and yards of the Jesus in such sort,
that there was no hope to carry her away; also it sank our small ships, whereupon we determined
to place the Jesus on that side of the Minion, that she might abide all the battery from the
land, and so be a defence for the Minion till night, and then to take such relief of victual
and other necessaries from the Jesus as the time would suffer us, and to leave her.  As we
were thus determining, and had placed the Minion from the shot of the land, suddenly the Spaniards
had fired two great ships which were coming directly to us, and having no means to avoid the
fire, it bred among our men a marvellous fear, so that some said, "Let us depart with the Minion,"
others said, "Let us see whether the wind will carry the fire from us."  But to be short, the
Minion's men, which had always their sails in a readiness, thought to make sure work, and so
without either consent of the captain or master, cut their sail, so that very hardly I was
received into the Minion.

The most part of the men that were left alive in the Jesus made shift and followed the Minion
in a small boat, the rest, which the little boat was not able to receive, were enforced to
abide the mercy of the Spaniards (which I doubt was very little); so with the Minion only,
and the Judith (a small barque of fifty tons) we escaped, which barque the same night forsook
us in our great misery.  We were now removed with the Minion from the Spanish ships two bow-shots,
and there rode all that night.  The next morning we recovered an island a mile from the Spaniards,
where there took us a north wind, and being left only with two anchors and two cables (for
in this conflict we lost three cables and two anchors), we thought always upon death, which
ever was present, but God preserved us to a longer time.

The weather waxed reasonable, and the Saturday we set sail, and having a great number of men
and little victual, our hope of life waxed less and less.  Some desired to yield to the Spaniards,
some rather desired to obtain a place where they might give themselves to the infidels; and
some had rather abide, with a little pittance, the mercy of God at sea.  Thus in the end, on
the 8th day of October, we came to the land in the bottom of the same bay of Mexico, in twenty-three
degrees and a half, where we hoped to have found habitations of the Spaniards, relief of victuals,
and place for the repair of our ship, which was so sore beaten with shot from our enemies,
and bruised with shooting of our own ordnance, that our weary and weak arms were scarce able
to defend and keep out the water.  But all things happened to the contrary, for we found neither
people, victual, nor haven of relief, but a place where, having fair weather, with some peril
we might land a boat.  Our people, being forced with hunger, desired to be set aland, whereunto
I concluded.

And such as were willing to land I put apart, and such as were desirous to go homewards I put
apart, so that they were indifferently parted, a hundred of one side and a hundred of the other
side.  These hundred men we set on land with all diligence, in this little place aforesaid,
which being landed, we determined there to refresh our water, and so with our little remain
of victuals to take the sea.

The next day, having on land with me fifty of our hundred men that remained, for the speedier
preparing of our water aboard, there arose an extreme storm, so that in three days we could
by no means repair our ships.  The ship also was in such peril that every hour we looked for
shipwreck.

But yet God again had mercy on us, and sent fair weather.  We got aboard our water, and departed
the 16th day of October, after which day we had fair and prosperous weather till the 16th day
of November, which day, God be praised, we were clear from the coast of the Indians and out
of the channel and gulf of Bahama, which is between the cape of Florida and the islands of
Cuba.  After this, growing near to the cold country, our men, being oppressed with famine,
died continually, and they that were left grew into such weakness that we were scarcely able
to manoeuvre our ship, and the wind being always ill for us to recover England, determined
to go to Galicia, in Spain, with intent there to relieve our company and other extreme wants.
And being arrived the last day of December, in a place near unto Vigo, called Pontevedra, our
men, with excess of fresh meat, grew into miserable diseases, and died a great part of them.
This matter was borne out as long as it might be, but in the end, although there was none of
our men suffered to go on land, yet by access of the Spaniards our feebleness was known to
them.  Whereupon they ceased not to seek by all means to betray us, but with all speed possible
we departed to Vigo, where we had some help of certain English ships, and twelve fresh men,
wherewith we repaired our wants as we might, and departing the 30th day of January, 1568, arrived
in Mount's Bay in Cornwall the 25th of the same month, praised be God therefore.

                            JOHN HAWKINS.

                      -----

A DISCOURSE WRITTEN BY ONE MILES PHILLIPS, ENGLISHMAN, ONE OF THE COMPANY PUT ASHORE IN THE
WEST INDIES BY MASTER JOHN HAWKINS IN THE YEAR 1568, CONTAINING MANY SPECIAL THINGS OF THAT
COUNTRY AND OF THE SPANISH GOVERNMENT, BUT SPECIALLY OF THEIR CRUELTIES USED TO OUR ENGLISHMEN,
AND AMONGST THE REST, TO HIMSELF FOR THE SPACE OF FIFTEEN OR SIXTEEN YEARS TOGETHER, UNTIL
BY GOOD AND HAPPY MEANS HE WAS DELIVERED FROM THEIR BLOODY HANDS, AND RETURNED TO HIS OWN COUNTRY.
ANNO 1582.

THE FIRST CHAPTER.

WHEREIN IS SHOWN THE DAY AND TIME OF OUR DEPARTURE FROM THE COAST OF ENGLAND, WITH THE NUMBER
AND NAMES OF THE SHIPS, THEIR CAPTAINS AND MASTERS, AND OF OUR TRAFFIC AND DEALING UPON THE
COAST OF AFRICA.

Upon Monday, being the 2nd of October, 1567, the weather being reasonable fair, our General,
Master John Hawkins, having commanded all his captains and masters to be in a readiness to
make sail with him, he himself being embarked in the Jesus, whereof was appointed for master
Robert Barret, hoisted sail and departed from Plymouth upon his intended voyage for the parts
of Africa and America, being accompanied with five other sail of ships, as namely the Minion,
wherein went for captain Master John Hampton, and John Garret, master.  The William and John,
wherein was Captain Thomas Bolton, and James Raunce, master.  The Judith, in whom was Captain
Master Francis Drake, now Knight, and the Angel, whose master, as also the captain and master
of the Swallow, I now remember not.  And so sailing in company together upon our voyage until
the 10th of the same month, an extreme storm then took us near unto Cape Finisterre, which
lasted for the space of four days, and so separated our ships that we had lost one another,
and our General, finding the Jesus to be but in ill case, was in mind to give over the voyage
and to return home.  Howbeit, the eleventh of the same month, the seas waxing calm and the
wind coming fair, he altered his purpose, and held on the former intended voyage; and so coming
to the island of Gomera, being one of the islands of the Canaries, where, according to an order
before appointed, we met with all our ships which were before dispersed.  We then took in fresh
water and departed from thence the 4th of November, and holding on our course, upon the 18th
day of the same month we came to an anchor upon the coast of Africa, at Cape Verde, in twelve
fathoms of water, and here our General landed certain of our men, to the number of 160 or thereabouts,
seeking to take some negroes.  And they, going up into the country for the space of six miles,
were encountered with a great number of the negroes, who with their envenomed arrows did hurt
a great number of our men, so that they were enforced to retire to the ships, in which conflict
they recovered but a few negroes; and of these our men which were hurt with their envenomed
arrows, there died to the number of seven or eight in very strange manner, with their mouths
shut, so that we were forced to put sticks and other things into their mouths to keep them
open; and so afterwards passing the time upon the coast of Guinea, until the 12th of January,
we obtained by that time the number of one hundred and fifty negroes.  And being ready to depart
from the sea coast, there was a negro sent as an ambassador to our General, from a king of
the negroes, which was oppressed with other kings, his bordering kings, desiring our General
to grant him succour and aid against those his enemies, which our General granted unto, and
went himself in person on land with the number of 200 of our men, or thereabouts, and the said
king which had requested our aid, did join his force with ours, so that thereby our General
assaulted and set fire upon a town of the said king his enemies, in which there was at the
least the number of eight or ten thousand negroes, and they, perceiving that they were not
able to make any resistance, sought by flight to save themselves, in which their flight there
were taken prisoners to the number of eight or nine hundred, which our General ought to have
had for his share; howbeit the negro king, which requested our aid, falsifying his word and
promise, secretly in the night conveyed himself away with as many prisoners as he had in his
custody; but our General, notwithstanding finding himself to have now very near the number
of 500 negroes, thought it best without longer abode to depart with them and such merchandise
as he had from the coast of Africa towards the West Indies, and therefore commanded with all
diligence to take in fresh water and fuel, and so with speed to prepare to depart.  Howbeit,
before we departed from thence, in a storm that we had, we lost one of our ships, namely, the
William and John, of which ship and her people we heard no tidings during the time of our voyage.

THE SECOND CHAPTER.

WHEREIN IS SHOWED THE DAY AND TIME OF OUR DEPARTURE FROM THE COAST OF AFRICA, WITH THE DAY
AND TIME OF OUR ARRIVAL IN THE WEST INDIES, ALSO OF OUR TRADE AND TRAFFIC THERE, AND ALSO OF
THE GREAT CRUELTY THAT THE SPANIARDS USED TOWARDS US, BY THE VICEROY HIS DIRECTION AND APPOINTMENT,
FALSIFYING HIS FAITH AND PROMISE GIVEN, AND SEEKING TO HAVE ENTRAPPED US.

All things being made in a readiness at our General his appointment, upon the 3rd day of February,
1568, we departed from the coast of Africa, having the weather somewhat tempestuous; which
made our passage the more hard, and sailing so for the space of twenty-five days, upon the
27th March, 1568, we came in sight of an island called Dominique, upon the coast of America,
in the West Indies, situated in fourteen degrees of latitude, and two hundred and twenty-two
of longitude.  From thence our General coasted from place to place, ever making traffic with
the Spaniards and Indians, as he might, which was somewhat hardly obtained, for that the king
had straitly charged all his governors in those parts not to trade with any.  Yet notwithstanding,
during the months of April and May, our General had reasonable trade and traffic, and courteous
entertainment in sundry places, as at Marguerite, Corassoa, and elsewhere, until we came to
Cape de la Vela, and Rio de la Hacha (a place from whence all the pearls do come).  The governor
there would not by any means permit us to have any trade or traffic, nor yet suffer us to take
in fresh water; by means whereof our General, for the avoiding of famine and thirst, about
the beginning of June was enforced to land 200 of our men, and so by main force and strength
to obtain that which by no fair means he could procure; and so recovering the town with the
loss of two of our men, there was a secret and peaceable trade admitted, and the Spaniards
came in by night, and bought of our negroes to the number of 200 and upwards, and of our other
merchandise also.  From thence we departed for Cartagena, where the governor was so strait
that we could not obtain any traffic there, and so for that our trade was near finished, our
General thought it best to depart from thence the rather for the avoiding of certain dangerous
storms called the huricanoes, which accustomed to begin there about that time of the year,
and so the 24th of July, 1568, we departed from thence, directing our course north, leaving
the islands of Cuba upon our right hand, to the eastward of us, and so sailing towards Florida,
upon the 12th of August an extreme tempest arose, which dured for the space of eight days,
in which our ships were most dangerously tossed, and beaten hither and thither, so that we
were in continual fear to be drowned, by reason of the shallowness of the coast, and in the
end we were constrained to flee for succour to the port of St. John de Ullua, or Vera Cruz,
situated in nineteen degrees of latitude, and in two hundred and seventy-nine degrees of longitude,
which is the port that serveth for the city of Mexico.  In our seeking to recover this port
our General met by the way three small ships that carried passengers, which he took with him,
and so the 16th of September, 1568, we entered the said port of St. John de Ullua.  The Spaniards
there, supposing us to have been the King of Spain's fleet, the chief officers of the country
thereabouts came presently aboard our General, where perceiving themselves to have made an
unwise adventure, they were in great fear to have been taken and stayed; howbeit our General
did use them all very courteously.  In the said port there were twelve ships, which by report
had in them in treasure, to the value of two hundred thousand pounds, all which being in our
General his power, and at his devotion, he did freely set at liberty, as also the passengers
which he had before stayed, not taking from any of them all the value of one groat, only we
stayed two men of credit and account, the one named Don Lorenzo de Alva, and the other Don
Pedrode Revera, and presently our General sent to the Viceroy to Mexico, which was threescore
leagues off, certifying him of our arrival there by force of weather, desiring that forasmuch
as our Queen, his Sovereign, was the King of Spain his loving sister and friend, that therefore
he would, considering our necessities and wants, furnish us with victuals for our navy, and
quietly to suffer us to repair and amend our ships.  And furthermore that at the arrival of
the Spanish fleet, which was there daily expected and looked for, to the end that there might
no quarrel arise between them and our General and his company for the breach of amity, he humbly
requested of his excellency that there might in this behalf some special order be taken.  This
message was sent away the 16th of September, 1568, it being the very day of our arrival there.
The next morning, being the 17th of the same month, we descried thirteen sail of great ships;
and after that our General understood that it was the King of Spain's fleet then looked for,
he presently sent to advertise the General hereof of our being in the said port, and giving
him further to understand, that before he should enter there into that harbour, it was requisite
that there should pass between the two Generals some orders and conditions, to be observed
on either part, for the better contriving of peace between them and theirs, according to our
General's request made unto the Viceroy.  And at this instant our General was in a great perplexity
of mind, considering with himself that if he should keep out that fleet from entering into
the port, a thing which he was very well able to do with the help of God, then should that
fleet be in danger of present shipwreck and loss of all their substance, which amounted unto
the value of one million and eight hundred thousand crowns.  Again, he saw that if he suffered
them to enter, he was assured they would practise all manner of means to betray him and his,
and on the other side the haven was so little, that the other fleet entering, the ships were
to ride one hard aboard of another; also he saw that if their fleet should perish by his keeping
them out, as of necessity they must if he should have done so, then stood he in great fear
of the Queen our Sovereign's displeasure; in so weighty a cause, therefore, did he choose the
least evil, which was to suffer them to enter under assurance, and so to stand upon his guard,
and to defend himself and his from their treasons, which we were all assured they would practise,
and so the messenger being returned from Don Martine de Henriquez, the new Viceroy, who came
in the same fleet, and had sufficient authority to command in all cases both by sea and land
in this province of Mexico or New Spain, did certify our General, that for the better maintenance
of amity between the King of Spain and our Sovereign, all our requests should be both favourably
granted and faithfully performed; signifying further that he heard and understood of the honest
and friendly dealing of our General towards the King of Spain's subjects in all places where
he had been, as also in the said port; so that to be brief our requests were articled and set
down in writing, viz.--

1.  The first was that we might have victuals for our money and license to sell as much wares
as might suffice to furnish our wants.

2.  The second, that we might be suffered peaceably to repair our ships.

3.  The third, that the island might be in our possession during the time of our abode there,
in which island our General, for the better safety of him and his, had already planted and
placed certain ordnance, which were eleven pieces of brass; therefore he required that the
same might so continue, and that no Spaniard should come to land in the said island having
or wearing any kind of weapon about him.

4.  The fourth and the last, that for the better and more sure performance and maintenance
of peace, and of all the conditions, there might twelve gentlemen of credit be delivered of
either part as hostages.

These conditions were concluded and agreed upon in writing by the Viceroy and signed with his
hand, and sealed with his seal, and ten hostages upon either part were received.  And farther,
it was concluded that the two Generals should meet and give faith each to other for the performance
of the promises.  All which being done, the same was proclaimed by the sound of a trumpet,
and commandment was given that none of either part should violate or break the peace upon pain
of death.  Thus, at the end of three days all was concluded, and the fleet entered the port,
the ships saluting each other as the manner of the seas doth require.  The morrow after being
Friday, we laboured on all sides in placing the English ships by themselves and the Spanish
ships by themselves; the captains and inferior persons of either part offering and showing
great courtesy one to another, and promising great amity upon all sides.  Howbeit, as the sequel
showed, the Spaniards meant nothing less upon their parts.  For the Viceroy and the governor
thereabout had secretly on land assembled to the number of one thousand chosen men, and well
appointed, meaning the next Thursday, being the 24th of September, at dinner time to assault
us, and set upon us on all sides.  But before I go any further, I think it not amiss briefly
to describe the manner of the island as it then was, and the force and strength that it is
now of.  For the Spaniards, since the time of our General's being there, for the better fortifying
of the same place, have upon the same island built a fair castle and bulwark very well fortified;
this port was then, at our being there, a little island of stones, not past three foot above
water in the highest place, and not past a bow's shot over any way at the most, and it standeth
from the mainland two bow-shots or more, and there is not in all this coast any other place
for ships safely to arrive at; also the north winds in this coast are of great violence and
force, and unless the ships be safely moored in, with their anchors fastened in this island,
there is no remedy, but present destruction and shipwreck.  All this our General, wisely foreseeing,
did provide that he would have the said island in his custody, or else the Spaniards might
at their pleasure have but cut our cables, and so with the first north wind that blew we had
had our passport, for our ships had gone ashore.  But to return to the matter. The time approaching
that their treason must be put in practice, the same Thursday morning, some appearance thereof
began to show itself, as shifting of weapons from ship to ship, and planting and bending their
ordnance against our men that warded upon the land with great repair of people; which apparent
shows of breach of the Viceroy's faith caused our General to send one to the Viceroy to inquire
of him what was meant thereby, who presently sent and gave order that the ordnance aforesaid
and other things of suspicion should be removed, returning answer to our General in the faith
of a Viceroy that he would be our defence and safety from all villainous treachery.  This was
upon Thursday, in the morning.  Our General not being therewith satisfied, seeing they had
secretly conveyed a great number of men aboard a great hulk or ship of theirs of nine hundred
tons, which ship rode hard by the Minion, he sent again to the Viceroy Robert Barret, the master
of the Jesus--a man that could speak the Spanish tongue very well, and required that those
men might be unshipped again which were in that great hulk.  The Viceroy then perceiving that
their treason was thoroughly espied, stayed our master and sounded the trumpet, and gave order
that his people should upon all sides charge upon our men which warded on shore and elsewhere,
which struck such a maze and sudden fear among us, that many gave place and sought to recover
our ships for the safety of themselves.  The Spaniards, which secretly were hid in ambush on
land, were quickly conveyed over to the island in their long boats, and so coming to the island
they slew all our men that they could meet with without any mercy.  The Minion--which had somewhat
before prepared herself to avoid the danger--hailed away, and abode the first brunt of the
three hundred men that were in the great hulk; then they sought to fall aboard the Jesus, where
was a cruel fight, and many of our men slain; but yet our men defended themselves, and kept
them out:  so the Jesus also got loose, and, joining with the Minion, the fight waxed hot upon
all sides; but they having won and got our ordnance on shore, did greatly annoy us.  In this
fight there were two great ships of the Spaniards sunk and one burnt, so that with their ships
they were not able to harm us; but from the shore they beat us cruelly with our own ordnance
in such sort that the Jesus was very sore spoiled, and suddenly the Spaniards, having fired
two great ships of their own, came directly against us; which bred among our men a marvellous
fear. Howbeit, the Minion, which had made her sails ready, shifted for herself without consent
of the General, captain, or master, so that very hardly our General could be received into
the Minion; the most of our men that were in the Jesus shifted for themselves, and followed
the Minion in the boat, and those which that small boat was not able to receive were most cruelly
slain by the Spaniards.  Of our ships none escaped save the Minion and the Judith, and all
such of our men as were not in them were enforced to abide the tyrannous cruelty of the Spaniards.
For it is a certain truth, that whereas they had taken certain of our men at shore, they took
and hung them up by the arms upon high posts until the blood burst out of their fingers' ends;
of which men so used there is one Copstowe and certain others yet alive, who, through the merciful
Providence of the Almighty, were long since arrived here at home in England, carrying still
about with them (and shall to their graves) the marks and tokens of those their inhuman and
more than barbarous cruel dealing.

THE THIRD CHAPTER.

WHEREIN IS SHOWED HOW THAT, AFTER WE WERE ESCAPED FROM THE SPANIARDS, WE WERE LIKE TO PERISH
WITH FAMINE AT THE SEA, AND HOW OUR GENERAL, FOR THE AVOIDING THEREOF, WAS CONSTRAINED TO PUT
HALF OF HIS MEN ON LAND, AND WHAT MISERIES WE AFTER THAT SUSTAINED AMONGST THE SAVAGE PEOPLE,
AND HOW WE FELL AGAIN INTO THE HANDS OF THE SPANIARDS.

After that the Viceroy, Don Martin Henriques, had thus contrary to his faith and promise most
cruelly dealt with our General, Master Hawkins, at St. John de Ullua, where most of his men
were by the Spaniards slain and drowned, and all his ships sunk and burnt, saving the Minion
and the Judith, which was a small barque of fifty tons, wherein was then captain Master Francis
Drake aforesaid; the same night the said barque was lost us, we being in great necessity and
enforced to move with the Minion two bow-shots from the Spanish fleet, where we anchored all
that night; and the next morning we weighed anchor and recovered an island a mile from the
Spaniards, where a storm took us with a north wind, in which we were greatly distressed, having
but two cables and two anchors left; for in the conflict before we had lost three cables and
two anchors.  The morrow after, the storm being ceased and the weather fair, we weighed and
set sail, being many men in number and but small store of victuals to suffice us for any long
time; by means whereof we were in despair and fear that we should perish through famine, so
that some were in mind to yield themselves to the mercy of the Spaniards, other some to the
savages or infidels, and wandering thus certain days in these unknown seas, hunger constrained
us to eat hides, cats and dogs, mice, rats, parrots, and monkeys, to be short, our hunger was
so great that we thought it savoury and sweet whatsoever we could get to eat.

And on the 8th of October we came to land again, in the bottom of the Bay of Mexico, where
we hoped to have found some inhabitants, that we might have had some relief of victuals and
a place where to repair our ship, which was so greatly bruised that we were scarce able, with
our weary arms, to keep out the water.  Being thus oppressed, by famine on the one side and
danger of drowning on the other, not knowing where to find relief, we began to be in wonderful
despair.  And we were of many minds, amongst whom there were a great many that did desire our
General to set them on land, making their choice rather to submit themselves to the mercy of
the savages or infidels than longer to hazard themselves at sea, where they very well saw that
if they should all remain together, if they perished not by drowning, yet hunger would enforce
them, in the end, to eat one another.  To which request our General did very willingly agree,
considering with himself that it was necessary for him to lessen his number, both for the safety
of himself and the rest.  And, thereupon, being resolved to set half his people on shore that
he had then left alive, it was a world to see how suddenly men's minds were altered, for they
which a little before desired to be set on land were now of another mind, and requested rather
to stay, by means whereof our General was enforced, for the more contenting of all men's minds,
and to take away all occasions of offence, to take this order: first he made choice of such
persons of service and account as were needful to stay, and that being done, of those which
were willing to go, he appointed such as he thought might be best spared, and presently appointed
that by the boat they should be set on shore, our General promising us that the next year he
would either come himself or else send to fetch us home.  Here, again, it would have caused
any stony heart to have relented to hear the pitiful moan that many did make, and how loth
they were to depart.  The weather was then somewhat stormy and tempestuous, and therefore we
were in great danger, yet, notwithstanding there was no remedy, but we that were appointed
to go away must of necessity do so.  Howbeit, those that went in the first boat were safely
set ashore, but of them which went in the second boat, of which number I myself was one, the
seas wrought so high that we could not attain to the shore, and therefore we were constrained--through
the cruel dealing of John Hampton, captain of the Minion, and John Sanders, boatswain of the
Jesus, and Thomas Pollard, his mate--to leap out of the boat into the main sea, having more
than a mile to shore, and, so to shift for ourselves, and either to sink or swim.  And of those
that so were, as it were, thrown out and compelled to leap into the sea, there were two drowned,
which were of Captain Bland's men.

In the evening of the same day--it being Monday, the 8th of October, 1568--when we were all
come to shore, we found fresh water, whereof some of our men drank so much that they had almost
cast themselves away, for we could scarce get life in them for the space of two or three hours
after.  Other some were so cruelly swollen--what with the drinking in of the salt water, and
what with the eating of the fruit which we found on land, having a stone in it much like an
almond, which fruit is called capule--that they were all in very ill case, so that we were,
in a manner, all of us, both feeble, weak, and faint.

The next morning--it being Tuesday, the 9th of October--we thought it best to travel along
by the sea coast, to seek out some place of habitation--whether they were Christians or savages
we were indifferent--so that we might have wherewithal to sustain our hungry bodies, and so
departing from a hill where we had rested all night, not having any dry thread about us, for
those that were not wet being thrown into the sea were thoroughly wet with rain, for all the
night it rained cruelly.  As we went from the hill, and were come into the plain, we were greatly
troubled to pass for the grass and woods, that grew there higher than any man.  On the left
hand we had the sea, and upon the right hand great woods, so that of necessity we must needs
pass on our way westward through those marshes, and going thus, suddenly we were assaulted
by the Indians, a warlike kind of people, which are in a manner as cannibals, although they
do not feed upon man's flesh as cannibals do.

These people are called Chichemici, and they used to wear their hair long, even down to their
knees; they do also colour their faces green, yellow, red, and blue, which maketh them to seem
very ugly and terrible to behold.  These people do keep wars against the Spaniards, of whom
they have been oftentimes very cruelly handled:  for with the Spaniards there is no mercy.
They, perceiving us at our first coming on land, supposed us to have been their enemies the
bordering Spaniards; and having, by their forerunners, descried what number we were, and how
feeble and weak, without armour or weapon, they suddenly, according to their accustomed manner
when they encounter with any people in warlike sort, raised a terrible and huge cry, and so
came running fiercely upon us, shooting off their arrows as thick as hail, unto whose mercy
we were constrained to yield, not having amongst us any kind of armour, nor yet weapon, saving
one caliver and two old rusty swords, whereby to make any resistance or to save ourselves;
which, when they perceived that we sought not any other than favour and mercy at their hands,
and that we were not their enemies the Spaniards, they had compassion on us, and came and caused
us all to sit down.  And when they had a while surveyed, and taken a perfect view of us, they
came to all such as had any coloured clothes amongst us, and those they did strip stark naked,
and took their clothes away with them; but they that were apparelled in black they did not
meddle withal, and so went their ways and left us, without doing us any further hurt, only
in the first brunt they killed eight of our men.  And at our departure they, perceiving in
what weak case we were, pointed us with their hands which way we should go to come to a town
of the Spaniards, which, as we afterwards perceived, was not past ten leagues from thence,
using these words:  "Tampeco, tampeco, Christiano, tampeco, Christiano," which is as much (we
think) as to say in English, "Go that way, and you shall find the Christians." The weapons
that they use are no other but bows and arrows, and their aim is so good that they very seldom
miss to hit anything that they shoot at.  Shortly after they had left us stripped, as aforesaid,
we thought it best to divide ourselves into two companies, and so, being separated, half of
us went under the leading one of Anthony Goddard, who is yet alive, and dwelleth at this instant
in the town of Plymouth, whom before we chose to be captain over us all.  And those that went
under his leading, of which number I, Miles Phillips, was one, travelled westward--that way
which the Indians with their hands had before pointed us to go.  The other half went under
the leading of one John Hooper, whom they did choose for their captain, and with the company
that went with him David Ingram was one, and they took their way and travelled northward. 
And shortly after, within the space of two days, they were again encountered by the savage
people, and their Captain Hooper and two more of his company were slain.  Then again they divided
themselves; and some held on their way still northward, and other some, knowing that we were
gone westward, sought to meet with us again, as, in truth, there was about the number of five-and-twenty
or six-and-twenty of them that met with us in the space of four days again.  And then we began
to reckon amongst ourselves how many we were that were set on shore, and we found the number
to be an hundred and fourteen, whereof two were drowned in the sea and eight were slain at
the first encounter, so that there remained an hundred and four, of which five-and-twenty went
westward with us, and two-and-fifty to the north with Hooper and Ingram; and, as Ingram since
has often told me, there were not past three of their company slain, and there were but five-and-twenty
of them that came again to us, so that of the company that went northward there is yet lacking,
and not certainly heard of, the number of three-and-twenty men.  And verily I do think that
there are of them yet alive and married in the said country, at Sibola, as hereafter I do purpose
(God willing) to discourse of more particularly, with the reasons and causes that make me so
to think of them that were lacking, which were with David Ingram, Twide, Browne, and sundry
others, whose names we could not remember.  And being thus met again together we travelled
on still westward, sometimes through such thick woods that we were enforced with cudgels to
break away the brambles and bushes from tearing our naked bodies; other sometimes we should
travel through the plains in such high grass that we could scarce see one another.  And as
we passed in some places we should have of our men slain, and fall down suddenly, being stricken
by the Indians, which stood behind trees and bushes, in secret places, and so killed our men
as they went by; for we went scatteringly in seeking of fruits to relieve ourselves.  We were
also oftentimes greatly annoyed with a kind of fly, which, in the Indian tongue, is called
tequani; and the Spaniards call them musketas.  There are also in the said country a number
of other kind of flies, but none so noisome as these tequanies be.  You shall hardly see them,
they be so small:  for they are scarce so big as a gnat.  They will suck one's blood marvellously,
and if you kill them while they are sucking they are so venomous that the place will swell
extremely, even as one that is stung with a wasp or bee. But if you let them suck their fill,
and to go away of themselves, then they do you no other hurt, but leave behind them a red spot
somewhat bigger than a flea biting.  At the first we were terribly troubled with these kind
of flies, not knowing their qualities; and resistance we could make none against them, being
naked.  As for cold, we feared not any:  the country there is always so warm.

And as we travelled thus for the space of ten or twelve days, our captain did oftentimes cause
certain to go up into the tops of high trees, to see if they could descry any town or place
of inhabitants, but they could not perceive any, and using often the same order to climb up
into high trees, at the length they descried a great river, that fell from the north-west into
the main sea; and presently after we heard an harquebuse shot off, which did greatly encourage
us, for thereby we knew that we were near to some Christians, and did therefore hope shortly
to find some succour and comfort; and within the space of one hour after, as we travelled,
we heard a cock crow, which was also no small joy unto us; and so we came to the north side
of the river of Panuco, where the Spaniards have certain salines, at which place it was that
the harquebuse was shot off which before we heard; to which place we went not directly, but,
missing thereof, we left it about a bow-shot upon our left hand.  Of this river we drank very
greedily, for we had not met with any water in six days before; and, as we were here by the
river's side, resting ourselves, and longing to come to the place where the cock did crow and
where the harquebuse was shot off, we perceived many Spaniards upon the other side of the river
riding up and down on horseback, and they, perceiving us, did suppose that we had been of the
Indians, their bordering enemies, the Chichemici.  The river was not more than half a bow-shot
across, and presently one of the Spaniards took an Indian boat, called a canoa, and so came
over, being rowed by two Indians; and, having taken the view of us, did presently row over
back again to the Spaniards, who without any delay made out about the number of twenty horsemen,
and embarking themselves in the canoas, they led their horses by the reins, swimming over after
them; and being come over to that side of the river where we were, they saddled their horses,
and being mounted upon them, with their lances charged, they came very fiercely running at
us.  Our captain, Anthony Goddard, seeing them come in that order, did persuade us to submit
and yield ourselves unto them, for being naked, as we at this time were, and without weapon,
we could not make any resistance--whose bidding we obeyed; and upon the yielding of ourselves,
they perceived us to be Christians, and did call for more canoas, and carried us over by four
and four in a boat; and being come on the other side, they understanding by our captain how
long we had been without meat, imparted between two and two a loaf of bread made of that country
wheat, which the Spaniards called maize, of the bigness of one of our halfpenny loaves, which
bread is named in the Indian tongue clashacally.  This bread was very sweet and pleasant to
us, for we had not eaten any for a long time before; and what is it that hunger doth not make
to have a savoury and delicate taste?  Having thus imparted the bread amongst us, those which
were men they sent afore to the town, having also many Indians, inhabitants of that place,
to guard them.  They which were young, as boys, and some such also as were feeble, they took
up upon their horses behind them, and so carried us to the town where they dwelt, which was
distant very near a mile from the place where we came over.

This town is well situated, and well replenished with all kinds of fruits, as pomegranates,
oranges, lemons, apricots, and peaches, and sundry others, and is inhabited by a great number
of tame Indians, or Mexicans, and had in it also at that time about the number of two hundred
Spaniards, men, women, and children, besides negroes.  Of their salines, which lie upon the
west side of the river, more than a mile distant from thence, they make a great profit, for
it is an excellent good merchandise there.  The Indians do buy much thereof, and carry it up
into the country, and there sell it to their own country people, in doubling the price.  Also,
much of the salt made in this place is transported from thence by sea to sundry other places,
as to Cuba, St. John de Ullua, and the other ports of Tamiago, and Tamachos, which are two
barred havens west and by south above threescore leagues from St. John de Ullua.  When we were
all come to the town, the governor there showed himself very severe unto us, and threatened
to hang us all; and then he demanded what money we had, which in truth was very little, for
the Indians which we first met withal had in a manner taken all from us, and of that which
they left the Spaniards which brought us over took away a good part also; howbeit, from Anthony
Goddard the governor here had a chain of gold, which was given unto him at Cartagena by the
governor there, and from others he had some small store of money; so that we accounted that
amongst us all he had the number of five hundred pezoes, besides the chain of gold.

And having thus satisfied himself, when he had taken all that we had, he caused us to be put
into a little house, much like a hog sty, where we were almost smothered; and before we were
thus shut up into that little cote, they gave us some of the country wheat called maize sodden,
which they feed their hogs withal.  But many of our men which had been hurt by the Indians
at our first coming on land, whose wounds were very sore and grievous, desired to have the
help of their surgeons to cure their wounds.  The governor, and most of them all, answered,
that we should have none other surgeon but the hangman, which should sufficiently heal us of
all our griefs; and they, thus reviling us, and calling us English dogs and Lutheran heretics,
we remained the space of three days in this miserable state, not knowing what should become
of us, waiting every hour to be bereaved of our lives.

THE FOURTH CHAPTER.

WHEREIN IS SHOWED HOW WE WERE USED IN PANUCO, AND IN WHAT FEAR OF DEATH WE WERE THERE, AND
HOW WE WERE CARRIED TO MEXICO TO THE VICEROY, AND OF OUR IMPRISONMENT THERE AND AT TESCUCO,
WITH THE COURTESIES AND CRUELTIES WE RECEIVED DURING THAT TIME, AND HOW IN THE END WE WERE
BY PROCLAMATION GIVEN TO SERVE AS SLAVES TO SUNDRY GENTLEMEN SPANIARDS.

Upon the fourth day after our coming thither, and there remaining in a perplexity, looking
every hour when we should suffer death, there came a great number of Indians and Spaniards
armed to fetch us out of the house, and amongst them we espied one that brought a great many
new halters, at the sight whereof we were greatly amazed, and made no other account but that
we should presently have suffered death; and so, crying and calling to God for mercy and for
forgiveness of our sins, we prepared ourselves to die; yet in the end, as the sequel showed,
their meaning was not so; for when we were come out of the house, with those halters they bound
our arms behind us, and so coupling us two and two together, they commanded us to march on
through the town, and so along the country from place to place toward the city of Mexico, which
is distant from Panuco west and by south the space of threescore leagues, having only but two
Spaniards to conduct us, they being accompanied with a great number of Indians, warding on
either side with bows and arrows, lest we should escape from them.  And travelling in this
order, upon the second day, at night, we came unto a town which the Indians call Nohele, and
the Spaniards call it Santa Maria, in which town there is a house of White Friars, which did
very courteously use us, and gave us hot meat, as mutton and broth, and garments also to cover
ourselves withal, made of white baize.  We fed very greedily of the meat and of the Indian
fruit, called nochole, which fruit is long and small, much like in fashion to a little cucumber.
Our greedy feeding caused us to fall sick of hot burning agues; and here at this place one
Thomas Baker, one of our men, died of a hurt, for he had been before shot with an arrow into
the throat at the first encounter.

The next morrow, about ten of the clock, we departed from thence, bound two and two together,
and guarded as before, and so travelled on our way toward Mexico, till we came to a town within
forty leagues of Mexico named Mesticlan, where is a house of Black Friars, and in this town
there are about the number of three hundred Spaniards, both men, women, and children.  The
friars sent us meat from the house ready dressed, and the friars and men and women used us
very courteously, and gave us some shirts and other such things as we lacked.  Here our men
were very sick of their agues, and with eating of another fruit, called in the Indian tongue,
Guiaccos, which fruit did bind us sore.  The next morning we departed from thence with our
two Spaniards and Indian guard as aforesaid.  Of these two Spaniards the one was an aged man,
who all the way did very courteously entreat us, and would carefully go before to provide for
us both meat and things necessary to the uttermost of his power.  The other was a young man,
who all the way travelled with us, and never departed from us, who was a very cruel caitiff,
and he carried a javelin in his hand, and sometimes when as our men with very feebleness and
faintness were not able to go so fast as he required them, he would take his javelin in both
his hands and strike them with the same between the neck and the shoulders so violently that
he would strike them down, then would he cry and say:  "Marches, marches, Engleses perros,
Luterianos, enemicos de Dios;" which is as much to say in English, "March, march on you English
dogs, Lutherans, enemies to God."  And the next day we came to a town called Pachuca, and there
are two places of that name, as this town of Pachuca, and the mines of Pachuca, which are mines
of silver, and are about six leagues distant from this town of Pachuca towards the north-west.

Here at this town the good old man our governor suffered us to stay two days and two nights,
having compassion of our sick and weak men, full sore against the mind of the young man his
companion.  From thence we took our journey, and travelled four or five days by little villages
and Stantias, which are farms or dairy houses of the Spaniards, and ever as we had need the
good old man would still provide us sufficient of meats, fruits, and water to sustain us. 
At the end of which five days we came to a town within five leagues of Mexico, which is called
Quoghliclan, where we also stayed one whole day and two nights, where was a fair house of Grey
Friars, howbeit, we saw none of them.  Here we were told by the Spaniards in the town that
we had not more than fifteen English miles from thence to Mexico, whereof we were all very
joyful and glad, hoping that when we came thither we should either be relieved and set free
out of bonds, or else be quickly despatched out of our lives; for seeing ourselves thus carried
bound from place to place, although some used us courteously, yet could we never joy nor be
merry till we might perceive ourselves set free from that bondage, either by death or otherwise.

The next morning we departed from thence on our journey towards Mexico, and so travelled till
we came within two leagues of it, where there was built by the Spaniards a very fair church,
called Our Lady Church, in which there is an image of Our Lady of silver and gilt, being as
high and as large as a tall woman, in which church, and before this image, there are as many
lamps of silver as there be days in the year, which upon high days are all lighted.  Whensoever
any Spaniards pass by this church, although they be on horseback, they will alight and come
into the church, and kneel before this image, and pray to Our Lady to defend them from all
evil; so that whether he be horseman or footman he will not pass by, but first go into the
church and pray as aforesaid, which if they do not, they think and believe that they shall
never prosper, which image they call in the Spanish tongue Nostra Signora de Guadaloupe.  At
this place there are certain cold baths, which arise, springing up as though the water did
seethe, the water whereof is somewhat brackish in taste, but very good for any that have any
sore or wound to wash themselves therewith, for as they say, it healeth many; and every year
once upon Our Lady Day, the people used to repair thither to offer and to pray in that church
before the image, and they say that Our Lady of Guadaloupe doth work a number of miracles.
About this church there is not any town of Spaniards that is inhabited, but certain Indians
do dwell there in houses of their own country building.

Here we were met by a great number of Spaniards on horseback, which came from Mexico to see
us, both gentlemen and men of occupations, and they came as people to see a wonder; we were
still called upon to march on, and so about four of the clock in the afternoon of the said
day, we entered into the city of Mexico by the way or street called La Calia Sancta Catherina;
and we stayed not in any place till we came to the house or palace of the Viceroy, Don Martin
Henriques, which standeth in the middest of the city, hard by the market place called La Placa
dell Marquese.  We had not stayed any long time at this place, but there was brought us by
the Spaniards from the market place great store of meat, sufficient to have satisfied five
times so many as we were; some also gave us hats, and some gave us money; in which place we
stayed for the space of two hours, and from thence we were conveyed by water into large canoas
to a hospital, where certain of our men were lodged, which were taken before the fight at St.
John de Ullua.  We should have gone to Our Lady's Hospital, but that there were also so many
of our men taken before at that fight that there was no room for us.  After our coming thither,
many of the company that came with me from Panuco died within the space of fourteen days; soon
after which time we were taken forth from that place and put all together into Our Lady's Hospital,
in which place we were courteously used, and visited oftentimes by virtuous gentlemen and gentlewomen
of the city, who brought us divers things to comfort us withal, as succats and marmalades and
such other things, and would also many times give us many things, and that very liberally.
In which hospital we remained for the space of six months, until we were all whole and sound
of body, and then we were appointed by the Viceroy to be carried unto the town of Tescuco,
which is distant from Mexico south-west eight leagues; in which town there are certain houses
of correction and punishment for ill people called obraches, like to Bridewell here in London;
in which place divers Indians are sold for slaves, some for ten years and some for twelve.
It was no small grief unto us when we understood that we should be carried thither, and to
be used as slaves; we had rather be put to death, howbeit there was no remedy, but we were
carried to the prison of Tescuco, where we were not put to any labour, but were very straightly
kept and almost famished, yet by the good providence of our merciful God, we happened there
to meet with one Robert Sweeting, who was the son of an Englishman born of a Spanish woman;
this man could speak very good English, and by his means we were holpen very much with victuals
from the Indians, as mutton, hens, and bread.  And if we had not been so relieved we had surely
perished; and yet all the provision that we had gotten that way was but slender.  And continuing
thus straightly kept in prison there for the space of two months, at the length we agreed amongst
ourselves to break forth of prison, come of it what would, for we were minded rather to suffer
death than longer to live in that miserable state.

And so having escaped out of prison, we knew not what way to fly for the safety of ourselves;
the night was dark, and it rained terribly, and not having any guide, we went we knew not whither,
and in the morning at the appearing of the day, we perceived ourselves to be come hard to the
city of Mexico, which is four and twenty English miles from Tescuco.  The day being come, we
were espied by the Spaniards, and pursued, and taken, and brought before the Viceroy and head
justices, who threatened to hang us for breaking of the king's prison.  Yet in the end they
sent us into a garden belonging to the Viceroy, and coming thither, we found there our English
gentlemen which were delivered as hostages when as our General was betrayed at St. John de
Ullua, as is aforesaid, and with them we also found Robert Barret, the master of the Jesus,
in which place we remained, labouring and doing such things as we were commanded for the space
of four months, having but two sheep a day allowed to suffice us all, being very near a hundred
men; and for bread, we had every man two loaves a day of the quantity of one halfpenny loaf.
At the end of which four months, they having removed our gentlemen hostages and the master
of the Jesus to a prison in the Viceroy his own house, did cause it to be proclaimed, that
what gentleman Spaniard soever was willing, or would have any Englishman to serve him, and
be bound to keep him forthcoming to appear before the justices within one month after notice
given, that they should repair to the said garden, and there take their choice; which proclamation
was no sooner made but the gentlemen came and repaired to the garden amain, so that happy was
he that could soonest get one of us.

THE FIFTH CHAPTER.

WHEREIN IS SHOWED IN WHAT GOOD SORT AND HOW WEALTHILY WE LIVED WITH OUR MASTERS UNTIL THE COMING
OF THE INQUISITION, WHEN AS AGAIN, OUR SORROWS BEGAN AFRESH; OF OUR IMPRISONMENT IN THE HOLY
HOUSE, AND OF THE SEVERE JUDGMENT AND SENTENCES GIVEN AGAINST US, AND WITH WHAT RIGOUR AND
CRUELTY THE SAME WERE EXECUTED.

The gentlemen that thus took us for their servants or slaves, did new apparel us throughout,
with whom we abode doing such service as they appointed us unto, which was for the most part
to attend upon them at the table, and to be as their chamberlains, and to wait upon them when
they went abroad, which they greatly accounted of, for in that country no Spaniard will serve
one another, but they are all of them attended and served by Indians weekly, and by negroes
which be their slaves during their life.  In this sort we remained and served in the said city
of Mexico and thereabouts for the space of a year and somewhat longer.  Afterwards many of
us were by our masters appointed to go to sundry of their mines where they had to do, and to
be as overseers of the negroes and Indians that laboured there.  In which mines many of us
did profit and gain greatly; for first we were allowed three hundred pezoes a man for a year,
which is three score pounds sterling, and besides that the Indians and negroes which wrought
under our charge, upon our well using and entreating of them, would at times as upon Saturdays
when they had left work labour for us, and blow as much silver as should be worth unto us three
marks or thereabouts, every mark being worth six pezoes and a half of their money, which nineteen
pezoes and a half, is worth four livres, ten shillings of our money. Sundry weeks we did gain
so much by this means besides our wages, that many of us became very rich, and were worth three
thousand or four thousand pezoes, for we lived and gained thus in those mines some three or
four years.  As concerning those gentlemen which were delivered as hostages, and that were
kept in prison in the Viceroy his house, after that we were gone from out the garden to serve
sundry gentlemen as aforesaid, they remained prisoners in the said house, for the space of
four months after their coming thither, at the end whereof the fleet, being ready to depart
from St. John de Ullua to go for Spain, the said gentlemen were sent away into Spain with the
fleet, where I have heard it credibly reported, many of them died with the cruel handling of
the Spaniards in the Inquisition house, as those which have been delivered home after they
had suffered the persecution of that house can more perfectly declare.  Robert Barret also,
master of the Jesus, was sent away with the fleet into Spain the next year following, whereafter
he suffered persecution in the Inquisition, and at the last was condemned to be burnt, and
with him three or four more of our men, of whom one was named Gregory and another John Browne,
whom I knew, for they were of our general his musicians, but the names of the rest that suffered
with them I know not.

Now after that six years there fully expired since our first coming into the Indies in which
time we had been imprisoned and served in the said countries, as is before truly declared in
the year of our Lord one thousand five hundred and seventy four, the Inquisition began to be
established in the Indies very much against the minds of many of the Spaniards themselves,
for never until this time since their first conquering and planting in the Indies, were they
subject to that bloody and cruel Inquisition.  The chief Inquisitor was named Don Pedro Moya
de Contreres, and John de Bouilla his companion, and John Sanchis the Fischall, and Pedro de
la Rios, the Secretary, they being come and settled, and placed in a very fair house, near
unto the White Friars, considering with themselves that they must make an entrance and beginning
of that their most detestable Inquisition here in Mexico to the terror of the whole country,
thought it best to call us that were Englishmen first in question, and so much the rather for
that they had perfect knowledge and intelligence, that many of us were become very rich as
hath been already declared, and therefore we were a very great booty and prey to the Inquisitors,
so that now again began our sorrows afresh, for we were sent for, and sought out in all places
of the country, and proclamation made upon pain of losing of goods, and excommunication that
no man should hide or keep secret any Englishman or any part of their goods.  By means whereof
we were all soon apprehended in all places, and all our goods seized and taken for the Inquisitors'
use, and so from all parts of the country we were conveyed and sent as prisoners to the city
of Mexico, and there committed to prison in sundry dark dungeons where we could not see but
by candlelight, and were never more than two together in one place so that we saw not one another,
neither could one of us tell what was become of another.  Thus we remained close imprisoned
for the space of a year and a half, and others for some less time, for they came to prison
ever as they were apprehended.  During which time of our imprisonment at the first beginning
we were often called before the Inquisitors alone, and there severely examined of our faith,
and commanded to say the pater noster, the Ave Maria, and the creed in Latin, which God knoweth
a great number of us could not say otherwise than in the English tongue. And having the said
Robert Sweeting who was our friend at Tescuco always present with them for an interpreter he
made report for us in our own country speech we could say them perfectly, although not word
for word as they were in Latin.  Then did they proceed to demand of us upon our oaths what
we did believe of the sacrament, and whether there did remain any bread or wine after the words
of consecration, yea or no, and whether we did not believe that the Host of bread which the
priest did hold up over his head, and the wine that was in the chalice, was the very true and
perfect body and blood of our Saviour Christ, yea or no, to which if we answered not yea, then
was there no way but death.  Then would they demand of us what we did remember of ourselves,
what opinions we had held or had been taught to hold, contrary to the same whiles we were in
England; to which we for the safety of our lives were constrained to say that we never did
believe, nor had been taught otherwise than as before we had said.  Then would they charge
us that we did not tell them the truth, that we knew to the contrary, and therefore we should
call ourselves to remembrance and make them a better answer at the next time or else we should
be racked and made to confess the truth whether we would or no.  And so coming again before
them the next time, we were still demanded of our belief whiles we were in England, and how
we had been taught, and also what we thought or did know of such of our company as they did
name unto us, so that we could never be free from such demands, and at other times they would
promise us that if we would tell them the truth, then should we have favour and be set at liberty,
although we very well knew their fair speeches were but means to entrap us to the hazard and
loss of our lives; howbeit God so mercifully wrought for us by a secret means that we had that
we kept us still to our first answer, and would still say that we had told the truth unto them,
and knew no more by ourselves nor any other of our fellows than as we had declared, and that
for our sins and offences in England against God and our Lady, or any of His blessed saints,
we were heartily sorry for the same, and did cry God mercy, and besought the Inquisitors, for
God's sake, considering that we came into those countries by force of weather, and against
our wills, and that never in all our lives we had either spoken or done anything contrary to
their laws, that therefore they would have mercy on us, yet all this would not serve, for still
from time to time we were called upon to confess, and about the space of three months, before
they proceeded to their severe Judgment, we were all racked, and some enforced to utter that
against themselves which afterwards cost them their lives.

And thus having gotten from our own mouths matter sufficient for them to proceed in judgment
against us, they caused a large scaffold to be made in the midst of the market-place in Mexico,
right over against the head church, and fourteen or fifteen days before the day of their judgment,
with the sound of a trumpet, and the noise of their attabalies, which are a kind of drums,
they did assemble the people in all parts of the city, before whom it was then solemnly proclaimed
that whosoever would upon such a day, repair to the marketplace, they should hear the sentence
of the Holy Inquisition against the English heretic Lutherans, and also see the same put in
execution.  Which being done, and the time approaching of this cruel judgment, the night before
they came to the prison where we were, with certain officers of that holy hellish house, bringing
with them certain fools' coats which they had prepared for us, being called in their language
St. Benitos, which coats were made of yellow cotton and red crosses upon them, both before
and behind; they were so busied in putting on their coats about us and in bringing us out into
a large yard, and placing and pointing us in what order we should go to the scaffold or place
of judgment upon the morrow, that they did not once suffer us to sleep all that night long.

The next morning being come, there was given to every one of us for our breakfast, a cup of
wine, and a slice of bread fried in honey, and so about eight of the clock in the morning,
we set forth of the prison, every man alone in his yellow coat and a rope about his neck, and
a great green wax candle in his hand unlighted, having a Spaniard appointed to go upon either
side of every one of us; and so marching in this order and manner towards the scaffold in the
market-place, which was a bow-shot distant or thereabouts, we found a great assembly of people
all the way, and such throng, that certain of the Inquisitors' officers on horseback were constrained
to make way, and so coming to the scaffold we went up by a pair of stairs, and found seats
ready made and prepared for us to sit down on, every man in order as he should be called to
receive his judgment.  We being thus set down as we were appointed, presently the Inquisitors
came up another pair of stairs, and the Viceroy and all the chief justices with them.  When
they were set down and placed under the cloth of estate agreeing to their degrees and calling,
then came up also a great number of friars, white, black, and grey, about the number of 300
persons, they being set in the places for them appointed.  Then was there a solemn Oyes made,
and silence commanded, and then presently began their severe and cruel judgment.

The first man that was called was one Roger, the chief armourer of the Jesus, and he had judgment
to have 300 stripes on horseback, and after condemned to the galleys as a slave for ten years.

After him was called John Gray, John Browne, John Rider, John Moone, James Collier, and one
Thomas Browne.  These were adjudged to have 200 stripes on horseback, and after to be committed
to the galleys for the space of eight years.

Then was called John Keies, and was adjudged to have 100 stripes on horseback, and condemned
to serve in the galleys for the space of six years.

Then were severally called the number of fifty-three, one after another, and every man had
his several judgment, some to have 200 stripes on horseback and some 100, and some condemned
for slaves to the galleys, some for six years, some for eight, and some for ten.

And then was I, Miles Phillips, called, and was adjudged to serve in a monastery for five years,
without any stripes, and to wear a fool's coat or San Benito, during all that time.

Then were called John Storie, Richard Williams, David Alexander, Robert Cooke, and Horsewell,
and Thomas Hull.  These six were condemned to serve in monasteries without stripes, some for
three years, and some for four, and to wear the San Benito during all the said time.  Which
being done, and it now drawing towards night, George Rivelie, Peter Momfrie, and Cornelius
the Irishman were called, and had their judgment to be burnt to ashes, and so were presently
sent away to the place of execution in the market-place, but a little from the scaffold, where
they were quickly burnt and consumed.  And as for us that had received our judgment, being
sixty-eight in number, we were carried back that night to prison again, and the next day in
the morning, being Good Friday, the year of our Lord, 1575, we were all brought into a court
of the Inquisitors' Palace, where we found a horse in readiness for every one of our men which
were condemned to have stripes, and to be committed to the galleys, which were in number sixty,
and so they, being enforced to mount up on horseback, naked, from the middle upward, were carried
to be showed as a spectacle for all the people to behold throughout the chief and principal
streets of the city, and had the number of stripes to every one of them appointed, most cruelly
laid upon their naked bodies with long whips, by sundry men appointed to be the executioners
thereof, and before our men there went a couple of criers, which cried as they went, "Behold
these English dogs, Lutherans, enemies to God," and all the way as they went, there were some
of the Inquisitors themselves, and of the familiars of that rake-hell order, that cried to
the executioners, "Strike, lay on those English heretics, Lutherans, God's enemies;" and so
this horrible spectacle being showed round about the city, and they returned to the Inquisitors'
House, with their backs all gore blood and swollen with great bumps.  They were then taken
from their horses and carried again to prison, where they remained until they were sent into
Spain to the galleys, there to receive the rest of their martyrdom; and I, and the six other
with me, which had judgment and were condemned among the rest to serve an apprenticeship in
the monasteries, were taken presently and sent to certain religious houses appointed for the
purpose.

THE SIXTH CHAPTER.

WHEREIN IS SHOWED HOW WE WERE USED IN THE RELIGIOUS HOUSES, AND THAT WHEN THE TIME WAS EXPIRED
THAT WE WERE ADJUDGED TO SERVE IN THEM, THERE CAME NEWS TO MEXICO OF MASTER FRANCIS DRAKE'S
BEING IN THE SOUTH SEA, AND WHAT PREPARATION WAS MADE TO TAKE HIM; AND HOW I, SEEKING TO ESCAPE,
WAS AGAIN TAKEN AND PUT IN PRISON IN VERA CRUZ, AND HOW AGAIN I MADE MINE ESCAPE FROM THENCE.

I, Miles Phillips, and William Lowe were appointed to the Black Friars, where I was appointed
to be an overseer of Indian workmen, who wrought there in building a new church, amongst which
Indians I learned their language or Mexican tongue very perfectly, and had great familiarity
with many of them, whom I found to be a courteous and loving kind of people, ingenious, and
of great understanding, and they hate and abhor the Spaniards with all their hearts.  They
have used such horrible cruelties against them, and do still keep them in such subjection and
servitude, that they and the negroes also do daily lie in wait to practice their deliverance
out of that thraldom and bondage that the Spaniards do keep them in.

William Lowe, he was appointed to serve the cook in the kitchen; Richard Williams and David
Alexander were appointed to the Grey Friars; John Storey and Robert Cooke to the White Friars;
Paul Horsewell the Secretary took to be his servant; Thomas Hull was sent to a monastery of
priests, where afterward he died.  Thus we served out the years that we were condemned for,
with the use of our fools' coats, and we must needs confess that the friars did use us very
courteously, for every one of us had his chamber, with bedding and diet, and all things clean
and neat; yea, many of the Spaniards and friars themselves do utterly abhor and mislike of
that cruel Inquisition, and would as they durst bewail our miseries, and comfort us the best
they could, although they stood in such fear of that devilish Inquisition that they durst not
let the left hand know what the right doeth.

Now after that the time was expired for which we were condemned to serve in those religious
houses, we were then brought again before the Chief Inquisitor, and had all our fools' coats
pulled off and hanged up in the head church, called Ecclesia Majora, and every man's name and
judgment written thereupon with this addition--HERETIC LUTHERAN RECONCILED.  And there are
also all their coats hanged up which were condemned to the galleys, with their names and judgments,
and underneath his coat, HERETIC LUTHERAN RECONCILED.  And also the coats and names of the
three that were burned, whereupon were written, AN OBSTINATE HERETIC LUTHERAN BURNT.  Then
were we suffered to go up and down the country, and to place ourselves as we could, and yet
not so free but that we very well knew that there was a good espial always attending us and
all our actions, so that we durst not once to speak or look awry.  David Alexander and Robert
Cooke they returned to serve the Inquisitor, who shortly after married them both to two of
his negro women; Richard Williams married a rich widow of Biskay with four thousand pezoes;
Paul Horsewell is married to a Mestiza, as they name those whose fathers were Spaniards and
their mothers Indians, and this woman which Paul Horsewell hath married is said to be the daughter
of one that came in with Hernando Cortes, the Conqueror, who had with her in marriage four
thousand pezoes and a fair house; John Storie he is married to a negro woman; William Lowe
had leave and licence to go into Spain, where he is now married.  For mine own part I could
never thoroughly settle myself to marry in that country, although many fair offers were made
unto me of such as were of great ability and wealth; but I could have no liking to live in
that place where I must everywhere see and know such horrible idolatry committed, and durst
not once for my life speak against it; and therefore I had always a longing and desire to this
my native country; and to return and serve again in the mines, where I might have gathered
great riches and wealth, I very well saw that at one time or another I should fall again into
the danger of that devilish Inquisition, and so be stripped of all, with loss of life also,
and therefore I made my choice rather to learn to weave Groganes and Taffataes, and so compounding
with a silk weaver, I bound myself for three years to serve him, and gave him one hundred and
fifty pezoes to teach me the science, otherwise he would not have taught me under seven years'
prenticeship, and by this means I lived the more quiet and free from suspicion.

Howbeit I should many times be charged by familiars of that devilish house, that I had a meaning
to run away into England, and be an heretic Lutheran again; to whom I would answer that they
had no need to suspect any such thing in me, for that they knew all very well that it was impossible
for me to escape by any manner of means; yet notwithstanding I was called before the Inquisitors
and demanded why I did not marry. I answered that I had bound myself at an occupation.  "Well,"
said the Inquisitor, "I know thou meanest to run away, and therefore I charge thee here upon
pain of burning as an heretic relapsed, that thou depart not out of this city, nor come near
to the port of St. John de Ullua, nor to any other port;" to the which I answered that I would
willingly obey.  "Yea," said he, "see thou do so, and thy fellows also; they shall have the
like charge."

So I remained at my science the full time and learned the art, at the end whereof there came
news to Mexico that there were certain Englishmen landed with a great power at the port of
Acapulco, upon the South Sea, and that they were coming to Mexico to take the spoil thereof,
which wrought a marvellous great fear among them, and many of those that were rich began to
shift for themselves, their wives and children; upon which hurly-burly the Viceroy caused a
general muster to be made of all the Spaniards in Mexico, and there were found to the number
of seven thousand and odd householders of Spaniards in the city and suburbs, and of single
men unmarried the number of three thousand, and of Mestizies--which are counted to be the sons
of Spaniards born of Indian women--twenty thousand persons; and then was Paul Horsewell and
I, Miles Phillips, sent for before the Viceroy and were examined if we did know an Englishman
named Francis Drake, which was brother to Captain Hawkins; to which we answered that Captain
Hawkins had not any brother but one, which was a man of the age of threescore years or thereabouts,
and was now governor of Plymouth in England.  And then he demanded of us if we knew one Francis
Drake, and we answered no.

While these things were in doing, there came news that all the Englishmen were gone; yet was
there eight hundred men made out under the leading of several captains, whereof two hundred
were sent to the port of St. John de Ullua, upon the North Sea, under the conduct of Don Luis
Suares; two hundred were sent to Guatemala, in the South Sea, who had for their captain John
Cortes; two hundred more were sent to Guatelco, a port of the South Sea, over whom went for
captain Don Pedro de Roblis; and two hundred more were sent to Acapulco, the port where it
was said that Captain Drake had been, and they had for captain Doctor Roblis Alcalde de Corte,
with whom I, Miles Phillips, went as interpreter, having licence given by the Inquisitors.
When we were come to Acapulco we found that Captain Drake was departed from thence, more than
a month before we came thither.  But yet our captain, Alcalde de Corte, there presently embarked
himself in a small ship of threescore ton, or thereabout, having also in company with him two
other small barques, and not past two hundred men in all, with whom I went as interpreter in
his own ship, which, God knoweth, was but weak and ill-appointed; so that for certain, if we
had met with Captain Drake, he might easily have taken us all.

We, being embarked, kept our course, and ran southward towards Panama, keeping still as nigh
the shore as we could; and leaving the land upon our left hand, and having coasted thus for
the space of eighteen or twenty days, and were more to the south than Guatemala, we met at
last with other ships which came from Panama, of whom we were certainly informed that he was
clean gone off the coast more than a month before; and so we returned back to Acapulco again,
and there landed, our captain being thereunto forced, because his men were very sore sea-sick.
All the while that I was at sea with them I was a glad man, for I hoped that if we met with
Master Drake we should all be taken, so that then I should have been freed out of that danger
and misery wherein I lived, and should return to mine own country of England again.  But missing
thereof, when I saw there was no remedy but that we must needs come on land again, little doth
any man know the sorrow and grief that inwardly I felt, although outwardly I was constrained
to make fair weather of it.

And so, being landed, the next morrow after we began our journey towards Mexico, and passed
these towns of name in our way, as first the town of Tuatepec, fifty leagues from Mexico; from
thence to Washaca, forty leagues from Mexico; from thence to Tepiaca, twenty-four leagues from
Mexico; and from thence to Lopueblo de Los Angelos, where is a high hill which casteth out
fire three times a day, which hill is eighteen leagues directly west from Mexico; from thence
we went to Stapelata, eight leagues from Mexico, and there our captain and most of his men
took boat and came to Mexico again, having been forth about the space of seven weeks, or thereabouts.

Our captain made report to the Viceroy what he had done, and how far he had travelled, and
that for certain he was informed that Captain Drake was not to be heard of.  To which the Viceroy
replied and said, surely we shall have him shortly come into our hands, driven on land through
necessity in some one place or other, for he, being now in these seas of Sur, it is not possible
for him to get out of them again; so that if he perish not at sea, yet hunger will force him
to land.  And then again I was commanded by the Viceroy that I should not depart from the city
of Mexico, but always be at my master's house in a readiness at an hour's warning, whensoever
I should be called for.  Notwithstanding that, within one month after, certain Spaniards going
to Mecameca, eighteen leagues from Mexico, to send away certain hides and cuchionelio that
they had there at their stantias, or dairy houses, and my master having leave of the secretary
for me to go with them, I took my journey with them, being very well horsed and appointed;
and coming thither, and passing the time there at Mecameca certain days, till we had certain
intelligence that the fleet was ready to depart, I, not being more than three days' journey
from the port of St. John de Ullua, thought it to be the meetest time for me to make an escape,
and I was the bolder presuming upon my Spanish tongue, which I spake as naturally as any of
them all, thinking with myself that when I came to St. John de Ullua I would get to be entertained
as a soldier, and so go home into Spain in the same fleet; and, therefore, secretly one evening
late, the moon shining fair, I conveyed myself away, and riding so for the space of two nights
and two days, sometimes in, and sometimes out, resting very little all that time, upon the
second day at night I came to the town of Vera Cruz, distant from the port of St. John de Ullua,
where the ships rode, but only eight leagues; and here purposing to rest myself a day or two,
I was no sooner alighted but within the space of one half hour after I was by ill hap arrested,
and brought before justices there, being taken and suspected to be a gentleman's son of Mexico
that was run away from his father.  So I, being arrested and brought before the justices, there
was a great hurly-burly about the matter, every man charging me that I was the son of such
a man, dwelling in Mexico, which I flatly denied, affirming that I knew not the man; yet would
they not believe me, but urged still upon me that I was he that they sought for, and so I was
conveyed away to prison.  And as I was thus going to prison, to the further increase of my
grief, it chanced that at that very instant there was a poor man in the press that was come
to town to sell hens, who told the justices that they did me wrong, and that in truth he knew
very well that I was an Englishman, and no Spaniard.  Then they demanded of him how he knew
that, and threatened him that he said so for that he was my companion, and sought to convey
me away from my father, so that he also was threatened to be laid in prison with me.  He, for
the discharge of himself, stood stiffly in it that I was an Englishman, and one of Captain
Hawkins's men, and that he had known me wear the San Benito in the Black Friars at Mexico for
three or four whole years together; which when they heard they forsook him, and began to examine
me anew, whether that speech of his were true, yea or no; which when they perceived that I
could not deny, and perceiving that I was run from Mexico, and came thither of purpose to convey
myself away with the fleet, I was presently committed to prison with a sorrowful heart, often
wishing myself that that man which knew me had at that time been further off.  Howbeit, he
in sincerity had compassion of my distressed state, thinking by his speech, and knowing of
me, to have set me free from that present danger which he saw me in.  Howbeit, contrary to
his expectation, I was thereby brought into my extreme danger, and to the hazard of my life,
yet there was no remedy but patience, perforce; and I was no sooner brought into prison but
I had a great pair of bolts clapped on my legs, and thus I remained in that prison for the
space of three weeks, where were also many other prisoners, which were thither committed for
sundry crimes and condemned to the galleys.  During which time of imprisonment there I found
amongst those my prison fellows some that had known me before in Mexico, and truly they had
compassion of me, and would spare of their victuals and anything else that they had to do me
good, amongst whom there was one of them that told me that he understood by a secret friend
of his which often came to the prison to him that I should be shortly sent back again to Mexico
by waggon, so soon as the fleet was gone from St. John de Ullua for Spain.

This poor man, my prison fellow, of himself, and without any request made by me, caused his
said friend, which came often unto him to the grate of the prison, to bring him wine and victuals,
to buy for him two knives which had files in their backs, which files were so well made that
they would serve and suffice any prisoner to file off his irons, and of those knives or files
he brought one to me, and told me that he had caused it to be made for me, and let me have
it at the very price it cost him, which was two pezoes, the value of eight shillings of our
money, which knife when I had it I was a joyful man, and conveyed the same into the foot of
my boot upon the inside of my left leg, and so within three or four days after that I had thus
received my knife I was suddenly called for, and brought before the head justice, which caused
those my irons with the round bolt to be stricken off, and sent to a smith in the town, where
was a new pair of bolts made ready for me of another fashion, which had a broad iron bar coming
between the shackles, and caused my hands to be made fast with a pair of manacles, and so was
I presently laid into a waggon all alone, which was there ready to depart, with sundry other
waggons to the number of sixty, towards Mexico, and they were all laden with sundry merchandise
which came in the fleet out of Spain.

The waggon that I was in was foremost of all the company, and as we travelled, I being alone
in the waggon, began to try if I could pluck my hands out of the manacles, and as God would,
although it were somewhat painful for me, yet my hands were so slender that I could pull them
out and put them in again, and ever as we went when the waggons made most noise and the men
busiest, I would be working to file off my bolts, and travelling thus for the space of eight
leagues from Vera Cruz we came to an high hill, at the entering up of which (as God would),
one of the wheels of the waggon wherein I was brake, so that by that means the other waggons
went afore, and the waggon man that had charge of me set an Indian carpenter at work to mend
the wheel; and here at this place they baited at an ostrie that a negro woman keeps, and at
this place for that the going up of the hill is very steep for the space of two leagues and
better, they do always accustom to take the mules of three or four waggons and to place them
all together for the drawing up of one waggon, and so to come down again and fetch up others
in that order.  All which came very well to pass, for as it drew towards night, when most of
the waggoners were gone to draw up their waggons in this sort, I being alone, had quickly filed
off my bolts, and so espying my time in the dark of the evening before they returned down the
hill again, I conveyed myself into the woods there adjoining, carrying my bolts and manacles
with me, and a few biscuits and two small cheeses.  And being come into the woods I threw my
irons into a thick bush, and then covered them with moss and other things, and then shifted
for myself as I might all that night.  And thus, by the good providence of Almighty God, I
was freed from mine irons, all saving the collar that was about my neck, and so got my liberty
the second time.

THE SEVENTH CHAPTER.

WHEREIN IS SHOWED HOW I ESCAPED TO GUATEMALA UPON THE SOUTH SEA, AND FROM THENCE TO THE PORT
OF CAVALLOS, WHERE I GOT PASSAGE TO GO INTO SPAIN, AND OF OUR ARRIVAL AT THE HAVANA AND OUR
COMING TO SPAIN, WHERE I WAS AGAIN LIKE  TO HAVE BEEN COMMITTED PRISONER, AND HOW THROUGH THE
GREAT MERCY OF GOD I ESCAPED AND CAME HOME IN SAFETY INTO ENGLAND IN FEBRUARY, 1582.

The next morning (daylight being come) I perceived by the sun rising what way to take to escape
their hands, for when I fled I took the way into the woods upon the left hand, and having left
that way that went to Mexico upon my right hand, I thought to keep my course as the woods and
mountains lay still direct south as near as I could; by means whereof I was sure to convey
myself far enough from that way which went to Mexico.  And as I was thus going in the woods
I saw many great fires made to the north not past a league from the mountain where I was, and
travelling thus in my boots, with mine iron collar about my neck, and my bread and cheese,
the very same forenoon I met with a company of Indians which were hunting of deer for their
sustenance, to whom I spake in the Mexican tongue, and told them how that I had of a long time
been kept in prison by the cruel Spaniards, and did desire them to help me file off mine iron
collar, which they willingly did, rejoicing greatly with me that I was thus escaped out of
the Spaniards' hands. Then I desired that I might have one of them to guide out of those desert
mountains towards the south, which they also most willingly did, and so they brought me to
an Indian town eight leagues distance from thence named Shalapa, where I stayed three days;
for that I was somewhat sickly.  At which town (with the gold that I had quilted in my doublet)
I bought me an horse of one of the Indians, which cost me six pezoes, and so travelling south
within the space of two leagues I happened to overtake a Grey Friar, one that I had been familiar
withal in Mexico, whom then I knew to be a zealous, good man, and one that did much lament
the cruelty used against us by the Inquisitors, and truly he used me very courteously; and
I, having confidence in him, did indeed tell him that I was minded to adventure to see if I
could get out of the said country if I could find shipping, and did therefore pray him of his
aid, direction, and advice herein, which he faithfully did, not only in directing me which
was any safest way to travel, but he also of himself kept me company for the space of three
days, and ever as we came to the Indians' houses (who used and entertained us well), he gathered
among them in money to the value of twenty pezoes, which at my departure from him he freely
gave unto me.

So came I to the city of Guatemala upon the South Sea, which is distant from Mexico about 250
leagues, where I stayed six days, for that my horse was weak, and from thence I travelled still
south and by east seven days' journey, passing by certain Indian towns until I came to an Indian
town distant from Mexico direct south 309 leagues.  And here at this town inquiring to go to
the port of Cavallos in the north-east sea, it was answered that in travelling thither I should
not come to any town in ten or twelve days' journey; so here I hired two Indians to be my guides,
and I bought hens and bread to serve us so long time, and took with us things to kindle fire
every night because of wild beasts, and to dress our meat; and every night when we rested my
Indian guides would make two great fires, between the which we placed ourselves and my horse.
And in the night time we should hear the lions roar, with tigers, ounces, and other beasts,
and some of them we should see in the night which had eyes shining like fire.  And travelling
thus for the space of twelve days, we came at last to the port of Cavallos upon the east sea,
distant from Guatemala south and by east 200 leagues, and from Mexico 450 or thereabouts. 
This is a good harbour for ships, and is without either castle or bulwark.  I having despatched
away my guides, went down to the haven, where I saw certain ships laden chiefly with canary
wine, where I spake with one of the masters, who asked me what countryman I was, and I told
him that I was born in Granada, and he said that then I was his countryman.  I required him
that I might pass home with him in his ship, paying for my passage; and he said yea, so that
I had a safe conduct or letter testimonial to show that he might incur no danger; for, said
he, "it may be that you have killed some man, or be indebted, and you would therefore run away."
To that I answered that there was not any such cause.

Well, in the end we grew to a price that for 60 pezoes he would carry me into Spain.  A glad
man was I at this good hap, and I quickly sold my horse, and made my provision of hens and
bread to serve me in my passage; and thus within two days after we set sail, and never stayed
until we came to the Havana, which is distant from port de Cavallos by sea 500 leagues, where
we found the whole fleet of Spain, which was bound home from the Indies.  And here I was hired
for a soldier, to serve in the admiral ship of the same fleet, wherein the general himself went.

There landed while I was here four ships out of Spain, being all full of soldiers and ordnance,
of which number there were 200 men landed here, and four great brass pieces of ordnance, although
the castle were before sufficiently provided; 200 men more were sent to Campechy, and certain
ordnance; 200 to Florida with ordnance; and 100 lastly to St. John de Ullua.  As for ordnance,
there they have sufficient, and of the very same which was ours which we had in the Jesus,
and those others which we had planted in the place, where the Viceroy betrayed Master Hawkins,
our general, as hath been declared.  The sending of those soldiers to every of those posts,
and the strengthening of them, was done by commandment from the King of Spain, who wrote also
by them to the general of his fleet, giving him in charge so to do, as also directing him what
course he should keep in his coming home into Spain, charging him at any hand not to come nigh
to the isles of Azores, but to keep his course more to the northward, advertising him withal
what number and power of French ships of war and other Don Anthony had at that time at the
Tercera and isles aforesaid, which the general of the fleet well considering, and what great
store of riches he had to bring home with him into Spain, did in all very dutifully observe
and obey; for in truth he had in his said fleet 37 sail of ships, and in every of them there
was as good as 30 pipes of silver, one with another, besides great store of gold, cochineal,
sugars, hides, and Cana Fistula, with other apothecary drugs.  This our general, who was called
Don Pedro de Guzman, did providently take order for, for their most strength and defence, if
needs should be, to the uttermost of his power, and commanded upon pain of death that neither
passenger or soldier should come aboard without his sword and harquebuse, with shot and powder,
to the end that they might be the better able to encounter the fleet of Don Anthony if they
should hap to meet with them, or any of them.  And ever as the weather was fair, this said
general would himself go aboard from one ship to another to see that every man had his full
provision according to the commandment given.

Yet to speak truly what I think, two good tall ships of war would have made a foul spoil amongst
them, for in all this fleet there were not any that were strong and warlike appointed, saving
only the admiral and vice-admiral.  And again, over and besides the weakness and ill-furnishing
of the rest, they were all so deeply laden, that they had not been able (even if they had been
charged) to have held out any long fight.  Well, thus we set sail, and had a very ill passage
home, the weather was so contrary.  We kept our course in manner northeast, and brought ourselves
to the height of 42 degrees of latitude, to be sure not to meet with Don Anthony his fleet,
and were upon our voyage from the 4th of June until the 10th of September, and never saw land
till we fell with the Arenas Gordas hard by St. Lucar.

And there was an order taken that none should go on shore until he had a licence; as for me,
I was known by one in the ship, who told the master that I was an Englishman, which (as God
would) was my good hap to hear; for if I had not heard it, it had cost me my life. Notwithstanding,
I would not take any knowledge of it, and seemed to be merry and pleasant that we were all
come so well in safety.  Presently after, licence came that we should go on shore, and I pressed
to be gone with the first; howbeit, the master came unto me and said, "Sirrah, you must go
with me to Seville by water."  I knew his meaning well enough, and that he meant there to offer
me up as a sacrifice to the Holy House.  For the ignorant zeal of a number of these superstitious
Spaniards is such that they think that they have done God good service when they have brought
a Lutheran heretic to the fire to be burnt; for so they do account of us.  Well, I perceiving
all this, took upon me not to suspect anything, but was still jocund and merry, howbeit I knew
it stood me upon to shift for myself.  And so waiting my time when the master was in his cabin
asleep, I conveyed myself secretly down by the shrouds into the ship boat, and made no stay,
but cut the rope wherewithal she was moored, and so by the cable hailed on shore, where I leapt
on land, and let the boat go whither it would. Thus by the help of God I escaped that day,
and then never stayed at St. Lucar, but went all night by the way which I had seen others take
towards Seville.  So that the next morning I came to Seville, and sought me out a workmaster,
that I might fall to my science, which was weaving of taffaetas, and being entertained I set
myself close to my work, and durst not for my life once to stir abroad, for fear of being known,
and being thus at my work, within four days after I heard one of my fellows say that he heard
there was great inquiry made for an Englishman that came home in the fleet.  "What, an heretic
Lutheran (quoth I), was it?  I would to God I might know him.  Surely I would present him to
the Holy House."  And thus I kept still within doors at my work, and feigned myself not well
at ease, and that I would labour as I might to get me new clothes.  And continuing thus for
the space of three months, I called for my wages, and bought me all things new, different from
the apparel that I did wear at sea, and yet durst not be over bold to walk abroad; and after
understanding that there were certain English ships at St. Lucar, bound for England, I took
a boat and went aboard one of them, and desired the master that I might have passage with him
to go into England, and told him secretly that I was one of those which Captain Hawkins did
set on shore in the Indies.  He very courteously prayed me to have him excused, for he durst
not meddle with me, and prayed me therefore to return from whence I came.  Which then I perceived
with a sorrowful heart, God knoweth, I took my leave of him, not without watery cheeks.  And
then I went to St. Mary Port, which is three leagues from St. Lucar, where I put myself to
be a soldier in the King of Spain's galleys, which were bound for Majorca and coming thither
in the end of the Christmas holidays I found there two English ships, the one of London, and
the other of the west country, which were ready freighted, and stayed but for a fair wind.
To the master of the one which was of the west country went I, and told him that I had been
two years in Spain to learn the language, and that I was now desirous to go home and see my
friends, for that I lacked maintenance, and so having agreed with him for my passage I took
my shipping.  And thus, through the providence of Almighty God, after sixteen years' absence,
having sustained many and sundry great troubles and miseries, as by this discourse appeareth,
I came home to this my native country in England in the year 1582, in the month of February
in the ship called the Landret, and arrived at Poole.

