Phillips Brooks often said that he had to preach rapidly, or not at all. In youth he had suffered
from something resembling an impediment in his speech, and more measured utterance gave it
a chance to recur. Certainly, no one who ever listened to his fluent and limpid utterance would
have suspected it. But he was far more than a great preacher. By his broad tolerance, his lofty
character and immense personal influence, he became, in a way, a national figure, the common
property of the nation which felt itself the richer for possessing him. A gracious and courtly
figure, with a heart as wide as the human race, he lives, somehow, as the true type of clergyman,
whose concern is humanity and whose field the world.

Which brings us to the life of the last man we shall consider in this chapter, a man the opposite
in many ways of the great clergyman whose career we have just noted, and yet, like him, of
broadest sympathies and most sincere convictions; a man whose life was more picturesque, whose
battle against fate was harder, and whose achievement was even more remarkable--the greatest
evangelist the modern world has ever produced, Dwight L. Moody. If ever a man labored for his
fellow-men, he did, and the story of his life reads almost like a romance.

He was born at Northfield, Massachusetts, in 1837, the son of a stone-mason, who, disheartened
and worn out by business reverses, died when the boy was only four years old. There were nine
children, the oldest only fifteen, and when the father's creditors came and took every possession
they had in the world, the future looked dark indeed. The mother was urged to place the children
in various homes, but she managed to keep them together by doing housework for the neighbors
and tilling a little garden.

As soon as he was old enough, Dwight was put to work on a farm, but his earnings were small,
and finally, when he was seventeen, he started for Boston to look for something better. He
managed to get a position in a shoe-store, and there came under the influence of Edward Kimball,
who persuaded him to become a Christian and to join a church. But he was not admitted to membership
for nearly a year; so poor was his command of language and so awkward his sentences that it
was doubted if he understood Christianity at all, and even when he was admitted, the committee
stated that they thought him "very unlikely ever to become a Christian of clear and decided
views of gospel truth; still less to fill any extended sphere of public usefulness." How blind,
indeed, we often are to the possibilities in human nature!

At the age of nineteen, Dwight removed to Chicago, secured another position as shoe-salesman,
and offered his services to a mission school as a teacher. His appearance made anything but
a favorable impression, but finally he was told that he might teach provided he brought his
own scholars. The next Sunday he walked in at the head of a score of ragamuffins he had gathered
up along the wharves. The divine fire seems to have been working in him; he was finding words
with which to express himself, and burning for a wider field. So he rented a room in the slum
districts which had been used as a saloon and opened a Sunday school there. It was an immense
success, soon outgrew the little room, and was removed to a large hall, where, every Sunday,
a thousand boys and girls attended. For six years, Moody conducted that school, sweeping it
out and doing the janitor work himself, attending to his business as salesman throughout the
week. But in 1860, at the age of twenty-three, he decided to devote all his time to Christian work.

He had no income, and to keep his expenses as low as possible, he slept at night on a bench
in his school, and cooked his own food. Then the Civil War began, and he erected a tent at
the camp near Chicago where the recruits were gathered, and labored there all day, sometimes
holding eight or ten meetings. He went with the men to the front, and was at the desperate
battles of Shiloh, Murfreesboro, and Chattanooga. The war over, he took up again his work in
Chicago. The great fire of 1871 swept away his church, but he soon had a temporary structure
erected, and labored on.

By this time, his fame had got abroad, and finally in 1873, his great opportunity came. Accompanied
by Ira D. Sankey, the famous singer of hymns, he started on an evangelist tour of Great Britain.
At his first meeting only four people were present; at his last, thirty thousand crowded to
hear him. In Ireland, the crowds sometimes covered six acres, and during the four months he
spent in London, over two million people heard him preach. Great Britain had never before experienced
such a religious awakening; but it was as nothing to the reception given him when he returned
to America two years later. There are many people still living who remember those wonderful
revivals in Philadelphia, New York, and Boston, with their great choirs, and Ira Sankey's singing,
and Moody's soul-stirring talks. From that time forward he was easily the first evangelist
in the world--perhaps the greatest the world had ever seen.

It is doubtful if any man ever faced and preached to so many people. He spoke to thousands
night after night, week in and week out. In his themes he kept close to life, and few men were
his equal in making scriptural biography vivid and realistic; in reconstructing scriptural
scenes and setting them, as it were, bodily before his audience. He was not a cultured man,
as we understand the word--not a man of broad learning; perhaps such learning would only have
weakened him--nor did he have the presence and voice which go so far toward the equipment of
the orator. But he burned with an intense conviction, and his sermons were so free from art,
so direct, so persuasive, that they were perfectly adapted to the end he sought--the conversion
of human beings.

SUMMARY

GIRARD, STEPHEN. Born near Bordeaux, France, May 24, 1750; sailed as cabin-boy to West Indies,
and then to America; established in Philadelphia, 1769; financial mainstay of government in
war of 1812; died at Philadelphia, December 26, 1831.

SMITHSON, JAMES LEWIS MACIE. Born in France in 1765; matriculated from Pembroke College, Oxford,
England, 1782; Fellow Royal Society, 1786; distinguished as student of mineralogy and chemistry;
died at Genoa, Italy, June 27, 1829.

COOPER, PETER. Born at New York City, February 12, 1791; apprenticed to carriage-maker, 1808;
engaged in various enterprises and established Canton Iron Works, Canton, Maryland, 1830; Greenback
candidate for President, 1876; died at New York, April 4, 1883.

PEABODY, GEORGE. Born at Danvers, Massachusetts, February 18, 1795; settled in London as a
banker, 1837; died there, November 4, 1869.

HOPKINS, JOHNS. Born at Waterbury, Connecticut, May 19, 1795; founded house of Hopkins & Brothers,
1822; chairman of finance committee Baltimore & Ohio railroad, 1855; died at Baltimore, December
24, 1873.

CORNELL, EZRA. Born at Westchester Landing, New York, January 11, 1807; mechanic and miller
at Ithaca, New York, 1828-41; member of State Assembly, 1862-63; State Senator, 1864-67; died
at Ithaca, New York, December 9, 1874.

SLATER, JOHN FOX. Born at Slatersville, Rhode Island, March 4, 1815; established Slater Fund,
1882; died at Norwich, Connecticut, May 7, 1884.

STANFORD, LELAND. Born at Watervliet, New York, March 9, 1824; Republican governor of California,
1861-63; United States Senator, 1885-93; died at Palo Alto, California, June 20, 1893.

ROCKEFELLER, JOHN DAVISON. Born at Richford, New York, July 8, 1839; partner of Clark & Rockefeller,
1858; built Standard Oil Works, Cleveland, Ohio, 1865; organized Standard Oil Company, 1870;
Standard Oil Trust, 1882.

CARNEGIE, ANDREW. Born at Dunfermline, Fifeshire, Scotland, November 25, 1837; came to United
States, 1848; telegraph messenger boy, 1851; introduced Bessemer steel process to America,
1868; formed Carnegie Steel Company, 1899; merged into United States Steel Corporation, 1901,
when he retired from business.

BEECHER, LYMAN. Born at New Haven, Connecticut, October 12, 1775; pastor of various Congregational
churches, 1799-1832; president Lane Theological Seminary, 1832-51; died at Brooklyn, New York,
January 10, 1863.

BEECHER, HENRY WARD. Born at Litchfield, Connecticut, June 24, 1813; graduated at Amherst,
1834; pastor of Plymouth Congregational Church, Brooklyn, 1847-87; founder of the Independent
and the Christian Union; died at Brooklyn, March 8, 1887.

CHANNING, WILLIAM ELLERY. Born at Newport, Rhode Island, April 7, 1780; graduated at Harvard,
1798; pastor of Federal Street Church, Boston, 1803-42; died at Bennington, Vermont, October
2, 1842.

JUDSON, ADONIRAM. Born at Malden, Massachusetts, August 9, 1788; graduated at Brown, 1807;
started as missionary to Burmah, 1812, and remained in far East until his death, April 12, 1850.

MOTT, LUCRETIA. Born at Nantucket, Massachusetts, January 3, 1793; entered ministry of Friends,
1818; assisted at formation of American anti-slavery society, 1833; called first woman suffrage
convention, 1848; died near Philadelphia, November 11, 1880.

DIX, DOROTHEA LYNDE. Born at Worcester, Massachusetts, 1805; devoted her whole life to work
for paupers, convicts, and insane persons; superintendent of hospital nurses during Civil War;
died at Trenton, New Jersey, July 19, 1887.

CHILD, LYDIA MARIA. Born at Medford, Massachusetts, February 11, 1802; editor National Anti-Slavery
Standard, 1840-43; published a number of novels; died at Wayland, Massachusetts, October 20, 1880.

GARRISON, WILLIAM LLOYD. Born at Newburyport, Massachusetts, December 10, 1805; began publication
of the Liberator, 1831; president American Anti-Slavery Society, 1843-65; died at New York
City, May 24, 1879.

PARKER, THEODORE. Born at Lexington, Massachusetts, August 24, 1810; studied at Cambridge Divinity
School, 1834-36; Unitarian clergyman at Roxbury, 1837; head of an independent society at Music
Hall, Boston, 1846; died at Florence, Italy, May 10, 1860.

PHILLIPS, WENDELL. Born at Boston, November 29, 1811; educated at Harvard; admitted to the
bar, 1834; leading orator of the Abolitionists, 1837-61; president of the Anti-Slavery Society,
1865-70; Prohibitionist candidate for governor of Massachusetts, 1870; died at Boston, February
2, 1884.

ANTHONY, SUSAN BROWNELL. Born at South Adams, Massachusetts, February 15, 1820; became agitator
in cause of woman suffrage, organized National American Woman Suffrage Association and was
its president for many years; died March 13, 1906.

STANTON, ELIZABETH CADY. Born at Johnstown, New York, November 12, 1815; graduated at Willard
Seminary, 1832; met Lucretia Mott, 1840; held first woman's suffrage convention, 1848; associated
with Susan B. Anthony; died at New York City, October 26, 1902.

BROWN, JOHN. Born at Torrington, Connecticut, May 9, 1800; removed with parents to Ohio, 1805;
emigrated to Kansas, 1855; won battle of Osawatomie, August, 1856; seized arsenal at Harper's
Ferry, Virginia, October 16, 1859; captured, October 18; tried by Commonwealth of Virginia,
October 27-31; hanged at Charlestown, Virginia, December 2, 1859.

BARTON, CLARA. Born at Oxford, Massachusetts, 1821; superintended relief work on battle-fields
during Civil War; laid out grounds of national cemetery at Andersonville, 1865; worked through
Franco-Prussian war, 1870; distributed relief in Strasburg, Belfort, Montpelier, Paris, 1871;
secured adoption of Treaty of Geneva, 1882; president American Red Cross Society, 1881-1904.

BERGH, HENRY. Born at New York City, 1823; secretary of legation at St. Petersburg, 1862-64;
organized American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, 1866; founded Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children, 1874; died at New York City, March 12, 1888.

BROOKS, PHILLIPS. Born at Boston, December 13, 1835; graduated at Harvard, 1855; graduated
from Episcopal Seminary, Alexandria, Virginia, 1859; rector of Trinity Church, Boston, 1870-93;
elected Bishop of Episcopal Diocese of Massachusetts, 1891; died at Boston, January 23, 1893.

MOODY, DWIGHT LYMAN. Born at Northfield, Massachusetts, February 5, 1837; started missionary
work at Chicago, 1856; conducted revival meetings in Great Britain, 1873-75; and devoted the
remainder of his life to this work; died at Northfield, December 22, 1899.

CHAPTER IX

MEN OF AFFAIRS

Almost from the first years of her existence America has been known chiefly as a commercial
nation, as a nation noted for her men of affairs, rather than for her artists and men of letters.
Which is to say that the life of the Republic has been practical rather than artistic, and
it is only of late years, except for a sporadic instance here and there, that any genuine artistic
impulse has made itself felt.

This is not a cause of reproach. Given the circumstances, it was inevitable that America should
develop first on her commercial side. Here was a great continent, stretching thousands of miles
to the westward, waiting for man's occupancy. Millions of acres of plain and woodland awaited
development. There were cities to found and rivers to bridge and roads to make and soil to
till and gold to dig before America could think of writing poetry or painting pictures. Think--it
is only three centuries since Jamestown was founded; only a century and a quarter since we
became a nation--a mere handbreadth of time when compared with the long centuries of English
or French or Italian history. We have already said that for art historic background is necessary;
a background of achievement and tradition. Such a background we are just achieving. Besides,
during our first century, there were such great deeds of conquest and development to be done
that they challenged our strongest men. Great fortunes were made, as a matter of course, and
Europe witnessed the unique spectacle of men, born in poverty and obscurity, rising to be captains
of the world. It is this which has never ceased to shock the European sense of the fitness
of things--that the poor boy of yesterday may be the millionaire of to-morrow and take his
place with the greatest of the nation. It is the story of a few such boys which will be told
in this chapter.

First is the man who financed the Revolution and who to a large extent made possible its successful
termination--Robert Morris. Born in Liverpool, England, in 1734, he came to this country with
his father at the age of thirteen, and a place was soon found for him in the counting-house
of Charles Willing, a wealthy merchant of Philadelphia. By his diligence and activity, as well
as unusual intelligence, he grew in favor and confidence, until, upon the death of the elder
Willing, he was taken into partnership by the latter's son, and by the opening of the Revolution,
the firm of Willing & Morris was one of the largest and most prosperous in Philadelphia.

Of English birth, and bound to England by the ties of business, Morris was nevertheless opposed
to the stamp-act and was one of those who, in 1765, signed an agreement to import nothing further
from England until the act was repealed. He was, however, opposed to independence, and, as
a member of the Continental Congress, voted on July 1, 1776, against the Declaration. Three
days later he declined to vote, but when the Declaration was adopted, he signed it, and threw
in his fortunes unreservedly with his new country. His services were more than valuable--they
were indispensable. As a member of the Committee of Ways and Means, he backed the government's
credit with his own. Without his aid, the last campaigns of the war would have been impossible.
It was he who supplied General Green with munitions of war for the great campaign of the south,
and shortly afterwards raised a million and a half on his own notes to assist Washington in
the movement which resulted in the capture of Cornwallis at Yorktown. A year later, when the
financial situation of the government had become desperate, he organized the Bank of North
America to assist in financing it. For three years, he acted as superintendent of finance,
with complete control of the monetary affairs of the country. He was a member of the Constitutional
Convention, and when the new government was organized, Washington asked him to accept the treasury
portfolio, but he declined, suggesting instead Alexander Hamilton. That was not the least of
his services to America, for Hamilton was preëminently the man for the place.

It was the striking irony of fate that the man who had controlled the finances of a nation
and by his personal exertions saved it from bankruptcy should himself die in a debtor's prison;
yet such was the case. A series of unfortunate land speculations swept away his wealth and
ruined his credit; he found himself unable to meet his obligations and was seized by his creditors
and thrown into prison, where he remained for some years, and where death found him in 1806.

So Robert Morris was not one of the founders of great fortunes. Turn we to the earliest and
perhaps most successful of these, John Jacob Astor, the very type of the astute, large-minded,
and far-sighted financier. Born at Waldorf, Germany, in 1763, the son of a poor butcher in
whose shop he worked until sixteen years of age, there was nothing in his life or circumstances
to indicate the future which lay before him. One of his brothers, however, had come to America
and settled at New York, and young John Astor resolved to join him in the land of opportunity.
At the age of twenty, he was able to do so, bringing with him some musical instruments to sell
on commission, but a chance acquaintance which he made on shipboard changed the whole course
of his life.

This acquaintance was that of a furrier, who told young Astor of the great profits to be made
by buying furs from the Indians and selling them to the large dealers. Perhaps he exaggerated
the profits of the business; at any rate, he fired the ambition of his hearer, and the latter
decided to enter the fur business without delay. Upon landing in New York, therefore, he at
once secured a position in the shop of a Quaker furrier, and after learning all the details
of the business, opened a shop of his own.

Perhaps no one ever worked harder in establishing a business than John Jacob Astor did. Early
and late he was at his shop, except when absent on long and arduous purchasing expeditions
into the wilderness. More than that, he possessed admirable business judgment, so that, after
fifteen years of work, he had succeeded in accumulating a fortune of a quarter of a million
dollars. With careful and sagacious management, the business prospered so that Astor was soon
able to send his furs to Europe in his own vessels, and bring back European goods. And about
this time, he began working on a grandiose and picturesque enterprise.

The English Hudson Bay Company, established many years before, with hundreds of trappers and
traders and scores of trading-posts, controlled the rich fur business of Canada and the northwest.
We have seen how, years after the events which we are now narrating, the agents of the company
tried to save Oregon for England and how Marcus Whitman foiled them. Astor's plan, in outline,
was to render American trade independent of the Hudson Bay Company by establishing a chain
of trading-posts from the great lakes to the Pacific, to plant a central depot at the mouth
of the Columbia river, and to acquire one of the Sandwich Islands and establish a line of vessels
between the western coast of America and the ports of Japan, China and India. Surely a man
who could conceive a plan like that was something more than a mere trader, and Astor proceeded
at once to carry it into effect.

Two expeditions were sent out, one by land and one by sea, to open up intercourse with the
Indians of the Pacific coast, and the settlement of Astoria was planted at the mouth of the
Columbia river. Whether Astor would have been able to carry out the remainder of his plan is
purely problematical, for before he had it fairly under way, the war of 1812 began, and he
was forced to abandon the enterprise. The story of this far-reaching project has been told
by Washington Irving in his "Astoria." Until his death, he continued to enlarge and increase
his business, and left a fortune estimated at twenty millions of dollars.

The Astor plan of investment is one of the safest, most sagacious in the world. Practically
all of his profits were invested by John Jacob Astor in real estate outside the compact portion
of the city of New York. As the city grew out to his holdings, he would improve them, rent
or sell them, and reinvest further out. In this way the growth of the city marked also the
growth of his fortune, and this plan of investment has been followed by his descendants to
the present day, until they have become by far the most important owners of real estate in
New York City. His son, William B. Astor, gave his life to the preservation and growth of the
vast property he inherited, and at his death had more than doubled it, dividing an estate of
$45,000,000 between his two sons.

Not that the whole thought of these two men was money-getting, for their public gifts were
numerous and important. The most noteworthy was the Astor library, founded by John Jacob Astor
at the suggestion of Washington Irving, and largely added to by his son, the total amount of
the Astor donations to it exceeding a million dollars. But they stand as two types of sagacious
and hard-headed business men, to whom money-making and the still more difficult art of money-keeping
was an instinctive accomplishment.

The second great American fortune was that founded by Cornelius Vanderbilt, as remarkable and
picturesque a character as this country ever produced. Born on Staten Island in 1794, the son
of a farmer in moderate circumstances, the boy soon developed a remarkable talent for trade.
His father owned a sail-boat, in which he conveyed his produce across the bay to the New York
markets, and the boy soon learned to manage this and was intrusted with these daily trips.
When he was sixteen years old, he bought a boat of his own, in which he ferried passengers
across the bay, and two years later he was owner of two boats and captain of a third. This
was the beginning of the great fleet of steamers, sloops and schooners which he built up for
the navigation of the shores of New York bay and the Hudson river, which won him the title
of "Commodore," which clung to him all his life. Before he was forty years old, he had accumulated
a fortune of half a million dollars, and was ready for those great financial operations which
marked his later life.

The discovery of gold in California led him to establish a passenger line by way of Lake Nicaragua
which netted him ten millions in ten years; he established a fast line of passenger steamships
between New York and Havre; and finally was attracted to railway development as a field of
enterprise destined to win large returns. In the course of a few years he had secured control
of both the Hudson River and New York Central roads, and brought both of them to the highest
state of efficiency, and after consolidating them, extended the system to Chicago by the purchase
of the Lake Shore, the Canada Southern and Michigan Central. He built a great terminal in New
York City, and made the system so profitable that, from it, and a series of fortunate speculations,
he accumulated a fortune of $100,000,000, practically all of which he bequeathed to his eldest
son, William Henry. One million was also given for the establishment of Vanderbilt University
at Nashville, Tennessee.

Cornelius Vanderbilt, for many years, had a very poor opinion of his son's financial ability,
and giving him a small farm on Staten Island, left him to shift for himself. Everyone has read
of the incident which changed this opinion. William needed some fertilizer for his farm, and
asked his father to give him a load of manure from his stables. His father told him to go ahead
and take a load, and William thereupon brought a great scow up to the pier near the stables,
proceeded to load it, and when his father protested, pointed out that he had not specified
the kind of load, but that he had meant a scow-load. This bit of sharp practice pleased his
father, and, shortly afterwards, the great success with which he managed the Staten Island
Railroad, as receiver, established him in his father's confidence. He continued and extended
his father's policy of railway investment, and added to the great fortune which had been left
him, and which still remains one of the greatest in America, though it has been split up among
the different branches of the Vanderbilt family. William himself distributed about two millions
in various benevolent and public enterprises, one of the queerest of which was the removal
of one of "Cleopatra's Needles" from Egypt to Central Park, New York City, at a cost of over
a hundred thousand dollars.

In the business world of New York City, half a century ago, no name was more prominent than
that of A. T. Stewart, whose success as a merchant was one of the most astonishing features
of the time. Born near Belfast, Ireland, in 1803, Stewart was a descendant from one of those
hardy and thrifty Scotch-Irish, whom we have had occasion to mention before. His father was
a farmer, but died while the son was still at school, and at the age of twenty the latter came
to New York, and after looking over the field, opened a small store on lower Broadway, with
a sleeping apartment for himself in the rear. Such was the beginning of the greatest dry-goods
business this country ever saw. It increased by leaps and bounds, for Stewart seems to have
had a sort of instinctive genius for the business. He was continually moving to larger and
larger quarters, and in 1862, built on Broadway a store which was at that time the largest
in the world, and which, even in this day of mammoth structures, commands attention. Its cost
was nearly three millions, a colossal sum for those days; two thousand people were employed
in it and it cost a million a year to run. But it brought a tremendous return, and its owner
soon became one of the wealthiest men in New York.

He wanted more than wealth--he hungered for political and social honors which were never fully
his. He had made a large contribution to the fund of $100,000 presented by the merchants of
New York to General Grant, and in 1869, Grant appointed him secretary of the treasury. The
senate refused to confirm the appointment, on the ground that the law excluded from that office
anyone interested in the importation of merchandise. Grant sent to the senate a message recommending
that this law be repealed, but the senate refused; and Stewart thereupon offered to place his
business in the hands of trustees and devote its entire profits to charity during his term
of office; but still the senate refused, and the nomination was withdrawn. It was a bitter
blow to Stewart, nor was his fight for social prominence much more fortunate. As his last stake,
as it were, he began the erection of a great marble palace on Fifth Avenue, designed to cost
a million and to be the finest private residence in the world, but he died before it was completed.

       *       *       *       *       *

One of the great industries of the country is that of sugar refining, and it is inseparably
connected with the name of Havemeyer, for to the Havemeyers is due its development and its
formation into a so-called trust, which practically controls the market, and which has won
great wealth for its organizers. The ancestor of the Havemeyers was a thrifty German who came
to this country in the latter part of the eighteenth century, and, after engaging in various
pursuits, opened a little sugar refinery in New York City, which soon brought him a comfortable
income. There, in 1804, William Frederick Havemeyer was born, and after a careful education,
entered the refinery, gained a thorough knowledge of the business and, in 1828 succeeded to
it, having as a partner his cousin, Frederick Christian Havemeyer. These two men developed
the business in a wonderful manner, installing new machinery, inventing new processes, which
reduced the manufacturing cost, acquiring possession of other plants and securing government
support in the shape of a protective tariff, which made a naturally profitable business doubly
so, and netted its owners many millions.

William Frederick Havemeyer found time, in the intervals of running his business, to take a
prominent part in New York politics. He was mayor of the city from 1845 to 1851, and again
in 1873, dying before the last term was finished.

As far as possible removed from Havemeyer's humdrum existence was that of Phineas Taylor Barnum,
the greatest showman the world has ever seen, the originator of the great travelling circus,
the exploiter of Tom Thumb and Jenny Lind, the owner of Jumbo, the most famous elephant that
ever lived, whose name has passed into the English language as a synonym for bigness.

Barnum was born at Bethel, Connecticut, in 1810. His father was an inn-keeper and died when
the boy was fifteen years old, leaving no property. He tried his hand at store-keeping, and
failed; ran a newspaper, and was imprisoned for libel, and finally reached New York at about
the end of his resources and looking around for something to do. That was in 1834, and by accident
he hit upon his real vocation.

A man by the name of R. W. Lindsay was exhibiting through the country an old negro woman named
Joice Heth, advertising her as being 161 years old, and as having been the nurse of George
Washington. Barnum went to see her and found her an extraordinary-looking object. He has himself
told how he was impressed by her.

Barnum was so impressed by this extraordinary object, that he bought her for a thousand dollars,
putting his last cent into the venture and borrowing what he lacked. He proceeded to advertise
her with characteristic energy, and great crowds thronged to see her, so that his receipts
sometimes ran as high as $1,500 a week. However, the old woman died within a year, and a post-mortem
examination showed that she was really only about eighty years old.

