XXX. A few days afterward, Lucius Saenius, a senator, read to the senate a letter, which, he
said, he had received from Faesulae, and in which, it was stated that Caius Manlius, with a
large force, had taken the field by the 27th of October.[150] Others at the same time, as is
not uncommon in such a crisis, spread reports of omens and prodigies; others of meetings being
held, of arms being transported, and of insurrections of the slaves at Capua and in Apulia.
In consequence of these rumors, Quintus Marcius Rex[151] was dispatched, by a decree of the
senate, to Faesulae, and Quintus Metellus Creticus[152] into Apulia and the parts adjacent;
both which officers, with the title of commanders,[153] were waiting near the city, having
been prevented from entering in triumph, by the malice of a cabal, whose custom it was to ask
a price for every thing, whether honorable or infamous. The praetors, too, Quintus Pompeius
Rufus, and Quintus Metellus Celer, were sent off, the one to Capua, the other to Picenum, and
power was given them to levy a force proportioned to the exigency and the danger. The senate
also decreed, that if any one should give information of the conspiracy which had been formed
against the state, his reward should be, if a slave, his freedom and a hundred sestertia; if
a freeman, a complete pardon and two hundred sestertia[154]. They further appointed that the
schools of gladiators[155] should be distributed in Capua and other municipal towns, according
to the capacity of each; and that, at Rome, watches should be posted throughout the city, of
which the inferior magistrates[156] should have the charge.

XXXI. By such proceedings as these the citizens were struck with alarm, and the appearance
of the city was changed. In place of that extreme gayety and dissipation,[157] to which long
tranquillity[158] had given rise, a sudden gloom spread over all classes; they became anxious
and agitated; they felt secure neither in any place, nor with any person; they were not at
war, yet enjoyed no peace; each measured the public danger by his own fear. The women, also,
to whom, from the extent of the empire, the dread of war was new, gave way to lamentation,
raised supplicating hands to heaven, mourned over their infants, made constant inquiries, trembled
at every thing, and, forgetting their pride and their pleasures, felt nothing but alarm for
themselves and their country.

Yet the unrelenting spirit of Catiline persisted in the same purposes, notwithstanding the
precautions that were adopted against him, and though he himself was accused by Lucius Paullus
under the Plautian law.[159] At last, with a view to dissemble, and under pretense of clearing
his character, as if he had been provoked by some attack, he went into the senate-house. It
was then that Marcus Tullius, the consul, whether alarmed at his presence, or fired with indignation
against him, delivered that splendid speech, so beneficial to the republic, which he afterward
wrote and published.[160]

When Cicero sat down, Catiline, being prepared to pretend ignorance of the whole matter, entreated,
with downcast looks and suppliant voice, that "the Conscript Fathers would not too hastily
believe any thing against him;" saying "that he was sprung from such a family, and had so ordered
his life from his youth, as to have every happiness in prospect; and that they were not to
suppose that he, a patrician, whose services to the Roman people, as well as those of his ancestors,
had been so numerous, should want to ruin the state, when Marcus Tullius, a mere adopted citizen
of Rome,[161] was eager to preserve it." When he was proceeding to add other invectives, they
all raised an outcry against him, and called him an enemy and a traitor.[162] Being thus exasperated,
"Since I am encompassed by enemies," he exclaimed,[163] "and driven to desperation, I will
extinguish the flame kindled around me in a general ruin."

XXXII He then hurried from the senate to his own house; and then, after much reflection with
himself, thinking that, as his plots against the consul had been unsuccessful, and as he knew
the city to be secured from fire by the watch, his best course would be to augment his army,
and make provision for the war before the legions could be raised, he set out in the dead of
night, and with a few attendants, to the camp of Manlius. But he left in charge to Lentulus
and Cethegus, and others of whose prompt determination he was assured, to strengthen the interests
of their party in every possible way, to forward the plots against the consul, and to make
arrangements for a massacre, for firing the city, and for other destructive operations of war;
promising that he himself would shortly advance on the city with a large army.

During the course of these proceedings at Rome, Caius Manlius dispatched some of his followers
as deputies to Quintus Marcius Rex, with directions to address him[164] to the following effect:

XXXIII. "We call gods and men to witness, general, that we have taken up arms neither to injure
our country, nor to occasion peril to any one, but to defend our own persons from harm; who,
wretched and in want, have been deprived most of us, of our homes, and all of us of our character
and property, by the oppression and cruelty of usurers; nor has any one of us been allowed,
according to the usage of our ancestors, to have the benefit of the law,[165] or, when our
property was lost to keep our persons free. Such has been the inhumanity of the usurers and
of the praetor.[166]

Often have your forefathers, taking compassion on the commonalty at Rome, relieved their distress
by decrees;[167] and very lately, within our own memory, silver, by reason of the pressure
of debt, and with the consent of all respectable citizens, was paid with brass.[168]

Often too, we must own, have the commonalty themselves, driven by desire of power, or by the
arrogance of their rulers, seceded[169] under arms from the patricians. But at power or wealth,
for the sake of which wars, and all kinds of strife, arise among mankind, we do not aim; we
desire only our liberty, which no honorable man relinquishes but with life. We therefore conjure
you and the senate to befriend your unhappy fellow-citizens; to restore us the protection of
the law, which the injustice of the praetor has taken from us; and not to lay on us the necessity
of considering how we may perish, so as best to avenge our blood."

XXXIV. To this address Quintus Marcius replied, that, "if they wished to make any petition
to the senate, they must lay down their arms, and proceed as suppliants to Rome;" adding, that
"such had always been the kindness[170] and humanity of the Roman senate and people, that none
had ever asked help of them in vain."

Catiline, on his march, sent letters to most men of consular dignity, and to all the most respectable
citizens, stating that "as he was beset by false accusations, and unable to resist the combination
of his enemies, he was submitting to the will of fortune, and going into exile at Marseilles;
not that he was guilty of the great wickedness laid to his charge, but that the state might
be undisturbed, and that no insurrection might arise from his defense of himself."

Quintus Catulus, however, read in the senate a letter of a very different character, which,
he said, was delivered to him in the name of Catiline, and of which the following is a copy.

[171]XXXV. "Lucius Catiline to Quintus Catulus, wishing health. Your eminent integrity, known
to me by experience,[172] gives a pleasing confidence, in the midst of great perils, to my
present recommendation. [173] I have determined, therefore, to make no formal defense[174]
with regard to my new course of conduct; yet I was resolved, though conscious of no guilt,[175]
to offer you some explanation,[176] which, on my word of honor,[177] you may receive as true.[178]
Provoked by injuries and indignities, since, being robbed of the fruit of my labor and exertion,
[179] I did not obtain the post of honor due to me,[180] I have undertaken, according to my
custom, the public cause of the distressed. Not but that I could have paid, out of my own property,
the debts contracted on my own security;[181] while the generosity of Orestilla, out of her
own fortune and her daughter's, would discharge those incurred on the security of others. But
because I saw unworthy men ennobled with honors, and myself proscribed[182] on groundless suspicion,
I have for this very reason, adopted a course,[183] amply justifiable in my present circumstances,
for preserving what honor is left to me. When I was proceeding to write more, intelligence
was brought that violence is preparing against me. I now commend and intrust Orestilla to your
protection;[184] intreating you, by your love for your own children, to defend her from injury.[185]
Farewell."

XXXVI. Catiline himself, having stayed a few days with Caius Flaminius Flamma in the neighborhood
of Arretium,[186] while he was supplying the adjacent parts, already excited to insurrection,
with arms, marched with his fasces, and other ensigns of authority, to join Manlius in his camp.

When this was known at Rome, the senate declared Catiline and Manlius enemies to the state,
and fixed a day as to the rest of their force, before which they might lay down their arms
with impunity, except such as had been convicted of capital offenses. They also decreed that
the consuls should hold a levy; that Antonius, with an army, should hasten in pursuit of Catiline;
and that Cicero should protect the city.

At this period the empire of Rome appears to me to have been in an extremely deplorable condition;[187]
for though every nation, from the rising to the setting of the sun, lay in subjection to her
arms, and though peace and prosperity, which mankind think the greatest blessings, were hers
in abundance, there yet were found, among her citizens, men who were bent with obstinate determination,
to plunge themselves and their country into ruin; for, notwithstanding the two decrees of the
senate,[188] not one individual, out of so vast a number, was induced by the offer of reward
to give information of the conspiracy; nor was there a single deserter from the camp of Catiline.
So strong a spirit of disaffection had, like a pestilence, pervaded the minds of most of the
citizens.

XXXVII. Nor was this disaffected spirit confined to those who were actually concerned in the
conspiracy; for the whole of the common people, from a desire of change, favored the projects
of Catiline. This they seemed to do in accordance with their general character; for, in every
state, they that are poor envy those of a better class, and endeavor to exalt the factious;[189]
they dislike the established condition of things, and long for something new; they are discontented
with their own circumstances, and desire a general alteration; they can support themselves
amid tumult and sedition, without anxiety, since poverty does not easily suffer loss.[190]

As for the populace of the city, they had become disaffected[191] from various causes. In the
first place,[192] such as every where took the lead in crime and profligacy, with others who
had squandered their fortunes in dissipation, and, in a word, all whom vice and villainy had
driven from their homes, had flocked to Rome as a general receptacle of impurity. In the next
place, many, who thought of the success of Sylla, when they had seen some raised from common
soldiers into senators, and others so enriched as to live in regal luxury and pomp, hoped,
each for himself, similar results from victory, if they should once take up arms. In addition
to this, the youth, who, in the country, had earned a scanty livelihood by manual labor, tempted
by public and private largesses, had preferred idleness in the city to unwelcome toil in the
field. To these, and all others of similar character, public disorders would furnish subsistence.
It is not at all surprising, therefore, that men in distress, of dissolute principles and extravagant
expectations, should have consulted the interest of the state no further than as it was subservient
to their own. Besides, those whose parents, by the victory of Sylla, had been proscribed, whose
property had been confiscated, and whose civil rights had been curtailed,[193] looked forward
to the event of a war with precisely the same feelings.

All those, too, who were of any party opposed to that of the senate, were desirous rather that
the state should be embroiled, than that they themselves should be out of power. This was an
evil, which, after many years, had returned upon the community to the extent to which it now
prevailed.[194]

XXXVIII. For after the powers of the tribunes, in the consulate of Cneius Pompey and Marcus
Crassus, had been fully restored,[195] certain young men, of an ardent age and temper, having
obtained that high office,[196] began to stir up the populace by inveighing against the senate,
and proceeded, in course of time, by means of largesses and promises, to inflame them more
and more; by which methods they became popular and powerful. On the other hand, the most of
the nobility opposed their proceedings to the utmost; under pretense, indeed, of supporting
the senate, but in reality for their own aggrandizement. For, to state the truth in few words,
whatever parties, during that period, disturbed the republic under plausible pretexts, some,
as if to defend the rights of the people, others, to make the authority of the senate as great
as possible, all, though affecting concern for the public good, contended every one for his
own interest. In such contests there was neither moderation nor limit; each party made a merciless
use of its successes.

XXXIX. After Pompey, however, was sent to the maritime and Mithridatic wars, the power of the
people was diminished, and the influence of the few increased. These few kept all public offices,
the administration of the provinces, and every thing else, in their own hands; they themselves
lived free from harm,[197] in flourishing circumstances, and without apprehension; overawing
others, at the same time, with threats of impeachment,[198] so that when in office, they might
be less inclined to inflame the people. But as soon as a prospect of change, in this dubious
state of affairs, had presented itself, the old spirit of contention awakened their passions;
and had Catiline, in his first battle, come off victorious, or left the struggle undecided,
great distress and calamity must certainly have fallen upon the state, nor would those, who
might at last have gained the ascendency, have been allowed to enjoy it long, for some superior
power would have wrested dominion and liberty from them when weary and exhausted.

There were some, however, unconnected with the conspiracy, who set out to join Catiline at
an early period of his proceedings. Among these was Aulus Fulvius, the son of a senator, whom,
being arrested on his journey, his father ordered to be put to death.[199] In Rome, at the
same time, Lentulus, in pursuance of Catiline's directions, was endeavoring to gain over, by
his own agency or that of others, all whom he thought adapted, either by principles or circumstances,
to promote an insurrection; and not citizens only, but every description of men who could be
of any service in war.

XL. He accordingly commissioned one Publius Umbrenus to apply to certain deputies of the Allobroges,[200]
and to lead them, if he could, to a participation in the war; supposing that as they were nationally
and individually involved in debt, and as the Gauls were naturally warlike, they might easily
be drawn into such an enterprise. Umbrenus, as he had traded in Gaul, was known to most of
the chief men there, and personally acquainted with them; and consequently, without loss of
time, as soon as he noticed the deputies in the Forum, he asked them, after making a few inquiries
about the state of their country, and affecting to commiserate its fallen condition, "what
termination they expected to such calamities?" When he found that they complained of the rapacity
of the magistrates, inveighed against the senate for not affording them relief, and looked
to death as the only remedy for their sufferings, "Yet I," said he, "if you will but act as
men, will show you a method by which you may escape these pressing difficulties." When he had
said this, the Allobroges, animated with the highest hopes, besought Umbrenus to take compassion
on them; saying that there was nothing so disagreeable or difficult, which they would not most
gladly perform, if it would but free their country from debt. He then conducted them to the
house of Decimus Brutus, which was close to the Forum, and, on account of Sempronia, not unsuitable
to his purpose, as Brutus was then absent from Rome.[201] In order, too, to give greater weight
to his representations, he sent for Gabinius, and, in his presence, explained the objects of
the conspiracy, and mentioned the names of the confederates, as well as those of many other
persons, of every sort, who were guiltless of it, for the purpose of inspiring the embassadors
with greater confidence. At length, when they had promised their assistance, he let them depart.

XLI. Yet the Allobroges were long in suspense what course they should adopt. On the one hand,
there was debt, an inclination for war, and great advantages to be expected from victory;[202]
on the other, superior resources, safe plans, and certain rewards[203] instead of uncertain
expectations. As they were balancing these considerations, the good fortune of the state at
length prevailed. They accordingly disclosed the whole affair, just as they had learned it,
to Quintus Fabius Sanga,[204] to whose patronage their state was very greatly indebted. Cicero,
being apprized of the matter by Sanga, directed the deputies to pretend a strong desire for
the success of the plot, to seek interviews with the rest of the conspirators, to make them
fair promises, and to endeavor to lay them open to conviction as much as possible.

XLII. Much about the same time there were commotions[205] in Hither and Further Gaul, in the
Picenian and Bruttian territories, and in Apulia. For those, whom Catiline had previously sent
to those parts, had begun, without consideration, and seemingly with madness, to attempt every
thing at once; and, by nocturnal meetings, by removing armor and weapons from place to place,
and by hurrying and confusing every thing, had created more alarm than danger. Of these, Quintus
Metellus Celer, the praetor, having brought several to trial,[206] under the decree of the
senate, had thrown them into prison, as had also Caius Muraena in Further Gaul,[207] who governed
that province in quality of legate.

XLIII. But at Rome, in the mean time, Lentulus, with the other leaders of the conspiracy, having
secured what they thought a large force, had arranged, that as soon as Catiline should reach
the neighborhood of Faesulae, Lucius Bestia, a tribune of the people, having called an assembly,
should complain of the proceedings of Cicero, and lay the odium of this most oppressive war
on the excellent consul;[208] and that the rest of the conspirators, taking this as a signal,
should, on the following night, proceed to execute their respective parts.

These parts are said to have been thus distributed. Statilius and Gabinius, with a large force,
were to set on fire twelve places of the city, convenient for their purpose,[209] at the same
time; in order that, during the consequent tumult,[210] an easier access might be obtained
to the consul, and to the others whose destruction was intended; Cethegus was to beset the
gate of Cicero, and attack him personally with violence; others were to single out other victims;
while the sons of certain families, mostly of the nobility, were to kill their fathers; and,
when all were in consternation at the massacre and conflagration, they were to sally forth
to join Catiline.

While they were thus forming and settling their plans, Cethegus was incessantly complaining
of the want of spirit in his associates; observing, that they wasted excellent opportunities
through hesitation and delay;[211] that, in such an enterprise, there was need, not of deliberation,
but of action; and that he himself, if a few would support him, would storm the senate-house
while the others remained inactive. Being naturally bold, sanguine, and prompt to act, he thought
that success depended on rapidity of execution.

XLIV. The Allobroges, according to the directions of Cicero, procured interviews, by means
of Gabinius, with the other conspirators; and from Lentulus, Cethegus, Statilius, and Cassius,
they demanded an oath, which they might carry under seal to their countrymen, who otherwise
would hardly join in so important an affair. To this the others consented without suspicion;
but Cassius promised them soon to visit their country,[212] and, indeed, left the city a little
before the deputies.

In order that the Allobroges, before they reached home, might confirm their agreement with
Catiline, by giving and receiving pledges of faith, Lentulus sent with them one Titus Volturcius,
a native of Crotona, he himself giving Volturcius a letter for Catiline, of which the following
is a copy:

"Who I am, you will learn from the person whom I have sent to you. Reflect seriously in how
desperate a situation you are placed, and remember that you are a man.[213] Consider what your
views demand, and seek aid from all, even the lowest." In addition, he gave him this verbal
message: "Since he was declared an enemy by the senate, for what reason should he reject the
assistance of slaves? That, in the city, every thing which he had directed was arranged; and
that he should not delay to make nearer approaches to it."

XLV. Matters having proceeded thus far, and a night being appointed for the departure of the
deputies, Cicero, being by them made acquainted with every thing, directed the praetors,[214]
Lucius Valerius Flaccus, and Caius Pomtinus, to arrest the retinue of the Allobroges, by laying
in wait for them on the Milvian Bridge;[215] he gave them a full explanation of the object
with which they were sent,[216] and left them to manage the rest as occasion might require.
Being military men, they placed a force, as had been directed, without disturbance, and secretly
invested the bridge; when the deputies, with Volturcius, came to the place, and a shout was
raised from each side of the bridge,[217] the Gauls, at once comprehending the matter, surrendered
themselves immediately to the praetors. Volturcius, at first, encouraging his companions, defended
himself against numbers with his sword; but afterward, being unsupported by the Allobroges,
he began earnestly to beg Pomtinus, to whom he was known, to save his life, and at last, terrified
and despairing of safety, he surrendered himself to the praetors as unconditionally as to foreign
enemies.

XLVI. The affair being thus concluded, a full account of it was immediately transmitted to
the consul by messengers. Great anxiety, and great joy, affected him at the same moment. He
rejoiced that, by the discovery of the conspiracy, the state was freed from danger; but he
was doubtful how he ought to act, when citizens of such eminence were detected in treason so
atrocious. He saw that their punishment would be a weight upon himself, and their escape the
destruction of the Commonwealth. Having, however, formed his resolution, he ordered Lentulus,
Cethegus, Statilius, Gabinius, and one Quintus Coeparius of Terracina, who was preparing to
go to Apulia to raise the slaves, to be summoned before him. The others came without delay;
but Coeparius, having left his house a little before, and heard of the discovery of the conspiracy,
had fled from the city. The consul himself conducted Lentulus, as he was praetor, holding him
by the hand, and ordered the others to be brought into the Temple of Concord, under a guard.
Here he assembled the senate, and in a very full attendance of that body, introduced Volturcius
with the deputies. Hither also he ordered Valerius Flaccus, the praetor, to bring the box with
the letters[218] which he had taken from the deputies.

XLVII. Volturcius, being questioned concerning his journey, concerning his letter,[219] and
lastly, what object he had had in view,[220] and from what motives he had acted, at first began
to prevaricate,[221] and to pretend ignorance of the conspiracy; but at length, when he was
told to speak on the security of the public faith,[222] he disclosed every circumstance as
it had really occurred, stating that he had been admitted as an associate, a few days before,
by Gabinius and Coeparius; that he knew no more than the deputies, only that he used to hear
from Gabinius, that Publius Autronius, Servius Sylla, Lucius Vargunteius, and many others,
were engaged in the conspiracy. The Gauls made a similar confession, and charged Lentulus,
who began to affect ignorance, not only with the letter to Catiline, but with remarks which
he was in the habit of making, "that the sovereignty of Rome, by the Sibylline books, was predestined
to three Cornelii; that Cinna and Sylla had ruled already;[223] and that he himself was the
third, whose fate it would be to govern the city; and that this, too, was the twentieth year
since the Capitol was burned; a year which the augurs, from certain omens, had often said would
be stained with the blood of civil war."

The letter then being read, the senate, when all had previously acknowledged their seals,[224]
decreed that Lentulus, being deprived of his office, should, as well as the rest, be placed
in private custody.[225] Lentulus, accordingly, was given in charge to Publius Lentulus Spinther,
who was then aedile; Cethegus, to Quintus Cornificius; Statilius, to Caius Caesar; Gabinius,
to Marcus Crassus; and Coeparius, who had just before been arrested in his flight, to Cneius
Terentius, a senator.

XLVIII. The common people, meanwhile, who had at first, from a desire of change in the government,
been too much inclined to war, having, on the discovery of the plot, altered their sentiments,
began to execrate the projects of Catiline, to extol Cicero to the skies; and, as if rescued
from slavery, to give proofs of joy and exultation. Other effects of war they expected as a
gain rather than a loss; but the burning of the city they thought inhuman, outrageous, and
fatal, especially to themselves, whose whole property consisted in their daily necessaries
and the clothes which they wore.

On the following day, a certain Lucius Tarquinius was brought before the senate, who was said
to have been arrested as he was setting out to join Catiline. This person, having offered to
give information of the conspiracy, if the public faith were pledged to him,[226] and being
directed by the consul to state what he knew, gave the senate nearly the same account as Volturcius
had given, concerning the intended conflagration, the massacre of respectable citizens, and
the approach of the enemy, adding that "he was sent by Marcus Crassus to assure Catiline that
the apprehension of Lentulus, Cethegus, and others of the conspirators, ought not to alarm
him, but that he should hasten, with so much the more expedition to the city, in order to revive
the courage of the rest, and to facilitate the escape of those in custody".[227] When Tarquinius
named Crassus, a man of noble birth, of very great wealth, and of vast influence, some, thinking
the statement incredible, others, though they supposed it true, yet, judging that at such a
crisis a man of such power[228] was rather to be soothed than irritated (most of them, too,
from personal reasons, being; under obligation to Crassus), exclaimed that he was "a false
witness," and demanded that the matter should be put to the vote. Cicero, accordingly, taking
their opinions, a full senate decreed "that the testimony of Tarquinius appeared false; that
he himself should be kept in prison; and that no further liberty of speaking[229] should be
granted him, unless he should name the person at whose instigation he had fabricated so shameful
a calumny."

There were some, at that time, who thought that this affair was contrived by Publius Autronius,
in order that the interest of Crassus, if he were accused, might, from participation in the
danger, more readily screen the rest. Others said that Tarquinius was suborned by Cicero, that
Crassus might not disturb the state, by taking upon him, as was his custom,[230] the defense
of the criminals. That this attack on his character was made by Cicero, I afterward heard Crassus
himself assert.

XLIX. Yet, at the same time, neither by interest, nor by solicitation, nor by bribes, could
Quintus Catulus, and Caius Piso, prevail upon Cicero to have Caius Caesar falsely accused,
either by means of the Allobroges, or any other evidence. Both of these men were at bitter
enmity with Caesar; Piso, as having been attacked by him, when he was on[231] his trial for
extortion, on a charge of having illegally put to death a Transpadane Gaul; Catulus, as having
hated him ever since he stood for the pontificate, because, at an advanced age, and after filling
the highest offices, he had been defeated by Caesar, who was then comparatively a youth.[232]
The opportunity, too, seemed favorable for such an accusation; for Caesar, by extraordinary
generosity in private, and by magnificent exhibitions in public,[233] had fallen greatly into
debt. But when they failed to persuade the consul to such injustice, they themselves, by going
from one person to another, and spreading fictions of their own, which they pretended to have
heard from Volturcius or the Allobroges, excited such violent odium against him, that certain
Roman knights, who were stationed as an armed guard round the Temple of Concord, being prompted,
either by the greatness of the danger, or by the impulse of a high spirit, to testify more
openly their zeal for the republic, threatened Caesar with their swords as he went out of the
senate-house.

L. While these occurrences were passing in the senate, and while rewards were being voted,
an approbation of their evidence, to the Allobrogian deputies and to Titus Volturcius, the
freedmen, and some of the other dependents of Lentulus, were urging the artisans and slaves,
in various directions throughout the city,[234] to attempt his rescue; some, too, applied to
the ringleaders of the mob, who were always ready to disturb the state for pay. Cethegus, at
the same time, was soliciting, through his agents, his slaves[235] and freedmen, men trained
to deeds of audacity, to collect themselves into an armed body, and force a way into his place
of confinement.

The consul, when he heard that these things were in agitation, having distributed armed bodies
of men, as the circumstances and occasion demanded, called a meeting of the senate, and desired
to know "what they wished to be done concerning those who had been committed to custody." A
full senate, however, had but a short time before[236] declared them traitors to their country.
Caesar, when it came to his turn, being asked his opinion by the consul, spoke to the following
effect:

LI. "It becomes all men,[239] Conscript Fathers, who deliberate on dubious matters, to be influenced
neither by hatred, affection, anger, nor pity. The mind, when such feelings obstruct its view,
can not easily see what is right; nor has any human being consulted, at the same moment, his
passion and his interest. When the mind is freely exerted, its reasoning is sound; but passion,
if it gain possession of it, becomes its tyrant, and reason is powerless.

I could easily mention, Conscript Fathers, numerous examples of kings and nations, who, swayed
by resentment or compassion, have adopted injudicious courses of conduct; but I had rather
speak of these instances in which our ancestors, in opposition, to the impulse of passion,
acted with wisdom and sound policy.

In the Macedonian war, which we carried on against king Perses, the great and powerful state
of Rhodes, which had risen by the aid of the Roman people, was faithless and hostile to us;
yet, when the war was ended, and the conduct of the Rhodians was taken into consideration,
our forefathers left them unmolested lest any should say that war was made upon them for the
sake of seizing their wealth, rather than of punishing their faithlessness. Throughout the
Punic war, too, though the Carthaginians, both during peace and in suspension of arms, were
guilty of many acts of injustice, yet our ancestors never took occasion to retaliate, but considered
rather what was worthy of themselves, than what might be justly inflicted on their enemies.

Similar caution, Conscript Fathers, is to be observed by yourselves, that the guilt of Lentulus,
and the other conspirators, may not have greater weight with you than your own dignity, and
that you may not regard your indignation more than your character. If, indeed, a punishment
adequate to their crimes be discovered, I consent to extraordinary measures;[240] but if the
enormity of their crime exceeds whatever can be devised,[241] I think that we should inflict
only such penalties as the laws have provided.

Most of those, who have given their opinions before me, have deplored, in studied and impressive
language,[242] the sad fate that threatens the republic; they have recounted the barbarities
of war, and the afflictions that would fall on the vanquished; they have told us that maidens
would be dishonored, and youths abused; that children would be torn from the embraces of their
parents; that matrons would be subjected to the pleasure of the conquerors; that temples and
dwelling-houses would be plundered; that massacres and fires would follow; and that every place
would be filled with arms, corpses, blood, and lamentation. But to what end, in the name of
the eternal gods! was such eloquence directed? Was it intended to render you indignant at the
conspiracy? A speech, no doubt, will inflame him whom so frightful and monstrous a reality
has not provoked! Far from it: for to no man does evil, directed against himself, appear a
light matter; many, on the contrary, have felt it more seriously than was right.

But to different persons, Conscript Fathers, different degrees of license are allowed. If those
who pass a life sunk in obscurity, commit any error, through excessive anger, few become aware
of it, for their fame is as limited as their fortune; but of those who live invested with extensive
power, and in an exalted station, the whole world knows the proceedings. Thus in the highest
position there is the least liberty of action; and it becomes us to indulge neither partiality
nor aversion, but least of all animosity; for what in others is called resentment, is in the
powerful termed violence and cruelty.

I am indeed of opinion, Conscript Fathers, that the utmost degree of torture is inadequate
to punish their crime; but the generality of mankind dwell on that which happens last, and,
in the case of malefactors, forget their guilt, and talk only of their punishment, should that
punishment have been inordinately severe. I feel assured, too, that Decimus Silanus, a man
of spirit and resolution, made the suggestions which he offered, from zeal for the state, and
that he had no view, in so important a matter, to favor or to enmity; such I know to be his
character, and such his discretion.[243] Yet his proposal appears to me, I will not say cruel
(for what can be cruel that is directed against such characters?), but foreign to our policy.
For assuredly, Silanus, either your fears, or their treason, must have induced you, a consul
elect, to propose this new kind of punishment. Of fear it is unnecessary to speak, when by
the prompt activity of that distinguished man our consul, such numerous forces are under arms;
and as to the punishment, we may say, what is indeed the truth, that in trouble and distress,
death is a relief from suffering, and not a torment;[244] that it puts an end to all human
woes; and that, beyond it, there is no place either for sorrow or joy.

But why, in the name of the immortal gods, did you not add to your proposal, Silanus, that,
before they were put to death, they should be punished with the scourge? Was it because the
Porcian law[245] forbids it? But other laws[246] forbid condemned citizens to be deprived of
life, and allow them to go into exile. Or was it because scourging is a severer penalty than
death? Yet what can be too severe, or too harsh, toward men convicted of such an offense? But
if scourging be a milder punishment than death, how is it consistent to observe the law as
to the smaller point, when you disregard it as to the greater?

But who it may be asked, will blame any severity that shall be decreed against these parricides[247]
of their country? I answer that time, the course of events,[248] and fortune, whose caprice
governs nations, may blame it. Whatever shall fall on the traitors, will fall on them justly;
but it is for you, Conscript Fathers, to consider well what you resolve to inflict on others.
All precedents productive of evil effects,[249] have had their origin from what was good; but
when a government passes into the hands of the ignorant or unprincipled, any new example of
severity,[250] inflicted on deserving and suitable objects, is extended to those that are improper
and undeserving of it. The Lacedaemonians, when they had conquered the Athenians,[251] appointed
thirty men to govern their state. These thirty began their administration by putting to death,
even without a trial, all who were notoriously wicked, or publicly detestable; acts at which
the people rejoiced, and extolled their justice. But afterward, when their lawless power gradually
increased, they proceeded, at their pleasure, to kill the good and the bad indiscriminately,
and to strike terror into all; and thus the state, overpowered and enslaved, paid a heavy penalty
for its imprudent exultation.

Within our own memory, too, when the victorious Sylla ordered Damasippus,[252] and others of
similar character, who had risen by distressing their country, to be put to death, who did
not commend the proceeding? All exclaimed that wicked and factious men, who had troubled the
state with their seditious practices, had justly forfeited their lives. Yet this proceeding
was the commencement of great bloodshed. For whenever anyone coveted the mansion or villa,
or even the plate or apparel of another, he exerted his influence to have him numbered among
the proscribed. Thus they, to whom the death of Damasippus had been a subject of joy, were
soon after dragged to death themselves; nor was there any cessation of slaughter, until Sylla
had glutted all his partisans with riches.

Such excesses, indeed, I do not fear from Marcus Tullius, or in these times. But in a large
state there arise many men of various dispositions. At some other period, and under another
consul, who, like the present, may have an army at his command, some false accusation may be
credited as true; and when, with our example for a precedent, the consul shall have drawn the
sword on the authority of the senate, who shall stay its progress, or moderate its fury?

Our ancestors, Conscript Fathers, were never deficient in conduct or courage; nor did pride
prevent them from imitating the customs of other nations, if they appeared deserving of regard.
Their armor, and weapons of war, they borrowed from the Samnites; their ensigns of authority,[253]
for the most part, from the Etrurians; and, in short, whatever appeared eligible to them, whether
among allies or among enemies, they adopted at home with the greatest readiness, being more
inclined to emulate merit than to be jealous of it. But at the same time, adopting a practice
from Greece, they punished their citizens with the scourge, and inflicted capital punishment
on such as were condemned. When the republic, however, became powerful, and faction grew strong
from the vast number of citizens, men began to involve the innocent in condemnation, and other
like abuses were practiced; and it was then that the Porcian and other laws were provided,
by which condemned citizens were allowed to go into exile. This lenity of our ancestors, Conscript
Fathers, I regard as a very strong reason why we should not adopt any new measures of severity.
For assuredly there was greater merit and wisdom in those, who raised so mighty an empire from
humble means, than in us, who can scarcely preserve what they so honorably acquired. Am I of
opinion, then, you will ask, that the conspirators should be set free, and that the army of
Catiline should thus be increased? Far from it; my recommendation is, that their property be
confiscated, and that they themselves be kept in custody in such of the municipal towns as
are best able to bear the expense;[254] that no one hereafter bring their case before the senate,
or speak on it to the people; and that the senate now give their opinion, that he who shall
act contrary to this, will act against the republic and the general safety."

LII. When Caesar had ended his speech, the rest briefly expressed their assent,[255] some to
one speaker, and some to another, in support of their different proposals; but Marcius Porcius
Cato, being asked his opinion, made a speech to the following purport:

"My feelings, Conscript Fathers, are extremely different,[256] when I contemplate our circumstances
and dangers, and when I revolve in my mind the sentiments of some who have spoken before me.
Those speakers, as it seems to me, have considered only how to punish the traitors who have
raised war against their country, their parents, their altars, and their homes;[257] but the
state of affairs warns us rather to secure ourselves against them, than to take counsel as
to what sentence we should pass upon them. Other crimes you may punish after they have been
committed; but as to this, unless you prevent its commission, you will, when it has once taken
effect, in vain appeal to justice.[258] When the city is taken, no power is left to the vanquished.
But, in the name of the immortal gods, I call upon you, who have always valued your mansions
and villas, your statues and pictures, at a higher price than the welfare of your country;
if you wish to preserve those possessions, of whatever kind they are, to which you are attached;
if you wish to secure quiet for the enjoyment of your pleasures, arouse yourselves, and act
in defense of your country. We are not now debating on the revenues, or on injuries done to
our allies, but our liberty and our life is at stake.

Often, Conscript Fathers, have I spoken at great length in this assembly; often have I complained
of the luxury and avarice of our citizens, and, by that very means, have incurred the displeasure
of many. I, who never excused to myself, or to my own conscience, the commission of any fault,
could not easily pardon the misconduct,[259] or indulge the licentiousness, of others. But
though you little regarded my remonstrances, yet the republic remained secure; its own strength[260]
was proof against your remissness. The question, however, at present under discussion, is not
whether we live in a good or a bad state of morals; nor how great, or how splendid, the empire
of the Roman people is; but whether these things around us, of whatever value they are, are
to continue our own, or to fall, with ourselves, into the hands of the enemy.

In such a case, does any one talk to me of gentleness and compassion? For some time past, it
is true, we have lost the real name of things; [261] for to lavish the property of others is
called generosity, and audacity in wickedness is called heroism; and hence the state is reduced
to the brink of ruin. But let those, who thus misname things, be liberal, since such is the
practice, out of the property of our allies; let them be merciful to the robbers of the treasury;
but let them not lavish our blood, and, while they spare a few criminals, bring destruction
on all the guiltless.

Caius Caesar, a short time ago, spoke in fair and elegant language, [262] before this assembly,
on the subject of life and death; considering as false, I suppose, what is told of the dead;
that the bad, going a different way from the good, inhabit places gloomy, desolate, dreary,
and full of horror. He accordingly proposed that the property of the conspirators should be
confiscated, and themselves kept in custody in the municipal towns; fearing, it seems, that,
if they remain at Rome, they may be rescued either by their accomplices in the conspiracy,
or by a hired mob; as if, forsooth, the mischievous and profligate were to be found only in
the city, and not through the whole of Italy, or as if desperate attempts would not be more
likely to succeed where there is less power to resist them. His proposal, therefore, if he
fears any danger from them, is absurd; but if, amid such universal terror, he alone is free
from alarm, it the more concerns me to fear for you and myself.

Be assured, then, that when you decide on the fate of Lentulus and the other prisoners, you
at the same time determine that of the army of Catiline, and of all the conspirators. The more
spirit you display in your decision, the more will their confidence be diminished; but if they
shall perceive you in the smallest degree irresolute, they will advance upon you with fury.

Do not suppose that our ancestors, from so small a commencement, raised the republic to greatness
merely by force of arms. If such had been the case, we should enjoy it in a most excellent
condition;[263] for of allies and citizens,[264] as well as arms and horses, we have a much
greater abundance than they had. But there were other things which made them great, but which
among us have no existence; such as industry at home, equitable government abroad, and minds
impartial in council, uninfluenced by any immoral or improper feeling. Instead of such virtues,
we have luxury and avarice; public distress, and private superfluity; we extol wealth, and
yield to indolence; no distinction is made between good men and bad; and ambition usurps the
honors due to virtue. Nor is this wonderful; since you study each his individual interest,
and since at home you are slaves to pleasure, and here to money or favor; and hence it happens
that an attack is made on the defenseless state.

But on these subjects I shall say no more. Certain citizens, of the highest rank, have conspired
to ruin their country; they are engaging the Gauls, the bitterest foes of the Roman name, to
join in a war against us; the leader of the enemy is ready to make a descent upon us; and do
you hesitate; even in such circumstances, how to treat armed incendiaries arrested within your
walls? I advise you to have mercy upon them;[265] they are young men who have been led astray
by ambition; send them away, even with arms in their hands. But such mercy, and such clemency,
if they turn those arms against you, will end in misery to yourselves. The case is, assuredly,
dangerous, but you do not fear it; yes, you fear it greatly, but you hesitate how to act, through
weakness and want of spirit, waiting one for another, and trusting to the immortal gods, who
have so often preserved your country in the greatest dangers. But the protection of the gods
is not obtained by vows and effeminate supplications; it is by vigilance, activity, and prudent
measures, that general welfare is secured. When you are once resigned to sloth and indolence,
it is in vain that you implore the gods; for they are then indignant and threaten vengeance.

In the days of our forefathers, Titus Manlius Torquatus, during a war with the Gauls, ordered
his own son to be put to death, because he had fought with an enemy contrary to orders. That
noble youth suffered for excess of bravery; and do you hesitate what sentence to pass on the
most inhuman of traitors? Perhaps their former life is at variance with their present crime.
Spare, then, the dignity of Lentulus, if he has ever spared his own honor or character, or
had any regard for gods or for men. Pardon the youth of Cethegus, unless this be the second
time that he has made war upon his country.[266] As to Gabinius, Slatilius, Coeparius, why
should I make any remark upon them? Had they ever possessed the smallest share of discretion,
they would never have engaged in such a plot against their country.

In conclusion, Conscript Fathers, if there were time to amend an error, I might easily suffer
you, since you disregard words, to be corrected by experience of consequences. But we are beset
by dangers on all sides; Catiline, with his army, is ready to devour us;[267] while there are
other enemies within the walls, and in the heart of the city; nor can any measures be taken,
or any plans arranged, without their knowledge. The more necessary is it, therefore, to act
with promptitude. What I advise, then, is this: that since the state, by a treasonable combination
of abandoned citizens, has been brought into the greatest peril; and since the conspirators
have been convicted on the evidence of Titus Volturcius, and the deputies of the Allobroges,
and on their own confession, of having concerted massacres, conflagrations, and other horrible
and cruel outrages, against their fellow-citizens and their country, punishment be inflicted,
according to the usage of our ancestors, on the prisoners who have confessed their guilt, as
on men convicted of capital crimes."

LIII. When Cato had resumed his seat, all the senators of consular dignity, and a great part
of the rest,[268] applauded his opinion, and extolled his firmness of mind to the skies. With
mutual reproaches, they accused one another of timidity, while Cato was regarded as the greatest
and noblest of men; and a decree of the senate was made as he had advised.

