"I do know why; and it is no whim," said Veronica, earnestly. "I will tell you all about it.
That house has been a terror to me ever since I can remember anything. We were both so young
that you probably do not recollect it at all. We both went with mother to the doctor's, but
you didn't go into the house, I remember now. Mother told the doctor that my father was killed
at the Rehbock. I have never forgotten it since. I am constantly seeing him lying dead before
my eyes; lying there struck down dead. I often dream about it, and in my dreams I am there--and--and
sometimes when I look at his dead form in my dreams, it is not my father any more, but it is
you--you, Dietrich, whom they have struck down dead at the Rehbock."

Dietrich was going to laugh at these words, but he glanced into Veronica's face and was silent.
She was more in earnest than he had thought. He tried to quiet and reassure her, by saying
that it was only a dream, and nothing to be afraid of. The dream came naturally enough, because
she was always dwelling upon the tragedy of her father's death, and in dreams every one knows
that faces are always changing. His explanation, however, did not make much impression upon
Veronica. She said no more about it; but not all Dietrich's efforts were sufficient to chase
the shadows from her face that evening, although he exerted himself to be even more amusing
than usual. Gertrude observed her silence, as they sat about the table, and looked anxiously
at her. When they had separated for the night, Dietrich went into his mother's room to have
a talk with her. He told her what Veronica had said, and begged her to reason with the young
girl and urge her to lay aside these groundless fears which had taken possession of her. He
represented to his mother, that of course he sometimes had things to talk over with his companions,
and that there surely was no harm in their going to the Rehbock together for their conversations,
and he begged her to make Veronica see the whole affair in a reasonable light. Gertrude was
shocked to find that the child had heard and understood what she had said to the doctor, and
distressed that she had taken it so much to heart. She promised to speak to Veronica, but she
also cautioned her son against forming an intimacy with Jost and Blasi. Dietrich cheerfully
gave his word; declaring that he was not particularly fond of their company. The mother, however,
on further consideration, decided to say nothing on the subject to Veronica, for she thought
the whole thing would be the sooner forgotten if not spoken of, and she believed it unwise
to stir up the terrors of the past.

The next afternoon, Dietrich left home much earlier than usual, determined not to be belated
again, and hoping to escape altogether his too insistent companions. But scarcely had he reached
the garden gate when he came upon Blasi, who was lying in wait for him. Dietrich tried to pass
him quickly, and to show him that his company was not desired, but in vain Blasi had not been
waiting round half an hour to be turned off like that. He explained that he was in worse trouble
than ever to-day, and wished to borrow more money than ever before; promising, of course, to
pay it back very soon; "that is, as soon as possible," he added.

"Oh yes, well, when will it be possible, I wonder. How much have you paid me back, as yet,
since you began to borrow of me?" said Dietrich angrily. "Let me go, Blasi, I've no time to spare."

But Blasi went along by his side, and before he had done talking, Jost joined them and held
Dietrich fast by the other arm.

"Come, come," he cried, "I have something to tell you that will make you open your eyes, I
guess. I came in a hurry on purpose not to miss you. I've just come from the Rehbock, and I
told them to keep the little back room for us, so that we can talk quietly, without danger
of being interrupted. Come along, I say."

"I will not," said Dietrich, freeing his arm from the other's detaining grasp. "I haven't time,
and I don't believe you have anything special to tell me, either. I must go." And Dietrich
strode away; but Jost followed him.

"Don't be such a fool," he called out angrily, "can't you listen when I tell you that I know
something decidedly to your advantage. Something that you'll be glad to know. You are running
away because of her, and it is something that will be good for her as well as for you. So do
stand still, and don't go scampering off as if the gamekeepers were after you!" But Dietrich
did not stop.

"What do you know about her, or her good?" he asked furiously. "Mind your own business and
let us alone."

As Jost had his own interest in winning the young fellow over, he controlled himself, and said
in most soothing tones,

"Dietrich, I am your friend. Some day you will be very grateful to me. As you are in such a
hurry, I will not stop you now; only promise me to come over bye-and-bye for a few minutes
to the Rehbock; there's a good fellow, and you will not be sorry. Will you come?"

"Well, I've no particular objection to that," said Dietrich, and ran off as fast as he could.

Blasi, who had kept pace with the other two, seeing that there was no chance for him now, turned
back with Jost, and the two went into the Rehbock together.

Dietrich met Veronica quite the other side of the wood. He did his best to rouse her from her
silent mood, and to restore her to better spirits; but he found it impossible to efface the
impression she had received the evening before. The painful memory had been too deeply stamped
upon her mind, to be easily wiped out.

When the little family had bade each other good-night, after their usual affectionate conversation,
Dietrich hesitated about keeping his half-made promise. He did not want to go; yet Jost's words,
that the affair touched her as nearly as it did him, had made their intended impression, and
though it went sadly against his grain to know that Jost dared even to think about Veronica
and her interests at all, still he could not help wondering what it was all about. Suddenly
his resolution was taken; he turned about, went down stairs and softly left the house.

Jost was standing in the doorway of the Rehbock, looking out into the night to see if Dietrich
was coming. They went at once into the little back room. Blasi was there, sitting behind a
big empty bowl; indeed he never sat long behind a full one, for as the bowl was there to be
emptied he thought the quicker it was done the better.

"I'm glad you have come," he cried out, "for we've run quite dry here."

Dietrich perceived that he was expected to counteract the dryness; so he ordered some beer,
and when this was supplied Jost began in a cautious tone,

"I have something to say to you, Dietrich, that I don't care for those outside to hear. Blasi
can stay, because he is our comrade."

"And because he can be made useful," said Dietrich readily, for he knew of old that Jost was
in the habit of rushing Blasi forward, where he did not dare to go himself.

"I don't know about that," said Jost, "but now listen to me. Do you know how a fellow who hasn't
so much as a penny in his purse, can in one night get enough to build a big stone house, like
the one the landlord of the lion has in Fohrensee, and make himself a gentleman all at once?
I know how; I know somebody who has explained it all to me, and I tell you, Dietrich, you have
only to say the word, and you can do the same, and give up the whole saddler's business. You
can afford to risk something; you're not stupid; and with you it will all go right in a twinkling."

"Do you mean by card-playing?" asked Dietrich rather contemptuously, for he had made up his
mind about that long ago.

