I shall describe under this head the modus operandi of administering a routine galvanic or
faradic bath. As it will become necessary to describe special modes of administration when
speaking of the electro-balneological treatment of special diseases, the describing them now
would only lead to tautologies that I am desirous of avoiding.

Taking our cue from the indications to be met in each case, it becomes necessary, according
to circumstances, to use either the galvanic current, the faradic, or both successively. As
modifications of the application of the currents we have to consider 1) their intensity; 2)
their direction, and 3) the duration of the application.

The intensity of the galvanic current corresponds directly to the number of cells from which
it is derived. It were vain however to attempt to express this in figures, because the electro-motive
force of different batteries varies to so great an extent, that a number of cells of some batteries
of low intensity yield a current so feeble as to be barely appreciable in the bath, while the
same number of cells of a battery of high intensity, furnish a current that few persons can
bear without pain. In thus comparing the Hill cell with the Stöhrer cell, I have found the
ratio to be about as 1 to 2½, i.e., as intense a current can be derived from twenty-four Stöhrer
as from sixty Hill cells—and this is rather below than above the mark. Were all batteries alike
in this respect, however, still no particular number of cells could be given as furnishing
a current of suitable average intensity for the galvanic bath, because of the excessively great
variations in the degree of electro-sensibility of different persons. This is so marked that
I have seen persons in the bath tub who could bear no more than six Hill cells, diffused as
was the current from these through the water and over the entire body; while on the other hand
I have met with male patients on whom a current from thirty-two Stöhrer cells made not the
slightest impression, and where I was compelled to supplement the current by that from a ten-cell
quantity battery (zinc carbon elements 6 in. long by 4½ wide) in order to make them realize
the presence of a current. These gentlemen had no cutaneous anæsthesia.

In view of the facts just stated, I have found it impracticable, when giving directions for
the administration of a galvanic bath, to indicate any certain number of cells to be used.
I am in the habit of ordering the administration of a “mild,” a “medium” or a “strong” current,
as may be required in the respective cases; and in every instance it is the electro-sensibility
of the patient that determines the number of cells requisite to obtain the desired result as
represented by one of these terms. The same applies also to the faradic current.

To determine the direction of the current is sufficiently simple. Where a descending current
is desired, the binding post which represents the electrode at the head of the tub must be
connected to the positive pole of the battery, the other binding post to the negative pole;
where an ascending current is desired, the reverse of this is done.

The duration of the bath varies with different cases. The average is about twenty minutes,
though the time may range from ten minutes to an hour and a half.

Where it is desired to give the patient a galvanic shock, it is only necessary rapidly to reverse
the current by means of the commutator. The simultaneous contraction of almost the ENTIRE muscular
system that accompanies the reversal of a current of sufficient intensity in the bath, affords
a striking illustration of the general effects of the galvanic bath. In cases where paralyzed
muscles have lost their faradic irritability, galvanic interruptions are almost indispensable
to successful treatment.

I have before (page 14) described a “surface board,” which I have devised for the purpose of
localizing the current from one of the poles in any portion of the body where required. This
proceeding should by no means be looked upon as a “local” method of electrization; on the contrary,
it is just as much “general” as the ordinary electric bath. Whereas in local applications the
current runs from one point of the body to another, in this case, supposing the spot where
the surface board is applied to be the centre, and the rest of the body the periphery, a current
runs between every point of the periphery and the centre, its direction being centripetal when
the surface board communicates with the negative, centrifugal when with the positive pole of
the battery.

The current is felt more or less intensely in proportion to the proximity to the body of the
surface board. With the galvanic this is less noticeable than with the faradic current. When,
for example, a faradic current of medium strength being employed, the surface board is held
about six inches from the abdominal surface, little or no current is felt. Let the surface
board be now gradually approximated to the abdomen, and the current will be felt more and more
sensibly, until, when about an inch away from the skin, or touching this, its influence becomes
so strong as to cause more or less energetic contractions of the abdominal muscles. Where the
galvanic current is employed, the skin beneath the surface board will be found more or less
reddened after a few minutes’ application; the burning sensation ordinarily accompanying galvanic
applications will also be experienced more or less intensely, in proportion to the strength
of the current employed.

Where the current is to be concentrated in a manner still more energetic than that described,
this can be effected by raising the objective part above the surface of the water, and then
applying the surface board. In this way the entire strength of the current is concentrated
in one spot, whereas, when the surface board is applied under water, a large portion of current
is absorbed by this.

This appears to me the fittest place to say a few words in regard to the relative conductivity
of the human body and water—the latter at the temperature ordinarily employed in baths, say
from 90° to 95° Fahrenheit. BEARD and ROCKWELL, in their work on Medical and Surgical Electricity,[2]
state that “the human body is a better conductor of electricity than water at the same temperature.”
Certain phenomena connected with the administration of electric baths having forced upon me
some doubts in this respect, I made very careful experiments, both with and without the aid
of the galvanometer (Bradley’s Tangent), to satisfy these. Without wearying the reader with
details, I will state that the result of my experiments leaves no room for doubt that water
at the temperatures stated—and still more so at 98½°—is superior to the human body as a conductor
of electricity. I do not mean to be understood that water is a better conductor than every
constituent of the human body; blood, for example, is a better conductor. But when I speak
of the body in this connection, I take it as we find it practically, i.e., with the resistance
of the skin, and especially the epidermis, superadded to internal resistances. I have no doubt
that with a flayed individual it would be otherwise. I will add, that it will give me great
pleasure to repeat these experiments, which are sufficiently simple, in the presence of any
of my confreres who feel an interest in the subject.

Having thus cursorily considered the manner of using the electric current in the administration
of a “routine” bath, and there being no remarks required concerning the water employed, in
addition to what has been said in the previous chapter, a few words are in place on the subject
of chemicals. As has been previously stated (page 13) these are added: a) to be absorbed, and
thus act medicinally on the patient; b) to act on the skin; c) through chemical affinity to
facilitate the elimination from the body of certain metallic substances, and d) to further
the absorption of morbid deposits. Of the many drugs and medicines that no doubt may be made
to answer these various purposes, I have had personal experience with but few, and of these
I will mention the leading ones only. A requisite of all chemicals to be employed is their
ready solubility in water. Of substances intended for absorption[3] I have used but three,
viz: iron, iodine, and extract of malt. The first of these I have employed in anæmic and enfeebled
conditions generally, but especially in chlorosis and chlorotic hysteria, with marked success.
It has the advantage, when administered in this manner, not only of sparing the alimentary
canal the frequently injurious task of becoming the medium of its assimilation, but, in addition
to this, I believe that it can in this way be introduced into the blood much more rapidly and
in larger quantities than when given by the mouth. The preparation which I have found, all
things considered, the most eligible for this purpose, is the “tartrate of iron and ammonia.”
This is very readily soluble, leaving no deposit, is assimilable, and not too expensive for
the purpose. As, in my experience at least, it leaves nothing to wish for, I would consider
it superfluous to discuss in this connection any of the other ferruginous preparations.

Iodine I have employed with a view to its absorption in rheumatism and gout. I cannot speak
favorably of it in this connection. I have not in a single instance found a bath charged with
iodine, either in the form of the tincture or of iodide of potassium, followed by results in
any way differing from those of the simple galvanic bath employed in the same cases.

Extract of malt I have employed as a roborant, either alone or in conjunction with iron, in
cases of debility and malnutrition, and found it of service.

Where the absorption of substances is aimed at, the galvanic current must be employed.

Where we add substances to an electric bath with a view of producing some special action on
the skin, we may be guided by the same principles that govern ordinary balneology. Thus to
obtain counter-irritant effects, we may add mustard or common salt; to render the bath alkaline,
bicarbonate of potassa or soda, etc., etc.

An important object to be furthered by the addition to the galvanic bath of chemicals, is the
elimination from the system of certain metallic substances. It will be found here that in practice
we have to deal chiefly with two substances, viz: mercury and lead. That the elimination of
these bodies by means of the galvanic bath is feasible, I shall endeavor to demonstrate further
on. At present I have simply to consider the chemicals adapted for the purpose, and the manner
of using them.

To facilitate the extraction from the system of mercury, nitric-acid has been recommended by
those who have heretofore instituted this treatment. While I cannot positively deny that this
substance may aid in the elimination of the metal, I am compelled to state, after its trial
in several cases, that I have obtained equally good results from the simple galvanic bath.
In the light of my own limited experience, therefore, I cannot insist on the necessity of adding
any chemical to a galvanic bath which is administered for the purpose of extracting mercury
from the body.

