The man paused and half released Jurgis. "Come 'long ole chappie," said the other, and Jurgis
started toward him.

"Master Frederick!" exclaimed the man.

"See that the cabbie--hic--is paid," was the other's response; and he linked his arm in Jurgis'.
Jurgis was about to say, "I have the money for him," but he restrained himself. The stout man
in uniform signaled to the other, who went out to the cab, while he followed Jurgis and his
young master.

They went down the great hall, and then turned. Before them were two huge doors.

"Hamilton," said Master Freddie.

"Well, sir?" said the other.

"Whuzzamatter wizze dinin'-room doors?"

"Nothing is the matter, sir."

"Then why dontcha openum?"

The man rolled them back; another vista lost itself in the darkness. "Lights," commanded Master
Freddie; and the butler pressed a button, and a flood of brilliant incandescence streamed from
above, half-blinding Jurgis. He stared; and little by little he made out the great apartment,
with a domed ceiling from which the light poured, and walls that were one enormous painting--nymphs
and dryads dancing in a flower-strewn glade--Diana with her hounds and horses, dashing headlong
through a mountain streamlet--a group of maidens bathing in a forest pool--all life-size, and
so real that Jurgis thought that it was some work of enchantment, that he was in a dream palace.
Then his eye passed to the long table in the center of the hall, a table black as ebony, and
gleaming with wrought silver and gold. In the center of it was a huge carven bowl, with the
glistening gleam of ferns and the red and purple of rare orchids, glowing from a light hidden
somewhere in their midst.

"This's the dinin' room," observed Master Freddie. "How you like it, hey, ole sport?"

He always insisted on having an answer to his remarks, leaning over Jurgis and smiling into
his face. Jurgis liked it.

"Rummy ole place to feed in all 'lone, though," was Freddie's comment--"rummy's hell! Whuzya
think, hey?" Then another idea occurred to him and he went on, without waiting: "Maybe you
never saw anythin--hic--like this 'fore? Hey, ole chappie?"

"No," said Jurgis.

"Come from country, maybe--hey?"

"Yes," said Jurgis.

"Aha! I thosso! Lossa folks from country never saw such a place. Guv'ner brings 'em--free show--hic--reg'lar
circus! Go home tell folks about it. Ole man lones's place--lones the packer--beef-trust man.
Made it all out of hogs, too, damn ole scoundrel. Now we see where our pennies go--rebates,
an' private car lines--hic--by Harry! Bully place, though--worth seein'! Ever hear of lones
the packer, hey, ole chappie?"

Jurgis had started involuntarily; the other, whose sharp eyes missed nothing, demanded: "Whuzzamatter,
hey? Heard of him?"

And Jurgis managed to stammer out: "I have worked for him in the yards."

"What!" cried Master Freddie, with a yell. "You! In the yards? Ho, ho! Why, say, thass good!
Shake hands on it, ole man--by Harry! Guv'ner ought to be here--glad to see you. Great fren's
with the men, guv'ner--labor an' capital, commun'ty 'f int'rests, an' all that--hic! Funny
things happen in this world, don't they, ole man? Hamilton, lemme interduce you--fren' the
family--ole fren' the guv'ner's--works in the yards. Come to spend the night wiz me, Hamilton--have
a hot time. Me fren', Mr.--whuzya name, ole chappie? Tell us your name."

"Rudkus--Jurgis Rudkus."

"My fren', Mr. Rednose, Hamilton--shake han's."

The stately butler bowed his head, but made not a sound; and suddenly Master Freddie pointed
an eager finger at him. "I know whuzzamatter wiz you, Hamilton--lay you a dollar I know! You
think--hic--you think I'm drunk! Hey, now?"

And the butler again bowed his head. "Yes, sir," he said, at which Master Freddie hung tightly
upon Jurgis's neck and went into a fit of laughter. "Hamilton, you damn ole scoundrel," he
roared, "I'll 'scharge you for impudence, you see 'f I don't! Ho, ho, ho! I'm drunk! Ho, ho!"

The two waited until his fit had spent itself, to see what new whim would seize him. "Whatcha
wanta do?" he queried suddenly. "Wanta see the place, ole chappie? Wamme play the guv'ner--show
you roun'? State parlors--Looee Cans--Looee Sez--chairs cost three thousand apiece. Tea room
Maryanntnet--picture of shepherds dancing--Ruysdael--twenty-three thousan'! Ballroom--balc'ny
pillars--hic--imported--special ship--sixty-eight thousan'! Ceilin' painted in Rome--whuzzat
feller's name, Hamilton--Mattatoni? Macaroni? Then this place--silver bowl--Benvenuto Cellini--rummy
ole Dago! An' the organ--thirty thousan' dollars, sir--starter up, Hamilton, let Mr. Rednose
hear it. No--never mind--clean forgot--says he's hungry, Hamilton--less have some supper. Only--hic--don't
less have it here--come up to my place, ole sport--nice an' cosy. This way--steady now, don't
slip on the floor. Hamilton, we'll have a cole spread, an' some fizz--don't leave out the fizz,
by Harry. We'll have some of the eighteen-thirty Madeira. Hear me, sir?"

"Yes, sir," said the butler, "but, Master Frederick, your father left orders--"

And Master Frederick drew himself up to a stately height. "My father's orders were left to
me--hic--an' not to you," he said. Then, clasping Jurgis tightly by the neck, he staggered
out of the room; on the way another idea occurred to him, and he asked: "Any--hic--cable message
for me, Hamilton?"

"No, sir," said the butler.

"Guv'ner must be travelin'. An' how's the twins, Hamilton?"

"They are doing well, sir."

"Good!" said Master Freddie; and added fervently: "God bless 'em, the little lambs!"

They went up the great staircase, one step at a time; at the top of it there gleamed at them
out of the shadows the figure of a nymph crouching by a fountain, a figure ravishingly beautiful,
the flesh warm and glowing with the hues of life. Above was a huge court, with domed roof,
the various apartments opening into it. The butler had paused below but a few minutes to give
orders, and then followed them; now he pressed a button, and the hall blazed with light. He
opened a door before them, and then pressed another button, as they staggered into the apartment.

It was fitted up as a study. In the center was a mahogany table, covered with books, and smokers'
implements; the walls were decorated with college trophies and colors--flags, posters, photographs
and knickknacks--tennis rackets, canoe paddles, golf clubs, and polo sticks. An enormous moose
head, with horns six feet across, faced a buffalo head on the opposite wall, while bear and
tiger skins covered the polished floor. There were lounging chairs and sofas, window seats
covered with soft cushions of fantastic designs; there was one corner fitted in Persian fashion,
with a huge canopy and a jeweled lamp beneath. Beyond, a door opened upon a bedroom, and beyond
that was a swimming pool of the purest marble, that had cost about forty thousand dollars.

Master Freddie stood for a moment or two, gazing about him; then out of the next room a dog
emerged, a monstrous bulldog, the most hideous object that Jurgis had ever laid eyes upon.
He yawned, opening a mouth like a dragon's; and he came toward the young man, wagging his tail.
"Hello, Dewey!" cried his master. "Been havin' a snooze, ole boy? Well, well--hello there,
whuzzamatter?" (The dog was snarling at Jurgis.) "Why, Dewey--this' my fren', Mr. Rednose--ole
fren' the guv'ner's! Mr. Rednose, Admiral Dewey; shake han's--hic. Ain't he a daisy, though--blue
ribbon at the New York show--eighty-five hundred at a clip! How's that, hey?"

The speaker sank into one of the big armchairs, and Admiral Dewey crouched beneath it; he did
not snarl again, but he never took his eyes off Jurgis. He was perfectly sober, was the Admiral.

The butler had closed the door, and he stood by it, watching Jurgis every second. Now there
came footsteps outside, and, as he opened the door a man in livery entered, carrying a folding
table, and behind him two men with covered trays. They stood like statues while the first spread
the table and set out the contents of the trays upon it. There were cold pates, and thin slices
of meat, tiny bread and butter sandwiches with the crust cut off, a bowl of sliced peaches
and cream (in January), little fancy cakes, pink and green and yellow and white, and half a
dozen ice-cold bottles of wine.

"Thass the stuff for you!" cried Master Freddie, exultantly, as he spied them. "Come 'long,
ole chappie, move up."

And he seated himself at the table; the waiter pulled a cork, and he took the bottle and poured
three glasses of its contents in succession down his throat. Then he gave a long-drawn sigh,
and cried again to Jurgis to seat himself.

The butler held the chair at the opposite side of the table, and Jurgis thought it was to keep
him out of it; but finally he understand that it was the other's intention to put it under
him, and so he sat down, cautiously and mistrustingly. Master Freddie perceived that the attendants
embarrassed him, and he remarked with a nod to them, "You may go."

They went, all save the butler.

"You may go too, Hamilton," he said.

"Master Frederick--" the man began.

"Go!" cried the youngster, angrily. "Damn you, don't you hear me?"

The man went out and closed the door; Jurgis, who was as sharp as he, observed that he took
the key out of the lock, in order that he might peer through the keyhole.

Master Frederick turned to the table again. "Now," he said, "go for it."

Jurgis gazed at him doubtingly. "Eat!" cried the other. "Pile in, ole chappie!"

"Don't you want anything?" Jurgis asked.

"Ain't hungry," was the reply--"only thirsty. Kitty and me had some candy--you go on."

So Jurgis began, without further parley. He ate as with two shovels, his fork in one hand and
his knife in the other; when he once got started his wolf-hunger got the better of him, and
he did not stop for breath until he had cleared every plate. "Gee whiz!" said the other, who
had been watching him in wonder.

Then he held Jurgis the bottle. "Lessee you drink now," he said; and Jurgis took the bottle
and turned it up to his mouth, and a wonderfully unearthly liquid ecstasy poured down his throat,
tickling every nerve of him, thrilling him with joy. He drank the very last drop of it, and
then he gave vent to a long-drawn "Ah!"

"Good stuff, hey?" said Freddie, sympathetically; he had leaned back in the big chair, putting
his arm behind his head and gazing at Jurgis.

And Jurgis gazed back at him. He was clad in spotless evening dress, was Freddie, and looked
very handsome--he was a beautiful boy, with light golden hair and the head of an Antinous.
He smiled at Jurgis confidingly, and then started talking again, with his blissful insouciance.
This time he talked for ten minutes at a stretch, and in the course of the speech he told Jurgis
all of his family history. His big brother Charlie was in love with the guileless maiden who
played the part of "Little Bright-Eyes" in "The Kaliph of Kamskatka." He had been on the verge
of marrying her once, only "the guv'ner" had sworn to disinherit him, and had presented him
with a sum that would stagger the imagination, and that had staggered the virtue of "Little
Bright-Eyes." Now Charlie had got leave from college, and had gone away in his automobile on
the next best thing to a honeymoon. "The guv'ner" had made threats to disinherit another of
his children also, sister Gwendolen, who had married an Italian marquis with a string of titles
and a dueling record. They lived in his chateau, or rather had, until he had taken to firing
the breakfast dishes at her; then she had cabled for help, and the old gentleman had gone over
to find out what were his Grace's terms. So they had left Freddie all alone, and he with less
than two thousand dollars in his pocket. Freddie was up in arms and meant serious business,
as they would find in the end--if there was no other way of bringing them to terms he would
have his "Kittens" wire that she was about to marry him, and see what happened then.

So the cheerful youngster rattled on, until he was tired out. He smiled his sweetest smile
at Jurgis, and then he closed his eyes, sleepily. Then he opened them again, and smiled once
more, and finally closed them and forgot to open them.

For several minutes Jurgis sat perfectly motionless, watching him, and reveling in the strange
sensation of the champagne. Once he stirred, and the dog growled; after that he sat almost
holding his breath--until after a while the door of the room opened softly, and the butler came in.

He walked toward Jurgis upon tiptoe, scowling at him; and Jurgis rose up, and retreated, scowling
back. So until he was against the wall, and then the butler came close, and pointed toward
the door. "Get out of here!" he whispered.

Jurgis hesitated, giving a glance at Freddie, who was snoring softly. "If you do, you son of
a--" hissed the butler, "I'll mash in your face for you before you get out of here!"

And Jurgis wavered but an instant more. He saw "Admiral Dewey" coming up behind the man and
growling softly, to back up his threats. Then he surrendered and started toward the door.

They went out without a sound, and down the great echoing staircase, and through the dark hall.
At the front door he paused, and the butler strode close to him.

"Hold up your hands," he snarled. Jurgis took a step back, clinching his one well fist.

"What for?" he cried; and then understanding that the fellow proposed to search him, he answered,
"I'll see you in hell first."

"Do you want to go to jail?" demanded the butler, menacingly. "I'll have the police--"

"Have 'em!" roared Jurgis, with fierce passion. "But you won't put your hands on me till you
do! I haven't touched anything in your damned house, and I'll not have you touch me!"

So the butler, who was terrified lest his young master should waken, stepped suddenly to the
door, and opened it. "Get out of here!" he said; and then as Jurgis passed through the opening,
he gave him a ferocious kick that sent him down the great stone steps at a run, and landed
him sprawling in the snow at the bottom.

Chapter 25

Jurgis got up, wild with rage, but the door was shut and the great castle was dark and impregnable.
Then the icy teeth of the blast bit into him, and he turned and went away at a run.

When he stopped again it was because he was coming to frequented streets and did not wish to
attract attention. In spite of that last humiliation, his heart was thumping fast with triumph.
He had come out ahead on that deal! He put his hand into his trousers' pocket every now and
then, to make sure that the precious hundred-dollar bill was still there.

Yet he was in a plight--a curious and even dreadful plight, when he came to realize it. He
had not a single cent but that one bill! And he had to find some shelter that night he had
to change it!

Jurgis spent half an hour walking and debating the problem. There was no one he could go to
for help--he had to manage it all alone. To get it changed in a lodging-house would be to take
his life in his hands--he would almost certainly be robbed, and perhaps murdered, before morning.
He might go to some hotel or railroad depot and ask to have it changed; but what would they
think, seeing a "bum" like him with a hundred dollars? He would probably be arrested if he
tried it; and what story could he tell? On the morrow Freddie Jones would discover his loss,
and there would be a hunt for him, and he would lose his money. The only other plan he could
think of was to try in a saloon. He might pay them to change it, if it could not be done otherwise.

He began peering into places as he walked; he passed several as being too crowded--then finally,
chancing upon one where the bartender was all alone, he gripped his hands in sudden resolution
and went in.

"Can you change me a hundred-dollar bill?" he demanded.

The bartender was a big, husky fellow, with the jaw of a prize fighter, and a three weeks'
stubble of hair upon it. He stared at Jurgis. "What's that youse say?" he demanded.

"I said, could you change me a hundred-dollar bill?"

"Where'd youse get it?" he inquired incredulously.

"Never mind," said Jurgis; "I've got it, and I want it changed. I'll pay you if you'll do it."

The other stared at him hard. "Lemme see it," he said.

"Will you change it?" Jurgis demanded, gripping it tightly in his pocket.

"How the hell can I know if it's good or not?" retorted the bartender. "Whatcher take me for, hey?"

Then Jurgis slowly and warily approached him; he took out the bill, and fumbled it for a moment,
while the man stared at him with hostile eyes across the counter. Then finally he handed it over.

The other took it, and began to examine it; he smoothed it between his fingers, and held it
up to the light; he turned it over, and upside down, and edgeways. It was new and rather stiff,
and that made him dubious. Jurgis was watching him like a cat all the time.

"Humph," he said, finally, and gazed at the stranger, sizing him up--a ragged, ill-smelling
tramp, with no overcoat and one arm in a sling--and a hundred-dollar bill! "Want to buy anything?"
he demanded.

"Yes," said Jurgis, "I'll take a glass of beer."

"All right," said the other, "I'll change it." And he put the bill in his pocket, and poured
Jurgis out a glass of beer, and set it on the counter. Then he turned to the cash register,
and punched up five cents, and began to pull money out of the drawer. Finally, he faced Jurgis,
counting it out--two dimes, a quarter, and fifty cents. "There," he said.

For a second Jurgis waited, expecting to see him turn again. "My ninety-nine dollars," he said.

"What ninety-nine dollars?" demanded the bartender.

"My change!" he cried--"the rest of my hundred!"

"Go on," said the bartender, "you're nutty!"

And Jurgis stared at him with wild eyes. For an instant horror reigned in him--black, paralyzing,
awful horror, clutching him at the heart; and then came rage, in surging, blinding floods--he
screamed aloud, and seized the glass and hurled it at the other's head. The man ducked, and
it missed him by half an inch; he rose again and faced Jurgis, who was vaulting over the bar
with his one well arm, and dealt him a smashing blow in the face, hurling him backward upon
the floor. Then, as Jurgis scrambled to his feet again and started round the counter after
him, he shouted at the top of his voice, "Help! help!"

Jurgis seized a bottle off the counter as he ran; and as the bartender made a leap he hurled
the missile at him with all his force. It just grazed his head, and shivered into a thousand
pieces against the post of the door. Then Jurgis started back, rushing at the man again in
the middle of the room. This time, in his blind frenzy, he came without a bottle, and that
was all the bartender wanted--he met him halfway and floored him with a sledgehammer drive
between the eyes. An instant later the screen doors flew open, and two men rushed in--just
as Jurgis was getting to his feet again, foaming at the mouth with rage, and trying to tear
his broken arm out of its bandages.

"Look out!" shouted the bartender. "He's got a knife!" Then, seeing that the two were disposed
to join the fray, he made another rush at Jurgis, and knocked aside his feeble defense and
sent him tumbling again; and the three flung themselves upon him, rolling and kicking about
the place.

A second later a policeman dashed in, and the bartender yelled once more--"Look out for his
knife!" Jurgis had fought himself half to his knees, when the policeman made a leap at him,
and cracked him across the face with his club. Though the blow staggered him, the wild-beast
frenzy still blazed in him, and he got to his feet, lunging into the air. Then again the club
descended, full upon his head, and he dropped like a log to the floor.

The policeman crouched over him, clutching his stick, waiting for him to try to rise again;
and meantime the barkeeper got up, and put his hand to his head. "Christ!" he said, "I thought
I was done for that time. Did he cut me?"

"Don't see anything, Jake," said the policeman. "What's the matter with him?"

"Just crazy drunk," said the other. "A lame duck, too--but he 'most got me under the bar. Youse
had better call the wagon, Billy."

"No," said the officer. "He's got no more fight in him, I guess--and he's only got a block
to go." He twisted his hand in Jurgis's collar and jerked at him. "Git up here, you!" he commanded.

But Jurgis did not move, and the bartender went behind the bar, and after stowing the hundred-dollar
bill away in a safe hiding place, came and poured a glass of water over Jurgis. Then, as the
latter began to moan feebly, the policeman got him to his feet and dragged him out of the place.
The station house was just around the corner, and so in a few minutes Jurgis was in a cell.

He spent half the night lying unconscious, and the balance moaning in torment, with a blinding
headache and a racking thirst. Now and then he cried aloud for a drink of water, but there
was no one to hear him. There were others in that same station house with split heads and a
fever; there were hundreds of them in the great city, and tens of thousands of them in the
great land, and there was no one to hear any of them.

In the morning Jurgis was given a cup of water and a piece of bread, and then hustled into
a patrol wagon and driven to the nearest police court. He sat in the pen with a score of others
until his turn came.

The bartender--who proved to be a well-known bruiser--was called to the stand, He took the
oath and told his story. The prisoner had come into his saloon after midnight, fighting drunk,
and had ordered a glass of beer and tendered a dollar bill in payment. He had been given ninety-five
cents' change, and had demanded ninety-nine dollars more, and before the plaintiff could even
answer had hurled the glass at him and then attacked him with a bottle of bitters, and nearly
wrecked the place.

Then the prisoner was sworn--a forlorn object, haggard and unshorn, with an arm done up in
a filthy bandage, a cheek and head cut, and bloody, and one eye purplish black and entirely
closed. "What have you to say for yourself?" queried the magistrate.

"Your Honor," said Jurgis, "I went into his place and asked the man if he could change me a
hundred-dollar bill. And he said he would if I bought a drink. I gave him the bill and then
he wouldn't give me the change."

The magistrate was staring at him in perplexity. "You gave him a hundred-dollar bill!" he exclaimed.

"Yes, your Honor," said Jurgis.

"Where did you get it?"

"A man gave it to me, your Honor."

"A man? What man, and what for?"

"A young man I met upon the street, your Honor. I had been begging."

There was a titter in the courtroom; the officer who was holding Jurgis put up his hand to
hide a smile, and the magistrate smiled without trying to hide it. "It's true, your Honor!"
cried Jurgis, passionately.

"You had been drinking as well as begging last night, had you not?" inquired the magistrate.
"No, your Honor--" protested Jurgis. "I--"

"You had not had anything to drink?"

"Why, yes, your Honor, I had--"

"What did you have?"

"I had a bottle of something--I don't know what it was--something that burned--"

There was again a laugh round the courtroom, stopping suddenly as the magistrate looked up
and frowned. "Have you ever been arrested before?" he asked abruptly.

The question took Jurgis aback. "I--I--" he stammered.

"Tell me the truth, now!" commanded the other, sternly.

"Yes, your Honor," said Jurgis.

"How often?"

"Only once, your Honor."

"What for?"

"For knocking down my boss, your Honor. I was working in the stockyards, and he--"

"I see," said his Honor; "I guess that will do. You ought to stop drinking if you can't control
yourself. Ten days and costs. Next case."

Jurgis gave vent to a cry of dismay, cut off suddenly by the policeman, who seized him by the
collar. He was jerked out of the way, into a room with the convicted prisoners, where he sat
and wept like a child in his impotent rage. It seemed monstrous to him that policemen and judges
should esteem his word as nothing in comparison with the bartender's--poor Jurgis could not
know that the owner of the saloon paid five dollars each week to the policeman alone for Sunday
privileges and general favors--nor that the pugilist bartender was one of the most trusted
henchmen of the Democratic leader of the district, and had helped only a few months before
to hustle out a record-breaking vote as a testimonial to the magistrate, who had been made
the target of odious kid-gloved reformers.

Jurgis was driven out to the Bridewell for the second time. In his tumbling around he had hurt
his arm again, and so could not work, but had to be attended by the physician. Also his head
and his eye had to be tied up--and so he was a pretty-looking object when, the second day after
his arrival, he went out into the exercise court and encountered--Jack Duane!

The young fellow was so glad to see Jurgis that he almost hugged him. "By God, if it isn't
'the Stinker'!" he cried. "And what is it--have you been through a sausage machine?"

"No," said Jurgis, "but I've been in a railroad wreck and a fight." And then, while some of
the other prisoners gathered round he told his wild story; most of them were incredulous, but
Duane knew that Jurgis could never have made up such a yarn as that.

"Hard luck, old man," he said, when they were alone; "but maybe it's taught you a lesson."

"I've learned some things since I saw you last," said Jurgis mournfully. Then he explained
how he had spent the last summer, "hoboing it," as the phrase was. "And you?" he asked finally.
"Have you been here ever since?"

"Lord, no!" said the other. "I only came in the day before yesterday. It's the second time
they've sent me up on a trumped-up charge--I've had hard luck and can't pay them what they
want. Why don't you quit Chicago with me, Jurgis?"

"I've no place to go," said Jurgis, sadly.

"Neither have I," replied the other, laughing lightly. "But we'll wait till we get out and see."

In the Bridewell Jurgis met few who had been there the last time, but he met scores of others,
old and young, of exactly the same sort. It was like breakers upon a beach; there was new water,
but the wave looked just the same. He strolled about and talked with them, and the biggest
of them told tales of their prowess, while those who were weaker, or younger and inexperienced,
gathered round and listened in admiring silence. The last time he was there, Jurgis had thought
of little but his family; but now he was free to listen to these men, and to realize that he
was one of them--that their point of view was his point of view, and that the way they kept
themselves alive in the world was the way he meant to do it in the future.

