HOW I FOUND LIVINGSTONE. Travels, Adventures and Discoveries in Central Africa including four
months residence with Dr. Livingstone

by

Sir Henry M. Stanley, G.C.B.

Abridged

CHAPTER. I.

INTRODUCTORY.  MY INSTRUCTIONS TO FIND AND RELIEVE LIVINGSTONE.

At 3 P.M. I was on my way, and being obliged to stop at Bayonne a few hours, did not arrive
at Paris until the following night.  Of course you will act according to your own plans, and
do what you think best--BUT FIND LIVINGSTONE!"

Said I, wondering at the cool order of sending one to Central Africa to search for a man whom
I, in common with almost all other men, believed to be dead, "Have you considered seriously
the great expense you are likely, to incur on account of this little journey?"

"What will it cost?" he asked abruptly.

"Burton and Speke's journey to Central Africa cost between £3,000 and £5,000, and I fear it
cannot be done under £2,500."

"Well, I will tell you what you will do.

Surprised but not confused at the order--for I knew that Mr. Bennett when once he had made
up his mind was not easily drawn aside from his purpose--I yet thought, seeing it was such
a gigantic scheme, that he had not quite considered in his own mind the pros and cons of the
case; I said, "I have heard that should your father die you would sell the `Herald' and retire
from business."

"Whoever told you that is wrong, for there is not, money enough in New York city to buy the
`New York Herald.'  My father has made it a great paper, but I mean to make it greater.  I
mean that it shall be a newspaper in the true sense of the word.  I mean that it shall publish
whatever news will be interesting to the world at no matter what cost."

"After that," said I, "I have nothing more to say.  Do you mean me to go straight on to Africa
to search for Dr. Livingstone?"

"No!  I wish you to go to the inauguration of the Suez Canal first, and then proceed up the
Nile.  I hear Baker is about starting for Upper Egypt.  Find out what you can about his expedition,
and as you go up describe as well as possible whatever is interesting for tourists; and then
write up a guide-- a practical one--for Lower Egypt; tell us about whatever is worth seeing
and how to see it.

"Then you might as well go to Jerusalem; I hear Captain Warren is making some interesting discoveries
there.  Then visit Constantinople, and find out about that trouble between the Khedive and
the Sultan.

"Then--let me see--you might as well visit the Crimea and those old battle-grounds, Then go
across the Caucasus to the Caspian Sea; I hear there is a Russian expedition bound for Khiva.
From thence you may get through Persia to India; you could write an interesting letter from
Persepolis.

"Bagdad will be close on your way to India; suppose you go there, and write up something about
the Euphrates Valley Railway. Then, when you have come to India, you can go after Livingstone.
Probably you will hear by that time that Livingstone is on his way to Zanzibar; but if not,
go into the interior and find him. If alive, get what news of his discoveries you can; and
if you find he is dead, bring all possible proofs of his being dead. That is all.  Good-night,
and God be with you."

"Good-night, Sir," I said, "what it is in the power of human nature to do I will do; and on
such an errand as I go upon, God will be with me."

I lodged with young Edward King, who is making such a name in New England.  He was just the
man who would have delighted to tell the journal he was engaged upon what young Mr. Bennett
was doing, and what errand I was bound upon.

I should have liked to exchange opinions with him upon the probable results of my journey,
but I dared not do so.  Though oppressed with the great task before me, I had to appear as
if only going to be present at the Suez Canal.  Young King followed me to the express train
bound for Marseilles, and at the station we parted: he to go and read the newspapers at Bowles'
Reading-room--I to Central Africa and--who knows?

There is no need to recapitulate what I did before going to Central Africa.

I went up the Nile and saw Mr. Higginbotham, chief engineer in Baker's Expedition, at Philae,
and was the means of preventing a duel between him and a mad young Frenchman, who wanted to
fight Mr. Higginbotham with pistols, because that gentleman resented the idea of being taken
for an Egyptian, through wearing a fez cap. I had a talk with Capt. Warren at Jerusalem, and
descended one of the pits with a sergeant of engineers to see the marks of the Tyrian workmen
on the foundation-stones of the Temple of Solomon. I visited the mosques of Stamboul with the
Minister Resident of the United States, and the American Consul-General.  I travelled over
the Crimean battle-grounds with Kinglake's glorious books for reference in my hand.  I dined
with the widow of General Liprandi at Odessa.  I saw the Arabian traveller Palgrave at Trebizond,
and Baron Nicolay, the Civil Governor of the Caucasus, at Tiflis.  I lived with the Russian
Ambassador while at Teheran, and wherever I went through Persia I received the most hospitable
welcome from the gentlemen of the Indo-European Telegraph Company; and following the examples
of many illustrious men, I wrote my name upon one of the Persepolitan monuments.  In the month
of August, 1870, I arrived in India.

On the 12th of October I sailed on the barque 'Polly'  from Bombay to Mauritius.  As the 'Polly'
was a slow sailer, the passage lasted thirty-seven days.  On board this barque was a William
Lawrence Farquhar--hailing from Leith, Scotland-- in the capacity of first-mate.  He was an
excellent navigator, and thinking he might be useful to me, I employed him; his pay to begin
from the date we should leave Zanzibar for Bagamoyo. As there was no opportunity of getting,
to Zanzibar direct, I took ship to Seychelles.  Three or four days after arriving at Mahe,
one of the Seychelles group, I was fortunate enough to get a passage for myself, William Lawrence
Farquhar, and an Arab boy from Jerusalem, who was to act as interpreter-- on board an American
whaling vessel, bound for Zanzibar; at which port we arrived on the 6th of January, 1871.

I have skimmed over my travels thus far, because these do not concern the reader.  They led
over many lands, but this book is only a narrative of my search after Livingstone, the great
African traveller.  It is an Icarian flight of journalism, I confess; some even have called
it Quixotic; but this is a word I can now refute, as will be seen before the reader arrives
at the "Finis."

I have used the word "soldiers" in this book.  The armed escort a traveller engages to accompany
him into East Africa is composed of free black men, natives of Zanzibar, or freed slaves from
the interior, who call themselves "askari," an Indian name which, translated, means "soldiers."
They are armed and equipped like soldiers, though they engage themselves also as servants;
but it would be more pretentious in me to call them servants, than to use the word "soldiers;"
and as I have been more in the habit of calling them soldiers than "my watuma"--servants--this
habit has proved too much to be overcome.  I have therefore allowed the word "soldiers " to
appear, accompanied, however, with this apology.

But it must be remembered that I am writing a narrative of my own adventures and travels, and
that until I meet Livingstone, I presume the greatest interest is attached to myself, my marches,
my troubles, my thoughts, and my impressions.  Yet though I may sometimes write, "my expedition,"
or "my caravan," it by no means follows that I arrogate to myself this right.  For it must
be distinctly understood that it is the "`New York Herald' Expedition," and that I am only
charged with its command by Mr. James Gordon Bennett, the proprietor of the `New York Herald,'
as a salaried employ of that gentleman.

One thing more; I have adopted the narrative form of relating the story of the search, on account
of the greater interest it appears to possess over the diary form, and I think that in this
manner I avoid the great fault of repetition for which some travellers have been severely criticised.

CHAPTER II.  ZANZIBAR.

On the morning of the 6th January, 1871, we were sailing through the channel that separates
the fruitful island of Zanzibar from Africa.  The high lands of the continent loomed like a
lengthening shadow in the grey of dawn.  The island lay on our left, distant but a mile, coming
out of its shroud of foggy folds bit by bit as the day advanced, until it finally rose clearly
into view, as fair in appearance as the fairest of the gems of creation.  It appeared low,
but not flat; there were gentle elevations cropping hither and yon above the languid but graceful
tops of the cocoa-trees that lined the margin of the island, and there were depressions visible
at agreeable intervals, to indicate where a cool gloom might be found by those who sought relief
from a hot sun.  With the exception of the thin line of sand, over which the sap-green water
rolled itself with a constant murmur and moan, the island seemed buried under one deep stratum
of verdure.

The noble bosom of the strait bore several dhows speeding in and out of the bay of Zanzibar
with bellying sails.  Towards the south, above the sea line of the horizon, there appeared
the naked masts of several large ships, and to the east of these a dense mass of white, flat-topped
houses.  This was Zanzibar, the capital of the island;--which soon resolved itself into a pretty
large and compact city, with all the characteristics of Arab architecture.  Above some of the
largest houses lining the bay front of the city streamed the blood-red banner of the Sultan,
Seyd Burghash, and the flags of the American, English, North German Confederation, and French
Consulates.  In the harbor were thirteen large ships, four Zanzibar men-of-war, one English
man-of-war--the `Nymphe,' two American, one French, one Portuguese, two English, and two German
merchantmen, besides numerous dhows hailing from Johanna and Mayotte of the Comoro Islands,
dhows from Muscat and Cutch--traders between India, the Persian Gulf, and Zanzibar.

It was with the spirit of true hospitality and courtesy that Capt. Francis R. Webb, United
States Consul, (formerly of the United States Navy), received me.  Had this gentleman not rendered
me such needful service, I must have condescended to take board and lodging at a house known
as "Charley's," called after the proprietor, a Frenchman, who has won considerable local notoriety
for harboring penniless itinerants, and manifesting a kindly spirit always, though hidden under
such a rugged front; or I should have been obliged to pitch my double-clothed American drill
tent on the sandbeach of this tropical island, which was by no means a desirable thing.

But Capt. Webb's opportune proposal to make his commodious and comfortable house my own; to
enjoy myself, with the request that I would call for whatever I might require, obviated all
unpleasant alternatives.

One day's life at Zanzibar made me thoroughly conscious of my ignorance respecting African
people and things in general.  I imagined I had read Burton and Speke through, fairly well,
and that consequently I had penetrated the meaning, the full importance and grandeur, of the
work I was about to be engaged upon. But my estimates, for instance, based upon book information,
were simply ridiculous, fanciful images of African attractions were soon dissipated, anticipated
pleasures vanished, and all crude ideas began to resolve themselves into shape.

I strolled through the city.  My general impressions are of crooked, narrow lanes, white-washed
houses, mortar-plastered streets, in the clean quarter;--of seeing alcoves on each side, with
deep recesses, with a fore-ground of red-turbaned Banyans, and a back-ground of flimsy cottons,
prints, calicoes, domestics and what not; or of floors crowded with ivory tusks; or of dark
corners with a pile of unginned and loose cotton; or of stores of crockery, nails, cheap Brummagem
ware, tools, &c., in what I call the Banyan quarter;--of streets smelling very strong--in fact,
exceedingly, malodorous, with steaming yellow and black bodies, and woolly heads, sitting at
the doors of miserable huts, chatting, laughing, bargaining, scolding, with a compound smell
of hides, tar, filth, and vegetable refuse, in the negro quarter;--of streets lined with tall,
solid-looking houses, flat roofed, of great carved doors with large brass knockers, with baabs
sitting cross-legged watching the dark entrance to their masters' houses; of a shallow sea-inlet,
with some dhows, canoes, boats, an odd steam-tub or two, leaning over on their sides in a sea
of mud which the tide has just left behind it; of a place called "M'nazi-Moya," "One Cocoa-tree,"
whither Europeans wend on evenings with most languid steps, to inhale the sweet air that glides
over the sea, while the day is dying and the red sun is sinking westward; of a few graves of
dead sailors, who paid the forfeit of their lives upon arrival in this land; of a tall house
wherein lives Dr. Tozer, "Missionary Bishop of Central Africa," and his school of little Africans;
and of many other things, which got together into such a tangle, that I had to go to sleep,
lest I should never be able to separate the moving images, the Arab from the African; the African
from the Banyan; the Banyan from the Hindi; the Hindi from the European, &c.

Zanzibar is the Bagdad, the Ispahan, the Stamboul, if you like, of East Africa.  It is the
great mart which invites the ivory traders from the African interior.  To this market come
the gum-copal, the hides, the orchilla weed, the timber, and the black slaves from Africa.
Bagdad had great silk bazaars, Zanzibar has her ivory bazaars; Bagdad once traded in jewels,
Zanzibar trades in gum-copal; Stamboul imported Circassian and Georgian slaves; Zanzibar imports
black beauties from Uhiyow, Ugindo, Ugogo, Unyamwezi and Galla.

The same mode of commerce obtains here as in all Mohammedan countries--nay, the mode was in
vogue long before Moses was born. The Arab never changes.  He brought the custom of his forefathers
with him when he came to live on this island.  He is as much of an Arab here as at Muscat or
Bagdad; wherever he goes to live he carries with him his harem, his religion, his long robe,
his shirt, his slippers, and his dagger.  If he penetrates Africa, not all the ridicule of
the negroes can make him change his modes of life.  Yet the land has not become Oriental; the
Arab has not been able to change the atmosphere.  The land is semi-African in aspect; the city
is but semi-Arabian.

To a new-comer into Africa, the Muscat Arabs of Zanzibar are studies.  There is a certain empressement
about them which we must admire.  They are mostly all travellers.  There are but few of them
who have not been in many dangerous positions, as they penetrated Central Africa in search
of the precious ivory; and their various experiences have given their features a certain unmistakable
air of-self-reliance, or of self-sufficiency; there is a calm, resolute, defiant, independent
air about them, which wins unconsciously one's respect.  The stories that some of these men
could tell, I have often thought, would fill many a book of thrilling adventures.

For the half-castes I have great contempt.  They are neither black nor white, neither good
nor bad, neither to be admired nor hated.  They are all things, at all times; they are always
fawning on the great Arabs, and always cruel to those unfortunates brought under their yoke.
If I saw a miserable, half-starved negro, I was always sure to be told he belonged to a half-caste.
Cringing and hypocritical, cowardly and debased, treacherous and mean, I have always found
him.  He seems to be for ever ready to fall down and worship a rich Arab, but is relentless
to a poor black slave.  When he swears most, you may be sure he lies most, and yet this is
the breed which is multiplied most at Zanzibar.

The Banyan is a born trader, the beau-ideal of a sharp money-making man.  Money flows to his
pockets as naturally as water down a steep.  No pang of conscience will prevent him from cheating
his fellow man.  He excels a Jew, and his only rival in a market is a Parsee; an Arab is a
babe to him.  It is worth money to see him labor with all his energy, soul and body, to get
advantage by the smallest fraction of a coin over a native.  Possibly the native has a tusk,
and it may weigh a couple of frasilahs, but, though the scales indicate the weight, and the
native declares solemnly that it must be more than two frasilahs, yet our Banyan will asseverate
and vow that the native knows nothing whatever about it, and that the scales are wrong; he
musters up courage to lift it--it is a mere song, not much more than a frasilah.  "Come," he
will say, "close, man, take the money and go thy way.  Art thou mad?" If the native hesitates,
he will scream in a fury; he pushes him about, spurns the ivory with contemptuous indifference,--never
was such ado about nothing; but though he tells the astounded native to be up and going, he
never intends the ivory shall leave his shop.

The Banyans exercise, of all other classes, most influence on the trade of Central Africa.
With the exception of a very few rich Arabs, almost all other traders are subject to the pains
and penalties which usury imposes.  A trader desirous to make a journey into the interior,
whether for slaves or ivory, gum-copal, or orchilla weed, proposes to a Banyan to advance him
$5,000, at 50, 60, or 70 per cent. interest.  The Banyan is safe enough not to lose, whether
the speculation the trader is engaged upon pays or not.  An experienced trader seldom loses,
or if he has been unfortunate, through no deed of his own, he does not lose credit; with the
help of the Banyan, he is easily set on his feet again.

We will suppose, for the sake of illustrating how trade with the interior is managed, that
the Arab conveys by his caravan $5,000's worth of goods into the interior.  At Unyanyembe the
goods are worth $10,000; at Ujiji, they are worth $15,000: they have trebled in price.  Five
doti, or $7.50, will purchase a slave in the markets of Ujiji that will fetch in Zanzibar $30.
Ordinary menslaves may be purchased for $6 which would sell for $25 on the coast.  We will
say he purchases slaves to the full extent of his means--after deducting $1,500 expenses of
carriage to Ujiji and back--viz. $3,500, the slaves--464 in number, at $7-50 per head-- would
realize $13,920 at Zanzibar!  Again, let us illustrate trade in ivory.  A merchant takes $5,000
to Ujiji, and after deducting $1,500 for expenses to Ujiji, and back to Zanzibar, has still
remaining $3,500 in cloth and beads, with which he purchases ivory.  At Ujiji ivory is bought
at $20 the frasilah, or 35 lbs., by which he is enabled with $3,500 to collect 175 frasilahs,
which, if good ivory, is worth about $60 per frasilah at Zanzibar. The merchant thus finds
that he has realized $10,500 net profit! Arab traders have often done better than this, but
they almost always have come back with an enormous margin of profit.

The next people to the Banyansin power in Zanzibar are the Mohammedan Hindis.  Really it has
been a debateable subject in my mind whether the Hindis are not as wickedly determined to cheat
in trade as the Banyans.  But, if I have conceded the palm to the latter, it has been done
very reluctantly.  This tribe of Indians can produce scores of unconscionable rascals where
they can show but one honest merchant.  One of the honestest among men, white or black, red
or yellow, is a Mohammedan Hindi called Tarya Topan. Among the Europeans at Zanzibar, he has
become a proverb for honesty, and strict business integrity.  He is enormously wealthy, owns
several ships and dhows, and is a prominent man in the councils of Seyd Burghash.  Tarya has
many children, two or three of whom are grown-up sons, whom he has reared up even as he is
himself.  But Tarya is but a representative of an exceedingly small minority.

The Arabs, the Banyans, and the Mohammedan Hindis, represent the higher and the middle classes.
These classes own the estates, the ships, and the trade.  To these classes bow the half-caste
and the negro.

The next most important people who go to make up the mixed population of this island are the
negroes.  They consist of the aborigines, Wasawahili, Somalis, Comorines, Wanyamwezi, and a
host of tribal representatives of Inner Africa.

To a white stranger about penetrating Africa, it is a most interesting walk through the negro
quarters of the Wanyamwezi and the Wasawahili.  For here he begins to learn the necessity of
admitting that negroes are men, like himself, though of a different colour; that they have
passions and prejudices, likes and dislikes, sympathies and antipathies, tastes and feelings,
in common with all human nature.  The sooner he perceives this fact, and adapts himself accordingly,
the easier will be his journey among the several races of the interior.  The more plastic his
nature, the more prosperous will be his travels.

Though I had lived some time among the negroes of our Southern States, my education was Northern,
and I had met in the United States black men whom I was proud to call friends.  I was thus
prepared to admit any black man, possessing the attributes of true manhood or any good qualities,
to my friendship, even to a brotherhood with myself; and to respect him for such, as much as
if he were of my own colour and race.  Neither his colour, nor any peculiarities of physiognomy
should debar him with me from any rights he could fairly claim as a man.  "Have these men--these
black savages from pagan Africa," I asked myself, "the qualities which make man loveable among
his fellows?  Can these men--these barbarians--appreciate kindness or feel resentment like
myself?" was my mental question as I travelled through their quarters and observed their actions.
Need I say, that I was much comforted in observing that they were as ready to be influenced
by passions, by loves and hates, as I was myself; that the keenest observation failed to detect
any great difference between their nature and my own?

The negroes of the island probably number two-thirds of the entire population.  They compose
the working-class, whether enslaved or free.  Those enslaved perform the work required on the
plantations, the estates, and gardens of the landed proprietors, or perform the work of carriers,
whether in the country or in the city.  Outside the city they may be seen carrying huge loads
on their heads, as happy as possible, not because they are kindly treated or that their work
is light, but because it is their nature to be gay and light-hearted, because they, have conceived
neither joys nor hopes which may not be gratified at will, nor cherished any ambition beyond
their reach, and therefore have not been baffled in their hopes nor known disappointment.

