I don't know how far she ever got with this girl's ambulance corps beyond her own uniform.
She certainly made an imposing ambulance driver herself on the streets of that town. You'd
see her big, shiny, light-blue limousine drive up, with two men on the seat and Genevieve,
in uniform, would be helped out by one of 'em, and you knew right off you'd love to be a wounded
soldier and be drove over shell-torn roads by her own hands.

Anyway, she got mad and left the ambulance service flat, getting into some sort of brawl with
an adjutant general or something through wanting to take a mere detail out of his hands that
he felt should stay right where it was, he being one of these offensive martinets and a stickler
for red tape, and swollen with petty power. So Genevieve May said.

So she looked round for another way to start a few home fires burning on the other side of
the Rhine. I forget what her next strategy was, but you know it was something cute and busy
in a well-fitting uniform, and calculated to shorten the conflict if Germany found it out.
You know that much.

I remember at one time she was riding in parades when the boys would march down to the station
to go off and settle things in their own crude way. I lost track of what she was taking up
for a while, but I know she kept on getting new uniforms till she must of had quite a time
every morning deciding what she was going to be that day, like the father of the German Crown
Prince.

Finally, last spring, it got to be the simple uniform of a waitress. She had figgered out that
all the girls then taking the places of men waiters would get called for nurses sooner or later;
so why shouldn't prominent society matrons like herself learn how to wait on table, so as to
take the girl waiters' places when they went across? Not exactly that; they wouldn't keep on
lugging trays forever in this emergency--only till they could teach new girls the trade, when
some new ones come along to take the places of them that had met the call of duty.

So Genievieve agitated and wrote letters from the heart out to about two dozen society buds;
and then she terrified the owner of the biggest hotel in her home town till he agreed to let
'em come and wait on table every day at lunch.

Genevieve May's uniform of a poor working girl was a simple black dress, with white apron,
cuffs, and cap, the whole, as was right, not costing over six or seven dollars, though her
string of matched pearls that cost two hundred thousand sort of raised the average. The other
society buds was arrayed similar and looked like so many waitresses. Not in a hotel, mebbe,
but in one of these musical shows where no money has been spared.

The lady had a glorious two days ordering these girls round as head waiter and seeing that
everybody got a good square look at her, and so on. But the other girls got tired the second
day. It was jolly and all tips went to the Red Cross, and the tips was big; but it was just
as hard work as if they had really been poor working girls, with not enough recreation about
it. So the third day they rebelled at the head waiter and made Genevieve herself jump in and
carry out trays full of dishes that had served their purpose.

This annoyed Genevieve May very much. It not only upset discipline but made the arms and back
ache. So she now went into the kitchen to show the cook how to cook in a more saving manner.
Her intentions were beautiful; but the head cook was a sensitive foreigner, and fifteen minutes
after she went into his kitchen he had to be arrested for threatening to harm the well-known
society matron with a common meat saw.

The new one they got in his place next day let her mess round all she wanted to, knowing his
job depended on it, though it was told that he got a heartless devil-may-care look in his eyes
the minute he saw her making a cheap fish sauce. But he said nothing.

That hotel does a big business, but it fell off surprising the day after this, twenty-three
people having been took bad with poison from something they'd et there at lunch. True, none
of these got as fur as the coroner, so it never was known exactly what they'd took in; but
the thing made a lot of talk at stricken bedsides and Genevieve spent a dull day denying that
her cooking had done this outrage. Then, her dignity being much hurt, she wrote a letter to
the papers saying this hotel man was giving his guests cheap canned goods that had done the trick.

Next morning this brought the hotel man and one of the best lawyers in the state of Washington
up to the palatial Popper residence, making threats after they got in that no lady taking up
war activities should be obliged to listen to. She got rattled, I guess, or had been dreaming
or something. She told the hotel man and lawyer to Ssh! Ssh!--because that new cook had put
ground glass in the lemon pie and she had a right to lull his suspicions with this letter to
the papers, because she was connected with the Secret Service Department. She would now go
back to the hotel and detect this spy committing sabotage on the mashed potatoes, or something,
and arrest him--just like that! I don't know whatever put the idea into her head. I believe
she had tried to join the Secret Service Department till she found they didn't have uniforms.

Anyway, this hotel man, like the cowardly dog he was, went straight off to some low sneak in
the district attorney's office; and he went like a snake in the grass and found out it wasn't
so; and a real officer come down on Genevieve May to know what she meant by impersonating a
Secret Service agent. This brutal thug talked in a cold but rough way, and I know perfectly
well this minute that he wasn't among those invited to the Popper costume ball of the Allied
nations. He threw a fine scare into Genevieve May. For about a week she didn't know but she'd
be railroaded to Walla Walla. She wore mere civilian creations and acted like a slacker.

But finally she saw the Government was going to live and let live; so she took up something
new. It was still On to Berlin! with Genevieve May.

She wasn't quite up to pulling anything new in her home town; so she went into the outlying
districts to teach her grandmother something. I didn't think up the term for it. That was thought
up by G.H. Stultz who is her son-in-law and president of the Red Gap Canning Factory. This
here new war activity she'd took up consisted of going rough to different places and teaching
housewives how to practice economy in putting up preserves, and so on.

It ain't on record that she ever taught one single woman anything about economy, their hard-won
knowledge beginning about where hers left off--which wasn't fur from where it started; but
she did bring a lot of wholesome pleasure into their simple, hard-working lives.

In this new war activity it wasn't so much how you canned a thing as what you canned. Genevieve
May showed 'em how to make mincemeat out of tomatoes and beets; how to make marmalade out of
turnips and orange peel; how to make preserves out of apple peelings and carrots; and guava
jelly out of mushmelon rinds, or some such thing. She'd go into towns and rent a storeroom
and put up her canning outfit, hiring a couple of the lower classes to do the actual work,
and invite women to bring in their truck of this kind and learn regular old rock-bottom economy.
They'd come, with their stuff that should of been fattening shotes, and Genevieve May would
lecture on how to can it. It looked through the glass like sure-enough human food.

Then, after she'd got 'em all taught, she'd say wouldn't it be nice of these ladies to let
her sell all this canned stuff and give the proceeds to the different war charities! And there
wasn't a woman that didn't consent readily, having tasted it in the cooking. Not a one of 'em
wanted to take home these delicacies. It was right noble or cautious, or something. And after
visiting six or eight of these communities Genevieve May had quite a stock of these magic delicacies
on sale in different stores and was looking forward to putting the war firmly on its feet--only
she couldn't get many reports of sales from this stock.

Then she got a dandy idea. She would come to the Kulanche County Fair at Red Gap, assemble
all her stock there, give one of these here demonstrations in economic canning, and auction
off the whole lot with a glad hurrah. She thought mebbe, with her influence, she might get
Secretary Baker, or someone like that, to come out and do the auctioning--all under the auspices
of Mrs. Genevieve May Popper, whose tireless efforts had done so much to teach the dear old
Fatherland its lesson, and so on. She now had about three hundred jars and bottles of this
stuff after her summer's work, and it looked important.

I got down to the county fair myself last year, having some sure-fire blue-ribbon stock there,
and it was then that I hear G.H. Stultz talking about this here mother-in-law of his, he taking
me aside at their home one night, so his wife, Lucille, wouldn't hear.

"This respected lady is trying to teach her grandmother how to suck eggs--no more, no less,"
he says. "Now she's coming here to pull something off. You watch her--that's all I ask. Everything
that woman touches goes funny. Look how she poisoned those innocent people up at that hotel.
And I'll bet this canned stuff she's going to sell off will kill even mere tasters. If she
only hadn't come to my town! That woman don't seem to realize that I'm cursed with a German
name and have to be miles above suspicion.

"Suppose she sells off this stuff! I give you my word she puts things in it that even a professional
canning factory wouldn't dare to. And suppose it poisons off a lot of our best patriots! Do
you think a mob will be very long blaming me for a hand in it? Why, it'll have me, in no time
at all, reaching my feet down for something solid that has been carefully removed."

I tried to cheer the man up, but he was scared stiff.

"Mark my words," he says. "She'll pull a bloomer! If that woman could go into an innocent hotel
kitchen, where every care is taken to keep things right, and poison off twenty-three people
till they picked at the covers and had relatives wondering what might be in their safe-deposit
boxes, think what she'd do in the great unsanitary outside, where she can use her imagination!

"There's but one salvation for me; I must have trusted agents in the crowd when that stuff
is auctioned off, and they got to collar every last bottle of it, no matter what the cost.
I have to lay down like a pup on the next bond drive, but this is my only hope. For the Lord's
sake, don't you go there and start bidding things up, no matter who she gets for auctioneer!
Don't you bid--even if Woodrow Wilson himself comes out."

That's the impression Genevieve May had made on her own daughter's husband, who is a clear-seeing
man and a good citizen. And it looked like he must secretly buy up her output. She not only
come to town with her canning outfit and her summer's stock of strange preserves, all beauteous
in their jars, but she brought with her to auction off this stuff a regular French flying man
with an honourable record.

She'd met this French officer in the city and entertained him at the palatial Popper home;
and mebbe she'd hypnotized him. He wasn't in good shape, anyway. First place, he'd been fighting
in the air for three years and had been wounded in five places--including the Balkans. Then,
like that wasn't enough for one man, he'd been sent over here to teach our men to fly when
they got a machine; and over here he'd fell out of a cloud one day when his brake or something
went wrong, and this had give him a nice pleasant vacation on crutches.

Genevieve had fastened on him at a time when he probably hadn't the steely resistance Frenchmen
been showing on the West Front. Or, being in a strange country, mebbe he didn't know when politeness
to Genevieve May Popper would become mere cowardice. Anyway, he could talk English well enough;
and Genevieve May brought him to town and made a big hit.

First thing she done was to set up her stock of canned goods in a section they give her in
Horticultural Hall. Them three hundred bottles took up a lot of room and showed up grand between
the fancy-work section, consisting of embroideries, sofa cushions, and silk patch quilts, and
the art section, consisting of hand paintings of interesting objects by bright pupils in the
public school. Then she put in her canning outfit, with a couple of hired natives to do the
work while she lectured on the science of it and tried to get weak-minded patriots to taste things.

Genevieve May had a good time at these demonstrations, speaking in tones of oratory and persuasion
and encouraging the tasters to take a chance. She certainly had discovered some entirely new
flavours that the best chemists hadn't stumbled on. She was proud of this, but a heap prouder
of her French flying man. When she wasn't thinking up new infamies with rutabagas and watermelon
rinds, she'd be showing him off to the fair crowds. She give the impression when she paraded
him that the French Army would of had few flyers if she hadn't stepped into the breach.

And mebbe she wasn't desperate with fear that some of the Red Gap society buds and matrons
would want to stick in with nursing and attentions for the interesting invalid! Nothing like
that with Genevieve May! She kept closer guard on that man than he would of got in the worst
German prison camp. About the only other person in town she'd trust him to was Cousin Egbert Floud.

Cousin Egbert liked the Frenchman a lot at first, and rode him round town to see the canning
factory and the new waterworks and the Chamber of Commerce, and Price's Addition to Red Gap,
and so on. Also, he'd drag him all over the fair grounds to look at prize bulls and windmills
and patent silos.

Cousin Egbert had refused from the first to taste any of Genevieve May's deviltry with the
vegetable kingdom. He swore he was on a diet and the doctor wouldn't answer for his life if
he even tasted anything outside. He was telling me that last day of the fair that the woman
ought to be arrested for carrying on so, Genevieve May being now busy with some highly artificial
ketchup made of carrots, and something else unimportant, with pure vegetable dyes.

"Yes; and she just tried to hand me that same old stuff about what her Japanese maid calls
her," he says to me at this time. "She says I could never guess what that funny little mite
calls her. And I says no, I never could of guessed it if she hadn't already told me; but I
says I know it is Madam Peach Blossom, and that Jap maid sure is one funny little mite, thinking
up a thing like that, the Japanese being a serious race and not given to saying laughable things."

That's Cousin Egbert all over. He ain't a bit like one of them courters of the old French courts
that you read about in the Famous Crimes of History.

"Madam Peach Blossom!" he says, snickering bitterly. "Say, ain't them Japs got a great sense
of humour! I bet what she meant was Madam Lemon Blossom!"

Anyway, Genevieve May trusted her flying man to this here brutal cynic when she wouldn't of
trusted him to any of the younger, dancing set. And Cousin Egbert pretty near made him late
for his great engagement to auction off the strange preserves. It was on this third day of
the fair, and Genevieve May was highly excited about it.

She had her stock set up in tiers against the wall and looking right imposing in the polished
glass; and she had a box in front where the Frenchman would stand when he did the auctioning.

That hall was hot, let me tell you, with the high sun beating down on the thin boards. I looked
in a minute before the crowd come, and it looked like them preserves had sure had a second
cooking, standing there day after day.

And this Cousin Egbert, when he should of been leading the Frenchman back to Horticultural
Hall to the auction block, was dragging him elsewhere to see a highly exciting sight. So he
said. He was innocent enough. He wanted to give that Frenchman a good time, he told me afterward.
So he tells him something is going to take place over at the race track that will thrill him
to the bone, and come on quick and hurry over!

The Frenchman is still using one crutch and the crowd is already surging in that direction;
but after finding out it ain't any more silos or windmills, he relies on Cousin Egbert that
it really is exciting, and they manage to get through the crowd, though it was excited even
now and stepped on him and pushed him a lot.

Still he was game, all right. I've always said that. He was about as excited as the crowd;
and Cousin Egbert was, too, I guess, by the time they had pushed up to the railing. I guess
he was wondering what Wild Western kind of deviltry he was going to see now. Cousin Egbert
had told him it wasn't a horse race; but he wouldn't tell him what it was, wishing to keep
it for a glad surprise when the Frenchman would see it with his own eyes.

"Just you wait one minute now!" says Cousin Egbert. "You wait one minute and I bet you'll be
glad you got through that rough crowd with me. You'd go through ten crowds like that, crutch
or no crutch, to see what's going to be here."

The poor man was kind of used up, but he stands there waiting for the thrill, with Cousin Egbert
beaming on him fondly, like a father that's going in one minute to show the little tots what
Santa Claus brought 'em on the tree.

Then the Frenchman hears a familiar roar and a airplane starts up from the lower end of the
field inside the track.

"There!" says Cousin Egbert. "Now I guess you're glad you pushed in here, leg or no leg. I
knew it would be a dandy surprise for you. Yes, sir; the committee got a regular airplane to
give a thrilling flight right here in front of us. You look up in the sky there and pretty
soon you'll see it just as plain, sailing round and round like some great bird; and they say
this man flying it is going to loop the loop twice in succession. Now I bet you're glad you come!"

Cousin Egbert says right at this minute he begun to take a dislike to the Frenchman. After
he'd took all that trouble to get him there to see something exciting, the Frenchman just looked
at him kind of sad for a long time, and then says he believes he'd rather go back some place
where he can set down and rest his leg.

Cousin Egbert says he turned out to be like the Frenchmen you read about that is blasé about
everything in the world and kind of tired of life, not having the least bit of interest in
whatever happens. But, of course, he was polite to his guest and helped push a way back through
the crowd, with the crowd more excited than ever by this time, because the flying machine was
right up in the air, hundreds of feet off the ground.

"You'll think I'm a liar," he says to me; "but it's the God's truth this Frenchman just kept
pushing through that crowd and didn't even turn to look up in the air when this man was actually
risking his life by looping the loop twice in succession. He never turned his head the least bit."

Cousin Egbert says, here he'd been up in one himself and knew what flying meant, but he probably
wouldn't of took the least notice if this dare-devil had been killed right there before thousands.

"I don't understand it," he says. "It sure wouldn't be the least use boosting for a brighter
and busier Red Gap if everybody was as cold-blooded as the French." He was right grouchy about
the French after this.

Anyway, he got his suffering man back to Horticultural Hall somewhat the worse for being stepped
on by the crowd; in fact, the Frenchman is kind of all in when he gets to the auction block.
He sets right down on it looking white, and Genevieve May gets him a glass of water to revive
him. Pretty soon he says he's nearly as well as ever, but that wasn't much.

Now the patriots for the auction begun to throng in and Genevieve May is once more proud and
fluttering. She glances fondly at her noble array of jars, with these illegitimate preserves
shining richly through, and she gets the Frenchman on his feet and onto the box; and the crowd
cheers like mad and presses close. I was standing close to G.H. Stultz, and he whispers to me:

"My Lord! If there was only some means of getting that stock into the German commissary! But
I'm told they analyze everything. Anyway, I got my bidders planted and I'll have to buy up
the stock if it breaks me."

Then the Frenchman begun to talk in a very nice way. He said a few words about his country--how
they had been fighting all these years, not knowing whether they could win or not, but meaning
to fight till there wasn't any fighters left; and how grateful France was for the timely aid
of this great country and for the efforts of beautiful ladies like Madam Popper, and so on.

You bet no one laughed, even if he didn't talk such very good English. They didn't even laugh
when he said beautiful ladies like Madam Popper, though Cousin Egbert, somewhere off in the
crowd, made an undignified sound which he pretended was coughing.

The Frenchman then said he would now ask for bids for these beautiful table delicacies, which
were not only of rich food value but were more priceless than gold and jewels because of having
been imprisoned in the crystal glass by the fair hands of the beautiful Madam Popper; and what
was he offered for six bottles of this unspeakable jelly?

Of course G.H. Stultz would of had 'em in no time if the panic hadn't saved him. Yes, sir;
right then something terrible and unforeseen happened to cause a frightful panic. About five
of them jars of preserves blew up with loud reports. Of course everyone's first thought was
that a German plot was on to lay Horticultural Hall in ruins with dynamite. It sounded such.
No one thought it was merely these strange preserves that had been working overtime in that
furnace.

Women screamed and strong men made a dash for the door over prostrate bodies. And then a lot
more explosions took place. The firing became general, as the reports say. Bottle after bottle
shot its dread contents into the fray, and many feeble persons was tromped on by the mob.

It wasn't any joke for a minute. The big jars, mostly loaded with preserves, went off with
heavy reports; then there was these smaller bottles, filled with artificial ketchup and corked.
They went off like a battery of light field guns, putting down a fierce barrage of ketchup
on one and all. It was a good demonstration of the real thing, all right. I ain't never needed
any one since that to tell me what war is.

The crowd was two thirds out before any one realized just what kind of frightfulness was going
on. Then, amid shot and shell that would still fly from time to time, the bravest, that hadn't
been able to fight their way out, stood by and picked up the wounded under fire and helped
brush their clothes off. The groans of the sufferers mingled with the hiss of escaping ketchup.

Genevieve May was in hysterics from the minute the first high-powered gun was fired. She kept
screaming for everyone to keep cool. And at last, when they got some kind of order, she went
into a perfectly new fit because her Frenchman was missing. She kept it up till they found
the poor man. He was found, without his crutch, at the far end of the hall, though no one has
ever yet figgered how he could get there through the frenzied mob. He was on a chair, weak
and trembling, behind a fancy quilt made by Grandma Watkins, containing over ten thousand pieces
of silk. He was greenish yellow in colour and his heart had gone wrong.

That'll show you this bombardment wasn't any joke. The poor man had been exhausted by Cousin
Egbert's well-meant efforts to show him something exciting, and he was now suffering from sure-enough
shell shock, which he'd had before in more official circumstances.

He was a brave man; he'd fought like a tiger in the trenches, and had later been shot down
out of the air four times, and was covered with wounds and medals and crosses; but this here
enfilade at the fair hands of the beautiful Madam Popper, coming in his weak state, had darn
near devastated what few nerves the war had left him.

It was a sad moment. Genevieve May was again exploding, like her own handiwork, which wasn't
through itself yet by any means, because a solitary shot would come now and then, like the
main enemy had retreated but was leaving rear guards and snipers. Also, people that had had
exhibits in the art section and the fancy-work section was now setting up yells of rage over
their treasures that had been desecrated by the far-flung ketchup.

But tender hands was leading the stricken Frenchman back of the lines to a dressing station,
and all was pretty near calm again, except for G.H. Stultz, who was swearing--or words to that
effect.

It really took a good hour to restore perfect calm and figure up the losses. They was severe.
Of course I don't mean to say the whole three hundred bottles of this ammunition dump had exploded.
Some had been put up only a short while and hadn't had time to go morbid; and even some of
the old stuff had remained staunch.

The mincemeat shrapnel had proved fairly destructive, but the turnip marmalade didn't seem
to of developed much internal energy. All of them jars of marmalade proved to be what they
call "duds." But you bet enough had gone up to make a good battle sketch. The ketchup, especial,
was venomous.

I met G.H. Stultz as I left the trenches. He'd been caught in a machine-gun nest of ketchup
and had only wiped about half of it off his face. He looked like a contagious disease.

"Say, look here," he says; "you can't tell me there isn't a Providence ever watching over this
world to give some of us just what's coming to us!" That was very silly, because I'd never
told him anything of the sort.

Then I go out into No Man's Land and meet Cousin Egbert by a lemonade stand. He was one radiant
being. He asked me to have a glass of the beverage, and I done so; and while I was sipping
it he says brightly:

"Wasn't that some gorgeous display of fireworks? And wasn't it fine to stand there and watch
them bottles laugh their heads off at this food profiteer?"

I said he ought to be right sorry for her--after all the work she'd done.

"Not me!" he says firmly. "She never done any work in her life except to boost her own social
celebrity."

Then he took another gulp of his lemonade and says, very bitter:

"Madam Peach Blossom! I wonder what that funny little mite of hers will say when she sees her
to-night? Something laughable, I bet--like it would be 'Madam Onion Blossom!'--or something
comical, just to give her a good laugh after her hard day."

Such is Cousin Egbert, and ever will be. And Genevieve May, having took up things all round
the circle, is now back to the dance.

X

AS TO HERMAN WAGNER

It had been a toilsome day for Ma Pettengill and me. Since sunup we had ridden more than a
score of mountain miles on horses that could seldom exceed a crawl in pace. At dawn we had
left the flatlands along the little timbered river, climbed to the lava beds of the first mesa,
traversed a sad stretch of these where even the sage grew scant, and come, by way of a winding
defile that was soon a mounting cañon, into big hills unending.

Here for many hours we had laboured over furtive, tortuous trails, aimless and lost, it might
have seemed, but that ever and again we came upon small bands of cattle moving one way. These
showed that we had a mission and knew, after all, what we were about. These cattle were knowingly
bent toward the valley and home. They went with much of a businesslike air, stopping only at
intervals to snatch at the sparse short grass that grows about the roots of the sagebrush.
They had come a long journey from their grazing places, starting when the range went bad and
water holes dried, and now seemed glad indeed to give up the wild free life of a short summer
and become tended creatures again, where strangely thoughtful humans would lavish cut grass
upon them for certain obscure but doubtless benevolent purposes of their own.

It was our mission this day to have a look-see, mebbe as far as Horsefly Mountain, and get
a general idee of how many head was already coming down to eat up the so-and-so shortest hay
crop that had ever been stacked on the Arrowhead since the dry winter of '98, when beef fell
to two cents a pound, with darned few takers at that.

It was really a day of scenic delight, if one hadn't to reflect sorely upon the exigencies
of the beef-cattle profession, and at least one of us was free of this thrall.

What we reached at last were small mountains rather than big hills; vast exclamatory remnants
of shattered granite and limestone, thickly timbered, reckless of line, sharp of peak. One
minute cañon we viewed from above was quite preposterous in its ambitions, having colour and
depth and riot of line in due proportions and quite worthy of the grand scale. It wasn't a
Grand Cañon, but at least it was a baby grand, and I loitered on its brink until reminded sharply
that I'd better pour leather into that there skate if I wanted to make home that night.

I devoutly did wish to make home that night, for the spot we were on was barren of those little
conveniences I am accustomed to. Moreover, the air was keen and a hunger, all day in the building,
called for strong meats. So I not too reluctantly passed on from this scenic miniature of parlour
dimensions--and from the study of a curious boulder thereby which had intrigued me not a little.

Now we were home and relaxed by the Arrowhead fireside, after a moving repast of baked young
sage hens. The already superior dynamics of the meal, moreover, had been appreciably heightened
by a bottle of Uncle Henry's homemade grape wine, which he warmly recommends for colds or parties,
or anything like that. It had proved to be a wine of almost a too-recent crû. Ma Pettengill
said that if Uncle Henry was aiming to put it on the market in quantity production he had ought
to name it the Stingaree brand, because it was sure some stuff, making for malevolence even
to the lengths of matricide, if that's what killing your mother is called. She said, even at
a Polish wedding down across the tracks of a big city, it would have the ambulances and patrol
wagons clanging up a good half hour quicker than usual.

Be that as it may, or is, when I had expected sleep to steal swiftly to the mending of the
day's ravages I merely found myself wakeful and wondering. This stuff of Uncle Henry's is an
able ferment. I wondered about a lot of things. And at the same time I wondered interminably
about that remarkable boulder at the side of the Tom Thumb Grand Cañon. I was even wakeful
enough and discursive enough--my hostess had taken but one glass from the bottle--to wonder
delightedly about all rocks and stones, and geology, and that sort of thing. It was almost
scientific, the way I wondered, as I sat there idly toying with my half-filled glass.

Take this particular boulder, for example. It had once been mere star dust, hadn't it? Some
time ago, I mean, or thereabouts. But it had been star dust; and then, next thing it knew,
it got to be a kind of cosmic stew, such as leisurely foreigners patch out highways with, and
looking no more like a granite boulder than anything.

Then something happened, like someone letting the furnace fire go out the night of the big
freeze; and this stuff I'm talking about grew cold and discouraged, and quit flat, apparently
not caring a hoot what shape it would be found in years and years later, the result being that
it was found merely in the general shape of rocks or boulders--to use the more scientific term--which
is practically no shape at all, as you might say, being quite any shape that happens, or the
shape of rocks and boulders as they may be seen on almost every hand by those of us who have
learned to see in the true sense of the word.

I have had to be brief in this shorter science course on the earth's history before the time
of man, because more important matters claim my attention and other speakers are waiting. The
point is that this boulder up there by the dwarf cañon had survived from unremembered chaos;
had been melted, stewed, baked, and chilled until it had no mind of its own left; then bumped
round by careless glaciers until it didn't care where it came to rest; and at last, after a
few hundred million years of stony unconcern for its ultimate fate, here it had been drawn
by the cunning hand of man sprang into the complex mechanism of our industrial human scramble.

That is to say, this boulder I speak of, the size of a city hall, lying there in noble neglect
since long before wise old water animals were warning their children that this here fool talk
about how you could go up out of the water and walk round on dry land would get folks into
trouble, because how could a body breathe up there when there wasn't any water to breathe in?
And the fools that tried it would soon find out; and serve 'em right! Well, I mean to say,
this boulder that had lain inert and indifferent while the ages wrought man from a thing of
one cell--and not much of a cell at that--bore across that face of it nearest the winding trail,
a lettered appeal, as from one man to another. The letters were large and neatly done in white
paint and the brushwork was recent. And the letters said, with a good deal of pathos, it seemed
to me:

WAGNER'S SYLVAN GLEN, ONLY THIRTY-TWO MILES. HERMAN WAGNER, SOLE PROP.

Let this teach us, one and all, this morning, that everything in Nature has its use if we but
search diligently. I mean, even big rocks like this, which are too big to build homes or even
courthouses of. May we not, at least, paint things on them in plain letters with periods and
commas, and so on, and so give added impetus to whatever is happening to us?

But the evening wears on and the whipping mental urge of grape juice meddled with by Uncle
Henry wears off. And so, before it all ends, what about Herman Wagner, Sole Prop. of Wagner's
Sylvan Glen?

I know it has been a hard day, but let us try to get the thing in order. Why not begin cautiously
with a series of whys? Why any particular sylvan glen in a country where everything is continuously
and overwhelmingly sylvan and you can't heave a rock without hitting a glen? Really, you can't
walk fifty yards out there without stepping on a glen--or in a glen; it doesn't matter. What
I am earnestly trying to get at is, if this Herman Wagner wanted to be sole prop. of a sylvan
glen, why should he have gone thirty-two miles farther for one? Why didn't he have it right
there? Why insanely push thirty-two miles on in a country where miles mean something serious?
Up-and-down miles, tilted horribly or standing on edge!

It didn't seem astute. And Herman achieved simply no persuasion whatever with me by stocking
in that "only." He could have put only all over the rock and it would still have been thirty-two
miles, wouldn't it? Only indeed! You might think the man was saying "Only ten minutes' walk
from the post office"--or something with a real meaning like that. I claimed then and I claim
now that he should have omitted the only and come out blunt with the truth. There are times
in this world when the straight and bitter truth is better without any word-lace. This Wagner
person was a sophist. So I said to him, now, as a man will at times:

"All right, Herman, old top! But you'll have to think up something better than only to put
before those thirty-two miles. If you had said 'Only two miles' it might have had its message
for me. But thirty more than that! Be reasonable! Why not pick out a good glen that parties
can slip off to for a quiet evening without breaking up a whole week? Frankly, I don't understand
you and your glen. But you can bet I'll find out about it!"

So, right away, I said to Ma Pettengill, who by this time had a lot of bills and papers and
ledgers and stuff out on her desk, and was talking hotly to all of them--I said to her that
there was nearly half a bottle of Uncle Henry's wine left, his rare old grape wine laid down
well over a month ago; so she had better toss off a foamy beaker of it--yes, it still foamed--and
answer me a few questions.

It was then she said the things about that there wine being able to inflate the casualty lists,
even of Polish weddings, which are already the highest known to the society page of our police-court
records. She said, further, that she had took just enough of the stuff at dinner to make her
think she wasn't entirely bankrupt, and she wanted to give these here accounts a thorough going-over
while the sensation lasted.

Not wishing to hurt Uncle Henry's feelings, even if he didn't catch me at it, I partook again
of the fervent stuff, and fell into new wonder at the seeming imbecility of Herman Wagner.
I found myself not a little moved by the pathos of him. It was little enough I could get from
Ma Pettengill at first. She spoke almost shortly to me when I asked her things she had to stop
adding silly figures to answer.

What I found out was mostly my own work, putting two and two in their fit relationship. Even
the mention of Herman Wagner's full name brought nothing about himself. I found it most annoying.
I would say: "Come on, now; what about this Herman Wagner that paints wheedling messages across
the face of Nature?" And to this fair, plain query I would merely have more of the woman's
endless help troubles. All that come looking for work these days was stormy petrels, not caring
if they worked or not--just asking for it out of habit.

Didn't she have a singing teacher, a painless dentist, a crayon-portrait artist and a condemned
murderer on her payroll this very minute, all because the able-bodied punchers had gone over
to see that nasty little Belgium didn't ever again attack Germany in that ruthless way? She
had read that it cost between thirty and thirty-five thousand dollars to wound a soldier in
battle. Was that so? Well, she'd tell me that she stood ready to wound any of these that was
left behind for between thirty and thirty-five cents, on easy payments. Wound 'em severely,
too! Not mere scratches.

Presently again I would utter Herman Wagner, only to be told that these dry cows she was letting
go for sixty dollars--you come to cut 'em up for beef and you'd have to grease the saw first.
Or I heard what a scandal it was that lambs actually brought five-fifty, and the Government
at Washington, D.C., setting back idly under the outrage!

Then I heard, with perfect irrelevance to Herman Wagner, that she wouldn't have a puncher on
the place that owned his own horse. Because why? Because he'd use him gentle all day and steal
grain for him at night. Also, that she had some kind of rheumatiz in her left shoulder; but
she'd rather be a Christian Scientist and fool herself than pay a doctor to do the same. It
may all have been true, but it was not important; not germane to the issue, as we so often
say in writing editorials.

It looked so much like a blank for Herman Wagner that I quit asking for a time and let the
woman toil at her foolish ruinous tasks.

After half an hour of it she began to rumble a stanza of By Cool Siloam's Shady Rill; so I
chanced it again, remarking on the sign I had observed that day. So she left her desk for a
seat before the fire and said yes, and they was other signs of Herman's hid off in the mountains
where no one but cows, that can't read a line, would see 'em. She also divulged that Herman,
himself, wasn't anything you'd want a bronze statue of to put up in Courthouse Square.

Well then, come on, now! What about him? No, sir; not by a darned sight! With that there desk
full of work, she simply could not stop to talk now. She did.

Is that the only sign of Herman's you saw? He's got others along them trails. You'll see an
arrow in white paint, pointing to his sylvan glen, and warnings not to go to other glens till
you've tried his. One says: You've tried the rest; now try the best! Another says: Try Wagner's
Sylvan Glen for Boating, Bathing, and Fishing. Meals at all hours! And he's got one that shows
he studied American advertising as soon as he landed in this country. It says: Wagner's Sylvan
Glen--Not How Good, But How Cheap!

I don't know. I ain't made up my mind about Herman, even yet. If it wasn't for why he had to
leave Nevada and if I knew there could be more than one kind of German, then I'd almost say
Herman was the other kind. But, of course, there can't be but one kind, and he showed the Prussian
strain fast enough in why he come up from Reno. Still and all, he's got his engaging points
as a pure imbecile or something.

He don't tell me why he left Reno for a long time after he gets here; not till I'd won his
confidence by showing I was a German sympathizer. It was when Sandy Sawtelle had a plan for
a kind of grand war measure. His grand war measure was to get some secret agents into Germany
and kill off all the women under fifty. He said if you done this the stock would die out, because
look at the game laws against killing does! He told this to everybody. He told it to Herman;
but Herman knew enough to remain noncommittal 'bout it. He told it to me, and I saw right off
it probably couldn't be managed right; and, even if it could be, I said to Sandy, it seemed
to me somehow like it would be sort of inhuman.

Herman heard me say this and got the idea I was a pacifist and a secret friend of his country;
so he confided to me the secret of why he left Reno to keep from having his heart cut out by
Manuel Romares. But no matter!

Anyway, last year in the spring this Herman dropped by, looking for work. He hadn't been in
America long, having stopped with his uncle in Cincinnati a while, and then coming West on
a life of adventure and to take up a career. He said now he'd come up from Nevada, where he'd
been working on a sheep ranch, and he acted like he wanted to get into something respectable
and lead a decent life again.

Well, it had got so I hired everything that come along; so why not Herman? I grabbed at him.
The boys heard he was a German alien and acted, at first, like a bunch of hogs with a bear
about; but I'd of hired old Hinderburg himself if he'd offered and put him to doing something
worth while.

This Herman was the first man ever worked here in side whiskers. He told me, after I showed
myself a German sympathizer, that in the beginning of the war he'd wore one of them moustaches
like the Kaiser puts up in tin fasteners every night after he's said his prayers; but this
had made him an object of unpleasant remark, including missiles. So he had growed this flowering
border round it to take off the curse.

They was beautiful shiny side whiskers and entirely innocent-looking. In the right clothes
Herman could of gone into any Sabbath school in the land and said he was glad to see so many
bright little faces there this morning, and now what was to-day's golden text, and so on. That's
what he looked like. These things fell like portières each side of his face, leaving his chin
as naked as the day he was born. He didn't have any too much under his mouth either; so I guess
the whiskers was really a mercy to his face.

He admitted he didn't know too much about the cow business, but said he was willing to learn;
so I put him on the payroll. We found he was willing to try anything that looked easy; for
instance, like setting on colts for the first time. The first morning he went to work it was
rainy, with the ground pretty wet, and he was out to the corral watching Sandy Sawtelle break
a colt. That's the best time to handle colts that has never been set on. They start to act
up and pour someone out of the saddle; then they slip and slide, helpless, and get the idea
a regler demon of a rider is up there, and give in. So the boys give Herman a fussy two-year-old,
and Herman got away with it not so bad.

Of course he was set off a few times, but not hard; and the colt, slicking over this wet ground,
must of thought another star rider had come to town. Two days later, though, when the ground
was dry, Herman got on the same wild animal again, and it wasn't there when he come down from
his first trip aloft. It traded ends with him neatly and was off in a corner saying. "Well,
looks like that German ain't such a dandy rider after all! I couldn't pull that old one with
him yesterday, but I certainly done it good to-day."

I wasn't near enough to hear what Herman said when he picked himself up; but I'm a good lip
reader since I been going to these moving pictures, and I'm way mistaken if he hadn't learned
two or three good things in English to call a horse at certain times.

He walked for several days with trench feet, and his morale was low indeed. He was just that
simple. He'd try things that sane punchers wouldn't go looking for, if sober; in fact, he was
so simple you might call him simple-minded and not get took up for malicious slander.

So it come to where we seen he wasn't good for anything on this ranch but chore boy. And naturally
we needed a chore boy, like we needed everything else. He could get up wood, and feed the pigs
we was fattening, and milk the three dairy cows, and make butter, and help in the kitchen.
But as for being a cow hand, he wasn't even the first joint on your little finger. He was willing,
but his Maker had stopped right at that point with him. And he had a right happy time being
chore boy.

Of course the boys kidded him a lot after they found out he could positively not be enraged
by the foulest aspersions on the character of the Kaiser and his oldest son. They seen he was
just an innocent dreamer, mooning round the place at his humble tasks. They spent a lot of
good time thinking up things for him.

He'd brought a German shotgun with silver trimmings with him, which he called a fowling piece,
and he wanted to hunt in his few leisure moments; so the boys told him all the kinds of game
that run wild on the place.

There was the cross-feathered snee, I remember, which was said by the bird books to be really
the same as the sidehill mooney. It has one leg shorter than the other and can be captured
by hand if driven to level ground, where it falls over on its side in a foolish manner when
it tries to run. Herman looked forward to having one of these that he could stuff and send
to his uncle in Cincinnati, who wrote that he had never seen such a bird.

Also, he spent a lot of time down on the crick flat looking for a mu, which is the same as
a sneeze-duck, except for the parallel stripes. It has but one foot webbed; so it swims in
a circle and can be easy shot by the sportsman, who first baits it with snuff that it will
go miles to get. Another wild beast they had him hunting was the filo, which is like the ruffle
snake, except that it has a thing like a table leg in its ear. It gets up on a hill and peeks
over at you, but will never come in to lunch. The boys said they nearly had one over on Grizzly
Peak one time, but it swallowed its tail and become invisible to the human eye, though they
could still hear its low note of pleading. Also, they had Herman looking for a mated couple
of the spinach bug for which the Smithsonian Institution had offered a reward of five hundred
dollars, cash.

Herman fell for it all--all this old stuff that I had kicked the slats out of my trundle-bed
laughing at. And in between exciting adventures with his fowling piece he'd write himself some
pieces of poetry in a notebook, all about the cows and the clouds and other natural objects.
He would also recite poetry written by other Germans, if let. And at night he'd play on a native
instrument shaped like a potato, by blowing into one cavity and stopping up other cavities
to make the notes. It would be slow music and make you think of the quiet old churchyard where
your troubles would be o'er; and why not get there as soon as possible? Sad music!

So Herman was looked on as a harmless imbecile by one and all till Eloise Plummer come over
to help in the kitchen while the haying crew was here last summer. And Eloise looked on him
as something else. She looked on Herman as one of them that make it unsafe for girls to leave
home. She had good reason to.

Eloise is in the prime of young womanhood; but this is just exactly as fur as any fair-minded
judge would go to say of her as a spectacle. Her warmest adherents couldn't hardly get any
warmer than that if put under oath. She has a heart of gold undoubtedly, but a large and powerful
face that would belong rightly to the head director of a steel corporation that's worked his
way up from the bottom.

It is not a face that has ever got Eloise pestered with odious attentions from the men. Instead
of making 'em smirk and act rough, but playful, it made 'em think that life, after all, is
more serious than most of us suspect in our idle moments. It certainly is a face to make men
think. And inspiring this black mood in men had kind of reacted on Eloise till they couldn't
quite see what they was ever intended for. It was natural.

I don't say the girl could of cooked all winter in a lumber camp and not been insulted a time
or two; but it wasn't fur from that with her.

So you can imagine how bitter she was when this Herman nut tried to make up to her. Herman
was a whirlwind wooer; I'll say that for him. He told her right off that she was beautiful
as the morning star and tried to kiss her hand. None of these foolish preliminaries for Herman,
like "Lovely weather we're having!" or "What's your favourite flower?"

Eloise was quick-natured, too. She put him out of the kitchen with a coal shovel, after which
Herman told her through a crack of the door that she was a Lorelei.

Eloise, at first, misunderstood this term entirely, and wasn't much less insulted when she
found it meant one of these German hussies that hang round creeks for no good purpose. Not
that her attitude discouraged Herman any; he played under her window that night, and also sang
a rich custard sort of tenor in his native tongue, till I had to threaten him with the bastile
to get any sleep myself.

Next day he fetched her regal gifts, consisting of two polished abalone shells, a picture of
the Crown Prince in a brass frame, and a polished-wood paper knife with Greetings from Reno! on it.

Eloise was now like an enraged goddess or something; and if Herman hadn't been a quick bender
and light on his feet she wouldn't of missed him with his gifts. As it was, he ducked in time
and went out to the spring house to write a poem on her beauty, which he later read to her
in German through a kitchen window that was raised. The window was screened; so he read it
all. Later he gets Sandy Sawtelle to tell her this poem is all about how coy she is. Every
once in a while you could get an idea partway over on Herman. He was almost certain Eloise was coy.

By the end of that second day, after Herman threw kisses to her for ten minutes from on top
of the woodshed, where he was safe, she telephoned her brother to come over here quick, if
he had the soul of a man in his frame, and kill Herman like he would a mad dog.

But Eloise left the next morning, without waiting for anything suitable to be pulled off by
her family. It was because, when she went to bed that night, she found a letter from Herman
pinned to her pillow. It had a red heart on it, pierced by a dagger that was dropping red drops
very sentimentally; and it said would she not hasten to take her vast beauty out in the moonlight,
to walk with Herman under the quiet trees while the nightingale warbled and the snee, or sidehill
mooney, called to its lovemate? And here, as they walked, they could plan their beautiful future
together.

This was beyond Eloise even with a full battery of kitchen utensils at hand. She left before
breakfast; and Herman had to come in and wash dishes.

The next excitement was Herman committing suicide, out in the woodshed, with a rope he'd took
off a new packsaddle. Something interrupted him after he got the noose adjusted and was ready
to step off the chopping block he stood on. I believe it was one more farewell note to the
woman that sent him to his grave. Only he got interested in it and put in a lot more of his
own poetry and run out of paper, and had to get more from the house; and he must of forgot
what he went to the woodshed for because an hour after that he committed an entirely new suicide
with his fowling piece.

Near as I could gather, he was all ready to pull the trigger, looking down into this here frowning
muzzle before a mirror; and then something about his whiskers in the mirror must of caught
his eye. Anyway, another work of self-destruction was off. So he come in and helped with lunch.
Then he told me he'd like to take some time off, because he was going up to the deep pool to
drown himself.

I said was he really bent on it? He said it was requisite, because away from this beautiful
lady, who had torn his heart out and danced on it, he could not continue to live, even for
one day. So I come down on Herman. I told him that, hard up as I was for help, I positively
would not have a man on the place who was always knocking off work to kill himself. It et into
his time, and also it took the attention of others who longed to see him do it.

I said I might stand for a suicide or two--say, once a month, on a quiet Sunday--but I couldn't
stand this here German thoroughness that kept it up continual. At least, if he hoped to keep
on drawing pay from me, he'd have to make way with himself in his own leisure moments and not
on my time.

Herman says I don't know the depths of the human heart. I says I know what I pay him a month,
and that's all I'm needing to know in this emergency. I thought, of course, he'd calm down
and forget his nonsense; but not so. He moped and mooned, and muttered German poetry to himself
for another day, without ever laying a violent hand on himself; but then he come and said it
was no good. He says, however, he will no longer commit suicide at this place, where none have
sympathy with him and many jeer. Instead, he will take his fowling piece to some far place
in the great still mountains and there, at last, do the right thing by himself.

I felt quite snubbed, but my patience was wore out; so I give Herman the money that was coming
to him, wished him every success in his undertaking, and let him go.

The boys scouted round quite a bit the next few days, listening for the shot and hoping to
come on what was left; but they soon forgot it. Me? I knew one side of Herman by that time.
I knew he would be the most careful boy in every suicide he committed. If I'd been a life-insurance
company it wouldn't have counted against him so much as the coffee habit or going without rubbers.

And--sure enough--about two months later the dead one come to life. Herman rollicked in one
night with news that he had wandered far into the hills till he found the fairest spot on earth;
that quickly made him forget his great sorrow. His fairest spot was a half section of bad land
a hopeful nester had took up back in the hills. It had a little two-by-four lake on it and
a grove of spruce round the lake; and Herman had fell in love with it like with Eloise.

He'd stay with the nester, who was half dead with lonesomeness, so that even a German looked
good to him, and wrote to his uncle in Cincinnati for money to buy the place. And now I'd better
hurry over and see it, because it was Wagner's Sylvan Glen, with rowing, bathing, fishing,
and basket parties welcome. Yes, sir! It goes to show you can't judge a German like you would
a human.

I laughed at first; but no one ever got to Herman that way. He was firm and delighted. That
Sylvan Glen was just the finest resort anywhere round! Why, if it was within five miles of
Cincinnati or Munich it would be worth a million dollars! And so on. It done no good to tell
him it was not within five miles of these towns and never would be. And it done less good to
ask him where his customers was coming from, there not being a soul nearer him than twenty
miles, and then only scattered ranchers that has got their own idea of a good time after the
day's work is over, which positively is not riding off to anybody's glen, no matter how sylvan.

"The good people will come soon enough. You'll see!" says Herman. "They soon find out the only
place for miles round where they can get a good pig's knuckle, or blood sausage and a glass
Rhine wine--or maybe beer--after a hard day's work. I got a fine boat on the lake--they can
row and push all round over the water; and I'm getting a house put up with vines on it, like
a fairy palace, and little tables outside! You see! The people will come when they hear!"

That was Herman. He never stopped to ask where they was coming from. He'd make the place look
like a Dutch beer garden and they'd just have to come from somewhere, because what German ever
saw a beer garden that didn't have people coming to it? I reckoned up that Herman would have
enough custom to make the place pay, the quick rate our country is growing, in about two hundred
and forty-five or fifty years.

So that's Wagner's Sylvan Glen you seen advertised. It's there all right; and Herman is there,
waiting for trade, with a card back of his little bar that says, in big letters: Keep Smiling!
I bet if you dropped in this minute you'd find him in a black jacket and white apron, with
a bill of fare wrote in purple ink. He thinks people will soon drop in from twenty miles off
to get a cheese sandwich or a dill pickle, or something.

Two of the boys was over this last June when he had his grand opening. They was the only person
there except a man from Surprise Valley that was looking for stock and got lost. Buck Devine
says the place looked as swell as something you'd see round Chicago.

Herman has a scow on the pond, and a dozen little green tables outside under the spruce trees,
with all the trees white-washed neatly round the bottoms, and white-washed stones along the
driveway, and a rustic gate with Welcome to Wagner's Sylvan Glen! over it. And he's got some
green tubs with young spruces planted in 'em, standing under the big spruces, and everything
as neat as a pin.

Everyone thinks he's plumb crazy now, even if they didn't when he said Eloise Plummer was as
beautiful as the morning star. But you can't tell. He's getting money every month from his
uncle in Cincinnati to improve the place. He's sent the uncle a photo of it and it must look
good back in Cincinnati, where you can't see the surrounding country.

Maybe Herman merely wants to lead a quiet life with the German poets, and has thought up something
to make the uncle come through. On the other hand, mebbe he's a spy. Of course he's got a brain.
He's either kidding the uncle, or else Wagner's Sylvan Glen now covers a concrete gun foundation.

In either case he's due for harsh words some day--either from the uncle when he finds there
ain't any roadhouse patrons for twenty miles round, or from the German War Office when they
find out there ain't even anything to shoot at.

The lady paused; then remarked that, even at a church sociable, Uncle Henry's idee of wine
would probably make trouble to a police extent. Here it had made her talkative long after bedtime,
and she hadn't yet found out just how few dollars stood between her and the poorhouse.

I allowed her to sort papers for a moment. As she scanned them under drawn brows beside a lamp
that was dimming, she again rumbled into song. She now sang: "What fierce diseases wait around
to hurry mortals home!" It is, musically, the crudest sort of thing. And it clashed with my
mood; for I now wished to know how Herman had revealed Prussian guile by his manner of leaving
Reno. Only after another verse of the hymn could I be told. It seems worth setting down here:

Well, Herman is working on a sheep ranch out of Reno, as I'm telling you, and has trouble with
a fellow outcast named Manuel Romares. Herman was vague about what started the trouble, except
that they didn't understand each other's talk very well and one of 'em thought the other was
making fun of him. Anyway, it resulted in a brutal fist affray, greatly to Herman's surprise.
He had supposed that no man, Mexican or otherwise, would dare to attack a German single-handed,
because he would of heard all about Germans being invincible, that nation having licked two
nations--Serbia and Belgium--at once.

So, not suspecting any such cowardly attack, Herman was took unprepared by Manuel Romares,
who did a lot of things to him in the way of ruthless devastation. Furthermore, Herman was
clear-minded enough to see that Manuel could do these things to him any time he wanted to.
In that coarse kind of fighting with the fists he was Herman's superior. So Herman drawed off
and planned a strategic coop.

First thing he done was to make a peace offer, at which the trouble should be discussed on
a fair basis to both sides. Manuel not being one to nurse a grudge after he'd licked a man
in jig time, and being of a sunny nature anyway, I judge, met him halfway. Then, at this peace
conference, Herman acted much unlike a German, if he was honest. He said he had been all to
blame in this disturbance and his conscience hurt him; so he couldn't rest till he had paid
Manuel an indemnity.

Manuel is tickled and says what does Herman think of paying him? Herman shows up his month's
pay and says how would it suit Manuel if they go in to Reno that night and spend every cent
of this money in all the lovely ways which could be thought up by a Mexican sheep herder that
had just come in from a six weeks' cross-country tour with two thousand of the horrible animals.

Manuel wanted to kiss Herman. Herman says he did cry large tears of gladness. And they started
for town.

So they got to Reno, and did not proceed to the Public Library, or the Metallurgical Institute,
or the Historical Museum. They proceeded to the Railroad Exchange Saloon, where they loitered
and loitered and loitered before the bar, at Herman's expense, telling how much they thought
of each other and eating of salt fish from time to time, which is intended by the proprietor
to make even sheep herders more thirsty than normal.

Herman sipped only a little beer; but Manuel thought of many new beverages that had heretofore
been beyond his humble purse, and every new one he took made him think of another new one.
It was a grand moment for Manuel--having anything he could think of set before him in this
beautiful café or saloon, crowded with other men who were also having grand moments.

After a while Herman says to Manuel to come outside, because he wants to tell him something
good he has thought of. So he leads him outside by an arm and can hardly tell what he has to
say because it's so funny he has to laugh when he thinks of it. They go up an alley where they
won't be overheard, and Herman at last manages to keep his laughter down long enough to tell
it. It's a comical antic he wants Manuel to commit.

Manuel don't get the idea, at first, but Herman laughs so hard that at last Manuel thinks it's
just got to be funny and pretty soon he's laughing at it as hard as Herman is.

So they go back to the saloon to do this funny thing, which is to be a joke on the big crowd
of men in there. Herman says he won't be able to do it good himself, because he's got a bad
cold and can't yell loud; but Manuel's voice is getting better with every new drink. Manuel
is just busting with mirth, thinking of this good joke he's going to play on the Americans.

They have one more drink, Manuel taking peach brandy with honey, which Herman says costs thirty
cents; then he looks over the men standing there and he yells good and loud:

"To hell with the President! Hurrah for the Kaiser!"

You know, when Herman told me that, I wondered right off if he hadn't been educated in some
school for German secret agents. Didn't it show guile of their kind? I'll never be amazed if
he does turn out to be a spy that's simply went wrong on detail.

Of course he was safe out of town long before Manuel limped from the hospital looking for him
with a knife. And yet Herman seemed so silly! First thing when he got on the place he wanted
to know where the engine was that pumped the windmill.

Furthermore, if you ask me, that there wine won't be made safe for democracy until Uncle Henry
has been years and years laid away to rest.

XI

CURLS

Ma Pettengill, long morose, for months made hostile of mood by the shortage of help, now bubbled
with a strange vivacity. At her desk in the Arrowhead living room she cheerfully sorted a jumble
of befigured sheets and proclaimed to one and all that the Arrowhead ranch was once more a
going concern. She'd thought it was gone, and here it was merely going. She would no longer
be compelled to stare ruin in the face till it actually got embarrassed and had to look the
other way. And it was the swift doings of this here new foreman. He'd not only got us going
again but had put us on a military basis. And at that he was nothing but a poor old wreck of
a veteran from the trenches, aged all of twenty-one, shot to pieces, gassed, shell-shocked,
trench feeted and fevered, and darned bad with nervous dyspepsia into the bargain.

Thus described, the bargain seemed to me to be a poor one, for I had not yet viewed this decrepit
newcomer or been refreshed with tales of his prowess. But Ma Pettengill knows men, and positively
will not bubble except under circumstances that justify it, so I considered the matter worth
a question or two.

Very well then! What about this mere shattered bit of flotsam from the world welter? How could
so misused a remnant cope with the manifold cares of the long-harried Arrowhead ranch?

Why, he just plain coped, that was all. He might be mere shattered flotsam, but you bet he
was still some little coper, take her word for that! Matter of fact, though, he didn't aim
to hold the job for long. Only until this here smarty of a medical officer, that turned him
down from going back to the trenches, was retired to private life again. This here new foreman
had to be on the ground when this puppet got out of his uniform and so could be handled proper
by the right party without incurring twenty years in Leavenworth. At this brief meeting the
unfortunate man would be told politely that he had guessed wrong on the foreman's physical
condition, after which the same would be proved to him then and there, leaving him to wish
that he hadn't been so arrogant telling parties they was unfit for further service and had
better go home and forget all about the war. Yes, sir; he'd be left himself with something
to forget that most likely he'd still be remembering vividly when folks had got to wondering
what them funny little buttons with "Liberty Loan" on 'em could ever of been used for.

Still, this palsied wreck was with us for a time and had started in that very morning to carry
on. He used but few words, but treated 'em rough if they come looking for it. First, they was
two I.W.W.'s down to the lower field had struck for three-fifty a day, and had threatened to
burn someone's haystacks when it was coldly refused. So one had been took to jail and one to
the hospital the minute the flotsam slowed up with 'em. It was a fair enough hospital case
for both, but the one for jail could still walk.

Then two other new hands, two of these here demi-cowboys you have to put up with, had kept
the bunk house noisy every night with a bitter personal quarrel including loud threats of mutual
murder that never seemed to get any further. So the flotsam, after drinking in some of their
most venomous eloquence, had lined 'em up and commanded 'em to git busy and fight it out quick.
And he had then licked 'em both in a quick and exaggerated manner when they tried to keep on
talking it out with him.

It was a sharply etched impression over the ranch, now shared by its owner, that this here
invalid flotsam would take darned little nonsense from any one. It was also the owner's own
private impression that he had been expelled from the war for rough behaviour on the field
of battle and not because of wounds or sickness. Most likely they'd told him the latter because
they was afraid to tell him the truth. But that was the real truth; he was too scrappy and
wouldn't let the war go on in peace and quiet.

Anyway, she and the Army was both satisfied, so let it go at that. Mebbe after a few more arguments
over there, when they'd made a convinced pro-Ally out of Germany, she might get some more shell-wracked
jetsams like this one, that would step in without regard for the rules of civilized warfare
and make the life of a certain beef-cattle raiser just one long dream of loveliness with pink
rose leaves dreening down on her. Mebbe so!

I was charmed indeed to hear the gladsome note from one so long dismal. So I told the woman
that the longest war must have its end and that by this time next year she would be refusing
to hire good help at forty-five dollars a month and found, in place of the seventy-five she
was now lavishing on indolent stragglers.

She said in that happy case she might consent to adorn the cattle business a few decades longer,
but for her part she didn't believe wars would end. If it wasn't this war it would be another
one, because human beings are undeniably human. As how? Well, I could take it this way. Say
one of these here inventors sets up nights for twenty years inventing a gun that will shoot
through a steel plate sixteen inches thick. All right so far. But the next day another inventor
invents a piece of steel seventeen inches thick. And it had to begin all over--just a seesaw.
From where she set she couldn't see no end to it. Was she right; or wasn't she? Of course!

But now, further, about compelling little boys to wear long curls till maturity, with the idee
of blunting their finer instincts and making hellions of 'em, so's to have some dandy shock
troops for the next war--well, she didn't know. Room for argument there.

This seemed reasonable. I didn't know either. It was an entirely new idee, come from nowhere.
This was the very first moment I had supposed there could be such an idee. But such is Ma Pettengill.
I thought to inquire as to the origin of this novelty; perhaps to have it more fully set forth.
But I had not to. Already I saw unrelenting continuance in the woman's quickened eye. There
would be, in fact, no stopping her now. So I might as well leave a one-line space right here
to avoid using the double and single quotation marks, which are a nuisance to all concerned.
I will merely say that Ma Pettengill spoke in part as follows, and at no time during the interview
said modestly that she would prefer not to have her name mentioned.

Mind you, I don't say war's a good thing, even for them that come out of it. Of course you
can read stories about how good it is in improving the character. I've read pretty ones in
these here sentimental magazines that get close to the great heart of the people once a month;
stories about how the town tough boy, that robs his gray-haired mother of her wash money to
play pool with, goes into war's purifying flames and comes out a man, having rescued Marshal
Fotch from a shell hole under fire and got the thanks of the French nation and his home-town
paper. Now he don't hang round the pool parlour any more, running down fifteen balls from the
break, but shuns his low companions, never touches a cue again, marries the mayor's daughter
and becomes the regular Democratic candidate for county recorder.

These stories may be true. I don't know. Only these same magazines print stories that have
a brave fireman in the picture carrying a fainted girl down his ladder through the flames,
and if you believed them you'd also believe they had to set a tenement house on fire every
time a fireman wants to get married. And that don't stand to reason. Mebbe the other stories
don't either.

But what about the other side of these same stories? What about the village good boy that goes
through war's purifying flame and comes back home to be the town tough? Ain't it time someone
showed up the moral ravages war commits on our best young men?

Me? I just had a talk lately with a widowed mother down to Red Gap and what this beastly war
has done to her oldest boy--well, if she could of looked ahead she would of let the world go
right on being unsafe even for Republicans. She poured her heart out to me. She is Mrs. Arline
Plunkett, one of the sweetest, gentlest mothers that ever guarded a son from every evil influence.
And then to see it all go whoosh! The son's name was Shelley Plunkett, or it was until he went
out into the world to make a name for himself. He is now largely known as Bugs Plunkett. I
leave it to you if a nice mother would relish having her boy make that name for himself. And
after all the pains she'd took with his moral development from the cradle up--till he run away
from home on account of his curls!

Arline had been left well-off by her husband, who was president of the Drovers' Trust Company,
and her home was about the most refined home in Red Gap, having full bookcases and pictures
of foreign Catholic churches--though Arline is a Presbyterian--and metal statues of antique
persons, male and female, and many articles of adornment that can't be had for the ordinary
trading stamps. She lived, of course, only for her two boys, Shelley and Keats. Keats being
an infant didn't require much living for, but Shelley was old enough to need a lot of it.

He was eight years old when I first seen him, with long golden curls to his shoulders and lace
on his velvet pants. He came in when I was calling on his ma and acted the perfect little gentleman.
He was so quiet and grown-up he made me feel right awkward. He had the face of a half-growed
angel framed in these yellow curls, and his manners was them of Sir Galahad that he read stories
about. He was very entertaining this day. His mother had him show me a portrait of himself
and curls that had been printed in a magazine devoted to mothers and watermelon-rind pickles,
and so forth, and he also brought me the new book his pastor had presented him with on his
eighth birthday.

It was a lovely bound book, having a story about a sheepman that had a hundred head out on
the range and lost one and left the other ninety-nine unprotected from the coyotes and went
out into the brush looking for the lost one, which is about the brains of the average sheepman;
but it was a pretty book, and little Shelley told me prettily all about the story, and showed
me how his dear pastor had wrote in it for him. He had wrote: "To Shelley Vane Plunkett, who
to the distinction of his name unites a noble and elevated nature." I wonder if Bugs Plunkett
ever looks at that writing now and blushes for his lost angel face? Anyway, I thought this
day that he was the loveliest, purest child in the world, with his delicate beauty and sweet
little voice and perfect manners, all set off by the golden curls.

A couple days later I was going through that same street and when I turned a corner next to
the Plunkett house, here was little Shelley addressing a large red-faced man on the back of
an ice wagon that had stopped there. It was some shock to my first notions of the angel child.
I gathered with no trouble whatever that the party on the ice wagon had so far forgot his own
manners as to call little Shelley a sissy. It was a good three-to-one bet he was now sorry
he spoke. Little Shelley was using language beyond his years and words that had never been
taught him by his lady mother. He handled them words like they was his slaves. Three or four
other parties stopped to listen without seeming to. I have heard much in my time. I have even
been forced to hear Jeff Tuttle pack a mule that preferred not to be packed. And little Shelley
was informing, even to me. He never hesitated for a word and was quick and finished with the
syllables.

The ice-wagon man was peeved, as he had a right to be, and may of been going to talk back,
but when he saw the rest of us getting Shelley he yelled to the man in the front to drive on.
It was too late, quick as he went, to save the fair repute of himself and family, if Shelley's
words was to be took seriously. Shelley had invaded the most sacred relationship and pretended
to bare a hideous scandal. Also the iceman himself couldn't possibly of done half the things
Shelley hotly urged him to do.

Us people that had seemed to linger walked right on, not meeting each other's eye, and Shelley
again become the angel child, turning in at his gate and walking up the path in a decorous
manner with his schoolbooks under his arm. I first wondered if I shouldn't go warn Arline that
her child had picked up some words that would get him nowhere at all with his doting pastor.
Little could the fond woman dream, when she tucked him in after his prayers at night, that
talk such as this could come from his sweet young lips. How much mothers think they know of
their sons and how darned little they do know! But I decided to keep out of it, remembering
that no mother in the world's history had ever thanked a person for anything but praise of
her children.

Still, I couldn't help but worry about Shelley's future, both here and hereafter. But I talked
to other people about it and learned that he was already known as a public character to everyone
but his own dear mother. It was these here curls that got him attacked on every hand by young
and old, and his natural vigour of mind had built him up a line of repartee that was downright
blistering when he had time to stop and recite it all. Even mule skinners would drive blocks
out of their way just to hear little Shelley's words when someone called him sissy or girl-boy.

It seems Shelley never took any of these troubles to his mother, because he was right manly
and he regarded curls as a natural infirmity that couldn't be helped and that his poor ma shouldn't
be blamed for. He'd always had curls, just as other unfortunates had been disfigured or maimed
from birth, so he'd took it as a cross the Lord had give him to bear. And he was willing to
bear it in silence if folks would just let him alone. Otherwise, not. Oh, most surely not!

I kind of kept watch on Shelley's mad career after that. It was mad most of the time. He had
already begun to fight as well as to use language, and by the time he was ten he was a very
nasty scrapper. And ready--it soon got so that only boys new-come to town would taunt him about
his golden locks. And unless they was too much out of Shelley's class he made believers of
'em swiftly. From ten to twelve he must of had at least one good fight a day, what with the
new ones and the old ones that still couldn't believe a boy in velvet pants with curls on his
shoulders could really put it over on 'em. His mother believed his clothes was tore and his
face bunged up now and then in mere boyish sports, and begged him not to engage in such rough
games with his childish playmates. And Shelley, the little man, let her talk on, still believing
he was like little Paul McNamara, that had a crooked foot. He wasn't going to shame his mother
as well as himself.

I don't know just how Shelley ever got his big illumination that curls was not a curse put
on him by his Maker. But he certainly did get it when he was round twelve. After two years
of finish fights he suddenly found out that curls is optional, or a boy's own fault, if not
his mother's, and that they may be cured by a simple and painless operation. He'd come to the
observing age. They say he'd stand in front of Henry Lehman's barber shop every chance he'd
get, watching the happy men getting their hair cut. And he put two and two together.

Then he went straight to his mother and told her all about his wonderful and beautiful discovery.
He was awful joyous about it. He said you only had to go to Mr. Lehman's barber shop with thirty-five
cents, and the kind Mr. Lehman would cut the horrible things off and make him look like other
boys, so please let him have the thirty-five.

Then Shelley got a great shock. It was that his mother wanted him to wear them things to please
her. She burst into tears and said the mere thought of her darling being robbed of his crowning
glory by that nasty old Henry Lehman or any one else was breaking her heart, and how could
he be so cruel as to suggest it?

The poor boy must of been quite a bit puzzled. Here was a way out of something he had thought
was incurable, and now his mother that loved him burst into tears at the thought of it. So
he put it out of his mind. He couldn't hurt his mother, and if cutting off his disgrace was
going to hurt her he'd have to go on wearing it.

Shelley was getting lanky now, with big joints and calf knees showing below his velvet pants;
and he was making great headway, I want to tell you, in what seemed to be his chosen profession
of pugilism. He took to going out of his class, taking on boys two or three years older. I
never had the rare pleasure of seeing him in action, but it was mere lack of enterprise on
my part. Before he found out that curls could be relieved by a barber he had merely took such
fights as come to him. But now he went out of his way looking for 'em, and would start the
action himself.

It got so that boys used to travel in bands--them that had criticized his appearance so he'd
hear it--but he'd lie in wait for stragglers that was left behind by the convoy, and it would
be the same old sad story. You can know what it meant when I tell you that the last year Shelley
went to school they say he could come onto the playground with his long yellow curls floating
in the breeze, and not a word would be heard from the fifty boys that might be there.

And so it went till he was thirteen. One succession of fights and a growing collection of words
that would of give his fond pastor something to think about. Of course word of the fights would
get to Shelley's ma from mothers whose little ones he had ravaged, but she just simply didn't
believe it. You know a woman can really not believe anything she don't wish to. You couldn't
tell that lady that her little boy with the angel face and soft voice would attack another
boy unless the other boy begun it. And if the other boy did begin it it was because he envied
Shelley his glorious curls. Arline was certainly an expert in the male psychology, as they call it.

But at thirteen Shelley was losing a lot of the angel out of his face. His life of battle had
told on him, I guess. But he was still obedient and carried the cross for his mother's sake.
Poor thing! He'd formed the habit of obedience and never once suspicioned that a woman had
no right to impose on him just because she was his mother. Shelley just took to fighting a
little quicker. He wouldn't wait for words always. Sometimes mere looks of disgust would start him.

Then, when he got to near fourteen, still with the beautiful curls, he begun to get a lovely
golden down on his face; and the face hadn't hardly a trace of angel left in it. The horrible
truth was that Shelley not only needed a haircut but a shave. And one day, goaded by certain
taunts, he told his mother this in a suddenly bass voice. It must of startled Arline, having
this roar come out of her child when his little voice had always been sweet and high. So she
burst into some more tears and Shelley asked her forgiveness, and pretty soon she was curling
his hair again. I guess he knew right then it was for the last time on earth, but nothing warned
the mother.

These new taunts that had finally made a man of Shelley was no taunts from boys, which he could
handle easy, but the taunts of heedless girls, who naturally loathed a boy with curls even
more than male humans of any age loathe him; and girls can be a lot tauntier when they start
out to. Well, Shelley couldn't lick girls, and he had reached an age when their taunts cut
into his hide like whiplashes, so he knew right well he had to do something desperate.

Then he went out and run away from the refining influences of his beautiful home. He took to
the hills and landed way up on the north fork of the Kulanche where Liver-eating Johnson has
a sheep ranch. Liver-eating, who is an unsavory character himself, had once heard Shelley address
a small group of critics in front of the post office, and had wanted to adopt him right there.
He still cherished the fondest memories of Shelley's flow of language, so he was tickled to
death to have him drop along and stop, seeing that though but a lad in years he was a man and
brother in speech, even if he did look like a brother that had started out to be a sister and
got mixed.

Liver-eating took him in and fed him and cut his hair with a pair of sheep shears. It was a
more or less rough job, because shearing sheep does not make a man a good human barber by any
means. But Shelley looked at his head in the glass and said it was the most beautiful haircut
in the world. Fussy people might criticize it here and there, but they could never say it hadn't
really been cut.

He was so grateful to Liver-eating that he promised to stay with him always and become a sheep
herder. And he did hide out there several months till his anguished mother found out where
he was. After having every pond dragged and every bit of woods searched for her boy's body
she had believed he'd been carried off by kidnappers on account of his heavenly beauty, and
she'd probably have to give ten thousand dollars for his release. She was still looking for
a letter from these fiends when she learned about his being with Liver-eating Johnson and that
this wretch had committed sacrilege on him.

It was a harsh blow to know that her pet had consorted with such a person, who was not only
a sheepman but had earned his nickname in a way that our best people thought not nice. He'd
gone home one day years ago and found his favourite horse had been took by an Injun. Being
a simple-mannered man of few words, he just said that by sundown to-morrow he would of et the
liver of the Injun that done the stealing. I don't know, personally, what happened, except
that he did come back the next night with his horse. Anyway no one ever begrudged him his title
after that. And here was Shelley Vane Plunkett, who had been carefully raised on fruits and
cereals, taking up with such a nauseous character as a social equal.

Arline had the sheriff out at once for her darling, but Shelley got word and beat it farther.
He finally got to Seattle, where he found various jobs, and kept his mother guessing for three
years. He was afraid she'd make him start the curls again if he come home. But finally, when
he was eighteen, he did come, on her solemn promise to behave. But he was no longer the angel-faced
darling that had left, and he still expected at least one fight a day, though no longer wearing
what would cause fights. He'd formed the habit and just couldn't leave off. A body could hardly
look at him without starting something unpleasant. He was round like a barrel now, and tough
and quick, and when anything did happen to be started he was the one that finished it. Also,
he'd have his hair cut close every five or six days. He always looked like a prisoner that
had started to let it grow about a week before he left the institution. Shelley was taking
no chances, and he used to get a strange, glittering look in his eye when he regarded little
Keats, his baby brother, who was now coming on with golden curls just as beautiful as Shelley's
had ever been. But he done nothing sinister.

In time he might of settled down and become a useful citizen, but right then the war broke
out, so no more citizen stuff for Shelley. It was almost too good to be true that he could
go to a country where fighting was legal; not only that, but they'd give him board and lodging
and a little spending money for doing the only thing he'd ever learned to do well. It sure
looked like heaven. So off he went to Canada and enlisted and got sent across and had three
years of perfect bliss, getting changed over to our Army when we finally got unneutral so you
could tell it.

Of course his mother was almost more anguished about his going to war than about having his
curls fixed with the sheep shears. She said even if he wasn't shot he would be sure to contract
light habits in France, consisting of native wine and dancing, and so forth, and she hoped
at least he could be a drummer boy or something safe.

But Shelley never had a safe moment, I guess. No such thing as a quiet sector where he was.
He fought at the Front, and then he'd fight at hospitals every time he got took back there
for being shot up. He was almost too scrappy even for that war. He was usually too busy to
write, but we got plenteous reports of his adventures from other men, these adventures always
going hard with whatever Germans got in his way. And I bet his mother never dreamed that his
being such a demon fighter was all due to her keeping him in curls so long, where he got the
habit and come to love it for its own sake.

Anyway, he fought and fought and had everything happen to him that German science had discovered
was useful to exterminate the lesser races, and it finally begun to tell on him, hardened as
he was by fighting from the cradle up, as you might say.

It was a glad day for Arline when she got word that he was a broken-down invalid and had landed
at an Atlantic Ocean port on his way home. She got arrowroot gruel and jelly and medicinal
delicacies and cushions, and looked forward to a life of nursing. She hoped that in the years
to come she could coax the glow of health back to his wan cheeks. And I wouldn't put it past
her--mebbe she hoped she could get him to let the golden hair grow again, just long enough
to make him interesting as he lay coughing on his couch.

And Shelley come home, but his idee of being an invalid wasn't anything like his mother's.
He looked stout as a horse, and merely wished to rest up for a couple weeks before getting
some other kind of action suited to his peculiar talents. And worse, he wasn't Shelley Vane
Plunkett--he was Bugs Plunkett; and his mother's heart broke again. He was shaved like a convict
and thicker through than ever, and full of rich outdoor words about what he would do to this
so-and-so medical officer for not letting him back into the scrap. Yes, sir; that man is going
to suffer casualties right up to the limit the minute he gets out of his uniform--and him thinking
the world is at peace once more! Sure, Shelley had been shot through the lungs a couple of
times, and one leg had been considerably altered from the original plan, but he had claimed
he was a better scrapper than ever before and had offered to prove it to this medical officer
right then and there if it could be done quiet. But this fair offer had been rejected.

So here he'd come back, not any kind of a first-class invalid that would be nice to nurse,
but as Bugs Plunkett! No sooner did he get to town than letters and postal cards begun to come
addressed to Mr. Bugs Plunkett or mebbe B. Plunkett, Esquire; and the cards would be from his
old pals in the trenches, many of whom had worse names, even, than Shelley had made for himself.

Also the sick warrior turned down flat the arrowroot gruel and Irish-moss custard and wine
jelly and pale broth. He had to have the same coarse food that is et by common working people
who have had no home advantages, including meat, which is an animal poison and corrupts the
finer instincts of man by reducing him to the level of the brutes. So Arline Plunkett says.
Shelley had it, though, ordering it in a bass voice that made the statuary teeter. Steak was
cooked in the Plunkett home for the first time since it had been erected, notwithstanding the
horrible example it set to little Keats, who still had golden curls as lovely as Shelley's
once had been and was fed on fruits and nuts.

Arline couldn't of had any pleasant time with her wandering boy them three weeks he was there.
She suffered intensely over the ignominy of this mail that came to him by the awful name of
Bugs, with the gossips in the post office telling it everywhere, so that the boys round the
cigar store got to calling him Bugs right out plain. And her son seeming proud of this degradation!

And she couldn't get him to protect himself from drafts by night. He'd insist on having a window
wide open, and when she'd sneak back to close it so he wouldn't catch his death of cold he'd
get up and court destruction by hoisting it again. And once when she'd crept in and shut it
a second time he threw two shoes through the upper and lower parts so it would always be open.
He claimed he done this in his sleep, having got into the habit in the trenches when he'd come
in from a long march and someone would close all the windows. But Arline said that this only
showed that war had made him a rowdy, even in his sleep--and out of the gentlest-mannered boy
that ever wore velvet garments and had a cinch on every prize in the Sunday school; though
she did not use coarse words like that. She told me herself it was time we got this other side
of what war did to gently nurtured youths that had never soiled their lips with an oath in
their lives until they went into war's hell. She said just that!

Also Shelley had contracted the vicious habit of smoking, which was all a body would want to
know about war. She said he'd have his breakfast in bed, including whole slices of ham, which
comes from the most loathsome of all animals, and would then lie and smoke the Lord Byron five-cent
cigar, often burning holes in the covers, which he said was another old trench habit--and that
showed what war done to the untainted human soil. Also while smoking in bed he would tell little
Keats things no innocent child should hear, about how fine it feels to deflate Germans with
a good bayonet. She had never esteemed Lord Byron as a poet, and these cigars, she assures
me, was perfectly dreadful in a refined home, where they could be detected even in the basement.

Little Keats was now thirteen, with big joints and calf knees showing under the velvet pants,
and I guess his curls was all that persuaded his mother to live, what with Shelley having gone
to the bad and made a name for himself like Bugs. But little Keats had fell for his brother,
and spent all the time he could with him listening to unpretty stories of Germans that had
been fixed up proper the way the good Lord meant 'em to be.

After he'd been home a couple weeks or more Shelley begun to notice little Keats more closely.
He looked so much like Shelley had at that age and had the same set-on manner in the house
that Shelley got suspicious he was leading the same double life he had once led himself.

He asked his mother when she was going to take Keats to a barber, and his mother burst into
tears in the old familiar way, so he said no more to her. But that afternoon he took little
Keats out for a stroll and closely watched his manner toward some boys they passed. They went
on downtown and Shelley stepped into the Owl cigar store to get a Lord Byron. When he come
out little Keats was just finishing up a remark to another boy. It had the familiar ring to
Shelley and was piquant and engaging even after three years in the trenches, where talk is
some free. Keats still had the angel face, but had learned surprisingly of old English words.

Then Shelley says to him: "Say, kid, do you like your curls?" And little Keats says very warmly
and almost shedding tears: "They're simply hell!"

"I knew it," says Shelley. "Have many fights?"

"Not so many as I used to," says Keats.

"I knew that, too," says Shelley. "Now, then, you come right along with me."

So he marches Keats and curls down to Henry Lehman's and says: "Give this poor kid a close
haircut."

And Henry Lehman won't do it. He says that Mrs. Plunkett, the time of the scandal about Shelley,
had warned every barber in town that she would have the law on 'em if they ever harmed a hair
on the head of a child of hers; and he was a law-abiding citizen. He didn't deny that the boy
needed a haircut the worst way in the world, but at his time of life he wasn't going to become
an outlaw.

Keats had nearly broke down at this. But Shelley says: "All right; come on over to the other
place."

So they go over to Katterson Lee, the coloured barber, and Katterson tells 'em the same story.
He admits the boy needs a haircut till it amounts to an outrage, but he's had his plain warning
from Shelley's ma, and he ain't going to get mixed up with no lawsuit in a town where he's
known to one and all as being respectable.

Shelley then threatened him with bodily harm if he didn't cut that hair off quick, and Katterson
was right afraid of the returned soldier, that had fixed so many Germans right, but he was
more afraid of the law, so he got down on his knees to Shelley and begged for his life.

Little Keats was now blubbering, thinking he wasn't going to be shut of his disgrace after
all, but Shelley says: "All right, kid; I'll stand by you. I'll do it myself. Get into that chair!"

Of course Katterson couldn't prevent that, so Keats got sunny again and climbed into the chair,
and Shelley grabbed a pair of shears and made a sure-nuff boy of him. He got the curls off
all right, but when it come to trimming up he found he couldn't do a smooth job, and Katterson
wasn't there to give him any hints, having run from his shop at the beginning of the crime
so he would have a good alibi when hauled into court. So Shelley finally took up a pair of
clippers, and having learned to clip mules he soon had little Keats' whole scalp laid bare.
It must of been a glorious sight. They both gloated over it a long time.

Then Keats says: "Now you come with me and we'll show it to mamma!" But Shelley says: "Not
me! I have to draw the line somewhere. I shall be far away from here to-night. I am not afraid
of enemy soldiers, for I've been up against them too often. But there are worse things than
death, so you'll have to face mamma alone. You can tell her I did it, but I will not be there
to hear you. So good-bye and God help you!" And Shelley retired to a position less exposed.

That was an awful day for the Plunkett home, because little Keats, being left to his own resources,
tried to use his brain. First he gathered up the long shining curls and wrapped 'em in a newspaper.
Then he went out and found Artie Bartell, who is a kind of a harmless halfwit that just walks
the streets and will do anything whatever if told, being anxious to please. Keats gives Artie
a dime to take the curls up to his dear mother and tell her that her little boy has been run
over by a freight engine down to the station and these here curls was all that could be saved
of him.

Then he hurries home the back way and watches, and pretty soon he sees some neighbours come
rushing to the house when they hear his mother scream, so then he knows everything is all right.
He waits a minute or two, then marches in with his hat off. His mother actually don't know
him at first, on account of his naked skull, but she soon sees it must be he, little Keats,
and then has hysterics because she thinks the freight engine has clipped him this way. And
of course there was more hysterics when she learned the terrible truth of his brother's infamy.
I guess Shelley had been wise all right to keep off the place at that time, soldier or no soldier.
But that's neither here nor there.

The point is that little Keats may now be saved to a life of usefulness and not be hanged for
murder, thanks to his brother's brave action. Of course Bugs himself is set in his ways, and
will adorn only positions of a certain kind. He's fine here, for instance, just at this time
when I got to hire all kinds that need a firm hand--and Bugs has two.

Sure, it was him took the job of foreman here yesterday. We had quite a little talk about things
when he come. He told me how he released his little brother from shame. He said he wouldn't
of done such a radical thing except that peace is now coming on and the world will no longer
need such fighting devils as curls will make of a boy if let to stay long enough.

"Keats might have turned out even worse than I did," he says, "but if there wasn't going to
be any way where he could do it legally, what was the use? He'd probably sometime have killed
a boy that called him Goldilocks, and then the law might have made it unpleasant for him. I
thought it was only fair to give him a chance to live peaceful. Of course in my own case mamma
acted for the best without knowing it. We needed fighters, and I wouldn't have been anything
at all like a fighter if she hadn't made me wear those curls till my whiskers began to show
above the surface. In fact, I'm pretty sure I was a born coward, but those golden strands took
all that out of me. I had to fight.

"And see what it did for me in the Army. I don't want to talk about myself, but I made a good
average fighter and I would have been there to the last if I'd had my rights. And I simply
owe it all to my dear mother. You might say she made me the man I am. I wouldn't ever have
been tough if she'd cut my hair humanely from six years on. I certainly hope Keats hasn't gone
too long. One of us in a family is enough."

That's the way Bugs talks, and it sounds right sensible. What I say now is, the idee had ought
to be took up by the War Department at Washington, D. C. Let 'em pass a law that one boy out
of, say, twenty-five has got to wear curls till his voice changes. By that time, going round
in this here scenic investiture, as you might say, he will be a demon. In peace times it may
add to our crimes of violence, but look what it will be when another war comes. We'll have
the finest line of shock troops the world has ever produced, fit and anxious to fight, having
led an embittered existence long enough to make it permanent. No line would ever stand against
a charge of them devils. They would be a great national asset and might save the country while
we was getting ready to begin to prepare a couple months after war was declared on us.

Still I don't suppose it will be took up, and I ain't got time to go down and preach it to
Congress personally.

And now let me tell you one thing: I'm going to sleep to-night without a care on my mind for
the first time in a year. This here Bugs unites to the distinction of his name a quick and
handy nature, and my busiest troubles are over.