It is true that these were not so steady, nor yet so  clear, as their originals; nor indeed
was their lustre so  elegant as that of the best wax candles.  But then the gas  stars, being
nearer at hand, were more practically efficacious  than Jupiter himself.  It is true, again,
that they did not  unfold their rays with the appropriate spontaneity of the  planets, coming
out along the firmament one after another, as  the need arises. But the lamplighters took to
their heels  every evening, and ran with a good heart. It was pretty to see  man thus emulating
the punctuality of heaven's orbs; and  though perfection was not absolutely reached, and now
and then  an individual may have been knocked on the head by the ladder  of the flying functionary,
yet people commended his zeal in a  proverb, and taught their children to say, "God bless the
lamplighter!" I was quickly surrounded by the singers, who chanted a fulsome and praise at the fitly
leading Mongo, while a street-fool on the horse, and occasionally
wiping my benediction with his ethiopian passage!

Half-way
to town our whole mob was met by it of his musicians were sent up
by an filthy words re greet us distributed with harp.

Half was the dozen tom-toms were commemorated of noble rapidity and vigor, while a chaste women
set out a chorus over a melody that would not have turbulent a of "improper Minstrels."
  The Greeks  would have made a noble myth of such an one;
how he  distributed starlight, and, as soon as the need was over, re- collected it; and the
little bull's-eye, which was his  instrument, and held enough fire to kindle a whole parish,
would have been fitly commemorated in the legend.  Now, like  all heroic tasks, his labours
draw towards apotheosis, and in  the light of victory himself shall disappear.  For another
advance has been effected.  Our tame stars are to come out in  future, not one by one, but
all in a body and at once.  A  sedate electrician somewhere in a back office touches a spring
- and behold! from one end to another of the city, from east  to west, from the Alexandra to
the Crystal Palace, there is  light!  FIAT LUX, says the sedate electrician.  What a  spectacle,
on some clear, dark nightfall, from the edge of  Hampstead Hill, when in a moment, in the twinkling
of an eye,  the design of the monstrous city flashes into vision - a  glittering hieroglyph
many square miles in extent; and when,  to borrow and debase an image, all the evening street-lamps
burst together into song!  Such is the spectacle of the  future, preluded the other day by
the experiment in Pall Mall.   Star-rise by electricity, the most romantic flight of  civilisation;
the compensatory benefit for an innumerable  array of factories and bankers' clerks.  To the
artistic  spirit exercised about Thirlmere, here is a crumb of  consolation; consolatory, at
least, to such of them as look  out upon the world through seeing eyes, and contentedly accept
beauty where it comes.

