In 1828 she married David Lee Child, Esq., a young and able lawyer, and took up her residence
in Boston.  In 1831-32 both became deeply interested in the subject of slavery, through the
writings and personal influence of William Lloyd Garrison.  Her husband, a member of the Massachusetts
legislature and editor of the Massachusetts Journal, had, at an earlier date, denounced the
project of the dismemberment of Mexico for the purpose of strengthening and extending American
slavery.  He was one of the earliest members of the New England Anti-Slavery Society, and his
outspoken hostility to the peculiar institution greatly and unfavorably affected his interests
as a lawyer.  In 1832 he addressed a series of able letters on slavery and the slave-trade
to Edward S. Abdy, a prominent English philanthropist.  In 1836 he published in Philadelphia
ten strongly written articles on the same subject.  He visited England and France in 1837,
and while in Paris addressed an elaborate memoir to the Societe pour l'Abolition d'Esclavage,
and a paper on the same subject to the editor of the Eclectic Review, in London.  To his facts
and arguments John Quincy Adams was much indebted in the speeches which he delivered in Congress
on the Texas question.

In 1833 the American Anti-Slavery Society was formed by a convention in Philadelphia.  Its
numbers were small, and it was everywhere spoken against.  It was at this time that Lydia Maria
Child startled the country by the publication of her noble Appeal in Behalf of that Class of
Americans called Africans.  It is quite impossible for any one of the present generation to
imagine the popular surprise and indignation which the book called forth, or how entirely its
author cut herself off from the favor and sympathy of a large number of those who had previously
delighted to do her honor.  Social and literary circles, which had been proud of her presence,
closed their doors against her.  The sale of her books, the subscriptions to her magazine,
fell off to a ruinous extent. She knew all she was hazarding, and made the great sacrifice,
prepared for all the consequences which followed.

Thenceforth her life was a battle; a constant rowing hard against the stream of popular prejudice
and hatred.  And through it all--pecuniary privation, loss of friends and position, the painfulness
of being suddenly thrust from "the still air of delightful studies" into the bitterest and
sternest controversy of the age--she bore herself with patience, fortitude, and unshaken reliance
upon the justice and ultimate triumph of the cause she had espoused.  Her pen was never idle.
Wherever there was a brave word to be spoken, her voice was heard, and never without effect.

A practical philanthropist, she had the courage of her convictions, and from the first was
no mere closet moralist or sentimental bewailer of the woes of humanity.  She was the Samaritan
stooping over the wounded Jew. She calmly and unflinchingly took her place by the side, of
the despised slave and free man of color, and in word and act protested against the cruel prejudice
which shut out its victims from the rights and privileges of American citizens.  Her philanthropy
had no taint of fanaticism; throughout the long struggle, in which she was a prominent actor,
she kept her fine sense of humor, good taste, and sensibility to the beautiful in art and nature.

     The opposition she met with from those who had shared her confidence
     and friendship was of course keenly felt, but her kindly and genial
     disposition remained unsoured.  She rarely spoke of her personal
     trials, and never posed as a martyr.  The nearest approach to
     anything like complaint is in the following lines, the date of which
     I have not been able to ascertain:--

               THE WORLD THAT I AM PASSING THROUGH.

               Few in the days of early youth
               Trusted like me in love and truth.
               I've learned sad lessons from the years,
               But slowly, and with many tears;
               For God made me to kindly view
               The world that I am passing through.

               Though kindness and forbearance long
               Must meet ingratitude and wrong,
               I still would bless my fellow-men,
               And trust them though deceived again.
               God help me still to kindly view
               The world that I am passing through.

               From all that fate has brought to me
               I strive to learn humility,
               And trust in Him who rules above,
               Whose universal law is love.
               Thus only can I kindly view
               The world that I am passing through.

               When I approach the setting sun,
               And feel my journey well-nigh done,
               May Earth be veiled in genial light,
               And her last smile to me seem bright.
               Help me till then to kindly view
               The world that I am passing through.

               And all who tempt a trusting heart
               From faith and hope to drift apart,
               May they themselves be spared the pain
               Of losing power to trust again.
               God help us all to kindly view
               The world that we are passing through.

While faithful to the great duty which she felt was laid upon her in an especial manner, she
was by no means a reformer of one idea, but her interest was manifested in every question affecting
the welfare of humanity.  Peace, temperance, education, prison reform, and equality of civil
rights, irrespective of sex, engaged her attention.  Under all the disadvantages of her estrangement
from popular favor, her charming Greek romance of Philothea and her Lives of Madame Roland
and the Baroness de Stael proved that her literary ability had lost nothing of its strength,
and that the hand which penned such terrible rebukes had still kept its delicate touch, and
gracefully yielded to the inspiration of fancy and art.  While engaged with her husband in
the editorial supervision of the Anti-Slavery Standard, she wrote her admirable Letters from
New York; humorous, eloquent, and picturesque, but still humanitarian in tone, which extorted
the praise of even a pro-slavery community.  Her great work, in three octavo volumes, The Progress
of Religious Ideas, belongs, in part, to that period.  It is an attempt to represent in a candid,
unprejudiced manner the rise and progress of the great religions of the world, and their ethical
relations to each other. She availed herself of, and carefully studied, the authorities at
that time accessible, and the result is creditable to her scholarship, industry, and conscientiousness.
If, in her desire to do justice to the religions of Buddha and Mohammed, in which she has been
followed by Maurice, Max Muller, and Dean Stanley, she seems at times to dwell upon the best
and overlook the darker features of those systems, her concluding reflections should vindicate
her from the charge of undervaluing the Christian faith, or of lack of reverent appreciation
of its founder.  In the closing chapter of her work, in which the large charity and broad sympathies
of her nature are manifest, she thus turns with words of love, warm from the heart, to Him
whose Sermon on the Mount includes most that is good and true and vital in the religions and
philosophies of the world:--

"It was reserved for Him to heal the brokenhearted, to preach a gospel to the poor, to say,
'Her sins, which are many, are forgiven, for she loved much.'  Nearly two thousand years have
passed away since these words of love and pity were uttered, yet when I read them my eyes fill
with tears. I thank Thee, O Heavenly Father, for all the messengers thou hast sent to man;
but, above all, I thank Thee for Him, thy beloved Son!  Pure lily blossom of the centuries,
taking root in the lowliest depths, and receiving the light and warmth of heaven in its golden
heart!  All that the pious have felt, all that poets have said, all that artists have done,
with their manifold forms of beauty, to represent the ministry of Jesus, are but feeble expressions
of the great debt we owe Him who is even now curing the lame, restoring sight to the blind,
and raising the dead in that spiritual sense wherein all miracle is true."

During her stay in New York, as editor of the Anti-Slavery Standard, she found a pleasant home
at the residence of the genial philanthropist, Isaac T. Hopper, whose remarkable life she afterwards
wrote.  Her portrayal of this extraordinary man, so brave, so humorous, so tender and faithful
to his convictions of duty, is one of the most readable pieces of biography in English literature.
Thomas Wentworth Higginson, in a discriminating paper published in 1869, speaks of her eight
years' sojourn in New York as the most interesting and satisfactory period of her whole life.
"She was placed where her sympathetic nature found abundant outlet and occupation.  Dwelling
in a house where disinterestedness and noble labor were as daily breath, she had great opportunities.
There was no mere alms-giving; but sin and sorrow must be brought home to the fireside and
the heart; the fugitive slave, the drunkard, the outcast woman, must be the chosen guests of
the abode,-- must be taken, and held, and loved into reformation or hope."

It would be a very imperfect representation of Maria Child which regarded her only from a literary
point of view.  Her pen was busy with correspondence, and whenever a true man or a good cause
needed encouragement, she was prompt to give it.  Her donations for benevolent causes and beneficent
reforms were constant and liberal; and only those who knew her intimately could understand
the cheerful and unintermitted self-denial which alone enabled her to make them.  She did her
work as far as possible out of sight, without noise or pretension.  Her time, talents, and
money were held not as her own, but a trust from the Eternal Father for the benefit of His
suffering children. Her plain, cheap dress was glorified by the generous motive for which she
wore it.  Whether in the crowded city among the sin-sick and starving, or among the poor and
afflicted in the neighborhood of her country home, no story of suffering and need, capable
of alleviation, ever reached her without immediate sympathy and corresponding action.

     "The pole, science tells us, the magnet controls,
     But she is a magnet to emigrant Poles,
     And folks with a mission that nobody knows
     Throng thickly about her as bees round a rose.
     She can fill up the carets in such, make their scope
     Converge to some focus of rational hope,
     And, with sympathies fresh as the morning, their gall
     Can transmute into honey,--but this is not all;
     Not only for those she has solace; O, say,
     Vice's desperate nursling adrift in Broadway,
     Who clingest, with all that is left of thee human,
     To the last slender spar from the wreck of the woman,
     Hast thou not found one shore where those tired, drooping feet
     Could reach firm mother-earth, one full heart on whose beat
     The soothed head in silence reposing could hear
     The chimes of far childhood throb back on the ear?"

