There was an old Martin Roland, who lived near a bog a little out of Gort, who saw them often
from his young days, and always towards the end of his life, though I would hardly call him
their friend. He told me a few months before his death that "they" would not let him sleep
at night with crying things at him in Irish, and with playing their pipes. It was endless, for it
was burning in her heart that instant. At the prospect of wealth, position, and power, Nancy Ellen
could smother her with caresses; but poverty, pain, and disgrace
she had endured alone.

"I shan't let you go till you promise," threatened Nancy Ellen. "When
are you to see him again?"

"Ten,
this morning," said Kate. "You better let me get to bed, or I'll
look a sight."

"Then promise," said Nancy Ellen.

Kate laid firm hands on the encircling arms. "Now, look here," she said, shortly, "it's about
time to stop this nonsense. There's nothing I can promise you.

I must have time to think. I've got not only myself, but the children to think for. And I've
only got till ten o'clock, so I better get at it."

Kate's tone made Nancy Ellen step back.

"Kate, you haven't still got that letter in your mind, have you?"
she demanded.

"No!" laughed Kate, "I haven't! He offered me a thousand dollars if I could pronounce him a word
he couldn't spell; and it's perfectly evident he's studied until he is exactly like anybody else.
No, it's not that!"

"Then what is it? Simpleton, there WAS nothing else!" cried Nancy
Ellen.

"Not so much at that time; but this is nearly twenty years later, and I have the fate of my children
in my hands. I wish you'd go to bed and let me think!" said Kate.

"Yes, and the longer you think the crazier you will act," cried Nancy Ellen. "I know you! You
better promise me now, and stick to it."

For answer Kate turned off the light; but she did not go to bed. She sat beside the window
and she was still sitting there when dawn crept across the lake and began to lighten the room.
Then she stretched herself beside Nancy Ellen, who roused and looked
at her.

"You just coming to bed?" she cried in wonder.

"At least you can't complain that I didn't think," said Kate, but Nancy Ellen found no comfort
in what she said, or the way she said it. In fact, she arose when Kate did, feeling distinctly
sulky. As they returned to their room from breakfast, Kate laid out her hat and gloves and began
to get ready to keep her appointment. Nancy Ellen could endure the
suspense no longer.

"Kate," she said in her gentlest tones, "if you have no mercy on yourself, have some on your
children. You've no right, positively no right, to take such a chance
away from them."

"Chance for what?" asked Kate tersely.

"Education, travel, leisure, every opportunity in the world," enumerated
Nancy Ellen.

Kate was handling her gloves, her forehead wrinkled, her eyes narrowed
in concentration.

"That is one side of it," she said. "The other is that neither my children nor I have in our blood,
breeding, or mental cosmos, the background that it takes to make one happy with money in unlimited quantities.
So far as I'm concerned personally, I'm happier this minute as I
am, than John Jardine's money ever could make me. I had a fierce struggle
with that question long ago; since I have had nearly eight years of
life I love, that is good for my soul, the struggle to leave it would
be greater now. Polly would be happier and get more from life as the
wife of big gangling Henry Peters, than she would as a millionaire's
daughter. She'd be very suitable in a farmhouse parlour; she'd be
a ridiculous little figure at a ball. As for Adam, he'd turn this
down quick and hard."

"Just you try him!" cried Nancy Ellen.

"For
one thing, he won't be here at ten o'clock," said Kate, "and for another,
since it involves my becoming the wife of John Jardine, it isn't for
Adam to decide. This decision is strictly my own. I merely mention
the children, because if I married him, it would have an inevitable
influence on their lives, an influence that I don't in the least covet
either for them or for myself. Nancy Ellen, can't you remotely conceive
of such a thing as one human being in the world who is SATISFIED THAT
HE HAS HIS SHARE, and who believes to the depths of his soul that
no man should be allowed to amass, and to use for his personal indulgence,
the amount of money that John Jardine does?"

"Yes, I can," cried
Nancy Ellen, "when I see you, and the way you act! You have chance
after chance, but you seem to think that life requires of you a steady
job of holding your nose to the grindstone. It was rather stubby to
begin with, go on and grind it clear off your face, if you like."

"All
right," said Kate. "Then I'll tell you definitely that I have no particular
desire to marry anybody; I like my life immensely as I'm living it.
I'm free, independent, and my children are in the element to which
they were born, and where they can live naturally, and spend their
lives helping in the great work of feeding, clothing, and housing
their fellow men. She was round and fresh in the face, and she never was married, and she never
would take any man; and we used to say that the Wee Woman--her being like Betty--was, maybe,
one of their own people that had been took off before she grew to her full height, and for
that she was always following us and warning and foretelling. This time she walks straight
over to where my mother was standing. 'Go over to the Lough this minute!'--ordering her like
that--'Go over to the Lough, and tell Joseph that he must change the foundation of this house
to where I'll show you fornent the thornbush. That is where it is to be built, if he is to
have luck and prosperity, so do what I'm telling ye this minute.' The house was being built
on 'the path' I suppose--the path used by the people of faery in their journeys, and my mother
brings Joseph down and shows him, and he changes the foundations, the way he was bid, but didn't
bring it exactly to where was pointed, and the end of that was, when he come to the house,
his own wife lost her life with an accident that come to a horse that hadn't room to turn right
with a harrow between the bush and the wall. The introduction of the paper on Popular Education,
in what the editor himself calls "a work of elegant amusement like the present," is somewhat
objectionable, and the writer's sentiments will be very unpalatable to a certain party. The
Ridley Coach is a sketch in the style of Miss Mitford, who has contributed only one article,
and that in verse. Mrs. Opie has a slight piece-- The Old Trees and New Houses-- but our prose
selection is, (somewhat abridged)-- THE LADY ANNE CARR, BY THE AUTHOR
OF "MAY YOU LIKE IT."

Have you not sometimes seen, upon the bosom of dark, stagnant waters,
a pure, white water-lily lift up its head, breathing there a fresh
and delicate fragrance, and deriving its existence thence-- yet partaking
in nothing of the loathsome nature of the pool, nor ever sullied by
its close contact with the foul element beneath?

It is an honest simile to say that the gentle Anne Carr resembled
that sweet water-lily.

Sprung from the guilty loves of the favourite Somerset and his beautiful but infamous wife, she
was herself pure and untainted by the dark and criminal dispositions of her parents. Not even a suspicion
of their real character had ever crossed her mind; she knew that they had met with some reverse
of fortune,-- for she had heard her father regret, for her sake,
his altered estate.

She knew this, but nothing more: her father's enemies, who would
gladly have added to his wretchedness, by making his child look upon
him with horror, could not find in their hearts, when they gazed on
her innocent face, to make one so unoffending wretched