WHEN one contemplates the native people of the interior of Alaska in the mass, when, with the
stories told by the old men and old women of the days before they saw the white man in mind,
one reconstructs that primitive life, lacking any of the implements, the conveniences, the
alleviations of civilisation, the chief feeling that arises is a feeling of admiration and respect.

What a hardy people they must have been! How successfully for untold generations did they pit
themselves against the rigour of this most inhospitable climate! With no tool but the stone-axe
and the flint knife, with no weapon but the bow and arrow and spear, with no material for fish
nets but root fibres, or for fish-hooks or needles but bone, and with no means of fire making
save two dry sticks--one wonders at the skill and patient endurance that rendered subsistence
possible at all. And there follows quickly upon such wonder a hot flush of indignation that,
after so conquering their savage environment or accommodating themselves to it, that they not
only held their own but increased throughout the land, they should be threatened with a wanton
extermination now that the resources of civilisation are opened to them, now that tools and
weapons and the knowledge of easier and more comfortable ways of life are available.

The natives of the interior are of two races, the Indian and the Esquimau. The Indian inhabits
the valley of the Yukon down to within three or four hundred miles of its mouth; the Esquimau
occupies the lower reaches of the Yukon and the Kuskokwim and the whole of the rivers that
drain into the Arctic Ocean west and north. These inland Esquimaux are of the same race as
the coast Esquimaux and constitute an interesting people, of whom something has been said in
the account of journeys through their country.

[Sidenote: THE ATHABASCANS]

The Indians of the interior are of one general stock, the Athabascan, as it is called, and
of two main languages derived from a common root but differing as much perhaps as Spanish and
Portuguese. The language of the upper Yukon (and by this term in these pages is meant the upper
American Yukon) is almost identical with the language of the lower Mackenzie, from which region,
doubtless, these people came, and with it have always maintained intercourse. The theory of
the Asiatic origin of the natives of interior Alaska has always seemed fanciful and far-fetched
to the writer. The same translations of the Bible and the Book of Common Prayer serve for the
lower Mackenzie and the upper Yukon and are in active use to-day through all that wide region,
despite minor dialectical variations.

Near the lower ramparts of the Yukon, at Stephen's Village, the language changes and the new
tongue maintains itself, though with continually increasing dialectical differences, until
the Indians overlap the Esquimaux, six hundred miles farther down.

Fort Yukon is the most populous place on the river, and the last place on the river, where
the upper language, or Takhud, is spoken. A stretch of one hundred and fifty miles separates
it from the next native village, and the inhabitants of that village are not intelligible to
the Fort Yukon Indians--an unintelligibility which seems to speak of long ages of little intercourse.

       *       *       *       *       *

The history of the migrations of the Indians from the Athabascan or Mackenzie region is impossible
to trace now. It is highly probable that the movement was by way of the Porcupine River. And
it would seem that there must have been two distinct migrations: one that passed down the Yukon
to the Tanana district and spread thence up the Tanana River and up the Koyukuk; and long after,
as one supposes, a migration that peopled the upper Yukon. A portion of this last migration
must have gone across country to the Ketchumstock and the upper Tanana, for the inhabitants
of the upper Tanana do not speak the Tanana tongue, which is the tongue of the Middle Yukon
but a variant of the tongue of the upper Yukon.

How long ago these migrations took place there is not the slightest knowledge to base even
a surmise upon. The natives themselves have no records nor even traditions, and the first point
of contact between white men and the natives of the interior is within three quarters of a
century ago. It may have been two or three families only which penetrated to this region or
to that and settled there, and what pressure started them on their wanderings no one will ever
know. Perhaps some venturesome hunter pursuing his game across the highlands that separate
the Mackenzie from the Yukon was disabled and compelled to remain until the summer, and then
discovered the salmon that made their way up the tributaries of the Porcupine. The Mackenzie
has no salmon. Or a local tribal quarrel may have sent fugitives over the divide.

When first the white man came to the upper Yukon, in 1846 and 1847, no one knew that it was
the same river at the mouth of which the Russians had built Redoubt Saint Michael ten or twelve
years before. The natives of the upper river knew nothing about the lower river. It is an easy
matter to float down the Yukon for a thousand miles in a birch-bark canoe, but an exceedingly
difficult matter to come up again. It was not until the voyageurs of the Hudson Bay Company,
in their adventurous fur-trading expeditions, met at the mouth of the Tanana River the agents
of the Russian Fur Company, come up from Nulato on the same quest, that the identity of the
Yukon and Kwikpak Rivers was discovered; and that seems to have been well past the middle of
the century. In the map of North America that the writer first used at school, the Yukon flowed
north into the Arctic Ocean, parallel with the Mackenzie.

[Sidenote: AN INOFFENSIVE PEOPLE]

The Indians of the interior of Alaska are a gentle and kindly and tractable people. They have
old traditions of bloody tribal warfare that have grown in ferocity, one supposes, with the
lapse of time, for it is very difficult for one who knows them to believe that so mild a race
could ever have been pugnacious or bloodthirsty. Whether it were that the exigencies of subsistence
under arctic conditions demanded almost all their energies, or that a realisation of their
constant dependence upon one another checked the play of passion, they differ most widely and,
it seems certain, always differed most widely in character from the Indians of the American
plains. A personal knowledge of the greater part of all the natives of interior Alaska, gained
by living amongst them and travelling from village to village during seven or eight years,
furnishes but a single instance of an Indian man guilty of any sort of violence against another
Indian or against a white man--except under the influence of liquor.

It is true that there are unquestioned murders that have been committed--murders of white men
at that; but in the sixty years from the Nulato massacre of 1851, over the whole vast interior,
these crimes can be counted on the fingers of one hand. They are not a revengeful people. They
do not cherish the memory of injuries and await opportunities of repayment; that trait is foreign
to their character. On the contrary, they are exceedingly placable and bear no malice. Moreover,
they are very submissive, even to the point of being imposed upon. In fact, they are decidedly
a timid people in the matter of personal encounter. In all these characteristics they differ
from the North American Indian generally as he appears in history.

They are capable of hard work, though apparently not of continuous hard work; they will cheerfully
support great privation and fatigue; but when the immediate necessity is past they enjoy long
periods of feasting and leisure. Having no property nor desire of property, save their clothes,
their implements and weapons, and the rude furnishings of their cabins, there is no incentive
to hard and continuous work.

After all, where is the high and peculiar virtue that lies in the performance of continuous
hard work? Why should any one labour incessantly? This is the question the Indian would ask,
and one is not always sure that the mills of Massachusetts and the coal-mines of Pennsylvania
return an entirely satisfactory answer. As regards thrift, the Indian knows little of it; but
the average white man of the country does not know much more. There is little difference as
regards thrift between wasting one's substance in a "potlatch," which is a feast for all comers,
and wasting it in drunkenness, which is a feast for the liquor sellers, save that one is barbarous
and the other civilised, as the terms go.

It would seem that the general timidity of the native character is the reason for a very general
untruthfulness, though there one must speak with qualification and exception. There are Indians
whose word may be taken as unhesitatingly as the word of any white man, and there are white
men in the country whose word carries no more assurance than the word of any Indian. The Indian
is prone to evasion and quibbling rather than to downright lying, though there are many who
are utterly unreliable and untrustworthy.

[Sidenote: SEXUAL MORALITY]

In the matter of sexual morality the Indian standards are very low, though certainly not any
lower than the standards of the average white man in the country. One is forced to this constant
comparison; the white man in the country is the only white man the Indian knows anything about.
To the Indian a physical act is merely a physical act; all down his generations there has been
no moral connotation therewith, and it is hard to change the point of view of ages when it
affects personal indulgence so profoundly. The white man has been taught, down as many ages,
perhaps, that these physical acts have moral connotation and are illicit when divorced therefrom,
yet he is as careless and immoral in this country as the Indian is careless and unmoral. And
the white man's careless and immoral conduct is the chief obstacle which those who would engraft
upon the Indian the moral consciousness must contend against.

The Indian woman is not chaste because the Indian man does not demand chastity of her, does
not set any special value upon her chastity as such. And the example of the chastity which
the white man demands of his women, though he be not chaste himself, is an example with which
the native of Alaska has not come much into contact. Too often, in the vicinity of mining camps,
the white women who are most in evidence are of another class.

[Sidenote: GOVERNMENT SCHOOLS]

The Indian is commonly intelligent and teachable, and in most cases eager to learn and eager
that his children may learn. Here it becomes necessary to deal with a difficult and somewhat
contentious matter that one would rather let alone. The government has undertaken the education
of the Indian, and has set up a bureau charged with the establishment and conduct of native
schools.

There are five such schools on the Yukon between Eagle and Tanana, including these two points,
amongst Indians all of whom belong to the Episcopal Church, and five more between Tanana and
Anvik, amongst natives divided in allegiance between the Episcopal and the Roman Catholic Churches.
Below Anvik to the river's mouth the natives are divided between the Roman and the Greek Churches,
and they are outside the scope of this book. On the tributaries of the Yukon the only native
schools are conducted by the missions of the Episcopal Church, on the Koyukuk and Tanana Rivers,
and have no connection with the government.

When, somewhat late in the day, the government set its hand to the education of the natives,
mission schools had been conducted for many years at the five stations of the Episcopal Church
above Tanana and at the various mission stations below that point. The Bureau of Education
professed its earnest purpose of working in harmony with the mission authorities, and upon
this profession it secured deeds of gift for government school sites within the mission reservations
from the Bishop of Alaska.

It cannot be stated, upon a survey of the last five or six years, that this profession has
been carried out. The administration of the Bureau of Education has shared too much the common
fault of other departments of the government in a detached and lofty, not to say supercilious,
attitude. Things are not necessarily right because a government bureau orders them, nor are
government officials invested with superior wisdom merely by reason of their connection with
Washington. It is just as important for a government school as for a mission school to be in
harmony with its environment, to adapt itself to the needs of the people it designs to serve;
and that harmony and adaptation may only be secured by a single-minded study of the situation
and of the habits and character, the occupations and resources of the people.

To keep a school in session when the population of a village is gone on its necessary occasions
of hunting or trapping, and to have the annual recess when all the population is returned again,
is folly, whoever orders it, in accord with what time-honoured routine soever, and this has
not infrequently been done. Moreover, it is folly to fail to recognise that the apprenticeship
of an Indian boy to the arts by which he must make a living, the arts of hunting and trapping,
is more important than schooling, however important the latter may be, and that any talk--and
there has been loud talk--of a compulsory education law which shall compel such boys to be
in school at times when they should be off in the wilds with their parents, is worse than mere
folly, and would, if carried out, be a fatal blunder. If such boys grow up incompetent to make
a living out of the surrounding wilderness, whence shall their living come?

The next step would be the issuing of rations, and that would mean the ultimate degradation
and extinction of the natives. When the question is stated in its baldest terms, is the writer
perverse and barbarous and uncivilised if he avow his belief that a race of hardy, peaceful,
independent, self-supporting illiterates is of more value and worthy of more respect than a
race of literate paupers? Be it remembered also that many of these "illiterates" can read the
Bible in their own tongue and can make written communication with one another in the same--very
scornful as the officials of the bureau have been about such attainment. One grows a little
impatient sometimes when a high official at Washington writes in response to a request for
permission to use a school building after school hours, for a class of instruction in the native
Bible, that the law requires that all instruction in the school be in the English language,
and that it is against the policy of Congress to use public money for religious instruction!
When the thermometer drops to 50° below zero and stays there for a couple of weeks, it is an
expensive matter to heat a church for a Bible class three times a week--and the schoolhouse
is already cosy and warm.

But the question does not reduce itself to the bald terms referred to above; by proper advantage
of times and seasons the Indian boy may have all the English education that will be of any
service to him, and may yet serve his apprenticeship in the indispensable wilderness arts.
And, given a kindly and competent teacher, there is no need of any sort of compulsion to bring
Indian boys and girls to school when they are within reach of it.

The Indian school problem is not an easy one in the sense that it can be solved by issuing
rules and regulations at Washington, but it can be solved by sympathetic study and by the careful
selection of intelligent, cultured teachers.

After all, this last is the most important requisite. Too often it is assumed that any one
can teach ignorant youth: and women with no culture at all, or with none beyond the bald "pedagogy"
of a low-grade schoolroom, have been sent to Alaska. There have, indeed, been notable exceptions;
there have been some very valuable and capable teachers, and with such there has never been
friction at the missions, but glad co-operation.

The situation shows signs of improvement; there are signs of withdrawal from its detached and
supercilious attitude on the part of the bureau, signs which are very welcome to those connected
with the missions. For the best interest of the native demands that the two agencies at work
for his good work heartily and sympathetically together. The missions can do without the government--did
do without it for many years, though glad of the government's aid in carrying the burden of
the schools--but the government cannot do without the missions; and if the missions were forced
to the re-establishment of their own schools, there would be empty benches in the schools of
the government.

[Sidenote: THE THREAT OF EXTINCTION]

That the Indian race of interior Alaska is threatened with extinction, there is unhappily little
room to doubt; and that the threat may be averted is the hope and labour of the missionaries
amongst them. At most places where vital statistics are kept the death-rate exceeds the birth-rate,
though it is sometimes very difficult to secure accurate statistics and to be sure that they
always cover the same ground. The natives wander; within certain territorial limits they wander
widely. Whenever a child is born it is certain that if it lives long enough it will be brought
to a mission to be baptized, but a death often occurs at some isolated camp that is not reported
till long after, and may escape registration altogether.

Certain diseases that have played havoc in the past are not much feared now. For the last seven
years supplies of the diphtheritic antitoxin have been kept at all the missions of the Episcopal
Church, and in the summer of 1911, when there was an outbreak of smallpox at Porcupine River,
almost every Indian of interior Alaska was vaccinated, mainly by the mission staffs. Diphtheria
has been a dreadful scourge. The valley of the upper Kuskokwim was almost depopulated by it
in 1906. A disease resembling measles took half the population of the lower Yukon villages
in 1900. In the last few years there have been no serious epidemics; but epidemic disease does
not constitute the chief danger that threatens the native.

[Sidenote: DWELLING AND CLOTHING]

That chief danger looms from two things: tuberculosis and whisky. Whether tuberculosis is a
disease indigenous to these parts, or whether it was introduced with the white man, has been
disputed and would be difficult of determination. Probably it was always present amongst the
natives; the old ones declare that it was; but the changed conditions of their lives have certainly
much aggravated it. They lived much more in the open when they had no tree-felling tool but
a stone-axe and did not build cabins. The winter residence in those days was, it is true, a
dark, half-underground hut covered with earth and poles, but the time of residence therein
was much shorter; the skin tent sheltered them most of the year. Indeed, some tribes, such
as the Chandalar, lived in their skin tents the year round. Now an ill-ventilated and very
commonly overcrowded cabin shelters them most of the year. It is true that the cabins are constantly
improving and the standard of living within them is constantly rising. The process is slow,
despite all urgings and warnings, and overcrowding and lack of ventilation still prevail.

Perhaps as great a cause of the spread of tuberculosis is the change in clothing. The original
native was clad in skins, which are the warmest clothing in the world. Moose hide or caribou
hide garments, tanned and smoked, are impervious to the wind, and a parkee of muskrat or squirrel,
or, as was not uncommon in the old days, of marten, or one of caribou tanned with the hair
on, with boots of this last material, give all the warmth that exposure to the coldest weather
requires. Nowadays fur garments of any sort are not usual amongst the natives. There is a market,
at an ever-growing price, for all the furs they can procure. A law has, indeed, gone recently
into effect prohibiting the sale of beaver for a term of years, and already beaver coats and
caps begin to appear again amongst the people. It would be an excellent, wise thing, worthy
of a government that takes a fatherly interest in very childlike folks, to make this law permanent.
If it were fit to prohibit the sale of beaver pelts for a term of years to protect the beaver,
surely it would be proper to perpetuate the enactment to protect the Indian. It would mean
warm clothing for man, woman, and child.

[Sidenote: THE INDIAN TRADER]

The Indian usually sells all his furs and then turns round and buys manufactured clothing from
the trader at a fancy price. That clothing is almost always cotton and shoddy. Genuine woollens
are not to be found in the Indian trader's stock at all, and in whatever guise it may masquerade,
and by whatever alias it may pass, the native wear is cotton. Yet there is no country in the
world where it is more imperative, for the preservation of health, that wool be worn.

However much fur the Indian may catch and sell, he is always poor. He is paid in trade, not
in cash; and when the merchant has bought the Indian's catch of fur he straightway spreads
out before him an alluring display of goods specially manufactured for native trade. Here are
brilliant cotton velvets and sateens and tinselled muslins and gay ribbons that take the eye
of his women folk; here are trays of Brummagem knickknacks, brass watches, and rings set with
coloured glass, gorgeous celluloid hair combs, mirrors with elaborate, gilded frames, and brass
lamps with "hand-painted" shades and dangling lustres; here are German accordions and mouth-organs
and all sorts of pocket-knives and alarm-clocks--the greatest collection of glittering and
noisy trash that can be imagined, bought at so much a dozen and retailed, usually, at about
the same price for one. And when the Indian has done his trading the trader has most of his
money back again.

The news that an Indian has caught a black fox, the most exciting item of news that ever flies
around a native village, does not give any great pleasure to one who is acquainted with native
conditions, because he knows that it will bring little real benefit to the Indian. There will
be keen competition, within limits, of course, amongst the traders for it; and the fortunate
trapper may get three or four hundred dollars in trade for a skin that will fetch eight hundred
or a thousand in cash on the London market; but if his wife get the solid advantage of a new
cooking-stove or a sewing-machine from it she is doing well.

Food the Indian never buys much beyond his present need, unless it is to squander it in feast
after feast, to which every one is invited and at which there is the greatest lavishness. If
a son is born, or a black fox is caught, or a member of the family recovers from a severe illness,
custom permits, if it do not actually demand, that a "potlatch" be given, and most Indians
are eager, whenever they are able, to be the heroes of the prandial hour.

So he, his women, and his children go clad mainly in cotton, and there is abundant evidence
that the tendency to pulmonary trouble, always latent amongst them, is developed by the severe
colds which they catch through the inadequate covering of their bodies, and is then cherished
into virulent activity by the close atmosphere of overcrowded, overheated cabins.

The missions help the Indians, especially the women and children, in this matter of clothing
as much as possible. Every year large bales of good though left-off under and over wear are
secured through church organisations outside, and are traded to the natives at nominal prices,
usually for fish or game or a little labour in sawing wood. And this naturally does not ingratiate
missions with the trading class. One's anger is aroused sometimes at seeing the cotton-flannel
underclothes and "cotton-filled" blankets and the "all-wool" cotton coats and trousers which
they pay high prices for at the stores. The Canadian Indians, who are their neighbours, buy
genuine Hudson Bay blankets and other real woollen goods, but the Alaskan Indian can buy nothing
but cotton.

But far and away beyond any other cause of the native decline stands the curse of the country,
whisky. Recognising by its long Indian experience the consequences of forming liquor-drinking
habits amongst the natives, the government has forbidden under penalty the giving or selling
of any intoxicants to them. A few years ago a new law passed making such giving or selling
a felony. These laws are largely a dead letter.

[Sidenote: UNPAID COMMISSIONERS]

The country is a very large one, very sparsely populated; the distances are enormous, the means
of transportation entirely primitive, and the police and legal machinery insufficient to the
end of suppressing this illicit traffic, especially in view of the fact that a considerable
part of the whole population does not look with favour upon any vigorous attempt to suppress
it. Great areas of the country are without telegraphic communication, and in parts mail is
received only once a month. One stretch of two hundred and fifty miles of the Yukon receives
no mail at all during the winter months--more than half the year. In that instance, as in many
others, the country has gone distinctly backward in the past few years. The magistrates--"commissioners"
they are called, receive no salary, but eke out a precarious and often wretched existence on
fees, so that it is frequently impossible to get men of character and capacity to accept such
offices.

One would have supposed that amongst all the legislating that has been done for and about Alaska
in the last year or two, one crying evil that the attention of successive administrations has
been called to for twenty years past would have been remedied. That evil is the unpaid magistrate
and the vicious fee system by which he must make a living. It is a system that has been abolished
in nearly all civilised countries; a system that lends itself to all sorts of petty abuse;
a system that no one pretends to defend. No greater single step in advance could be made in
the government of Alaska, no measure could be enacted that would tend to bring about in greater
degree respect for the law than the abolition of the unpaid magistracy and the setting up of
a body of stipendiaries of character and ability.

The anomalies of the present situation are in some cases amusing. At one place on the Yukon
it is only possible for a man to make a living as United States commissioner if he can combine
the office of postmaster with it. A man who was removed as commissioner still retained the
post-office, and no one could be found to accept the vacant judgeship. In another precinct
the commissioner was moving all those whom he thought had influence to get him appointed deputy
marshal instead of commissioner, because the deputy marshal gets a salary of two thousand dollars
a year and allowances, which was more than the commissionership yielded. One is reminded of
some comic-opera topsyturvyism when the judge tries in vain to get off the bench and be appointed
constable. It sounds like the Bab Ballads. The district court is compelled to wink at irregularities
of life and conduct in its commissioners because it cannot get men of a higher stamp to accept
its appointments.

[Sidenote: LIQUOR AND POLITICS]

The only policemen are deputy United States marshals, primarily process-servers and not at
all fitted in the majority of cases for any sort of detective work. Their appointment is often
dictated and their action often hampered by political considerations. The liquor interest is
very strong and knows how to bring pressure to bear against a marshal who is offensively active.
They are responsible only to the United States marshal of their district, and he is responsible
to the attorney-general, the head of the department of justice. But Washington is a long way
off, and the attorney-general is a very busy man, not without his own interest, moreover, in
politics. An attempt to get some notice taken of a particular case in which it was the general
opinion that an energetic and vigilant deputy had been removed, and an elderly lethargic man
substituted, because of too great activity in the prosecution of liquor cases, resulted in
the conviction that what should have been a matter of administrative righteousness only was
a political matter as well.

The threatened extinction of the Alaskan native was referred to as wanton, and the term was
used in the sense that there are no necessary natural causes fighting against his survival.

Here is no economic pressure of white settlers determined to occupy the land, such as drove
the Indians of the plains farther and farther west until there was no more west to be driven
to. If such delusion possess any mind as a result of foolish newspaper and magazine writings,
let it be dismissed at once. No man who has lived in the country and travelled in the country
will countenance such notion. The white men in Alaska are miners and prospectors, trappers
and traders, wood-choppers and steamboat men. Around a mining camp will be found a few truck-farmers;
alongside road-houses and wood camps will often be found flourishing vegetable gardens, but
outside of such agriculture there are, speaking broadly, no farmers at all in the interior
of Alaska. Probably a majority of all the homesteads that have been taken up have been located
that the trees on them might be cut down and hauled to town to be sold for fire-wood. A few
miles away from the towns there are no homesteads, except perhaps on a well-travelled trail
where a man has homesteaded a road-house.

All the settlements in the country are on the rivers, save the purely mining settlements that
die and are abandoned as the placers play out. Yet one will travel two hundred and fifty miles
up the Porcupine--till Canada is reached--and pass not more than three white men's cabins,
all of them trappers; one will travel three hundred and fifty miles up the Koyukuk before the
first white man's cabin is reached, and as many miles up the Innoko and the Iditarod and find
no white men save wood-choppers. There are a few more white men on the Tanana than on any other
tributary of the Yukon, because Fairbanks is on that river and there is more steamboat traffic,
but they are mainly wood-choppers, while on the lesser tributaries of the Yukon, it is safe
to say, there are no settled white men at all. As soon as one leaves the rivers and starts
across country one is in the uninhabited wilderness.

The writer is no prophet; he cannot tell what may happen agriculturally in Alaska or the rest
of the arctic regions when the world outside is filled up and all unfrozen lands are under
cultivation. Still less is he one who would belittle a country he has learned to love or detract
in any way from its due claims to the attention of mankind. There is in the territory a false
newspaper sentiment that every one who lives in the land should be continually singing extravagant
praises of it and continually making extravagant claims for it. A man may love Alaska because
he believes it to have "vast agricultural possibilities," because, in his visions, he sees
its barren wilds transformed into "waving fields of golden grain." But a man may also love
it who regards all such visions as delusions.

[Sidenote: FOOD AND FURS]

The game and the fish of Alaska, the natural subsistence of the Indian, are virtually undiminished.
Vast herds of caribou still wander on the hills, and far more are killed every year by wolves
than by men. Great numbers of moose still roam the lowlands. The rivers still teem with salmon
and grayling and the lakes with whitefish, ling, and lush. Unless the outrage of canneries
should be permitted at the mouths of the Yukon--and that would threaten the chief subsistence
of all the Indians of the interior--there seems no danger of permanent failure of the salmon
run, though, of course, it varies greatly from year to year. Furs, though they diminish in
number, continually rise in price. There are localities, it is true, where the game has been
largely killed off and the furs trapped out; the Koyukuk country is one of them, though perhaps
that region never was a very good game country. In this region, when a few years ago there
was a partial failure of the salmon, there was distress amongst the Indians. But the country
on the whole is almost as good an Indian country as ever it was, and there are few signs that
it tends otherwise, though things happen so quickly and changes come with so little warning
in Alaska that one does not like to be too confident.

The Indian is the only settled inhabitant of interior Alaska to-day; for the prospectors and
miners, who constitute the bulk of the white population, are not often very long in one place.
Many of them might rightly be classed as permanent, but very few as settled inhabitants. It
is the commonest thing to meet men a thousand miles away from the place where one met them
last. A new "strike" will draw men from every mining camp in Alaska. A big strike will shift
the centre of gravity of the whole white population in a few months. Indeed, a certain restless
belief in the superior opportunities of some other spot is one of the characteristics of the
prospector. The tide of white men that has flowed into an Indian neighbourhood gradually ebbs
away and leaves the Indian behind with new habits, with new desires, with new diseases, with
new vices, and with a varied assortment of illegitimate half-breed children to support. The
Indian remains, usually in diminished numbers, with impaired character, with lowered physique,
with the tag-ends of the white man's blackguardism as his chief acquirement in English--but
he remains.

It is unquestionable that the best natives in the country are those that have had the least
intimacy with the white man, and it follows that the most hopeful and promising mission stations
are those far up the tributary streams, away from mining camps and off the routes of travel,
difficult of access, winter or summer, never seen by tourists at all; seen only of those who
seek them with cost and trouble. At such stations the improvement of the Indian is manifest
and the population increases. By reason of their remoteness they are very expensive to equip
and maintain, but they are well worth while. One such has been described on the Koyukuk; another,
at this writing, is establishing with equal promise at the Tanana Crossing, one of the most
difficult points to reach in all interior Alaska.

This chapter must not close without a few words about the native children. Dirty, of course,
they almost always are; children in a state of nature will always be dirty, and even those
farthest removed from that state show a marked tendency to revert to it; but when one has become
sufficiently used to their dirt to be able to ignore it, they are very attractive. Intolerance
of dirt is largely an acquired habit anyway. In view of their indulgent rearing, for Indian
parents are perhaps the most indulgent in the world, they are singularly docile; they have
an affectionate disposition and are quick and eager to learn. Many of them are very pretty,
with a soft beauty of complexion and a delicate moulding of feature that are lost as they grow
older. It takes some time to overcome their shyness and win their confidence, but when friendly
relations have been established one grows very fond of them. Foregathering with them again
is distinctly something to look forward to upon the return to a mission, and to see them come
running, to have them press around, thrusting their little hands into one's own or hanging
to one's coat, is a delight that compensates for much disappointment with the grown ups. In
the midst of such a crowd of healthy, vivacious youngsters, clear-eyed, clean-limbed, and eager,
one positively refuses to be hopeless about the race.

CHAPTER XII

PHOTOGRAPHY IN THE ARCTIC

THERE is no country in which an anastigmatic lens is of more use to the photographer than Alaska,
and every camera with which it is hoped to take winter scenes should have this equipment. During
two or three months in the year it makes the difference in practice between getting photographs
and getting none. In theory one may always set up a tripod and increase length of exposure
as light diminishes. But the most interesting scenes, the most attractive effects often present
themselves under the severest conditions of weather, and he must be an enthusiast, indeed,
who will get his tripod from the sled, pull out its telescoped tubes, set it up and adjust
it for a picture with the thermometer at 40° or 50° below zero; and when he is done he is very
likely to be a frozen enthusiast.

With an anastigmatic lens working at, say f. 6-3, and with a "speed" film (glass plates are
utterly out of the question on the trail), it is possible to make a snap-shot at one twenty-fifth
of a second on a clear day, around noon, even in the dead of winter, in any part of Alaska
that the writer has travelled in. There are those who write that they can always hold a camera
still enough to get a sharp negative at even one tenth of a second. Probably the personal equation
counts largely in such a matter, and a man of very decided phlegmatic temperament may have
advantage over his more sanguine and nervous brother. The thing may be done; the writer has
done it himself; but the point is it cannot be depended on; at this speed three out of four
of his exposures will be blurred, whereas at one twenty-fifth of a second a sharp, clear negative
may always be secured.

