THE JAPANESE TWINS. Grade IV.
  THE IRISH TWINS. THE RABBIT AND THE GAMEKEEPER
  III. THE SABBATH
   IV. THE NEW BOY
    V. EVENING IN THE WEE BIT HOOSIE
   VI. TWO DISCOVERIES
  VII. THE CLAN
 VIII. THE POACHERS
   IX. A RAINY DAY
    X. ON THE TRAIL
   XI. ANGUS NIEL AND THE CANNY CLAN
  XII. NEWS
 XIII. THE NEW LAIRD

GLOSSARY

SUGGESTIONS TO TEACHERS

THE SCOTCH TWINS

I. THE LITTLE GRAY HOUSE ON THE BRAE

If you had peeped in at the window of a little gray house on a heathery hillside in the Highlands
of Scotland one Saturday morning in May some years ago, you might have seen Jean Campbell "redding
up" her kitchen. It was a sight best seen from a safe distance, for, though Jean was only twelve
years old, she was a fierce little housekeeper every day in the week, and on Saturday, when
she was getting ready for the Sabbath, it was a bold person indeed who would venture to put
himself in the path of her broom. To be sure, there was no one in the family to take such a
risk except her twin brother Jock, her father, Robin Campbell, the Shepherd of Glen Easig,
and True Tammas, the dog, for the Twins' mother had "slippit awa'" when they were only ten
years old, leaving Jean to take a woman's care of her father and brother and the little gray
house on the brae.

On this May morning Jean woke up at five o'clock and peeped out of the closet bed in which
she slept to take a look at the day. The sun had already risen over the rocky crest of gray
old Ben Vane, the mountain back of the house, and was pouring a stream of golden sunlight through
the eastern windows of the kitchen. The kettle was singing over the fire in the open fireplace,
a pan of skimmed milk for the calf was warming by the hearth, and her father was just going
out, with the pail on his arm, to milk the cow. She looked across the room at the bed in the
corner by the fireplace to see if Jock were still asleep. All she could see of him was a shock
of sandy hair, two eyes tight shut, and a freckled nose half buried in the bed-clothes.

"Wake up, you lazy laddie," she called out to him, "or when I get my clothes on I'll waken
you with a wet cloth! Here's the sun looking in at the windows to shame you, and Father already
gone to the milking."

Jock opened one sleepy blue eye.

"Leave us alone, now, Jeanie," he wheedled. "I was just having a sonsie wee bit of a dream.
Let me finish, and syne I'll tell you all about it."

"Indeed, and you'll do nothing of the kind" retorted Jean, with spirit. "Up with you, mannie,
or I'll be dressed before you, and I ken very well you'd not like to be beaten by a lassie,
and her your own sister, too."

Jock cuddled down farther into the blankets without answering, and Jean began putting on her
clothes. It seemed but a moment before she slid to the floor, rolled her sleeves high above
a pair of sturdy elbows, and went to finish her toilet at the basin. There she washed her face
and combed her hair, while Jock, cautiously opening one eye again, observed her from his safe
retreat. He watched her part her hair, wet it, plaster it severely back from her brow, and
tie it firmly in place with a piece of black ribbon. Jock could read Jean's face like print,
and in this stern toilet he foresaw a day of unrelenting house-cleaning.

"Aye," he said to himself bitterly, "she's putting on her Saturday face. There's trouble brewing,
I doubt! It'll be Jock this and Jock that both but and ben all day long, and whatever is the
use of all this tirley-wirly I can't see, when on Monday the house will look as if it had never
seen the sight of a besom! I'll just bide where I am." He closed his eyes and pretended to
be asleep.

It is true that Jean's Saturday face had such a housekeepery pucker between the eyes and such
a severe arrangement of the front hair that any one who did not peep behind the black ribbon
might have thought her a very stern young person indeed, but behind the black ribbon Jean's
true character stood revealed! However prim and smooth she might make it look in front, where
the cracked glass enabled her to keep an eye on it, behind her back, where she couldn't possibly
see it, her hair broke into the jolliest little waves and curls, which bobbed merrily about
even on the worst Saturday that ever was; and spoiled the effect whenever she tried to be severe.

When she had given a final wipe with the brush, she took another look at Jock. There was still
nothing to be seen of him but the shock of sandy hair and a series of bumps under the blanket.
Jock could feel Jean looking at him right through the bed-clothes.

"Jock," said Jean,--and her voice had a Saturday sound to it,--"You can't sleep in this day!
Get up!"

There was no answer. Jock might well have known that Jean was in no mood for trifling, but,
having decided on his course of action, he stuck to it like a true Scotchman and neither moved
nor opened his eyes. Jean was driven to desperate measures. She took a few drops of water in
the dipper, marched firmly to the bedside, and stood with it poised directly above Jock's nose.

"Jock," she said solemnly, "I'm telling you! Don't ever say I didn't. If you don't stir yourself
before I count five, you'll be sorry. One, two, three!" Still no move from Jock. "Four, five,"
and, without further parley, she emptied the dipper on his freckled nose.

There was a wrathful snort and a violent convulsion of the blankets, and an instant later Jock
was tearing about the kitchen like a cat in a fit, but by this time Jean was out of doors and
well beyond reach.

"Come here, you limmer!" he howled. But Jean knew better than to accept his invitation. Instead
she skipped laughing down the path from the door to the brook which ran bubbling and gurgling
by the house. Even in her hasty exit from the cottage, Jean had had the presence of mind to
take the pail with her, and now she stopped to fill it from the clear, sparkling water of the
burn. It was such a wonderful bright spring morning that, having filled it, she stopped for
a moment to look about her at the dear familiar surroundings of her home.

There was the little gray house itself, with the peat smoke curling from the chimney straight
up into the blue sky. Back of it was the garden-patch with its low stone wall, and back of
that were the fowl-yard and the straw-covered byre for the cow. Beyond, and to the north lay
the moors, covered with heather and dotted with grazing sheep. Jean could hear the tinkle of
their bells, the bleating of the lambs, and the comforting maternal answers of the ewes. Above
the dark forest which spread itself over the slopes of the foot-hills toward the south and
east a lave rock was singing, and she could hear the cry of whaups wheeling and circling over
the moors. They were pleasant morning sounds, dear and familiar to Jean's ear, and oh, the
sparkle of the dew on the bracken, and the smell of the hawthorn by the garden wall! Jean lifted
her pail of water and went singing with it up the hill-slope to the house for sheer joy that
she was alive.

"The Campbells are coming, O ho, O ho!" she sang, and the hills, taking up the refrain, echoed
"O ho, O ho!"

True Tammas, who had slept all night under the straw-stack by the byre, came bounding down
the little path to meet her, wagging his tail and barking his morning greeting. They reached
the door together, but Jock, mindful of his injuries, had shut and barred it, and was grinning
at them through the window. Jean sat placidly down upon the step with True Tammas beside her
and continued her song. Her calmness irritated Jock.

"Aye," he shouted through the crack, "the Campbells may be coming, but they'll not get in this
house! You can just sit there blethering all day, and I'll never unbar the door."

Jean stopped singing long enough to answer: "You'll get no breakfast, then, you mind, unless
you'll be getting it yourself, for the porridge is not cooked and the kettle's nearly boiled
away. I've the water-pail with me, and there's not a drop else in the house."

She left him to consider this and resumed her song. For several minutes she and True Tammas
sat there gazing westward across the valley with the little river flowing through it, to the
hills swimming in the blue distance beyond.

At last she called over her shoulder, "Jock, Father's coming," and Jock, seeing that his cause
was hopelessly lost, unfastened the door. Jean, her father, and True Tammas all came into the
kitchen together, and the moment she was in the room again you should have seen how she ordered
things about!

"Set the milk right down here, Father," she said, tapping the table with her finger as she
flew past to get the strainer and a pan, "and you, Jock, fill the kettle. It's almost dry this
minute. And stir up the fire under it. Tam,"--that was what they called the dog for short,--"go
under the table or you'll get stepped on!"

You should have seen how they all minded!--even the father, who was six feet tall, with a jaw
like a nut-cracker and a face that would have looked very stern indeed if it hadn't been for
his twinkling blue eyes. When the milk was strained and put away in the little shed room back
of the kitchen chimney, Jean got out the oatmeal-kettle and hung the porridge over the fire,
and while that was cooking she set three places at the tiny table and scalded the churn. Meanwhile
Jock went out to feed the fowls. By half past six the oatmeal was on the table and the little
family gathered about it, reverently bowing their heads while the Shepherd of Glen Easig asked
a blessing upon the food.

There was only porridge and milk for breakfast, so it took but a short time to eat it, and
then the real work of the day began. The Shepherd put on his Kilmarnock bonnet and called Tam,
who had had his breakfast on the hearth, and the two went away to the hills after the sheep.
Jock led the cow to a patch of green turf near the bottom of the hill, where she could find
fresh pasture, and Jean was left alone in the kitchen of the little gray house. Ah, you should
have seen her then! She washed the dishes and put them away in the cupboard, she skimmed the
milk and put the cream into the churn, she swept the hearth and shook the blankets out of doors
in the fresh morning air. Then she made the beds, and when the kitchen was all in order, she
"went ben"--that was the way they spoke of the best room--and dusted that too. There wasn't
really a bit of need of dusting the room, for it was never, never used except on very important
occasions, such as when the minister called. The little house was five miles from the village,
so the minister did not come often, but Jean kept it clean all the time just to be on the safe
side.

There wasn't so very much work to do in the room after all, for there was nothing in it but
the fireplace, a little table with the Bible, the Catechism, and a copy of Burns's poems on
it, and three chairs. The kitchen was a different matter: There were the beds, and they were
hard for a small girl to manage, and the cupboard with its shelves of dishes. There were three
stools, and a big chair for the Shepherd, and the great chest where the clothes were kept,
and besides all these things there was the wag-at-the-wall clock on the mantel-shelf which
had to be wound every Saturday night. If you want to know just where these things stood, you
have only to look at the plan, where their places are so plainly marked that, if you were suddenly
to wake up in the middle of the night and find yourself in the little gray house, you could
go about and put your hand on everything in it in the dark.

Jock stayed with the cow as long as he dared, and went back to the house only when he knew
he couldn't postpone his tasks any longer. Jean was sweeping the doorstep as he came slowly
up the hill.

"Come along, Grandfather," she called out, her brow sternly puckered in front and her curls
bobbing gaily up and down behind. "A body'd think you were seventy-five years old and had the
rheumatism to see you move! Come and work the churn a bit. 'Twill limber you up."

Jock knew that arguments were useless. His father had told him, girl's work or not, he was
to help Jean, so he slowly dragged into the house and slowly began to move the dasher up and down.

"Havers!" said Jean, when she could stand it no longer. "It's lucky there's a cover to the
churn else you'd drop to sleep and fall in and drown yourself in the buttermilk! The butter
won't be here at this rate till to-morrow, when it would break the Sabbath by coming!"

She seized the dasher, as she spoke, and began to churn so vigorously that the milk splashed
up all around the handle. Soon little yellow specks began to appear; and when they had formed
themselves into a ball in the churn, she lifted it out with a paddle and put it in a pan of
clear cold water. Then she gave Jock a drink of buttermilk.

"Poor laddie!" she said. "You are all tired out! Take a sup of this to put new strength in
you, for you've got to go out and weed the garden. I looked at the potatoes yesterday, and
the weeds have got the start of them already."

"If I must weed the garden, give me something to eat too," begged Jock. "This milk'll do no
more than slop around in my insides to make me feel my emptiness."

Jean opened the cupboard door and peeped within.

"There's nothing for you, laddie," she said, "but this piece of a scone. I'll have to bake
more for the Sabbath, and you can have this to give yourself a more filled-up feeling. And
now off with you!"

She took him by the collar and led him to the door; and there on the step was Tam.

"What are you doing here?" cried Jean, astonished to see him. "You should be with Father, watching
the sheep! It's shame to a dog to be lolling around the house instead of away on the hills
where he belongs."

Tam flattened himself out on his stomach and dragged himself to her feet, rolling his eyes
beseechingly upward, and if ever a dog looked ashamed of himself, that dog was Tam. Jean shook
her head at him very sternly, and oh, how the jolly little curls bobbed about.

"Tam," she said, "you're as lazy as Jock himself. Whatever shall I do with the two of you?"

Jock had already finished his scone and he thought this a good time to disappear. He slipped
round the corner of the house and whistled. All Tam's shame was gone in an instant. He gave
a joyous bark and bounded away after Jock, his tail waving gayly in the breeze.

II. THE RABBIT AND THE GAMEKEEPER

Out in the garden a rabbit had for some time been enjoying himself nightly in the potato-patch,
biting off the young sprouts which were just sticking their heads through the ground. When
the rabbit heard Tam bark she dashed out of sight behind a burdock leaf and sat perfectly still.
Now if Tam and Jock had come into the garden by the wicket gate, as they should have done,
this story might never have been written at all, because in that case the rabbit would perhaps
have got safely back to her burrow in the woods without being seen, and there wouldn't have
been any story to tell.

But Tam and Jock didn't come in by the gate. They jumped over the wall. Jock jumped first and
landed almost on top of the rabbit, but when Tam, a second later, landed in the same place,
she was running for dear life toward the hole in the stone wall where she had got in. Shouting
and barking, Jock and Tam tore after her. Round and round the garden they flew, but just as
they thought they had her cornered, the rabbit slipped through the hole in the wall and ran
like the wind for the woods. Jock and Tam both cleared the wall at a bound and chased after
her, making enough noise to be heard a mile away.

It happened that there was some one much less than a mile away to hear it. And it happened,
too, that he was the one person in all the world that Jock would most wish not to hear it,
for he was gamekeeper to the Laird of Glen Cairn, and the Laird of Glen Cairn owned all the
land for miles and miles about in every direction. He owned the little gray house and the moor,
the mountain, and the forest, and even the little brook that sang by the door. To be sure,
the Laird seemed to care very little for his Highland home. He visited it but once in a great
while, and then only for a few days' hunting. The rest of the year his great stone castle was
occupied only by Eppie McLean, the housekeeper, and two or three other servants. The Laird
did not know his tenants, and they did not know him. The rents were collected for him by Mr.
Craigie, his factor, who lived in the village, and Angus Niel was appointed to see that no
one hunted game on the estate.

Angus was a man of great zeal in the performance of his duty, to judge by his own account of
it. He was always telling of heroic encounters with poachers in the forests, and though he
never seemed to succeed in catching them and bringing them before the magistrate, his tales
were a warning to evil-doers and few people dared venture into the region which he guarded.
He was often seen creeping along the outskirts of the woods, his gun on his shoulder, his round
eyes rolling suspiciously in every direction, or even loitering around the cow byres as if
he thought game might be secreted there.

At the very moment when Jock and Tam came flying over the fence and down the hill like a cyclone
after the rabbit, Angus was kneeling beside the brook to get a drink. His lips were pursed
up and he was bending over almost to the surface of the water, when something dashed past him,
and an instant later something else struck him like a thunderbolt from behind, and drove him
headforemost into the brook! It wasn't Tam that did it. It was Jock! Of course, it was an accident,
but Angus thought he had done it on purpose, and he was probably the most surprised as well
as the angriest man in Scotland at that moment. He lifted his head out of the brook and glared
at Jock as fiercely as he could with little rills of water pouring from his hair and nose,
and trickling in streams down his neck.

"I'll make you smart for this, you young blatherskite," he roared at Jock, who stood before
him frozen with horror. "I'll teach you where you belong! You were running after that rabbit,
and your dog is yelping down a hole after her this minute!" He was such a funny sight as he
knelt there, dripping and scolding, that, scared as he was, Jock could not help laughing. More
than ever enraged, Angus made a sudden lunge forward and seized Jock by the ear.

"You come along o' me," he said. His invitation was so urgent that Jock felt obliged to accept
it, and together the two started up the slope to the little gray house. Tam, meanwhile, had
given up the chase and joined them, his tail at half-mast.

When they reached the house Angus bumped the door open without knocking, and stamped into the
kitchen. Jean was bending over the fire turning a scone on the girdle, when the noise at the
door made her jump and look around. She was so amazed at the sight which met her eye that for
an instant she stood stock-still, and Angus, seeing that he had only two children to deal with,
gave Jock's ear a vicious tweak and began to bluster at Jean.

But, you see, he didn't know Jean. When she saw that great fat man abusing her brother and
tracking mud all over her kitchen floor at the same time, instead of being frightened, as she
should have been, Jean shook her cooking-fork at Angus Niel and stamped her foot smartly on
the floor.

"You let go of my brother's ear this instant," she shouted, "and take your muddy boots out
of my kitchen!"

Angus let go of Jock's ear for sheer surprise, and Jock at once sprang to his sister's side,
while Tam, seeing that trouble was brewing, gave a low growl and bared his teeth. Angus gave
a look at Tam and decided to explain.

"This young blatherskite here," he began, in a voice that caused the rafters to shake, "has
been trespassing. He was after a rabbit. I caught him in the very act. I'll have the law on
him! He rammed me into the burn!"

"I didn't mean to," shouted Jock, "I thought you were a stone, and I just meant to step on
you and jump across the burn."

"You meant to step on me, did you?" roared Angus. "Me! Do you know who I am?" Jock knew very
well, but he didn't have time to say so before Angus, choking with rage, made a furious lunge
for his ear and left two more great spots of mud on the kitchen floor. It was not to be borne.
Jean pointed to his feet.

"You're trespassing yourself," she screamed. "You've no right in this house, And you take yourself
out of it this minute! Just look at the mud you've tracked on my floor!"

Angus did look. He looked not only at the floor but at Tam, for Tam was now slowly approaching
him, growling as he came.

Angus thought best to do exactly as Jean said and as quickly as possible. He reached the door
in two jumps with Tam leaping after him and nipping his heels at each jump, and in another
instant found himself on the doorstep with the door shut behind him.

Angus considered himself a very important man. He wasn't used to being treated in this way,
and it's no wonder he was angry. He swelled up like a pouter pigeon; and shook his fist at
the door.

"You just mind who I am," he shouted. "If ever I catch you poaching again, I'll have you up
before the bailie as sure as eggs is eggs!"

But the door didn't say a word, and it seemed beneath his dignity to scold a door that wouldn't
even answer back, so he stamped away growling. The children watched him until he disappeared
in the woods, and when at last they turned from the window, the scone on the girdle was burned
to a cinder and had to be given to the chickens!

You might have thought that by this time Jean had done enough work even for Saturday, but there
was still the broth to make for supper and for the Sabbath, and the kitchen floor to be scrubbed,
and, last of all, the family baths! When the little kitchen was as clean as clean could be,
Jean got the wash-tub and set it on the hearth. Jock knew the signs and decided he'd go out
behind the byre and look for eggs, but Jean had her eye on him.

"Jock Campbell," said she, "you go at once and get the water."

In vain Jock assured her he was cleaner than anything and didn't need a bath. Jean was firm.
She made him fill the kettles, and when the water was hot, she shut him up in the kitchen with
soap and a towel while she took all the shoes to the front steps to polish for Kirk on the
morrow. When at last Jock appeared before her he was so shiny clean that Jean said it dazzled
her eyes to look at him, so she sent him for the cow while she took her turn at the tub.

By four o'clock, Tam, who had spent an anxious afternoon by the hole in the garden wall watching
for the rabbit, suddenly remembered his duties and started away over the moors to meet the
Shepherd and round up any sheep that might have strayed from the flock, and at five Jock, returning
from the byre, met his father coming home with Tam at his heels.

The regular evening tasks were finished just as the sun sank out of sight behind the western
hills, and the birds were singing their evening songs, and when they went into the kitchen
a bright fire was blazing on the hearth, the broth was simmering in the kettle, and Jean had
three bowls of it ready for them on the table.

While they ate their supper Jock told their father all about the rabbit and Angus Niel and
his ducking in the burn, and when Jock told about Jean's ordering him out of the kitchen, and
of his jumping to the door with Tam nipping at his heels, the Shepherd slapped his knee and
laughed till he cried. Tam, sitting on the hearth with his tongue lolling out, looked as if
he were laughing, too.

"Havers!" cried the Shepherd, "I wish I'd been here to see that sight! Angus is that swollen
up with pride of position, he's like to burst himself. He needed a bit of a fall to ease him
of it, but I'd never have picked out Jean Campbell to trip him up! You're a spirited tid, my
dawtie, and I'm proud of you."

"But, Father," said Jock, "whatever shall we do about the rabbits? The woods are full of them,
and there'll not be a sprig of green left in the garden. They can hop right over the wall,
even if we do stop up the hole."

"Aye," answered his father solemnly, "and that's a serious question, my lad. They get worse
every year, and syne we'll have no tatties for the winter, let alone other vegetables. A deer
came into Andrew Crumpet's garden one night last week and left not a green sprout in it by
the morning. The creatures must live that idle gentlemen may shoot them for pleasure, even
though they eat our food and leave us to go hungry." His brow darkened and a long-smouldering
wrath burst forth into words. "There's no justice in it," he declared, thumping the table with
his fist till the spoons danced, "Lairds or no Lairds, Anguses or no Anguses."

The Twins had never before heard their father speak like that, and they were a little frightened.
They were too young to know the long years of injustice in such matters that stretched far
back into the history of Scotland.

For a few minutes after this outburst the Shepherd remained silent, gazing into the fire; then
he roused himself from his brown study and said: "I've been keeping something from you, my
bairns. Mr. Craigie told me last week that the Auld Laird has taken a whim to turn all this
region into a game preserve, and that he will not renew our lease when the time is up. It has
till autumn to run, and then, God help us, we'll have to be turned out of this house where
I've lived all my life and my forebears before me, and seek some other place to live and some
other work to do."

"But what can you do else?" gasped Jock. He felt that his world was tumbling about his ears.

"The Lord knows," answered the Shepherd. "Emigrate to America likely. I've always been with
the sheep and nothing else. It may be I can hire out to some other body, but chances are few
hereabouts, and if the Auld Laird carries out this notion, there'll be many another beside
ourselves who'll need to be walking the world. It seems unlikely he would be for taking away
the town too, even if it is but a wee bit of a village, and the law gives him the right, for
times have changed since that lease was made, long years ago, and there are few in this day
who would venture to enforce it. But the Auld Laird's a hard man, I'm told, and he chooses
hard men to carry out his will. Mr. Craigie has little heart, and as for Angus Niel, he'd make
things worse rather than better if he had his way." Then, seeing tears gathering in Jean's
eyes, he said to comfort her, "There now, dinna greet, my lassie! There's no sense in crossing
a bridge till you come to it, and this bridge is still four months and a bittock away. We've
the summer before us, and the Lord's arm is not shortened that it cannot save. We'll make the
best of it and have one more happy summer, let the worst come at the end of it."

"But, Father," urged Jock, "will he turn every one out, do you think?"

"Who can foretell the whimsies of a selfish man?" answered the Shepherd. "He has only his own
will to consider, but my opinion is he'll turn out those whose holdings lie nearest the forests
and would be best for game, whatever he may do with the rest."

This was overwhelming news, and the children sat silent beside their silent father, trying
to think of something to comfort their sad hearts. At last Jean lifted her head with a spirited
toss and said, "Gin we were to go to-morrow, the dishes would still have to be washed," and
she began to clear the table.

Her father laughed, and oh, how his laugh brightened the little kitchen and seemed to bid defiance
to the fates!

"That's right, little woman," he said. "You've the true spirit of a Campbell in you. We must
aye do the duty at hand and trust the Lord for the rest."

Jock was so impressed with the solemn talk of the evening that he wiped the dishes without
being asked and went to bed of his own accord when the wag-at-the-wall clock struck eight.
The Shepherd sat alone beside the fire until the children were in bed and asleep; then he sent
Tam to the straw stack, wound the clock, and took his own turn at the tub. Last of all he covered
the coals with ashes for the night and crept into bed beside Jock.

III. THE SABBATH

The Sabbath morning dawned bright and clear, and the Campbells were all up early and had the
chores done before seven o'clock. Then came breakfast, and after breakfast Jean ran "ben the
room," and brought the Bible to her father. Then she and Jock sat with folded hands while he
read a long chapter about the "begats." Jock thought there seemed to be a very large family
of them. This was followed by a prayer as long as the chapter. The prayer was so long that
True Tammas went sound asleep on the hearth and had a dream that must have been about the rabbit,
for his ears twitched and he made little whiny noises and jerked his legs. It was so long that
the kettle boiled clear away and made such alarming, crackling sounds that Jean couldn't help
peeking through her fingers just once, because it was their only kettle, and if it should go
and burst itself during family prayers, whatever should they do! The moment the Shepherd said
"Amen," Jean sprang so quickly to lift it from the fire that she stumbled over Tam and woke
him up and almost burned her fingers besides. The kettle wasn't really spoiled, and while the
water was heating in it for the dishes, Jean took up the little yellow book and said to Jock,

"Come here now, laddie, and see if you can say your catechism. Do you ken what is the chief
end of man?"

"Dod, and I do," answered Jock. "You let me spier the questions."

"No," answered Jean firmly. "I'll spier them first myself."

"You're thinking I can't answer," said Jock. "I'll fool you."

He stood up as straight as a whole row of soldiers and fired off the answer all in one breath.

"The-chief-end-of-man-is-to-glorify-God-and-enjoy-Him-forever," he shouted.

Jean nodded approvingly. "You ken that one all right, but that is the first one in the book
and everybody knows that one. Now I'm going to skip around."

"Don't skip," urged Jock. "Take them just the way they come. I can remember 'em better."

But Jean gave no quarter. "What is predestination?" she demanded.

This was a poser, but Jock tackled it bravely.

"Whom he did foreknow he also did predestinate to-to-" he got so far and stuck.

"To what?" asked Jean.

"To be reformed," Jock hazarded, wallowing in difficulties.

"Conformed," corrected Jean. "You don't know that one at all! What is Saving Grace?"

Jock fell down entirely on saving grace. "It's a--It's a--" he began. Then he bit his lip and
scowled, and looked up at the ham hanging from the rafters, and out of the windows, but as
nothing more about saving grace occurred to him he said, "Aw, Jean, I know, but I can't think."

"If you knew, you wouldn't have to think," Jean retorted, and then she made him take the book
and sit down on the stool by the window and learn both answers while she finished the dishes.

It was ten miles to the village and back, and there was no way to get there except by walking,
but the Campbells would sooner have thought of going without their food than of staying away
from the Kirk, and so by eight o'clock they were all dressed in their best clothes and ready
to start. They left True Tammas sitting on the doorstep with his ears drooped and his eyes
looking very sorrowful. He wanted to go with them, but he knew well that he must stay at home
to guard the sheep from stray dogs.

It was springtime, and the world was so lovely that the troubles the little family had faced
the evening before seemed far away and impossible in the morning light. It was as if they had
awakened from a bad dream. Who could help being happy on such a morning? The birds were flying
about with straw and bits of wool in their bills to weave into their nests, and singing as
if they would split their little throats. The river splashed and gurgled and sang as it dashed
over its rocky bed on its way to the sea. From the village came the distant music of the church
bells. The hawthorn was in bloom, and the river-banks and roadsides were gay with dandelions
and violets, daisies and buttercups. Far away the mountains lifted their blue summits to the
sky, and on a nearer hill they could see the gray towers of the castle of the Laird of Glen Cairn.

The bell was ringing its final summons and all the people were pouring into the little vestibule
as the Campbells reached the steps of the Kirk. Angus Niel pushed past them, looking as puffy
as a turkey-cock with its feathers spread, and glaring at the Twins so fiercely that Jock whispered
to Jean, "If I poked my finger at him I believe he'd gobble," and made her almost laugh aloud.
When they passed Mr. Craigie, who held the plate for people to drop their money in, Jean whispered
to Jock, "He looks for all the world like a pair of tongs in his blacks, he's that tall and
thin," and then Jock certainly would have laughed outright if he hadn't seen Mrs. Crumpet's
eye on him.

The sermon was very long and the seats were hard and high, but the service did come to an end
at last, although Jock was sure it was never going to, and afterward the children with their
father stood about in the churchyard for a little while talking to their neighbors and friends.

The farm of Andrew Crumpet lay in the same direction as the home of the Campbells, so it was
natural that they should walk along together and that the two men should talk about the thing
that was uppermost in their minds. Mrs. Crumpet had gone on ahead with another neighbor, and
Sandy Crumpet, who was twelve too, and had yellow hair, a snub nose, and freckles like Jock's
own, walked with the Twins behind the two fathers. As they turned into the road, the children
heard Andrew say, with a heavy sigh: "Aye, Robin, we must just make up our minds to it. The
Auld Laird's bent on getting us out."

"Has Mr. Craigie given you notice, too?" asked the Shepherd.

"Aye, has he," Andrew answered with bitterness, "and short work he made of it. It means little
to him telling a man to leave his home and go out in the world to seek new work at our time
of life."

"He passes for a religious man," said the Shepherd.

"So did the Pharisee in the temple," said Andrew, "but 'by their fruits ye shall know them,'
and we're not gathering any figs off of Mr. Craigie, nor grapes from that thorn of an Auld
Laird that I can see!"

"Nor from Angus Niel, either," agreed Robin Campbell. "The Auld Laird's servants are of a piece
with himself."

"Fine I ken that," answered Andrew.

"Well," sighed the Shepherd, "the toad under the harrow cannot be expected to praise the plowman,
and we're just like the toad."

"Very true," said Andrew, "but the toad has the best of it. We are being destroyed; not that
some one may till the land, but that it may go to waste, and be kept out of use. We suffer
that the rich may be richer and the poor poorer, that less food may be produced instead of
more. I tell you, Robin, it is not justice."

"It may be so. It may be so," sighed the Shepherd, "but it is the law, and we must just submit."

The two men walked on in silence to the bridge, where the Crumpets turned, while the Campbells
kept on beside the river. The children were silent, too, only calling out "Good-bye" to Sandy
as they parted, Jock adding, "Come on by to-morrow if you can," and Sandy, waving his hand,
calling back, "Aye, will I."

As the Twins and their father neared the "wee bit hoosie," Tam came bounding down the brae
to meet them, and in less time than it takes to tell it Jean had run into the house, taken
off her Sabbath dress, and put on her old one, with her kitchen apron over it, had mended the
fire and heated the broth, and the little family was seated about the table eating their frugal
meal with appetites sharpened by their long walk.

The afternoon seemed endless to the children, for they spent it trying hard not to do any of
the things they wanted to do. They studied the catechism while their father sat with his bonnet
on his head nodding over the Bible, and the wag-at-the-wall clock ticked the hours solemnly
away. Jock whispered to Jean that he didn't see why Sunday was so much longer than any other
day, and didn't believe her when she said it wasn't really that it only seemed so.

IV. THE NEW BOY

Usually Jean and Jock went to school in summer, for in winter the snow made the roads impassable,
but at this time the Dominie was ill and until he should get well they had the long days to
themselves. When breakfast was over the next morning and the Shepherd had gone with Tam to
the hills, Jean decided to wash the clothes. Sandy Crumpet came early, and the two boys went
off to play, leaving Jean standing on a stone in the middle of the burn, soaping the clothes
and scrubbing them on the flat surface of a rock. The water was so cold it made her arms ache,
and she soon decided to let the fast-running stream do the washing for her. She soaped the
garments well, weighted them down with stones, and then went to join the boys. She found them
flat on their stomachs by the stream, gazing down into a pool of clear water.

"What do you see?" she called out to them.

"Trout," answered Jock, his eyes shining with excitement.

"Let me take a keek," said Jean, flopping down beside them and craning her neck over the edge.

They were all three peering with breathless interest into the water when a strange voice behind
them made them jump. For an instant they thought it might be Angus Niel.

"Hello!" said the voice.

The children whirled around, and there before them stood a boy not much older than themselves,
but taller and thinner. He had a pale face with large black eyes and dark hair partly covered
with a Glengarry bonnet set rakishly over one ear. "The father is attend
with them! Now he must tell the Germans! "

Helen was shocked by the despair of the boy. They tried to console him, pulled him with maternal
tenderness in itself: is "the Father back tomorrow already, the officer has it promised to honor.
Look, if he had not given, we would all be killed been.

He had to call, but he could not do otherwise! "

"But the father but the Germans can not tell," sobbed the child.

"Not any more. Think Think that now we would all cruelly abused and killed. God Praise, that the
Father has watched over us. "

Gebhard could not grasp, he angrily stomped and shouted: "The father may not a traitor be! "

The
mother saw the boy rigid: "Have you no heart for the father, for me and for our Small? Did you think
we would be slaughtered cruelly, you and all of us? "

Gebhard replied vehemently, "Yes, yes, I would much rather have this"

The dam was breaking. She could not understand the child, and was hurt in the deepest heart by his
response. But go talk to him was not possible, for appeared in the doorway the maid, pale with terror,
with tearful eyes, "said the man, we must hurry, that we get on, the Lord's call him a promise.
Our poor, poor master, they have kept him! Russians on a horse, in the midst of the enemy
all alone! And he has been ever so brave looking around, so he bravely
rode it!

The poor man, what will they do with him? "

Helen had to say on his lips: "He nothing happens tomorrow, he will meet us;" but she suppressed
the words. The people were not allowed to know that the Lord agreed to had to go with the enemy.
Difficult it was to the soul: the No German could ever . Learn It was treason, which her husband
committed suicide. For her sake he did so, lost not because of fear own life, the brave and
faithful man! How she wanted him to thank her for life!

The maid was admonished again to hurry. "What else is charging?"

Helen hastily reached for this and that hurried, carrying the girl down the stairs, said Gebhard
for assistance, as in a dream He took what was sufficed him.

The mother looked in a hurry after a piece of paper she had to write
a word that he should see if he in his desolate house came back, with
a heavy burden on his conscience a burden that he please her through
had to carry throughout life.

In haste, she wrote with a trembling hand: "Come soon me, my dearest treasure did, a thousand
thanks, that thou hast saved our lives! "centers on the table, she laid the paper, then another
next to it, what it should strengthen, bread and a Bottle of wine. Again, the maid came to the
door: "Now is tense."

"I'm coming!" She took her baby, which shrouded loving. The maid noticed the bread and wine,
wanted to take both. Helen would not let her on the table. "It is!" she cried.

"No wonder the poor young woman is very confused," thought the girl.

In the courtyard was all ready to flee. The dogs ran around the car.

You should run along to the house of the street warden, said the
servant, who should take them.

"But give Leo I not come here I take with me, "said Gebhard. The servant raised objections. Impossible
was based on the long journey, crowded with the trains. A lack of understanding it would be. The
mother saw that he was right, but they also knew what it meant to Gebhard, from his to separate
Leo. The father had given him a year before the young animal, taught him to treat it, a docile,
affectionate companion, it was grown and its little man had been
inseparable.

Even now they stood close together, Gebhard and his Dog, looked at himself and the animal
seemed wise to remember that a decision on his fate was. gave an
unusual, short bark it away.

The mother turned to the servant. "We want it but try and see if we can take with Leo!

"Oh yes, please, mother!"

The car began to move. The daughter in the womb, nestled softly sleeping,
gently.

Gebhard sat opposite her mother.

They were soon on the road guards, then went The trip continues,
the train to.

Along the road went on for the forest from which at any moment the enemies appear and attack
the defenseless could.

And in the hands of these enemies was the beloved husband, father of the faithful.

"Gebhard," the mother said quietly that it can not hear the servant on the box, "Gebhard, you but
have also heard that the Russian officer said, 'on officer's honor'. "

"Yes. Twice he said that."

"Such an oath is still safely held in the war," said Helene and added:
"So the father is certainly no later than tomorrow or the day after.

If only it was tomorrow! "

Gebhard turned away and said not a word on it.

With firmly closed mouth, he looked through Window.

The silence weighed on the mother. She spoke after a while again, "Why are you so still, Gebhard?
Are you afraid that the Russians are coming out of the woods? We are now near the station, here
it is not so dangerous. "

"I'm not afraid."

"Are you homesick for the Forsthof? After the peace we all come back."

But Gebhard was silent and the mother saw that he fought to hold back
the tears came to him in the eye.

She stretched out her hand to him.

"Come, sit beside me, Gebhard, come to me, tell me what you is so sad. The father comes to us but after
tomorrow. "

Then she came trembling out with loud sobs: "I can not even look forward
to the father.

I can now but never have the love my father and I love him so! "

Helen was frightened soul. She herself was so full of love and longing for her husband, she
had the deepest interest in him and Gebhard, his beloved boy spoke these words!

"As you may speak so, Gebhard," she exclaimed excitedly, "where he did it all just for our sake
added. He could not be otherwise! "

"But, mother, do not you remember first, he said firmly no,? But then you have opened the door and have
called 'save us'. Then you have seen the father. O would have you but not the door opened, then
the father would not be a traitor! "

The mother turned pale and dropped his hand.

After a little while, she said in a serious, strange tone: "If the father comes back, say something
to him, never, or you do it very unhappy. A Traitor to anyone talk like that again! "Then she
turned away would be and he felt that she now loved, if not sitting
next to her, went to his first Place back and thought: "The mother
can love me and I can now no longer the father no more love, all that
was beautiful is over.

"He sat back in his window seat, Forest was no longer visible, unknown
country, everything, everything is different.

An hour later they arrived at the station, were soon in the worst turmoil, but had still using the
servant and maid who could leave until later in the other direction.
On Switch crowded with people.

Helene demanded tickets for himself and Gebhard. "And a dog's card."

"That's not now."

"Can he with the cars?"

"No question. We are happy when we bring people together. Next!"

Helene was pushed away from the oncoming impatient.

What to do now with Leo? The servant comforted Gebhard, promised to accommodate the dog well.
Gebhard and saw that it could not be otherwise, where people crowded around mother and child,
in the stream they were pushed away, no time to say goodbye to the
loyal servants, not even by the beloved dog.

A whimpering Gebhard heard - he knew it was him.

Crammed in the car were our refugees, with difficulty, they had not attained seats. More and more
travelers come crowding. Gebhard looked through the window into the crowd. Finally emptied the
platform, the signal for departure was given, and just looked at that moment Gebhard's Leo again
suddenly appear. He had the hand of the servant torn raced toward the car, looked out of the
Gebhard jumped quickly up and over all obstacles between scolding people and down to the compartment
where he immediately under the seat of his little man ducked, and so for themselves solved the
question of whether Dogs should ride.

Gebhard was so overjoyed that even Helen, who at first startled by
the intruder was friendly nod to the animal towards her peeping anxiously
under the seat do not quite sure whether it would be tolerated.

However, a man tried to raise objections. "It is not that used to be such a big dog in the
car."

But a senior Man sided with the animal or even more for the family.

"Certainly not heard it," he remarked, "but it is not even that such
a young mistress must flee with the young child.

And a flight will be,'s good. After Leisure travelers, they do not look. I guess it? "

Helen could only affirm fight against tears in an unsteady voice.

"Well, then, then you will deny no one the dog, so a faithful pet is also a Protection. "

So there was the dog without complaint and proved on the trip as a
clever animal.

"Have you noticed Mother, as Leon is so smart and still holds when
the guard comes in?

Asked "Gebhard.

No, Helen had not followed. She sat lost in serious thought. First had only the care they oppressed,
whether the beloved husband certainly come back tomorrow. But gradually lay down their heavy on his
heart the thought that he might well come back, but with a Guilt
on his conscience that never was, never repaid.

If even this betrayal Gebhard so deeply felt, how much more his father!

And she had caused him! His whole life had spoiled!

And then came other serious considerations. She could not decide - as it her husband's desire was
- to go to his mother. This was a brave, but also strict Woman. Helen did not feel the courage
to tell her what had happened, and it was impossible before her to appear before his eyes.
So they thought and decided with her brother refuge to search. He and his wife had kindly offered
to have the outbreak of war, Helene contact our daughter. At that time she had not want to separate
from her husband. Now it was different. They wanted to go there, but where her husband would turn?

In
this thought Gebhard had question it interrupted. Now he saw the mother carefully and participating
in his view was changed how they looked. She had always had such bright eyes and a happy mouth.
Now, the eyes were dull and twitching of the mouth as cautious of pain. Gebhard thought of his
father.

If the process now seem, well, then the mother would again appear as bright as ever so happy he
would have reached taken as the father, but he could not, on the contrary that she was so changed,
was probably his fault, since the conversation in the car she was so quiet. He might have the
not have said what he had said.

What could he do but now? Lauter strangers were sitting around, you could say nothing to love
their mother. For a while he remained silent and thoughtfully, but suddenly came to him what he
was looking for. "Mother, our sleeping Jüngferlein so gently, just see how rosy your cheeks are!
"

The mother looked at the child, stroked the soft cheek, but it filled her eyes with tears.

Also Jüngferlein could elicit the joy? So, no advice knowing Gebhard It was just not without
the Father!

Chapter Three.

During the long, arduous journey Gebhard learned that the grandmother
does not house the destination should be, short in the mother country,
with her uncle and aunt, they should seek refuge.

It was a disappointment for him, the grandmother knew and loved him, the relatives of the mother
were alien to him. Helene looked like him to make. "Uncle and Aunt have already been invited;
they have much to absorb more easily than the grandmother, they have
a private country house the city, with a garden, you'll see that's
good we have with them.

"

"But if the father comes back, which we are looking at grandmother!"

"We write the grandmother where we are!"

"Then comes the father to us, he knows where that is?"

"But of course he knows that, Gebhard.

When my brother and his wife was our wedding The father brought me
there because I have no parents.

My brother got me too so sweet, you know, almost as if I were his
child.

He is much older than me. "Gebhard thought. "Yes, I can understand this already, that you like
him."

Sighing, he surrendered.

After many involuntary stay and ride Helene was almost unbearable with the two Children late at night
at their destination at. True, they had announced their attendance, but day and hour ahead
specify was impossible at this time.

So they stood in dark Night, with the tired children, with the dog
and much luggage on the platform, and did not as it should now come
up in her brother's house.

Everything about the station had a different look than before. Helen looked surprised at himself.
She had not thought that even at the station of this small city,
the war years was so noticeable.

Past her ran a female form in large white apron, the sleeves lined with the Red Cross. A bucket
of hot tea in the arm they walked from car to car and offered the
soldiers passing through the refreshment of.

One of them, a militia man, declined with thanks.

"We have only in the previous office, where tea, but if you are the
young woman with the kids over there would accept that I have gone
on for long, they are driven from their homes!

"

The assistant turned to the designated authority, saw the helpless group and immediately went towards
it. "Line up even further, can I help you?" she asked Helene. But when they close each other
were to recognize the two women. They were once together in the school
gone.

"I have not recognized the same, Helene, is that your baby would you have your own? need? Your husband
is probably called up? You poor thing, you look so attacked. Will not you picked up? No? Just
wait a little bit, I'll help you. See, there is a bank is, you for the time being, "and she
hurried back to the train here and there it was called and asked for tea.

A very young volunteers handed out a postcard that asked, you want to show him the love they interject,
because his mother did so much worried about him. She was full of
activity, The train drove off again.

Then she hurried to the small group of tired people they waited on, and she managed to raise
a car for them and their luggage and Dog is happy to accommodate. "Short-to producer," the
statement was for the driver.

The ride went through dark streets, as was saved on the lanterns in this war. Almost midnight,
it was until they stopped at the house, but a window was still illuminated and was opened at
the start of the car. "Who comes?" cried a voice from above. "We are they brother! "

A moment later the door opened and a brother, Fabrikant short, his name was night guests. "Forgive
me, that we'll fall so late at night into the house," said Helene,
"it could not be changed."

"For me it is not late, I now often work into the night. But one for the dog to you too? Whom
you do here? "Displeasure, he looked at Leo, pressed against the
Gebhard.

"It is Gebhard's favorite, they are so affectionate to each
other!" Men's short attention only now his little nephew.

"So this
is Gebhard We were actually believe he came to his grandmother, but
only comes up, we addressed two guest rooms. What about your man,
he is called up? "

"No, he will meet soon."

"Why did not he go with
you on the long trip? Does he still remain in the forest house?"

Helen
hesitated. "I'll tell you this tomorrow. We are so tired when we perhaps
equally likely to create! "

"You must eat it before!"

"Thanks, we
got what we needed on the road, we want only peace."

The husband
had rung the office girl who now appeared at the place of the housewife,
which should not be disturbed, to ensure the guests.

A beautiful
guest rooms with all facilities was addressed to Helene, a pram was
ready. Touched, she thanked his brother for this care. The little
girl who arrived asleep was now awakened, and began to vigorously
scream. The owner, himself no children had watched helplessly on the
small, unruly essence, ordered the girls to get everything else and
wished her sister good-night. Gebhard, he took with him, Leo followed.
"If only the Dog does not disturb their sleep, "said the uncle, as
they walked up the stairs.

"Prior to my door, he will certainly lie
quietly," assured Gebhard.

"Time will tell. When dogs come in strange
surroundings, they often cry. I wonder that you have allowed your
father to take him! "

"The father was not there when we left." Gebhard
had hardly said so noted he that he had better not speak about it.

"Where
is your father?" What should Gebhard respond? He did not know.

"I
mean where your father was, as you did you have to flee? Did he returned
home in the forest?"

"No." The clear embarrassment of the boy fell
on the man. It had to happen be what mother and son did not say much.

He
did not want to penetrate the child. In the upper floor of the house
was a second guest room prepares, fine and noble here was the setup.
"Will you cope alone?" asked the uncle, "or shall I send up the maid?"

"No
thanks, I can do everything alone. But please, uncle, when I Leo a
straw mat or is likely to put a blanket in front of my door, then
he understands that he belongs there. "

They failed to find a mat
and the dog took his place sensibly. Uncle and nephew wanted good
night. Gebhard was soon in his guest bed. But under the roof of the
foreign lonely bedroom came over him was a bitter nostalgia and despite
all the tiredness he not fall asleep. Thus far, far away he was from
the forest home! And the father, where was he? The father, from the
one now could say nothing when you were once so proud of him! The
small Boys had felt as if the ground shook under his feet, as also
with the homeland the clear conditions of the happy childhood vanished,
in which he was rooted.

If only the mother was asleep next door or
something to hear of the little ones, but would it was so very lonely
up here! Gebhard long resisted a brave little man against the tears,
but finally they came, the sobbing was suppressed and no longer shook
his body.

Amidst the silence of the night a sound was heard. Gebhard
sat up, listened and heard a faint whimpering at the door. Certainly
had the vigilant animal of his little man Heard sobbing and was worried.
Or had even homesick? Once again, the same unusual sound. It sounded
so sad! You had to console Gebhard. He groped in the darkness at the
door and barely had a gap opened, then squeezed the dog and pushed
in. with joyful barking at his master.

"Stop, stop!" Gebhard and
urged the well-drawn animal stopped immediately, but it waved and
witnessed his greatest joy. "Yes, yes, you must stay here," whispered
Gebhard, "you 're homesick, come here "He took a quiet beginning,
the mat and laid it beside his bed." So! then we are together, very
close. Lie down! "

While the Shepherd talked, the twilight had deepened into darkness, the fire had died down,
and the corners of the room were filled with mysterious tricky shadows that danced with the
flickering flames on the hearth. Jean looked fearfully over her shoulder. There was a creepy
feeling in the back of her neck, and Jock's eyes were as round as door-knobs. The Shepherd
laughed at them.

"Good children have little to fear from the fairy folk," he said. "Come, now, your eyes are
fair sticking out of your heads. I'll give you a skirl on the bagpipes if Jeanie'll bring them
from the closet. Jock, stir up the fire, and Alan, give your clothes a turn and see if they
are drying."

The children ran to do these errands, and in a moment the fire was flaming gayly up the chimney,
chasing the murky shadows out of the corners and making the room bright and cheerful again,
while the Shepherd, tucking the bag under his arm, stirred the echoes on old Ben Vane with
the wild strains of "Bonnie Doon" and "Over the Water to Charlie." At last he struck up the
music of the Highland Fling, and the three children sprang to the middle of the floor and danced
the wild Scotch dance together.

Just as the fun was at its height, and Alan, looking very handsome in his kilts, was doing
the heel and toe with great energy, there came a loud rap at the door. Instantly everything
stopped, just as short as Cinderella's ball did when the clock struck twelve, and the Shepherd,
laying aside his bagpipes, opened the door. There stood a man with a bundle on his arm. "Eppie
McLean sent these clothes to the lad," he said, handing the bundle to the Shepherd, "and he's
to come back along with me." Alan took the bundle, thanked the man, and disappeared with Jock
into "the room," where he changed his clothes, returning the kilts, with regret, to Jock. "I've
had just a grand day," he said to Jean and the Shepherd as he shook hands and took leave of
them in the kitchen afterward. "I'll be back to-morrow for my clothes."

"Come back and play then," said Jock.

When he was gone, Jean folded the kilts away in the closet again. "He's a fine braw laddie,"
said the Shepherd.

"Aye," said Jock. "He had two suits of clothes, one as good as the other, but he was not proud."

"I wonder what his father's work is," said Jean.

"He never spoke of his father at all, just his mother," said Jock, and at that moment the wag-at-the-wall
clock struck nine.

"Havers!" said Jean. "Look at the hour, Jock Campbell! Get you to your bed."

VI. TWO DISCOVERIES

That night Jock dreamed of water cows, and clans dressed in kilts, and when Sandy appeared
the next morning, his head was still buzzing with wild schemes of adventure.

"Come awa', Sandy," he said, "let's explore. We'll go up the burn and see if we can't find
out where it begins."

"What'll we do for lunch?" asked Sandy, who was practical. "I brought a scone with me--but
it'll never be enough for two."

"Ho!" said Jock. "If Rob Roy and all his men could live in caves all the time and take care
of themselves, I guess we can do it for one day. We can fish, and maybe we might find some
birds' eggs. I'm not afraid."

"What about Alan?" asked Jean.

"If he comes to play, tell him to follow us right up the burn and keep whistling the pewit's
call three times over, and if we don't see him, we'll hear him," said Jock. "There's no danger
of not finding us if he follows the water," and he and Sandy set forth at once.

Jean had finished her work and was wondering what to do with the long day which stretched before
her, when Alan came running up the hill and burst into the kitchen.

"Look here what I've got, Jean," he said, thumping a parcel down on the kitchen table and tearing
it open. "Eppie put this up for me."

Jean looked and there was a whole pound of bacon, three big scones, and a dozen eggs. "Save
us!" cried Jean, clasping her hands in admiration. "What will you do with it all?"

"I'll show you!" said Alan. "Where's Jock?"

"He and Sandy have gone up the burn, exploring," said Jean. "They said you were to follow,
and if you didn't find them, keep whistling the pewit's call three times till they answered you."

"What is the pewit's call?" asked Alan.

"Michty me!" said Jean. "Think of not knowing that!" She pursed up her lips and whistled "Pee-wit,
pee-wit, pee-wit."

"You see, we don't have them in London;" Alan apologetically explained, "unless it's in the
Zoo; but I say, Jean, aren't you coming, too? You're as good as a boy any day. Come along!"

"All right," said Jean. "I wanted to dreadfully. I'll get a basket for the lunch." She went
to the closet and brought out a basket which her father had made out of split willow twigs,
packed the lunch in it, and off they started.

They passed the place where the fish-bones were buried, and the spot where Alan had fallen
into the water the day before, and then plunged into the deep pine forest which filled the
glen and covered the mountain-sides. The pine-needles lay thick on the ground, and above them
the pine boughs waved in the breeze, making a soft sighing sound, "like a giant breathing,"
Jean said. The silence deepened as they went farther and farther into the woods. There was
only the purring of the water, the occasional snapping of a twig, or the lonely cry of a bird
to break the stillness. It was dark, too, except where the sunshine, breaking through the thick
branches overhead, made spots of golden light upon the pine-needles.

"It's almost solemn; isn't it?" said Jean to Alan in a hushed voice. "I was never so far in
the woods before."

"I wonder which side of the burn the boys went. If we should take the wrong side, we might
not find them," said Alan.

"Let's whistle," said Jean. She puckered her lips and gave the pewit call, but there was no answer.

"Perhaps they didn't hear it because the burn makes such a noise. It keeps growing louder and
louder," said Alan.

Whistling and listening for an answer at every few steps, they climbed over rocks and fallen
trees, keeping as close as possible to the stream, until suddenly they found themselves gazing
up at a beautiful waterfall which came gushing from a pile of giant rocks reaching up among
the topmost boughs of the pines.

"Oh, it's bonny! but how shall we get up?" cried Jean.

"We must just find a way," said Alan.

"It's a grand place for robbers and poachers," said Jean, looking fearsomely at the cliffs
stretching far above them. "Angus Niel says the forests are full of them."

"I'd as soon meet a poacher as Angus Niel himself," said Alan, laughing, "but I'm not afraid
as long as you're with me. It's Angus that's afraid of you, Jock says."

Jean laughed too. "I'm not afraid when I'm in my own kitchen, but it's different in the woods,"
she said.

Alan had been nosing around among the rocks as they talked, getting nearer and nearer to the
fall, and now he suddenly disappeared, and for a few moments Jean was quite alone in the woods.
Soon Alan reappeared from behind the fall itself and beckoned her to follow him.

Jean was looking at the wall of rock which loomed above them. "Sal!" she remarked, "we'll be
needing wings to get up there, or we'll smash all the eggs for sure."

For answer Alan popped out of sight again behind the fall, and Jean, following closely in his
wake, was just in time to catch sight of his legs as he dived into a hole opening into the
rocky wall. The cliff from which the water plunged overhung the rocks below in such a way that
she could pass behind the veil of water without getting wet at all.

Into this mysterious opening behind the fall Jean followed her leader, and found herself climbing
a narrow dry channel through which the stream had once forced its way. It was a hard, rough
scramble up a narrow passage worn by the water and through holes almost too small to squeeze
through, but at last she saw Alan's heels just disappearing over the edge of a jutting rock
and knew they were coming out into daylight again. An instant later Alan's head appeared in
the opening, his hand reached down to help her up, and with one last effort she came out upon
an open ledge and looked about her.

She could not help an exclamation of delight at what she saw. The rock was so high that they
could look out over the treetops clear to the slope where the little gray house stood. The
waterfall, plunging from a still higher level, made a barrier on one side of them, and on the
other side the cliff rose, a sheer wall of rock. Between the wall of water and the wall of
rock there was a cave extending into the solid rock for a distance of about twenty feet. There
was absolutely no way of reaching this fastness except through the hidden stair, and one might
wander for years through the forest and never see it at all.

"Oh," exclaimed Jean, "it's wonderful! How Jock will love this place! Don't you believe this
very cave was used by Rob Roy and his men?" and Alan, swelling with pride to think he had found
it all himself, said yes, he was sure of it.

"I tell you what we'll do," cried Alan, a minute later. "We'll just leave the basket here in
the cave, and when we've found the boys we'll come back and have our lunch here."

They tucked the basket away out of sight on a rocky shelf in the cave, and found their way
down the steep rough stairway to the bed of the stream again and, making a wide detour, came
out above the fall. They struggled on for nearly a mile farther still without finding any trace
of the boys, and were beginning to be discouraged, when they saw a break in the trees with
glimpses of blue sky beyond, and a few moments later came out upon the shores of a tiny mountain
lake, shining like a beautiful blue jewel in the dark setting of the pine trees on its banks.

Beyond the lake the purple peaks of higher mountains made a ragged outline against the sky.
The sun was now almost directly overhead; the waters of the lake were still, and its lovely
shores were mirrored on the placid surface. A great eagle soared in stately circles in the
deep blue sky. It was so beautiful and so still that the children stood a moment among the
rocks where the tarn emptied itself into the mountain stream to look at it.

"It's just the place for a water cow, or a horse maybe," Jean whispered to Alan.

"Sh!" was Alan's only reply. He seized Jean's hand and dragged hear down behind a rock and
pointed toward the south. There, coming out of the woods, was a beautiful stag. It poised its
noble head, and sniffed the air, as if it suspected there might be human beings about, and
then stepped daintily to the lake-shore and bent to drink. Its lips had scarcely touched the
water when the children were startled by the loud report of a gun.

"Poachers," gasped Jean, hiding her face and wishing they had never come. "Oh, where are Jock
and Sandy?" Her only thought was to make herself as small as possible and keep out of sight
behind the rocks, but Alan peered through the screen of bushes which hid the rock and made
violent gestures to Jean to make her look, too. Jean crawled on her hands and knees to Alan's
side, and when she looked, what she saw made her so angry that she would have sprung to her
feet if Alan had not held her down with a fierce grip. The stag was lying by the lake-shore,
and a man with the muzzle of his gun still smoking was running toward it from the woods. The
man was Angus Niel!

Jean was so astonished that for an instant she could not believe her own eyes. The two children
flattened themselves out on their stomachs and watched him pull a boat from its hiding-place
among some bushes on the shore, paddle quietly to the spot where the dead stag lay, and load
it swiftly into the boat. Then he raced back to the woods again and reappeared, carrying a
string of dead rabbits. These also he crowded into the boat, and then, taking up the oars,
rowed across the lake to a landing-place on the other side. The children watched him, scarcely
breathing in their excitement, until he had unloaded his game from the boat and disappeared
into the woods, dragging the body of the stag after him. In a few moments he came back for
the rabbits and, having disposed of them in the same mysterious way, returned to the boat.

Then Jean exploded in a fierce whisper. "The old thief!" she said, shaking her fist after him.
"He's the poacher himself! That's why he never brings any one before the bailie, though he's
always telling about catching them at it! And he making such a fuss because Jock chased the
rabbit that was eating up our garden! Oh, oh, oh!"

She clutched Alan and shook him in her boiling indignation. Alan laughed and shook her back.
"I didn't do it, you little spitfire!" he whispered, and Jean moaned, "Oh, I know it, Alan,
but I can't catch him and I'm so angry I've just got to do something to somebody."

"Do you know what that old thief does?" said Alan. "He sends that game down to the city--to
Glasgow, or Edinburgh, or even London, maybe--and gets a lot of money for it! No wonder he
tells big stories to make people afraid to go into the woods."

"I hope he won't meet the boys," moaned Jean. "Jock would be sure to let his tongue loose,
and then maybe he'd shoot him too!"

"Listen," said Alan. He gave the pewit's call and waited. It was answered from a point so near
that they were startled. They looked in every direction but saw nothing of the boys.

"Maybe it was a real pewit after all," whispered Jean, but just then a tiny pebble struck Alan's
cap, and, looking around in the direction from which it came, he saw two freckled faces rise
up from behind the rock on the opposite side of the spring.

"There they are," he said, punching Jean and pointing; "they came up the other side of the
burn." Then, making a cup of his hands, he called across the stream, "Did you see him?" The
boys nodded. "Slip back as fast as you can down that side of the burn," Alan said, "and we'll
meet at the fall. Wait at the foot if you get there first. We've got something to show you.
Whist, and be quick, for he'll be coming back before long, and this way like as not."

Jock and Sandy nodded and disappeared, and Alan and Jean, springing from their hiding-place,
hurried as fast as they could down their side of the stream to the trysting-place.

VII. THE CLAN

When Jean and Alan reached the waterfall, they found Jock and Sandy there before them. "Come
over to our side," Alan called. The two boys ran further down stream and crossed the brook
on stones which stood out of the water, and in a moment more were back again at the foot of
the fall.

"What have you got to show us?" demanded Jock. "I hope it's something to eat." Jock had bitterly
regretted his morning decision to find his food in the forest. The scone which Sandy had brought
from home had been divided and eaten long ago; and all four of the children were now so hungry
that they could think of nothing else, not even of Angus Niel and their adventures by the lake.

Alan looked cautiously around in every direction. "Follow me, and keep quiet tongues in your
heads," he said. Then he disappeared under the fall, and Jean instantly followed him. For a
moment Jock and Sandy were as mystified as Jean had been when Alan first found the secret stairway,
but it was not long before they, too, saw the hole in the rock, plunged in and, following the
winding passage-way, came out upon the top of the rock.

"There," said Alan, beaming with pride, as he displayed his wonderful lair, "doesn't this beat
Robinson Crusoe all to pieces? If he had found a place like this on his desert island, he wouldn't
have had to build a stockade or anything."

"It's one of the very caves where Rob Roy hid! I'm sure of it," Jock declared with conviction,
and Sandy was so overcome with admiration that he turned a back somersault and almost upset
Jean, who was coming out of the cave with the basket on her arm.

"You see," said Alan, "we could stay here a week if we had food enough, and never come down
at all. All we'd have to do for water would be to hold a pan under the edge of the fall. There's
no way of getting up here except by the secret stair, and that's not easy to find. There never
was such a place for fun."

Sandy had righted himself by this time and was gazing ecstatically at the basket, which Jean
had begun to unpack. "Losh!" he cried. "Look, Jock! Bacon and eggs and scones! Oh, my word!"
Jock gave one look and whooped for joy.

"Keep still," said Alan. "Angus may be coming back this way, and he has a gun with him. We're
safe enough up here, if we keep quiet, but if you go howling around like that, he'll surely
hunt for the noise."

For a moment they kept quiet and listened, but there was no sound except the noise of the falling
waters. "Huh!" Sandy snorted, "he couldn't hear anything, anyway. The roar of the fall hides
all the other noises."

"Oh, let's eat!" begged Jock, caressing his empty stomach and gazing longingly at the food.

"You can't eat now," said Jean; "the food must be cooked first, and what shall we do for a fire?"

"We could make one right here on the rock," said Alan, "if we had something to burn. I've got
matches."

"We'll have to get twigs and dry pine-needles and broken branches," said Jock, "and bring them
up the secret stair, though it'll be hard work getting them through the narrow places. We ought
to have a rope. We could pull a basketful up over the edge of the rock as easy as nothing."

"We'll bring a rope next time," said Alan. "Hurry! I'm starving!"

The three boys disappeared down the secret stair, and while they were gone, Jean found loose
stones, with which she made a support for the frying-pan around a space for the fire. The boys
were soon back with plenty of small fuel, and in a short time a bright fire was blazing on
the rock and there was a wonderful smell of frying bacon in the air. The boys sat cross-legged
around the fire, while Jean turned the bacon and broke the eggs into the sputtering fat.

"You look just exactly like Tam watching the rabbit-hole," laughed Jean. "I wonder you don't
paw the ground and bark!"

At last the scones were handed out, each one laden with a slice of bacon and a fried egg, and
there was blissful silence for some moments.

"Oh, aren't you glad you didn't die of the measles and miss this?" Sandy said to Alan, rolling
over on his back and waving his legs in the air as he finished his third egg. Alan's mouth
was too full for a reply other than a cordial grunt.

"Why, Sandy Crumpet!" exclaimed Jean, reprovingly, "don't you believe heaven is nicer than
Scotland?"

"Maybe it is," Sandy admitted, doubtfully, "but I like this better than sitting around playing
on harps and trumpets the way the angels do."

"Sandy Crumpet played the trumpet," howled Jock in derision. "Indeed and indeed, Sandy, I like
this better than having to hear you." Then, before Sandy could think of an answer a memory
of the catechism crossed his mind, and he added as afterthought, "How do you ken you're one
of the elect, anyway, Sandy Crumpet? If you're not, you'd not be playing on any trumpets, or
harps either, but like as not frying in the hot place like that bacon there."

Sandy rushed to the defense of his character. "I'm just as elect as you are, Jock Campbell,"
he said.

This time Jock had no answer ready, and Jean reproved them both. "Shame on you!" she said.
"You'll neither one of you get so much as a taste of heaven, I doubt, and you talking like that."

"Where will Angus Niel be going, then, when he dies?" asked Jock. "I don't just mind whether
there's a chance for thieves, but the Bible says drunkards and such-like stand no chance at all."

"It's not for us to judge," said Jean primly, "but I have my opinion."

Alan had been busily eating during this conversation, and now he joined in. "I say," he began,
"I'm not worrying about what will become of Angus Niel after he's dead. I want to know what's
going to be done with him right now. We're the only ones that know about this. Are we just
going to keep whist, or shall we tell on him?"

"Let's tell on him!" shouted Sandy.

"Who'll you be telling?" said Jean with some scorn.

"Why, the bailie, maybe, or the Auld Laird himself," said Sandy.

"Havers!" said Jean. "You're a braw lad to go hobnobbing with the bailie. He'll not believe
you, anyway; he's a friend of Angus himself, and, as for the Auld Laird, how would you get
hold of him at all, and he far away in London?"

Sandy subsided, crushed, and then Jock had a bright idea. "I tell you what we'll do," he cried,
springing to his feet. "Let's have a clan, like Rob Roy, and we'll just badger the life out
of Angus Niel. We'll never let him know who we are, but keep kim forever stepping and give
him no rest. If he thinks somebody's following him up all the time, he'll not sleep easy o'
nights!"

This suggestion was greeted with riotous applause. "He'd not sleep easy if he knew Jean was
after him, I'll go bail," laughed Alan.

"Hooray!" shouted Sandy, waving his legs frantically. "What shall we call it?"

"Let's call it the Rob Roy Clan," said Alan.

"Hooray!" roared Sandy again.

"If we're a Clan, we'll have to have a chief," said Jean, "and if the Chief bids us do anything,
we'll just have to do it. That's the way it was in the real Rob Roy Clan. Father said so."

"Jock thought of it first. Let him be Chief," said Alan.

"No!" cried Jean promptly. "Are you thinking I'll put my head in a bag like that, and he my
own brother? 'Deed, I'd never get a lick of work out of him on Saturday if I did! Na, na, lads!
Whoever's Chief, it won't be Jock."

"Maybe you'd like to be the Chief yourself," retorted Jock, "but it's enough to be bossed by
you at home! Besides, whoever heard of a girl being Chief, anyway?"

"Alan can be Chief," said Jean, and so the matter was settled.

"If I'm Chief," said Alan, "you'll all have to swear an oath of fealty to me."

"What's an oath of fealty?" Jock demanded suspiciously, and Jean added in a shocked voice,
"Alan, you'd never be asking us to take the name of the Lord in vain!"

"It's not that kind of an oath," laughed Alan. "You just have to vow to obey the Chief in everything."
Then an idea popped into his head. "In a real Clan they are all kinsmen, but here's Sandy,
and he's neither Campbell nor McGregor. We'll have to make a blood brother of him before he
can join."

"What's a blood brother? How do you make 'em?" asked Sandy.

"I'll show you," said Alan. He drew his knife from his pocket and while the other three watched
him in breathless admiration, he made a little cut in his wrist and immediately passed the
knife to Jock. "You do the same," he commanded.

Jock obeyed his Chief and passed the knife to Jean, who promptly followed his example.

"Now, Sandy," said Alan.

Sandy hated the sight of blood, and he was a little pale under his freckles as he shut his
eyes and jabbed himself gingerly with the point. Then Alan took a drop of blood from each wrist
and mingled them with a drop from Sandy's.

"Now, Sandy," he said, as he stirred the compound into a gory paste, "you repeat after me,
'My foot is on my native heath, my name it is McGregor.'" Sandy obeyed with solemnity, and,
this important ceremony over, Alan pronounced him a member of the Clan in good and regular
standing.

Then, by the Chief's orders, Jean, Jock, and Sandy, each in turn placed their hands under Alan's
hand, while they promised to obey him without question in all matters pertaining to the Clan.

"Only," said Jean, "you mustn't tell us to do anything wrong."

"I won't," promised Alan. And so the Rob Roy Clan came into being.

Alan took command at once. "We must have a sign," he said. "Just like Clan Alpine in 'The Lady
of the Lake.' Go, my henchmen," he cried, striking a noble attitude, and waving his hand toward
the forest, "bring hither sprays of the Evergreen Pine, and we'll stick 'em in our bonnets
just like Roderick Dhu and his men. Roderick Vich Alpine Dhu, ho! iero!"

The two boys instantly disappeared down the hole in the rock on this errand, leaving Jean and
Alan to guard the cave.

VIII. THE POACHERS

While all these things were happening, Angus Niel had returned from his errand across the little
lake, and was making his way slowly toward home, following the course of the stream. As he
came near the fall he stopped and sniffed. There was certainly a most appetizing smell of bacon
in the air!

"It can't be!" he said aloud to himself. He sniffed again, and his face turned purple with
rage. "Meat," he snorted, "as I live! The bold rascals! Poaching in broad daylight and cooking
their game right under my nose!" It wasn't under his nose at all, of course, for the rock was
far above him, and it wasn't game either.

"I'll soon cure them of that trick," he muttered, as he climbed silently over the rocks and
gazed searchingly about. It was not long before he caught sight of a thin curl of blue smoke
rising from the top of the rock.

"Aha!" he growled under his breath, "I've got you now, my bold gentlemen! I'll teach you to
flaunt your thefts in the face of the Laird's own gamekeeper, once I get my hands on you!"
At once he began nosing about the rocks in search of the path by which the poachers had climbed
the cliff.

Meanwhile Sandy and Jock had found the sprays of the Evergreen Pine and were on their way back
to the cave with them, when Jock suddenly seized Sandy by the arm and ducked down behind a
boulder. There, not a hundred feet away, stood Angus Niel gazing up at the top of the rock!
His back was toward them, and the noise of the waterfall had drowned out the sound of voices,
or they surely would not have escaped his notice. As it was, they slipped behind the fall,
whisked into the hole, and began climbing the secret stair like two frightened squirrels. An
instant later they startled Alan and Jean, who were in the cave, by dashing in after them on
all fours.

"What on earth is the matter?" cried Jean.

"Matter, indeed!" gasped Jock, out of breath. "Angus Niel is down there, and he's seen the
smoke! He almost saw us, but we just gave him the slip and got by."

"Keep out of sight, all of you," commanded the Chief, "and leave him to me."

The obedient Clan flattened themselves against the back of the cave, while Alan crept to the
edge of the rock on his stomach like a lizard, and, lying there, was able to peep through the
thick screen of leaves and see what was going on below. The gamekeeper was still scrambling
over the rocks and looking, as Alan said afterward, "for all the world like a dog who had lost
the trail and was trying to find it again."

As the lookout was well screened, Alan soon allowed the rest of the Clan to join him, and Angus
Niel little guessed, as he prowled about over the rocks, that every move was watched from above.
Despairing of finding the path, he decided at last to get up a tree and make an observation.
He selected a large pine which grew near the cave and began to climb.

So long as he stood on the ground, the children knew it was impossible for Angus to see them,
but when he began to climb, they scuttled back into the cave as fast as they could go.

Climbing is hard work for a fat man, and the gamekeeper found himself covered with pitch before
he had gone more than halfway up, but he puffed on in spite of difficulties and at last reached
a point from which he could look directly across the surface of the rock, but from which the
cave was entirely hidden behind a projection in the wall of the cliff.

Angus saw what he supposed to be the whole shelf of the rock, and he saw that there was no
one there. He could see the fire and the frying-pan, the egg shells lying about, and even the
portion of bacon that Jean had not cooked. They were all in full view, but apparently the poachers
had gone away into the woods, leaving their airy camp deserted. There was no one there; of
that he felt, certain.

"I'll just give'em a surprise," thought the gamekeeper to himself. "If they found a way up,
I can, too. I'll help myself to a snack of that bacon, and if they come back and find me--well,
I have my gun with me and I don't like being interrupted at my meals."

He backed down the tree like a fat cat, and made a desperate search for the path, and this
time he actually succeeded in finding it. He chuckled to himself as he plunged into the passage
and began to climb. He had gone about a third of the way up, when he reached the narrowest
point of the channel and tried to force himself through, but the space was so small that no
matter how much he tried, he could not get by. Play at several species of the genus, however, the Aëranthus
Rooted in assimilation a much more substantial role exist in the same individual the vegetative
parts almost exclusively from a powerful, leafy root system, while the leaves omissions and the strain
is reduced to tiny dimensions. These strange shapes are no doubt on the principle of reduction
due to the surface transpire that so many wonderful plant forms has caused (8). The reduction of
vegetative parts assimilating to a root system but for us, therefore, of particular interest because
the same, except for aquatic plants, bare only in the epiphytes and the inhabitants of them as
similar rock walls could come for training.

From personal experience I know of only two species belonging here, Aëranthus funalis, which
I first cultivated in Trinidad, later growing wild in Venezuela saw, and not a particular Art, of
which I found a single small specimen near Blumenau.

Aëranthus funalis consists of a thick tuft of quill thick, cylindrical, to a large Part of free hanging
roots from a very tiny scales covered by brown nodules arise. Once or twice a year rises from
the base of the shoot, an almost needle-thin, leafless lateral shoots with large, yellowish-green
flowers, which after Fruit ripening, or, if no fertilization occurred, dried up after the withering
of the flowers and falls off. The activity of the assimilating shoot parts is quite insignificant,
the plant or more for their food almost entirely dependent on the powerful root system, which
virtue of his velamen the water absorbs the organic matter from the inorganic raw material produced,
stored up the surplus of water and organic products, in a word All the vegetative functions of
stem, root and leaf into one product.

Their manifold functions in accordance with, the root of Aëranthus funalis differs in some Points
from that of leafy orchids from, in connection with assimilation is their much greater abundance
of chlorophyll, the lower thickness of its velamen, which also shine through in the dry state, the
green fabric leaves; the needs of Wasserregulirung correspond to water and peculiar cells through-passages
for gases, which seems exactly the same meaning for transpiration, such as the stomata belongs,
and the naked Eye, especially after moistening, white stripes represent (9), which completely impermeable
to water , while gases pass through them unimpeded. The accumulation of reserve starch is place
in the deep areas of the bark parenchyma. Finally, it should be noted that the insignificant Development
of shoot parts according to the vascular bundles are much reduced, while the larger as a result
of the free, hanging Wachsthumsmodus of most members of the root system Requirements to train
and bending strength due to strong thickening of the inner and velamen Endodermis, and by strong
sclerosis of the interstitial tissue in the vascular bundle is enough.

Much more leaf-like than in Ae. funalis are the roots of the otherwise very similar to Ae. Fasciola
from Guatemala, which recently subjected to scrutiny by Janczewski were, and what a few Brazilian
species, of which I Alcoholmaterial my H. SCHENCK friends owe join. These species are the
roots flat and a very similar dorsiventrality as leaves provided. The bottom, by a strong midrib
is traversed, with the velamen and the stomata the Pneumathoden and the top is flat, green, devoid
of velamen and performed primarily the functions of carbon assimilation.

The dorsiventrality is, after Janczewski, in Ae. Fasciola as independent of external Circumstances
such as leaves. The roots of AE. funalis other hand, are in the suspended state Built radially,
while, in case they crawl on the bark, her velamen at the bottom something powerful and thin-walled.
A similar work, the light-related dorsiventrality comes from the investigations Janczewski's the
aerial roots of several, but not all epiphytic Orchids.

8. The means which enable the epiphytes of the first group to thrive on tree bark, have been said
for the most part those which most atmospheric plants get: planar propagation, accumulation
of water, strong design of the cuticle. These protective agents are but in this group, with the
exception of the pronounced shadow ferns, perfectly formed as the majority of epiphytes not belonging
here, which provide by special devices, a more abundant nutrient solution. Only with representatives
this group, but only a few, we find the ability to major water loss to endure without damage.
We also found only in this lowest level of Epiphytismus here and there, especially in orchids,
strong reduction of the surface transpire as a protective agent trained on peculiarities in the
leafless Aëranthus species, which are the most striking Adjustment within the first group provide. Finally
it should be emphasized that by far the great majority of epiphytic orchids and aroids with velamen
exclusively on the nutrients in the cortex are dependent, so that the latter almost as a peculiarity
the first group can be considered.

On the whole, although the protective agents are usually combinirt
each other, very lush plant life not at the expense of humus in the
cortex and located in the moss nutrient solution possible, almost
All the species are herbs in the first group of low or medium size,
and the few shrubs thrive in the shade on very chapped or mossy bark.

The most impressive associated species known to me here is the South Brazilian Philodendron cannifolium,
that thanks to the powerful training and the slimy contents of his intercellular system, enormous
Amounts of rain and Thauwasser stores up and the dimensions of this plant but under the epiphytes
of the other groups are not only very common, but are often far exceeded.

III. Second group (10).

The root system consists of epiphytes, not only in monocots, but also in the Dicotyledons,
except during the germination period, exclusively from adventitious
roots - a direct effect of the substrate, similar to how it shows
in Europe, in trees, growing on walls or rocks.

Where the adventitious roots of epiphytes are very long, it may happen that, without significantly
geotropic to be back and get back on the ground, from which at any rate an advantage for the
plant grows, such behavior can be, for example, in large Cactaceae
in Symphysia guadelupensis, Schlegelia parasitica observed.

What with the last mentioned epiphytes only by chance and by no means always happens, constant in others
by some of the roots have expressed positive geotropism; thus acts
include the shrubby Rubiaceae Hillia parasitica, however, it seemed,
is connected late with the ground.

The location is perfect and is adapted Blakea laurifolia Naud., a beautiful shrub-to tree-like
Melastomacee the Lesser Antilles, from whose roots spring from short trunk, which are partly very
positive geotropic and grow relatively quickly to the ground, partly lack of geotropism seemingly
and form a fine, tangled web to the supporting tree trunk.

In the mentioned cases, despite great effort of material still achieved relatively little; the
connection of the epiphytes to the ground is still imperfect, and therefore we see the aforementioned
Plants grow to only humus-rich substrate in wet locations.

These plants are at a lower level of adaptation and its remaining roots have essentially the
Properties retain who approached her on the floor growing parent.

In other plants, however, is the combination of epiphytic and terrestrial life, become, thanks
to the differentiation of the root system, a much more perfect.

As with the last-mentioned species, certain roots are characterized by positive geotropism, while
the others are affected by the gravity does not noticeably, even at the Blakea indicated other
differences are very much sharper. The positive geotropic roots grow extremely rapidly until they reach
the ground, and are by their histological structure to manage the nutrient solution perfectly
adapted, while nichtgeotropischen the tendrils, are extraordinarily resistant adhesive organs
of far lesser Length pose.

The above-mentioned differentiation is restricted to the adventitious roots, it is missing
all of the main root and their branches that go way early to reason
or to remain very small.

Adhesion and Nährwurzeln are not connected by transitions and train a member of the root system to
one form or another, regardless of external circumstances, where an adhesive root randomly into a humus-rich
substrate arrives, she developed a number of secondary roots, without lose their characteristic
properties. Both roots arising from the Monocotyledons of the tribe or its branches, while
the Clusiaceen the branches of the Nährwurzeln sometimes the character of detention have roots.

The
adventitious roots are very negative heliotropic, however, not noticeably geotropic. They have a
slow, limited longitudinal growth, only a few plants to two feet long and die, like tendrils,
down, if not fixed soon with an object come into contact.

Have they reached a post, what with their negative geotropism and of life of the epiphytes usually
happens, they shall, at the same density and curving tendrils around the same, sometimes two
or three turns of forming, if the detected object is thin. The thickness of the adhesive roots varies
between that of a Quill (aroids) and a strong finger (Clusia).

The epiphyte depends, as a vine on their vines, to his detention roots, which have consequently
have a firm grip on the base and have significant tensile strength. The former condition is therefore
satisfied that crawl the adhesive pressed against the irregularities
of the root bark tight, the latter, at least in youth, increased by
root hairs and at least one half-turn form the subject matter covered,
and the tensile strength of them is given by that its axile vascular
bundles, respectively.

(Clusia) significantly and the growth of the wood secundare of highly lignified, thick-walled
fibers exist, while sparse, the conductive elements and thin. How perfect is the attachment, it appears,
if one makes the attempt to the epiphyte to tear from its base, the same is possible in the larger
forms of the Individuals do not leave by the adventitious roots stretch very hard and almost indestructible
are.

The Nährwurzeln are in some ways, similar to the aerial rootlets, very negative, others have
not heliotropic, they are always very positive and have geotropic an unrestricted and rapid
longitudinal growth, so that they even have a more than 100 feet above can connect the ground
growing epiphyte with the latter. In its above-ground part of most simple, they branch abundantly in
the soil.

They differ in their anatomical structure much of the roots from prison by predominantly with
them the conductive elements are during the mechanical step back strong and, in particular, Clusia,
relatively little thickened are. Also be emphasized that, at least among the Monocotyledons,
the vascular bundles in the Nährwurzeln is far more developed in proportion to the cortex than
in the adventitious roots. Nährwurzeln those that hang in the air, is the necessary bending
strength by a peripheral sclerenchyma or Collenchymring awarded (Clusia rosea, brasil. and West
Indian. Philodendron species).

The monocotyledonous terms of the second group are, as far as my observations, all the genera Carludovica,
Anthurium and Philodendron.

Carludovica Plumieri is a slender, often several meters high, epiphytic,
often on the Dominica climbing on the trunks of forest trees.

His quill thick Nährwurzeln arise from the nodes and run in bunches, the bark is pressed straight
down, while the also numerous adventitious roots that reach to two
feet long, perpendicular to the root grow from Carludovica and grip
the support set.

The cross-sectional image, as Figures 2 and 3 (Pl. III) show in nutrients and adventitious roots
very unequal. The vascular bundles of the former is very thick and consists mainly of very numerous
and wide-lumen vascular and filter unit, which at the periphery of
the Monocotylenwurzeln typical arrangement show, while they are inside
randomly mixed; the interstitial tissue is poorly developed and consists
of fibrous, sclerotic cells.

Quite unlike Nährwurzeln sees the cross section from prison roots. The vascular bundles is thin and consists
chiefly of the very thick-walled, heavily lignified, fibrous Cells, while having the container and
filter unit only a few elements and narrow lumina, within of the
peripheral, polyarch ring, very occasionally in the interstitial tissue
are massive.

Much like Carludovica behave different West Indian species of the genus Anthurium (11) with the insignificant
difference for our question, that their vascular bundles normal structure
has, here are the provided with a long stem climbing Anth. palmatum
and short stocky, certain species (Plate III, 4 and 5) with a huge
rosette of leaves, on the Dominica is common.

This lack of velamen roots, unlike those of some Anthurium species of the first group.

Behaves somewhat differently frequent in the forests of Trinidad Philodendron, with powerful,
tuberous root by its Nährwurzeln hang freely. At the same genus is also probably also the epiphytic
aroids, the extremely long, also free to air Nährwurzeln growing in Santa Catharina, under the
name "Cipó nero" as cords and the like using .

See The roots of these species differ from those of the genus Anthurium by possession from Oelgängen
in the bark, and especially those of a peripheral fibrous layer, which them as a result of the
freely hanging Wachsthumsmodus gives necessary bending strength. Some climbing aroids of the
Brazilian and West Indian jungle are on the transition stage to Epiphytismus by often germinate in the
ground, its trunk but later at the base dies, so behave in particular types of Philodendron, Monstera
deliciosa. In such a transition stage is also Vanilla planifolia, the long out of their nodes,
cylindrical, positively geotropic Nährwurzeln and short, flat, non-geotropic adventitious roots
produced; anatomically I have not compared these two root forms.

The most distinguished corresponding to the second group dicot plant is Clusia rosea, which Life
story I could submit to the West Indies to scrutiny.

Clusia rosea is a rich foliage, and medium sized, epiphytic tree,
whose free-growing Root downward in an often continues over armsdicke,
apparent main root, which most, if not always, the bark of the host
tree pressed tightly vertically to the ground goes.

The apparent main root arise numerous, thinner secondary roots, the All the crawling on the
bark and partly also at right angles or obliquely to the ground To
grow for the most part, however, are horizontal and clasping the stem
firmly supportive.

Instead of an individual by its thickness and excellent long roots that are sometimes several, of all
the extremely positive geotropic.

The root structure just discussed make, especially in older specimens, only a portion of the root
system of leafy branches from the epiphytes dar. forth numerous adventitious roots, which are
partly designed as a short but strong adhesive organs, in part, on the other hand perpendicular grow
down to the ground and reach an often enormous length. We therefore find among these, the leafy
branches springing roots, a similar differentiation, As with the
aforementioned Carludovica and aroids, and are also the same as Nährwurzeln
and different adhesive roots.

 They pulled it up under the shelter
of the dead pine, anchored it by a stone, and cautiously made their way into the woods.

They were now in a very wild section of the mountains, where it seemed as if no one had ever
been since the beginning of the world.

"Just hear the stillness," whispered Jean, keeping close to Jock. There was a sort of trail
leading back into the woods, which looked as if it might have been made by wild animals going
to the lake for a drink. This they followed for some distance until it became indistinct, and
then Alan called the Clan together for counsel.

"We'll go just a little farther," he said, "and then, if we don't see any sign of the place,
it may be best to go back, for it is easy to get lost in these woods. We are going east now
and luckily the sun is shining. When we do turn back, we must keep the sun behind us and we
can't help coming out somewhere on the lake. Remember the pewit call if we lose sight of each
other."

They resumed their stealthy walk through the woods, and a few rods farther on came to a wide
open space which sloped eastward for some distance down the mountain-side. Here they paused.

"We're getting a good way from the boat," said Jean.

"Yes," said Alan, "and I am just wondering whether we'd better go any farther. We don't want
to cross this open space, and I see no sign of Angus's storehouse. I hate to give up, though,
for we must be very near it." He searched in every direction with his eyes, and suddenly exclaimed
under his breath, "Look there!"

"Where?" breathed the Clan, rigid with excitement.

"Do you see that pile of rocks?" said Alan, pointing into the woods beyond the clearing.

"Yes," said Jock, "but there are rocks all around. I don't see that they're any different from
others."

"Maybe not," said Alan, "but I see something that looks like the corner of a hunter's shelter
sticking out behind that big boulder, and I say, let's skirt around this open place and see."

"Do you want us all to go?" asked Sandy, hoping the Chief would say no.

"You stay here," Alan answered, to his great relief, "and Jean, you come a little farther with
us. Then you and Sandy can keep out of sight and watch. If you see a man, keep still in your
places and give the pewit call. Jock and I will go on around the clearing and get a better
look at those rocks."

Sandy crouched down in the bracken, and two or three hundred feet farther on Jean stopped also,
while Alan and Jock cautiously crept on toward their goal, and, by making a wide detour, approached
the rocks from the north instead of the west. As they neared them, it was plain that Alan was
right. There really was a shelter built against an overhanging rock and almost concealed from
view by pine boughs which formed a screen before it. Little by little the boys crept nearer
and nearer, stopping every few steps to be sure there was no sign of life about the place.
At last they were within a few feet of the rude camp. The shelter was scarcely more than a
hole under the rocks, but there was a blackened spot where there had been a fire, a few pans
were standing about, and in one corner a pile of evergreen boughs was covered with well-cured
deer-skins. A fresh hide ready to cure was spread out on the rocks near by.

"This is the place," whispered Jock. "There is the skin of the stag. Now what are you going
to do?" For answer Alan slipped from behind the rocks, crept stealthily into the camp, and
on the underside of the rock wrote in big letters with blue chalk

  ANGUS NIEL
  POACHER
  Your sin has found you out!
  R. R. C.

Then he crawled swiftly back out of sight and, followed by Jock, made his way as fast as he
could toward Jean's hiding-place. To Jean the time that they were gone seemed hours long. The
place was lonely, and she was afraid, not only of their finding the man at home in his wild
lodge, but even of brownies and elves.

A rabbit stuck his ears up over a nearby log and scuttled away when he saw her. The leaves
made a lonely sound as they rustled over her head, and when at last she saw a black object
moving about among the trees at some distance beyond the rock-pile, it is not surprising that
she immediately gave the pewit call, loud and clear.

The boys heard it and instantly vanished behind some bushes. The dark object moving among the
trees seemed to hear it too and, springing forward, came bounding toward the rocks, barking
as it came. Jean was not much less anxious when she knew for certain that it was a dog, for
a watch dog in that lonely place might be quite as dangerous as a wolf. Moreover, she soon
saw, a little distance behind the dog, a man with a gun on his shoulder. She saw the dog reach
the camp and go sniffing about on the rocks, and her heart almost stood still as it gave a
deep howl and started away as if it scented game.

"He's on the trail of Alan and Jock," thought Jean, wringing her hands. "Oh, what shall I do?
The man will surely follow, for he'll think the dog is after game." She sprang to her feet
and ran back to Sandy.

"Come quick," she said in a low voice. "The dog smells them; we must get into the boat and
have it ready for the boys to jump into. There is not a moment to lose." She sped past him
as she spoke, and Sandy came galloping after.

Alan and Jock, who had seen and heard all that Jean had, were now tearing at top speed through
the woods and knew from answering whistles that Jean and Sandy were on the way to the boat.

The man had by this time reached the camp and was staring at the blue chalk-marks on the rock,
as if unable to believe his own eyes. He did not stop there long. He saw at once that an enemy
had found his hiding-place, and that the dog was on his trail. Leaping down the rocks, he started
across the clearing on a run toward the lake, his gun in his hand. Jock and Alan realized that
they could hardly reach the landing-place before the dog did, so they changed their course
and veered a little to the north, thinking that in this way they stood more chance of concealment
and that they could signal the boat and get aboard in a less conspicuous place.

By this dodge the dog lost the scent of the boys and, nosing the ground, found the trail of
Sandy and Jean. Baying frightfully he came bounding through the underbrush and arrived at the
landing just in time to see Sandy push the boat from the shore with Jean in the bow. Furious
at being cheated of his prey, the dog ran back and forth on the shore, making mad leaps in
the direction of the boat and barking as if possessed.

"Oh, where are the boys?" cried the distracted Jean. They lingered in an agony of suspense,
not daring to leave until they saw that Jock and Alan were safe, and then from a little distance
up the shore came the pewit call. Sandy rose to the emergency and, pulling frantically at the
oars, succeeded in reaching the point from which the call seemed to come. The scared faces
of Jock and Alan rose from the bracken, and in another moment they had leaped into the boat,
nearly upsetting it as they did so. Alan seized an oar, and he and Sandy together got the boat
out of sight behind a bend in the shore. Here they hid among the bushes on the bank until they
saw the man appear at the landing-place, scan the lake carefully, and then go back into the
woods, calling the dog to go with him. Even then they were afraid to stir for they did not
know whether he had gone back to camp or was stalking about among the trees searching for them.

They waited for what seemed a week but saw nothing further of the man, and when at last they
heard the report of a gun and the barking of a dog far away down the mountain, they felt safe.
He was evidently looking in another direction for the intruders, and at once Alan gave the
word to go back to their own side of the lake. They skirted the shores, keeping a sharp lookout
all the while, and at length reached the landing-place. The weary members of the Clan breathed
a sigh of relief as they found themselves safe on their own ground again, arid their spirits rose.

Jock told what Alan had written on the rock, and Alan was so much impressed by that achievement
that he took out the blue chalk and on a rock by the tarn wrote "Here Angus Niel, gamekeeper
and poacher, shot a stag"; and on the stone where the boat had been, he put the mystic initials
"R. R. C."

"There," said Alan, pausing to admire his handiwork, "that'll keep him guessing, and scared too."

"What can we do next?"

"Take away his boat," said Jean promptly.

"Good idea!" cried Alan.

"Where can we hide it?" asked Jock.

"I'm mortal hungry," said Sandy. "Couldn't we eat first?"

"No food until this job is done," said the Chief firmly. "We'll never have another chance when
we know where the other man and Angus both are. It's now or never!"

"But where shall we hide it?" demanded Jock again.

"I'll tell you," cried Jean, her eyes dancing with mischief. "We can carry it to the burn and
float it down to the cave!"

This was a stroke of genius, no less, and every member of the Clan looked upon Jean with respect
bordering upon awe. At the point where the lake emptied into the burn there were loose rocks,
about which the water rushed in a swift cataract, but, below, the current flowed more gently
toward the fall. It was deep only in spots where the trout loved to hide, but it was not a
stream anywhere in its course upon which one would launch a boat for pleasure. The rocks were
so near the surface that the weight of even one person might ground it, but afloat and empty
it might be carried clear to the rocks above the cave. The Clan considered the plan carefully,
standing upon the rocky banks.

"How would we guide it?" asked Sandy doubtfully.

"There's a rope on the end of the boat," said Jean promptly, "and we could push it off with
sticks if it got stuck."

"Come on," cried Alan, and the four plotters rushed bask to the lake and pulled the boat out
of the water. Alan took the prow and Jock took the stern, while Sandy and Jean supported it
on each side, and in this way, after many struggles, they succeeded in carrying it to a place
below the rapids where they dared launch it.

"I'll hold the rope," said Alan, "and you, Sandy, take an oar and go down the other side of
the stream, so you can push it off if it gets stuck on that side."

"How'll I get across?" asked Sandy.

This was a poser at first, but Alan found a way.

"Get into the boat," he said, "and we'll push it across where there aren't any stones sticking
up. You can pole it across with your oar, and I'll keep hold of the rope."

Sandy jumped in at once, and the boat, in spite of some swirling, was finally near enough to
the opposite bank so he could jump out. This he did, taking the oar with him. It was an exciting
journey down stream, for the boat bumped against rocks and caught on fallen trees, and it was
a good hour before the children, tired out but triumphant, finally dragged it out of the water
just above the falls.

"If we had our rope, we could drag it to the edge of the cliff and let it down in front of
the cave," cried Jean in another flash of inspiration, and Sandy instantly rushed down the
rock, made the necessary detour, and climbed the secret stair to the cave. He then whistled,
and three heads appeared over the top of the cliff.

"I'll throw up the rope and when you let the boat down, I'll steady it," said Sandy.

"Heave away," cried Alan, and after a few trials the rope came flying up on the cliff and was
soon looped around the boat. Then the three braced their feet against the rocks and slowly
lowered the boat by the rope fastened to the prow, and by their own rope, while Sandy steadied
it below. They threw down the rope-end after it, and a few moments later the rapturous Clan
hauled the boat into the cave! They sat in it to eat their luncheon and were so lost in admiration
of their enterprise and their booty that they did not start home until the level rays of the
sun warned them that it was late.

XI. ANGUS NIEL AND THE CANNY CLAN

The days that followed were days of stirring adventure to the Rob Roy Clan, and days of continuous
and surprising misery to Angus Niel. Never in his history as gamekeeper of Glen Cairn had he
had such experiences. The very trees in the woods seemed to be bewitched. Wherever he went
he was followed by some mysterious power that seemed to know his every movement. If he killed
any game, the fact was advertised and the place marked by signs in blue chalk. Not only that,
but the very path of his approach to the spot was marked by pointing arrows and some such legend
as "This way to the glen where Angus Niel killed a deer" would decorate a neighboring rock.
On other rocks appeared pertinent questions addressed to him. "How much did you get for the
stag?" was one of them, and there were also queries as to where he found the best market for
game. He was kept so busy searching the forest for these incriminating signs and rubbing them
out, that he could not follow his regular rounds. Even this did not avail, for if he erased
them on one day, it was but a matter of time before the letters appeared again as fresh and
blue as ever. Nor was this all. He was haunted by a wailing voice which reached him even in
the remote fastnesses of the forest. He was sure to hear it if he ventured into the neighborhood
of the waterfall, and he usually avoided that region as if it harbored a pestilence.

Once late in the afternoon he shot two hares and hid them under some rocks, intending to carry
them across the lake in the morning, but when he went for them, they had disappeared altogether,
and above the place where they had been was written in blue chalk, "Sacred to the memory of
two hares, killed and hidden here by Angus Niel on June 12th."

When he saw this epitaph, Angus's hair really stood on end with fright, and on the day he found
that the boat was gone, leaving no trace, he became absolutely terror-stricken. He sought for
it behind every rock and in every likely nook about the lake, consuming days in the quest,
and was appalled on his next trip thither to find all the incidents of his search faithfully
recorded on the rocks, each one signed with the mystic initials R. R. C.

It took ingenuity, persistence, and some degree of danger on the part of the clan to accomplish
these things, but one could depend upon finding these qualities in any Campbell or McGregor,
and Sandy, having been made a blood brother, faithfully lived up to the duties it entailed.
He became an expert detective and sleuth-hound, discovering and reporting Angus's movements
each day to the enterprising Clan and its resourceful Chief.

At Alan's suggestion, the Clan took for its motto "We must be canny," and canny they certainly
were. They even changed their programme from day to day, and in this way just when Angus felt
he was about to discover his tormentors and know if they were human and not witches, they found
some new method of annoyance and he was all at sea again.

Once they gave him a respite of nearly a week and Angus, having erased many signs and finding
no new ones, was beginning to think his troubles were over, when suddenly arrows bearing bits
of paper inviting him to visit the fall would suddenly drop at his feet. It had taken the Clan
nearly all their spare time for the week to make the bows and arrows, by which this wonder
was accomplished. Meanwhile they had lived like lords, feasting upon trout and the generous
store of provisions with which Alan continued to supply the cave. They even began to see how
it was possible for Rob Roy and his men to live upon forest fare, for the pool below the fall
was a wonderful fishing-hole, and small game was plentiful if they had cared to become poachers
themselves.

On one red-letter day, they roasted the two hares which Angus had killed, and cooked potatoes
in the ashes. Each day was filled with fresh adventures, and the wild outdoor life agreed with
Alan so well that his thin cheeks began to fill out and glow with healthy color and it was
not long before he looked as sturdy and strong as Jock himself.

It was curious that what Alan gained in flesh and spirits, Angus Niel at the same time seemed
to lose. He was so worried by these strange visitations that his round eyes took on a haunted
expression, and Sandy observed that he kept looking over his shoulder as if he thought some
one were following him, even when he walked the village streets.

He dared not stay away from the forest lest others should discover the dreadful blue signs
before he did, and at the same time he was afraid to go in. He swung like a pendulum between
these two difficulties and grew daily more nervous and unhappy. By the end of June he had lost
ten pounds of flesh as well as the money he might have made out of poaching and selling the
game. By the middle of July he was so haggard that people began to remark on his appearance.
There seemed no way out of his troubles but to lie about them, and soon wild stories were circulated
through the village about the haunted forest and its dangers.

Women were warned not to let the children stray into the woods lest they be carried away by
witches or water cows, and it was also reported that a gang of poachers of a particularly blood-thirsty
character infested the region, carrying off game and property and leaving no trace. Angus had
been watching this band of desperadoes for some time, he said, and knew there were at least
twenty of them who would stop at nothing.

With Angus's tale of the mysterious loss of his boat, the excitement reached a climax, and
there was talk of organizing an armed band of men from the village to protect the woods and
rid the neighborhood of the bandits. The people were surprised that Angus himself should oppose
this plan, but as he was gamekeeper and in authority, the matter was dropped. To Angus's horror,
however, these rumors and events were all faithfully recorded on rocks not far from his own
home soon after, and he realized that to the very doors of his own house he was pursued by
the same mysterious and vigilant power. It was then that he lost his appetite, and if the Clan
could have followed him into his home and seen him look under his bed before he got into it
at night, their joy would have been full.

The wild stories he told had the effect of keeping every one else out of the forest and made
the Clan more than ever free to stalk their prey without fear of discovery. In this occupation
several exciting weeks passed by, and then there came an unhappy surprise to the Clan, and
it was not Angus Niel who sprang it upon them either.

One morning in late July, Alan came up the road toward the little gray house, where he was
now so much at home, looking very glum indeed. Sandy was with him, wearing a face as solemn
as a funeral procession. Jock and Jean saw them coming and hailed them with a shout, and Tam,
who had not quite recovered from his injury, came dashing down the brae on three legs to greet
them. Even Tam's joyful bark did not lift the shadow from their faces.

Jean cried out from the top of the brae, "Whatever can be the matter with you? You're looking
as miserable as two hens in a rainstorm!"

"Trouble enough," answered Sandy, and Jean and Jock at once came hurrying down the slope to
hear the bad news. They met at the river-side, and Sandy, who was bursting to tell it, cried
out, "What do you think? Alan's got to go home! His mother's sent for him!" One look at Alan's
melancholy face confirmed this dreadful statement and the gloom instantly became general.

The Clan sat down on the ground in a depressed circle to discuss the matter and its bearing
on their plans.

"Don't you think your mother would let you stay if you should ask her?" suggested Jock.

"No," said Alan, with sad conviction. "She said I was to come at once, and I'll have to start
this very afternoon. I'm to drive down to the boat and get to Glasgow by water; I'll spend
the night there and go on to London in the morning."

"Sal, but you'll be seeing a lot of the world," said Jock. "I wish I were going with you."

"I wish you all were," said Alan.

"We'll likely be having more traveling than we want," said Jean, "when we have to give up the
wee bit hoosie and go out and walk the world." She looked up at the little gray house as she
spoke, and her eyes filled with tears.

"It's the end of the Clan; that's what it is," said Sandy with deepening despondency.

"Oh, come now!" said Alan. "It's not so bad as all that, and I'm surely coming back next summer.
I know my mother'll let me, for she'll see how much good it's done me to be here. Just look
at that," he added, baring his arm and knotting his biceps. "Climbing around the cave and chasing
after Angus Niel have made me as tough as a knot. She won't know me when she sees me."

"I wonder if we shall know you the next time we see you, if we ever do," said Jean.

"Ho!" said Alan, trying to smile gayly, "of course you will! I'll have a sprig of the evergreen
pine and give the pewit call, and then you'll be sure."

"What good will your coming back next summer do us?" said Jock. "We shan't be here to see you!
Our leases run out in October, and nobody knows where we'll go after that! We've got to move
out, so the Auld Laird can have more space to raise game for Angus Niel to kill," he finished
bitterly.

There seemed no way of brightening this sad prospect, and the Clan sat for a few moments in
mournful silence. Alan tried hard to think of something comforting to say.

"I'll tell you what," he exclaimed at length. "We can still be a Clan, whether we see each
other or not. We'll remember we're all blood brothers just the same."

"And that you are our Chief," added Jean, trying to look cheerful.

"Can't we go back to the cave just once more?" said Sandy.

"I've got to be at the bridge at one o'clock," said Alan. "I've said good-bye to Eppie, and
she is packing my things, and putting up a lunch, so I don't have to do anything but step into
the carriage when I get there. What time is it now?"

Jean flew up the slope to the house and called back from the door, "It's ten o'clock."

"Come on, then, my merry men!" cried Alan, and the four started off at a brisk trot, looking
anything but merry as they went.

"We shan't want to come here any more," said Jock, when they reached the cave. "So we may as
well take everything away."

"Oh," said Alan, "something might happen to keep you in the Glen Easig. You never can tell.
You'd better take back the pots and pans, but leave the wood, and then if we are here next
summer, it will be all ready for cooking a jolly old mess of trout."

"Whatever shall we do with the boat?" asked Jean. This was a conundrum, but the Chief, as usual,
was equal to the occasion.

"There's only one thing we can do," he said. "It will just dry up and fall to pieces up here;
we'll let it down over the rock by the ropes and leave it in the pool. Then when Angus finds
it, he'll be perfectly sure he was bewitched and be more afraid of the falls than ever!"

They worked hurriedly, for the time was short, and in another hour the boat was floating in
the fishing-pool, securely tied to a pine tree on the bank. They packed pots and pans in the
basket and lowered it over the rock by the rope, and when everything was done, Alan took the
blue chalk and drew a sprig of pine on the wall of the cave with the initials R. R. C. beside
it. The four children then scrambled down the secret stairway, feeling as if they had said
good-bye forever to a dear friend. When they reached the little gray house, they left the basket
in the kitchen, and the entire Clan walked with Alan back to the bridge, where they found the
carriage waiting.

Alan made short work of his good-byes. He shook hands all round and sprang quickly into the
carriage, and as it rattled away with him down the road, he stood up, waving his bonnet with
the spray of evergreen pine in it and whistling the pewit call.

"Dagon't," said Sandy, when the carriage passed out of sight around a bend in the road. "Dagon't,
we'll never find another like the Chief." If Jean and Jock had felt able to say anything, they
would have echoed the statement. As it was, Sandy drew his kilmarnock bonnet over his eyes,
thrust his hands into his pockets, and started dejectedly toward his own house, leaving Jean
and Jock, equally miserable, to return alone to the wee bit hoosie on the brae.

XII. NEWS

The rest of the week seemed at least a month long to the lonely twins. Sandy came to see them,
to be sure, but with the passing of the Chief, the flavor seemed gone from the play, and the
Clan made no further expeditions after Angus Niel.

"He can just kill all the game he wants to," said Jean. "It's the worse for the Auld Laird,
I doubt, but who cares for that, so long as he leaves Tam alone and keeps away from here? It's
nothing to me."

Their father had been so taken up with his work and with turning over in his mind plans for
the future, when they should be "walking the world," that he paid little attention to their
punishment of Angus Niel, about which he knew little and cared less. He was absorbed in planning
the best market for his sheep and in getting as much from his garden as he could, hoping to
sell what he was unable to use himself, when the time came to leave. His usually cheerful face
had grown more and more troubled as the summer wore on, and it was seldom now that his bagpipes
woke the mountain echoes, and whenever he did while away a rainy evening with music, the melodies
were as wild and mournful as his own sad thoughts.

Angus Niel's barometer now rose again. Finding himself no longer pursued by his unseen foes,
his waning self-confidence returned, and it was only a week or two after Alan's departure that
wonderful stories began to go about the village concerning his prowess in ridding the woods
of thieves and marauders single-handed.

"I've even found my boat," he announced one evening to a group of men lounging about the village
store, "and it was no human hands that put it where I found it either! It was below the falls,
if you'll believe me, safe and sound and tight as ever. Any man that is easily scared would
better not be walking the woods in that direction, I'm telling you, or likely he'd be whisked
away by the little people and shut up in some cave in the hills. I felt the drawing myself
once, but I knew how to manage. I was just gey firm with them, and they knew I wasna fearful
and let me go. It's none so easy being a gamekeeper. It takes a bold man, and a canny one,
and well the poacher gang knew that. They're gone and good riddance. It's taken me all summer
to bring it about."

"Oh," murmured Jock to Jean, when this was repeated to them by Sandy the following Sabbath,
"wouldn't Alan like to hear that?" It was on that very Sabbath, too, that they learned the
Dominie had recovered and that school was to reopen on the following day. This was good news
to the Twins, for like all Scotch children they longed for an education, and the next morning,
bright and early, they were on the road to the village, carrying some scones and hard-boiled
eggs for their luncheon, in a little tin pail.

The days passed swiftly after that, for, with the house to care for, lessons to get, and the
walk of five miles to school and back, there was little time for moping or even dreading the
day when they must leave their highland home.

It was late August when they came rushing home one afternoon, bursting with a great piece of
news, which they had learned in the village. Never had they covered the five miles of the homeward
journey more quickly, but when they reached the little gray house, their father had not yet
returned from the pastures, though it was after his time. The two children ran back of the
house to the cow byre, and there in the distance they saw him coming across the barren moor.
He was walking slowly, with his head bent as though he were tired and discouraged, and Tam,
limping along beside him, looked discouraged too. The Twins gave a wild whoop and raced across
the moor to meet them. Jock got there first, but was too out of breath to speak for an instant.

"Dear, dear! What can the matter be?" said their father, looking from one excited face to the
other.

"Oh, Father," gasped Jean, finding her tongue first, "you never can guess, so I'll tell you.
The Auld Laird's dead."

The Shepherd stood still in his tracks, too stunned for words.

"Aye!" cried Jock, wishing to share in the glory of such an exciting revelation. "He's as dead
as a salt herring."

"Oh, Father!" cried Jean, "aren't you glad? Now we won't have to leave the wee bit hoosie and
the Glen."

"I'm none so sure of that," said the Shepherd slowly, when he had recovered from the first
shock of surprise. "The new Laird may be worse than the old. Be that as it may, I'm not one
to rejoice at the death of any man. Death is a solemn thing, my dawtie, but the Lord's will
be done, and I'm not pretending to mourn."

"We went to the village," cried Jean, "to get a bit of meat for the pot, and there was a whole
crowd of people around the post-office door. 'T was the post-master gave us the news, and Mr.
Craigie and Angus Niel have put weeds on their hats and look as mournful as Tam when he's scolded.
We saw them out of the school-house window not two hours gone."

"They have reason to mourn," said the Shepherd grimly, "not for the Auld Laird's death only,
but for their own lives as well. Aye, that's a subject for grief."

"What has that to do with the Auld Laird?" asked Jock, much mystified.

"Nothing at all, maybe," answered the Shepherd, "but it's a wise word to remember against our
own time."

"I wish Angus Niel would remember it," exclaimed Jean.

"And Mr. Craigie no less," added Jock.

"Well, well," said the Shepherd, "heard ye anything more in the village?"

"Aye, that we did," said Jean, who loved to prolong the excitement of news.

"Let me tell that," said Jock. "You told about the Auld Laird. Well, then, Father, there's
all kinds of tales about the new Laird. It's said he's a wee bit of a laddie, not more than
four years old, and not the son of the Auld Laird at all, but a cousin or something. It's said
he's weak and sickly-like and not long for this world."

"Sandy's mother was in the village and walked with us to the bridge," interrupted Jean, "and
she heard that the heir is a young man living in Edinburgh, and not even known to the Auld
Laird, who had no near kin. She had it from the minister's wife, so it must be true."

"Didn't Mr. Craigie say anything? He ought to know more about it than any one. He's the Auld
Laird's factor to carry out his will while he was living. It's likely he'd know more than any
other about his will, now he's dead," said the Shepherd.

"Mrs. Crumpet says he goes about with his mouth shut up as tight as an egg, as though he knew
a great deal more than other folk, being so intimate-like with the Laird," said Jean.

"Aye!" added Jock, "but she said she believed there was a muckle he did not know at all, and
he was keeping his mouth shut to make folks think he knew but wasna telling."

Jean now took up the tale. "Mrs. Crumpet had all the news in town," she said, "and she told
us that Angus Niel said he hoped the new Laird was fond of the hunting and would appreciate
his work in preserving the game and driving poachers from the forests of Glen Cairn. He said
he had done the work of ten men, and it was well that people should know it and be able to
tell the new Laird, when he comes into his own!"

Even the Shepherd couldn't help smiling at that, and as for Jean and Jock, they shouted with
laughter. In spite of themselves, the children and their father felt such relief from anxiety
that they walked back to the little gray house with lighter hearts than they had felt for some
time. Whoever the new Laird might be, it would take time to settle the estate and find out
the will of its new owner, and meanwhile they could live on in their old home. Beyond that,
they could even hope that they might not have to go at all.

That night Jean cooked the first of their early potatoes from the garden for supper and a bit
of ham to eat with them, by way of celebrating their reprieve, and after supper the Shepherd
got out his bagpipes and played "The Blue Bells of Scotland" until the rafters rang again.
Jean stepped busily about the kitchen in tune to the music, humming the words to herself.

   "Oh where, tell me where is your Highland laddie gone?
    He's gone with streaming banners where noble deeds are done,
    And it's oh! in my heart, I wish him safe at home."

And she thought of Alan as she sang. Afterward, when Jock and Jean were safely stowed away
for the night, the Shepherd went over and brought from the table in the room his well-worn
copy of Robert Burns's "Poems," and the last view Jean had of him before she went to sleep,
he was reading "The Cotter's Saturday Night" aloud to himself by the light of a flickering candle.

XIII. THE NEW LAIRD

It was Friday when news of the Auld Laird's death reached the village, and on the following
Sabbath there was not an empty seat in the kirk, for every one was anxious to hear the latest
gossip about the event which meant so much to every one in the region. There was no newspaper
in the village, and the news of the week was passed about by word of mouth in the kirkyard
after service, or on week days was retailed over the counter at the village post-office, which
was post-office and general store in one.

The Campbells were early in their pew, and the Twins watched the other worshipers as they came
slowly up the aisle and took their places before time for the service to begin. Sandy winked
at them most indecorously across the church, but his mother poked him to remind him of his
duty, and he sent no more silent messages to the other members of the Clan.

There was an air of expectation, which seemed to affect every one in the kirk. Even the minister
looked as if he had something special on his mind, and as for Mr. Craigie, he was as solemnly
important, Sandy said afterwards, "as though he were the corpse himself," while Angus Niel
acted like nothing less than the chief mourner.

In the kirkyard he let it be known that he was entirely familiar with the details of the Auld
Laird's funeral, which had occurred in London the day before, though how the particulars reached
him in so short a time must forever remain a mystery.

It was Mr. Craigie, however, who gave out the important news which every one had felt must
be coming. On the steps after service he said to Mr. Crumpet, "It's likely, Andrew, that you
may have more time about your lease. I've had news that the new Laird is coming soon to the
castle with his lawyers and some other people to look over the estate and take possession.
Eppie McLean is to get ready for quite a party of the gentry."

Mrs. Crumpet was standing near her husband, and she was a bold woman who would have asked a
question of the Auld Laird himself, if she had had occasion. "Then it's the sickly bit laddie
who's the heir?" she said, "and not the Edinburgh man?"

Mr. Craigie looked majestic and waved her aside, merely saying, as he went down the steps,
"It isna an Edinburgh body," but giving no hint as to whether it was man, woman, or child.
The people who had gathered about him thinking to hear something definite looked resentfully
at his back as he walked away, and Mrs. Crumpet openly expressed her opinion that he knew nothing
more about it himself. "If he did, he couldn't help letting it dribble out by degrees, like
a leaky kirn, being too stingy to tell it out free, like any other body," she said.

Mrs. Crumpet was a woman of rare penetration. Even Sandy didn't often get ahead of his mother.

For another week the village waited in suspense for further news, and then on Saturday the
report spread like wildfire through the town that the new Laird with his party had arrived
at the castle the night before.

It was Sandy who brought the news to the little gray house. "And they say there were three
carriage-loads of them and they never got to Glen Cairn until dark," he cried; "and the tale
is that the castle ovens have never been cool since the word came a week ago! Mother says Eppie
McLean has been laying in provisions as if she looked for seven lean years like Joseph in Egypt."

"Losh!" interrupted Jock, "I wish Alan was here. Wouldn't we get some of those good things
for the cave, though."

"But that isn't all the news," cried Sandy, who had come three miles to tell it and was not
going to let it burst from him too suddenly. "There's more."

"What is it, Sandy?" cried Jean, dancing with impatience. "Hurry, lad; let out what's bottled
up in you or you'll blow the cork!"

"Well," exploded Sandy, "you'll get some of the good things without Alan, I'm telling you,
for there's to be a grand feast at the castle, and everybody is asked to come! There's a sign
up in the village, and it's to be Monday at five o'clock. They say Eppie McLean has fowls waiting
by the dozen and a barrel of tatties ready for the pot. Losh! I don't see how the new Laird
can stay weakly with so much to fill him up."

"Sal!" cried Jean, "if he's such a wee laddie as they say, it's likely his mother will be the
one to say what's to be done in Glen Cairn, and it's not likely she'll be wanting to go rampaging
over the country shooting game like the Auld Laird."

"Ye can never tell," said Sandy, with a worldly air. "Some say ladies is worse than men."

"Never believe that," said Jean, promptly, and then she added a little wistfully, "especially
if they are mothers."

At church the next day the congregation was in such a state of excitement it was with the greatest
difficulty that the proper Sabbath decorum was observed. Sandy Crumpet brazenly looked over
his shoulder every time any one passed up the aisle, thinking that perhaps the new Laird and
his mother might come in at any moment, and even the grown people looked sidewise, but no new
faces appeared and fear was expressed afterwards that the mother of the heir was of the Established
Church. Mrs. Crumpet said she had always heard that among the gentry the women were fiercer
in their religion than the men. The Shepherd remembered the Laird of Kinross, but said nothing.

On the way home from church Jean and Jock noticed that smoke was issuing from all the castle
chimneys. It was now early autumn, and, as Jean said, the castle must be damp from, standing
so long empty, and they had the right to warm it up for the wee Laird, him being so sickly.

The suspense of the long weeks of summer had now become acute. If the Auld Laird's wish to
turn the tenants out of their holdings to make Glen Cairn into a large game preserve was to
be carried out, the time for doing it was near, and the people looked forward to the supper
at the castle with both hope and dread.

Every one was to be there, and on Monday a wonderful amount of preparation was going forward
in every cottage and farmhouse on the estate. Jean had her father's blacks on the line and
thoroughly brushed early in the morning, and the Sabbath clothes for all three of them laid
out on the chairs in "the room" by noon. At four o'clock they were on their way to the castle.
Jock had wanted to start at three, but Jean was firm.

"It isna genteel to be going so early," she said. "T'will look greedy, and you'll not get fed
the sooner."

Any one would have said Jean looked pretty that day, for she was not wearing her "Saturday
face," and the little curls had crept around her head unbeknownst and were blowing in bright
tendrils about her forehead under the edge of her bonnet with its sprig of pine. Her cheeks
were pink and her eyes bright with health and excitement, and Robert Campbell, looking with
pride at his sturdy son and daughter, said to himself, "It's a sonsie lassie and braw lad.
I wish their mother could see them."

They walked down the river road, where the autumn colors were beginning to appear, and at the
bridge met the Crumpet family all dressed in their best, also on their way to the castle. Sandy
had scrubbed himself till his face was shining like a glass bottle, and the sprig of pine waved
proudly from his bonnet, too. At every branch road they were joined by others, and when they
neared the castle gates there was already quite a large group of people from the village as
well. Every one was in a state of tense excitement, for the fate of all hung in the balance.
Since the tenure of their homes was at the mercy of the new Laird, his ideas and disposition
were of vital importance in their lives, and they were keen to see him and find out for themselves
what manner of person he might be. Mr. Crumpet was looking very glum. He took a morose view
of life at best, and the present circumstances certainly warranted apprehension.

"If it's a wee bit of a laddie, as we are led to expect," he said to the Shepherd, "he'll have
no judgment of his own, and be dependent on them as has him in charge. Mr. Craigie will not
be loosening his hold, and with only a weak woman and a sickly boy to deal with, he'll wind
'em around his finger like a wisp o' wool. It's my opinion we'll have Mr. Craigie to deal with
more than ever."

"Well," said Mrs. Crumpet philosophically, "and if we jump at all 't will be but from the fire
back to the frying-pan again, I'm thinking."

Various other opinions were expressed by one and another as the tenants of Glen Cairn followed
the wide drive which led to the castle doors. Most of them had never before been inside the
walls of the park, and they looked about them with interest at the unkempt and overgrown drive
and at the bracken and heather spreading even over the lawns. It was evident that the place
had been left to take care of itself for many years.

It was a warm day in late September, and though there was a touch of red in the ivy which draped
the gray castle walls, the air was mellow with the haze of autumn and musical with the buzzing
of bees.

Mr. Craigie, looking more like a pair of tongs than ever, stood on the terrace with the minister
and his wife, while Angus Niel, swelling with importance, ranged round the outskirts of the
crowd as they approached the castle, gradually herding them toward the entrance. When they
were all gathered in front of the terrace, the minister came forward to the steps and lifted
his hand. A hush instantly fell upon the waiting people, and the minister spoke.

"Her ladyship has asked me to say to you that she and the new Laird will meet you here," he
said, "and afterward conduct you to the banqueting-hall, where supper will be served. It is
their desire to know you all personally, and I will be here to present you as you come up the
steps."

There was a surprised look on every face as the minister finished speaking. What manner of
landlord could this be, who made a point of knowing his tenants as men and women the moment
he came to the estate? It was a breathless moment when at last the great castle doors swung
open, revealing a group of people standing in the entrance. There was an instant's pause, and
then a tall strong-looking woman stepped forward upon the terrace, with her hand resting lightly
on the shoulder of a sturdy black-haired boy nearly as tall as herself. The boy was dressed
in kilts, with the Campbell plaid flung over his shoulder and a spray of evergreen pine nodding
gayly from his Glengarry bonnet.

"Michty me! It's Alan!" exclaimed Jock, so stunned by surprise that his knees nearly gave way
under him, while Jean, her eyes shining like stars, clutched her father's hand, too stunned
to realize at first that Alan and the new Laird of Glen Cairn were one and the same person.
In fact, nobody realized it at once, for many of the tenants had come to know and like Alan
during the summer, simply as "the boy who was staying with Eppie McLean."

They were still gazing at the castle door and wondering why the "puny wee laddie, who was not
long for this world" did not appear, when the gracious lady, who still stood with her hand
resting proudly on Alan's shoulder, began to speak.

"Many of you already know the new Laird of Glen Cairn as Alan McCrae," she said, smiling kindly
down into their blank upturned faces. "He has been among you all summer and has learned to
love our Highland country without dreaming that he himself would one day inherit this beautiful
estate. He is next of kin to the Auld Laird, though not a near relative, and had no idea that
I had any purpose beyond the improvement of his health in sending him here for the summer.
I knew that which he did not, that he was likely soon to be called to take the Auld Laird's
place here, and I wanted him to know you first, not as tenants, but as friends merely. He has
come to love this region for its own sake, and comes among you like a true Scotchman, meaning
to make this his home and the interests of this community his own interests. He is not yet
of age, as you see, but his purposes and plans are clearly formed, and I will leave him to
explain them to you himself."

She stopped speaking, and the people, overwhelmed with surprise and joy, burst into a hearty
and prolonged cheer, as Alan stepped forward to make his speech. He was only a boy, and a very
much embarrassed one at that, but he knew what he wanted to say and he got to the point at once.

"I just want you to know," he said, "that nobody's going to be turned out if he doesn't want
to be. I know all about the lease, and that it's going to run out this fall, but any one who
wants to stay on the land and improve it is going to have the chance to do it. My mother knows
a lot about such things, and we're going to collect the rents ourselves, and we think, maybe,
when I'm of age, there'll be some way by which people who really want to use the land may own
it instead of being obliged to rent. Mother says they are beginning to do it in Ireland, and
in England too in some places.

"I've found out that people are more important than rabbits and deer, and they are going to
have first chance at the land of Glen Cairn as long as I'm Laird." This was greeted with such
a roar of cheers that for a moment it was quite impossible for Alan to proceed. He smiled bashfully
at his mother and then held up his hand for silence.

"I just want to say, too," he went on, biting his lips to keep from laughing, "that after this
there won't be any gamekeeper on Glen Cairn. If the rabbits spoil your crops you're welcome
to catch them if you can! I've ranged these woods myself all summer, and I have found out that
gamekeepers are no safeguard against poachers." A gasp of astonishment greeted this statement,
and Angus Niel was observed to turn ashy pale.

"In fact, I know that sometimes gamekeepers turn poachers themselves and make money selling
what they have killed," he went on. Here Angus Niel, looking suddenly deflated, like a burst
balloon, began quietly to slink out of sight, and Alan, brimful of mischief, raised his voice
so it would be sure to reach him and said, "I've seen it done myself, and if Angus Niel wants
to know any more about that gang of twenty blood-thirsty villains which has scared the life
out of him all summer, he can come to me and I'll tell him. I'm the Chief of that gang, and
there are three others just like me, and that's all!" He winked rapturously at the three other
members of the Clan, who were gazing up at him in a stupor of astonishment, and fired his last
shot at the fleeing Angus, while the audience, catching his meaning, burst into howls of derisive
laughter.

"Don't hurry, Angus," he called. "I want to tell you about your boat and about the water witch
that haunted you. I'm the water witch too!" But Angus was already out of hearing and scuttling
as fast as his trembling legs could carry him to get out of sight, as well. When the roars
of laughter had subsided, Alan said, with a boyish grin, "It's too bad he couldn't stay to
supper. And now come up, everybody, and meet my mother."

It was then that the Shepherd of Glen Easig astonished himself and every one else by shouting
at the top of his lungs, "Three cheers for the young Laird!" and when they had been given with
such energy that the hills rang with the echoes, he called for three more for her ladyship,
and Alan waved his cap in acknowledgment for them both.

Then the people, surprised out of their usual Scotch reserve by laughter and by the joy of
good news, came swarming up the steps and were introduced to Alan's mother by Alan himself
when he knew them, and by the minister when he did not.

The Shepherd, with the bashful Clan in his wake, came last of all, and the Twins heard him
say to her ladyship, "God bless the laddie! It was a rare day for the Glen when he fell into
the burn and came to dry himself by our fireside." 

And now the squire shouted back to his younger companion, "tear his jacket on, Kurt! It is the
bright bunch here, you will find a clean stationary, you would like to hate bestellet see! "

The
selfsame moment I felt even the hands of the Risch in my body, and
began a furious struggle between us.

I felt that I so easily as in the Boyhood, he would not over, but as Puget, it is my luck that
I he grabbed both wrists and shackled as he stood in front of me so. It had none of We have announced
this a word, but as we saw in the eyes itzund, as did every well that he's had with his mortal
enemy in front of him.


"Oh, but," said Jean, a little sadly and blushing like a poppy, "we never thought you'd be
coming back so grand like. You'll never be playing with the Clan any more in Glen Easig, surely,
now that you 're a great Laird!"

"And why not, I'd like to know?" cried the great Laird, looking hurt. "I'm still Alan McRae,
Chief of the Clan, the same as before, and as true to my friends as Rob Roy himself was before
me. We'll have many a good day in the woods yet before snow flies; and listen, I've a plan
in my head!"

"There speaks the Chief," cried Jock, forgetting to be afraid of him. "He was ever having plans
in his head. Out with it, man."

"It's this," said Alan, "I'm going to have a tutor here at the castle, and you're all to have
your lessons here with me, and no end of larks!" Here Sandy, who had so far merely gazed at
his Chief with speechless devotion, suddenly burst into words.

"Aye, Chief," he cried, "that was a true word you spoke about no gamekeeper being needed in
Glen Cairn. I'm none so keen for the learning, but if there should be poachers hanging about,
they'll have Sandy Crumpet to deal with; let them take warning of that!"

Alan laughed and clapped Sandy on the back. "I'd rather have you than forty Angus Niels," he
said, and then they were swept along, without a chance for further words, into the great hall,
where they found long tables spread and Eppie McLean with a dozen helpers bringing in such
stores of food that all Sandy had said about the preparations at the castle was justified at
a glance.

Most of the people had already found places at the tables when the young Laird and his mother,
followed by the minister and his wife and the castle guests, cams into the hall. It was a bad thing. He feared that the military Orders could
be revoked if the brother would betray notorious. Excitement was he in his room and down while
his wife explained to this danger. The minister
and the guests from the city ranged themselves on either side, and every one stood with bowed
head while the minister asked a blessing upon the food, upon the new Laird and his mother,
and upon all the people of Glen Cairn.

There was a great scraping of chairs, and then every one sat down and fell upon the good things
like an army of locusts upon a harvest field. The great hall, so long silent, echoed with happy
voices and the clatter, of knives and forks, and Jean, looking across the table at the new
Laird, in all his glory, wondered if it could be possible that it was the very Alan whom she
had shaken when Angus shot the stag, or who had helped her set the table in the kitchen of
the little gray house, while his wet clothes were drying by the cottage fire. She ate her supper
like one in a dream, and though she kept a watchful eye on Jock's table manners and warned
Sandy's elbows off the table several times in her own efficient way, she could scarcely believe
such wonderful things were really happening to her.

At last the wonderful day drew to a close, and the people of Glen Cairn, happier than they
had been in a long time, said good-bye to the gracious lady of the castle and to the already
beloved young Laird, and started home in the deepening twilight of the autumn evening.

The Clan, lingering behind their parents, looked back at the group on the castle terrace before
the trees hid them from sight, and Jock sent the pewit call shrilling through the dusk. It
was answered instantly from the terrace.

"He is just like Prince Charlie, I'm thinking," said Sandy, and Jock, to ease his feelings,
whistled "Charlie is my darling" all the way to the gate of the park.

The evening star was shining brightly over the dark outline of old Ben Vane as the Campbells
reached the little gray house on the brae, now safely their home forever, and Tam came bounding
down the path to meet them. Jean kissed her hand to the star and murmured to herself,

    "Star light, star bright,
     I have the wish I wished to-night."

GLOSSARY

Auld, old.

Aye (pronounced i), yes.

Aye (pronounced a), ever, always.

Bailie, an officer of the law.

Bairn, a child.

Ben. See But and ben.

Besom, a broom.

Bide, stay.

Bittock, a little bit.

Blatherskite, a babbling person, a good-for-nothing.

Blethering, talking nonsense.

Bonny, pretty, beautiful, charming.

Bracken, brake, a species of tall fern.

Brae (pronounced bray), a hillside.

Braw, fine, handsome.

Burn, a brook.

But and ben, outside and in.

But the house means out of the house. But is also applied to the kitchen; going but is going
from the best room to the kitchen, and going ben is going into the best room.

Byre, a cow-shed.

Canny, shrewd.

Chap, a knock.

Daft, silly, foolish.

Dandering, wandering.

Dawtie, darling, pet.

Dinna, do not.

Dod, an exclamation.

Doubt, suspect.

Dyke, a low fence or wall of turf or stone.

Fash, disturb.

Fine, finely, well.

Gey, very.

Gin (g as in give), if.

Girdle, a griddle.

Glengarry bonnet, a small cap without visor.

Greet, weep.

Guddling, catching fish with the hands.

Havers (a as in hay), nonsense (an exclamation). As he screamed so loud his babbling tongue, it could also: "Hey,
Tartar! Tuerk! Where are you stuck! Tartar, Turk!" And I now knew that the grim two Koëter, I
had earlier in the barn to see the serving hang me in the nude Throat should jump. Even I heard
it through the turmoil of the daherschnaufen dancers, I tore my enemy suddenly with a jerk to the
ground, then jumped through a side out of the room, I threw blaring behind me, and then won the
open.

And to me, her back suddenly the quiet night and moon and stars shine. In the Stall to my horse,
I dare not to go first, but jumped flight through a wall and ran over to the field to the
forest. As I soon reaches For him, I was looking for direction comply with the Hall, for it
runs the Holzung to hard on the garden wall. Although was ruled out of the bright lights of
heaven here through the foliage of trees, but my Eyes became accustomed to the darkness very
soon, and since I Taeschlein safely under my Jerkins felt, I groped vorwaerts vigorously, for I
thought the rest of the night again rest in my room, then counsel but with the old Dieterich, what
happened allfort should, and I saw so relaxed that I stay here would
not henceforth.

Sometimes I even stood and listened, but I liked when I left the door
well into the Castle thrown and so have gained a good lead me by the
dogs was not a sound audible. In the
fifth grade it may be well to have the children read the story first in a study period in order
to work out the pronunciation of the more difficult words and to get sufficient command of
the Scotch dialect, which, however, is not used to so great an extent that it will be difficult
for American children to understand. The teacher should explain the use of the glossary in
this connection. In the sixth grade the children will usually be able to read the story at
sight except so far as reference to the glossary is necessary to the understanding of Scottish
words and phrases.

As in all the Twins readers, the possibilities in this story for dramatization will be immediately
apparent. The numerous outdoor adventures, the discovery of the cave, and the fishing will
probably be the scenes that will make the most immediate appeal to boys who are beginning to
show the Boy Scout spirit; and other phases of outdoor life, no less than the touches of housework,
will appeal to members of the Girl Scout and the Girls' Camp Fire organization. The illustrations
in the book show hints for simple costuming which may be followed when desired.

Mrs. Perkins's illustrations can be used in other ways also. Children will enjoy sketching
many of them, since their simple style makes them especially available in this way. An excellent
oral exercise would be for the children after they have read the story to take turns in telling
it from the illustrations; and a good composition exercise would be for each pupil to select
the illustration that he would like to write upon, to make a copy of it, and then to tell its
story in his own way.

During the reading, the teacher should tell the children something about Scotland, geographically
and historically. Teachers should refer also to Tomlinson's "Young Americans in the British
Isles," Kate Douglas Wiggin's "Penelope's Progress," the volumes devoted to Scotland in Longfellow's
series, "Poems of Places," and to Bradley's "The Gateway of Scotland." Other references are
Hunnewell's "Lands of Scott" and Olcott's "The Country of Sir Walter Scott." (Consult the indexes
for references to Rob Roy, The Lady of the Lake, etc. Also of course Scott's novels and poems
and Burns's poems contain much material that can be drawn upon.) Particularly to be recommended
are the selections published in the Riverside Literature Series and in Webster and Coe's "Tales
and Verse from Sir Walter Scott."

Just at the present time when the tercentenary of the landing at Plymouth occupies all our
attention, it is particularly timely to recall the potent influences of the Scottish people
upon the Puritans in old England and the Pilgrims who founded New England. But at this moment the door
latch was pushed back to the next room and appeared in the half-open door his wife. Her young,
pink face was deathly pale, she had heard what the men were negotiating and knew that her life and that
of her husband and children was at stake. Trembling with fear they dared not to cross the threshold,
the door handle in his hand and called her Man pleading: "I beg you for God's sake, save us, O
think of the children!" Of particular bearing is his comment
upon conditions resulting from the withdrawal of soil for purposes of sport, the poaching that
followed, etc.

The spirit of Scottish history is epitomized in Burns's poem, "A Man's a Man for a' That,"
and the ingenious teacher will need no further prompting as to the ways in which this poem
and the movement for which it stands are related to the history of our own country. A further
debt to Scotland lies in the character of the Scotch immigrants to the United States and their
descendants; Griffis's "Bonnie Scotland and What We Owe Her" will show how to apply this suggestion
and others which will come to mind from these paragraphs.

