When Truman & Smith began publishing, the copyright law required the deposit of titles and
copies of the several books in the office of the Clerk of the District Court. At first such
deposits were made in Columbus, Ohio, but later in Cincinnati. When Congress organized the
Copyright Bureau in Washington, the several clerks were required to send to the Library of
Congress all the sample copies deposited; but these had been carelessly kept and many were
lost. A duplicate set was for years required to be sent to the Smithsonian Institution in Washington.
These were also passed into the custody of the Librarian of Congress; but this collection had
been carelessly preserved and the files of the McGuffey Readers at Washington are now quite
defective for the earliest issues. The Library seems to have no copy of any number of the first
edition except possibly the Second and Fourth. The copy of the Second was deposited December
12, 1836. The Fourth bears date of July, 1837. All the other early copies found in that library
are of later dates and are "Revised and Improved."

[Early Engravings]

It may be well to indicate in a general way the progress that has been made in illustrating
schoolbooks. The first editions of the McGuffey Readers as issued in 1836 and 1837 did not
contain a single original engraving. All seem to have been copied from English books. The nice
little boys wear round-about jackets with wide, white ruffled collars at the neck. The proper
little girls have scoop bonnets and conspicuous pantalets. Most of the men wear knee breeches.
The houses shown have the thatched roofs of English cottages. In one picture a boy has a regular
cricket bat. Other schoolbooks of that date show similar appropriations of English engravings;
but even at that time there were a few wood engravers in America. When the second general revision
was made in 1843 some original illustrations appeared and in the edition of 1853 notice was
given on the title page that the engravings were copyright property that must not be used by
others.

As pictures are closely studied by children, some of the users of these early books may remember
the cut showing vividly the dangers of "whale catching." Two boats are thrown high in the air
by one sweep of the animal's tail and one seaman is shown head downward still in the boat.
Another represented Jonah being cast overboard from the ship toward the whale below whose mouth
is manifestly large enough to accommodate Jonah.

But the engravings in this edition of 1853 had no considerable artistic quality and they were
very coarsely engraved. In 1863 came the first employment of a genuine artist in wood engraving.
This was Mr. E.J. Whitney who had made a reputation by work done for New York publishers. His
engravings were to take the place of some then in the books and their sizes were precisely
determined. The drawings were most carefully made by Mr. Herrick with pencil on the whitened
boxwood blocks, and sent to the publisher for examination. These, when approved, were returned
to the engraver who followed precisely the lines of the drawing. When the engraving was finished,
a carefully rubbed proof on India paper was sent to the publisher. If this was satisfactory,
the block was delivered and from it an electrotype was made for printing. The block itself
was preserved as an original. Mr. Whitney's work was thoroughly good. He was a wood engraver
of the old school.

[New Processes]

When the revision of 1878 was decided on, the publishers of the McGuffey Readers realized that
much improvement must be made in the illustrations. About this time the magazines were placing
great stress upon pictorial work and a new school of engravers came into existence. The wood
engravers had already departed from the painful reproduction of each line of a pencil drawing
and had become skilled in representing tints of light and shade if placed on the whitened block
with a brush. This gave greater freedom of interpretation to the engraver. The next step was
to have the drawing made large and reproduced on the block by photography. By this method most
of the engravings were made for the edition of 1878. Care was taken to employ artists of reputation
and the engravings were usually signed by the artist and by the engraver.

Before the last edition came out in 1901, photo-engraving had nearly supplanted wood engraving.
By this process the artist's drawing with the brush is reproduced in fine tints which, when
well engraved and carefully printed, produce effective results. Pen and ink drawings are also
reproduced in exact facsimile. By this process the hand work of the engraver is nearly eliminated.
The blocks are sometimes retouched to produce effects not attained by the process work. The
skill of the artist in making the drawing thus becomes all important.

[Later Inventions]

The introduction of color work in the schoolbooks intended for young children resulted from
the invention of the three-color plates. From nature, or from a colored painting, three photographs
are taken--one excluding all but the yellow rays of light, one for the red rays, and one for
the blue. From these photographs three tint blocks are made which to the eye in many cases
look exactly alike. From one of these an impression is made with yellow ink, exactly over this
the red plate prints with red ink and this is followed by an impression from the blue plate.
If the effects of the color screens of the camera are exactly reproduced by the printer's inks
and with exactly the right amount of ink, the result is wonderfully satisfactory.

What are the qualities in these McGuffey Eclectic Readers that won for them through three-quarters
of a century such wide and constant use?

[Character Building]

The best answer to this question may be drawn from the many newspaper articles which appeared
in Western and Southern papers after the death of one of the authors. There is general recognition
on the part of the writers of these articles that while the books served well their purpose
of teaching the art of reading, their greatest value consisted in the choice of masterpieces
in literature which by their contents taught morality, and patriotism and by their beauty served
as a gateway to pure literature. One editor, who used these books in his school career, said,
"Thousands of men and women owe their wholesome views of life, as well as whatever success
they may have attained to the wholesome maxims and precepts found on every page of these valuable
books. The seed they scattered has yielded a million-fold. All honor to the name and memory
of this excellent and useful man."

[What Constitutes Real Value]

One of the wise men of the olden time cared not who wrote the laws if he might write their
songs. Among a people devoid of books the folk-songs are early lodged firmly in the mind of
every child. They influence his whole life. The modern schoolbooks--particularly the readers--furnish
the basis of the moral and intellectual training of the youth in every community. The McGuffey
Readers, from their own peculiar inherent qualities, retained their hold upon the schools until
in some states laws were passed which in their operation caused schoolbooks to be regarded
as commodities estimated almost solely upon the cost of paper, printing and binding. The value
of these material things can easily be ascertained and compared; but unless the print carries
the lessons that help to form a life the paper is wasted and the pupil's most valuable time
is misspent. The teaching power of a schoolbook cannot be weighed in the grocer's scales nor
measured with a pint cup. In the field open to free and constant competition, the books best
suited to the wants of each community will in the end succeed. It was under such conditions
that the McGuffey Readers won and held their place in the schools.