Just before reaching Colonel Long's we forded the stream (here of good size), the bridge having
tumbled down, and encountered a party of picnickers under the trees--signs of civilization;
a railway station is not far off. Colonel Long's is a typical Southern establishment: a white
house, or rather three houses, all of one story, built on to each other as beehives are set
in a row, all porches and galleries. No one at home but the cook, a rotund, broad-faced woman,
with a merry eye, whose very appearance suggested good cooking and hospitality; the Missis
and the children had gone up to the river fishing; the Colonel was somewhere about the place;
always was away when he was wanted. Guess he'd take us in, mighty fine man the Colonel; and
she dispatched a child from a cabin in the rear to hunt him up. The Colonel was a great friend
of her folks down to Greenville; they visited here. Law, no, she didn't live here. Was just
up here spending the summer, for her health. God-forsaken lot of people up here, poor trash.
She wouldn't stay here a day, but the Colonel was a friend of her folks, the firstest folks
in Greenville. Nobody round here she could 'sociate with. She was a Presbyterian, the folks
round here mostly Baptists and Methodists. More style about the Presbyterians. Married? No,
she hoped not. She did n't want to support no husband. Got 'nuff to do to take care of herself.
That her little girl? No; she'd only got one child, down to Greenville, just the prettiest
boy ever was, as white as anybody. How did she what? reconcile this state of things with not
being married and being a Presbyterian? Sho! she liked to carry some religion along; it was
mighty handy occasionally, mebbe not all the time. Yes, indeed, she enjoyed her religion.

The Colonel appeared and gave us a most cordial welcome. The fat and merry cook blustered around
and prepared a good dinner, memorable for its "light" bread, the first we had seen since Cranberry
Forge. The Colonel is in some sense a public man, having been a mail agent, and a Republican.
He showed us photographs and engravings of Northern politicians, and had the air of a man who
had been in Washington. This was a fine country for any kind of fruit,--apples, grapes, pears;
it needed a little Northern enterprise to set things going. The travelers were indebted to
the Colonel for a delightful noonday rest, and with regret declined his pressing invitation
to pass the night with him.

The ride down the Swannanoa to Asheville was pleasant, through a cultivated region, over a
good road. The Swannanoa is, however, a turbid stream. In order to obtain the most impressive
view of Asheville we approached it by the way of Beaucatcher Hill, a sharp elevation a mile
west of the town. I suppose the name is a corruption of some descriptive French word, but it
has long been a favorite resort of the frequenters of Asheville, and it may be traditional
that it is a good place to catch beaux. The summit is occupied by a handsome private residence,
and from this ridge the view, which has the merit of "bursting" upon the traveler as he comes
over the hill, is captivating in its extent and variety. The pretty town of Asheville is seen
to cover a number of elevations gently rising out of the valley, and the valley, a rich agricultural
region, well watered and fruitful, is completely inclosed by picturesque hills, some of them
rising to the dignity of mountains. The most conspicuous of these is Mount Pisgah, eighteen
miles distant to the southwest, a pyramid of the Balsam range, 5757 feet high. Mount Pisgah,
from its shape, is the most attractive mountain in this region.

