Later in the year Walter Butler, the son of Colonel John Butler, and Joseph Brant, with a party
of Loyalists and Mohawks, made a similar inroad on Cherry Valley, south of Springfield in the
state of New York. On this occasion Brant's Indians got beyond control, and more than fifty
defenceless old men, women, and children were slaughtered in cold blood.

The Americans took their revenge the following year. A large force under General Sullivan invaded
the settlements of the Six Nations Indians in the Chemung and Genesee valleys, and exacted
an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth. They burned the villages, destroyed the crops, and
turned the helpless women and children out to face the coming winter. Most of the Indians during
the winter of 1779-80 were dependent on the mercy of the British commissaries.

This kind of warfare tends to perpetuate itself indefinitely. In 1780 the Loyalists and Indians
returned to the attack. In May Sir John Johnson with his 'Royal Greens' made a descent into
the Mohawk valley, fell upon his 'rebellious birthplace,' and carried off rich booty and many
prisoners. In the early autumn, with a force composed of his own regiment, two hundred of Butler's
Rangers, and some regulars and Indians, he crossed over to the Schoharie valley, devastated
it, and then returned to the Mohawk valley, where he completed the work of the previous spring.
All attempts to crush him failed. At the battle of Fox's Mills he escaped defeat or capture
by the American forces under General Van Rensselaer largely on account of the dense smoke with
which the air was filled from the burning of barns and villages.

How far the Loyalists under Johnson and Butler were open to the charges of inhumanity and barbarism
so often levelled against them, is difficult to determine. The charges are based almost wholly
on unsubstantial tradition. The greater part of the excesses complained of, it is safe to say,
were perpetrated by the Indians; and Sir John Johnson and Colonel Butler can no more be blamed
for the excesses of the Indians at Cherry Valley than Montcalm can be blamed for their excesses
at Fort William Henry. It was unfortunate that the military opinion of that day regarded the
use of savages as necessary, and no one deplored this use more than men like Haldimand and
Carleton; but Washington and the Continental Congress were as ready to receive the aid of the
Indians as were the British. The difficulty of the Americans was that most of the Indians were
on the other side.

That there were, however, atrocities committed by the Loyalists cannot be doubted. Sir John
Johnson himself told the revolutionists that 'their Tory neighbours, and not himself, were
blameable for those acts.' There are well-authenticated cases of atrocities committed by Alexander
Macdonell: in 1781 he ordered his men to shoot down a prisoner taken near Johnstown, and when
the men bungled their task, Macdonell cut the prisoner down with his broadsword. When Colonel
Butler returned from Cherry Valley, Sir Frederick Haldimand refused to see him, and wrote to
him that 'such indiscriminate vengeance taken even upon the treacherous and cruel enemy they
are engaged against is useless and disreputable to themselves, as it is contrary to the disposition
and maxims of their King whose cause they are fighting.'

But rumour exaggerated whatever atrocities there were. For many years the Americans believed
that the Tories had lifted scalps like the Indians; and later, when the Americans captured
York in 1813, they found what they regarded as a signal proof of this barbarous practice among
the Loyalists, in the speaker's wig, which was hanging beside the chair in the legislative
chamber! There may have been members of Butler's Rangers who borrowed from the Indians this
hideous custom, just as there were American frontiersmen who were guilty of it; but it must
not be imagined that it was a common practice on either side. Except at Cherry Valley, there
is no proof that any violence was done by the Loyalists to women and children. On his return
from Wyoming, Colonel Butler reported: 'I can with truth inform you that in the destruction
of this settlement not a single person has been hurt of the inhabitants, but such as were armed;
to those indeed the Indians gave no quarter.'

In defence of the Loyalists, two considerations may be urged. In the first place, it must be
remembered that they were men who had been evicted from their homes, and whose property had
been confiscated. They had been placed under the ban of the law: the payment of their debts
had been denied them; and they had been forbidden to return to their native land under penalty
of death without benefit of clergy. They had been imprisoned, fined, subjected to special taxation;
their families had been maltreated, and were in many cases still in the hands of their enemies.
They would have been hardly human had they waged a mimic warfare. In the second place, their
depredations were of great value from a military point of view. Not only did they prevent thousands
of militiamen from joining the Continental army, but they seriously threatened the sources
of Washington's food supply. The valleys which they ravaged were the granary of the revolutionary
forces. In 1780 Sir John Johnson destroyed in the Schoharie valley alone no less than eighty
thousand bushels of grain; and this loss, as Washington wrote to the president of Congress,
'threatened alarming consequences.' That this work of destruction was agreeable to the Loyalists
cannot be doubted; but this fact does not diminish its value as a military measure.

CHAPTER V

PEACE WITHOUT HONOUR

The war was brought to a virtual termination by the surrender of Cornwallis at Yorktown on
October 19, 1781. The definitive articles of peace were signed at Versailles on September 3,
1783. During the two years that intervened between these events, the lot of the Loyalists was
one of gloomy uncertainty. They found it hard to believe that the British government would
abandon them to the mercy of their enemies; and yet the temper of the revolutionists toward
them continued such that there seemed little hope of concession or conciliation. Success had
not taught the rebels the grace of forgiveness. At the capitulation of Yorktown, Washington
had refused to treat with the Loyalists in Cornwallis's army on the same terms as with the
British regulars; and Cornwallis had been compelled to smuggle his Loyalist levies out of Yorktown
on the ship that carried the news of his surrender to New York. As late as 1782 fresh confiscation
laws had been passed in Georgia and the Carolinas; and in New York a law had been passed cancelling
all debts due to Loyalists, on condition that one-fortieth of the debt was paid into the state
treasury. These were straws which showed the way the wind was blowing.

In the negotiations leading up to the Peace of Versailles there were no clauses so long and
bitterly discussed as those relating to the Loyalists. The British commissioners stood out
at first for the principle of complete amnesty to them and restitution of all they had lost;
and it is noteworthy that the French minister added his plea to theirs. But Benjamin Franklin
and his colleagues refused to agree to this formula. They took the ground that they, as the
representatives merely of the Continental Congress, had not the right to bind the individual
states in such a matter. The argument was a quibble. Their real reason was that they were well
aware that public opinion in America would not support them in such a concession. A few enlightened
men in America, such as John Adams, favoured a policy of compensation to the Loyalists, 'how
little soever they deserve it, nay, how much soever they deserve the contrary'; but the attitude
of the great majority of the Americans had been clearly demonstrated by a resolution passed
in the legislature of Virginia on December 17, 1782, to the effect that all demands for the
restitution of confiscated property were wholly inadmissible. Even some of the Loyalists had
begun to realize that a revolution which had touched property was bound to be permanent, and
that the American commissioners could no more give back to them their confiscated lands than
Charles II was able to give back to his father's cavaliers the estates they had lost in the
Civil War.

The American commissioners agreed, finally, that no future confiscations should take place,
that imprisoned Loyalists should be released, that no further persecutions should be permitted,
and that creditors on either side should 'meet with no lawful impediment' to the recovery of
all good debts in sterling money. But with regard to the British demand for restitution, all
they could be induced to sign was a promise that Congress would 'earnestly recommend to the
legislatures of the respective states' a policy of amnesty and restitution.

In making this last recommendation, it is difficult not to convict the American commissioners
of something very like hypocrisy. There seems to be no doubt that they knew the recommendation
would not be complied with; and little or no attempt was made by them to persuade the states
to comply with it. In after years the clause was represented by the Americans as a mere form
of words, necessary to bring the negotiations to an end, and to save the face of the British
government. To this day it has remained, except in one or two states, a dead letter. On the
other hand it is impossible not to convict the British commissioners of a betrayal of the Loyalists.
It is very doubtful if the Americans would have gone to war again over such a question. In
1783 the position of Great Britain was relatively not weaker, but stronger, than in 1781, when
hostilities had ceased. The attitude of the French minister, and the state of the French finances,
made it unlikely that France would lend her support to further hostilities. And there is no
doubt that the American states were even more sorely in need of peace than was Great Britain.

When the terms of peace were announced, great was the bitterness among the Loyalists. One of
them protested in Rivington's Gazette that 'even robbers, murderers, and rebels are faithful
to their fellows and never betray each other,' and another sang,

   'Tis an honour to serve the bravest of nations,
   And be left to be hanged in their capitulations.

If the terms of the peace had been observed, the plight of the Loyalists would have been bad
enough. But as it was, the outcome proved even worse. Every clause in the treaty relating to
the Loyalists was broken over and over again. There was no sign of an abatement of the popular
feeling against them; indeed, in some places, the spirit of persecution seemed to blaze out
anew. One of Washington's bitterest sayings was uttered at this time, when he said of the Loyalists
that 'he could see nothing better for them than to commit suicide.' Loyalist creditors found
it impossible to recover their debts in America, while they were themselves sued in the British
courts by their American creditors, and their property was still being confiscated by the American
legislatures. The legislature of New York publicly declined to reverse its policy of confiscation,
on the ground that Great Britain had offered no compensation for the property which her friends
had destroyed. Loyalists who ventured to return home under the treaty of peace were insulted,
tarred and feathered, whipped, and even ham-strung. All over the country there were formed
local committees or associations with the object of preventing renewed intercourse with the
Loyalists and the restitution of Loyalist property. 'The proceedings of these people,' wrote
Sir Guy Carleton, 'are not to be attributed to politics alone--it serves as a pretence, and
under that cloak they act more boldly, but avarice and a desire of rapine are the great incentives.'

The Loyalists were even denied civil rights in most of the states. In 1784 an act was passed
in New York declaring that all who had held office under the British, or helped to fit out
vessels of war, or who had served as privates or officers in the British Army, or who had left
the state, were guilty of 'misprision of treason,' and were disqualified from both the franchise
and public office. There was in fact hardly a state in 1785 where the Loyalist was allowed
to vote. In New York Loyalist lawyers were not allowed to practise until April 1786, and then
only on condition of taking an 'oath of abjuration and allegiance.' In the same state, Loyalists
were subjected to such invidious special taxation that in 1785 one of them confessed that 'those
in New York whose estates have not been confiscated are so loaded with taxes and other grievances
that there is nothing left but to sell out and move into the protection of the British government.'

It was clear that something would have to be done by the British government for the Loyalists'
relief. 'It is utterly impossible,' wrote Sir Guy Carleton to Lord North, 'to leave exposed
to the rage and violence of these people [the Americans] men of character whose only offence
has been their attachment to the King's service.' Accordingly the British government made amends
for its betrayal of the Loyalists by taking them under its wing. It arranged for the transportation
of all those who wished to leave the revolted states; it offered them homes in the provinces
of Nova Scotia and Quebec; it granted half-pay to the officers after their regiments were reduced;
and it appointed a royal commission to provide compensation for the losses sustained.

CHAPTER VI

THE EXODUS TO NOVA SCOTIA

When the terms of peace became known, tens of thousands of the Loyalists shook the dust of
their ungrateful country from their feet, never to return. Of these the more influential part,
both during and after the war, sailed for England. The royal officials, the wealthy merchants,
landowners, and professional men; the high military officers--these went to England to press
their claims for compensation and preferment. The humbler element, for the most part, migrated
to the remaining British colonies in North America. About two hundred families went to the
West Indies, a few to Newfoundland, many to what were afterwards called Upper and Lower Canada,
and a vast army to Nova Scotia, New Brunswick, and Prince Edward Island.

The advantages of Nova Scotia as a field for immigration had been known to the people of New
England and New York before the Revolutionary War had broken out. Shortly after the Peace of
1763 parts of the Nova Scotian peninsula and the banks of the river St John had been sparsely
settled by colonists from the south; and during the Revolutionary War considerable sympathy
with the cause of the Continental Congress was shown by these colonists from New England. Nova
Scotia, moreover, was contiguous to the New England colonies, and it was therefore not surprising
that after the Revolution the Loyalists should have turned their eyes to Nova Scotia as a refuge
for their families.

The first considerable migration took place at the time of the evacuation of Boston by General
Howe in March 1776. Boston was at that time a town with a population of about sixteen thousand
inhabitants, and of these nearly one thousand accompanied the British Army to Halifax. 'Neither
Hell, Hull, nor Halifax,' said one of them, 'can afford worse shelter than Boston.' The embarkation
was accomplished amid the most hopeless confusion. 'Nothing can be more diverting,' wrote a
Whig, 'than to see the town in its present situation; all is uproar and confusion; carts, trucks,
wheelbarrows, handbarrows, coaches, chaises, all driving as if the very devil was after them.'
The fleet was composed of every vessel on which hands 'could be laid. In Benjamin Hallowell's
cabin there were thirty-seven persons--men, women, and children; servants, masters, and mistresses--obliged
to pig together on the floor, there being no berths.' It was a miracle that the crazy flotilla
arrived safely at Halifax; but there it arrived after tossing about for six days in the March
tempests. General Howe remained with his army at Halifax until June. Then he set sail for New
York. Some of the Loyalists accompanied him to New York, but the greater number took passage
for England. Only a few of the company remained in Nova Scotia.

From 1776 to 1783 small bodies of Loyalists continually found their way to Halifax; but it
was not until the evacuation of New York by the British in 1783 that the full tide of immigration
set in. As soon as news leaked out that the terms of peace were not likely to be favourable,
and it became evident that the animus of the Whigs showed no signs of abating, the Loyalists
gathered in New York looked about for a country in which to begin life anew. Most of them were
too poor to think of going to England, and the British provinces to the north seemed the most
hopeful place of resort. In 1782 several associations were formed in New York for the purpose
of furthering the interests of those who proposed to settle in Nova Scotia. One of these associations
had as its president the famous Dr Seabury, and as its secretary Sampson Salter Blowers, afterwards
chief justice of Nova Scotia. Its officers waited on Sir Guy Carleton, and received his approval
of their plans. It was arranged that a first instalment of about five hundred colonists should
set out in the autumn of 1782, in charge of three agents, Amos Botsford, Samuel Cummings, and
Frederick Hauser, whose duty it should be to spy out the land and obtain grants.

The party sailed from New York, in nine transport ships, on October 19, 1782, and arrived a
few days later at Annapolis Royal. The population of Annapolis, which was only a little over
a hundred, was soon swamped by the numbers that poured out of the transports. 'All the houses
and barracks are crowded,' wrote the Rev. Jacob Bailey, who was then at Annapolis, 'and many
are unable to procure any lodgings.' The three agents, leaving the colonists at Annapolis,
went first to Halifax, and then set out on a trip of exploration through the Annapolis valley,
after which they crossed the Bay of Fundy and explored the country adjacent to the river St
John. On their return they published glowing accounts of the country, and their report was
transmitted to their friends in New York.

The result of the favourable reports sent in by these agents, and by others who had gone ahead,
was an invasion of Nova Scotia such as no one, not even the provincial authorities, had begun
to expect. As the names of the thousands who were anxious to go to Nova Scotia poured into
the adjutant-general's office in New York, it became clear to Sir Guy Carleton that with the
shipping facilities at his disposal he could not attempt to transport them all at once. It
was decided that the ships would have to make two trips; and, as a matter of fact, most of
them made three or four trips before the last British soldier was able to leave the New York shore.

On April 26, 1783, the first or 'spring' fleet set sail. It had on board no less than seven
thousand persons, men, women, children, and servants. Half of these went to the mouth of the
river St John, and about half to Port Roseway, at the south-west end of the Nova Scotian peninsula.
The voyage was fair, and the ships arrived at their destinations without mishap. But at St
John at least, the colonists found that almost no preparations had been made to receive them.
They were disembarked on a wild and primeval shore, where they had to clear away the brushwood
before they could pitch their tents or build their shanties. The prospect must have been disheartening.
In June the 'summer fleet' brought about 2,500 colonists to St John River, Annapolis, Port
Roseway, and Fort Cumberland. By August 23 John Parr, the governor of Nova Scotia, wrote that
'upward of 12,000 souls have already arrived from New York,' and that as many more were expected.
By the end of September he estimated that 18,000 had arrived, and stated that 10,000 more were
still to come. By the end of the year he computed the total immigration to have amounted to
30,000. As late as January 15, 1784, the refugees were still arriving. On that date Governor
Parr wrote to Lord North announcing the arrival of 'a considerable number of Refugee families,
who must be provided for in and about the town at extraordinary expence, as at this season
of the year I cannot send them into the country.' 'I cannot,' he added, 'better describe the
wretched condition of these people than by inclosing your lordship a list of those just arrived
in the Clinton transport, destitute of almost everything, chiefly women and children, all still
on board, as I have not yet been able to find any sort of place for them, and the cold setting
in severe.' There is a tradition in Halifax that the cabooses had to be taken off the ships,
and ranged along the principal street, in order to shelter these unfortunates during the winter.

New York was evacuated by the British troops on November 25, 1783. Sir Guy Carleton did not
withdraw from the city until he was satisfied that every person who desired the protection
of the British flag was embarked on the boats. During the latter half of the year Carleton
was repeatedly requested by Congress to fix some precise limit to his occupation of New York.
He replied briefly, but courteously, that he was doing the best he could, and that no man could
do more. When Congress objected that the Loyalists were not included in the agreement with
regard to evacuation, Carleton replied that he held opposite views; and that in any case it
was a point of honour with him that no troops should embark until the last person who claimed
his protection should be safely on board a British ship. As time went on, his replies to Congress
grew shorter and more incisive. On being requested to name an outside date for the evacuation
of the city, he declared that he could not even guess when the last ship would be loaded, but
that he was resolved to remain until it was. He pointed out, moreover, that the more the uncontrolled
violence of their citizens drove refugees to his protection, the longer would evacuation be
delayed. In 1784 and 1785 there arrived a few persons who had tried to take up the thread of
their former life in the colonies, but had given up the attempt. And in August 1784 the Sally
transport from London cast anchor at Halifax with three hundred destitute refugees on board.
'As if there was not a sufficiency of such distress'd objects already in this country,' wrote
Edward Winslow from Halifax, 'the good people of England have collected a whole ship load of
all kinds of vagrants from the streets of London, and sent them out to Nova Scotia. Great numbers
died on the passage of various disorders--the miserable remnant are landed here and have now
no covering but tents. Such as are able to crawl are begging for a proportion of provisions
at my door.'

But the increase of population in Nova Scotia from immigration during the years immediately
following 1783 was partly counterbalanced by the defections from the province. Many of the
refugees quailed before the prospect of carving out a home in the wilderness. 'It is, I think,
the roughest land I ever saw'; 'I am totally discouraged'; 'I am sick of this Province'--such
expressions as these abound in the journals and diaries of the settlers. There were complaints
that deception had been practised. 'All our golden promises,' wrote a Long Island Loyalist,
'are vanished in smoke. We were taught to believe this place was not barren and foggy as had
been represented, but we find it ten times worse. We have nothing but his Majesty's rotten
pork and unbaked flour to subsist on... It is the most inhospitable clime that ever mortal
set foot on.' At first there was great distress among the refugees. The immigration of 1783
had at one stroke trebled the population of Nova Scotia; and the resources of the province
were inadequate to meet the demand on them. 'Nova Scarcity' was the nickname for the province
invented by a New England wit. Under these circumstances it is not surprising that some who
had set their hand to the plough turned back. Some of them went to Upper Canada; some to England;
some to the states from which they had come; for within a few years the fury of the anti-Loyalist
feeling died down, and not a few Loyalists took advantage of this to return to the place of
their birth.

The most careful analysis of the Loyalist immigration into the Maritime Provinces has placed
the total number of immigrants at about 35,000. These were in settlements scattered broadcast
over the face of the map. There was a colony of 3,000 in Cape Breton, which afforded an ideal
field for settlement, since before 1783 the governor of Nova Scotia had been precluded from
granting lands there. In 1784 Cape Breton was erected into a separate government, with a lieutenant-governor
of its own; and settlers flocked into it from Halifax, and even from Canada. Abraham Cuyler,
formerly mayor of Albany, led a considerable number down the St Lawrence and through the Gulf
to Cape Breton. On the mainland of Nova Scotia there were settlements at Halifax, at Shelburne,
at Fort Cumberland, at Annapolis and Digby; at Port Mouton, and at other places. In what is
now New Brunswick there was a settlement at Passamaquoddy Bay, and there were other settlements
on the St John river extending from the mouth up past what is now the city of Fredericton.
In Prince Edward Island, then called the Island of St John, there was a settlement which is
variously estimated in size, but which was comparatively unimportant.

The most interesting of these settlements was that at Shelburne, which is situated at the south-west
corner of Nova Scotia, on one of the finest harbours of the Atlantic seaboard. The name of
the harbour was originally Port Razoir, but this was corrupted by the English settlers into
Port Roseway. The place had been settled previous to 1783. In 1775 Colonel Alexander McNutt,
a notable figure of the pre-Loyalist days in Nova Scotia, had obtained a grant of 100,000 acres
about the harbour, and had induced about a dozen Scottish and Irish families to settle there.
This settlement he had dignified with the name of New Jerusalem. In a short time, however,
New Jerusalem languished and died, and when the Loyalists arrived in May 1783, the only inhabitants
of the place were two or three fishermen and their families. It would have been well if the
Loyalists had listened to the testimony of one of these men, who, when he was asked how he
came to be there, replied that 'poverty had brought him there, and poverty had kept him there.'

