XLIV   Anecdotes of Poverty, and Experiments for the Benefit of
              those whom it may concern
      XLV   Renaldo's Distress deepens, and Fathom's Plot thickens
     XLVI   Our Adventurer becomes absolute in his Power over the
              Passions of his Friend, and effects one half of his Aim
    XLVII   The Art of Borrowing further explained, and an Account of a
              Strange Phenomenon
   XLVIII   Count Fathom unmasks his Battery; is repulsed; and varies his
              Operations without effect
     XLIX   Monimia's Honour is protected by the Interposition of Heaven
        L   Fathom shifts the Scene, and appears in a new Character
       LI   Triumphs over a Medical Rival
      LII   Repairs to the Metropolis, and enrols himself among the
              Sons of Paean
     LIII   Acquires Employment in consequence of a lucky Miscarriage
      LIV   His Eclipse, and gradual Declination
       LV   After divers unsuccessful Efforts, he has recourse to the
              Matrimonial Noose
      LVI   In which his Fortune is effectually strangled
     LVII   Fathom being safely housed, the Reader is entertained with
              a Retrospect
    LVIII   Renaldo abridges the Proceedings at Law, and approves himself
              the Son of his Father
      LIX   He is the Messenger of Happiness to his Sister, who removes
              the film which had long obstructed his Penetration, with
              regard to Count Fathom
       LX   He recompenses the Attachment of his Friend; and receives
              a Letter that reduces him to the Verge of Death and
              Distraction
      LXI   Renaldo meets with a living Monument of Justice, and
              encounters a Personage of some Note in these Memoirs
     LXII   His Return to England, and Midnight Pilgrimage to Monimia's
              Tomb
    LXIII   He renews the Rites of Sorrow, and is entranced
     LXIV   The Mystery unfolded--Another Recognition, which, it is to be
              hoped, the Reader could not foresee
      LXV   A retrospective Link, necessary for the Concatenation of
              these Memoirs
     LXVI   The History draws near a Period
    LXVII   The Longest and the Last

THE ADVENTURES OF FERDINAND COUNT FATHOM

CHAPTER THIRTY-NINE

OUR ADVENTURER IS MADE ACQUAINTED WITH A NEW SCENE OF LIFE.

Just as he entered these mansions of misery, his ears were invaded with a hoarse and dreadful
voice, exclaiming, "You, Bess Beetle, score a couple of fresh eggs, a pennyworth of butter,
and half a pint of mountain to the king; and stop credit till the bill is paid:--He is now
debtor for fifteen shillings and sixpence, and d--n me if I trust him one farthing more, if
he was the best king in Christendom.  And, d'ye hear, send Ragged-head with five pounds of
potatoes for Major Macleaver's supper, and let him have what drink he wants; the fat widow
gentlewoman from Pimlico has promised to quit his score.  Sir Mungo Barebones may have some
hasty pudding and small beer, though I don't expect to see his coin, no more than to receive
the eighteen pence I laid out for a pair of breeches to his backside--what then? he's a quiet
sort of a body, and a great scholar, and it was a scandal to the place to see him going about
in that naked condition.  As for the mad Frenchman with the beard, if you give him so much
as a cheese-paring, you b--ch, I'll send you back to the hole, among your old companions; an
impudent dog!  I'll teach him to draw his sword upon the governor of an English county jail.
What! I suppose he thought he had to do with a French hang-tang-dang, rabbit him! he shall
eat his white feather, before I give him credit for a morsel of bread."

Although our adventurer was very little disposed, at this juncture, to make observations foreign
to his own affairs, he could not help taking notice of these extraordinary injunctions; especially
those concerning the person who was entitled king, whom, however, he supposed to be some prisoner
elected as the magistrate by the joint suffrage of his fellows. Having taken possession of
his chamber, which he rented at five shillings a week, and being ill at ease in his own thoughts,
he forthwith secured his door, undressed, and went to bed, in which, though it was none of
the most elegant or inviting couches, he enjoyed profound repose after the accumulated fatigues
and mortifications of the day.  Next morning, after breakfast, the keeper entered his apartment,
and gave him to understand, that the gentlemen under his care, having heard of the Count's
arrival, had deputed one of their number to wait upon him with the compliments of condolence
suitable to the occasion, and invite him to become a member of their society.  Our hero could
not politely dispense with this instance of civility, and their ambassador being instantly
introduced by the name of Captain Minikin, saluted him with great solemnity.

This was a person equally remarkable for his extraordinary figure and address; his age seemed
to border upon forty, his stature amounted to five feet, his visage was long, meagre, and weather-beaten,
and his aspect, though not quite rueful, exhibited a certain formality, which was the result
of care and conscious importance.  He was very little encumbered with flesh and blood; yet
what body he had was well proportioned, his limbs were elegantly turned, and by his carriage
he was well entitled to that compliment which we pay to any person when we say he has very
much the air of a gentleman.  There was also an evident singularity in his dress, which, though
intended as an improvement, appeared to be an extravagant exaggeration of the mode, and at
once evinced him an original to the discerning eyes of our adventurer, who received him with
his usual complaisance, and made a very eloquent acknowledgment of the honour and satisfaction
he received from the visit of the representative, and the hospitality of his constituents.
The captain's peculiarities were not confined to his external appearance; for his voice resembled
the sound of a bassoon, or the aggregate hum of a whole bee-hive, and his discourse was almost
nothing else than a series of quotations from the English poets, interlarded with French phrases,
which he retained for their significance, on the recommendation of his friends, being himself
unacquainted with that or any other outlandish tongue.

Fathom, finding this gentleman of a very communicative disposition, thought he could not have
a fairer opportunity of learning the history of his fellow-prisoners; and, turning the conversation
on that subject, was not disappointed in his expectation.  "I don't doubt, sir," said he, with
the utmost solemnity of declamation, "but you look with horror upon every object that surrounds
you in this uncomfortable place; but, nevertheless, here are some, who, as my friend Shakespeare
has it, have seen better days, and have with holy bell been knolled to church; and sat at good
men's feasts, and wiped their eyes of drops that sacred pity hath engendered.  You must know,
sir, that, exclusive of the canaille, or the profanum vulgus, as they are styled by Horace,
there are several small communities in the jail, consisting of people who are attracted by
the manners and dispositions of each other; for this place, sir, is quite a microcosm, and
as the great world, so is this, a stage, and all the men and women merely players.  For my
own part, sir, I have always made it a maxim to associate with the best of company I can find.
Not that I pretend to boast of my family or extraction; because, you know, as the poet says,
Vix ea nostra voco.  My father, 'tis true, was a man that piqued himself upon his pedigree,
as well as upon his politesse and personal merit; for he had been a very old officer in the
army, and I myself may say I was born with a spontoon in my hand.  Sir, I have had the honour
to serve his Majesty these twenty years, and have been bandied about in the course of duty
through all the British plantations, and you see the recompense of all my service.  But this
is a disagreeable subject, and therefore I shall waive it; however, as Butler observes:

     My only comfort is, that now
     My dubbolt fortune is so low,
     That either it must quickly end,
     Or turn about again and mend.

"And now, to return from this digression, you will perhaps be surprised to hear that the head
or chairman of our club is really a sovereign prince; no less, I'll assure you, than the celebrated
Theodore king of Corsica, who lies in prison for a debt of a few hundred pounds.  Heu! quantum
mutatus ab illo.  It is not my business to censure the conduct of my superiors; but I always
speak my mind in a cavalier manner, and as, according to the Spectator, talking to a friend
is no more than thinking aloud, entre nous, his Corsican majesty has been scurvily treated
by a certain administration.  Be that as it will, he is a personage of a very portly appearance,
and is quite master of the bienseance.  Besides, they will find it their interest to have recourse
again to his alliance; and in that case some of us may expect to profit by his restoration.
But few words are best.

"He that maintains the second rank in our assembly is one Major Macleaver, an Irish gentleman,
who has served abroad; a soldier of fortune, sir, a man of unquestionable honour and courage,
but a little overbearing, in consequence of his knowledge and experience.  He is a person of
good address,--to be sure, and quite free of the mauvaise honte, and he may have seen a good
deal of service.  But what then? other people may be as good as he, though they have not had
such opportunities; if he speaks five or six languages, he does not pretend to any taste in
the liberal arts, which are the criterion of an accomplished gentleman.

"The next is Sir Mungo Barebones, the representative of a very ancient family in the north;
his affairs are very much deranged, but he is a gentleman of great probity and learning, and
at present engaged in a very grand scheme, which, if he can bring it to bear, will render him
famous to all posterity; no less than the conversion of the Jews and the Gentiles.  The project,
I own, looks chimerical to one who has not conversed with the author; but, in my opinion, he
has clearly demonstrated, from an anagrammatical analysis of a certain Hebrew word, that his
present Majesty, whom God preserve, is the person pointed at in Scripture as the temporal Messiah
of the Jews; and, if he could once raise by subscription such a trifling sum as twelve hundred
thousand pounds, I make no doubt but he would accomplish his aim, vast and romantic as it seems
to be.

"Besides these, we have another messmate, who is a French chevalier, an odd sort of a man,
a kind of Lazarillo de Tormes, a caricatura; he wears a long beard, pretends to be a great
poet, and makes a d---ed fracas with his verses.  The king has been obliged to exert his authority
over him more than once, by ordering him into close confinement, for which he was so rash as
to send his majesty a challenge; but he afterwards made his submission, and was again taken
into favour.  The truth is, I believe his brain is a little disordered, and, he being a stranger,
we overlook his extravagancies.

"Sir, we shall think ourselves happy in your accession to our society. You will be under no
sort of restraint; for, though we dine at one table, every individual calls and pays for his
own mess.  Nor are we destitute of friends, who visit us in these shades of distress.  The
major has a numerous acquaintance of both sexes; among others, a first cousin of good fortune,
who, with her daughters, often cheer our solitude; she is a very sensible ladylike gentlewoman,
and the young ladies have a certain degagee air, that plainly shows they have seen the best
company.  Besides, I will venture to recommend Mrs. Minikin as a woman of tolerable breeding
and capacity, who, I hope, will not be found altogether deficient in the accomplishments of
the sex.  So that we find means to make little parties, in which the time glides away insensibly.
Then I have a small collection of books which are at your service.

A man of our hero's politeness could not help expressing himself in the warmest terms of gratitude
for this courteous declaration.  He thanked the captain in particular for his obliging offers,
and begged he would be so good as to present his respects to the society, of which he longed
to be a member.  It was determined, therefore, that Minikin should return in an hour, when
the Count would be dressed, in order to conduct him into the presence of his majesty; and he
had already taken his leave for the present, when all of a sudden he came back, and taking
hold of a waistcoat that lay upon a chair, "Sir," said he, "give me leave to look at that fringe;
I think it is the most elegant knitting I ever saw.  But pray, sir, are not these quite out
of fashion?  I thought plain silk, such as this that I wear, had been the mode, with the pockets
very low." Before Fathom had time to make any sort of reply, he took notice of his hat and
pumps; the first of which, he said, was too narrow in the brims, and the last an inch too low
in the heels.  Indeed, they formed a remarkable contrast with his own; for, exclusive of the
fashion of the cock, which resembled the form of a Roman galley, the brim of his hat, if properly
spread, would have projected a shade sufficient to shelter a whole file of musketeers from
the heat of a summer's sun; and the heels of his shoes were so high as to raise his feet three
inches at least from the surface of the earth.

Having made these observations, for the credit of his taste, he retired, and returning at the
time appointed, accompanied Ferdinand to the apartment of the king, at the doors of which their
ears were invaded with a strange sound, being that of a human voice imitating the noise of
a drum.  The captain, hearing this alarm, made a full stop, and, giving the Count to understand
that his majesty was busy, begged he would not take it amiss, if the introduction should be
delayed for a few moments. Fathom, curious to know the meaning of what he had heard, applied
to his guide for information, and learned that the king and the major, whom he had nominated
to the post of his general-in-chief, were employed in landing troops upon the Genoese territory;
that is, that they were settling beforehand the manner of their disembarkation.

He then, by the direction of his conductor, reconnoitred them through the keyhole, and perceived
the sovereign and his minister sitting on opposite sides of a deal board table, covered with
a large chart or map, upon which he saw a great number of mussel and oyster shells ranged in
a certain order, and, at a little distance, several regular squares and columns made of cards
cut in small pieces.  The prince himself, whose eyes were reinforced by spectacles, surveyed
this armament with great attention, while the general put the whole in action, and conducted
their motions by beat of drum.  The mussel-shells, according to Minikin's explanation, represented
the transports, the oyster-shells were considered as the men-of-war that covered the troops
in landing, and the pieces of card exhibited the different bodies into which the army was formed
upon its disembarkation.

As an affair of such consequence could not be transacted without opposition, they had provided
divers ambuscades, consisting of the enemy, whom they represented by grey peas; and accordingly
General Macleaver, perceiving the said grey peas marching along shore to attack his forces
before they could be drawn up in battalia, thus addressed himself to the oyster-shells, in
an audible voice:--"You men-of-war, don't you see the front of the enemy advancing, and the
rest of the detachment following out of sight?  Arrah! the devil burn you, why don't you come
ashore and open your batteries?"  So saying, he pushed the shells towards the breach, performed
the cannonading with his voice, the grey peas were soon put in confusion, the general was beat,
the cards marched forwards in order of battle, and the enemy having retreated with great precipitation,
they took possession of their ground without farther difficulty.

CHAPTER FORTY

HE CONTEMPLATES MAJESTY AND ITS SATELLITES IN ECLIPSE.

This expedition being happily finished, General Macleaver put the whole army, navy, transports,
and scene of action into a canvas bag, the prince unsaddled his nose, and Captain Minikin being
admitted, our hero was introduced in form.  Very gracious was the reception he met with from
his majesty, who, with a most princely demeanour, welcomed him to court, and even seated him
on his right hand, in token of particular regard.  True it is, this presence-chamber was not
so superb, nor the appearance of the king so magnificent, as to render such an honour intoxicating
to any person of our hero's coolness and discretion.  In lieu of tapestry, the apartment was
hung with halfpenny ballads, a truckle-bed without curtains supplied the place of a canopy,
and instead of a crown his majesty wore a woollen night-cap.  Yet, in spite of these disadvantages,
there was an air of dignity in his deportment, and a nice physiognomist would have perceived
something majestic in the features of his countenance.

He was certainly a personage of very prepossessing mien; his manners were engaging, his conversation
agreeable, and any man whose heart was subject to the meltings of humanity would have deplored
his distress, and looked upon him as a most pathetic instance of that miserable reverse to
which all human grandeur is exposed.  His fall was even greater than that of Belisarius, who,
after having obtained many glorious victories over the enemies of his country, is said to have
been reduced to such extremity of indigence, that, in his old age, when he was deprived of
his eyesight, he sat upon the highway like a common mendicant, imploring the charity of passengers
in the piteous exclamation of Date obolum Belisario; that is, "Spare a farthing to your poor
old soldier Belisarius."  I say, this general's disgrace was not so remarkable as that of Theodore,
because he was the servant of Justinian, consequently his fortune depended upon the nod of
that emperor; whereas the other actually possessed the throne of sovereignty by the best of
all titles, namely, the unanimous election of the people over whom he reigned; and attracted
the eyes of all Europe, by the efforts he made in breaking the bands of oppression, and vindicating
that liberty which is the birthright of man.

The English of former days, alike renowned for generosity and valour, treated those hostile
princes, whose fate it was to wear their chains, with such delicacy of benevolence, as even
dispelled the horrors of captivity; but their posterity of this refined age feel no compunction
at seeing an unfortunate monarch, their former friend, ally, and partisan, languish amidst
the miseries of a loathsome jail, for a paltry debt contracted in their own service.  But,
moralising apart, our hero had not long conversed with this extraordinary debtor, who in his
present condition assumed no other title than that of Baron, than he perceived in him a spirit
of Quixotism, which all his experience, together with the vicissitudes of his fortune, had
not been able to overcome.  Not that his ideas soared to such a pitch of extravagant hope as
that which took possession of his messmates, who frequently quarrelled one with another about
the degrees of favour to which they should be entitled after the king's restoration; but he
firmly believed that affairs would speedily take such a turn in Italy, as would point out to
the English court the expediency of employing him again; and his persuasion seemed to support
him against every species of poverty and mortification.

While they were busy in trimming the balance of power on the other side of the Alps, their
deliberations were interrupted by the arrival of a scullion, who came to receive their orders
touching the bill of fare for dinner, and his majesty found much more difficulty in settling
this important concern, than in compromising all the differences between the Emperor and the
Queen of Spain.  At length, however, General Macleaver undertook the office of purveyor for
his prince; Captain Minikin insisted upon treating the Count; and in a little time the table
was covered with a cloth, which, for the sake of my delicate readers, I will not attempt to
describe.

At this period they were joined by Sir Mungo Barebones, who, having found means to purchase
a couple of mutton chops, had cooked a mess of broth, which he now brought in a saucepan to
the general rendezvous.  This was the most remarkable object which had hitherto presented itself
to the eyes of Fathom.  Being naturally of a meagre habit, he was, by indigence and hard study,
wore almost to the bone, and so bended towards the earth, that in walking his body described
at least 150 degrees of a circle.  The want of stockings and shoes he supplied with a jockey
straight boot and an half jack.  His thighs and middle were cased in a monstrous pair of brown
trunk breeches, which the keeper bought for his use from the executor of a Dutch seaman who
had lately died in the jail.  His shirt retained no signs of its original colour, his body
was shrouded in an old greasy tattered plaid nightgown; a blue and white handkerchief surrounded
his head, and his looks betokened that immense load of care which he had voluntarily incurred
for the eternal salvation of sinners.  Yet this figure, uncouth as it was, made his compliments
to our adventurer in terms of the most elegant address, and, in the course of conversation,
disclosed a great fund of valuable knowledge.  He had appeared in the great world, and borne
divers offices of dignity and trust with universal applause.  His courage was undoubted, his
morals were unimpeached, and his person held in great veneration and esteem; when his evil
genius engaged him in the study of Hebrew, and the mysteries of the Jewish religion, which
fairly disordered his brain, and rendered him incapable of managing his temporal affairs. 
When he ought to have been employed in the functions of his post, he was always wrapt in visionary
conferences with Moses on the Mount; rather than regulate the economy of his household, he
chose to exert his endeavours in settling the precise meaning of the word Elohim; and having
discovered that now the period was come, when the Jews and Gentiles would be converted, he
postponed every other consideration, in order to facilitate that great and glorious event.

By this time Ferdinand had seen every member of the club, except the French chevalier, who
seemed to be quite neglected by the society; for his name was not once mentioned during this
communication, and they sat down to dinner, without asking whether he was dead or alive.  The
king regaled himself with a plate of ox-cheek; the major, who complained that his appetite
had forsaken him, amused himself with some forty hard eggs, malaxed with salt butter; the knight
indulged upon his soup and bouilli, and the captain entertained our adventurer with a neck
of veal roasted with potatoes; but before Fathom could make use of his knife and fork, he was
summoned to the door, where he found the chevalier in great agitation, his eyes sparkling like
coals of fire.

Our hero was not a little surprised at this apparition, who, having asked pardon for the freedom
he had used, observed, that, understanding the Count was a foreigner, he could not dispense
with appealing to him concerning an outrage he had suffered from the keeper, who, without any
regard to his rank or misfortunes, had been base enough to refuse him credit for a few necessaries,
until he could have a remittance from his steward in France; he therefore conjured Count Fathom,
as a stranger and nobleman like himself, to be the messenger of defiance, which he resolved
to send to that brutal jailor, that, for the future, he might learn to make proper distinctions
in the exercise of his function.

Fathom, who had no inclination to offend this choleric Frenchman, assured him that he might
depend upon his friendship; and, in the meantime, prevailed upon him to accept of a small supply,
in consequence of which he procured a pound of sausages, and joined the rest of the company
without delay; making a very suitable addition to such an assemblage of rarities.  Though his
age did not exceed thirty years, his beard, which was of a brindled hue, flowed down, like
Aaron's, to his middle.  Upon his legs he wore red stockings rolled up over the joint of the
knee, his breeches were of blue drab, with vellum button-holes, and garters of gold lace, his
waistcoat of scarlet, his coat of rusty black cloth, his hair, twisted into a ramilie, hung
down to his rump, of the colour of jet, and his hat was adorned with a white feather.

This original had formed many ingenious schemes to increase the glory and grandeur of France,
but was discouraged by Cardinal Fleury, who, in all appearance, jealous of his great talents,
not only rejected his projects, but even sent him to prison, on pretence of being offended
at his impertinence.  Perceiving that, like the prophet, he had no honour in his own country,
he no sooner obtained his release, than he retired to England, where he was prompted by his
philanthropy to propose an expedient to our ministry, which would have saved a vast effusion
of blood and treasure; this was an agreement between the Queen of Hungary and the late Emperor,
to decide their pretensions by a single combat; in which case he offered himself as the Bavarian
champion; but in this endeavour he also proved unsuccessful.  Then turning his attention to
the delights of poetry, he became so enamoured of the muse, that he neglected every other consideration,
and she as usual gradually conducted him to the author's never-failing goal--a place of rest
appointed for all those sinners whom the profane love of poesy hath led astray.

CHAPTER FORTY-ONE

ONE QUARREL IS COMPROMISED, AND ANOTHER DECIDED BY UNUSUAL ARMS.

Among other topics of conversation that were discussed at this genial meeting, Sir Mungo's
scheme was brought upon the carpet by his majesty, who was graciously pleased to ask how his
subscription filled?  To this interrogation the knight answered, that he met with great opposition
from a spirit of levity and self-conceit, which seemed to prevail in this generation, but that
no difficulties should discourage him from persevering in his duty; and he trusted in God,
that, in a very little time, he should be able to confute and overthrow the false philosophy
of the moderns, and to restore the writings of Moses to that pre-eminence and veneration which
is due to an inspired author.  He spoke of the immortal Newton with infinite contempt, and
undertook to extract from the Pentateuch a system of chronology which would ascertain the progress
of time since the fourth day of the creation to the present hour, with such exactness, that
not one vibration of a pendulum should be lost; nay, he affirmed that the perfection of all
arts and sciences might be attained by studying these secret memoirs, and that he himself did
not despair of learning from them the art of transmuting baser metals into gold.

The chevalier, though he did not pretend to contradict these assertions, was too much attached
to his own religion to acquiesce in the knight's project of converting the Jews and the Gentiles
to the Protestant heresy, which, he said, God Almighty would never suffer to triumph over the
interests of his own Holy Catholic Church.  This objection produced abundance of altercation
between two very unequal disputants; and the Frenchman, finding himself puzzled by the learning
of his antagonist, had recourse to the argumentum ad hominem, by laying his hand upon his sword,
and declaring that he was ready to lose the last drop of his blood in opposition to such a
damnable scheme.

Sir Mungo, though in all appearance reduced to the last stage of animal existence, no sooner
heard this epithet applied to his plan, than his eyes gleamed like lightning, he sprung from
his seat with the agility of a grasshopper, and, darting himself out at the door like an arrow
from a bow, reappeared in a moment with a long rusty weapon, which might have been shown among
a collection of rarities as the sword of Guy Earl of Warwick.  This implement he brandished
over the chevalier's head with the dexterity of an old prize-fighter, exclaiming, in the French
language, "Thou art a profane wretch marked out for the vengeance of Heaven, whose unworthy
minister I am, and here thou shalt fall by the sword of the Lord and of Gideon."

The chevalier, unterrified by this dreadful salutation, desired he would accompany him to a
more convenient place; and the world might have been deprived of one or both these knights-errant,
had not General Macleaver, at the desire of his majesty, interposed, and found means to bring
matters to an accommodation.

In the afternoon the society was visited by the major's cousin and her daughters, who no sooner
appeared than they were recognised by our adventurer, and his acquaintance with them renewed
in such a manner as alarmed the delicacy of Captain Minikin, who in the evening repaired to
the Count's apartment, and with a formal physiognomy, accosted him in these words: "Sir, I
beg pardon for this intrusion, but I come to consult you about an affair in which my honour
is concerned; and a soldier without honour, you know, is no better than a body without a soul.
But, without any further preamble, pray, sir, give me leave to ask how long you have been acquainted
with those ladies who drank tea with us this afternoon.  You'll forgive the question, sir,
when I tell you that Major Macleaver introduced Mrs. Minikin to them as to ladies of character,
and, I don't know how, sir, I have a sort of presentiment that my wife has been imposed upon.
Perhaps I may be mistaken, and God grant I may.  But there was a je ne sais quoi in their behaviour
to-day, which begins to alarm my suspicion.  Sir, I have nothing but my reputation to depend
upon, and I hope you will excuse me, when I earnestly beg to know what rank they maintain in life."

Fathom, without minding the consequence, told him, with a simper, that he knew them to be very
good-natured ladies, who devoted themselves to the happiness of mankind.  This explanation
had no sooner escaped from his lips, than the captain's face began to glow with indignation,
his eyes seemed bursting from their spheres, he swelled to twice his natural dimensions, and,
raising himself on his tiptoes, pronounced, in a strain that emulated thunder, "Blood! sir,
you seem to make very light of the matter, but it is no joke to me, I'll assure you, and Macleaver
shall see that I am not to be affronted with impunity.  Sir, I shall take it as a singular
favour if you will be the bearer of a billet to him, which I shall write in three words; nay,
sir, you must give me leave to insist upon it, as you are the only gentleman of our mess whom
I can intrust with an affair of this nature."

Fathom, rather than run the risk of disobliging such a punctilious warrior, after having in
vain attempted to dissuade him from his purpose, undertook to carry the challenge, which was
immediately penned in these words:

"SIR,--You have violated my honour in imposing upon Mrs. Minikin your pretended cousins as
ladies of virtue and reputation.  I therefore demand such satisfaction as a soldier ought to
receive, and expect you will adjust with my friend Count Fathom the terms upon which you shall
be met by the much injured                          GOLIAH MINIKIN."

This morceau being sealed and directed, was forthwith carried by our adventurer to the lodgings
of the major, who had by this time retired to rest, but hearing the Count's voice, he got up
and opened the door in cuerpo, to the astonishment of Ferdinand, who had never before seen
such an Herculean figure.  He made an apology for receiving the Count in his birthday suit,
to which he said he was reduced by the heat of his constitution, though he might have assigned
a more adequate cause, by owning that his shirt was in the hands of his washerwoman; then shrouding
himself in a blanket, desired to know what had procured him the honour of such an extraordinary
visit.  He read the letter with great composure, like a man accustomed to such intercourse;
then addressing himself to the bearer, "I will be after diverting the gentleman," said he,
"in any manner he shall think proper; but, by Jesus, this is no place for such amusements,
because, as you well know, my dear Count, if both should be killed by the chance of war, neither
of us will be able to escape, and after the breath is out of his body, he will make but a sorry
excuse to his family and friends.  But that is no concern of mine, and therefore I am ready
to please him in his own way."

Fathom approved of his remarks, which he reinforced with sundry considerations, to the same
purpose, and begged the assistance of the major's advice, in finding some expedient to terminate
the affair without bloodshed, that no troublesome consequences might ensue either to him or
to his antagonist, who, in spite of this overstraining formality, seemed to be a person of
worth and good-nature.  "With all my heart," said the generous Hibernian, "I have a great regard
for the little man, and my own character is not to seek at this time of day.  I have served
a long apprenticeship to fighting, as this same carcase can testify, and if he compels me to
run him through the body, by my shoul, I shall do it in a friendly manner."

So saying, he threw aside the blanket, and displayed scars and seams innumerable upon his body,
which appeared like an old patched leathern doublet.  "I remember," proceeded this champion,
"when I was a slave at Algiers, Murphy Macmorris and I happened to have some difference in
the bagnio, upon which he bade me turn out.  'Arra, for what?' said I; 'here are no weapons
that a gentleman can use, and you would not be such a negro as to box like an English carman.'
After he had puzzled himself for some time, he proposed that we should retire into a corner,
and funk one another with brimstone, till one of us should give out.  Accordingly we crammed
half a dozen tobacco pipes with sulphur, and, setting foot to foot, began to smoke, and kept
a constant fire, until Macmorris dropped down; then I threw away my pipe, and taking poor Murphy
in my arms, 'What, are you dead?' said I; 'if you are dead, speak.'  'No, by Jesus!' cried
he, 'I an't dead, but I'm speechless.'  So he owned I had obtained the victory, and we were
as good friends as ever.  Now, if Mr. Minikin thinks proper to put the affair upon the same
issue, I will smoke a pipe of brimstone with him to-morrow morning, and if I cry out first,
I will be after asking pardon for this supposed affront."

Fathom could not help laughing at the proposal, to which, however, he objected on account of
Minikin's delicate constitution, which might suffer more detriment from breathing in an atmosphere
of sulphur than from the discharge of a pistol, or the thrust of a small sword.  He therefore
suggested another expedient in lieu of the sulphur, namely, the gum called assafatida, which,
though abundantly nauseous, could have no effect upon the infirm texture of the lieutenant's
lungs.  This hint being relished by the major, our adventurer returned to his principal, and
having repeated the other's arguments against the use of mortal instruments, described the
succedaneum which he had concerted with Macleaver.  The captain at first believed the scheme
was calculated for subjecting him to the ridicule of his fellow-prisoners, and began to storm
with great violence; but, by the assurances and address of Fathom, he was at length reconciled
to the plan, and preparations were made on each side for this duel, which was actually smoked
next day, about noon, in a small closet, detached from the challenger's apartment, and within
hearing of his majesty, and all his court, assembled as witnesses and umpires of the contest.

The combatants, being locked up together, began to ply their engines with great fury, and it
was not long before Captain Minikin perceived he had a manifest advantage over his antagonist.
For his organs were familiarised to the effluvia of this drug, which he had frequently used
in the course of an hypochondriac disorder; whereas Macleaver, who was a stranger to all sorts
of medicine, by his wry faces and attempts to puke, expressed the utmost abhorrence of the
smell that invaded his nostrils. Nevertheless, resolved to hold out to the last extremity,
he continued in action until the closet was filled with such an intolerable vapour as discomposed
the whole economy of his entrails, and compelled him to disgorge his breakfast in the face
of his opponent, whose nerves were so disconcerted by this disagreeable and unforeseen discharge,
that he fell back into his chair in a swoon, and the major bellowed aloud for assistance. 
The door being opened, he ran directly to the window, to inhale the fresh air, while the captain,
recovering from his fit, complained of Macleaver's unfair proceeding, and demanded justice
of the arbitrators, who decided in his favour; and the major being prevailed upon to ask pardon
for having introduced Mrs. Minikin to women of rotten reputation, the parties were reconciled
to each other, and peace and concord re-established in the mess.

Fathom acquired universal applause for his discreet and humane conduct upon this occasion;
and that same afternoon had an opportunity of seeing the lady in whose cause he had exerted
himself.  He was presented to her as the husband's particular friend, and when she understood
how much she was indebted to his care and concern for the captain's safety, she treated him
with uncommon marks of distinction; and he found her a genteel, well-bred woman, not without
a good deal of personal charms, and a well-cultivated understanding.

CHAPTER FORTY-TWO

AN UNEXPECTED RENCONTRE, AND A HAPPY REVOLUTION IN THE AFFAIRS OF OUR ADVENTURER.

