 In the morning, when they open the window overlooking the roof ... I would
like read it to you ... He says: "It was a beautiful morning in the month of May. It seemed that
Nature ...». = (With madness.) = In this knock on the door. It is
a footman with a letter full of bank notes. WHAT SADIE THOUGHT

CHAPTER III. FLORENCE VANE

CHAPTER IV. THE SUNDAY LESSON

CHAPTER V. THE POOR LITTLE FISH

CHAPTER VI. SOMETHING HAPPENS

CHAPTER VII. JOURNEYING

CHAPTER VIII. JOURNEY'S END

CHAPTER IX. COUSIN ABBIE

CHAPTER X. ESTER'S MINISTER

CHAPTER XI. THE NEW BOARDER

CHAPTER XII. THREE PEOPLE

CHAPTER XIII. THE STRANGE CHRISTIAN

CHAPTER XIV. THE LITTLE CARD

CHAPTER XV. WHAT IS THE DIFFERENCE?

CHAPTER XVI. A VICTORY

CHAPTER XVII. STEPPING BETWEEN

CHAPTER XVIII. LIGHT OUT OF DARKNESS

CHAPTER XIX. SUNDRIES

CHAPTER XX. AT HOME

CHAPTER XXI. TESTED

CHAPTER XXII. "LITTLE PLUM PIES"

CHAPTER XXIII. CROSSES

CHAPTER XXIV. GOD'S WAY

CHAPTER XXV. SADIE SURROUNDED

CHAPTER XXVI. CONFUSION--CROSS-BEARING--CONSEQUENCE

CHAPTER XXVII. THE TIME TO SLEEP

CHAPTER XXVIII. AT LAST

Ester Ried

ASLEEP AND AWAKE

CHAPTER I.

ESTER'S HOME.

She did not look very much as if she were asleep, nor acted as though she expected to get a
chance to be very soon. There was no end to the things which she had to do, for the kitchen
was long and wide, and took many steps to set it in order, and it was drawing toward tea-time
of a Tuesday evening, and there were fifteen boarders who were, most of them, punctual to a minute. I found him
more "human" than before, no doubt because it was also more depressed. Tempt him not desire speak,
nor was desirable provocársele as very expensive custom of Neluco, tell me I think by having
nothing else to occupy them there. It was certain that I had come really want to my uncle:
the view was what hurt me the seriousness of his condition and the danger he was in the hands
quedársenos when least expected, and yet the prospect of that number of bed days imposed by the doctor
to the patient, with Subject to that made me this extent, the scant and gloomy precincts of
that room, and tenacious, thick snow that had heaven in darkness, the earth without soil to
tread and imprisoned its inhabitants, I worried and hurt me why deny it! more. The heart frequently
vitiated human of these ailments, not evil itself, but for lack education of the feelings, disuse
of the most delicate of them, remnants of selfishness acquired the freedom of a life without
barriers and boundaries. I Explicábame that weakness, which seemed to grave sin, with these
thoughts, and they consoled me, although not as much as the hope that plans be made and come
Neluco Lita and her mother, Lita especially to relieve the weight of the cross, renewing the air
and faces and sounds and light up those areas sorrowful, silent, black and dreary. But lend
themselves to come Mari Pepa and her daughter, despite their good and charitable desires?
Is not arredrarían barriers of snow and cold, cold that he had not felt maybe I did in Russia, not
to be in Tablanca other recourse than to the kitchen and a bad brazier to fight him? I knew Mal
breaths tablanquesas ladies! By midmorning entered the door of the room of the house the daughter
and granddaughter of Don Pedro Nolasco, shortly after I heard if any "chirp" and fill the passage
of Argentina and harmonious voices. Also He had guessed my uncle.

- Jesus! ... The cellerisca! - He exclaimed, to hear, in a tone that showed more joy weigh.

I went to meet him and got a pinch without hiding the great joy that his visit gave me. The eyes
and nose were all that was seen of his people: all else was a conglomerate
skirts, jackets, shawls and woolen shawls thick and sweet.

Asking and saying, pray quietly (when it was undesirable that could hear my uncle), now almost
shouting (to agree hear it), were loosened head and discovering his face, until it appeared in
Lita (I saw little in the other) as moon in January between gray clouds, or more properly, as
an August apple wrapped in the leaves of the branch: this was coloradito of smooth and down the
roundness of her flesh there.

As they came well-informed and educated by Neluco, little or no talk about the role they corresponded
in the comedy that we were going to represent in front of the patient.

Don Pedro Nolasco was unable to accompany them, or rather, had not allowed them, for fear fall
would have been fatal in hombrazo of his years ... because they were the roads Virgin Mary,
our Mother! they were scary. It 'eslociaban "foot in the snow as eels in hand. Only on the
rise it had fallen scree (Lituca) twice, and the same knee that must have made a pity. I had not
seen it yet, but I could swear by what the "sting", but not preventing movement, thank God.
Moreover, they knew that the patient did not suit him talk, although the request: the Occasionally,
some chunga, as if evil was a joke, on time and with love, drugs and food, and to forgive
them if they openly for inviting us to eat, because they, under the pretext of the snow, had planned
to stay until night without Don Celso malice the truth of reason. They came equipped to do more
entertaining work hours remaining around the brazier.

My uncle were received with four jokes and some regrets. Although still alive, was given be
dead now. They protested against the course, assuring him that he had "lodging" then it was the
coldness of snow, and may also feel some of that would give the knowledge
of what happened on the mountain the day before.

- Do not deny it
- it answered my uncle - and therefore no two ways about what you
I said, for what can be expected as a man of my vein when left mayor,
as I am mayor, by tinkering like that?

It was the truth, but, nevertheless, insisted the women bonísimas deny it, but not the impetus
needed to achieve its charitable purposes, they were extremely affectionate
and were imposed and shaken before that exhaustion and that cadaverous
pallor the poor Don Celso, neither for the sake of maintaining their
rights ignored by professional tyranny of Neluco, remembered and rising.

They

left at last in the calm he needed instalámonos in the adjoining room, came gray woman with
encogollado brazier of glowing embers, put him in the box that was there, and we sat around it,
without losing sight of the sick, Mari Pepa, her daughter and me.

Mari Pepa got a very large pocket of her apron to the accoutrements of media; Lita (I did
not know what withdrawal of its complicated wrappers) to the nail, and both began to work in their
work and talk at the same time, but with eyes and sign with the mouth, which had to do with
the status of my uncle. Of "what happened yesterday," there was much more, and with some care to not
heard from the bedroom as I could impress again.

It was a miracle of God that we do not hear most of it, because with the stubborn determination
I had in that there should be something between Lita and physician I was really heavy and insistent
in certain passages of dialogue, particularly during Mari Pepa getaway to the bedroom, because
my uncle had coughed or believed that he had called ... or to see if I needed something, but
coughed or call. At Don Pedro Nolasco had known all, shortly before going on "the cloud" that had
terrified. They had lived in the same anguish I late into the night. I spoke of Lita had doubts
Toper's home, and here's where my tenacity bordering on impertinence. I met him at a glance
strangeness with my beautiful interlocutor who responded to me a hint that were cleared too
my intentions. I won the serenity that seemed protest against poor understood right to ask "certain
things" for very obvious they were.

Then came Don Sabas, complaining since the passage of the regard that had been saved in our house that
night. Who told us that traveling at about the mountain, no guts to stay with him for doing his
duty at any time to call your door? And if the thing had pressed a little more than pressed,
what would have been Christian in danger of death? Who have been the responsibility? What would
he said and what of us? ... And while not squeezing the thing, how soon are good friends?

- Well, look - he said to bed hugging Don Celso - what is it you do not forgive.

- Bah, bah! - The aforementioned thrashing grumbled a bit - do not break my head. You can JACER what
suits you, well I know what I did.

- Jinojo! - Said Don Sabas - is that the courtesy that was such that if not now topo mesmo
with Neluco, blessed day passes without me to know what happened to you last night.

I intervened, desenojé the Priest, he remained alone with my uncle
and continue the others around brazier, as before, talk talk, on "last
night" over "what happened yesterday" and even on certain promises
made by me to my interlocutors that the day was known, eat at home
any time; promise was still unfulfilled, because it noticeable from
the hectic life he led uphill and downhill, if not the fierce temporary
I had locked the house.

At noon came Neluco, not found in the patient nothing special or
new, nor wanted to enter the plea I made to stay and eat us pray for
his part, I was rebuffed and the Cure.

Then they went both together after prescribing first aid plan for the evening, and to avert the
second to that for any reason or human courtesy we fail to notify
the minor novelty Lita and her mother returned to the bedroom of the
patient to weigh the improvement noticed in he (and God knows how
knowingly lied in their weights), and give Mari Pepa few sips of milk
while his daughter arranged the bedclothes and women entering gray
lounge set the table near the hearth, and little time we sat down
to eat.

Eating and talking, I had to say, because I asked my talkative diners, what things were eaten
by the wealthy, and at what times, in "into the world again." All were astonished those women
very simple, and I perceived this, and I liked to speed up the note, and so I to ponder the
exquisite taste of frog legs and swallow nests, including distinguished and elegant junk food
that I quoted. And it was to see the face then Mari Pepa put and gestures of disgust Lituca was
looking at his mother and back at me to me, as if he doubted the truth of what I meant.

- Pure vice daughter, pure pleasure - said after Mari-Pepa -; pure pleasure of it jartura those
living Genton, of what God created.

As it was so bonded with each other, pulling out the way of eating lifestyle and mode of travel.
New fans and new amazement. Thesis also extremely well here, and even suspect that I lied
a little, but within the plausible and pardonable. Lo bed near dawn and rise after midday
to stay at home until the evening, I marveled as much as swallow nest soup and fried legs frog.

- Mary my Mother! - Lita cried upon hearing it - because if these people never see ever the sun,
so what is he can see the happy and fattening? I think that's living against the law.

- Vice, daughter, vice - insisted Mari Pepa -; habit of not knowing what jacerse in a life so
spoiled.

Lita asked me if I also had 'over there' these bad habits, I replied that yes, and I said,
all comments, with a truly naive and infantile simplicity:

- Well,
be good rascal you ... Right, mom?

I celebrated the saying with a laugh no less naive, then giving thanks for the compliment, about
the same time responding to the question Mari Pepa:

- Who knows, daughter of soul, who knows?

Jaz who eat "nial" swallow unruptured of "doubt", you can jacerse to live that way without offending
God or break your health.

With the exception of his mother Lita was very red, and he wanted
me he could amend like his impertinence, and I, without leaving conclusion,
paved the way for your wishes offering it to boot a statement, not
devoid of sincerity, of my great disappointments.

- It would happen
about now - I objected Mari Pepa - when one was married, to live as
God intended.

What the heck want to know and possible when they are lonely monsoon family open house? ...
Well, look, Don Marcelo, said that for these houses, close-knit they
are, whenever the devil has a key.

- You can have it - I said I was
very formal - but in mine never entered.

- Jorrios, trapacerón of
satanincas!

Released after the laughter, and dropped it while Lita.

I help them with another, by the grace I did both, and then began the "mince" and shootings that could
not miss there, among the three.

Because these riddles are innate in women of all castes and latitudes; and put them all in the
same situation, all except the differences of place and style come to dig in the grounds and
with its own aims.

Always initiatives and force of daring, the cunning and tenacity, the mother, the subject studied,
the ill-concealed curiosity, eloquent silence, looking sideways, the punctured subtle, daughter.
So the two came to take for granted that I would have had no less than fifty brides nor would
drop the remaining three in Madrid crying my absences and maybe my
ingratitude.

But if the background scene was not new to me, éranlo, to fascinate,
those quaint nuances of language, this dialectic haphazardly, without
scaffolding or rhetorical devices conventional sanotas those sprouting
from mischief palabreo joyful, spontaneous fresh, airy and transcending
to 'land' as the roses in the garden between the virginal and splendid
litter fence that protects them.

So I felt in my soul that had just this highly original "discreteo."

And Mari Pepa finally go to my uncle who was coughing and complained, Lituca while at the same time
he heard the moans and coughs, I ordered shut by putting Dedina cute one on the mouth and Facia
came to pick up the crumbs and tablecloths the table.

XXIV

Soon passed my uncle, and spent two hours with no other noteworthy event in the big house and
beyond that a wet gale gusts that "blackened" a bit of snow, thing we filled all of complacency,
women less gray, as the signal phenomenon desnieve upcoming. Near dusk, when Mari Pepa and her daughter
picked up the respective Work and shook the rags clinging to clothing, and admonished the 'clouds'
and shawls, saying the way to my uncle many jokes and cheer, and dripping carcasses Snow Roof "melted"
by the rain that was thickening, the doctor came again. Examined the sick, and nothing particularly
alarming or found in it to make fear a night like the past, but did not dare to prometérnosla
calmer, because everything could be in a bad breed disease in a painful and helpless as crushed
as my uncle. This me said apart after me, before Facia and Mari Pepa, the campaign plan to the next
day, subject to return it at the last minute, so that might occur. The Lita's mother insisted
on staying to watch much, but I did not consent, because neither the patient has consented or would
have sat well be the mere suspicion of it, with suspicious and apprehensive
that put darkness as were invading the bedroom.

It was agreed that Facia ensure that no Chisco and lie down to sleep
I like hares, and It marched with Lita and her mother Neluco, waving
them "tomorrow" and "to then ', they fell in the dark and cold those
dilapidated areas of the house he grew up silence and darkness, and
spent a long time, while women decorate the candlestick gray, though
I saw nothing around me that the dying embers dying from the ashes
brazier, or heard other rumors that the laborious work of breathing
of my uncle the bottom of the chamber, and the rhythmic and monotonous
flow of the water-logged channels goterial.

When there was light in the room, I approached the bedside and spoke to desentristecerle a bit
and encourage him. Lost work. I intend very grateful, but he just knew all how bad it was and
how impossible it was out of this quagmire without a miracle God. I supposed overwhelmed by
the weight of my subjection to her assistance, and was determined to reassure with the promise
that it would not be long my captivity, I apologized for the bad times I was in the meantime, and
I conjured up again when I got my freedom, not take forgotten what I had prayed so, because the
less was he in that town, if there were those who the house occupied the position was left
empty with his death. I seem heavy and the subject; but this is what we demonstrate the importance
he gave ... All this, said between moans and panting pauses, his voice dull and deathly exhausted
the light of the oil lamp placed on the bureau, which only served to extreme cadaverous pallor
of the patient, including odors ether and rosemary, while the channels were flowing and grumbling
the gale outside, was very sad indeed. On the play of chance are often produced very curious contrasts
jokes that seem very heavy destination. On the dresser and under the burner ignition the candlestick,
had a stack of letters and newspapers that I had put there the night before to be entertained
with reading my long hours of sailing after that, after the asthma attack could sleep my uncle.
For most of those letters and those papers paper, were packed with news, reviews and trials planned
dances, receptions sumptuous new comedies in the halls and theaters in Madrid, as if everything
had been written for me out about it in such a timely opportunity.

The relapse of my uncle, the drop in temperature, with subsequent clearing of paths and roads, and
salsilla of "what happened yesterday" the cocinona took a big hit
that night of commentators.

TARUMBA attended to, which rarely went there, far more restless and frustration with the illness
of Don Celso and the stupidity of pepazo, that having been widened more of the same, with the
weight and the distillation of snow, which had its anchovy jastial home in the West. Pete also
attended Salces, who remained as pulseless when Tona, face awash with smiles and eyes of sweetness, he
praised the achievement of Eve and told him without qualms that "from this one and those ready
liked it men. " Puches, how to put away the mozallón with praise! If you do not restrain with
a compelling reflection and toss brunt of his lastic, make another atrocity there less laudable
that the mountain. I had never thought of it (I swore so intertwined fingers their hands, those
who were crossing) a thing "as jacedera and currienti" could assert many flows. With the tough
one who until then had been Tona! Geez, what kind yours! Thinking that is the envy Chisco I remembered
the discovery made by me Toper house in the heart of Tanasi and Fuila with the story of Robacio
the monsoon in a besides I had with him. I replied that I had taken a job well idle, although I
thanked him very much.

- Things - ended in the judgmental tone that was peculiar to him - pa shoot well, they jancia roll
with himself unu.

The man was the calmness and equanimity in the flesh, and the same pulse Bear in front of him
in his cave, which the warmth of the bride.

On behalf of my uncle, I often walked in the kitchen rather than do the honors the gathering,
to prevent him pundits will invade the bedroom. He loved; but could not bear on the plight
of body and spirit in which was. Thus, even without the doctor's strict prohibition would
not have wanted to receive any of them during the day. When they were saying goodbye to everyone,
would be different.

Late Don Sabas and Neluco arrived: the first determined to stay there, without being notice the
sick, please you have asked me if he had not anticipated offer me; the second to find out the
state of affairs before retiring. As such Things did not offer new or alarming aspect, said
goodbye to my uncle, and those with him we stayed at the house, and went with the last commentators,
one of whom was Pete, encountered with people, benches, doors and partitions, pure and foolish
that aceleradote had given him the praise and cuddles of Tona.

He spent the night better than we all expected, and the next day dawned without a cloud in
heaven or a puff of air on earth, and when the sun peaks transposed the East and greeted the
valley with its rays sparkled on the snow that had not broken the rain, my poor uncle sent them
to open wide the paneled his bedroom, as was not allowed to do the
same with the doors and windows to let in light and the air in the
abundance that he needed to stay afloat in this sea of ​​troubles
"that ajogaba him "because of the drawn mediquillo seemed determined
to kill him.

And indeed was that if the body is not noticed anything more miracles of the panacea that so
eagerly asked the sick, was very large in spirit.

It was "another man" from the sun had crept into his bedroom and through the bars of a prison, and
saw floating, dancing within the luminous band across the room in
front of his bed from the paneled window, the fluff and dust homeless.

Not even the purpose of pointing up, because they would not let the exhaustion of its forces,
but believed in the possibility of returning in the sun before they die, even sacándole in a
basket to the laundry if it lasted visage that while a few days.

And it lasted more than seven, and tuned in such terms and fixed the
aging and confused my uncle's machine so that, not in a basket, but
rather sitting on the couch in cow your bedroom, well wrapped and
wrapped in blankets and coats, got be more than four "Bellyful of
sun" outdoors in the warm corner of the laundry, where I pulled him
little unless in the air, the door of her bedroom, between the storms
of vows and oaths with protesting against "the bitch acabación" that
made him so miserable ends.

He had many visitors at that time, and the family of Don Pedro Nolasco they are made for tomorrow
and evening. In it was the vejancón of Castañalera, fewer useful of speech and conversation
issues, used to break the long hiatus of silence downloads like this and two truncheons on the
ground:

- Go, go with the good Don Celso that we want to die without more ado! No, no, because like mine
is worth, do not you come out with it. I swear that I am.

Lituca, if present, came to remove the impertinence with a joke rather forced that I alluded to
me that for the pious and the luck to finish off peacefully my uncle.
 Does she seem
worse to you?"

"Not a bit," Ester said, promptly. "I think she looks better than usual."

"Yes," Mr. Vane answered, in an encouraged tone; "and she has been quite bright all day; but
the doctor is all down about her. He won't say a single cheering word."

Ester's indignation grew upon her. "He might, at least, have let this old man sleep in peace,"
she said, sharply, in her heart.

At twelve, precisely, the doctor returned. He went directly to the bedside.

"How has she been?" he asked of Ester, in passing.

"Just as she is now." Ester's voice was not only dry, but sarcastic.

Mr. Vane scanned the doctor's face eagerly, but it was grave and sad. Quiet reigned in the
room. The two men at Florence's side neither spoke nor stirred. Ester kept her seat across
from them, and grew every moment more sure that she was right, and more provoked. Suddenly
the silence was broken. Dr. Van Anden bent low over the sleeper, and spoke in a gentle, anxious
tone: "Florence." But she neither stirred nor heeded. He spoke again: "Florence;" and the blue
eyes unclosed slowly and wearily. The doctor drew back quickly, and motioned her father forward.

"Speak to her, Mr. Vane."

"Florence, my darling," the old man said, with inexpressible love and tenderness sounding in
his voice. His fair young daughter turned her eyes on him; but the words she spoke were not
of him, or of aught around her. So clear and sweet they sounded, that Ester, sitting quite
across the room from her, heard them distinctly.

"I saw mother, and I saw my Savior."

Dr. Van Anden sank upon his knees, as the drooping lids closed again, and his voice was low
and tremulous:

"Father, into thy hands we commit this spirit. Thy will be done."

In a moment more all was bustle and confusion. The nurse was thoroughly awakened; the doctor
cared for the poor childless father with the tenderness of a son; then came back to send John
for help, and to give directions concerning what was to be done.

Through it all Ester sat motionless, petrified with solemn astonishment. Then the angel of
death had really been there in that very room, and she had been "so wise in her own conceit,"
that she did not know it until he had departed with the freed spirit!

Florence really was sick, then--dangerously sick. The doctor had not deceived them, had not
magnified the trouble as she supposed; but it could not be that she was dead! Dead! Why, only
a few minutes ago she was sleeping so quietly! Well, she was very quiet now. Could the heart
have ceased its beating?

Sadie's Florence dead! Poor Sadie! What would they say to her? How could they tell her?

Sitting there, Ester had some of the most solemn, self-reproachful thoughts that she had ever
known. God's angel had been present in that room, and in what a spirit had he found this watcher?

Dr. Van Anden went quietly, promptly, from room to room, until every thing in the suddenly
stricken household was as it should be; then he came to Ester:

"I will go over home with you now," he said, speaking low and kindly. It
is necessary that the world ... But what you do, Philip, you sleep?

--=
(Savvy and brushing.) = Excuse me, Mr. D. José wanted.

It is not disrespectful; is that what little I drank that damn spirit seems that the head has filled
me stones.

--= (With growing unease fever, which breaks the dam finally made his loquacity.) = If this gives
life ... if this warmth running through my body, I have I muse for the night, and now I'm going
home and office sixty flip pages ... = (Jumping from his seat.) = You are a true John Wool. Drink
more.

--= (Rubbing his eyes.) = Not in the least. I fall into the street.

Come, D. Joseph.

- Wait, man. Do not be so live genius.

What's your hurry?

--= (Putting his hand in his breast pocket.) = I will carry this letter.

-
Who?

- Two ladies who live alone.

--= (Pasmado.) = Felipe!

... Two beautiful girls, single, honest! No doubt a letter full of money. Your love is a banker,
a crook who wants to shame them.

- Little by little ... You have drunk too much.

- You see, you see?

= (Looking outside the city's eyes.) = Do you see how much make up
the fantasy invented much reality?

... Orphaned girls, tasty, temptation, letter million, virtue triumphant. = (Gesturing emphatically with
the right arm.) = Notice I say.

What bets that give you the door in their noses? What bets that you to go rolling down the
stairs? Chapter: "How the emissary of the Marquis as it takes the
ladder.

"

- If my master is not Marquis ... My love is Agustin Caballero, whom you know.

--= (With penetration.) = Whatever you want, wear the letter contains
an instrument of immorality corruption.

The letter contains notes.

- Yes, but according to drama tomorrow
for Sunday afternoon.

Is that the cousins my master, Mr. de Bringas, can not go, because they have a bad boy.

- Bringas Bringas!

... = (Recordando.) = Amigo Aristotle, let me see the envelope of
the letter ...

- See it.

--= (Reading the address, launches formidable
monosyllable of wonder and hold hands to head.) = "Amparo and Refugio
Girls."

If they are my neighbors, if the two orphan girls Sanchez Emperor ...

- Do you know?

- If you live in the same house, Beat, 4, I third them room!

If that couple I inspiration for what I write ... See, see? The reality haunts us. I write
Wonderland reality the plagiarizes me.

- They are beautiful and nice girls.

- I'll tell you ... = (Meditabundo.)
= Nothing they say to the neighborhood, but ...

- But what ...

--=
(With profound mystery.) = The reality, though ever imitating what
we know rather than it also invents things that we dare not to dream
that we have three heads in one.

- So you put those things in his
novels.

- No, because they are not poetry. = (A frown.) = You do
not understand art. Things happen great that they can not look out
the windows of a book, because people would be shocked ... Horrible
prose Jr. nefarious prose that will always be banned from this honorable
republic the letters!

"I suppose it's talking to those wicked old fellows who lived before the flood, or some such time."

"Well, anyhow," said Julia, "I should like to know what it all means. I wish mother would come
home. I wonder how Mrs. Vincent is. Do you suppose she will die, Alfred?"

"Don't know--just hear this, Julia!

"Sadie," said Julia, rising suddenly, and moving over to where the frolic was going on, "won't
you tell us about our lesson? We don't understand a bit about it; and I can't learn any thing
that I don't understand."

"Bless your heart, child! I suspect you know more about the Bible this minute than I do. Mother
was too busy taking care of you two, when I was a little chicken, to teach me as she has you."

"Well, but what can that mean--'If a man strikes you on one cheek, let him strike the other too?'"

"Yes," said Alfred, chiming in, "and, 'If anybody takes your coat away, give him your cloak too.'"

"I suppose it means just that," said Sadie. "If anybody steals your mittens, as that Bush girl
did yours last winter, Julia, you are to take your hood right off, and give it to her."

"Oh, Sadie! you don't ever mean that."

"And then," continued Sadie, gravely, "if that shouldn't satisfy her, you had better take off
your shoes and stockings, and give her them."

"Sadie," said Ester, "how can you teach those children such nonsense?"

"She isn't teaching me any thing," interrupted Alfred. "I guess I ain't such a dunce as to
swallow all that stuff."

"Well," said Sadie, meekly, "I'm sure I'm doing the best I can; and you are all finding fault.
I've explained to the best of my abilities Julia, I'll tell you the truth;" and for a moment
her laughing face grew sober. "I don't know the least thing about it--don't pretend to. Why
don't you ask Ester? She can tell you more about the Bible in a minute, I presume, than I could
in a year."

Ester laid her book on the window. "Julia, bring your Bible here," she said, gravely. "Now
what is the matter? I never heard you make such a commotion over your lesson."

"Mother always explains it," said Alfred, "and she hasn't got back from Mrs. Vincent's; and
I don't believe anyone else in this house can do it." Chose each his own trunk,
in the assurance that the same could serve as executioner under that, and there were, trusting
in God and responding to the prayers that booming voice led him Don Sabas, asking for everyone's
life, albeit at the cost of their own.

I feared and expected to arrive soon, black, thick, roaring, raging, as if all the sea with
its raging waves, and hurricanes and their roars, and irresistible push, had left his immeasurable
riverbed to stop by. Shook up the bravest (And they were much all of that intrepid legion),
and neither could realize full of the beginning or the end of this step as quickly as dreadful
hurricane. And had achieved only one of the strands of the tornado, ripped in his first game
against moles of the mountain!

There was in the oak trunks and broken branches removed and the soil appeared distorted, snow
removal where there had been great, and huge piles of it where there was little else. This was
the first thing that went through the eyes of the wretched, opened as soon as pursued with an
eye for each other. No one was in the spot it had occupied before the storm, and lay buried pepazo
half down on a pile of snow out of oak and a few steps from the ravine ... But there was one!
Chisco missing! and unresponsive to voices with which it was called, nor was he seen it anywhere
... Where do you seek? What site had served in the oak? Who was near him? Who had seen the
burst the black cellerisca?

At that moment took pepazo their stringers of snow and began to speak. He had believing themselves
out of oak outside to feel safer in the face the first whipping "the cloud". Observólo Chisco,
who was at his side, and called for a return to oak prior to before, if he did not fly over
the cliff or fall into it buried both gave: pepazo no, and yes Chisco, flings himself upon
the other to put him in. for good or bad, it explodes into the cellerisca,
and did not pepazo to hear or see nor feel anything of this world
to what he was seeing and hearing this.

Salces Pito, who never took his eye pepazo not miss a single word of what I was saying the
mozallón, as it ceased to speak of a rose was planted on the edge of the ravine, and there he
sniffed, with the ease of a good dog nose in all directions even in the black depths of the abyss.
The pain, the consternation of those generous and honest people, not for colored. It ran back
and forth, desperately sniffing Canelo (the other two dogs had swept the hurricane) was called
in all Chisco imaginable shades of human anguish, and were removed
piles of snow with the shovel, with hoe, feet, fingernails ... And
nothing!

In this is a cry of Pito Salces, and these words to life again to all:

- Here, porridge! I have no eyes or face.

Pete stood the good spread one's legs on the edge of the creek and looking forward down. There,
in the narrow spine of rock that only moved into the abyss and was rooted on the shore, about
thirty feet below where he claimed his men to look Pito and those who had come to his call, they
saw a body half covered by snow. Undoubtedly was to Chisco, by signs of her dress and size, but what
would some life into inanimate creature appeared? Pete argued that yes, because he dared swear
he had caught some "movición 'arm in it. Anyway, we had to get there. How? Where? And here
the longing and despair, because the relief was difficult and time was pressing inexorable.
The cut of the mountain on that side was almost vertical, overhanging the ravine, and had only a slight
stretch, very smear slope precisely to lead the rock with which he joined at its base. Between
the rock and the base of the slope had a space of several yards. In that space, too leaning on
the rock and well marked inclination into the abyss, was what looked like Chisco face down and
motionless, apparently confirming Canelo top beating wildly and looking for a path along which
come to the aid of its owner. For reasons of extreme caution, ordered Neluco to restrain your dog
in the act and he had far from the spot where they were Don Sabas, Pito Salces and he, running
on the problem of the descent. This was not impossible, let alone for those risky and skillful
mountain with auxiliary resources at their disposal, but in those moments provided a tremendous
danger, not for the come down, but for which was down and, helpless and inert. The slope was
covered, until the top edge of a layer would measure not less snow yard and a half thick, and must
measure perhaps much more double what it was in the plain below, on one side of which lay
no sign Chisco of life, even vowing to continue Chorcos yes it was intended. Remove snow from
above, was even slightly (and hence the Neluco precaution taken with cinnamon), equivalent to
produce a shift in it, which, gaining weight and speed of hand in hand, would to the rock like an
avalanche of enough thrust to drag Chisco to the depths of the canyon. This, it was in everyone's
mind was what had febrile and dismayed. All were willing to go down, but no one was allowed.
Salces Pito, who did not fit himself and walked miles per second in three feet of soil they
occupied their feet was suddenly punched in the face.

Puches! already had the idea.

- Are the ropes ready? - Asked.

They answered yes.

- Will we ca a Eyas to abaju?

He was told that with leftover same.

He then asked for a shovel.

Examined the rope, measuring arm in arm, the left then screwed into the ground near the edge
of the ravine, put blade on the thread, and turned to peer over the
edge.

Then he asked the nearest of that silent and looked at him with curiosity:

- Will there be even, even, six feet of snow on the way from there yanauca of baju?

- And more - are answered.

He took off the snowshoeing in a jiffy, he threw aside, lifted up
himself and said,

- The lightning, porridge!

Are pa when it thunders, and prayers, Don Sabas, pa when mesmu nesecitan as now.

He kissed his hand to the Priest; arrimóse again to the edge of the ravine said he watched the
amazed, to ignore the plans that will move to do those strange things that have lists the shovel
and the rope when asked him for a moment looked down santiguóse quickly invoked "Jesus crucified
..." and there goes that! Was launched into the abyss between amazement and horror of all. It should
be noted that since he noticed the lack of Chisco until that sublime awful, did not go ten minutes.
So fast it went, they ran and acted there!

Those who saw Pito Salces fall (which were all that remained above
the caravan, Canelo including) the right, stiff as a spindle, and
making the wings and swing arms for controllable in the air, unable
to figure out which came first, sinking into the snow to the cross
of their pants, or put both hands on the motionless body of his friend
preying on him.

Then he pulled the body with all its forces, managed to drag their
land and left in the snow in safer and backs.

Everyone knew Chisco saw him as well, but horror of horrors! in the
place where he had been resting his head was a smudge of blood on
the white perfectly distinguished dazzling Snow.

Almost at the same time it was this sad discovery, Pete yelled from looking back down from above:

-
There are men, porridge, and even his resueyu correspondienti!

- Up with it without delay! - Neluco then shouted from above.

- We must sweep the road first! - Answered Chorcos from below -. Échenme a shovel before with before,
because I have the idea, porridge!, and vaig jiciendu above it that I see abaju JACER over
here ... as I advise.

Blade fell quickly, perfectly plumb and on-site that pointed to Chorcos hand, took possession
of it, and began to snow EXPAL right and left, throwing over the edges of that air and lower
peninsula joined to the mainland of the mountain by an isthmus that was three yards wide.
In two minutes it was clear and the isthmus open a path in there campizo which covered the
stumps of the cliff, until the pile of snow which lay Chisco. Then the intrepid boy was pulled to
the base of slope, and there, as if he were in the garden of his home, without worry the least about
the horrific vision of the abyss that opened at half staff in each of his feet, he began to EXPAL
snow slope, side to side, sending at the same time it did above the same, as the blades reach.
Without base and the snow slope and removed overhead, began to slip
into the isthmus, which was split into two waterfalls disappearing
in the ravine.

Clear and clean the slope in a few moments and unfettered, therefore, of the dangers they feared
before, he fell down the rope called Chorcos, tied as it should and
he knew it, his friend under the arms, and gingerly pulling up and
helping the He fondly from below, was Chisco, who could not do anything
for themselves, leaning to the slope.

- Up to him now! - Salces Pete
shouted, as pulsu, because if no one brazu cascau yeva has of faltali
POCU.

Chisco arrived happily at the top, down the rope again, Atos her Chorcos, subiéronle; and no
one stopped to ponder the feat, and it occurred to him that he had done worthy of the name,
ran to surround all Chisco, who had already taken over the doctor in the oak groves, attended
mainly by Don Sabas. The head wound was negligible, and the arm was not even a dislocated shoulder.
The worst was the blood loss weakened him very much, and what might be of concussion, although
how compliant was a good sign that the whole body was showing the remedies that you Neluco
applied. Three quarters of an hour the patient was sitting by his own efforts and their free will,
another quarter of an hour later, asking detailed news of all that had past the hour and a
half, he ate with great appetite and was drinking when he gave, and unfulfilled two hours,
rehearsing their vigor of kicking in the snow walking and praying
to Cure Neluco because it broke the place quickly.

Walking now, said Don Sabas your doctor:

- And they say that miracles are no longer! Be in the canyon wall smooth one rock ledge, go for
the death penalty Chisco dragged by cellerisca; have a bed rock more
than six feet of snow, and engage him in blankets cellerisca over
another Thus, for the fall out soft.

Are not these miracles? And finally, is not the greatest of all the occurrence of Pete? For what
would have served the other without such barbarism?

As it was necessary to accommodate Chisco walk, his gait was not ordinary,
down to Tablanca lasted much more than estimated at the output of
"Cuevona" of "Pedregalón of Escajeras'; and how, even so, the monsoon
of Robacio was not iron, became tired and not feeling much well as
the night wore on grew colder and colder.

There were fears that Tablanca unable to reach their feet, and looked for shortcuts to soon.
How come, at last, Neluco and patients, we have already seen us. It Chisco heated bed, he
stripped off his wet clothes, he was given a friction brandy, and was lying in bed when referring
Neluco in the kitchen these events more than once clouded the eyes of Facia, and made us tremble
with fear and excitement Tona her daughter, while my uncle was shaking her chin and stuck
little eyes sparkled in the narrator. As for me, to admire as much as I admired the heroic
atrocity Pito Salces, and feel so deeply as I felt the terrible misfortune of the poor Chisco, I was
still all in comparison little box of horrors that I had been building
in the head during the day and much of the night.

Finished the story, with detailed comments from listeners, and refreshed and with Neluco lumbrona
heat, god around Chisco's bedroom, saw and saw all sleeping profoundly a quiet sleep without
any sign of fever, caused us instructions what could happen until he returned the next morning, called
the bluff and Facia had prepared him, took leave and went to his house where his housekeeper would
be crying by entrusting to him and to God. I then explained to my uncle, the reason for these
events, my conduct throughout the day appeared calm with it, leaning against us shortly after
the lazy, I had dinner with an appetite as I had not felt one in
my life, and one hour after we retired to sleep.

A sleep! ... Good went to do the hours of that day and night memorable!

Tell me I got into bed with his head crammed with special events and heart full of impressions,
saw the storm raging in the mountains, rocks ripping uprooting trees and secular, and a dozen
men, simply and naturally generous shrouded swirling snow and hail, rolling on the floor, such as
leaf litter dead trees; saw Chisco dying in the back of a rock, on a black background an awful
abyss, saw the desperate yearning of his fellow-sufferers, who were not how to get there, and
saw, finally, to Noblot Pito Salces flying through the air and risking their lives at the start
brutally sublime, just trying to save Your friend, which surely would have done the same for
him a lot, I considered all As representative and valuable in the light of common sense these
things, and simple attack the trip to the mountain on a day like this, in the pure and holy spirit
of charity, as The most natural and simple, without any protest, without the slightest doubt
and no idea even from the remotest hope of profit or applause, and could not help it, I remembered
I had read and heard many times in my world, the resounding din that used to move in chat rooms,
casinos and papers, and honors and ribbons that were requested and granted for award a "deed"
not worth two cumin good sale, I also thought of my poor uncle whom the questions first and then
the knowledge of reality with all its details, were affected very deeply, and that I had left
the bedroom door much more depressed and haggard than usual, more tiring and more haunted by
coughing, in Finally, I even thought so in good justice, would have won in estimating Chisco Tanasi,
who was not worthy of a big animal like pepazo, and Pito Salces in Tona, there would be no
thrown by the wayside the atrocities of Heroic mozallón how truly loved her.

Until well after midnight did not start the sleep feints to confuse and stack these thoughts
and those images in his head, and that was precisely when I heard few knocks on the floor
of the apartment of my uncle. He used to call it with a stick that put leaning against the headboard.
But the shock of that night was something distinguished them from the blows of other times,
heard by me without warning. Could this be true, or product of a hallucination of mine, but
I, in doubt, I stuck to it first and I got a leap, lit the candle, got dressed in the air and
went to the call. And what I was I feared. I found the poor guy sitting up in bed, iris color,
looking for distress, mouth open, panting and breathing hard, and a rattle in the chest that
looked like death. Recited, syllable by syllable, the Miserere psalm ... and I did not know
what to do or what to say at first: I imposed that picture had never seen and felt at the
same time very compassionate. Armed with that sort attacks had several drugs at home and gave us
some instructions Neluco to combat trouble in the first moments when he warned him, but I
could not quite make or to have anything to anything. So I looked stunning!

It reached the two maids, who had also heard the shots, and, seeing his master from the door, I
said Facia ear:

- What mesmu that again!

Tona He turned flying into the kitchen to a term of his mother, and it stayed with me in the sick
room.

Ether, hand baths, poultices ... I do not know how many resources were put into play there! A
whole lend the distressed lord, unless it is notified Neluco or Don Sabas, because after of
the struggle they had had since the dawn, they needed rest as much as him. And beware that
the poor Chisco found out what was going on! because it was able to rise risk of getting worse,
and Chisco and the Cure and Neluco and I and Facia and every one
of the sleeping or resting at that hour or went healthy and good for
the house, made missing in the world, all but him, that seeing themselves
in this predicament was seen in his own interests and in what was
natural.

All of this was telling us little by little, as he fixed his eyes
on us crystallized and longing and cadaveric in sank his hands a bowl
of hot water, building relief that would produce this and other heroic
remedies we applied it constantly.

- In addition - we said - this
is not death yet, I know him well, and if I thought otherwise, and
the priest would be here for my order, for the account of me.

Gravel! ... But it is another reminder of her ... We, the second touch, the third, the mass
... and do not lie, the funeral mass, the body of your uncle, Marcelo, your master, Facia, which
is already in abundance in this home and abroad ... Blessed be God forever ever, amen!

Then he began to pray for the low, and as he calmed the anguish was closing eyes, until finally
falling asleep, and so asleep and waking up every moment Before long. Toward morning the attack
disappeared completely and the patient slept quietly and at a stretch, about two hours. But what
I had wanted for the Neluco night to warn, and what my own anxiety by dawn!

When morning came, at last, I was shivering with cold ... and sadness, seated at the head of
my uncle's bed, having seen from the sunshine of my room that did not appear the new day more
cheerful than the last, and sent a wire to Neluco to anticipate the visit as he could.

XXIII

As my uncle was found free of the attack on waking from sleep,
relatively quiet, I had watched since dawn, and saw the room lit by
daylight, although brown, melancholy, forgot the anguish she had suffered
fatal few hours earlier, and he had not told other desire than to
jump out of bed to make life normal.

God help us reduced cost to us even listen to the reasons we had for oppose the reckless and
dangerous endeavor. Neluco, which was already present and well aware for everything that happened
during the night, he had really upset and even lacking a bit different respect. If not for the
good, bad that day would have to stay in bed and the next, and the other, and lasted as long
as the snow storm. Be avoided colds at all costs ... Then they would see. To which Don Celso,
casting by the loops of fire fox and clenching his fists in anger:

- For you it was! For you and for all of your driven trade, the tricky mediquín gravel! Why
do you take me? What wood you've thought that I am? I will arise ... or not I arise, and as I
see as gall, but not because he pleases so or to asao no undertaker live ... because life is buried
in cuartajo! be in bed days and days to a man like me, without fever
or pain.

After he surrendered, rather than conviction, for lack of strength to get away with it; but
turned his face to the wall muttering protests and abuse as a child upset.

Released this and while we would see Chisco, I said that perhaps the doctor had why my uncle in
his contention with us. Nature was so extraordinary!

- There is nature worth - I replied Neluco - at a certain age in life
and certain diseases.

- But how serious is it to have my uncle? -
I asked.

- I've already responded to you on another occasion that
question.

- Yes.

- Well, you stick to it, and offer government for
better intelligence, which each hundred patients from this class,
although young men are dying ... One Hundred and One, So you just
imagine if there have to be careful, even to stop the death of Don
Celso few days.

What is needed here now to discipline him a little, is to organize the editing assistance at the
same time the life of this home.

You may not accommodate certain tasks, improper of their habits and
even their nature Facia is the stamp of melancholy, and her daughter,
Tona unable to meet with the most affectionate of the applications,
skill and polish it missing.

Moreover, neither the mother nor daughter can, by their servant,
imposed impetuous whims of his master, who, moreover, he knows them
by heart, as than you.

More than wines and drugs, must attend to this patient with entertainment
distracting him and glad and require you to be docile, even by courtesy.

Finally, I Mari Pepa thought. Mari Pepa is coming here as a nurse with all my heart, and coming
it will come Lita too, and under the pretext of accompanying Don Celso, pass to his side all day
and make this big house an aviary. You what do you think?

Pearl seemed to me, and so he declared to Neluco. He was to turn the plan into a thing made, and
arrive in the bedroom this Chisco.

Which was no longer in it or nearby. Tona asking him, we knew that he was, some time ago, fixing
the cattle.
 I wish I had corresponded
with Cousin Abbie myself. A wedding of any kind is a delicious novelty; but a real New York
wedding, and a bridesmaid besides--my! I've a mind to clap my hands for you, seeing you are
too dignified to do it yourself."

"Oh," said Ester, from whose face the flush had faded, leaving it actually pale with excitement
and expected disappointment, "you don't suppose I am foolish enough to think I can go, do you?"

"Of course you will go, when Uncle Ralph has paid your fare, and more, too. Fifty dollars will
buy a good deal besides a ticket to New York. Mother, don't you ever think of saying that she
can't go; there is nothing to hinder her. She is to go, isn't she?"

"Why, I don't know," answered this perplexed mother. "I want her to, I am sure; yet I don't
see how she can be spared. She will need a great many things besides a ticket, and fifty dollars
do not go as far as you imagine; besides, Ester, you know I depend on you so much."

Ester's lips parted to speak; and had the words come forth which were in her heart, they would
have been sharp and bitter ones--about never expecting to go anywhere, never being able to
do any thing but work; but Sadie's eager voice was quicker than hers:

"Oh now, mother, it is no use to talk in that way. I've quite set my heart on Ester's going.
I never expect to have an invitation there myself, so I must take my honors secondhand.

"Mother, it is time you learned to depend on me a little. I'm two inches taller than Ester,
and I've no doubt I shall develop into a remarkable person when she is where we can't all lean
upon her. School closes this very week, you know, and we have vacation until October. Abbie
couldn't have chosen a better time. Whom do you suppose she is to marry? What a queer creature,
not to tell us. Say she can go, mother--quick!"

Sadie's last point was a good one in Mrs. Ried's opinion. Perhaps the giddy Sadie, at once
her pride and her anxiety, might learn a little self-reliance by feeling a shadow of the weight
of care which rested continually on Ester.

"You certainly need the change," she said, her eyes resting pityingly on the young, careworn
face of her eldest daughter. "But how could we manage about your wardrobe? Your black silk
is nice, to be sure; but you would need one bright evening dress at least, and you know we
haven't the money to spare."

Then Sadie, thoughtless, selfish Sadie, who was never supposed to have one care for others,
and very little for herself--Sadie, who vexed Ester nearly every hour in the day, by what,
at the time, always seemed some especially selfish, heedless act--suddenly shone out gloriously.
She stood still, and actually seemed to think for a full minute, while Ester jerked a pan of
potatoes toward her, and commenced peeling vigorously; then she clapped her hands, and gave
vent to little gleeful shouts before she exclaimed "Oh, mother, mother! I have it exactly.
I wonder we didn't think of it before. There's my blue silk--just the thing! I am tall, and
she is short, so it will make her a beautiful train dress. Won't that do splendidly!" Who want to die? It should be a line in the water.

- Are you alone?

Cecilia asked before sitting on the wooden swing that was presented
the friend.

- Alone in the soul, although Joseph Dolores not take
long.

- I would not have found me here.

- Why China?

- For men
then set a look for them.

- My brother is one of those, sweetie.

He loves you, I adore, idolize you, you know, sigh always for you,
but is so shy he would not dare to tell you black eyes, the imagine
that most come for him.

- Oh, Baby!

Cecilia continued ignoring of the manifestations of her friend.

The other Later I found Leonardo José Dolores talking to the window
of the house.

In an evil hour. I have struggled with it a tragedy.

- Do not tell me!

Nemesia recovered completely unable to hide his satisfaction. But I have done peace. No?

- I wish! Cecilia said with a sigh.

He got angry and fought with me is gone. Who knows when we Núñez de Arce? Maybe ... anymore.
He is very dog ​​and me a little less.

In saying these words, callose for a short time. He had crossed the voice in the throat, and appeared
in her beautiful eyes big tears.

- What! Nemesia said surprised. Really you cry? Have you no shame?

- Yes, I cry, "said Cecilia with obvious feeling. I cry, not pain, anger me cry same, because
I know I've been a fool.

- Anja!

Glad to hear you. Because I told you so many times, you should not rely on any one of man.

-
I do not say so, Nene. You call you confide in a man love a lot? It may be, and I I tell you,
is it is in your power to love or not love? Do you know any remedy
for love and jealousy?

Ideally, china, no heart.

So do not feel love for anyone.

- Then, it seems that you give you cheated.

- As deceived not. God forbid! Leonardo has left me no other and I think I leave. If you would
not be suspected even telling you from this chair.

- What more do
you want, woman?

I fear that peje not return to bite on your hook.

- What do you
know?

Cecilia asked scared.

- Nothing, nothing, Nemesia repeated. But I can not forget the sign said Clara, Uribe's wife: each
with each.

- I do not understand.

- Lighter can not be. "Password Clara has more experience than us? Absolutely. Is of age and has
seen double world that you and me.

Well, if often repeated that said, why good to have. Here, between ourselves, Naída has told
me, but I know that Clara always sign liked more whites than the
brown, well durito and Uribe Sr. married.

Of course, took more burned and disappointments that hair on its head, so now repeating consoles
girls like you and me, each with each.

Do you understand?

- Yes, well, just do not see how I come the refrain.

- Here is identic, sweety, you take by law.

Would not you prefer the white to brown, Clara as a sign?

- I do
not deny that I do like a lot more white than brown.

I fall face of shame if I was married and had a son saltoatrás.

- Do not kid yourself, woman bonitura, love, love, perseverance, nothing subject to the whites.
Then Leonardo is not going to marry you not by the church.

- Why not? Cecilia replied hotly. He promised to me and keep his word. Otherwise I would not want
as I want.

- Ay! I am very sorry to hear you talk like that, but would not take away the illusion. You
just say you open your eyes, lest evil has come too late. Do not trust, do not trust, and always
have mind that the flying ants get wings burned.

- He who dies for
his love, until death you know.

- I understand, but if one died suddenly,
without pain, no work, go, is all for God.

The case is China, which before death will suffer a lot. Come here, does it hurt so much when a
man White leaves us a woman of color, as when we left for a white? Did You? That yes it hurts.
And I figure that you are you're going through that now. So do not talk, or say I will not drink
this water.

It provided Cecilia to deny the accuracy of the simile when he appeared on the patio door José
Dolores Pimienta, and if she could not or could not say what he thought
he was dumb and static in the doorway of the room.

I did not expect such a company, let alone at that hour of the night.

Replacement after his surprise, said in brief sentences how glad
selected of view.

Cecilia said she had come only to give a caradita Nemesia, and began
up to leave.

- I have good news to give, said the musician.

The dance label people of color has agreed to give the day before
Christmas Eve at the home of Soto, Jesus corner Mary.

Of course, the girl is uninvited in front, and is expected to go Nemesia Clara and password,
and Mercedita Ayala, and all friends.

     
     It will be a dance flourish.

        Will check, I tell you the lady.

- The easiest thing is that I can
not attend, said Cecilia.

Chepilla is not good and I'm afraid to leave alone.

- Well if you lack the lady, that there will be light to illuminate
the dance.

- I did not know you were so flattering, "said Cecilia,
smiling and moving toward the door.

- Miss Do not go alone, "said
Jose Dolores.

- Nobody will eat, you lose care.

No bother. Goodbye!

Notwithstanding his refusal, the musician and his sister Cecilia accompanied to the door house
where he lived.

CHAPTER XVII

And to the extent that thought can win Of steel makers was clear to cross.

Luaces JL

José Dolores Pimienta said that the dance of people of color are held at the Soto home. It
occupies the western corner of the Rue de Jesus Maria, in his meeting with walkway Monte, opposite
the Champ de Mars.

Precedes the hallway or entrance portal with a wide wooden railing. From this, alterations windows,
fully open, could the public, without the right to enter, attend to your taste the party. In
the square courtyard, which was covered with a sheet, put on their
tables ambiguous in the dining room the orchestra played, in the very
large dance hall and the rooms are rested and had intimate conversations
of friends or lovers.

The decorations of the room was reduced to a red damask hangings, the national color, collected
flags with blue ribbons, at the height of the lintels of doors and windows. The lighting was
provided by candles of pure semen, burning large crystal chandeliers, with a profusion of
prisms that reflected the same light, multiplied and decomposed in all colors of the rainbow.

Dancing
With the phrase label or cut, meant to imply a very ceremonious in
high tone, and such, no longer held the whites, or for the dance pieces,
nor the singular dress of men and women.

Because of these should consist of and involved in white satin skirt, blue sash crossed at the
chest and marabou feather on his head. The men, in black cloth coat, vest and tie pique white
linen pants Nanjing short, medium flesh-colored silk and flat shoes with silver buckles, all
as Fashion Carlos III, whose statue, made by Canova, [43] was the end of the Prado, which now
holds the source of India or Havana.

To enter and take part in the festival was not enough special suit of men needed be provided
with ballot, due in the hall where the committee constituted to receive and rooms for women.
Observose this measure strictly to the principle; but as soon as it came time to dance, toast
and pepper, main quartermaster, delegated the task in less scrupulous individuals and straight.
In this neglect was due where, late at night, penetrated some individuals who, although in
ceremonial dress, not present or were craftsmen either ticket.

This number was a black man of medium height, rather thick, round face and full, with large
entrances on both sides of the forehead, who passed it almost forty
years of age, end in a complete bald.

Although dressed as had been arranged, the coat was coming somewhat narrow, the vest he was
quite short, the means were discolored old, had no buckles her shoes,
no shirt was cheap and the neck up too to cover nearly the ears, perhaps
because he was of short neck and Morrudo.

Whether by these faults, or leftovers, that we are not well aware,
black entries became the cynosure of all since he set foot on the
ball.

But he warned him, he was no fool, and of course walking at first as bewildered, dodging the room
where the light was more profuse and brilliant, but at eleven o'clock
at night made by joining the cliques that formed around the pretty
girls, until he dared and invite a court dance a minuet, with both
rhythm and grace that called for it the general attention.

Two or three times the group came dallying or worshiping in Cecilia
Valdés the most beautiful women of that meeting heterogeneous looked
askance at the long while and then walked away with visible signs
of defiance.

In one of these moments, an officer of tailoring Uribe watching him closely, he remained outside
the room, put her hand on his shoulder with some familiarity and
said:

- Listen!

Are you here?

- What, do you offer? he answered, turning and shaking from head to
toe.

- What do these neighborhoods, Chiquete? asked the officer with
more familiarity.

- Please tell me, sir, "replied the entries, angry:
when and where you've missed maloja?

- Man! said the officer quite
mortified, those are big words.

- Older or younger is that bothersome
to use as you

- Do not come trying to be mysterious and very lady
that I know who you are and you know who me.

Get down, man, from the stage.

You can fade the head, and if you fall, das in the kitchen fire.

-
Come on, what you want me now?

- No, I do not nadita of this world.

I noticed you did just the ugly to the prettiest girl dance and this
piqued my curiosity.

- Are you going or something comes to you in
this melting pot?

- Rather more than you you think.

- And you intends
to defend this girl, right?

- I think you have not insulted.

Women are not the king's face to please everyone. In like or dislike no offense.

- Well, then let me soul you still.

- You are an ungrateful, "said the official, serious. Not your fault, but I I care of an individual
less than me, cook y. .. slave. Was filled with anger that the black and raised his hand to
strike a blow to his opponent, but for reasons he knew, did not download the coup. Had entered
the house without a ballot, did not know anyone was an intruder and every scandal that arms
should result in damage. Contented, then, to threaten him and tell him to fix accounts after
the dance ended, turning her back with contempt. Such output at most excited the laughter of the
official tailor, and said a joke:

- Jacket, release this man.

To keep looking at his friend José Dolores Pimienta, told the occurrence
to the black large inflows laughed both the occurrence and did not
address it anymore.

Early on the floor was full, boat by boat, as stated in the familiar phrase. The coup people
of all colors, sexes and conditions that are crowded with both windows wide portal, had looked
so lively and interesting and tumultuous. In the great hall not could not stand it, at least until
they danced, the men nudged each other, and almost completely hid the women sitting around. Cecilia,
Nemesia and password Clara Uribe's wife, occupied a front seat to the street, in the dividing wall
canvas between the door and the dining room, and whenever groups of men allowed who came to greet
her, could hear the exclamations of admiration his pilgrim Beauty
people excited in the portal.

Sometimes, after the weights of the graces of the girl could hear voices of compassion it took her
by a young thoroughbred, it was natural to see her there were shocked and low feelings they
believed he was consenting to rub so closely with people of color. Cecilia, meanwhile, tasted victory
at home more than any woman ever reached in the prime of her youth and beauty. One after another,
many men of a certain semblance filled the dance that night, knowing or not, came to salute
and pay tribute, which they know sit for the black Creoles of Cuba who have received some education
and pride themselves on fine and attentive to ladies. Among these we can cite Brindis, musician,
elegant and well-bred; Tonda protected from Captain to General Vives, black, young, intelligent and
brave as a lion; Vargas and Dodge, both of Matanzas, one barber, carpenter the other, which were
included in the alleged conspiracy of people of color in 1844 and shot in the Paseo de Versailles
in the same city, to José de la Concepción Valdés, alias Plácido, the poet more estrus Cuba
has seen, and had the same disastrous fate of the two preceding, to Thomas Back and Flowers, an
outstanding violinist and composer of remarkable contra, which in that year died on the ladder, he
was subjected to torment his judges to extract a confession of complicity a crime whose existence
has never been tested enough, at the same Francisco de Paula Uribe, skilful tailor that to avoid
the fate of the previous run, killed himself with a Beard knife in the moments that you locked
in one of the dungeons of the Citadel La Cabana, Juan Francisco Manzano, tender poet who had just
been released, thanks the philanthropy of some letters from Havana, José Dolores Pimienta,
tailor and skilled toilet clarinet, as graceful as a small face and
dapper in his person.

With the latter and Cecilia Vargas deigned to dance dance, cutting minuet Brindis, another with
Dodge, chatted amiably with Placido, replied with a bow that made
him funny Tonda, spoke with Vuelta y Flores contra, and held a lot
of talent musician Ulpiano who led the orchestra floor.

Any observer could see that medium, to the kindness turns used by Cecilia with all who approached
him, he had marked difference between blacks and mulattos. With these, for example, two contra
danced with the first ceremonial only minuets. But given wide rein to his innate exclusivity
when presented with the black entries deep and prayed admitted as a partner to dance a minuet. Just
do not bore his refusal to not harsh, dry and gave his reasons for not dance with him, he had
committed the next piece, he was very tired, and so on.

The man was satisfied, before was mortified that is unspeakable and walked away muttering
phrases rude and threatening.

This did not stop much attention Cecilia, but when shortly after walking
with Nemesia Clara countersign the tables around the ambiguous and
stumbled with black entries that seemed lurking lying on the doorpost
of one of the side rooms, he was afraid and squeezing the arm of her
friend and whispered hastily: - There he is!

- Who?

Nemesia asked turning his face.

- Look, said Cecilia. Over here. That.

At this time the man fell off the door and went to play with the beard
on Cecilia shoulder, which without preliminary he said:

- "So I believed
the girl worthy to be his partner tonight?

- What say you?

Cecilia asked more frightened than before.

- I say, "continued the grim black glancing Cecilia, say that the
girl has made me a snub.

- If you think you and I ask a thousand
pardons, because it Be had such intention.

- The girl told me she
was tired and then went to dance with another.

Look no apology the child (added race knowing that Cecilia wanted
to replicate), I understand why what the child has snubbed me.

The girl sees me tight, poorly dressed, with no friends in this select meeting and has figured
I am a nobody, a brat, a ragamuffins.

- You are mistaken

- I'm not mistaken.

I know what I say, as I know who the girl.

- Lord, You take me by
another.

- I know more than you would think the girl.

I've known the girl sucking and crawling. I met your mother know your father as my hands and
I have every reason to know the woman who raised her for over a year in a row.

- Well, I do not know you, or ...

- Neither he nor the child care? I understand. I tell the girl, however,
that girls hate me because they figure that because it has the white
skin is white. This talk
Ester held hurriedly with her conscience. It was asleep, you know; but just then it nestled
as in a dream, and gave her a little prick; but that industrious, important word, "fanatical,"
lulled it back to its rest. Meantime there hung the tract, and fluttered a little in the summer
air, as the door opened and closed. Was no one to give it voice? "I'd like dreadful well to
hear it," an old lady said, nodding her gray head toward the little leaf on the wall; "but
I've packed up my specs, and might just as well have no eyes at all, as far as readin' goes,
when I haven't got my specs on. There's some young eyes round here though, one would think."
she added, looking inquiringly around. "You won't need glasses, I should say now, for a spell
of years!"

This remark, or hint, or inquiry, was directed squarely at Ester, and received no other answer
than a shrug of the shoulder and an impatient tapping of her heels on the bare floor. Under
her breath Ester muttered, "Disagreeable old woman!"

The brown silk rustled, and the blue ribbons fluttered restlessly for a minute; then their
owner's clear voice suddenly broke the silence: "I'll read it for you, ma'am, if you really
would like to hear it."

The wrinkled, homely, happy old face broke into a beaming smile, as she turned toward the pink-cheeked,
blue-eyed maiden. "That I would," she answered, heartily, "dreadful well. I ain't heard nothing
good, 'pears to me, since I started; and I've come two hundred miles. It seems as if it might
kind of lift me up, and rest me like, to hear something real good again."

With the flush on her face a little hightened, the young girl promptly crossed to where the
tract hung; and a strange stillness settled over the listeners as her clear voice sounded distinctly
down the long room. This was what she read.

SOLEMN QUESTIONS.

"Dear Friend: Are you a Christian? What have you done to-day for Christ? Are the friends with
whom you have been talking traveling toward the New Jerusalem? Did you compare notes with them
as to how you were all prospering on the way? Is that stranger by your side a fellow-pilgrim?
Did you ask him if he would be? Have you been careful to recommend the religion of Jesus Christ
by your words, by your acts, by your looks, this day? If danger comes to you, have you this
day asked Christ to be your helper? If death comes to you this night, are you prepared to give
up your account? What would your record of this last day be? A blank? What! Have you done nothing
for the Master? Then what have you done against Him? Nothing? Nay, verily! Is not the Bible
doctrine, 'He that is not for me is against me?'

"Remember that every neglected opportunity, every idle word, every wrong thought of yours has
been written down this day. You can not take back the thoughts or words; you can not recall
the opportunity. This day, with all its mistakes, and blots, and mars, you can never live over
again. It must go up to the judgment just as it is. Have you begged the blood of Jesus to be
spread over it all? Have you resolved that no other day shall witness a repeatal of the same
mistakes? Have you resolved in your own strength or in His?"

During the reading of the tract, a young man had entered, paused a moment in surprise at the
unwonted scene, then moved with very quiet tread across the room and took the vacant seat near
Ester. As the reader came back to her former seat, with the pink on her cheek deepened into
warm crimson, the new comer greeted her with--

"Good-evening, Miss Fannie. Have you been finding work to do for the Master?"

"Only a very little thing," she answered, with a voice in which there was a slight tremble.

"I don't know about that, my dear." This was the old woman's voice. "I'm sure I thank you a
great deal. They're kind of startling questions like; enough to most scare a body, unless you
was trying pretty hard, now ain't they?"

"Very solemn questions, indeed," answered the gentleman to whom this question seemed to be
addressed. "I wonder, if we were each obliged to write truthful answers to each one of them,
how many we should be ashamed to have each other see?"

"How many would be ashamed to have Him see?" The old woman spoke with an emphatic shake of
her gray head, and a reverent touch of he pronoun.

"That is the vital point," he said. "Yet how much more ashamed we often seem to be of man's
judgment than of God's."

Then he turned suddenly to Ester, and spoke in a quiet, respectful tone:

"Is the stranger by my side a fellow-pilgrim?"

Ester was startled and confused. The whole scene had been a very strange one to her. She tried
to think the blue-ribboned girl was dreadfully out of her sphere; but the questions following
each other in such quick succession, were so very solemn, and personal, and searching--and
now this one. She hesitated, and stammered, and flushed like a school-girl, as at last she
faltered: "I--I think--I believe--I am."

"Then I trust you are wide-awake, and a faithful worker in the vineyard," he said, earnestly.
"These are times when the Master needs true and faithful workmen." Everything that was said in
contrast, was an innocent lie to exploit their ignorance. You could have picked in one of their
ambushes, like a fox in the trap, as it would take insurance if you have walked there ...

This is thrilled with horror the distraught woman and fell back on his knees before me to ask
me crucified by God not to do such a thing. She also had ever happened that could not be true
all that he said "the order of those individuals'; but so what? ... If that was not grieved that, but the
noise and fear of scandal to the place found out the case, then Don Celso and, above all,
his daughter, Oh, this ever! ... Cover, cover, and no more than cover! ... Therefore, your
life and a hundred lives and a thousand lives; the agony on the cross, in the glow of a furnace,
dismembered alive ... Buried in health, frogs and snakes.

- What about the theft too? - With ill-concealed interrupted harshly.

-
Lord - I responded as terrified by the sound of the question -.

Although capable off EYU, what do I know HERE saves on my master's wealth, or whether it is
even home?

Here I mentioned, spirit and troubled, after sitting down again, by my repeated mandates how,
not having the courage to do what was proposed by the infamous, or resolution enough to refuse,
had been entertaining him impatience with that objection and that of the continued presence of
myself and other people in the house because of the recurrence of his love (because this happened
in the days that followed the snow) but, although all knew about him to none of this was of
no importance: on the contrary, argued that under those chores and concerns, it was like she
could best achieve their attempts, whether placed by work. This, for good, because if he still
looked very much, would come to bad, then, for bad or good, it had
to be done, and in the air.

The poor do not know what course to take in this circle of hot iron, burning, and as the impatience
of the rogue did not give the slightest respite, one day, the day before Facia of which had me,
had told him: "Since we do not take it with you to solve your hands, "we" decided "we" steal
with ours. By midnight tomorrow, when there is no sign of man in the kitchen or embers spark
at home and sleep everyone in the house, get to the gate of the lane. Then you will hear a
hiss of the air (And whistled softly in a way). Needless to hear you and you come creeping to
astragalus I open the door with such finesse and care that neither of them know about it hinges.
The rest is on us. We'll come to the cat, which is hidden. If any too light to sleep, tummy
to in saecula as soon as you wake up, and the first your master, if it has not been started
by his nephew ... and not left to tie all submissiveness to order the case. So you're forewarned,
and how it has cost you. Knowing that life I play trance, imagine what I care for yours if to
put it in a lawsuit because you have gone a little tongue all day, and because of it does not
find the house at night in the calm and tranquility that always had those hours. "

Having said all this with a fierce cynicism, he departed, leaving more dead than alive Facia.
And so things were, and remain so, how to enjoy hours of sleep or quiet minute, or how fail to
confess at last and dessert, or who, but me?

Interesóme really the case, because in view of the history of the "gentleman" and that their
fidalgos comrades, was not to take it to laugh, and after thinking
for a little while Facia moaned and wrung her hands corpses, said:

-
"So this has to happen tonight?

- That was the threat - he replied,
almost inaudibly for it.

I noticed that the poor woman was in those moments under the double torture of events they declared,
and the fear of what might reach the wrong opinion I had formed of it; inspirábame deep compassion
and to relieve a little of both torments I spoke with:

- First, from words to action there is always some distance, and more if the facts are the magnitude
of it that scares you, so that threats come tonight these bandits to rob my uncle, he met ...
or not be met, and well weighed and measured However, it may be preferable to come, particularly
for you, by that which "Dead dog, no more anger." Second, with the confession that you made
me, and I wish I would have thought I have one the first time I met her husband at the source!
if not come here tonight to pay off all your debts into a single game, I have everything I need
to know to force, by the fact that it brings, to abandon this region callandito mouth and good
walking where no one will see, and leave you in peace santa every day of your life. So I must
not whine or fret, as you groan and anxiety. Let, then, all at my expense, obey me as I have,
starting with arranged the headdress and clothing, after a little brighter for the dark colored
clouds of face; now should return to their regular chores that used to Remango; attend my uncle
as always, and take good care of Tona no doubt start with an apology that in these and other storm
days, you were deceiving his candor. So now is you are absolved of all sin as far as I'm concerned,
and encouragement, and to fulfill the penance the just impose.

This gave two slaps on the back, I got that desperate anguish before cut them into copious
tears and calm, sat up at last with some panache, tried, and not
consented to it, kiss my hands, and after promising that he would
use all breaths to the left of yours and that I had borrowed, to obey
my commands, addressed at the door.

But I do not know why he suddenly saw the light of the room, which was launched, with that
drag force always a time did, to read the weather in sky, one of the paneled door utility.
There was a moment space devouring eyes. I approached me the other paneled, and then she cried:

-
Oh, Don Marcelo! ... If the signals do not lie, how lucky it was! ... Miri miri those mists that
down by ayi ... and Ayi, and toas parties; miri cielu encenizau esi and escuru; miri aqueyas above
of aya black specks, which are spent face Boutros here! ... Pos so unu and otru and EYU in juntu
too, and that cold sienti now I notice that, too is snow pure snow is cooked through and fall pa
hour to hour. If the Lord and my Father in heaven that was so misericordiosu
tampocu the barruntus fail this time!

...

And with that he left the observatory without waiting for my answer, and almost beating out of
cabinet palms and with a grace unknown in a long time she did.

I stayed why deny? vowing not fail because the intimations, then pondered
a while about the events that could occur that night, and the outline
of a plan head, I left my room and went to my uncle.

XXVI

At that moment came Neluco.

I had not seen the patient more than a minute after jump out of bed,
nothing had answered my questions because he dozed, and the low light
then cleared a little the darkness of the bedroom, I had hit anything
either in appearance, but look again and better light, and I found
something very different.

Was much more anxious than in the evening, more bluish color, the glassy-eyed, and, However,
very troubled by coughing and restless in bed. Neluco looked, that he was pressing, and read
in his face grim confirmation of my diagnosis. Suddenly, he said, his voice soft words and syllables
almost not reach more than their breath:

- Today I did not like pinch, guys.

We looked at the doctor and me, and said this:

- Why did you say?

- Because I feel worse than the worst day I have seen.

- Apprehensions of you, - said I, say he is encouraged.

- That has
to be soon - replied the patient.

Neluco, meanwhile, continue to press, sometimes in a doll, now on the other, pulled the ear
to his chest above the heart, and he discovered and felt his legs below the knee caused him Several
questions later, and finally, it was a long time leaning against the bed and looking intently, his
head something fall, as if not knowing what to say or what was flowing in view of the phenomena
he observed. I was in front of Neluco, leaning against the bed as well; and the bedroom door, arms
crossed and feet, and two statues of Melancholy and curiosity, Facia
and daughter waiting for orders.

The first was from my uncle to ask "Another pillow," and that they spent three of which served
as support for his back and head.

As the two women met the mandate and Mullian and arranging the resulting
heap for less discomfort for the patient left the bedroom and I Neluco
behind him, a sign that I did.

- This is for the post - I said, so
they would not hear the patient.

- So serious is it you? - Ask.

-
Very serious - he replied -.

Matter of hours or so. So if you point the slightest desire to confess, he was not bound by any
regard, and if not points ... you seek apuntársele. Do not I own anything new, because everything
would be useless, even mortification a blister beetle. The swelling of the legs, as you have
seen, has taken tonight a big increase ... Natural own and sudden advancement has given the
disease, perhaps by the rapid decline that has occurred in the temperature this morning ... because
they do not know if there you noticed that it is cold since dawn, cutting hair.

It was cold in my imagination a sudden scrambling of ideas, and forgetting the sick, I remembered
more than the attempt by the three outlaws ready for that night, and so I asked the same avidity
Neluco he could do Facia in their "best days" of ghosts and sorrow:

- Do you think it will snow?

- And the sign - I said Neluco -.

All the symptoms are of the heaviest snowfall and durable that hang around here.

- What do you too - insisted - that begins today?

- As already beginning when I came - I said -. See you!

And led me to the door of the laundry, from whose paneled we pass, carried by the icy breeze blowing
outside, some flakes were identical to those I had seen start another
novel.

However, the sky was not so "encenizado" or dark as ever. So I warned the doctor, and he replied:

-
But everything will come, and soon, no doubt you. For the same reason - he said - must be
very shelter care of these rooms. Do not miss it here on the hearth burned so as to keep unchanged
the temperature now is in the sick room. No precaution is to heal, or even improve it, of
course, but we must put on our part, for the sake of it, everything is possible ... Another thing:
given what is happening and, particularly, of what might happen in here that you need more people,
for reasons On another occasion gave similar, and I tell Mari Pepa to come immediately with
his daughter ... You may also say something to Don Sabas, to make it even prevented.

With little more than this and I did some warnings regarding the patient after passing another
little while at his side, he went and I remained Neluco I plunged into the most devilish thoughts.
Satan himself, as a discourse to a conflict to the house, so I had not spun well as it was the one I
feared for the night, if baratijero threats were made, or did not come to stop and fix all
the deus ex machina of the snow, in the dose that Neluco I had predicted. Because otherwise,
"Virgin my heavenly Mother!" As have said in similar cases the gray woman. Don Celso, dying
perhaps those hours, or perhaps already dead, Lita and her mother at his side, assisting him
or praying for him in Facia reproduced paroxysms of distress, three bandits raiding the house,
and I, Chisco and Salces Pito, a clean shot with them, ending with the shock of killing my uncle,
if still alive, and setting about to die of grief for women, two of which, at least, was I have
to defend any risk as I remain a breath of life, a cartridge burn or a grill to wield. I recently
heard by the confession of Facia, I had imagined this picture much easier. Chisco, Salces Pete
and I, armed to the teeth and well perceive, and not breathing lurking in the shadows of the
gate, one of us opening the door as agreed precautions were left outside to hear the whistle of
baratijero, and then the three, as the robbers were entering ... Point-blank fire on them! Neither
first rung of the ladder had to profane with his foot the infamous. Lest it be overwhelmed my
uncle in the crash, would have fooled me before with a lie either: I would have said, for example, who
had seen the night before the wolf around the house on that side, and thought to kill him in the
wee hours of the immediate if returned. Chisco galls and Pito Salces me were well known, and
there was no warning what most people do not give room to the preacher. We bastábamos the three
for that company for the time: the rest, ie collecting the spoils of battle, the charred bodies and
jigote facts, and justice would duly notified. And this will reduce everything. But with the
new look of things, ignored by the bandits, with a house full of women, and death, with their train
of tears and ceremonies and accessories pathetic rule over them, what shocks and what scandals
and desecration and sacrilege which would not produce a battle in the astragalus, a shot dry, their
respective oaths and screams and bloodied bodies and throbbing! Finally, if not managed the conflict
of snow, had to make me and have the rope Tarumba and gray woman resigned to his recent troubles.
For one thing, and this calmed me something concerns, there were many hours ahead, it would be
what was taking courses and how carried the suggested time, and what was up in the morning
the aggravation of my uncle. I was well supplied with arms and ammunition; Chisco too, and
me living at home, and to Chorcos, and take care to tell me in time for him to stay to ensure
the pretext the serious condition of Mr. Celso. No longer fancy that, instead of waiting for
the robbers in the doorway of the house, they could put together an ambush in the immediate
rocks it and shoot at close range as the door is placed along the three. But this plan was
less "Conclusive" than the other, and was exposed to bankruptcy that they could get out faces of
the assailants, much as we attend to justice, by all divine and human laws. Still yet will weigh
and would measure both plans if the case came in due time, and opt for the better.

This and more I pondered mechanically by tacking inside the house after have fired the doctor. Dando,
suddenly, well, the point then, I decided to see how he was my uncle
of his mortal anguish.

But I went in his room without a trace before one of the glass in the door into the sunshine through
the dining room. The continued darkening sky and the sparkling snow thickens. I liked the
symptom. My uncle, though between continuous feigned coughing, seemed calmer, and slept. Facia,
sitting away from him and attentive to whatever might happen, after I had I referred to sick
tiptoed to the bed, his eyes told me:

- Well it going, eh?

To which I responded with another look and a gesture

- From the best.

But God knows that neither the question nor the answer referred to the condition of the patient,
but the temporal aspect.

They spent two hours with no inside or outside the house occurred novelty worthy of being noticed,
and came, but without the usual noise, Lita and her mother and even the Don Pedro Nolasco.
The ups and downs, relatively happy, in a dark drama that unfolded, and walk around in those
aged area, much the spirit lifted me. Came three characters deeply impressed by the news that
had given them Neluco. The giant Greeting all, I shook hands in silence, with two tremendous
shock that soon I dismantle the arm at the shoulder, his granddaughter and his daughter, his
eyes misted over, I asked, loosened as they began to shelters, and in a low voice a little shaky,
news drawer on the current state of my uncle. Tell him, not as bad as they expected them and
this encouraged them to come very quietly to the door of the bedroom. Since there were watching
the battle that did not stop within the ruins of Don Celso, between the dream you drowsy and coughing
he insisted, until it rolled over in bed in one of those clashes, which left half suffocated,
mouth and eyes wide open and collecting air breathing, even with their hands. Then he hid quickly,
almost jumping in the Hall, and did both to me, not lost sight of the grief and sympathy painted on
the face. To all this, Don Pedro Nolasco, standing, rigid, motionless and silent, in the same
place that had been planted at the door. Access soon passed, and turned fall ill in the morass
of before ... But what the hell I saw that I was captivated Lituca more attention at that time
that the shock of his grandfather and the plight of my uncle? What was in it again and strange
to me? Well, quite simply, tears their eyes and pained expression on his boyish face, and I wondered
as I left my doubts: "But when this girl is cuter? "When he laughs and gurgles as the birds
the mountain, without sorrow or care, or feel, as now, in the absence of pain themselves, compassion
that will inspire others? "And not knowing which of these two extremes to choose, I remained
with the two, because it's true that laughing or crying, I was really cute creature.

Fearing that too much impressed with frequent contemplation of that distressing picture human
misery, so new to her, advised her to refrain from entering the room the patient.
 There is one thing in particular that troubles me--he is, or
rather he is not--," and here poor Abbie stopped, and a little silence followed. After a moment
she spoke again: "Oh, Ester, you will learn what I mean without my telling you; it is something
in which I greatly need your help. I depend upon you; I have looked forward to your coming,
on his account as well as on my own. I know it will be better for him."

Ester longed to ask what the "something" was, and what was expected of her; but the pained
look on Abbie's face deterred her, and she contented herself by saying:

"Where is he now?"

"In college; coming next week. I long, on his account, to have a home of my own. Houses, palaces, huts, trees and sky, to look back with longing and with love the liquid
sheet of water, watched before and marred by the cold. Candida diadem girds the tops of the
mountains will melt, increasing the crystal streams. Trees, naked green foliage, spring blossoms
unexpectedly and shoot fresh lush, dressing of tender and shiny leaves. The birds come in flocks,
guided by unerring instinct. Turban cranes silence of the night with their shrill cries, when
they come forward in symmetrical and well-ordered phalanx. Thousand swallows and songbirds,
returning from his long emigration wave to soft peep or squeak happy, or trills varied, ancient
known houses. The stork wading immigration from East or Africa, and find the nest the old tower
or in the high vantage point of the house. Maybe there's blonde country girl German put his
neck, before it was a romantic film with a sign. When again, the cops see the girl that answers
a mufti of Cairo or some holy man Mecca with another sign written in Arabic. Meanwhile, the frost
has cleared tight covering the fields and grass and flowers, as if they had been oppressed
under that weight appear by magic. Anemone nemorosa is one of the earliest to open there calyx
to announce the Spring. But a thousand flowers, more fragrant and no less beautiful, appear after
calling and exiting the breeze to breathe the aromas they exhale.

The breeze comes, like the bold prince fairy tale, and goes through
the elusive forest, and enters the palace silently, and goes to bed
and slept in the haunted princess, and gives a kiss of love.

Then he undoes the evil spell, silence and the rest are bartered for sudden death in movement,
music, excitement and life. As if they were to be held divine weddings, upholster and beautifies
everything. They open the treasures unfold finery, put tables and dressers of the royal banquet,
and looks over the wide thalamus cover of purple, emerald and gold. The guests have already said
that pilgrims come from far across the sky. Others who do not pilgrimage, awakening from long
sleep, are lined their richest robes, and go well. All as good subjects, they try to imitate
princes. And as the princes are in love and will marry, all fall in love and marry. It seems
that hardly any living being that does not get drunk with the juice of magical herbs or the perfume
of strange flowers, which move to love, delight and joy, inducing to life which would increase
and spread and open new ways of being. Certain fictions poetic reality seems to have then,
and believe in the dudain, Rachel was looking tired to be sterile in the lotus, which was to
forget all the comrades of Ulysses, and Nepentes, that cheered the soul, and she gave Telemachus Elena.
 This session must
adjourn immediately. Shall you and I have prayers together to-night? Will it seem homelike
to you? Can you play I am Sadie for just a little while?"

"I should like it," Ester answered faintly.

"Shall I read, as you are so weary?" and, without waiting for a reply, she unclasped the lids
of her little Bible. "Are you reading the Bible by course? Where do you like best to read,
for devotional reading I mean?"

"I don't know that I have any choice?" Ester's voice was fainter still.

"Haven't you? I have my special verses that I turn to in my various needs. Where are you and
Sadie reading?"

"No where," said Ester desperately.

Abbie's face expressed only innocent surprise

"Don't you read together? You are roommates, aren't you? Now I always thought it would be so
delightful to have a nice little time, like family worship, in one's own room."

"Sadie doesn't care anything about these things, she isn't a Christian," Ester said at length.

"Oh, dear! isn't she?" What a very sad and troubled tone it was in which Abbie spoke. "Then
you know something of my anxiety; and yet it is different. She is younger than you, and you
can have her so much under your influence. At least it seems different to me. How prone we
are to consider our own anxieties peculiarly trying."

Ester never remembered giving a half hour's anxious thought to this which was supposed to be
an anxiety with her in all her life; but she did not say so, and Abbie continued: "Who is your
particular Christian friend, then?"

What an exceedingly trying and troublesome talk this was to Ester! What was she to say?

Clearly nothing but the truth.

"Abbie, I haven't a friend in the world."

"You poor, dear child; then we are situated very much alike after all--though I have dear friends
outside of my own family; but what a heavy responsibility you must feel in your large household,
and you the only Christian. Do you shrink from responsibility of that kind, Ester? Does it
seem, sometimes, as if it would almost rush you?"

"Oh, there are some Christians in the family," Ester answered, preferring to avoid the last
part of the sentence; "but then--"

"They are half way Christians, perhaps. I understand how that is; it really seems sadder to
me than even thoughtless neglect."

Be it recorded that Ester's conscience pricked her. This supposition on Abbie's part was not
true. Dr. Van Anden, for instance, always had seemed to her most horribly and fanatically in
earnest. But in what rank should she place this young, and beautiful, and wealthy city lady?
Surely, she could not be a fanatic?

Ester was troubled.

"Well," said Abbie, "suppose I read you some of my sweet verses. Do you know I always feel
a temptation to read in John? There is so much in that book about Jesus, and John seemed to
love him so."

Ester almost laughed. What an exceedingly queer idea--a temptation to read in any part of the
Bible. I have not ever known the mind to marry there, or any like it, and yet, here
I come I sweat every time I think she may be flirting with a dandy right now or the mulatto
musician.

- The proof, my friend, there is no way to serve two masters.

- In business for love or courtship, it can serve up to twenty, and
more than two terms.

The of Havana will be my Venus Cythera, [44] Alquízar my guardian angel, my Ursuline nun, sister
of charity.

- It is not here for love or mere flirtations, it is much to love
and marry someone who does not love so much.

I see that you do not understand the half of it. To enjoy a lot in life a man should not marry
the woman he adores, but the woman who wants. Do you understand now?

- I understand that you have not born to married.

Isabel's Continuing morning excursion, far removed from the conversation they had for young habaneros
on it, it was the well. There, as everywhere, imposed respect their presence. As far as the
water carrier, suspended the work, lest by pouring water in the pan
splatter suit her mistress, who had come too.

On the contrary, the native coachman, more or less than the age of
one and that for having raised her the view was more confident, did
not stop the horses bathed since removed hat.

Nor bent the knee, like his neighbor, desiring the good morning,
a fact sure we did not warn Isabel, and for being used, and not consistent
with philanthropic feelings of humiliation, or the slave.

- Blas,
he said, addressing the water carrier, does much water the well?

-
A chocolate (by many), girl.

- How do you know?, She asked.

- Ah,
girl!

I always hear bu, bu, bu.

- Then you can see the movement of water.

- It can, girl, you can. I look Jervas.

- Take, said Isabel approaching even more the curb.

- Sumelsé look, asked the black very scared. No, not looking. Mu flamenco. Diablo rempuja girls.

Partner
of fuss Riose Leocadio and suggested that he could meet Miss their curiosity without risk if stated
in a branch of the rope while the two of them fastened the other end.

In this way it was, but Elizabeth could not see too much background at depth, the thickness
of the curb of masonry and countless ferns attached to the interior
walls, with its graceful palms near the well's mouth shut.

Then Elizabeth asked the coachman if horses were available to undertake
Next day trip:

- Girl Isabelita, "he said in language more intelligent
than his companion, Pajarito and new herraura Venao need.

- Why did
not you tell me, Leocadio of my sins?

- And I've had time?

Until last night I did not know na trip. Willing to bathe the horses was to tell the girl.

- Well, you have to go to town to iron.

- I'll willing to lunch.

Give me the child for herraor ballot. If you have not emborrachao, we're fine.

- Therefore, go as early as possible.

And check now to quell the horses run and before time.

- The girl
always figure that one kills the horses.

- You should call mata-horses,
not Leocadio.

Isabel did not stop in the other units of the property on that side of the sugar mill, but
the crossing to the opposite, he missed one of field slaves and reported Contramayoral that patient
was not submitted in line the night before. Peter rebuked did not give timely notice, following the
nursing law. The patient sat on the floor beside the fire, dejected and with a kerchief on her
head. By early providence the nurse had provided paths gourds of orange peel infusion, sweetened
sugar from scratching. Isabel took his pulse, he realized he had a fever and is available collect
in the meantime came the doctor.

Back to the main house, considered the stable and the living room where coffee was chosen.

The
expected guests on the porch, along with his sister, his aunt and his father. Seemed natural
that as time who had performed the duties of administrator the inheritance and things attached
to it, it felt self-satisfied and more likely for the performance of his duties as a homemaker.
The smiling face and lively that turned to the side of the family, it began to see the owner
and tender loving slave submissive, I knew to be kind and attentive to their peers and friends.
Since that time devoted to gifts and pleasant as it could make your
short stay in the coffee.

As the morning continue to remain fresh and little sun, his friends suggested Isabel briefly
visit to the border of the home garden. That was his Eden. Little art was reached gardening,
much less of botany, nor Cuba had spread a taste for flowers or other gardeners Pedregal French
had imported from France the great variety of roses pink invasion brought forward to Havana.
But Isabel was florist by instinct and determined crowd, and as he had planted with his hands,
knew choir history of all the flowers that grew in his garden was delightful. Saved himself, however,
even mentioning the pale rose flowers that Leonardo, for a year full, was grafted Barbed Rose
red flowers. Showed strong and fresh, boasting at each node either pink color, faithful and
poetic imitation of two people linked by the most sensitive human
of human passions: love.

Later visit the gardens of Isabel reached on horseback to the four youth through the plantation
residents. I felt the need to distract her, nay, stunned with continuous movement. Apart from that
it was not left satisfied with his explanation of the Eve with Leonardo,
it hurt to move away from peaceful home and loving father, and rushing
that kind of fever, infallible symptom of extreme medical condition
known by nostalgia.

Well attended on 2 December and came the melancholy morning of the 24th. Long before there was clear
Guanajay match for the coachman to the relief of the three horses. In the chair, and armed general
use with the whip and long machete out of tortoiseshell and silver, waiting for the travelers Leocadio
the handsome coachman.

Nearby were several slaves and more distant the other servants, apparently preparing to undertake
the tasks of the new day, in fact, as we shall see, in expectation of the sad scene that there
would be represented.

Isabel eager to shorten the painful moment of separation, embraced his father race took the Gamboa
arm and gave him, his eyes dim with tears, came to East Avenue to take the carriage. The ladies
were in costume rigorous way of black silk and straw hat or cap in the French style. In his
appearance was observed general movement followed by a murmur among
the spectators slaves, who burst a cry or the monotonous chant of
the day before: The girl is sin, probe cravo cries, repeated in solemn
chorus in the morning light of the new day, barely illuminated the
top of the most steep trees.

This unexpected greeting to puzzle over Elizabeth. Waved his handkerchief to the group slaves
in farewell and hurried over the step. Then he noticed the Contramayoral.

Stand erect, silent, head erect, showing through his shirt cabezones plump neck and chest of
the stalwart, Spartacus and his manly muscles, skinny women the sensitivity of the uneducated
mind, was the bed of silver brake restless Gamboa horse. Beside him was his wife, also motionless
and silent, with a child arms, deeply distressed, as showing the
great drops of tears rolling ebony her cheeks.

So touched as she, Isabel put her hand on his shoulder, printed a
sweet kiss on the forehead of the child and told her husband:

- Pedro,
Pedro!, Do not forget my orders.

Without waiting for an answer took refuge in the carriage.

In the asylum began loving importunity might be called slaves.

Especially black women, convinced that he was leaving his lady, surrounded the chitin and
the most significant flocked to the bracket, stuck his head under the curtain or helmet, and,
as usual, wounded cried out:

- Bye, girl! Come back soon, girl! Do not stay there, my little girl! God and the Virgin carry
with it the girl!

Accompanying these statements, which have resulted in favor of the reader, with its extravagant
shows, and gently press your feet, kiss his a hundred times as are the hands that she wanted
to reject.

All this said and expressed with genuine feeling, with exquisite tenderness, and while contemplating
his angelic face, which that of an idol or a sacred image.

Responsive, but ignorant and simple slaves, had to be the most beautiful love and good for women,
by a delicate and supernatural, and it showed in his own way rude
and idolatrous.

Gradually, and by prayers, pray for mild reprimands, Isabel managed to fend off other more petulant,
gave the order to leave, in tears and said: - I'm no good at these
scenes.

     
      A time to mount Gamboa threw a disdainful
      glance the show around the carriage,
      and High said, so that Peter heard that it was the step:

- Ay! What
is missing here was a good leather!

         

The coachman drew attention to the horse's reins from outside, and when Elizabeth was able to
take them in hand and the chitin and the passengers were saved and were almost home the limits
on the west, the plantation La Luz.

CHAPTER III

Sweet Cuba!, Look in your heart in the highest degree, deep the beauties of the physical world
the horrors of the moral world.

JOSE MARIA HEREDIA

Call Back Down or Low Back on the island of Cuba, a region that falls to the west side Meridian
Havana, and, beginning in the vicinity of Guanajay, ending in Cape San Antonio. It is famous for
the excellent snuff which is produced in the fertile vegas its many rivers, mainly on the southern
slopes of the Cordillera of the organs. To raise such dictation seems to be a weighty reason,
namely: leveling the ground floor of that territory, compared with the previously described high.

Start
the fall a few miles west of Guanajay noticeable change course rough in the face of the country.
Soil color, its components, vegetation, gender climate and culture
in general are quite different.

So the rapid decline is a ramp that goes and a hill for which comes from the Vuelta Abajo.

At the edge of this precipitous ramp unfolds before the eyes of the traveler a huge box, Gorgeous,
no canvas that contains, or will cover human eyes in all its grandeur. Imagine a seemingly plain,
bounded on the west by the mists of the distant horizon, north by barren hills that run along
the coast, and south by the rugged and altered hills that are part of the extensive mountain range
in the Vuelta Abajo. We say plain apparent because it is in fact a succession of transverse valleys,
narrow and deep, formed by as many streams, creeks and streams that descend from the slopes
northern forests and, after a crooked course and gentle, are lost in large and unhealthy watersheds
and malaria in Mariel Cabanas.

A great view of the picture, Elizabeth, who was an artist by feeling and I loved everything good
and beautiful in nature, he commanded the horse to the edge of the ramp and started walking
ground, without waiting for the proposal were accepted by their peers. Eight o'clock am. Ensanchábase
there the road, describing a Zeda to reduce where possible steepness of the slope. For this reason,
although both sides were covered over stretch of a tree grows and leafy, and their tops sticking out much
of the plateau level occupied by passengers, or obstructed, we say,
the panoramic view beyond.

Amazing was the vegetation. Despite the lateness of the winter season, this had dress their
finery and proud smile to the first rays of sun almo. Do you want to had not trod the ground
of man or the hull of the beast, there sprang, as it were, pour the modest grass or creeping
grass, the fresh rosemary, the graceful shrub, serpentine vine and the stalwart tree. Even
the green branches and dried branches, like hair invisible beings, hung the parasites of all kinds
and forms, which live on the moisture that is constantly saturated the atmosphere of the tropics.
The soil and the forest, in a word, filled with flowers and in bouquets, and varied in appearance
and festoons of diversity nuances, were a set so handsome as picturesque, even for people accustomed
in view of the fields feracísimos of Cuba.

For more novelty and charm, gave his life there in bizarre ways: boiled materially the nearby forest
with all the insects and birds almost as prolific breeds Cuban soil. All of a buzzing, whistling,
or trine between the dark or thick branches grass, and made concert just as harmonious as they
can never do men voice or musical instruments. Blessed are they that small pure and helpless
not excited Hunter greed or feared to be interrupted in their raids and fluttering innocent while
collecting honey in the cup of the flowers, or jumping from branch to branch, rattled the leaves
gave off the spray congealed in them, and drops to give the dry litter soil, mending a shower
that did not part the clouds.

There is no parity in the country's face seen on both sides of the mountains. For the south,
the plain with their coffee plantations, pastures and plantations of snuff, continues almost to
the end of the island and is the most fun and laughter you can imagine. Unlike the North side,
on the same parallel is offered so deep, rough and dreary to the eyes of traveler stepping
create another land and climate. Not because it is now grown mostly part to Honda Bay beyond,
this negative impression fades. Perhaps because their crops are sugar mills, because the climate
is certainly more humid and warm, because the soil is black and muddy, because the atmosphere
is heavier, for man and beast are most oppressed and abused there than in other parts of the
island, its appearance only admiration then it is converted in disgust and joy in shame.

Such, more or less, Isabel felt in the presence of that piece of the famous Vuelta Abajo. Its
doors, which were in fact the heights where passengers were being
held, could not be more splendid, could be described as golden.

But what about down there? Would even it the abode of peace? Would that for white, rest and contentment
sometime in their life for black, in a country where unsafe and loud and incessant work was imposed
as a punishment and not as a duty of man in society? What I aspire to and what could be eager to wait
that long past the day when the night is coming and going to sleep God in his holy grace, granted
to the most miserable of creatures? "He made some, Meanwhile worker, free and honest bread
to sustain a virtuous and a Christian family? Those properties accounted for the largest colossal
wealth in the country, were the signs of content and the pure pleasure of their masters? Would
that, peace of mind for who knowingly crystallized cane juice, honey with the blood of thousands
of slaves?

And if it happened naturally Gamboa married, sooner or later have to reside more or less time
in the La Tinaja, where they are now headed in a walk.

Naturally, too, crowded into his mind, as in fantastic procession, the main features its brief existence.
He recalled his stay in the convent of the Ursuline nuns in Havana where in the silence and peace
is nurtured his heart of most healthy principles Christian virtue and charity. As in contrast
recalled the death of his pious mother, the orphan it was sunk, its desolation and deep regret,
the same calm days and had then been happening in the coffee plantation La Luz, beautiful garden,
an imitation of that lost our first parents, flanked by his closest friends and idolized by
their slaves as it was not queen any on earth. He recalled, in short, the distressing situation
that left his father, ailing and as in years, which would not entirely approve this trip, perhaps
because it could be prelude to more severe and prolonged separation.

Were very brief silence and seclusion of the young, but so intense, so live your emotion he could
not avoid tears filled her eyes. Leonardo was at his side, taking by the bridle the spirited
horse, and now for the fun of your sad ideas, and to miss her cicerone, began to describe the highlights
of the magnificent panorama that had to view. Had passed him several times in those places,
he knew his ground spans the and wanted to give samples to friends of his good memory. The first
mill at our feet said, is the de Zayas. The trees in this part of the hill we can not see the
factories, but those are your last reed. Must be grinding, because up here can smell of molasses.
Still grinding mill and mules. We have to go through the same batey. Then in the center of this
great valley, slightly to our right, next to the trunk of that ceiba, one can see the red tiles
of the very old boiler house wit Escobar or Mariel. According to mom tells me, was the first
to be promoted in this part of the Tour Below. You should also be grinding as I see smoke coming
from the grove of batey. Then Do not see DVDs, a white cloud that crosses the valley in all
its latitude at the level of trees describing a portion of twists and turns? A poet would say
it was a gauze of gauze. I think the skin of a snake released into
the flight of the monster mountain the sea.

Otherwise it is not, although repair DVDs, the vapors that mark the course Twisted Rio Hondo,
notable for the narrowness of his cause and for the great avenues which in rainy weather.
Now there will be low and bridges to pass without getting wet feet. On the other hand, right here
in the northwest turn, "make out DVDs, a forest very green and dense which towers that seem
to hover round? That's the genius Valvanera Don Claudio Martinez de Pinillos, Count of Villanueva
newly created.

To the left, Rubin foot of the mountain or Ruby, the reeds are of wit La Begoña, and right not
yet discernible, The Tinaja, about a mile from the village of Bankruptcy
Axe.

Was very steep descent on that side of the vast valley of the sugar
mills, and drawn in zig zag but still worked hard to keep the horse
carriage at the appropriate level. Calesero shortened the reins of
the beam, fearful of a slip; and beat down the buttocks and slid it
was not going to sign. With that the springs creaked leather, on which
rocked the box of chitin in the guise of shale, and sweat began to
sprout from the trunk of the ears and flanks of the exhausted beasts.

-
Gradually, Leocadio said Elizabeth coming to the most bitter of the
hill. I had not seen I walk more pending.

Leonardo rode the right
abutment of the carriage, and said in jest:

- Is Isabel who speaks?
It did not commence by reminding God that he was the maker and ruler of the universe, or that
he was omnipotent and omnipresent and eternal, or any of the solemn forms of prayer to which
her ears were used, but simply: "Oh, dear Savior, receive these petitions which we bring. Turn
to thyself the heart of the lad who ridicules the efforts of his teacher; lead the little brother
into the strait and narrow way; gather that entire class into thy heart of love"--and thus
for each separate request a separate petition; and as the meeting progressed it grew more strange
every moment to Ester. Each one seemed to have a word that he was eager to utter; and the prayers,
while very brief, were so pointed as to be almost startling. They sang, too, a great deal,
only a verse at a time, and whenever they seemed to feel like it. Her amazement reached its
hight when she felt a little rustle beside her, and turned in time to see the eager light in
Abbie's eyes as she said:

"One of my class has decided for Christ."

"Good news," responded the leader. "Don't let us forget this item of thanksgiving when we pray."

As for Ester she was almost inclined not to believe her ears. Had her cousin Abbie actually
"spoken in meeting?" She was about to sink into a reverie over this, but hadn't time, for at
this point the leader arose.

"I am sorry," said he, "to cut the thread that binds us, but the hour is gone. Another week
will soon pass, though, and, God willing, we shall take up the story--sing." Then the little
company moved with a quiet cheerfulness toward the door.

"Have you enjoyed the evening?" Abbie asked in an eager tone, as they passed down the aisle.

"Why, yes, I believe so; only it was rather queer."

"Queer, was it? How?"

"Oh, I'll tell you when we get home. Your minister is exactly behind us, Abbie, and I guess
he wants to speak with you."

There was a bright flush on Abbie's face, and a little sparkle in her eye, as she turned and
gave her hand to the minister, and then said in a demure and softly tone: "Cousin Ester, let
me make you acquainted with my friend, Mr. Foster."

CHAPTER XI.

THE NEW BOARDER.

"I don't know what to decide, really," Mrs. Ried said thoughtfully, standing, with an irresolute
air, beside the pantry door. "Sadie, hadn't I better make these pies?"

"Is that the momentous question which you can't decide, mother?"

Mrs. Ried laughed. "Not quite; it is about the new boarder. We have room enough for another
certainly, and seven dollars a week is quite an item just now. If Ester were at home, I shouldn't
hesitate." Each step was reason to engage
the attention of his enthusiastic friend, and telling the festoons of bonuses pending or white
bells of all the bushes on the banks of reeds, and Guines of reeds, which compared with the
egrets of countless martial warriors herding, gently rocked by the gentle breeze of the morning
prayer groups that Tomeguin low rumble, like a trailing wind and large crowds, followed by
some distance the direction of travelers, brushing with the herbs and then disappeared between
the logs of reeds or savanna lively late flight, which came with a crash in the thicket and
lighting with great difficulty on the first leaf of cane it faced in its heedless leakage,
or the elusive white heron made his way through the branches of coastal oak and with the long
neck retreated to the back and feet still dangling in his flight course the stream, or the
flock of parrots riots covering the wild orange and only they looked when they clung to the
golden fruit to extract the seed, or the hawk, in Finally, Cuba eagle, which gave sharp cries
and screams as she hovered above more affected palms, between earth and sky.

Finally, after ten o'clock in the morning, travelers crossed the reeds
of wit Valvanera, in view of their large factories.

Two miles later came to town Join bankruptcy. Here are divided into two the way they had, one that
twisted the west and was the Back Down the road, and the other, the narrow, which served as
input to refineries sugar, already established in this region of the coast. This took our travelers.
In passes through the town several people recognized and greeted with friendly respect for Leonardo
Gamboa.

Below the country presented itself as rough, uneven and hilly as the previous route, but The tree
was more lush and lusty, almost primitive, and noisy streams lined ground and clean running water
to be lost at the bottom of the bay of Mariel, or in the open sea North. After half an hour's
walk below the forest, where no sunlight penetrated, were seen in a sugar cane fields on the
steep slope of a hill, bounded by a fence Paperback made of segments, which kept horizontal strips
of wood or stakes fork kneeling on the ground and tied together at intervals, for safety, with a vine
that, when green, is quite flexible and elastic, known in the Tour Down with the name colorado
vulgar, Bauchinis heterophylla.

After that, continuing short, rough parallel to this close, at which time they won travelers
the height of the hill, were offered the full extent and greatness of cane fields and there
in the middle of the table, the group changed its factories, crowning other more plain and
hill wider base. That was the genius of a barrel, and Leonardo Gamboa, who served as guide, he
showed his friends with a sense of pride. To It had every reason, not only by the dollar value
representing the estate, and social considerations are kept to their owners, but also for the
beautiful picture and picturesque of the whole, provided a good distance, effectively concealing
spots and spots inherent in almost all the works, human and divine.

The road where passengers were boarding up there was called to the Beach because it served the
transportation of sugars to the town of Mariel, from which were shipped and led in schooners to
market in La Habana. Crossed the hill by its height and had established talanquera it no less a rustic
fence, it was reduced to a few yards in the rough, tucked their heads into the holes of two
parallel rails. Leaning against the fence, and in his meeting with the talanquera, stood a
cabin or hut of the ground rod or gabled, so droopy that the roof was composed of whole leaves
of the palm outstretched side or sides, with the tips resting on the ground.

Leonardo came forward to see why he was not in his job and opened the black watchman the talanquera.
To this end, he planted his horse before the only entrance to the hut, and tilting the body, tried
to register the interior. Useless work: the door was too narrow or mouth and low, and two feet
beyond the threshold could not penetrate human eyes, not by the living daylight out, but because
of the dense cloud of smoke from burning wood inside and not had other means of escape than
that.

- I do not see anything and I doubt there is a living soul in the
hut, Gamboa said talking with the ladies the chitin, standing in the
road.

Damn black!

- Maybe you sleep, "said Isabel.

- If not the sleep of death, "said Gamboa, I swear I did not save
someone from a face down.

- What is it?

Meneses said. How talanquera open? I will open and not lose the marriage so.

- You will not do so, Leonardo replied angrily. I do not agree.

- Well, his voice suggested Isabel Argentina and sweet.

Open the coachman, the horses are tired tired to run away.

Leocadio, Get down.

- No, no, Isabella, Leonardo said, more and more angry. I can not agree on that, I should not
spoil. If the watchman opens talanquera alive, that for that and
for more I have been there.

His watch and added immediately:

- They have already struck twelve, at which time the black loose to
eat.

If we had arrived here a little earlier, we would have heard the bell of the mill. Bet that
the Taita watchman has gotten into the reeds to meet with some of his ships. For the living
God pay! Nothing, not anywhere. Cayman! Cayman!, Cried the whole stream.

The mountains around were the only ones who gave back the echo of their voices shaking continued,
deep, sinister, and then started to bark a bulldog puppy in the hut. There is the watchman, he
thought the young man, and does not sleep for the trouble of opening the talanquera. I will go out
kicking, added high, taking a punch in the pommel. Dismounted without delay and went into the
hut, keeping the horse by the bridle.

Too bad these words rang in my ears those oaths of Elizabeth modest, even when not to embarrass
your friend or irritate more against the poor slave, was saved from represent the absurdity and even
the risk of their final purpose, if it was hidden on purpose to have hidden a fellow in the hut
or any other cause.

Fortunately, none of that happened. At that moment the ladies from the carriage, and coachman
Meneses horse heard the sound of branches in the nearby forest, agitated by a person or animal
made his way with some difficulty, and then appeared on the shore a shabby old black, a woolen
cap on his head, a long stick in his hand knotted, which served as support perhaps not kiss the
ground with his forehead, as his body made an arch by age, for the work or the inveterate habit
of living in houses with low ceilings. He perceived travelers out of the woods just because
time stopped for a party to indecisive should take, and in the tall grass releasing something that glittered
in the sun's rays, and seemed bottle or other container of the sort, then continued walking
right into the carriage by the opposite the hut.

This fortuitous circumstance saved the first match of the wrath of
his master, who, as soon left the hut, he recognized from a distance
and fell on him gallop.

But while mounted his horse and saved the distance that separated him from his attempted victim
had time to unconsciously it is put under the ladies.

It is likely that the unfortunate slave had no news that people were expected at the mill, or
come them came by guiding his young master. Right hand does not know
either.

But note that was coming at full speed, and cried: - Ah, you dog! Now I see!, Could not unknown
or stop his knees at the foot of the horse, who, contents and all, he threw boat ride to the
breast only.

The scare of the ladies was great. Rosa made an exclamation of horror,
Dona Juana repeated: - Jesus!

Jesus! and Isabel medium was incorporated into the seat, pulled out of the carriage arm and said
more angry than frightened - not kill him, Leonardo!

- Thank Vds. it that are ahead, "said Leonardo, otherwise I think he killed. I feel so angry
at him.

- Ah, my suamito!, Said the old man to be incorporating work again knees, as humble sinner in the
presence of his angry judge.

- Where were you, dog witch? asked the young man, and without waiting for the answer continued asking
or saying, "What were you doing in the bush? Why were not you at your hut? What you had gone to swap
for tavern liquor with the scraping of the people that steal in the mill? Yes, yes. I swear.

-
No, my suamito, but no, sumercé! Cayman Rapaura not steal! Cayman aguaurdiente not drink!

- Shut up, you old dog! Walk, run to open the talanquera. Do not run yet? Do not you run? The
Mayoral and you'll stir up a little leather. Go!

Fly! ... and tried to hit (Fortunately without hitting) a kick in the head from the horse.

Seemed
to be the watchman man over sixty years of age. He's graying at least head, and even the little
beard that covered his upper lip, a sure sign of aging in people of his race. A disproportionately
long arms and bony, twitching fingers linked, as if with leprosy, eyes sullen boys and sad, sadder
than ever, when talanquera after open, glanced at the ladies of chitin and appeared to beg
protect him from the wrath of his master.

After the first moment of irritation and blindness, realized he had been too passionate and quite
rude in front of women who, besides being under its protection, would enjoy their hospitality
at the mill. The horse had been more generous than he since, being able to not hit the slave
when he found him lying in his path. Had Gamboa ashamed of his behavior, but very proud to
recognize his fault and amend it with openness demanded by the case, merely to refer the main
features of life watchman, of course, slandering of way.

- Not included DVDs, said that the Taita Cayman is as it seems, an old helpless and meek or
loyal and humble slave. Vds. must know that the nickname has not it have been smoke with straw
is the most cunning, evil, cunning trimmed there, nor so ignorant does not practice certain
arts, which give important consideration among his people. Passes witch and become invisible
when it suits or is in danger. Build idols charms have magical properties in certain cases.
Nobody would see, hear or understand, and yet, day and night no one and nothing escapes him,
and know, like the alligator, play possum to better secure the dam.

The youth has been spent on the mountain fled and his repeated escapes
runaway has visited all of Cuzco and made friends with Maroons most
famous Vuelta Abajo.

It is now too old for such jogging, and considered to have been one of the founders of La Tinaja,
the only that survives of the first poles knocked down here, Mom
had him put the watchman, and keeps him in that position against the
wishes of employees who know their history and bad habits.

When you want or should not beaten the dog guard or finer. Can said to be free: raising chickens,
fat every year one or two pigs to sell, and money buried somewhere, and has a mare, which
may turn at night to the boundaries of the property.

But as I say, is very cunning and evil and I'd bet any thing that
was not far from the hut and its position without any intentional
object and failed to look.

     For the cane is seen with his
      fellow wits, for the mount only with Maroons or the bartenders of
the people to change snuff sugar, brandy or other anything like that.

-
That must be, Leonardo, Rosa began by saying, as I thought it brought
a ...

The aunt and sister, plus she advised, would not let her finish
the sentence, and no one else spoke in the rest of the road.

         

Between one and two in the afternoon, under a blazing sun's reflected rays whose leaves cane if
they were polished swords, passengers were cleared in the big house The Tinaja housing.

CHAPTER IV

Most black of slavery is not black.

JOSE DE LA LUZ Y CABALLERO

Under more than one farm concept was a superb wit The Tinaja, qualifier was well deserved for
his long and lush fields of sugar cane-honey, for the three hundred or more arms to cultivate,
for his great drove of oxen, and his vast rolling, his steam up twenty-five horses of force,
newly imported from North America, the cost of twenty and many thousand dollars, excluding the
horizontal mill, also new and there were armed cost half of that sum.

The boiler house or wit was as strong as vast, almost entirely exempt building, whose armor was
made up of pairs logs, supported by heavy sills and these pillars,
those pitchforks in the country, without squaring no more polish and
that he could give to zuela Biscayan the carpenter-architect hired
by the farm for such work.

Had stunning and rustic air that seemed to claim his destiny. Under her roof tiles red were
entertained the mill, the steam train and develop the Jamaican sugar, mounted on three ovens or fornallas.
Were not at the same level all these equipment: the boiler was several feet lower, and to move from one
department to another had to descend two broad stone steps, flanking the level of mill and machine
steam. This was done so for it to have an easy drop the juice, which on leaving the running
masses by a wooden trough to trough, here called Mansehra, where something was cleaned and followed
the pan or pot to receive the first boil.

Parallel with this building was another big and more down, shut down by its sides with masonry
walls and a single entrance, facing the boiler mentioned. This was the house for draining and
drying of sugar. In other woodwork were separated, blacksmithing, nursing and the house can be called
maternity rooms overseer, the stockman, carpenter, foreman and master
of sugar, who is temporarily residing also wit.

To the engineer, whose office at that time played a young American, had built a temporary room with cedar
boards, near the machine steam only warm place in that ugly old house. Followed later formed a
group, over two hundred thatched cottages or huts, with their pens and chicken coops attached
to the abode of the three hundred slaves, or endowment of wit. The other houses exempt, namely:
those of bagasse, beat the mud to the purification of sugar and other less important were erected
in the space mediator between the boiler and drain.

The former plant, known as the quintessential "housing" contained in trapezoid parallelogram,
sitting on the gentle slope of a hill, the difference of level was sought to remedy raising the
floor by the front. Was a single body with thick masonry factory hollow red tile roof, wide porch,
square room in the middle, flanked on both sides by two bays of rooms, corridors run by the
interior, rectangular patio in the center, enclosed by a high wall with casement windows, and a cover
on the canvas the fund, which closed with a lock and lock and was
used for internal communication the servants of the house.

In the courtyard grew many flowers, orange trees, fig and vines that did not contribute little to
its greenery and the freshness of dark rooms, although to break the reflection of sunlight in midday
points, had made curtains All burlap around those passages. As cautioned under the porch, to
its elevations and breadth, was more exposed to the ravages of wind and the effects nasty
solar reflection in the vast and desolate batey.

From the top of the steps of the portico was recorded from one extreme
to another the boiler house front, the more drain on the right, but
only on the side of the drawers to dry sugar, the barracks of blacks
or the stockade that enclosed its rustic rooms; In short, most of
which comprised the vast population of wit, the fields of cane to
the west, the straw roofs of the houses of pasture, and beyond that
a huge palm, a bend of the river and then altered and primitive jungle,
which was like the dark background this varied table setting.

Cosa noon on December 24, 1830, sprawled in comfortable chairs of cowhide they were the masters
of ingenuity in red cowhide easy chairs, were the masters The Tinaja wit, along with several others,
sheltered from solar reflection, after canvas curtains. Almost all the men, Don Candido Valdez,
pastor of Bankruptcy Axe Captain of the party and the doctor smoking snuff, Dona Rosa, the
wife of the captain before, women's and sister's mayoral ladies paddock and Gamboa, ate some candy
canes land, others, orange guava China and Peru, etc., the products they stay wit. Roamed around
our famous of Havana: Tirso, Aponte, Dolores, along with another black who had come by sea, and
two or three more of the endowment of wit, Creole and that they had better look for domestic service,
making all useful.

In the ladies Gamboa, Carmen and Adela not heated seat, biting a piece of guava or orange and then
undertook long walks, linked hands, from one extreme to another the porch, with obvious signs
of impatience at the delay, in his view, the friendly Alquízar. Adela in particular, every
time he touched the corner of the south, stood a song canvas curtain and cast an anxious glance
across the front master guardarraya until interception on the road from the beach. Finally, shortly
after one o'clock in the afternoon, was heard in the distance sound
of carriage wheels and the sudden departure of several horses; and
Adela, seeing nothing yet, said cheerfully: - There they are!

Do not be fooled this time. A little more than reached the foot of the steps of the portico
ladies Ilincheta in his carriage, which, along with their passengers, horses and riders came
covered with red dust of the earth. Useless would stop and describe point about the various scenes
of the meeting of both families in the midst of the solitude of the Vuelta Abajo. More than
one reason was so that at least some of those present, that mirasen moment as a real event
worthy of note. It happens also that young people, and also Sometimes older people, when they
meet at a field site with the intention to pass only few days in open and friendly society, far from
the places where they have been accustomed to living and have fun, feel strongly attracted,
if friends are and express it more, if relatives are persuaded that
closer ties together, if lovers, ah, love seems eternal the joy of
loving, heavenly.

Women narrowed sharply between the arms. Adela cried with joy when
tightening among his Elizabeth, for whom he had an extraordinary passion.
For it was the most modest and loving women. Arise, O God, plead thine own cause:
remember how the foolish man reproacheth thee daily. Forget not the voice of thine enemies;
the tumult of those that rise up against thee increaseth continually."

Something troubled the Doctor to-night; his usually grave face was tinged with sadness. Presently
he arose and paced with slow measured tread up and down the room.

"I ought to have done it," he said at last. "I ought to have told her mother that he was in
many ways an unsafe companion for Sadie, especially in this matter; he is a very cautious,
guarded, fascinating skeptic--all the more fascinating because he will be careful not to shock
her taste with any boldly-spoken errors. I should have warned them--how came I to shrink so
miserably from my duty? What mattered it that they would be likely to ascribe a wrong motive
to my caution? It was none the less my duty on that account." And the sad look deepened on
his face as he marched slowly back and forth; but he was nearer a solution of his difficulties
than was either of those others for at last he came over to his chair again, and sank before
it on his knees.

Now, let us understand these three people each of them, in their separate ways, were making
mistakes. Sadie had said that she was not going to believe any of the nonsense which Dr. Douglass
talked; she honestly supposed that she was not influenced in the least. And yet she was mistaken;
the poison had entered her soul. As the days passed on, she found herself more frequently caviling
over the shortcomings of professing Christians; more quick to detect their mistakes and failures;
more willing to admit the half-uttered thought that this entire matter might be a smooth-sounding
fable. Sadie was the child of many prayers, and her father's much-used Bible lay on her dressing-table,
speaking for him, now that his tongue was silent in the grave; so she did not quite yield to
the enemy--but she was walking in the way of temptation--and the Christian tongues around her,
which the grave had not silenced, yet remained as mute as though their lips were already sealed;
and so the path in which Sadie walked grew daily broader and more dangerous.

Then there was Dr. Douglass--not by any means the worst man that the world can produce. He
was, or fancied himself to be, a skeptic. Like many a young man, wise in his own conceit, he
had no very distinct idea of what he was skeptical about, nor to what hights of illogical nonsense
his own supposed views, carried out, would lead him; like many another, too, he had studied
rhetoric, and logic, and mathematics, and medicine, thoroughly and well; he would have hesitated
long, and studied hard, and pondered deeply, before he had ventured to dispute an established
point in surgery. And yet, with the inconsistent folly of the age, he had absurdly set his
seal to the falsity of the Bible, after giving it, at most, but a careless reading here and
there, and without having ever once honestly made use of the means by which God has promised
to enlighten the seekers after knowledge. And yet, his eyes being blinded, he did not realize
how absurd and unreasonable, how utterly foolish, was his conduct. He thought himself sincere;
he had no desire to lead Sadie astray from her early education, and, like most skeptical natures,
he quite prided himself upon the care with which he guarded his peculiar views, although I
could never see why that was being any other than miserably selfish or inconsistent; for it
is saying, in effect, one of two things, either: "My belief is sacred to myself alone, and
nobody else shall have the benefit of it, if I can help it;" or else: "I am very much ashamed
of my position as a skeptic, and I shall keep it to myself as much as possible." In ordering furniture, clothes and bottles and bottles of potions, straightened rugs
and mats, which were plentiful in the soil, graduated and headed in light of the paneled window and
coming in the door so not to give in full in the face of sick, and he even cleaned the cold,
clammy sweat that glistened on his forehead, and he arranged covers and pillows, but this, as well
as when working out, without make noise or raising dust or cause the slightest mortification
to the patient. I was glad contemplate that beneficent fairy work. My uncle, choking cough,
awakening some sometimes from their slumber, opened his eyes, his gaze fell upon us hampered and
voracious, and again then closed them to fall back into slumber. When taking advantage of these
joints to give a few sips of broth or "scoop" medicinal "he corresponded" Tomabal between
groans and angry protests stammered.

About noon it cleared a bit and we pondered much how bad it was. Came in Neluco this, and not
by courtesy tried to convince them otherwise. But he urged to carry with patience her work, since
he was not required unless a man of his faith and his belt. To which I replied the patient, with
all the ire he could find in the pile of own ruins:

- Do you still get something of NA paez my patience, condenao? With the mita of what I have loved
you I see mediquín, quacks of demons, to see which side Put them ... Well man! ...

Intervened all inclusive Neluco to calm him down, and calmed down soon, but not the least said
idea of ​​preparing for death. On this point the doctor had been very upset. He said, bid farewell
to Don Sabas was absent from the place, helping the dying of another people whose pastor was
ill. Upon hearing he had sent a self, but as to the people had many sticks on the way to measure
and the snow was thickening by the minute, although Don Sabas would try not to lose one when
he heard what was happening in the house, Were you to know what time
the evening was coming, and if you arrive on time and!

Not to get too close to the giant of the table Castañalera impressed him so sadly, ate with him
at all lazy in the kitchen, served by Tona, while his mother kept the patient. That was not
so tasty food for me and I did not forget other, rather than so recent date, so elated that made
those two diners in the latter, somewhat out of respect for the sadness 'official' of the house,
and more for the pain the reasons for the sadness that I gave, ate little and spoke less.
Less talked about yet they, don Pedro Nolasco, who never said a word,
but, instead, what engulf his so great!

Before we finished eating, we learned from Facia the patient had fallen asleep again and that
"the snow was trapeu so again, that was gustu."

I remembered the absence of Don Sabas and the need to made by my uncle, and I received the
news with much pleasure as felt by the mother to give me Tona.

According ran the afternoon, clutching the storm and the anxieties of the patient, was still struggling
with them eyes closed and unaware, apparently, of what was happening. God knows what we are worried
that these symptoms and was eager to insinuate what Neluco wanted, since it is not anticipated
to hint at, but what good would Overture while we did not hand the Priest? These questions and
subsequent questions, was the dark, a little after four, with a trio of snow on the valley
and snow thick and continuous and was alarmed me much, because supposed to Don Sabas on the way
and thought the dangers that could run. Meanwhile, the kitchen is filled little by little people
came to hear of Don Celso and volunteer for all sorts of chores around the house in those test
hours, and I do not dislike me so well together on the occasion of so much trouble. A Don
Pedro Nolasco was happening the same, and even began to talk with fellow members and Laughing allowed
certain predictions about the disease and almost bit old friend your soul ... precisely at
the moment my uncle out of his stupor and after persistent to tour
the room with dazed eyes, said to distress of breathing, as if you
could fit in the chest and an air bubble to another without having
vacated the same:

- Now ... now is to really leave, my children,
and prepare to travel to every rule.

Charity make me tell the priest that I call for what he knows ... if there is any of packages that
I distinguish badly from here, because I do not know if the little light in the room, or because
it has started to fade and my eyes ... Sabas! ... Sabas! ...

All those present heard and callábamos, and we looked at each other not knowing what to say. How to
tell the priest was not in the house or in town? ... But so what obfuscation absurd it was! What
problem was to entertain the impatience, responding who had come to tell and that was about
to arrive? This was going to answer me the same time I approached his bed with Lita and Mari-Pepa,
made a sea of ​​tears as Facia was leaning against the back wall with his arms folded, head
bent over chest and eyes, dry, saddened and still, stuck in the face of his corpse master, when
he returned to exclaim, but with a verve inconceivable in its miserable state:

- Sabas! Sabas! ...

By this I heard a harsh beating, as the result of Carrejo in the Hall,
and at the same time a voice that would respond to strong calls:

-
There he goes, jinojo!

...

I knew the voice, jumped back to the door, and saw that the lounge was up package that the same
could be a mountain jaral as should be all those moments, a gauge and hombrazo talares Don
Sabas, for he was snowed head and shoulders and everywhere I looked out a relief, however little,
Espido in their long and garments, and go and shake the very attempt, threw in soil dusty
snow falls, as falls from Matos shakes and shakes when the raging gale. I went to meet him and
shake to help wipe ... nothing, because of two detached bativoleos floating everything dripped
on him. This was, in a jiffy, smooth and mondo from head to toe, that is, short jacket and
hair. While it was stripped of those wraps and accessories, he said:

- Ah! because thanks to the gray horse has more guts than Paez, and was able to footman that I carried
him halfway to the legs, if not ... Jinojo! I tell thee that we do not live none of the three,
because I have seen snow as I live, but like this, go, go! ... What happens to poor Don Celso,
man? When I went there I say, not me took fright, because I was afraid I was coming every day.
The worst part was that he dying person, not just unhappy, and it was not to abandon him in
such a trance ... Well Care if you get for not finishing in the afternoon of God ... To all
this, the snow thick and closed roads. Look you what time to put this one in the agony! ... If what
Satan JINCEN the tooth for the souls, is much story! A well that it was not for lack of mine warnings,
but this Celsus, to be as a man of faith, is inherently so ...

All that we said already, and I almost cried, the better the cure to his bedroom door friend,
where he interrupted a call disjointed reasoning as before.

- Sabas! Sabas!

- Here I am, man! "- Replied the priest -. Care is the subject!

... Look, with the rush better Sallu not you have them now ...

- That's it - my uncle grumbled -. For comfort of my ajogos, tíñeme and vociférame, pispajo!

- Do you have to fight, man, do you have to fight! - Don Sabas said to him then that face of those
miserable ruins of his friend and comrade of his life, failed to contain the tears that flowed
in his eyes - or how I will scream! ... Well then would Thus, jinojo! ... but as I came, I
could not come, because of force majeure. And just think you then!

Figúratelo, Celso! ... Go - added suddenly interrupting his speech and passing look around
the room and accented with a movement of his arms, very significant -: here on all but the patient
and me, because what will happen between us, not support one other
witness, who is Lord and Judge of lives and souls.

We leave those who don Sabas sobrábamos and closed the door from inside. I do not know what went
through me then, but I declare that I was very touched and even cried, hiding much like a weakness
unworthy of strong men.

They came the tears shameful "the spread of other more free? Were torn my heart with grief to
see that, my relative in a state so miserable and compassionate?

Am the produce that strange scene he had just witnessed between the priest and the sick, through
whose coarse warp distances left to seek grants and admirable? Might have on them some of each
and every one of these ingredients, but the fact is that I cried, but not as well as women who gathered
with me, as they were entering on tiptoe the room where we were many of the pundits in the kitchen
that had been amassed in Carrejo after the arrival of the priest, transfixed with grief ... and
curiosity.

Facia The light bulb had lit in the bedroom to get out of it, and still kept in hand, lit up a little
darkened those jaws, and so I could glimpse of clogged, materially, huddled figures and oscillating
looked at us with impatience greedy, and even I could have sworn that back in the background,
behind all the mass, but rising one elbow on the head of more Tallud glistened like two lanterns in
a tunnel, big eyes giant green and bulging of the Castañalera.

XXVII

After a while I asked Mari Pepa many things which, in its view, would be necessary there very soon.
I, delegating to her and her daughter had many responsibilities at home delivered them to the
few keys which he kept, and sent to Facia to put on your orders the rest. To send well and soon they
planned, it was necessary to return commentators to the kitchen,
scattered herds here or there, all choked ... and stank, and there
was no way to squirm between them.

They did so to point at my command, and the two women began to raid cupboards, wardrobes and
drawers. Facia guided, and I was like an automaton at three.

While ransacked the bottom drawer of the dresser in my room, opened the door to my uncle Don
Sabas and appeared in the hole. I noticed that out crying and ran to him fearing that already completed
all there, but since I heard coughing halfway to the sick, and this was reassuring. Salióme to
meet the priest, and he said, wiping her eyes with a handkerchief of grass:

- Can not help it, what jinojo! ... more than one is accustomed to contemplate miseries and human
finishers ... Because there are cases and cases, Don Marcelo, and this is one of the peel harder
for the poor priest. Sixty years of living, more than friends, like brothers, and each in
his ministry ... And care if it was his height! ... something rejunde in the bowels ... it seems
to me ... Suddenly he says to the other one: "I go, because I'm leaving ... and never to return:
so you ajústame these accounts that I have to give to God, through you Mesmer how much I owe
and how little and bad that I have paid ... and you stay here, man and alone, until you get
yours, you can not take because no one is old, and you'll see what is jallarte day after day
without longtime friend, who looked and flesh of your flesh and filled the whole place, although
he did not see him ... "Nah, you go and, moreover, namely if getting
one's own, and catch him or catch him Asao, because the flesh is weak,
and Satan not sleeping, and if, for shots or TATS, we find ourselves
not in the other world.

Because it goes well for luggage ... Yes, jinojo! and right as a juso has to raise the soul. At the
human level can not be assumed otherwise, to the preparation he has done, after a life of charity,
that I know by heart ... In short, that it is going, and that we should not sleep to make all
the missing in the trance you see ... You have to viatical immediately, and for that I go to
church now. Note here that is expected God with the pomp that is owed.

They had taken their talares to the kitchen to dry by the fire, and the priest go to pick them
up made people gathered in her the same advice as I am, and then dragged him, Chisco and Pito
least Salces, who ordered me to stay "watching the house, what might happen. " Precautions
idle luxury at that hour (around seven), with a dark as pitch, dropping handfuls of snow,
and with a roaring gale up the mountain, which were scary.

Without worrying much about the poor Marmitón, who was left alone again, lounging, dumb and amazed
at the wooden chair and very leaning to fire, and returned to the apartment of my uncle see
what was going on it after the departure of Don Sabas. It was already known anyone interior, and
even now continue to be transformed by the two tales of the house. In the bedside, the red damask
quilt of the great days, and back on it, the broad and embroidery fold of a sheet of luxury pillows,
with pockets of very large garrisons stiff and escarole, and the
patient himself, with camisole clean, heated just before the brazier
and perfumed with thyme, on the elastic thick coat that harbored the
trunk, along to bed, a carpet mat instead of forever on the dresser,
falling in graceful flags on the sides, another quilt of good house,
and on it, expecting better destination, the ivory crucifix, six silver
candlesticks, a glass of holy water and a sprig bay.

When I arrived, they occupied the two women who appeared to be little devils in your hands,
to replace, helped to Facia, the junk that was always at the bedside, with a square table taken from
my closet, where I used to read and send my correspondence. Ofrecíles my help for that task, but
the disdain with gestecillo Lita very deliberate and two annealed complimentary phrases. While
it took the ailing Facia artifact, tended them on the table another red damask quilt and the
quilt on a very white piece of cloth with lace of many drafts, then moved to the comfortable
at the table the crucifix of ivory, four glass candlesticks and holy water and the sprig of laurel;
then another rug in front of the table, then all strips and arenas that were found to form a
path so long as he could, four beatings on chairs before them in order, a pat over the bed
clothes, a look from afar to the whole so many different things ...
and what was already shipped.

My uncle, meanwhile, gasping and coughing and passing among the gnarled fingers of his right hand
beads and more beads of the rosary, and pray that says through clenched teeth, not take notice
what was happening around him, or answer more than a gesture to the
smaller question vinegary that he did.

Before he died his body was already in another world with the spirit. God was, God was God's only
expected.

I finished fourth, another work was undertaken outside nastier, for which not enough single
women. Mari Pepa scattered on the floor quilts and shawls that had gathered looting and walked
in a mass on the chairs, Lita chose and combined colors and sizes, Salces Pete and I, perched
on tall furniture needed, clavábamos in walls, and as high as we could, studded with spikes ...
up with nails "Trabaderos" and how we could have at hand in the cellar
weep holes that Chisco accumulated stocks of this species, which the
diligent and poring granddaughter of giant Castañalera of us was exquisite
lengthening with his hands, as scattered on the floor.

When walking the mean task bordering on the tolling of a bell, patchy and intermittent, sometimes
remote, now close, as weak cry of agony, sometimes, vibrant and resounding others according to
the whims of wind and stirred encased in the strait and crossroads of valley. It was the first
touch "to manage", the signal was in the church to the neighborhood for the purpose that knew him.
A little while later, the bell stopped and two men with individual arms of candles and tapers who
commanded the priest, ahead. Came emaciated ankles above, but very espelurciados and "ardiéndoles'
noses and ears because, as stated, although it had stopped snowing, the north wind still blowing,
colder than the snow itself. If did not seem bad, quedaríanse there already, it's about being
confident "of Jaller the Lord 'in road, if returned to take the church, there was the rocky
ground with snow layer above had to many ups and downs for him without an emergency. Willingly
assent to appear as sane, and abode of men ... amused and the "visual Pomposú" that would taking
the corridors and stairs of the house with the business that made us sweat. Continuámosla, however,
with renewed energy, but stitch length, ie, thinning the flaps, because could be heard again before
the touch of a sign that had been on the road as we expected, Amen
to that walking on fabric or "hardware" to cover many walls.

To clothe the naked floor traffic, ran Lituca stocking, and planted it itself, fragrant laurel
penquitas abundant in the crevices of the rocks in front. And still had time to fumigate the house with
rosemary and marjoram, burned by her embers of the brazier, leading Salces Pito Chisco and hand
through the rooms, corridors and stairways. Then, candles, candlesticks, candlesticks and lamps,
illuminating even the most obscure and remote; my uncle's room, with six candles and, rechispeando
light, and arm candles brought from the church, burning to the care of two men charged time to
give fate they had; Marmitón framed in the doorway of the kitchen and looking the light cruiser,
not daring to take a step toward him, Mari Pepa coming and going Everywhere, his daughter putting
the finishing touches to the overall picture, without a word and pasmadota Tona, near Don Pedro
Nolasco, Pito and Chisco Salces in the astragalus, each with a candle burning in hand, my uncle,
his eyes half open, leaning against the pillows and prayer without end; Facia, with her best black
dress and attentive to what the patient might need, along at the door of his room, standing motionless and
melancholy, the church bell ringing rhythmically; almost absolute silence in the areas of the
house, and I, stuck like a statue in lounge with views overlooking the room of my uncle and to
cruise the bottom of the passage, watching everything, hearing everything, and prey to emotion,
so complex and strange, not I could explain.

Suddenly, a voice, Tona often leaning out the door to the balcony
of the kitchen shouted from the bottom of the last Carrejo:

- It
vienin!

Cubriéronse head then hurried women, took a candle each of the tending the two men and another
dímosle Don Pedro Nolasco who had moved group, and when I was a prominent
part of him, he soon arrived, all walking and almost stunning giant
rolling, the balcony of the kitchen. "How could I have been such a simpleton?" she asked herself as seated opposite
her cousin at table she had opportunity to watch the handsome face, with its changeful play
of expression, and note the air of pleased attention with which even her Uncle Ralph listened
to his ceaseless flow of words. "I knew he was older than Abbie, and that this was his third
year in college. What could I have expected from Uncle Ralph's son? A pretty dunce he must
think me, blushing and stammering like an awkward country girl. What on earth could Abbie mean
about needing my help for him, and being troubled about him. It is some of her ridiculous fanatical
nonsense, I suppose. I wish she could ever talk or act like anybody else."

"I don't know that such is the case, however," Ralph was saying, when Ester returned from this
rehearsal of her own thoughts. "I can simply guess at it, which is as near an approach to an
exertion as a fellow ought to be obliged to make in this weather. John, you may fill my glass
if you please. Father, this is even better wine than your cellar usually affords, and that
is saying a great deal. Sis, has Foster made a temperance man of you entirely; I see you are
devoted to ice water?"

"Oh, certainly," Mrs. Ried answered for her, in the half contemptuous tone she was wont to
assume on such occasions. "I warn you, Ralph, to get all the enjoyment you can out of the present,
for Abbie intends to keep you with her entirely after she has a home of her own--out of the
reach of temptation."

Ester glanced hurriedly and anxiously toward her cousin. How did this pet scheme of hers become
known to Mrs. Ried, and how could Abbie possibly retain her habitual self-control under this
sarcastic ridicule, which was so apparent in her mother's voice?

The pink on her cheek did deepen perceptibly, but she answered with the most perfect good humor:
"Ralph, don't be frightened, please. I shall let you out once in a long while if you are very
good."

Ralph bent loving eyes on the young, sweet face, and made prompt reply: "I don't know that
I shall care for even that reprieve, since you're to be jailer." To drag the life as a burden ofrentosa, that grief and pain were minándola and consumed by
where no one would notice it, his hair graying untimely and could not identify, to replace worn
forces in the work and musings day, the rest of the night, the tranquility of sleep they do not need
to beggar Hunger kills calling door to door and wandering from mountain to mountain, with a bag
to paluco back and a hand in what matter? Desconociéralo his daughter, was entered orphan of
a parent being honored, and this only gave great comfort and strength to carry the cross as a
redemption charge of their offenses, unforgivable in the afterlife without a hard penance in
it. When, with its sights set on this end, hesitated a little, because After all, was earth
fragile and miserable, and suspicious of their brightness and sailing to stumbling and fall,
came under Don Sabas, and beyond, to the gate of the confessional, in the deep of the church, to
break the first dawn of day, she, after kissing the dust regarle soil and with her tears, declaring
their sorrows and infirmities, and berating him and exhorting them with wisdom and gentleness
of a loving father to a very unhappy child, was always the lost strength to continue suppression
of Calvary with the load of his cross ... So things were when I had come to Tablanca.

Ask why the great distress that the harrowed so then it had been searched
other times, advice and assistance of Don Sabas.

He replied that they were very different cases each other, that did not depend on his resignation
or his courage in such anguish that the setting, and I was the only living thing known of it, called
to understand it before anyone else. Asombréme, cried inconsolably, beat his head in his hands,
bit fists clenched convulsively, turned to kneel on the floor to ask forgiveness embraced to
my knees, raised my amazement, I got to work to sit down again, and the plot, for all the saints
of the heavenly court, to declare immediately that I had everything they plead.

Rehízose something to force to engage in it, and thus began from very deep sighs and sobs poorly
suppressed, the second part of his strange confession:

- While things
this suerti, one afternoon, and the night abocar ... (Three days more
by token, Nah, you come to Tablanca), I took the jars, and took them
all afternoon the sunset and the lame to this and I took from then
I had pa EYU forces, and we by water.



Abbie's voice was very low and sweet, and reached only her cousin's ear. "Ester, 'the silver
and the gold are His,' and I have asked Him this very morning to help me in every little item
to be careful of His trust. Now do you think--" But Ester had turned away in a vexed uncomfortable
state of mind, and walked quite to the other end of the store, leaving Abbie to complete her
purchases as she might see fit. She leaned against the door, tapping her fingers in a very
softly, but very nervous manner against the glass. How queer it was that in the smallest matters
she and Abbie could not agree? How was it possible that the same set of rules could govern
them both? And the old ever-recurring question came up to be thought over afresh. Clearly they
were unlike--utterly unlike. 

For reasons that are easy to deduce, the ladies certainly did not follow the example of the master
home. Young people do not feel any inclination to separate from the rest of the night, communicate
with one word, with a look even if some of the many that boiled in heads. So, almost instinctively,
after dinner returned to the border gate and started walking up and down, in two groups: Isabel
with her aunt and Meneses and The Rose and Leonardo in the rear. The first round asked the
latter to the former, in a low tone, telling the older sister

- What is the girl?

This was coincidentally the first verse of a song very popular then,
and Rosa, who was living and mischievous, answered it with the second
verse that gave its name:

- Measles.

- What is cure?, Leonardo asked
again with the third verse.

- With coscorron; concluded Rosa unable
to restrain his laughter.

- What Vds. laugh, asked Isabel very attentive
to what was happening behind him.

- Do not tell, Gamboa, Rosa said.

Let your curiosity.

She is not on our side.

It seemed that Elizabeth intended to monopolize for the remainder
of the evening the conversation and society Diego Meneses.

Hence the apparent motive of Rosa with her peak, as revealed his
last words.

The same suspicion and with the same copy of reasons could shelter Isabel respect her younger sister,
because from the beginning and company seized the attention of Leonardo. But none of the youth
were satisfied with himself or the other. This was true, of Luckily they got tired of walking more
quickly than could reasonably be expected, only instead of sitting as perhaps leaned on the railing,
falling, too casually, which wanted a secret: Isabel beside Leonardo. Rosa to de Meneses, and
Juana was group. He loved his nieces to this mother's love, like one who had grown from little
girls; wanted their establishment, and her matchmaking being kind, of course it did not take poor
elimination through which ones could have a moment of intimate communication with their beaus.

There
was the house around the most profound peace, having shot the breeze to get up at sunset.

Oh," he added, as he glanced it through, "rather ghostly, I must confess, or would be if one
were inclined that way; but I imagined your nerves were stronger. Did the pronoun startle you?"

"How?"

"Why I thought perhaps you considered yourself committed to all this solemnity before your
time, or willy-nilly, as the children say. What a comical idea to hang one's self up in a store
in this fashion. I must have one of these. Are you going to keep yours?" And as he spoke he
reached forward and possessed himself of one of the cards. "Rather odd things to be found in
our possession, wouldn't they be? Abbie now would be just one of this sort."

That cold shiver trembled again through Ester's frame as she listened. Clearly he did not reckon
her one of "that sort." He had known her but one day, and yet he seemed positive that she stood
on an equal footing with himself. Oh why was it? How did he know? Was her manner then utterly
unlike that of a Christian, so much so that this young man saw it already, or was it that glass
of wine from which she had sipped last evening?--and at this moment she would have given much
to be back where she thought herself two weeks ago, on the wine question; but she stood silent
and let him talk on, not once attempting to define her position--partly because there had crept
into her mind this fearful doubt, unaccompanied by the prayer:

  "If I've never loved before,
  Help me to begin to-day"--

and partly, oh poor Ester, because she was utterly unused to confessing her Savior; and though
not exactly ashamed of him, at least she would have indignantly denied the charge, yet it was
much less confusing to keep silence, and let others think as they would--this had been her
rule, she followed it now, and Ralph continued:

"Queer world this? 

As such, and taking into account the age and cheerful character of Cecilia, it is not surprising
that after passing concern, was delivered back into the arms of the pleasures that provided dance.
However, in the whirlwind of dance and the incense of adulation astounded that men wanted,
the sometimes troubled thinking of the risk ran her friend's brother Nemesia, for having defended
the insults of a madman or a murderer.

Therefore, as grateful woman, from that point began to feel a kind of José Dolores of sympathy
that he had never felt, and debt discount did not hesitate to express their fears. Rios can
not wait to hear it, replicating, perhaps to reassure that the Dionysus Gamboa, Jaruco or whatever,
was a miserable slave, very big mouth to parársele forward out of the dance, because the saying that
dog that barks does not bite much. Observole Cecilia coward as a slave and was more frightening
because treacherously attack, no face face. José Dolores replied to this, that, indeed, had
to be prevented and eyes wide, not give him the back, but otherwise he had already armed with
a knife he had borrowed from a friend, and had to be the man lynx kill him the first trip.

After ambigú and other dance between twelve and one o'clock, the dance
ended and everyone left for home.

Password Clara Uribe arm with her husband, Cecilia and Nemesia with her brother, went together
nice over settlements that had on that side of the road towards the gate in the wall, called
Earth be more immediate. Approaching the first corner of Broad Street and Cienfuegos, Cecilia
felt the shadow of a man, beating the front, turned right there. Suspected since then who could
be and tried to call attention to your partner, next opposite, indicating the cafe named Athens,
lonely, dark, near the statue Carlos III, into the ride. But the man did not pass by which she
hoped, be planted in the corner and said high: - Shameless, chincha blood, come here, if you're
handsome.

It was necessary to José Dolores had blood of this insect to be dropping
a similar challenge, made before the lady of his thoughts.

So he made to get rid their partners, which, holding each by an arm, would have won the try
if not come to their aid Uribe said the girls:

- Let give you a wet.

It was. José Dolores drew his knife, took his hat in his left hand to use as coating of the bull
before the matador, and followed the steps without getting too close otherwise.

Cecilia, Nemesia and password Clara, holding hands and Uribe, all trembling and anxiety is to
imagine, stood waiting near the corner of the result a fight that was bound to be bloody.
A little more heard the voice of José Argentina Dolores said: - Here, and the snoring of black that
said - here.

He began without the horrible struggle.

The total lack of street lighting, along with the darkness of a moonless night, prevented see
clearly the movements of combatants, despite the proximity to that were the viewer group. Assuming
you had the courage serene Dionisio Jose Dolores, had no much less agile and skillful in handling
the knife. This was plain soon because after a few sprains and take off his hat, first heard
a strange noise as a new fabric that is torn by power, and followed the rough of a heavy body
give ground. Nemesia Cecilia and gave a piercing scream and closed
their eyes.

Who of two had fallen? Moment of terrible anxiety!

While still mourning the fallen silently, the other step approach often seemed to the road.
In seconds, not minutes, left the thick darkness that surrounded him, much denser in the eyes
of those who waited and the shock could not see clearly. Came laughing, light as a deer, sheathing
his knife and put his hat torn to shreds. It was José Dolores Pimienta. Cecilia was the first
to meet him, not knowing what he did, by an impulse of generous and
sensitive soul, threw her arms around his neck, asking to Evening
- Have you been injured?

- Not a scratch! answered him, the more
proud as he felt his head over his heart of the woman he loved without
hope of correspondence.

In her hearing him, cried with pure joy that the girl who finds her wrist when deemed irrevocably
lost.

PART THREE

     CHAPTER I
      
      You dress a jasmine bush knows And the perfume you give it in the
gardens Fever to Lieo insane temper.

         

A. BELLO

Leonardo Gamboa Separose family after lunch in the meadow or pasture of Hoyo Colorado, and the
pleasant company of Diego Meneses took for between Vereda Nueva and San Antonio de los Banos
Alquízar around, heading southwest of your starting point.

A few miles were found in what is called Flatland out there, and just plain long, whose center
is occupied by that part of the population last name. His background is a calcareous very
porous and pure, covered with a layer of red earth, or color of brick,
in places quite thick and loose, accusing the iron oxide that is loaded
and a prodigious fertility.

With some interruptions level expands Callajabos west to the foot of the mountains of the
Vuelta Abajo and eastward to the limits of Columbus, and its generally narrow latitude.

Of course, in the higher portions of the table, there are natural sources or Nor rain often, but
it's so hearty the night dew that wets the floor and refreshes vegetation. Unknown in the country
no irrigation system, in this weather phenomenon must be attributed to growing the freshness
and the emerald green dress that plants in all seasons. In contrast, the uprooting of trees,
the general culture the table, particularly that part which our two travelers were touring had has
scared off the birds, and barely saw a group of Jewish another flight
heavy, penetrating cry, a couple of timid tojosas, a fleeting and
small Tomeguin Warbler immediate hiding in the bushes.

The more they went from Hoyo Colorado, more coffee were on either side of way, as these were the only
rural estates of some importance in the western portion the table, at least until 1840. We
speak now of the famous garden of Cuba, limited between the jurisdictions of Guanajay, Guira de
Melena, San Marcos, Alquízar, Ceiba del Agua and San Antonio de los Baños. Then there were not supported
farms for agricultural exploitation, in the strict sense of the word,
but real gardens for the recreation of their gourmet owners, while
the price remained high coffee.

Against the legal system of surveying observed in Cuba since ab initio, were divided these beautiful
farms in regular figures, whichever is square, and bounded with hedges all dwarf lemon trees,
with bushes and more commonly dry stone walls or fences exquisite and artistically constructed.
Cubríanse these creepers or bonuses, especially snowdrop, which opened on Easter, Christmas,
gave cheerful aspect to the countryside with its snow-white flowers,
in contrast to the strong green of the trees nearby, while with its
exquisite scent perfumed the air momentous for miles and miles.

His flamboyant and comfortable homes did not fall into the wide streets or roads that separated
from If the different properties. Looking rather bleak detention and which provided the interior
as they grew more lush then the orange of the Golden Globes, the lemon indigenous and exotic the
handle and the sleeve of India, breadfruit, broad-leaf plum trees of various species, the
copudo acidic tamarind pods, soursop fruit and sweet heart-shaped, the brave palm, well, notable
among the large plant family as the trunk straight, cylindrical,
smooth and thickness as the shaft of a Doric column, and the beautiful
fence that is topped pads perennially.

A flower of the road itself erected the entrance portal, best, triumphal arch, under whose shadow,
as by Caudine Forks, had to go to catch the broad avenue, lined with palms and orange, leading
to a secluded manor house, hidden beyond the thick trees. Even after moving well in, not always
fully discovered the village, or came to him right, because often occurred Avenue divided into
two branches, describing two half circles, one entrance, one exit, which limited the trees on
one side or bramble bushes, and opposite the flower gardens, made at a time in the light of
surprised traveler. Following any of these half circles, which gave insurance the home of the
owners and their immediate dependencies first, then the home, usually exempt from the mill, in
the center of a square or batey like, around the which were the awnings or coffee dryers, warehouses
or barns, stables, pigeon, poultry house and the village consists
of thatched huts of the slaves.

Leonardo Gamboa and his friend, the horses something smothered, covered and each other's vermilion
powder and subtle level ground, they saw the boundaries of the plantation La Luz, belonging
Don Thomas Ilincheta, about half a league from the village of Alquízar, after four pm on December
22, 1830. On the right of travelers, under a blue sky and without clouds, then put the glorious
sun of the tropics, whose scorching rays launched bundles of light through the branches of
trees, tending increasingly long shadow of the palms on the green,
studded with gayadas flowers, lit the time impalpable earth metal
atom that hung in the quiet environment.

Echoed in the distance with the sole of the horses the bottom porous and hollow earth flat,
so that, long before the riders touch the portal of the property, was already in the iron fence,
ready to open, the black porter, who had just emerged from a kind of large booth and plain tile
masonry, to the left.

Certainly recognized and those with escorrozos was so typical of
the people of his race and status saying

- Eye!

Eye! Child Leonardite sumerce Already vinyl? Ah!

Oh, and the child himself Dieguito asina.

- How is the family, congo?

Leonardo asked.

- Toos Bueno, GRASI Gave. Right now the girls in Dona Juanita. Viniar of Protero. Milagro not encountered
them children. If a little jar susmercés entoavía the reach more bale home.

And after talking with Leonardo said: - Ah! What if the girl will Legrá Isabelita! And girl Rosita!
(Talking to Meneses). I say No!

The two young men smiled and continued the transition from their horses in the middle of the
magnificent mall, hoping in secret, by a strange coincidence of feeling, which stretches some
over the term of his way.

Is that at times brought before the ladies of their love, Leonardo was afraid to receive him hers,
which is not used as a tender friend and lover, but as hard stern judge, for his past foibles
and fancies. To be honest, I felt something it was more like shame that happy. Diego, meanwhile,
next to perform the most ardent desire and intimacy of his chest, the back to see Rose in Paradise
Alquízar, after a year's absence, wanted to see if slowing the desired
time, calm down rather the tumult of his blood and could greet with
the composure of respectful gentleman.

But for now, or the meeting of this whim was given to our friends do. Because bypassing the avenue they
had, they could see the sisters penetrating in the most intricate of the garden where the roses
of Alexandria, Cape jasmine and carnations, the most beautiful competitors boast that Turkey and
Persia, if not were right to wrap its branches, without a doubt that enveloped their aromatic
fumes.

Also young, by the footsteps of the horses, became aware of the presence of travelers, recognizing,
especially at first to set foot ashore, leaving the saddle at will, and was Leonardo Gamboa.
Rosa, candida younger sister, made an exclamation involuntary joy, Elizabeth experienced the
opposite feeling. He remembered his farewell of Havana was not pleasant and cordial, and believed
that prior to entry into the chest of pleasure that Leonardo used to receive, needed at least
a satisfactory explanation for his of the past.

Neither Leonardo nor Diego were in clear reading ability in the face
of her friends passing in their minds when it came time to say hello,
depending on how cold and stiff Cuban customs calling, that is, without
significant handshake.

Was well marked, however, the change that occurred in the face of
the two sisters.

The Elizabeth serious aspect became pale, the Rose took the color of the flower of her name and
brief while, they neither they knew what to do or say. Touched after the most advised of the
women notice the embarrassing position of all, and to get out from the step, came one of the
characteristics of age flirtation and sex.

Isabel had in hand a rose Alexandria, opened the same evening, and the promised Meneses said:

-
Is not this your favorite flower?

Asomáronsele the colors of the graceful face, and became more colorful
than before the Rose, who already wanted to hide his own shame, and
amend the apparent snub made Gamboa removed a carnation that had caught
her hair and gave him stammering: - "This is not flower who prefers
the friend Leonardo?

This bit was enough to break the spell, except that by that afternoon and evening was devoted to Isabel
Giving, and meet Meneses, but did not see the point of reconciliation with Leonardo. Among So
together the four were to meet Joanna and Mr. Ilincheta coming to greet the newcomers.

Disappeared by then the light of day, and the breeze of the night, more to come laden with the perfume
of flowers and pleasant fumes emitted by the field that time, began to be felt. The ladies, especially,
had to appeal to the usual warm, the silk shawl, thrown carelessly over his shoulders. But at
times moving into the room rang the melancholy tolling of the bell is in the surrounding coffee
plantations and La Luz, masters and slaves calling for prayer and meditation. Dona on hearing Juana,
his nieces, the young men and THOMAS Ilincheta, these with hats in hand, and the servants of
the immediate family service with his arms crossed, all standing,
that lady began by saying: - Holy Mother!; to the bystanders answered
in chorus: Conceived without sin .-- The Angel of the Lord (continued
Mrs.) announced to Mary that the Son God the Father incarnate in her
womb, for redemption of the world.

Ave Maria! Mary admitted saying see here the servant of the Lord, unto me according to your
word Ave Maria! The Son of God became man and dwelt among us. Ave Maria!

Given the good nights, the first daughters and servants behind them, kissed the hand of Dona
Joan and Don Thomas, and received the usual answer God make you a saint or a saint.
Follow a maid told Elizabeth that the Contramayoral waiting at the
other side of porch. She asked guests to leave. His father, talking
to them, explained the reason in his absence by saying: - It is my
steward, cashier and bookkeeper, and believe that first is the obligation
of devotion.

"Well, as an instance, it seemed to me very queer indeed to hear her and other young ladies
speaking in your teachers' prayer-meeting. I never heard of such a thing, at least not among
cultivated people."

"And you thought it improper?"

"Almost--yes, quite--perhaps. At least I should never do it."

"Were you at Mrs. Burton's on the evening in which our society met?"

This, to Ester's surprise, was her companion's next very-wide-of-the-mark question. She opened
her eyes inquiringly; then concluding that he was absent-minded, or else had no reply to make,
and was weary of the subject, answered simply and briefly in the affirmative.

"I was detained that night. Were there many out?"

"Quite a full society Abbie said. The rooms were almost crowded."

"Pleasant?"

"Oh very. I hardly wished to go as they were strangers to me; but I was very happily disappointed,
and enjoyed the evening exceedingly."

"Were there reports?"

"Very full ones, and Mrs. Burton was particularly interesting. She had forgotten her notes,
but gave her reports from memory very beautifully."

"Ah, I am sorry for that. It must have destroyed the pleasure of the evening for you."

"I don't understand, Mr. Foster."

"Why you remarked that you considered it improper for ladies to take part in such matters:
and of course what is an impropriety you can not have enjoyed."

"Oh that is a very different matter. It was not a prayer-meeting."

"I beg pardon. I did not understand. It is only at prayer-meetings that it is improper for
ladies to speak. May I ask why?"

Ester was growing vexed. "Mr. Foster," she said sharply, "you know that it is quite another
thing. There are gentlemen enough present, or ought to be, to do the talking in a prayer-meeting."

"There is generally a large proportion of gentlemen at the society. I presume there were those
present capable of giving Mrs. Burton's report."

"Well I consider a society a very different thing from a gathering in a church."

"Ah, then it's the church that is at fault. If that is the case, I should propose holding prayer
meetings in private parlors. Would that obviate your difficulty?"

"No," said Ester sharply, "not if there were gentlemen present. It is their business to conduct
a religious meeting."

"Then, after all, it is religion that is at the foundation of this trouble. Pray, Miss Ester,
was Mrs. Burton's report irreligious?"

"Mr. Foster," said Ester, with flushing cheeks, and in a whirl of vexation, "don't you understand
me?"

"I think I do, Miss Ester. The question is, do you understand yourself? Let me state the case.
You are decidedly not a woman's rights lady. I am decidedly not a woman's rights gentleman--that
is, in the general acceptation of that term. You would think, for instance, that Abbie was
out of her sphere in the pulpit or pleading a case at the bar. So should I. In fact, there
are many public places in which you and I, for what we consider good and sufficient reasons,
would not like to see her. But, on the other hand, we both enjoy Mrs. Burton's reports, either
verbal or written, as she may choose. We, in company with many other ladies and gentlemen,
listen respectfully; we both greatly enjoy hearing Miss Ames sing; we both consider it perfectly
proper that she should so entertain us at our social gatherings. At our literary society we
have both enjoyed to the utmost Miss Hanley's exquisite recitation from 'Kathrina.' I am sure
not a thought of impropriety occurred to either of us. We both enjoyed the familiar talk on
the subject for the evening, after the society proper had adjourned. So the question resolves
itself into this: It seems that it is pleasant and proper for fifty or more of us to hear Mrs.
Burton's report in Mrs. Burton's parlor--to hear ladies sing--to hear ladies recite in their
own parlors, or in those of their friends--to converse familiarly on any sensible topic; but
the moment the very same company are gathered in our chapel, and Mrs. Burton says, 'Pray for
my class,' and Miss Ames says, 'I love Jesus,' and Miss Hanley says, 'The Lord is the strength
of my heart, and my portion forever,' it becomes improper. Will you pardon my obtuseness and
explain to me the wherefore?"

But Ester was not in a mood to explain, if indeed she had aught to say, and she only answered
with great decision and emphasis: "I have never been accustomed to it."

"No! I think you told me that you were unaccustomed to hearing poetical recitations from young
ladies. Does that condemn them?"

To which question Ester made no sort of answer, but sat looking confused, ashamed and annoyed
all in one. Her companion roused himself from his half reclining attitude on the sofa, and
gave her the benefit of a very searching look; then he came to an erect posture and spoke with
entire change of tone. All things considered, damn jembras need to make it here, where so many existing
ones looks like a school. But music and came up over my head! And dance land and dance, grip
and the gentry. You see that gun tonight, Mr. Fermin.

And Dupont went to the city in his carriage, who stirs up the road with the noise of their bells.
He returned late at night, a summer night, warm, without the slightest
hiciese breeze shook the atmosphere.

The earth gave off a burning mist, the sky blue dye diluted in white, the stars seemed clouded by
the fog caliginosa. In the silence of the night sounded the creaking of the strains to expand its
crust cracked by heat.

The cicada screaming furious grooves, scorched earth, the frog was snoring in the distance,
as if we disclose lack of freshness of the pond.

Dupont's companions, in shirt sleeves, lined up under the arches of the innumerable bottles
brought from Jerez.

The women, dressed lightly with only a calico skirt, showing her bare arms below the handkerchief
across his chest, took charge of the baskets of provisions, admiring them with praise for the
pompous gentleman. The foreman praised the quality of meats and olives, which served to excite
the thirst.

- Menu Jumer prepares us sir! - Said laughing like a patriarch.

The great dinner in the middle of the esplanade, which most attracted
the admiration of the people was wine.

Ate standing men and women, and having a hand-full glass, advanced
to a table occupied by the gentleman, the master and his daughter,
who gave birth to two lamps.

The red flames, smoky tongue that rose in the stillness of the night
without the slightest tremor, transparency illuminated golden wine.

But what was it? ... And again all to savor after admiring its beautiful color, and opened his
eyes wide with amazement grotesque rummaging through the words as if they could not express all
the reverence that they instilled the portentous liquid.

- Eztoo and the tears of Jezu own - said one devoutly flicking tongue.

- No - replied others - is the mezmízima Mare milk and gave ...

And
the gentleman laughed, enjoying his surprise.

It was wine from the "Dupont Brothers' wine venerable and expensive that only drank mislores
back in London. Each drop was worth a quarter. Don Pablo liked him as a treasure, and was likely
to be indignant to learn of the devastation who had made his stunned relatives.

But Louis did not regret his generosity.

Glad you crazy miserable with the flock rich wine. He was a Roman patrician pleasure, intoxicated
customers and slaves with a drink of emperors.

- Drink, my children - said to take the advantage .-- paternal tone, which you never see in
another. Many gentlemen of the Horse I envy.

Do you know what they are worth all those bottles? A capital: it is more expensive than champagne,
each bottle costs do not remember how hard.

And the miserable people threw on wine, and drank and drank greedily,
as if they entered the mouth was the fortune.

In the Master table, the bottles were served after a long stay in tanks filled with ice. The
wine passed through the mouth leaving her numb with paralysis grata freshness.

- We're going to get drunk - the foreman said sententiously .-- This is without feeling strained.
Is soda in the mouth and fire in the gut.

But I kept filling the glass in between bites, savoring the cold nectar
and envying the rich who could afford the pleasure of God daily.

Maria de la Luz drank so much like his father. Just emptied his glass, rushed the gentleman to
fill.

- Do not throw more, Luis - pleaded .-- Look I'm going to get drunk. This drink is a traitor.

-
Silly, if you're like water! If you ajumeres though, this happens soon! ...

When dinner ended, the guitars sounded and people formed a circle,
sitting on the floor to the chairs occupied by the musicians and the
young gentleman with his people.

Everyone was drunk but they were drinking. BASC! Erizábase skin of sweat, the breasts are dilated,
as if they did not find air. Wine and more wine! For heat there was no remedy more successful:
Andalusia was the real soda.

Clapping about, and bumping other empty bottles, as if they were toothpicks,
jalearon Seville's famous Maria de la Luz and Master.

She danced in the middle of the circle in front Luis, with flushed cheeks and a luster in the
eyes.

Had never seen her dance so furiously and with such grace.

Her bare arms of pearl-pale, elevábanse around the head, as mother of pearl handles voluptuous roundness.
Calico skirt between the fru-fru, which marked the highlight of their lovely legs, left see
below its border small feet, footwear carefully, like a lady.

-
Ay! Not pueo more! - Said suddenly drowned out by the dance.

And he fell breathless on a chair, feeling that with the excitement of dance, beginning shooting
all around it, the square, people and even the great tower of Marchamalo.

-
That's er heat - the father said gravely.

- A bit of soda and you
will - added Luis.

We had a full cup of this liquid gold, crowned with bubbles, which marred the crystal with its
freshness.

And Ladybug drank eagerly, with a raging thirst, wanting to renew the feeling of freshness in
your mouth as if he had been fire burning in the stomach. From time to when he protested.

- Because I am going to get drunk, Luis. That I think I am.

- And what - exclaimed the Master .-- I am also drunk, and your father,
and all are.

That is what the party. Another drink. Olé, my girl, brave! Follow the fun!

Dancing in the middle of the circle some girls, with clumsy peasant, facing the tenants no less rustic.

-
It is not worth ná - cried the gentleman .-- Out, out! Let's see, Master Eagle - continued,
addressing the toilet manor .-- A dance in style. A polka, a waltz, whatever. Let to dance as
thin people caught.

The girls, perplexed by the wine, he caught one another and fell into the arms of young tenants.
Everyone started to turn, to the sound of the guitar. The foreman and acolytes of Don Luis, accompanied
by empty bottles crashing rhythm or beat the ground with their staffs, laughing like children in this
musical ability.

Maria de la Luz she was driven with the gentleman, who grabbed her hand, holding the same time by
the waist. The girl refused to dance. Turning, when his head was swing and everything revolved around
her eyes!

... But at last she left, giving a your partner.

Luis was sweating, exhausted by the inertia of the girl. Weight What
a girl!

Pressing this limp body, his chest felt the contact of elastic bumps. Mariquita left dropped his
head on his shoulder, as if unwilling to do, overcome by dizziness. Only once Luis stood to
watch, eyes shining in a distant spark of rebellion and protest.

-
Let go, Rafa: This is not right.

Dupont laughed.

- So Raphael ... Oh how funny and how is the girl! If I'm Luis! ...

The girl folded her head again, as if he did not understand the words
of the master.

He felt increasingly overwhelmed by the wine and movement. With eyes closed and thinking spinning,
as an idler, believed to be suspended in a vacuum, in a murky pit, no other support than those
arms man. If let go, fall and fall without ever touching background: and instinctively grabbed
her bra.

Luis was no less embarrassed than their partners. Breathing stifled by the weight of the girl.
Trembled with cool, soft touch of her arms, with the scent of healthy
beauty, which seemed jet arise voluptuous neckline of her chest.

The breath of his lips goose skin neck, spreading a shiver through his body ... When overwhelmed
by fatigue, Mariquita returned to his seat, the girl was wobbling, pale, with eyes closed.
Sigh, we had a hand to his forehead, as if you ache.

Meanwhile, the couples danced on the floor with a mad uproar, colliding with each other, intentionally
pushing with encounters that almost overthrew the audience, making remove the chairs.

Two young men started insulting him, pulling each arm of the same
girl.

Wine his eyes gleamed with fire murder, and eventually go to the
home of wineries in search of the shears, short and heavy machetes
killed at once.

The gentleman blocked their way.

What was it to kill himself by dancing with a girl, when many were
waiting for a partner?

Shut up and play. And he forced them to join hands to drinking together in the same cup.

The music stopped. All looked anxiously toward the side of the esplanade where there were the fray.

-
Follow the fun - Dupont ordered as a tyrant kind .-- Here nothing
has happened.

Music rang again, resumed dancing couples, and the gentleman turned to run. The Mariquita chair was empty.
He looked around and saw the girl in the whole square.

Mr. Fermin was engrossed watching the hands of Pacorro the Eagle,
with admiration guitarist.

Nobody had seen in his retreat to Maria de la Luz.

Dupont entered the house of the wineries, walking softly, pushing the door with a soft Cat without
knowing why.

Recorded rooms foreman anyone.

Thought he had found the bedroom door closed Mariquita, but it gave the first impulse. The bed
was empty and the whole room in order, as if nobody had entered. Just alone in the kitchen.
Groping crossed the vast room that served as a dormitory for workers. Not a soul! Then stuck
his head in the department of wineries.

Diffuse sky light, streaming through the windows, projected spots on the floor in dim light. Dupont,
in this silence, he thought he heard the sound of breathing, the faint stir of someone lying
on the ground.

Advanced.

His feet stumbled on a burlap and a body on them. Kneeling to see better, guessed by touch, rather
than the eyes, Maria de la Luz, who had refuge there. No doubt the repugnant hide in your room,
in such a shameful state.

At the touch of the hands of Luis, seemed to awaken the flesh steeped in the lethargy of intoxication.
Adorable body stirred, his eyes sparkled for a moment, struggling
to stay open, and muttered something burning mouth with the ear of
the master.

He thought he heard:

- Rafael ... Rafa ...

But he said no more.

Bare arms crossed over the neck of Luis.

Maria de la Luz fell and fell into the black hole of unconsciousness, and in falling he clutched
desperately to this support, it concentrated all his will, leaving the rest of callous neglect
your body.

VIII

In early January, the workers' strike had spread across the field Jerez. The farmhands of the estates
made common cause with the tenants. Owners fields like in the winter months were not important
agricultural work circumvented without impatience the conflict.

- I surrender - saying .-- The winter is hard and very hungry.

In the vineyards, the care of the strains were made by foremen and laborers closest the owner,
braving the anger of the strikers, who are accused of treason, threatening with collective revenge.

Rich people, despite their arrogance, revealed some fear.

As was customary in her had been speaking to the Madrid newspaper strike of Jerez, with dark blackening
color, swelling, like a national calamity.

Rulers was censured by his abandonment, but with such outbursts of urgency, not seemed as though
every rich man was besieged in his home, defending himself against a crowd shot ravenous and ferocious.
The government, as usual, had sent armed forces to cut cries of these
beggars of authority and came to Jerez new civil guard forces, two
infantry companies and a squad line joining the tank riders sire.

Decent people, as called Louis Dupont, smiling with bliss to see on the streets many red pants.
In his ears sounded like the best of music entrainment of sabers
on the sidewalk, and into their casinos are seeing widening the soul
around tables uniforms of the officers.

Those who weeks earlier stunned the government with their lamentations,
as if they were to die beheaded by those mobs who remained in the
countryside, with folded arms, not daring to Sign in Jerez, arrogant
and boastful now showed themselves to the cruelty.

Laughed the gloomy expression of the strikers, their eyes, which had the hunger and unhealthy
squint despair.

In addition, the authorities believed time to be imposed by fear, and the civil guard pinned
to those contained in the forefront of workers' associations.

Entered daily people in jail.

- Pass and forty who are in the shadows - saying the best informed in the gatherings.

- When there are one or two hundred, this will be like a mill pond.

At midnight, the Lords, leaving the casino, women were huddled in
shabby shawls or skirt at the top, they tended hand.

- Lord, we do
not eat .... Lord, that we kill the swarm ... I have three churumbeles,
and my Mary, with that of the juelga, does not bring bread home.

The gentlemen laughed, quickening the pace. To be given them put Salvatierra and other preachers. And
looked almost loving sympathy to the soldiers who passed through
the street.

- Cursed you be you, gentlemen!

"- The miserable females roared in despair Want .-- God that one
day we send the probes ...

Montenegro Fermín sadly watched the course
of this silent struggle that would end bound with a bit noisy, but
from a distance, avoiding dealing with the rebels, since no Jerez
was his teacher Salvatierra.

Also silent on the desktop, when in his presence demonstrating Don
Pablo's Friends cruel desires of repression that terrorizes workers.

Since he had returned from Manchester, his father saw him once he
does not recommend the prudence.

Should keep quiet, at last, they ate the bread of Dupont, and was not a noble join with the
desperate, but they complained with much reason.

In addition, for Mr. Fermin all human aspirations are summed up in
Don Fernando Salvatierra, and it was absent.

Madrid kept him under constant vigilance not to return to Andalusia. And the foreman Marchamalo,
missing his Don Fernando, considered the strike devoid of interest, and the strikers as an army
without a leader and without a flag, a horde necessarily decimated
and had to be sacrificed for the rich.

Fermín obeyed his father, staying in a prudent reserve.

Left unanswered peer teasing desktop, knowing his friendship with Salvatierra, to flatter the
master taunted the rebels.

Avoid presenting in the Plaza Nueva, where they met in groups of
strikers in the city, still, silent, with looks of hatred following
the gentlemen who intentionally went there with his head held high
and an expression of challenge in the eye.

Montenegro stopped thinking about the strike, attracted to other matters of interest.

One day, when you leave your desk for lunch at the guest house where
he was found the overseer of Matanzuela.

Rafael seemed to wait sitting in the corner of the square, headed occupied wineries Dupont. Fermin
had not seen in a long time. I was somewhat disfigured, with gaunt
features and sunken eyes in a dark fence.

Her dress was dirty field dust carried it carelessly, as if it forgot that arrogance that made
him be considered the most elegant and nice for the riders rustic.

-
But you're sick, Rafael?

What's wrong? - Montenegro said.

- Penalties - laconically said the overseer.

- Last Sunday did not see you in Marchamalo, and the other either. Are you sulking with my sister?
...

- I have to talk to you, but many long, long mu! - Rafael said.

There in the square could not be, in the guest house either, because what the overseer wanted
say was to be kept secret.

- Okay - Fermin said jokingly, to guess that this was punishment for
love .-- But as I have to eat, sad creature! we will go home and there
disgorge Mountaineer all those penilla drown you, while I do it for
life.

Mountaineer at the grocery store, going against the fourth largest in the hotel, heard guitar
strumming, clapping and screaming women.

- The Master Dupont - the waiter told them - that is with some friends and a wonderful jembra
has been brought from Seville.

Now the fun begins ... Fabric is cut at least until tomorrow!

The two friends searched the room farthest to the din of the party
is not interrupted conversation.

Montenegro ordered his food, and
the servant put the table in that tiny room, smelling of wine, and
therefore diminished, like a cabin. Shortly after he returned with
a large pan full of reeds. It was a gift of Don Luis.

- The Master
- said the waiter - was aware that they are here, and I sent it. In
addition, can you take what you like, everything is paid.

Fermín
announced entrusted to Don Luis would happen to him so he finishes
his meal, and closing the cabin door was left alone with Rafael.

-
Come on, man - said, pointing to the dishes: - please thereof.

-
I do not like - said Rafael.

- Do not you eat? Oops ... air will
pass as all lovers ... But it does drink drink?

Rafael made a gesture
as superfluous missing the question. And without looking up the table,
began to rush furiously rods before him.

- Fermin - he suddenly looked
at his friend with red eyes .-- I'm crazy ... crazy lost.

- I can
see - Montenegro replied coolly, while eating.

- Fermin paece a demon
blows my ear the most terrible things. If your father was my godfather,
and if you, you were not a few days ago that would kill your sister,
Mary LU. I swear by it by my best mate, the only inheritance from
my father.

He opened with a crash of a razor handle springs old,
fiercely kissing smooth sheet, colored drawings by rust-red.

- Man,
it will be something less - Montenegro said staring at his friend.

He
had dropped his fork, and a cloud passed over his face red. But this
hostile gesture lasted only an instant.

- Bah! - He said - yes you
are crazy, and more so is the case then you.

Rafael began to mourn.
Finally, his eyes could give way to tears that rushed to them, and
sliding down her cheeks fell in wine.

- Is true, Fermin, I'm crazy.
Loose bravado y. .. na: I am a weakling. See how I be, a lad beat
me. What I have to kill a ladybug? I wish I had black guts to that.
Then I'd kill you, and toos at rest.

The distant strumming of the
guitar and vocals that cut its rate, cheering the heels of a dancer,
seemed to accompany the fall of the tall boy's tears.

- But, let's
see - Fermin said impatiently .-- What is that? Speech, and ceases
to mourn, you look like a blessed in the Holy Burial Procession. What's
wrong with Ladybug? ...

- Who does not love me! - Cried the desperate
accent overseer .-- That you do not listen to me! That Quie have broken
and not me! ...

Montenegro smiled. And that was it? Contention of
boyfriends; whim of girl who gets angry to encourage the monotony
of a long engagement! Happen and bad wind. He knew what hearsay. He
expressed his skepticism with young hands, the English, as he said,
enemy of the perfect love affair that lasted years and were one of
the traditions of the land. He had known he was not dating anyone
at Jerez. He was content to take what they could, good, from time
to time to satisfy their desires.

- That it always appreciates the
body - continued .-- But so fine relations with sighs, penalties and
celillos, never! I need time for other things.

Y Fermín, mocking
tone, trying to console his friend. That would slump. Caprichos of
women who get angry sulking and pretending to want them more! The
day least expected, would see Maria de la Luz go to him, saying that
it was all a joke to test their love, and she loved him more than
before.

But the strapping young man shook his head negatively.

-
No, not like me. This is over and I'm going to die.

Montenegro was
telling how his love had ended. She called one night to talk on the
fence, and with a voice and gesture, whose memory still shuddered
at the poor lad, he announced it was all over between them. Christ
and what news to receive, out of the blue!

Rafael clung to the bars
to avoid falling. Then there was everything from pleas, threats, tears;
but she remained inflexible, with a smile that was afraid and refused
to continue affairs. Ah, women! ...

- Yes, my son - said Fermin .--
A drag. Although this is my sister, I do exception. So I took them
what they need and shun the deal ... But what excuse did you Mariquita?
...

- That he does not like me, who has suddenly apagao that I had.

What a household was this into which death had so swiftly and silently entered! The very rooms
in which the quiet form lay sleeping, all decked in festive beauty in honor of the bridal morning;
but oh! there was to come no bridal.

Ester shrank back in awful terror from the petition that she would go to Abbie.

"I can not--I can not!" she repeated again and again. "It will kill her; and oh! it would kill
me to tell her."

Mrs. Ried was even more hopeless a dependence than Ester; and Mr. Ried cried out in the very
agony of despair: "What shall we do? Is there nobody to help us?"

Then Ralph came forward, grave almost to sternness, but very calm. Changed
the daily spectacle of sea and land, changing the temperature and the course of stars, the people,
huddled in winter coats, white dress in a week and looked to the sky the new star of the opposite
hemisphere ... and your cabin always well, like a corner of a planet apart, insensitive to
variations of this world.

In the morning, awakening in him, he became involved in an atmosphere, green and smooth, it same
as if he had slept in the back of an enchanted lake. The sun drew on the white the roof and
sheets of gold restless network, whose meshes are constantly succeeded: was a reflection of
invisible water. In the stillness of the ports coming through the windows the screech of the cranes,
the shouts of the porters, talks of occupying boats around the liner. At sea was the cool silence of
the vast murmuring what filled his bedroom. A wind of infinite purity, which may come across
the planet, gliding thousands of miles across deserts salty without touching a single corruption slid
down the throat of a wine Ferragut gas intoxication. Its hard ribbing dilator was shot pulses
in this life, while his blue eyes twinkled with the bright horizon.

At home, the first thing he saw upon waking was a Catalan building, rich and monstrous, like the palaces
that draw the hypnotized in his dreams: an amalgam of Persian flowers, Gothic columns, tree
trunks with quadrupeds, reptiles and snails from foliage cement. The pavement was sending their
vents the stench of a sewer solidified by the scarcity of water, the dust scattered balconies rugs shock,
the palace-chimera swallowed with a novel rich insolence of the whole sky and the sun corresponding Ferragut.

One
night he surprised his relatives by letting them know that returning
to the sea.

Tape nodded a painful silence to this resolution, as if he had guessed long before. It was
something inevitable and fatal should accept. The manufacturers Blanes stuttered in astonishment.
Back his life of adventure when the great lords of the party dealing with him! ... Perhaps
might make him the first council elections.

Ferragut laughed at the simplicity of his cousin. Wanted to send a boat again, but his own, without
having to suffer the impositions of the shipowners. He could afford this luxury. It would
be like a huge yacht, ready to do due to his taste or convenience, and providing the same
time high profits. Maybe your child to become a manager of shipping company, the over the years
become the first ship in a huge fleet.

He knew all the ports in the world, all roads of traffic, and would know to guess the locations
devoid of vessels, which are paid higher rates.

Until now had been a brave employee and blind. I was about to start his life operator of the sea.

Two
months later he wrote from England saying he had bought the Fingal, steam-mail Three thousand
tons, which made the twice weekly service between London and port
Scotland.

Ulysses enthused by the cheapness of its acquisition. The property was Fingal a Scottish captain,
who, notwithstanding his long illness, would not ever give up command
died on board his ship.

The heirs, landsmen, tired from a long waiting, eager to get rid of it at any price.

When the new owner entered the aft lounge, surrounded by cabins - only habitable place in this
cargo ship - the memories of the deceased came to his step. In the plans for the entrepuertas were
painted the heroes of the Iliad Scotland: the bard Ossian and his harp; Malvina round of the
arms and loose tresses of gold, the mustachioed warriors, with helmets
fins and protruding biceps, which were given knives in their shields,
waking the echoes of green lakes.

A soft, deep armchair opened its arms to a stove. They had spent the last years, the owner of
the vessel, heart sick with swollen legs, running from seat on a course that was repeated every
week, through fog, through winter waves that ripped chunks of ice crept to the icebergs. Near the
stove there was a piano, and on its cover a pile of yellowed by time scores: The sleepwalker
Lucia Tosti romances, Neapolitan songs, easy and graceful melodies which spread the old strings
of the instrument with the fragile and crystalline timbre of a music box. The poor sailor
legs of stone tended his sick heart into the sea of ​​light. This music raised up among the misty
skies Sorrento hills, covered with orange and lemon trees, the coast
of Sicily, scented by burning plant.

Ferragut manned the ship with friendly people. His second was a pilot who had begun his career
on fishing boats. It was the same people of the grandparents of Ulysses, and he remembered the
Dotor with respect and admiration.

He had met his current captain when he was little and was about to fish with his uncle. At the time,
Toni was a sailor on a lute and cabotage, superiority of years that he had been authorized to tutear
Ulysses.

To be now under his orders, sought to amend the treatment, but the
captain would not consent.

Toni and were perhaps distant relatives. All of those people were united Navy for long centuries
of isolated existence and common hazards. The crew, from the first drivers to the latest ratings,
was equally familiar in his respect. Some were of the same land of the master, others had long
sailed under his orders.

Ulises owner known as a host of concerns that had not previously suspected.

It He verified the agonizing transformation of the artist who becomes an entrepreneur, the writer
who doubles as editor, the engineer dedicated to the fantasy of the inventions becomes a factory
owner. His romantic love for the sea and its adventures was now accompanied worries about the price
and consumption of coal, on the rabid crowd that drove down rates, and the search for new ports
to load early and rewarding.

The Fingal, which had been renamed by its new owner by the name of Mare Nostrum, in memory of
his uncle, was a questionable purchase in spite of its low price.

Ulysses was excited as a navigator to see his high, sharp bow ready
to face the worst seas fast ship its thinness, its amply powerful
machines for cargo vapor, all conditions that had made him serve email
for several years.

Consuming too devoted to fuel profit by transporting goods. The captain, for his navigation,
now thought only the food of the boilers. He always seemed Mare nostrum going too fast.

- Media Machine! - Shouted through the tube to the first mechanic.

But in spite of this precaution and others, fuel consumption was enormous when you the tonnage
of a trip. The vessel consumed all the profits. His speed was negligible compared with that of an
ocean liner, but it was absurd in relation to the vapors Merchant large and small machine quarter
were seeking to charge any price all points.

Slave to the superiority of their ship and ongoing struggle with her, strove Ferragut keep browsing
without major losses. All waters of the world were devoted to Mare Nostrum to transport more rare.
Thanks to him flew the Spanish flag in ports that had not ever seen.

He travels the lonely seas of Syria and Asia Minor, to shores where the novelty of a vessel with
fire was running and crowding to the people of rural hamlets.

Landings made Phoenician and Greek ports blinded by the sand, which retained only a few huts at
the bottom of a heap of ruins. Some marble columns stood still as palm trunks lopped. Fearful breakers
anchored beside the west coast of Africa under the sun I did burn the roof, to get rubber, ostrich
feathers and elephant tusks brought by rowers in long canoes black. Always out of a river town
of crocodiles and hippos, on whose banks rose cones factory straw
for their roofs.

When there were these trips outside the regular routes, Mare Nostrum was heading to America,
resigning to fight cheapness with British and Scandinavians, who are the carriers of the ocean.
Tonnage and draft allowed him to overcome the great rivers of North America, reaching until the
remote interior cities that are smoke rows of chimneys of its factories the edge of a freshwater
lake become port.

Sailed up the Parana to Rosario and red Colastiné for Argentine wheat upload, anchored in the amber
waters of Uruguay, face to Paysandu and Fray Ventos, getting naked for salted meat to Europe
and to the West Indies. In the Pacific went up the Guayas through a equatorial vegetation in search
of Guayaquil cacao. His bow cut the infinite blade Amazon, the giant trunks washed away by
floods in the virgin forest to anchor in front or in front of Pará
to Manaus, taking snuff and coffee shipments.

Even took German war supplies for the revolutionaries of a small republic.

These trips, which once enthusiastic Ferragut had final now as a disappointment. After expenses
paid and have lived in raging economy, there was hardly anything to the shipowner. Were becoming
more numerous cargo ships and freight cheaper.

Ulysses with its elegant Mare nostrum, could not fight the northern
masters, drunk and taciturn, who accepted at any price to fill their
ships sordid undertaking a march of turtles through the oceans.

-
I can not - sadly said to his mate -.

I am going to ruin my son. If I buy Mare nostrum, what I sell.

In one of his fruitless expeditions, when he felt more disappointment, unexpected news fared.
Had just arrived in Tenerife with corn and bales of alfalfa Argentina
dry.

Toni returned to board after the ship's papers legalized.

- The war, che! - Shouted in Valencian, the language of their privacy.

Ulysses, who was walking across the bridge, received the news with
indifference.

"War? ... What ?...» But this war was to learn that Germany and Austria had broken hostilities
against France and Russia, and England had to intervene on behalf of Belgium, the captain
launched to calculate the political consequences of this conflagration. Saw nothing.

Toni, less disinterested, talked about the future fate of the ship
... After the misery!

The freight tonne thirteen shillings to one hemisphere to another were now to be a memory embarrassing.
No charge would apply as from port to port as one who asks for alms.

Now it was given importance, finding requested by the agents and traders disdainful. Mare Nostrum
was going to claim as if it were gold.

Such predictions, which refused to accept Ferragut, began to be fulfilled soon. Short supply
ships in the ocean routes. Some took refuge in neutral ports closer, fearing the enemy cruisers.
Most were mobilized by their governments for material transport huge demands of modern warfare.
Privateers German Using guile, prey increased with the panic of the
merchant marine.

The freight prices jumped thirteen shillings a ton to fifty, then sixty, and to the few days to one
hundred. He could not go higher, according to Captain Ferragut.

- You still go up - said the second with a cruel joy -. We'll see a ton to one hundred fifty
to two hundred ... We are going to become rich!

And Toni used the plural when speaking of future wealth, but it occurs for a moment ask his captain
a few cents more on the forty-five dollars he received a month. The Ferragut fortune to ship and regarded
it as theirs. He esteemed himself fortunate if not short of snuff and could send your full
salary to the wife and children, living there in the Navy.

His ambition was to all sailors modest: to buy a piece of land and be farmer in his old age. Basque
riders dreaming meadows and apple trees, a house in a summit, and many cows. He imagined a vineyard
on the coast, a white house with pergola whose shade would smoke his pipe, and the whole family,
children and grandchildren, extending the harvest passes over the
hurdles.

He joined family Ferragut admiration, equal to that of former squire for his champion, to that of
an old sergeant and an officer of genius. The books that filled the cabin captain made him
remember his anguish when examined in Cartagena to take title pilot. Serious gentlemen of the court
had been pale and babbling like a child to logarithms and trigonometric formulas. He ask him about
case studies and skill of skipper, accustomed to all the dangers of the sea, he would respond with
the aplomb of a sage.

In difficult moments - days of storms, low winding, treacherous coast neighborhood - Ferragut only decided
to rest when Toni is replaced on the bridge. With him there was no fear of inadvertently enter
the wave that sweeps through the roof and off the machines, or that the invisible obstacle Stone
nailed his tusk in the belly of the ship. Still standing the helmsman the direction indicated,
motionless and silent, as if asleep standing up, but at the moment brief appropriate dropped the word
of command.

Meat was lean, with the thinness of the Mediterranean annealed bronze. The salt wind over the years had
tanned his face with deep lines furrowing. Coloration Whimsical black was the bottom of these
cracks, while the part exposed to the sun seemed washed by light,
with lighter shades.

The short beard and stretched by hard grooves and lomas of the skin.

Besides, he had hair in his ears, hair in the nostrils, broad and upturned, ready to tremble at
times of anger or admiration ... But this ugliness decreased in the light of their small eyes,
with pupils between green and oily, eyes watching sweetly, with canine
expression of resignation, when the captain made fun of their beliefs.

Toni
was a "man of ideas." Ferragut knew him only four or five, but hard,
crystallized, unshakable as molluscs, attached to the rock, eventually
becoming an outgrowth stone. Had acquired in twenty-five years of
coasting the Mediterranean, reading all newspapers lyrical radicalism
met him at the ports. In addition, the final of his travels was Marseille,
and one of its streets a red room adorned with columns symbolic, where
he was to sailors of all races and all languages, understood fraternally
by signs and words mysterious rituals. 

When entering a port in South
America after a long absence, admired Rapid advances in the shantytowns:
huge docks built in one year, endless streets not found in the previous
trip, leafy parks and elegant on ancient lakes dried.

- It's natural
- stated categorically -. For some are Republic.

Upon entering Spanish
ports, the less disappointment in the vessel, a discussion with government
employees, the lack of space for a good anchorage, made him smile
embittered. "Unhappy country! ... Everything was work of the altar
and the throne. " Now she stood in the presence of them both, yet what an unmeasurable ocean
rolled between them! The faded, tearful eyes were raised to her face after a moment, and a
quivering voice spoke her thoughts aloud, rather than addressed any body. "He gave his life
for poor old useless me, and it was such a beautiful life, and was needed, oh so much; but
what am I saying, God let it be him instead of me, who wanted so to go--and after trusting
him all along, am I, at my time of life, going to murmur at him now? He came to see me only
yesterday"--this in a more natural tone of voice, addressed to Ester--"he told me good-by.
He said he was going a long journey with his wife; and now, may the dear Savior help the poor
darling, for he has gone his long journey without her."

Ester waited to hear not another word. The heavy sense of pain because of Abbie, which she
had carried about with her through all that weary day, had reached its height with that last
sentence: "He has gone his long journey without her."

She fled from the room, up the stairs, to the quiet little chamber, which had been given to
her for her hours of retirement, locked and bolted the door, and commenced pacing up and down
the room in agony of soul.

It was not all because of Abbie that this pain knocked so steadily at her heart, at least not
all out of sympathy with her bitter sorrow. There was a fearful tumult raging in her own soul;
her last stronghold had been shattered. Of late she had come to think that Abbie's Christian
life was but a sweet reflection of Mr. Foster's strong, true soul; that she leaned not on Christ,
but on the arm of flesh. She had told herself very confidently that if she had such a friend
as he had been to Abbie, she should be like her. In her hours of rebellion she had almost angrily
reminded herself that it was not strange that Abbie's life could be so free from blame; she
had some one to turn to in her needs. It was a very easy matter for Abbie to slip lightly over
the petty trials of her life, so long as she was surrounded and shielded by that strong, true
love. But now, ah now, the arm of flesh had faltered, the strong staff had broken, and broken,
too, only a moment, as it were, before it was to have been hers in name as well as in spirit.
Naturally, Ester had expected that the young creature, so suddenly shorn of her best and dearest,
would falter and faint, and utterly fail. And when, looking on, she saw the triumph of the
Christian's faith, rising even over death, sustained by no human arm, and yet wonderfully,
triumphantly sustained, even while she bent for the last time over that which was to have been
her earthly all--looking and wondering, there suddenly fell away from her the stupor of years,
and Ester saw with wide, open eyes, and thoroughly awakened soul, that there was a something
in this Christian religion that Abbie had and she had not.

And thus it was that she paced her room in that strange agony that was worse than grief, and
more sharp than despair. No use now to try to lull her conscience back to quiet sleep again;
that time was past, it was thoroughly and sharply awake; the same All-wise hand which had tenderly
freed one soul from its bonds of clay and called it home, had as tenderly and as wisely, with
the same stroke, cut the cords that bound this other soul to earth, loosed the scales from
her long-closed eyes, broke the sleep that had well-nigh lulled her to ruin; and now heart
and brain and conscience were thoroughly and forever awake.

When at last, from sheer exhaustion, she ceased her excited pacing up and down the room and
sank into a chair, her heart was not more stilled. At such times, women appear less graceful aerial and lovable, and
men more timid dare all, and feeling more are given more eloquence.

- Isabel, Leonardo said, I am surprised your conduct with me.

- Rate
it, "said Isabel, smiling.

- Not for me to qualify, for the simple
reason that I am the victim.

- That more?

For it was what was missing.

- Are you surprised?

How does it fit, if not, the friendly bounce of Havana (my part, that is), with your silence
and indifference soon ...?

- "No reason to justify the change?

- No reason to justify it.

At least I still have not been able to penetrate.

- Refresh you
memory of events.

- Nothing, Isabel, I fail, I know why.

- Really?

-
Really.

- So I've been a fool, a fool, I have seen visions.

- As
much as it does not, Isabel.

Do not you think that you could misinterpret an innocent act mine
or someone else to me?

- If it is not interpretations, Don Leonardo,
this is what I saw with my eyes.

- Let us know what was my lady Elizabeth
with her eyes.

- I saw what you saw, rather, what happened to you
at the stapes of chitin.

- And that was reason enough for the love
you lost me and were about to forget?

- It was, and large, to anger
any woman of shame, much as the blinding passion.

- I see clear,
Isabel, who have all been a mistake on your part, and that inadvertently
has been unfair to me.

- Explain you, "Isabel said with apparent
anxiety.

- I'll tell you briefly what happened, Leonardo continued,
turning red, because fact was thought to lie.

As I said the last goodbye, naturally stretched a foot on the sidewalk.

One of the two mulatto passing bumped into me, and believing him put together a trip, full of
anger gave me a shove.

You know what are those insolent sluts when creating offense.

- Yes, Isabel said thoughtfully.

After a little while he added: But what gave me reason to I say the
word indecent that I still buzzing in the ears?

- You cry, Isabel,
and then the call Adela, though they may be called Nicole or Rosario
was no doubt which increased his anger.

- If called by the name of
Adela, rather, if I let my exclamation that name, was because I figured
she was his sister, you also take it by the picture of Adela, I could
not, or I should imagine that another woman had with you like jokes.

-
Takes!

The story is that there was no joke on your part.

- Then she knows you and you abused by ... jealousy.

- I know of
view, I confess, I had noticed his resemblance to my sister Adela,
but have given no occasion ever jealous of me.

- Perhaps he loves
you in secret.

- It would be nothing special, except that in my life
I said "you black eyes."

- I would feel an injustice done to you,
Leonardo.

Appearances, however, condemn him.

- No, Elizabeth, no. I am innocent. If you deceive at this time, if you do not tell the whole
truth if you paint a passion that he felt, therefore if you had given just cause of tort, would
be the worst of men ...

- Okay, fold the paper, convinced Isabel interrupted.

- Pelillos to sea?, Leonardo asked with loving accent.

- Pelillos to sea, "she answered with heavenly smile. It would not have said to me if I saw sentenced
to doubt the word of the man who was a friend and gentleman.

- Well, said Leonardo more lively.

Do not you think we should seal this sweet reconciliation ...?

Saying this left hand secretly run by the railing to catch Elizabeth,
leaning on it.

But it, avoiding the time, avoided the danger. Sobered and walked
by her aunt, who said it was high time to pick up.

Leonardo clock marked eleven at night.

Time had flown. Diego Meneses, despite knowing that the time the paint bald He took advantage
of what Rosa was enough to make a formal declaration of love, having
find the theme or pretext of the conversation in the gift of carnations
that this girl did Leonardo in the garden.

Dove Candida Alquízar orchard!

She had not heard before an "I love you, Rosa 'intention and the
fire.

She, who was attracted to the young as the needle to the magnet, as sometimes the snake could
not divert attraction break the enchantment, found no hand gesture,
word or scheme to deny that he had succumbed and also loved his tempting
from the first season they spent together in the coffee Light.

CHAPTER II

And in the beautiful coffee plantations everything is fresh and smells
kissed its white flowers by tropical breezes.

J. PADRÍÑEZ

As a bride of Cupid from the previous day, Rosa Ilincheta, fearing shame of face his accomplice
in the clear light of day, delayed his departure from his best dresser. But Isabel had obligations
to complete and appeared very early in the south porch of the house the umbrella in her right
hand, a basket hit off the left arm through the hoop, and all wrap the silk embroidered shawl
enhancement.

     
      Then the sun peeked from a
      corner of the house, illuminating
      a part of the garden and planning the shadow of it and trees, long
distance, on the spacious farm batey.

         There was plenty of dew in the morning.

Was soaked grass, dust off roads and russet leaves of the plants and the flowers of flowers studded
with tiny seed pearls, as many prisms that decomposed the light of the sun almo, upon receipt
of sideways.

Isabel threw a questioning look across the country spread out before
her, and ventured out the porch, because from there began to see a
rose from Alexandria who had just opened the sweet solar heat in the
southeast of the garden table.

So she cut without punctured or splashing, and when she was adorned with splendid braid her hair
again mechanically the eyes towards the house and thought that one of his guests watched from
the shutter of the bedroom window at the end of the porch, where in fact the two were staying.
Was Diego Meneses, who have not enjoyed peaceful sleep, left the bed since the dawn and breathing
the pure atmosphere of the countryside, at the time that Isabel appeared
in the midst of gayadas flowers.

Thereby the troubled this incident, which for a short time it was uncertain if he returned
back from or go ahead, because the act of adorning the hair and look for the house, Magu to
innocent and accidental, could be interpreted in different ways, and she fled both frivolous
and the foolish vanity. But I had to go and went with firm step.

On the south side, a stone fence separating the field that included square the varied farm village.
In the center stood the coffee mill between the two pairs of awnings,
which can contain a time, drying, half of the harvest.

Further, closing the large space on the left, you could see the thick dark rim of the pot with
gallows and pulley for the extraction of water, the loft after the poultry birds and some pens,
in background at right, the bell, or rather the wooden pillar whose arm covered with an awning,
hung the bell, and the granaries and warehouses, stables, cow barn
and other outbuildings.

The huts of the slaves included a village regular size.

Was devoid of vegetation or the magnificent batey we have been describing, for many trees, and
certainly the most corpulent copudos and all that farm, he adorned and shaded. Including several
avocados, red mamey, mango and star apple trees, especially the first, which the continent conifers,
climbing the sky seemed the height of its branches. Those steeper and flakes were chosen by the
Guinea fowl (Numidians Meneagris Cuvier), knowing the Hurani of these rare birds to their haunts
at night. The band, which might well consist of hundreds, from appearing before the sun began
to stir and repeat the cry, or his peculiar cackle, it seems that
Easter and the other says answers, Easter, until all wake up and prepare
to descend from their very high and natural perches.

Neither the young nor the chickens still gave signs of life: those for not being early risers,
they by the darkness and seclusion of his home.

Otherwise, you could see plenty of movement around the sugar mill. Of the slaves of both sexes,
who picked up their hoes and spades the dried leaves and stalks of the soil who with the same instruments
touched the grass on the roads, who raised both hands open piles of trash and put it in baskets
they lead others to the head, who arm to draw water from deep well and poured into a large stone
basin at the foot of curb for others, in a rustic buckets made of the petiole of the palm,
distribute deposits in the various departments of the estate. At the edge of the well water was
bathing horses in twos or threes, the coachman Leocadio. Inside the mill penetrating voice
sounded bold, who sat at the end of the vertical wheel axle, that
turning the floor was peeling coffee, constantly goad the cavalry
served motor.

Four slaves, meanwhile, tended the grain, not yet dry, while others led the milled or debarked
to fan whose blades made a huge noise and awakened the echoes wherever the sound wave was elastic
obstacle in its path. And once all clean straw or dust, was taken to the store so that there was chosen
and classified by other slaves.

None of those who passed the scope of Isabel left to give it the good morning and ask his blessing,
bending the knee in submission and respect. Peter, the Contramayoral, without the ominous badge
of his office, going from one place to another, encouraging his colleagues to work and gave
her hand in many cases, to give added weight to the word with the work. The rise or the appearance
of Elizabeth in the awnings was the signal for the black mill Argentina raise your voice and
sharp with the song, so rude and simple, perhaps improvised last night, which begins with this
kind of verse: The girl is sin, and ended with this one, repeated in chorus by all the other
blacks: Probe cravo cries. Between the first lyrics and the chorus or foot inserting the guide,
though not native, born on the plantation, congo phrases in pure, also answered the chorus with
the bound: Probe cravo cries.

Was useless to ask harmony, even listening to a song, or any civilized or savage; but seemed
Asaz monotone sensitive ears, it is also true that the tone and the lyrics were full in melancholy
feeling. Isabel felt it, but pretended not to hear or understand speech, and proceeded to the foot
of the trees, which already swarmed and ran in all directions the aborotosas Guinea fowl. Some,
the most surly, wanted to see her take flight exploding in the nasal scream, shrill and high,
which often give the alarm to her companions. More familiar with the voracity of these birds
were enough to reassure and contain a few grains Isabel corn took from the basket, leading to the
arm and took care to throw at a given point near each other. The band mass fell on the little
food, deposed surveillance, forgot the danger, and only occupied
egullir grains or pebbles.

This circumstances took one of the slaves, a sign of his lady, to drag on the ground and pillar
two, without being thrown out of seeing others. Very tasty meat is these birds, as tasty as the partridge,
the reason why Isabel is proposed to give your guests with a couple of them, grilled, lunch.

In view of the food, now thrown in handfuls, came rushing chicks. These, less haggard than guineas,
to which they feared, and more capable of sympathy to them, fluttered at first about the young, then
fell on his head, shoulders and arm basket, running to snatch the corn from the hands and even
bite in the mouth. Such so tender and innocent shows sometimes, even repeated a day with another,
Always tender, and never, but in extraordinary cases, agreed that kill off of sight. For this
and other similar acts that was reflected the influence by Isabel on how things came to him,
not least their slaves but believed that God had endowed with a kind of charm or secret power
which could not refer or repel.

Diego Meneses was still scrutinizing the footsteps of his friend,
and, well, by dint of civilized man was unwilling to concede anything
supernatural in it, did believe, like others, it was an extraordinary
woman.

From his observation post was faithful account of what he saw or heard, Leonardo, who was still
in bed resting and enjoying the fine linens full of lace and scented with rose petals of Alexandria,
all of the work Elizabeth hands industrious. Meneses said Gamboa, among other things:

- It's a lot of women that, friend.

- Did not I tell you?, Answered this content.

- It's worth a Peru. There are many like her out there.

- Would you change? The hair changes hair Rosa. Come on.

- Do not laugh, gossip, Diego answered seriously. Isabel recognize in rare items worthy commendable,
does not mean that I like better than other women, or that is in love with her. But the truth
is that more and more convinced me that you do not deserve it.

- What! Do you imagine that she is better than me?

Leonardo replied, wounded by the observation of his friend.

You're wrong, man, medium to medium.

Keep in mind that Elizabeth is the daughter of a former government employee, former employee, a
ruined coffee, a pauper, in short, while my parents have pastures, coffee-mill, are wealthy landowners
and make different role in Havana. Are you?

- I, only I did not refer to any of that when I said I do not deserve this girl. Bluntly, Leonardo,
you do not want it.

- Why do you suppose I do not love?

- What!

Do not I have eyes? Since we arrived I have been watching your actions and words, and nothing
to persuade me that you love to Isabel.

- Male, Diego! I'll tell you frankly what happened to me, "Gamboa said after a brief period
of silence.

Do not feel sorry for Elizabeth that blind and burning passion you feel, for example ... by Rosa.

-
Di best Meneses promptly stopped him, that you feel by Ceci ...

- Shut up! Leonardo said in alarm, and hereby incorporated in the bed. Not lie in the rope house
of the hanged. You can hear: the walls have ears. That name is banned here.

- Never mind a name. It is very common and do not believe that Isabel has ever heard.

- Probably not, but the thread is pulled the ball, the more it has no hair Isabel dumb.

- And now that is beside the point, how you've made about the scene in front of the house of
Gamez at the time of the departure of Isabel?

- I think I have suspected something and to me that her cousins ​​have told or written about
it a story.

It is shown that Elizabeth apparently very suspicious and felt me.

- No doubt that the premiums have aroused his jealousy. The thing was, however, very clear to
alarm to leave Isabel and suspect the same thing you and I know.

The nerve of that girl!

- What?

The blinded the demon of jealousy, engaging in the eyes of Elizabeth and premiums. You can not
imagine how much it was my shame.

- I think.

I, in your place, hiding his face under seven U.S. land.

But where does Isabel took could have been your sister Adela?

-
You will find there, Diego.

However, if I recall, they seem much at first glance.

- I had already made the same observation. Too bad your father had to do with such like!

- Who knows? He likes the cinnamon as much as me. There would be nothing unusual, walking to
mouth, as usual when young, had taken a tumble ... What is C. .. is to him drool. I know.

- Then can not be your father.

- What was to be! Not a chance. Nonsense!

- Then there is out there it is.

- Gossip of the people, Diego. "They understand they would love C. .. if you ligasen these kinship
with her?

- Try to ignore it, because you say, it was all a result of a stumble.

Perhaps the plot for you, knowing of kinship that mediates between Vds. two. Where there's smoke
...!

- In this case the river does not carry water, or stone. Just because he happens to resemble
lot C. .. and Adela becomes infatuated people and talk ... What I can tell you is that he has made
me spend more scares that I have hair on his head. At least I hope I hand him to mouth. Almost,
and hardly I double cause concern that the musician Pepper. The only thing I reassured by this
part, is that it neglects both the old and despises the Cubans.
- Be wary, however. Thing known is that the son of cat mouse game,
and where jumps mother's daughter jumps. But back to our story, the
result is that these masses you are not the best foot with Isabel.

-
No. Like I said, she suspects something, or someone has biased against
me. Isabel is well, bitch to explain frankly, I am a point less, so
in this way we going until God wants, or she lay down their pride
and reconcile with me.

- That same line of yours, noted Meneses,
I confirmed in the belief that you do not love Elizabeth.

- O I have
not been able to explain, or you do not understand me, Diego. Not
having points of comparison under any circumstances between the two
women, I can not love one another as I love. The one of there always
brings me mad, made me make more of a crazy and I still will make
many more. However, not love, or love and love never on this earth
... It is all passion and fire is my temptress, a devil in the shape
of women, the Venus of the mule ... Who is strong enough to refuse?
Who can approach him without getting burned? Who to see no more do
not feel the blood boil in their veins? Who hears: I love you, and
you are not disrupts the brain as if to drink wine? None of these
feelings is easy to experiment by Isabel.

Then followed a somewhat eager, somewhat sorrowful talk, and then a moment of silence fell
between them, which Abbie broke by a sudden question:

"Ester, isn't this Dr. Douglass gaining some influence over Sadie? Have I imagined it, or does
she speak of him frequently in her letters, in a way that gives me an idea that his influence
is not for good?"

"I'm afraid it is very true; his influence over her seems to be great, and it certainly is
not for good. The man is an infidel, I think. At least he is very far indeed from being a Christian.
Do you know I read a verse in my Bible this morning which, when I think of my past influence
over Sadie, reminds me bitterly of myself. It was like this: 'While men slept his enemy came
and sowed tares--.' If I had not been asleep I might have won Sadie for the Savior before this
enemy came."

"Well," Abbie answered gently, not in the least contradicting this sad statement, but yet speaking
hopefully, "you will try to undo all this now."

"Oh, Abbie, I don't know. I am so weak--like a child just beginning to take little steps alone,
instead of being the strong disciple that I might have been. I distrust myself. I am afraid."

"I'm not afraid for you," Abbie said, speaking very earnestly. "Because, in the first place
you are unlike the little child, in that you must never even try to take one step alone. And
besides, there are more verses in the Bible than that one. See here, let me show you mine."

And Abbie produced her little pocket Bible, and pointed with her finger while Ester read; "When
I am weak, then am I strong." Then turning the leaves rapidly, as one familiar with the strongholds
of that tower of safety, she pointed again, and Ester read: "What time I am afraid, I will
trust in thee."

Almost five o'clock of a sultry October day, one of those days which come to us sometimes during
that golden month, like a regretful turning back of the departing summer. A day which, coming
to people who have much hard, pressing work, and who are wearied and almost stifled with the
summer's heat, makes them thoroughly uncomfortable, not to say cross. Almost five o'clock,
and in the great dining-room of the Rieds Sadie was rushing nervously back and forth, very
much in the same manner that Ester was doing on that first evening of our acquaintance, only
there was not so much method in her rushing. The curtains were raised as high as the tapes
would take them, and the slant rays of the yellow sun were streaming boldly in, doing their
bravest to melt into oil the balls of butter on the table, for poor, tired, bewildered Sadie
had forgotten to let down the shades, and forgotten the ice for the butter, and had laid the
table cloth crookedly, and had no time to straighten it. Craving, anxiety, sudden terrors, waiting long, the last
moments of distress, the efforts of ingenuity to find resources the traits of courage, drama,
finally, love pursued with all its mysterious device and dissimulation, greatly pleased him.
It was not shake, place signs on the balconies, hide her lover and kept two fingers to be discovered,
it was monotonous and annoying. Many times, being in bed late at night, they shivered to hear
the sound of a carriage! I quickly raised my head, hands clenched clutching the arm of her lover,
listening anxiously. Could not he come in her husband and surprise? How scary! What anguish!
Only when the car was still long ahead house vibrating crystals, is soothed his grief and came
to life.

A new adventure very unpleasant, similar to the cabinet, came to end with the patience Miguel and
give courage to require serious attention to General to make his maiden aware of what was
happening.

From the adventure of the wardrobe, Miguel, where the maid was coming, hid in the bedroom under
the bed. One night, as usual, Lucy told him that was the hiding place for Carmen arranged
with the accounts of the day. It seemed that a great way to disguise and avoid suspicion. Then
pulled the bell, and having come to the moment Carmen was yet to take your mind calm. It was
time for domestic confidences: the girl, while explaining the use of money, amused to tell all incidents
insignificant in the day, nonadas of the house spoke at length of the grace of Chuchú, their
appropriate answers, realizing it was the skinny lady, complained Some swear the head, had
to chuckle when Miss Anne had bought a new rice powder box .-- Bah! Why women want that good
rice powder? Of all still has to go out uglier than Pici! - spent reviewing the easement and formulated
judgments and accusations. Mary did not get along with footman. The driver was very bad life
his wife, on Wednesday, had stuck with the whip until he was tired so .-- What Men There is
evil! Eh, Miss? To find one like that, you'd better be single forever.

The General tried to cut sharply the issues and short. Carmen went to the flattery that night to
prolong the conversation .-- How beautiful was the lady with the blue dress had since yesterday
afternoon! The Maid of the Ramirez had heard the gentleman tell his sister. All colors will
come right to the lady, but particularly the blue! ... Ah, blue suited him more than anyone else!

Lucia
was touched for a moment: he asked with interest by Ramírez .-- Is
it true that the gentleman are going to Paris one of these days?

An ugly guy, but nice: one day he had heard tell a very funny happened. Then she talked about a dress
she planned to be done, light-colored velvet trimmed with crimson, an idea that had happened
to her without refer to the dressmaker, was sure he had to like a lot. But suddenly turned
itself and said quick word and dry:

- Come on, ... the tissue of the girl sixteen, eh?

- Yes, ma'am.

-
Is forty-three ... Have you bought V. soap?

- Nothing more than a
pill ... I do not remember if the lady had sent to buy two or ...

-
I had had to buy two, but no matter ... Where has put V.?

- In the
bedroom, on the night table.

In pronouncing these words came into the bedroom to find the pill.

When he approached the table, uttered a cry of terror.

Miguel was stiff at the bottom of hiding.

The General, haggard voice asked from out:

- What is it, Carmen?

- Miss ... a man's hat on your bed!

There was a moment of silence, during which the heart was jumping
Miguel terrible.

The General soon recovered.

- And so it scares V., silly?

... Stirring my closet, I stumbled on that hat Mr., I do not know how he came to give him ...
I interfered and I got it ... If V. wants and can take some of it,
take it ... is useless.

- Thank you, Miss - said the girl, leaving
his hat in his hand .-- I have a brother who would serve maybe ...

Nothing
more was said about it.

The General has continued to take the calm, pale face, the voice a little upset.

Miguel was needed to leave that night without a hat. He waited a while in the neighboring portal
and got into the rental car first hit to cross.

Finally yielded to the general's wishes, strongly expressed by her lover, and was entrusted the
maid. Since then, his interviews were easy and peaceful. Carmen prevented them with art all
molestation, provided them full security and peace. With this new order of things he settled
very well our hero seemed they had taken a great weight shoulders,
in fact too expensive bought before the pleasures that his friend
gave him.

But the general's not got along so well with the quiet and prosaic bias taking his love; security,
stopwatch accuracy of quotations, the kind that they enjoyed calm, the lost heart, began to
bore her, and she weighed herself that Carmen had been paid so willingly to serve. All life
had the skinny on the adventures, but late this hobby has been exacerbated in a remarkable
manner, felt an appetite voracious extraordinary, as if he escaped the youth and I can not
conclude without a big hit. So you can not satisfy with tragic scenes dream because Miguel laughed
at his fears, God exercise his overheated imagination in other kinds of whims rare. Nothing
could be done in their relations in a normal way, was forced marinate all with some sort of mystery.
In the theaters, to communicate any news, can speak without hindrance, he preferred to use
a number of Masonic signs or signals made mysterious fan, gloves, twins and other utensils
of which was sometimes no little confusion and perplexity to Miguel. The letters he wrote
were always signed with name of man, Alfredo, as if they were from a friend to another, but
why not let you come dotted with all sorts of passionate phrases, "I loves with all his heart
... Alfredo. "" Beloved of my soul, minutes away from you become and ever ... "" Yesterday, watching
the moon from the balcony of my room I was struck by the memory night ride we have taken a
few days ago and felt the tears sliding down my face ... " "I sent a tender passionate embrace your
Alfredo." If such letters would be astray much to think and laugh at them Topara curious.

And the truth is not in short supply Lucia, nothing pleased him so much as dissolve the ardor of his
heart spent on endless lines. I had read many novels and blatantly copied concepts more amorous
package: in particular George Sand, his favorite novelist, was supplying a load of thoughts, sometimes
delicate, sometimes quirky, with that season their incommensurable epistles. His dot was very
spiritual write, plagued of exclamation points and ellipses. Not infrequently, after passing
through a Miguel few hours, he sent for the maiden five or six sheets of fine print.

The fantasy of the General's was even more prolific in inventing new pleasures pilgrims. One night in
March, in which rare heavy snow fell on Madrid, looking rolled slowly down through the atmosphere,
it came on appetite making a escursión Retreat with Michael .-- What must be beautiful at
this hour! We'll see snow curdling on the streets of sand and carpet form. What a pleasure
to sink my feet in it! ... And trees! How are the trees? How beautiful! ... I love the snow ... Do
you dare to go? ... Did You?

Clear that Michael did not dare, and he deplored the soul that strange whim, but was ashamed confess.
Resisted, although weak, expressed some doubts about whether they would consent entry; spoke vaguely
of pneumonia, catarrhal fever, etc.. The General was not listening; the project seemed so original,
that nothing would bring it into work, was most romancesco that would never have happened.
Miguel agreed at last, though reluctantly. No However, when they went outside and saw the
sky was clearing and the moon peeked and its silver disc by the edges of a cloud, could not help
uttering an exclamation enthusiasm.

The Retreat was wonderful, wrapped in white haik. The infatuation couples through him with extreme
joy, stopping often to communicate their views. That landscape, a little theater, had to be
disposed of to the General's pleasure. He walked in perpetual ecstasy, leaving exclamations of
surprise away, talking about the sweetness of death, the unseen world and regions where love
is everlasting, ever thought so superior, so far above the common level of humanity as then:
sympathized sincerely vulgar beings in those hours were quietly sleeping, as they did not have
the magical effect of the moon on the snow. Miguel sorry not much, especially since I had sneezed
four or five times.

When viewing a corner where the snow had crystallized in more abundance, surrounded by high hedges
of rose where the trees let go of his arms, thin threads of light, the general's caught and captive
stopped, a bizarre thought flashed through his head and a smile opened his lips. Miguel took his
hand and led him gently to the center of that great site, and allowed to bathe for a moment by
the moonlight. Mil poetic thoughts then crossed the imagination of the lady. What contempt and loathing
which inspired him that time the frivolous world was forced to live! Since that immaculate
white nest should be promoted from the pure regions of the ideal, the country of dreams, to live
and trade with privileged beings, where passion reigns without absurd social barriers. He felt transfigured
into semi-goddess, sublimated by the pale light that flooded and white tapestry lay at his
feet, deified by the swarm of high and beautiful ideas fluttering on his head. The seized with
a fit of passionate madness, and hung around his neck suddenly her lover, covering her with kisses,
then, like a wounded bird of love, dropped into snow, forcing Michael to sit at his side and
began to recite the voice tenderly poem that he had been subdued ever, Le Lac, Lamartine. Holding
hands, together the temples, eyes wet and longing, set in the disk of the moon, both drag dejáronse
gently into the world of chimeras delicious and entrancing accent repeated what had been said
a thousand times already. The white mantle of ermine retained its mark until the sun came to
remove it.

IX

Julia let out a loud guffaw, whose echoes reached the office of Michael. "How why that crazy laugh?
"he asked smiling in the mirror too while dressed to leave.

- Michael! Miguel! - Shouted his sister from the hall .-- Come here,
by God, look, for your life!

Came solicitous, and stick your face in the corridor, he saw his cousin Henry in a pimp suit;
short jacket, sash, embroidered camisole attached to the neck gold
buttons, hat width of felt, tight pants and patent leather boots:
the complement of the suit was a stick in hand, very long, and intended
to drive turkeys.

Julita is against the wall, clutching his waist with the hands to
break a tendon laughter.

Enrique standing near the door, smiling a little embarrassed.

Miguel continued to moment the example of his sister.

- The thing is not worth much laughter - he concluded by saying the
cousin, amostazado.

But neither Julia nor Miguel was ignored.

When they had a little calm, came to examined him, and curiosity.

-
But how the devil has given you and the occurrence of wear?

Did you see your father?

- No: I have been to wear home from a friend I have there the suit ...

- Well if you can see, the fixed throws a fit. And what business have you dress cool today?

-
Takes! Do not you know that opens the season?

- Ah!

"Today there are bulls?

"Kill the cigar?

- You bet!: After fifteen years since I step on the square in Madrid.

That's what came to see if want to go with me.

- Men - said undecided - I'm not very fond of the bulls, but the cigar I've been nice ... Will
you bring me area?

- I bring you the contrabarrera from a friend who is ill. Beside me you know you can not wear, because
all gates are paid, but we're close.

- Oh, take me, Michael! - Said Julia flew into neck .-- Take me to the bulls.

- Do you desire?

- Very big! I love bulls.

- That, that! - Enrique shouted enthusiastically. You are of pure Spanish race. Pisa that hat, chiquita!

And
onto the floor.

Julita minced no fuss, took the compliment to the letter and began to taconear the unfortunate hat in
such a way, that if Henry does not come in time it shatters.

- It's clear that you can not be polite - said in a bad mood while cleaning with the sleeve of
his jacket.

Miguel, prior permission from his stepmother, sent the servant for a home of Lazarus barouche
and a box to a reputable reseller. After mother and daughter wore the classic Miguel blanket
and changed his coat and hat for the American and the fungus, rose four to the carriage.

It was half past two o'clock. The sun was shining in the sky without a cloud peep the horizon
to get a touch paternalism. Madrid enjoyed the privilege of her divine sky without addressing
even a look of gratitude as a Sultana who caresses cause boredom. To cross the Puerta del Sol, saw
the jet source, firing glimmering flashes rise above the roof of the Principal. At the entrance
of the Calle de Alcala was a long queue of buses that crowd assaulted
a wistful, angry, as if they trying to escape a serious and immediate
danger. But quite contrary to what happens in such cases, instead
of opposing each other to climb, everyone helped with application
showing in advance what should be and what will eventually universal
brotherhood.

- Hey, good man, to be V. fall ... Deme V. Knight .--
hand, have I V. by the cane .-- No set V. foot on the wheel .-- Want
V. we pressed for more? Well, man, well, we tighten.

These cries
were heard everywhere, seeing some poor old through the air, high
the imperial arms of the bus at already in it. Faces glowed of joy,
just as the sky. The sidewalk on the right, where was the ticket office,
curd could be seen people that ran it in expectation that the towns
go down and verifications at your pocket. A number of private cars
and saloons covering point below the wide road, galloping towards
the square and through of them, leaving them back at once, ran runaway
buses, while those who were above, without fear of crashing, intoxicated
by the giddy race, greeted with cries joy to those who were leaving
behind them. Some picks with brocade jackets huge hats and also on
some evil galloping horse, carrying to the flanks to a friend affectionately
embraced him not to fall. The pawns slowly down the sidewalks, in
friendly conversation, forming tight and many groups.

"Commit thy way unto the Lord; trust also in him, and he shall bring it to pass."

"The Lord is nigh unto all them that call upon him--the Lord is gracious, and full of compassion."

"Look unto me and be ye saved, all ye ends of the earth; for I am God, and there is none else."

"Incline your ear, and come unto me; hear, and your soul shall live."

Silence for a moment, and then Ester repeated, in tones that were full of sweetness, that one
little verse, which had become the embodiment to her of all that was tender, and soothing and
wonderful: "What time I am afraid I will trust in thee." Was this man, moving toward the very
verge of the river, afraid? Ester did not know, was not to know whether those gracious invitations
from the Redeemer of the world had fallen once more on unheeding ears, or not; for with a little
sigh, born partly of relief, and partly of sorrow, that the opportunity was gone, she turned
to meet Dr. Van Anden, and was sent for a few moments out into the light and glory of the departing
day, to catch a bit of its freshness.

It was as the last midnight stroke of that long, long day was being given, that they were gathered
about the dying bed. Sadie was there, solemn and awe-stricken. Mrs. Ried had arisen from her
couch of suffering, and nerved herself to be a support to the poor young wife. Dr. Douglass,
at the side of the sick man, kept anxious watch over the fluttering pulse. Ester, on the other
side, looked on in helpless pity, and other friends of the Hollands were grouped about the
room. So they watched and waited for the swift down-coming of the angel of death The death
damp had gathered on his brow, the pulse seemed but a faint tremble now and then, and those
whose eyes were used to death thought that his lips would never frame mortal sound again, when
suddenly the eyelids raised, and Mr. Holland, fixing a steady gaze upon the eyes bent on him
from the foot of the bed, whither Ester had slipped to make more room for her mother and Mrs.
Holland, said, in a clear, distinct tone, one unmistakable word--"Pray!"

Will Ester ever forget the start of terror which thrilled her frame as she felt that look and
heard that word? She cast a quick, frightened glance around her of inquiry and appeal; but
her mother and herself were the only ones present whom she had reason to think ever prayed.
Could she, would she, that gentle, timid, shrinking mother? But Mrs. Ried was supporting the
now almost fainting form of Mrs. Holland, and giving anxious attention to her. "He says pray!"
Sadie murmured, in low, frightened tones. "Oh, where is Dr. Van Anden?"

Ester knew he had been called in great haste to the house across the way, and ere he could
return, this waiting spirit might be gone--gone without a word of prayer. Would Ester want
to die so, with no voice to cry for her to that listening Savior? But then no human being had
ever heard her pray. Could she?--must she? Oh, for Dr. Van Anden--a Christian doctor! Oh, if
that infidel stood anywhere but there, with his steady hand clasping the fluttering pulse,
with his cool, calm eyes bent curiously on her--but Mr. Holland was dying; perhaps the everlasting
arms were not underneath him--and at this fearful thought, Ester dropped upon her knees, giving
utterance to her deepest need in the first uttered words, "Oh, Holy Spirit, teach me just what
to say!" Her mother, listening with startled senses as the familiar voice fell on her ear,
could but think that that petition was answered; and Ester felt it in her very soul, Dr. Douglass,
her mother, Sadie, all of them were as nothing--there was only this dying man and Christ, and
she pleading that the passing soul might be met even now by the Angel of the covenant. Handed him a thick packet letters
and newspapers. In the letter envelopes and stamps was guessing who wrote to him: a single letter
from his wife, consisting of a single sheet, judging by its flexible thin, three very bulky Toni,
kind of diaries, in which was telling to shop, their crops, hopes to see come to the captain, all
mixed with plenty of news about war and unrest of the people. In addition, several sheets of banking
institutions Barcelona Ferragut realizing the use of their capital.

Standing on the steps of the palace, finished reviewing your correspondence on the outer face. Was
similar to that found at the back of his travels.

I was going to keep in their pockets and move on, when an envelope
caught his eye voluminous unknown letter, certificate in Paris ...

Curiosity
made him open it immediately, and saw in his hands a sheaf of true
leaves loose, a long story that went beyond the limits of a letter.

He looked at the printed letterhead and then the signing. Which he wrote was a lawyer in Paris,
and sensed by the paper Ferragut luxurious and address of her home that was to be a famous maître.
So remember to have found ever his name in the papers.

He began reading the first page there, longing to know why because
he wrote the serious character.

But scarcely had spent the eyes for a few lines, stopped reading. He stumbled over the name
of Freya Talberg. This was his defense attorney to the Council war.

Hastened to save the letter, dominating his impatience.

Felt the need for quiet absolute seclusion and loneliness experienced by a passionate reader
to acquire a new book. This bunch of papers contained for him the most interesting stories.

Speaking to his ship, it seemed the longer route than usual. He longed to be locked in his cabin,
far from curiosity, as if to make a mysterious operation.

Freya did not exist. Had disappeared from the world in a shameful, criminal and disappear, doubly
doomed, but even their memory was repelled by the people, and Ferragut, within Moments later,
it was going to emerge as a ghost in the houseboat she had visited twice. Could know the final
hours of its existence, wrapped in a mystery of contempt could force the hand of the judge,
who had condemned to loss of life and after death to perish in the
memory of all.

With real eagerness sat at the table of his cabin, tidying content about: more than twelve pages
written on both sides and several newspaper clippings. In these cuts saw the picture of Freya,
a hard and confusing picture. Recognized only by their name placed
at the bottom: it had been another woman.

He also saw the portrait of his defense: a old lawyer, neat appearance, with finely combed white
hair and youthful eyes.

Ferragut guessed from the first lines that the maître could not write or speak without literature.
His letter was a measured and accurate story, in which the emotion, to live was, it contained
quietly, not wanting to mess up the folds of a regal style.

Began his professional duty to explain how he had decided to defend
a spy.

Needed a lawyer, was foreign, public opinion, influenced by the exaggerated accounts the newspapers
about her beauty and her jewels, showed a fierce animosity, requesting a prompt punishment. Nobody
wanted to take over his defense, and that's why he had accepted,
without fear to the unpopularity.

Ferragut guess thought this sacrifice momentum old philanderer, who
had made Freya go because it was beautiful.

Moreover, this process was a Parisian event and could give some notoriety novel to those who intervene
in its proceedings.

A few paragraphs further, the ocean became convinced that the maitre
d 'had ended up falling in love of his client.

This woman to die when it scattered around its power seduction.

Professional success interviewed by the lawyer to dissolve the first steps. Defense Freya was
impossible. Crying for answer when he was questioned about the facts of his previous life, or
remained silent, motionless, staring, as well as if it was the fate of another woman.

Military judges did not need their confessions: they knew full detail by detail existence during
the war and in recent years of peace. Never police abroad had worked
so quickly and successfully.

A mysterious and good luck Sovereign pushed them in their search. They knew all the works of Freya,
had even provided accurate data about their personality a secret
agent, the number of order contained in the Berlin office on the money
they earned, their reports in recent months.

Documents written by herself, with an irrefutable guilt had come
to join the process, nobody knew where they were sent or by whom.

Each time the judge put Freya in the eyes of one of these tests, she looked desperately to his lawyer.

-
Them! - Moaning -. They who wish my death!

The defender was of the same opinion. The police had known their presence in France a letter
he addressed their leaders from Barcelona, ​​clumsily defaced, written
under A key to the mystery which was discovered by the French counter
long before.

For the maitre d ', was certainly a mysterious power had wanted to get rid of this woman sending
it to an enemy country as if it is sent to death.

The defender Ulises guessed a state of mind like his, the same duality that had plagued them
in all dealings with Freya.

"I, sir - he wrote the lawyer - I have suffered greatly. One of my sons, officer, died in battle
Aisne, others close to me, nephews and pupils, have died after Verdun
and East expeditionary army ... "

He had felt, as a Frenchman, an irresistible repulsion convinced that Freya was a spy who had caused
great damage to his country ... Then, as a man, took pity on its
unconsciousness, its adversarial nature and light up to the crime,
selfishness beautiful woman and friend of the estate, had to admit
that the moral turpitude to change welfare.

Its history attracted the interest lawyer beating an adventure novel.

Commiseration it was taking a vehemence of infatuation. Moreover, the idea that they were the
exploiters This woman who had reported a chivalrous enthusiasm inspired him to defend its cause
unsustainable.

The hearing before the council of war had been painful and dramatic. Freya, who until then seemed
stupefied by the regime of the prison, to be aroused in front of
a dozen men in uniform and severe.

His first impulse was that of all beautiful and flirtatious female. He knew his physical influence.
These converted military judges reminded him that she had seen in teas and great balls of hotels
... What the French can resist the attraction to women?

...

Had smiled, she had replied to the first questions with a gracious modesty, setting wickedly
candid eyes on the officers sitting behind the head table and the other men in blue uniform makers accused
or read the documents of his trial.

But there was something cold and hostile environment in which paralyzed her smiles, leaving
no echo his words and made dull the glow of an eye.

Every head bowed low severe weight thoughts all men at that moment seemed to have thirty years.
Would not as it was for more efforts to do. Their admiration and wishes lay abandoned on the
other side of the door.

Freya guessed that he had ceased to be a woman and was no more than one accused. Another of
her sex, an irresistible rival, fill it all, linking to these men
with a deep love and austere.

His instinct was to look at the white matron, her face serious, advancing its bust vigorously over
the president's head. It was the country, Justice, Republic, watching with his eyes vague
and female pupil to the flesh and blood began to tremble, giving aware of his situation.

- I do not want to die !...-- cried suddenly, leaving his empty, going to be a poor creature mad
with fear -. I am innocent!

Lied to the absurd and blatant illogicality of that seen in danger
of death was necessary re-read his first statement, which denied now,
to resubmit the evidence materials, whose existence would not admit,
to march the entire past supported of those irrefutable facts of anonymous
origin.

- It is they who have done it all!

... They abused me! ... Because they want my loss, I shall tell what I know.

The lawyer went slightly in his account of what happened in the council of war. The secret professional
and patriotic interest prevented him from being more explicit.

Council had lasted from morning till night, their judges Freya revealing everything he knew
... Then, his counsel spoke for five hours, trying to establish a kind of exchange in the implementation
sentence. This woman's guilt was unquestionable and very great evils which had caused. But life
had to give in exchange for their confessions important ... In addition, had to take account
of the irresponsibility of their character ... revenge of the object did the country's enemies
...

He waited until late at night, next to Freya, the court's decision.

Her client seemed animated by hope. Had returned to being a woman, spoke quietly to him, smiling
les gendarmes to charge for their care, did praise the army ... "Some French, some Knights
were unable to kill a woman ... "

The maitre d 'was not surprised to see the sad and sulky gesture of the military to leave deliberation.
Seemed unhappy with his recent vote showed at once the serenity a
clear conscience.

They were soldiers who had just reached his austere duty, removing
everything he had on them as mere men.

The manager read the sentence swelled its voice with a fictitious energy ... "A death !...» Freya
was sentenced to be shot after a long list of crimes: reports given to the enemy, representing the
loss of thousands of men, ships torpedoed in consequence of their ads, where they had perished helpless
families.

The Spy shook his head to listen to their own actions, appreciating for the first time full enormity,
recognizing the justice of the tremendous punishment.

But at the same time confident a gracious pardon to change all that was revealed in a gallant
mercy ... to be her.

At the sound of the fatal word, uttered a cry, pale, pale as ashes, and relied on its attorney.

-
I do not want to die ... I will not die! ... I am innocent!

He continued shouting his innocence, without giving further proof that the desperate instinct
of preservation. With credulity that you want saved, accepted all the comforts of his defense
problem.

Stayed the action to appeal to the grace of the President: maybe the pardon ... He signed
this appeal with sudden hope.

Got the lawyer suspended for two months of sentence visited many of
his colleagues who were political figures.

The desire to save his client's life was haunted like an obsession. Had devoted to this subject
throughout its business and personal influences.

"Love! ... Love like you! "He said in a tone of mockery in the brain Ferragut voice of wise
counsel.

The newspapers protesting the delay in the execution of the sentence.

He began to dream in the talks on behalf of Freya Talberg as an argument against the weak government.
Women were the ones that were more ruthless.

One day in the Palace of Justice, had been convinced of the general animosity that pushed his
client to the guns of the execution. The woman in charge of keeping the togas, verbose midwife familiar
with the treatment of distinguished lawyers, had made their views
rudely.

- When to kill that spy?

... If I were a poor woman with children, they need earn their bread, and have shot ... But
it is a cocotte elegant and jewels may be slept with the ministers. Any day we shall see in
the street ... And my son who died Verdun! ...

The prisoner, as if divining the public outrage, immediately began to consider their death, losing
little by little the love of life, which made him break into lies and crazy protests. In vain hopes
maître pretended pardon.

- It is useless: I must die ... I have the right to shoot me ... Have caused much damage ...
I horrified at myself to remember all the crimes in the sentence
... And there others ignore!

... The loneliness has made me know as I am. What a shame! ... I go: I have lost everything ...
What I have to do in the world? ...

"And then, dear sir - continued the lawyer in his letter - when you
told me, as how they met, the damage they did unconsciously.

"

Convinced of the futility of his efforts, the maitre d 'had requested
a last favor.

Freya wanted to accompany her at the time of execution: it would
maintain its serenity.

And government promised to his colleague on the forum a timely notice to assist in fulfilling
of the sentence.

It was three o'clock in the morning and was in the best of his dream when he awoke to sent
to the Prefecture of Police.

The execution would take place at dawn: it was a decision at the last moment, to journalists later
they found out the event.

A car with his companions took him to
the prison of Saint Lazare, Paris through silent and gloomy. Only
a few reverberations hooded cut its pale light the dark streets. In
prison he met with other officials and many police chiefs and officers
representing the military justice system. The sentenced was asleep
in his cell, not knowing what I was going to happen.

They marched
in single file through the corridors of the prison in charge of waking,
shaded and timid, jostling with their nervous haste.

A door opened.
Under the regulatory light was Freya in bed with eyes closed. To open
and be surrounded by men, his face swelled with a wave of terror.

-
Value, Freya! - Said the prison director -. The request for clemency
was denied.

- Courage, my daughter - said the priest of the establishment,
starting the beginning of a conversation.

Their terror only lasted
a few seconds. Surprise was the rude awakening, the brain still paralyzed.
By bringing their memories and serenity returned to his face.

- Should
I die? - Asked - and the time has come? ... Well, I shot. Here I am.
Some men turned their heads to hide their eyes ...

He had to jump
out of bed in the presence of two guards. This precaution was to avoid
attempt on his life. She asked the lawyer to remain in the cell, as
if would thus reduce the time to dress before strangers.

Ferragut
surmised pity and admiration of maître At this passage in his letter.
He had seen her half naked, laying the last hit of his life.

"Adorable
creature! So beautiful! ... He was born to love and luxury, and was
about to die torn by bullets as a tough soldier ... "

Miserable witnesses they! Was not the Lord ashamed of them all, I wonder? Something like this
flitted through Ester's brain as she looked around upon that faithless company, and noted here
and there one who certainly ought to "take up his cross." Then some slight idea of the folly
of that expression struck her. What a fearful cross it was, to be sure! What a strange idea
to use the same word in describing it that was used for that blood-stained, nail-pierced cross
on Calvary. Then a thought, very startling in its significance, came to her. Was that cross
borne only for men? were they the only ones who had a thank-offering because of Calvary? Surely
her Savior hung there, and bled, and groaned, and died for HER. Why should not she say, "By
his stripes I am healed?" What if she should? What would people think? No, not that either.
What would Jesus think? that, after all, was the important question. Did she really believe
that if she should say in the hearing of that assembled company, "I love Jesus," that Jesus,
looking down upon her, and hearing how her timid voice broke the dishonoring silence, would
be displeased, would set it down among the long list of "ought not to have" dones? She tried
to imagine herself speaking to him in her closet after this manner: "Dear Savior, I confess
with shame that I have brought reproach upon thy name this day, for I said, in the presence
of a great company of witnesses, that I loved thee!" In defiance of her education and former
belief upon this subject, Ester was obliged to confess, then and there, that all this was extremely
ridiculous. "Oh, well," said Satan, "it's not exactly wrong, of course; but then it isn't very
modest or ladylike; and, besides, it is unnecessary. There are plenty of men to do the talking."
"But," said common sense, "I don't see why it's a bit more unladylike than the ladies' colloquy
at the lyceum was last evening. There were more people present than are here tonight; and as
for the men, they are perfectly mum. There seems to be plenty of opportunity for somebody."
"Well," said Satan, "it isn't customary at least, and people will think strangely of you. Doubtless
it would do more harm than good."

This most potent argument, "People will think strangely of you," smothered common sense at
once, as it is apt to do, and Ester raised her head from the bowed position which it had occupied
during this whirl of thought, and considered the question settled. Some one began to sing,
and of all the words that could have been chosen, came the most unfortunate ones for this decision:

  "On my head he poured his blessing,
    Long time ago;
  Now he calls me to confess him
    Before I go.
  My past life, all vile and hateful,
    He saved from sin;
  I should be the most ungrateful
    Not to own him.
  Death and hell he bade defiance,
    Bore cross and pain;
  Shame my tongue this guilty silence,
    And speak his name."

This at once renewed the struggle, but in a different form. She no longer said, "Ought I?"
but, "Can I?" Still the spell of silence seemed unbroken save by here and there a voice, and
still Ester parleyed with her conscience, getting as far now as to say: "When Mr. Jones sits
down, if there is another silence, I will try to say something"--not quite meaning, though,
to do any such thing, and proving her word false by sitting very still after Mr. Jones sat
down, though there was plenty of silence. Then when Mr. Smith said a few words, Ester whispered
the same assurance to herself, with exactly the same result. The something decided for which
she had been longing, the opportunity to show the world just where she stood, had come at last,
and this was the way in which she was meeting it. At last she knew by the heavy thuds which
her heart began to give, that the question was decided, that the very moment Deacon Graves
sat down she would rise; whether she would say any thing or not would depend upon whether God
gave her any thing to say--but at least she could stand up for Jesus. But Mr. Parker's voice
followed Deacon Graves'; and this was what he said:

"Am I to understand by your silence that there is not a Christian man or woman in all this
company who has an unconverted friend whom he or she would like to have us pray for?"

Then the watching Angel of the Covenant came to the help of this trembling, struggling Ester,
and there entered into her heart such a sudden and overwhelming sense of longing for Sadie's
conversion, that all thought of what she would say, and how she would say it, and what people
would think, passed utterly out of her mind; and rising suddenly, she spoke, in clear and wonderfully
earnest tones:

"Will you pray for a dear, dear friend?"

God sometimes uses very humble means with which to break the spell of silence which Satan so
often weaves around Christians; it was as if they had all suddenly awakened to a sense of their
privileges.

Dr. Van Anden said, in a voice which quivered with feeling: "I have a brother in the profession
for whom I ask your prayers that he may become acquainted with the great Physician."

Request followed request for husbands and wives, mothers and fathers, and children. Even timid,
meek-faced, low-voiced Mrs. Ried murmured a request for her children who were out of Christ.
And when at last Harry Arnett suddenly lifted his handsome boyish head from its bowed position,
and said in tones which conveyed the sense of a decision, "Pray for me" the last film of worldliness
vanished; and there are those living to-day who have reason never to forget that meeting. Felt the need to breathe, to live in the scented environment that enveloped
her, following in his footsteps.

Seeing the captain reached out just the same as if they had seen the
day above.

- You will not complain, Ferragut!

... As I did not find the hotel, I felt the need to visit your vessel ... He wanted to know their
houseboat. All I care about you.

It seemed another woman. Ulises noticed the great change that had taken place in him Over the
past days. His eyes were bold, enticing, a tranquil immodesty. All it seemed to offer. Their
smiles, their words, their way of marching on the cover the chambers of the vessel, to denote a
resolution of an early end to his long resistance, yielding to the
wishes of the ocean.

Despite past failures, he felt again the joy of victory. "Now is to be! My absence has expired
... "And while savoring the sweet satisfaction love and pride of triumph, a vague instinct suggested
the suspicion that this woman suddenly transformed, you may want
less now than in previous days, when refused, advising him to flee.

In the dining room was the presentation of his second. The harsh glare Toni experienced the same
that had troubled to all of the ship. What a woman!

... In the first apologized and realized instantly the conduct of their captain. Then his eyes were
fixed upon her with an expression of alarm, as if his presence do
him tremble for the fate of the steam.

Ended up feeling embarrassed in front of this lady who was examining
the room as if it were to stay there forever.

Freya was interested a few moments for the hairy ugliness of Toni. He was a true Mediterranean
as she imagined them: a faun tracker nymphs.

Ulysses smiled at the praise directed his mate.

- Must be in the shoes - she went - a nice pezuñitas such as goats. You must know how to play
the flute. Did not think so, Captain? ...

The Faun, sulking and angry, finally leaving, waving awkwardly on exit. Ferragut was relieved with this
absence, fearing a dirty word Toni.

When left alone with Odysseus, ran from one side to another by the great camera.

- Here is where you live, dear shark? ... Let me see you all, that you register it. I'm interested
in him: he will not say now that I love him. What pride to Captain
Ferragut!

The ladies come to seek him in his ship ...

Stopped their chatter to defend ironic and gently loving sailor. This, forgetting the past and
wanting to take the happiness she gave him suddenly, he hugged the
visitor kissing her neck.

- Then ... then! - she sighed -.

Now let me see. I feel a curious child.

He opened the piano, piano poor Scottish captain, and a faint line and whimpering, detuning product
of several years, moved the room with the melancholy of revived memories.

The music was equal to that of melodic boxes that are forgotten in the bottom of a closet, among
the clothes of an old dead. Freya said that he smelled of dried roses music.

Then, abandoning the piano, opened one after another all the cabin doors giving the classroom. In
the master bedroom is stopped, not wanting to pass the threshold, hold brass latch held in his
right hand. Ferragut, behind her, pushed her to soft treason, while repeating his touch in
the neck.

- No, not here - she said -. Nothing in the world! ... I'll be yours,
I promise: I give you my word.

But wherever I want, when I look ... Soon, Ulysses!

He felt all the delight of these statements, made with a caressing voice and submissive; all
the pride of this familiarity spontaneous, equivalent to a first delivery.

The arrival of an acolyte of Uncle Caragol made them regain their peace of mind. He had two huge
cocktail glasses filled with red and sparkling, heady and sweet mixture,
summary of all knowledge acquired by Cook in his dealings with the
first drunk ports worldwide.

She tasted the liquid, squinting like a cat tooth. Then she burst into singing, raising his glass
in a dignified manner. Offered his libation to Eros, the most good of the gods. And Ferragut,
who had always felt a certain fear of hell and pleasing to the mixtures of cook, drained his glass
in one gulp, to join the invocation.

Everything was arranged between them. She gave the orders. Ferragut return to the land, apartments
in the same harbor. Continue their former life as if nothing had happened.

- This afternoon, I wait in the gardens of the Villa Nazionale ... Yes, wherever you wanted
kill me, villain! ...

Before he could evoke the image of that night of violence, came forward to Freya memories with
a cunning female ... Ulysses was the one who had wanted to kill her, I said it, without admitting
response.

- Go to visit the doctor - he continued -. The poor wants to see, and asked me to take you. Is
very interested in you since you know I love you, my pirate!

...

After fixing the time of the meeting, Freya wanted to go.

But before returning to his boat felt the curiosity to search the ship, and had registered
the room and cabins.

With an air of reigning princess, preceded and followed the captain of the officers, ran the
two decks, overlooks the iron galleries of the machines and the squared pit cargo hatch, getting
the musty smell of the cellars. On the bridge played with enthusiasm childish brass cap of
the blog and other management tools, bright as if they were gold.

Wanted to see the kitchen, or invaded the domains of Uncle Caragol, putting in an appalling mess formations
of pans, sticking his pink nose to the mouth of the large pot smoking in boiling lunch people.

The
old man could see her up close with their short-sighted eyes.

"Yes she was beautiful!" The fluttering of their Frequently encontrones skirts and took her
in his comings and goings through the kitchen disrupted the apostle. His eye for guisandero felt
bothered by the scent of this woman.

"Beautiful, but with the smell of ...», repeated mentally. For him, all women's perfume deserved
this title offensive. Women smell good to fish and to wool: he was sure of it ... In its distant
youth, the poor knowledge Caragol had not gone further.

When left alone, he grabbed a rag, shaking violently as if shaking off flies. Wanted clean
the air of odors. He felt shocked, as if they had dropped a bar of soap in one of its rice.

The
ship's men piled on the edges to follow the progress of the boat
pulled away.

Toni, at the foot of the bridge, also looked enigmatic eyes.

- Beautiful you are, but that the sea will swallow before you come
back!

...

An arm waved a handkerchief at the stern of the boat. "Farewell, Captain!" And the captain moved head,
smiling and excited about the women's greeting, while the sailors
envious good luck.

Another time a man of the crew carried luggage Ferragut the harbor
from the shore Santa Lucia.

The porter, as if sensing the inclinations of the client tips easy,
took care to choose his room one floor below the previous time, around
which occupied the signora Talberg.

Was found in mid afternoon at the Villa Nazionale, and waged together the march through the streets
of Chiaia. When Ulysses finally going to know where the doctor concealed his majestic personality.
Sensed something special in this space, but was willing to conceal her impressions, for fear of
losing the love and support of the wise lady, who seemed to have a large domain on Freya.

Entered the vestibule of an ancient palace.

Many times he had stopped the ocean before your door, but kept going, misled by the metal sheets
announcing offices and desks installed at various floors.

Saw an arcaded courtyard, paved with large slabs, which gave the balconies bellied on all four sides
inside the palace. They climbed a ladder of echoes awake, large as a sloping street, with width
riots in the past allowed the passage of berths and carriers. As a reminder of the characters
in white wigs and ladies guardainfante widths that had passed through it, there were some busts
in landings, a wrought iron railing hammer of gold and several fuzzy farolones and murky glass.

They
stopped at the first floor, doors to a row of some decayed over the
years.

- Here is - Freya said.

He noted specifically the only door that was covered with a green leather screen, displaying a commercial
sign, huge, golden, pretentious.

The doctor was staying in an office ... How He had come to find it!

The first piece was actually an office, a merchant's office, with box for papers, maps, safe
and several tables. One employee worked: a man of uncertain age, with boyish face and mustache
trimming. Their obsequious and smiling gesture contrasted with fleeting glance, a look of alarm
and distrust.

Seeing Freya rose from his seat. This Karl greeted him by calling
him, and passed on, as if a porter.

Ulysses, follow guessed fixed on their backs look suspicious the clerk.

- Is it also Polish? - Asked.

- Yes, Polish ... He is a protégé of Dr..

They entered a room furnished in a hurry, with special art and which
are easy accustomed to travel and have to improvise a home: sofas
with colorful Indian and cheap American guanaco skins, garish carpets,
a false Orientalism, and the sheets of newspapers from walls golden
rods.

On a table wearing their ivory and silver a great need to open the
leather cover.

A few statues were Neapolitan purchased at the last moment to give an air of respectability to
sedentary this room could quickly dispose, and which were most valuable
ornaments travel items.

Distinguished by a curtain parted to the doctor, writing in the next
room.

He was hunched over a desk America, but immediately saw in the mirror that was in front of her
to spy on what was happening behind him.

Ulises guessed that the lady had made some impressive toilet preparations to receive him. A narrow
dress as a cover molding the exuberance of its forms. The skirt collection and narrow at the
top of his legs, looked like the handle of a huge club. On the green Marine wore a white tulle
dress with silver sequins, as a shawl. The captain, notwithstanding his respect for the wise
lady, compared to a well-fed mother mermaid ocean meadows.

With hands outstretched and a joyful expression on his face, which was irradiated lenses, advanced
to Ferragut. Your encontrón almost was a hug ... "Dear Captain! Long !...» knew without seeing
him often, reports of her friend, but even so, sorry as a disgrace that the ocean had not come
to see her.

He seemed to forget his cold to leave in Salerno, care was taken to conceal the address of your
home.

Ferragut also agreed that, greatly moved by the kindness of the doctor. It was sitting between
them, as if to protect them with all the majesty of his person and
affection of his eyes.

She was a mother for her friend. Stroking, talking, tufts Freya's hair, which had just fought the
closure of the hat.

And Freya, adapting the tender atmosphere of the situation, will
ball up against the doctor, taking an air of girl timid, caressing,
while his eyes fixed on Ulysses sweet promise.

- You Want it very
much, captain - kept telling the midwife - Freya just talking about
you ... It was so miserable!

... Life has been so cruel to her! ...

The sailor felt the same excitement as if he were in a quiet family atmosphere. That lady was quietly
made things, speaking as a son.

His look of kindness had a melancholy expression. It was the sweet sadness of older people that
are monotonous This measured the future, and take refuge in the memories of the past, I envy the
young people because they can enjoy in reality what they savored
only in memory.

- Blessed are you!

... Love one a lot! ... Only love is worth the life is worth living.

And Freya, as if irresistibly softened to the above, and moved an arm corseted balloons to the doctor,
pressing convulsively the right hand of Ulysses.

The lenses of gold, with its brightness protector, seemed to encourage them to greater intimacy.
"They could kissing ... "The impressive lady, to facilitate its expansion,
was about to leave, citing a pretext insignificant, when it lifted
the curtain of the door between the room with the office.

A man entered the age of Ferragut, but lower in height, less hardened
face tanning by the weather.

He was dressed to the English with scrupulous correctness. Hinted at in the most trivial and
childish concerns at all about the trim of person.

The suit, gray flannel, appeared enhanced by the unity of the tie, socks and handkerchief
overlooking the breast pocket. The three pieces were blue, with no slightest variation in tone, chosen
with precision, as if this man could suffer cruel now out into the street with a color tie and
socks in another. Her gloves had the same dark yellow of his shoes.

Ferragut felt that this gentleman, to be complete, should bring his face shaved. And however, wore a
beard, a beard to the surface of the cheeks and forming the chin
short and sharp tip.

The captain felt he was a sailor. In the German fleet in Russian, in all North Sea, the officers
were not shaved to the English used this traditional chin.

He bowed, or better said, bent at an angle, with sudden stiffness, kissing hands the two ladies.
Then he took a monocle impertinent fixity to one of his eyes, while
Dr. made the presentations.

- Count Kaledine ... Captain Ferragut.

Count shook hands with the sailor, a tough, well maintained and strong that remained long while
on the Ulysses, wanting to dominate with a pressure no affection.

The conversation continued in English, which was the language used by the doctor in their relations
with Ulysses.

- "The Lord is ocean? - He asked for clarification.

Monocle not moved in its orbit, but a slight tremor of surprise seemed to ruffle his luminous convexity.
The doctor was quick to respond:

- The Count is a distinguished diplomat who is now on leave, caring
for your health.

He has traveled much, but it is not marine.

He continued his explanation. The Kaledine were a noble Russian family of great times Catalina.
The doctor, being Polish, I was connected with them for many years ... And stopped speak, giving
entrance to Kaledine in the conversation.

At first the count was cold and somewhat cavalier in his words, as
if he could shed of diplomatic arrogance.

But this pride went slowly melting.

Known for his "distinguished friend Mrs. Talberg" many of the nautical adventures Ferragut. He
wanted to know the men of action, the heroes of the ocean.

Ulises suddenly noticed his noble interlocutor warm affection, such a desire to please to the doctor.
Beautiful home that, in which all strove to be sympathetic Captain Ferragut!

The count, smiling graciously, left to fend English, and he suddenly spoke in Spanish, as if he
had booked this final blow to finish captured his affection with the most irresistible of flattery.

-
I lived in Mexico - said to explain his knowledge of the language -. I made a long trip to the Philippines
when I lived in Japan.

The seas of the Far East were the least frequented by Ulysses. Only twice had Chinese sailed
to ports and Nipponese, but knew enough to keep the conversation with this flyer showing some sophistication
in his tastes as an artist.

For half an hour paraded through the lounge atmosphere of vulgar
images of huge roof pagodas overlapping vibrating in the breeze, like
a harp, with its rows of bells, idols carved monstrous in gold, bronze
or ivory paper houses, bamboo thrones, furniture inlaid mother of
pearl, screens with rows of cranes flying.

Dr. disappeared, stunned by this dialogue, which could only guess at some words. Freya, still, with
the sleepy eyes and a knee between his hands crossed, he kept addition, understanding the
conversation, but without intervening in it, as if offended oblivion in which the two men left.
Finally he slipped quietly, following the call leaning a hand to
a curtain.

The doctor prepared the tea and asked for help.

The conversation continued without a halt in these absences.

Kaledine had abandoned the Asian seas to go to the Mediterranean, it was anchored to an insistence
admiration. Another reason of affection for Ferragut, who was increasingly
sympathetic, notwithstanding her try a little ice age.

Suddenly realized that was not the Russian count who spoke, as with brief and accurate questions
made him speak to him, as if he is subjected to review.

Appreciated the expressions of interest that this great traveler gave
the small mare nostrum, and especially by the particularities of its
western basin, which wanted to know thoroughly.

Could ask how I wanted. Ferragut had mile by mile all the Spanish coast, the French and Italian,
and on the surface and in its funds.

Kaledine, perhaps to live in Naples, insisted on the Mediterranean predilection between Sardinia,
Southern Italy and Sicily, or is what the ancients called the Tyrrhenian
Sea ... Did you know Captain Ferragut islands unfrequented and almost
forgotten across from Sicily?

- I know everything - he said proudly.

And fully discern whether it was curiosity or if the count would be subject to a review concerned,
talked and talked.

He knew the Lipari archipelago, with its mining of sulfur and pumice, group of volcanic peaks
rising from the depths of the Mediterranean. They were placed the former to Aeolus, god of the
winds in them is throwing huge balls Stromboli lava, bursting with
a roar of thunder.

The volcanic scoria fall back into the chimneys of the crater or roll down the slope of the mountain
sinking into the waves.

Further west, isolated and lonely in a sea clear of obstacles, is
Ustica, a volcanic island and abrupt that the Phoenicians settled
and served as a refuge for pirates Saracen.

Its population is scarce and poor. Nothing to do with it, apart from some fossil shells of interest
to men of science ...

But the count was interested in this crater, dead and alone in the middle of a sea only frequent
the fishing boats.

Ferragut had seen also, although by far, entering the port of Trapani, the archipelago of Egadi
where large tuna fisheries. Once he landed in Pantelleria island,
midway between Sicily and Africa.

He was a towering volcanic cone emerging in the middle of the strait, and at whose feet were
alkaline lakes, sulphurous smoke, hot springs and prehistoric building
blocks, like those of Sardinia and the Balearics. Ships to Tunis and
Tripoli were taking shipment of raisins, only export of this ancient
Phoenician colony.

Between Pantelleria and Sicily, the sea floor
rose considerably, saving on its back a water layer at some points
was only twelve feet thick. Was extensive bank called the Adventure,
swelling volcanic island flooded twice, submarine pedestal Sicily.

Also,
the bank appeared to interest the Count Aventura.

- Well you know
the sea - said in a tone of approval.

Ferragut was going to keep
talking, but the two ladies entered with a tray containing service
area and various dishes of cakes. The captain was no surprise that
lack of bondage. The doctor and his friend were to him a women of
extraordinary ways, and all the actions was logical and natural. Freya
served tea with modest grace, as if was the daughter of the house.

They
spent the rest of the afternoon talking on distant voyages. No one
mentioned the war or to the concerns of Italy at that time to maintain
their neutrality or leave it. Seemed to live in a place inaccessible
to thousands of miles around the human throng.

The two women tried
to count, with a familiarity of tone, as persons of the same world,
but the sailor thought he noticed at times that you were afraid.

By
late afternoon, this person left his seat, and Ferragut did the same,
comprising that would put an end to his visit. The count offered to
accompany him. While saying goodbye the doctor, thanking him with
extreme courtesy would have made known to the captain, he Freya felt
squeezed his hand significantly.

- After Dark - mumbled slightly,
without moving his lips barely -. Come back later ... Wait.

Oh, joy!
... The eyes, the smile, the pressure of the hand, saying to him more.

Never
got a ride as nice as they marched alongside Kaledine through the
streets of Chiaia toward the shore. What did this man? ... Little
things to keep silence, but he seemed to observations of deep wisdom.
His voice was, he said, harmonious and caressing. Everything was just
lovely, the people walking the streets, Neapolitan noise dark, dark
sea, the whole life.

They parted at the door of the hotel. The count,
in spite of his offers of friendship, went without saying what their
home.

"No matter - thought Ferragut -. Return home to find the doctor.
"

The rest of the evening was spent alternately agitated by hope
and impatience. No I wanted to eat, the emotion had paralyzed his
appetite ... And once seated at table, ate More than ever, with an
eagerness mechanical and distracted.

I needed to walk, talk to someone,
for the passage of time more quickly, deceiving his restless waiting.
She did not return to the hotel until very late ... And precisely
retired to his room earlier than usual, thinking, with an illogical
superstitious that this would come before Freya.

His first movement
was seen in his room with pride. Looked at the ceiling, pitying the
ocean love that one week before lived upstairs. Poor man! How they
had laughed it! ... Odysseus himself was admired as a completely new
personality, happy and successful, separated from each other by a
painful period of humiliations and failures did not want to remember.

Very
long hours of anxiously awaiting! ... Paced smoking, lighting a cigarette
in the rest of the former. He opened the window, wanting to erase
the scent of strong snuff. She just liked oriental cigarettes ...
And the acrid smell persists cigar Tan, juicy and brave, reached into
his bag of toiletries, spilling onto the bed fund several bottles
of essence long forgotten.

A sudden concern bitter waiting. Which
was about to reach what was perhaps unaware of their room. He was
not sure giving him the address with sufficient clarity. It was possible
that would have been wrong ... Began to believe that indeed he was
wrong.

The fear and impatience made him open his door, standing on
the porch to watch by far the closed room Freya. She had no conception of how so mighty a
change could be wrought in the space of a few hours, so her only solution of the mystery was
that to serve some end which he had in view Dr. Douglass had chosen to assume a new character.

Later, on that same day, Sadie encountered Dr. Douglass, rather, she went to the side piazza
equipped for a walk, and he came eagerly from the west end to speak with her.

"Miss Sadie, I have been watching for you. I have a few words that are burning to be said."

"Proceed," said Sadie, standing with demurely folded hands, and a mock gravity in her roguish eyes.

"I want to do justice at this late day to Dr. Van Anden. I misjudged him, wronged him, perhaps
prejudiced you against him. I want to undo my work."

"Some things can be done more easily than they can be undone," was Sadie's grave and dignified
reply. "You certainly have done your best to prejudice me against Dr. Van Anden not only, but
against all other persons who hold his peculiar views, and you have succeeded splendidly. I
congratulate you."

That look of absolute pain which she had seen once or twice on this man's face, swept over
it now as he answered her.

"I know--I have been blind and stupid, wicked any thing you will. Most bitterly do I regret
it now; most eager am I to make reparation."

Sadie's only answer was: "What a capital actor you would make, Dr. Douglass. Are you sure you
have not mistaken your vocation?"

"I know what you think of me." This with an almost quivering lip, and a voice strangely humble
and as unlike as possible to any which she had ever heard from Dr. Douglass before. "You think
I am playing a part. Though what my motive could be I can not imagine, can you? But I do solemnly
assure you that if ever I was sincere in any thing in all my life I am now concerning this matter."

"There is a most unfortunate 'if' in the way, Doctor. You see, the trouble is, I have very
serious doubts as to whether you ever were sincere in any thing in your life. As to motives,
a first-class anybody likes to try his power. You will observe that 'I have a very poor opinion
of the world.'"

The Doctor did not notice the quotation of his favorite expression, but answered with a touch
of his accustomed dignity:

"I may have deserved this treatment at your hands, Miss Sadie. Doubtless I have, although I
am not conscious of ever having said to you any thing which I did not think I meant. I have
been a fool. I am willing--yes, and anxious to own it. But there are surely some among your
acquaintances whom you can trust if you can not me. I--"

Sadie interrupted him. "For instance, that 'first-class fanatic of the most objectionable stamp,'
the man who Dr. Douglass thought, not three days ago, ought to be bound by law to keep the
peace. I suppose you would have me unhesitatingly receive every word he says?"

Dr. Douglass' face brightened instantly, and he spoke eagerly:

"I remember those words, Miss Sadie, and just how honestly I spoke them, and just how bitterly
I felt when I spoke them, and I have no more sure proof that this thing is of God than I have
in noting the wonderful change which has come over my feelings in regard to that blessed man.
I pray God that he may be permitted to speak to your soul with the tremendous power that he
has to mine. Was capricious and intractable,
complaining about Toni and the other two officers because it accelerated the repair of the vessel.
He then spoke of the convenience of having no hurry to work more complete. To Caragol was the
victim of his temper, which he vented in the form of cruel sermons against the poison of alcohol
aficionados.

- When men need to be happy with something better than wine, which
provides more drunk that drink ... It is the woman, man Caragol.

Do not forget this advice.

The Cook, by force of habit, he replied: "Yes, sir ..."

But pity inside of the ignorance of men, which makes them focus all their happiness in spasms
and faces the most frivolous games.

Two days later the people on board saw that the captain breathed moved ashore. The ship was in an
uncomfortable place, near the coal descargaderos, its stern high so that the propeller was
recomposed.

Workers replaced the battered and broken plates with a hammer irresistible. Since I had to wait
about a month, it was better to stay in a hotel. And he sent his luggage to Paternope harbor
in the ancient shore of St. Lucia the same man who had appointed Freya.

Give to release a five liras, and advanced several questions, was the first thing Ferragut
did when installed in a high part, seeing the blue circle framed
Gulf the framework of a balcony.

The waiter, swarthy, mustachioed, listened intently, with a gratification third, and was finally
able to form a complete personality with all its data. The lady who
asked the signora was Talberg.

Was traveling, but was to return at any moment.

Odysseus spent a day with the tranquility of waiting in a safe place. I looked at the Gulf from
the balcony. At his feet was the Egg Island, joined to the mainland by a bridge.

The bersaglieri occupied its ancient castle, built by the Viceroy Don Pedro de Toledo. There were
several dark pink towers, who crowded on the narrow oval-shaped island. This fortress was
locked in the past the Spanish garrison cut to record your culebrinas
bombards and against the people of Naples when he did not want to
pay more imposts and taxes.

Its walls were erected on the ruins of another castle in which Frederick II kept their treasures,
whose chapel was painted by Giotto. And the medieval castle, which was only recall, had risen to
turn over the remains of the palace of Lucullus, who had the center of its famous gardens in this
small island, then called Megaris.

The bugles of bersaglieri glad the captain as the announcement of
a grand entrance.

"It's going to come, is going to get from one point to another ..." He looked at the two mountain
on the island of Capri, black in the distance, closing the Gulf as a promontory, and the coast of
Sorrento, rectilinear the same as a wall. "There she is ..." Then followed lovingly over the
steamers plying the vast blue cup, opening a triangle of foam. In all of them Freya come.

The first day was golden and hope. The sun shone in a cloudless sky, boiling the Gulf bubble
of light under a stationary atmosphere, without the slightest gust rizase its surface; the plume
of Vesuvius was straight and slim, stretching over the horizon like a pine tree white fumes.
At the foot of the balcony was succeeded by the hour buskers, singing barcarolles and voluptuous
love serenades. And she did not come!

The second day was silver and despair.

There was fog in the gulf, the sun was no more than a red circle could look ahead, as in northern
countries, the mountains had a lead gown and the clouds hid the cone
of the volcano, the sea seemed tin, and a cold wind swell, such as
candles, skirts and coats, by running to the nations by walk from
the shore.

The musicians were singing, but with melancholy sighs, the shelter of a corner to escape the
fierce gusts of the sea. "Die ... per die te! "moaned a baritone voice from harps and violins ...
And she did!

To tell the waiter that Talberg signora was in his room downstairs, Ulises trembled with anxiety.
What would she say to find installed in your hotel?

...

Lunch time was near, and waited impatiently for the daily signals
to lower the dining room.

First, an explosion sounded in the rear of the harbor, that shook walls and ceilings, stretching
into the vastness of the gulf. It was the noon cannon out of high Sant Elmo Castle. The horns
Egg Island to respond then your joyful call to the steaming pot,
and the hotel staircase stood the racket chinoiserie the gong announcing
that lunch was served.

Ulysses went down to take his table, looking in vain for the other
guests who had gone ahead.

Freya would be presented with the delay of a traveler who has just arrived and is busy in according
to him.

Lunched evil, continually looking at a large window with drawings of boats, fish and seagulls atragantándosele
snack every time they opened their multicolored leaves.

And it came at the end of lunch, and took his coffee slowly, though she appeared.

On returning to his room sent the mustachioed waiter for news ... La signora not had lunch at
the hotel: la signora had left while he was in the dining room. Probably to the night that would see
them.

During the meal suffered the same concerns, believing that Freya would appear whenever a Blurred
hand and a vague silhouette of a woman pushed the door to the other side of the opaque glass.

Long time walked through the lobby, furiously chewing his cigar, until
it was decided to addressing the porter, brown and crafty head sticking
out the edge of his desk, on flaps blue embroidered with gold keys,
seeing everything, hearing everything, as he seemed to sleep.

Ulises's approach made him jump up, just as if he heard the flutter
a paper currency.

Their reports were accurate. La signora Talberg rarely ate in the hotel. I had some friends who occupied
a furnished apartment in the neighborhood of Chiaia, and with them spent almost all day. Sometimes
even came to sleep ... And sat back down, fixing tight in one hand the ticket that was submitted
with your imagination.

After a bad night, Ulysses rose, determined to wait his widow at the entrance hotel. He took his breakfast
at a little table in the lobby, read newspapers, had to leave at
the door morning cleaning fleeing, pursued by dust brooms and carpet
shock, Once there, he pretended great interest in traveling musicians,
who spent romances and serenades, rolling his eyes when he presented
his hats.

Someone came to her company. It was the porter, who was familiar confianzudo as if the night
before had been established between the two strong friendship based on a secret.

He spoke of the beauties of the country, advising various excursions ... A smile, a word Ferragut cheerleader,
and would have immediately suggested other breaks which seemed ad
turn around their lips.

But the sailor sulking welcomed so kindly. This belitre going to interfere with his presence
the desired encounter, perhaps kept his side by the desire to see and know ... Taking advantage of
its fast absences, Ulysses away from the long Via Partenope, following the railing overlooking
the sea, pretending to be interested for all that was, but without losing sight of the hotel door.

He stopped at the stalls of the ostricarios examining the shell-pearl
shells lined on shelves, in baskets of oysters Fusaro, the huge shells,
hollow bodies, whose throat bellowed, as sellers, as a reminder, the
distant hum of the sea.

Miró, one by one, all boats cars, racing sloops, fishing boats and coasting schooners moored
in the small port of the island of Egg.

Froze to the gentle waves combing the foam on the rocks of the seawall
under the horizontal rods bourgeois, several villagers.

Suddenly he saw Freya along the avenue by the side of houses.

She recognized his time, and this discovery made her stop beside an intersection, wondering
proceed or flee into Naples.

He went to the sidewalk from the sea, moving toward Ferragut with
a placid smile, greeting him from afar as a friend whose presence
there is nothing extraordinary.

This puzzled the master security. Shook hands, and she asked quietly why he was there watching the waves
and if advanced repairs of his ship.

- But you will confess that my presence was surprised! - Ulysses said, somewhat irritated by this peace
-. Recognize that not expecting to find here.

Freya repeated his smile with a sweet expression of pity.

- It is
natural that you're here.

You are in your neighborhood, at the sight of your hotel ... We neighbors.

To

recreate the astonishment of the captain, was a long pause. Then he added:

- I saw your name on the guest list yesterday, reaching the hotel.
It is my custom.

I like to know who my neighbors.

- Is that why you did not go down to the dining room? ...

Ulysses asked this question hoping that she responded negatively. I could not do otherwise, if only
for good education.

- Yes, so - Freya answered simply -. I guessed that I hoped to get out to meet, and do not want
to get into the dining room ... I warn you I'll always do it.

Ulysses launched an 'ah' of wonder ... No woman had spoken so frankly.

-
Nor am I surprised by their presence here - she continued -, the expected.

I know the innocent wiles of men. "Since yesterday I found the hotel, I expected today in the
street" I said this morning when I wake up ... Before I followed his walks out from the window my
room ...

Ferragut looked at her with surprise and dismay. What a woman! ...

- I could have escaped any side street while you were back. I've seen
you before to me ... But I do not like false situations are prolonged.

It is better to say all the truth face to face ... And so I came to meet him.

Instinct made him turn his head toward the hotel. The doorman stood in the doorway, looking
sea, but certainly with his eyes to them.

- Let - said Freya -. Join me a little, talk, and then I leave you ... Maybe we split up more friends
than before.

They walked in silence all the way Partenope, until they reached the gardens of the riverside
of Chiaia, losing sight of the hotel. Ferragut wished to resume the conversation, but found the
first words. Apparently feared ridicule. I was afraid of this woman.

He realized to contemplate with adoring eyes of the great changes
that were made in the adornment of his person.

Tailleur no longer wearing the dark with which he had first seen time. She wore a silk dress,
blue and white, with a rich leather on the shoulders and a plume heron feather on top of the
wide hat.

The black hand bag that accompanied on his trip had been replaced by a bag of gold of ostentatious
wealth, Australian gold, a shade of green, similar to the patina of the bronze Florentines.
She wore in her ears two large square emerald and fingers half-dozen of bright, which moved
from side to side in the sunlight.

The pearl necklace was fixed on her neck, poking out the neck angle ... It was a magnificent artist
rich I check everything over, the love of jewelry that can not live
without his touch and puts on his skin just jumps out of bed, ignoring
the time and the rules of discretion.

But Ferragut could not distinguish the lateness of this luxury.

All of it seemed admirable.

Without knowing how, was launched to speak. The same was shocked to hear his voice, always saying
same things in different words. His thoughts were incoherent, but all were crowding around
a constantly repeated assertion: his love, his immense love for Freya.

And Freya continued marching in silence with a look of pity in the eyes and the corners of his
mouth. He liked his women proud to watch this strong man babbling with a childlike confusion.
At the same time, impatient at the monotony of his words.

- Do not
follow the captain - broke at last -.

Guess all that's left to say, and I've heard leading often said. "You do not sleep, you do not
eat, you do not live because of me." Their existence is impossible without love you. A little
more conversation, and I threaten to stick a shot if I am not yours
... Music known!

They all say the same thing.

There are no creatures with less originality than men when they want something ...

Avenue were in a walk.

Through the palms and magnolias was seen on one side Gulf bright and rich on the other buildings
on the banks of Chiaia. Some little boys chased ragged around the couple, chasing. They were
then placed next to to a white gazebo that stood at the bottom of
the avenue.

- Well, love Sea Wolf - continued Freya - you do not
sleep, eat you, mates if it is your whim, but I can not love him,
I'll love you ever.

Lost all hope.

Life is not fun, and I have other serious concerns absorb all my time.

Through the playful smile which accompanied these words, Ferragut surmised a will very firm.

- Then - said in dismay - "everything will be useless?

... "Even if I make the greatest sacrifices? ... Even if you provide evidence of a love as ever
known? ...

- All useless - she replied flatly, still smiling.

They had reached the temple, dome supported by white columns, with
a gate around.

Virgil's bust stood in the center: a huge head of something feminine beauty.

The poet died in Naples, "the sweet Partenope 'on his return from
Greece, and his body maybe he was gutted in the belly of this garden.

The crowd Neapolitan Middle Ages had attributed all sorts of wonders, to convert the poet powerful
magician. The sorcerer Virgil built in one night the Egg Castle, placing her hands on a large egg
floating in the sea. Also had to blow open the old tunnel Possilipo, near which there is a vineyard
and a tomb for centuries as a last visited home of the poet.

Urchins, playing around the gate, threw papers and stones inside the
temple.

I drew the white head of the powerful enchanting, feeling at once admiration and fear.

She stopped near the derelict monument.

- So far nothing more - he ordered -. You follow your path. I go to the top of Chiaia ... But
before we parted as good friends, I'm going to give his word not
to follow, not to importune with amorous, of not interfering in my
life.

Ulysses did not answer. Head down with a real disappointment. A disappointment was added the pain
of wounded pride.

The things he had imagined so different to when they saw for first time alone! ...

Freya took pity on her sadness.

- Do not be a child ... That will happen. Think business, think about
your family awaits back in Spain.

And the world is full of women: I'm not alone.

But Ferragut interrupted. Yes, it was the only ... The only! And he said with a conviction that
it brought back a smile of pity.

The tenacity of this man get sore.

- Captain, I know well. Are you a selfish, like all men. Your ship is detained in port for a fault,
should you stay a month on earth is on a trip to a woman who foolishly
agreed that he knew in the past, and says: "Superb opportunity to
pleasantly entertain the hassle of waiting ..."

If I believed, if he accepted their wishes, in a few weeks to get ready the ship, the hero of my
love, the champion of my dreams, the sea would be as a last salute, saying: "Goodbye, asshole!"

Ulysses protested vigorously. No: he desired that his vessel was never reassembled; estimated
with anguish the days remaining. If need be, leave him, staying forever in Naples.

- What do I have to do in Naples? - Interrupted Freya -. I am a bird of passage here, which same
as you.

We met in the seas of the other hemisphere, and we have to rediscover in Italy. Next time, if we
meet again, will be in Japan, Canada, on Cape ... Keep going, amorous shark, and let me go
mine.

Imagine that we are two ships are in a calm, miracles, exchange greetings,
wish for good luck, and then each away by his side, perhaps never
to be seen ever.

Ferragut shook his head. That could not be, he was not resigned to
losing seen again.

- Men! - She went on, more and more irritated
-. Everyone can imagine that things must be according to their whims.
"Because I want you, you should be mine ..." What if I do not want?
... What if I do not suffer the need to be loved? ... I can not live
in freedom, no other love than I am by myself? ...

Considered a disgrace
to be a woman. The men inspired envy for their independence. Could
stand aside and refrain from wearing life passions, and nobody come
to intrude on his retirement. Les was lawful to go everywhere, to
travel the world without her steps lead behind a trail of applicants.

-
You are nice to me, Captain. The other day I was glad to meet you:
it was an appearance of past. I saw in you the joy of my youth starting
to leave and melancholy of certain memories ... And yet, I'll end
by hate: I hear you, Argonaut heavy? ... I abhor because it serves
to friend, because only you know about the same thing, because it
is a character novel, a Latino, maybe interesting for other women,
but unbearable for me.

His face contorted with a gesture of contempt
and pity. "Ah, Latinos !...»

- All are the same, Spanish, Italian,
French. All were born to the same thing. Just found a desirable woman
to believe neglect of duty if they ask for your love and what comes
next ... Can not a man and a woman just be friends? Could not you
be a good comrade and treat him as a partner?

Ferragut protested
vigorously. No, I could not. He loved her, and after being repelled
cruelty, his love would grow. I was sure. 

A nervous tremor was sharp
and cutting Freya's voice. His eyes took on an unhealthy glow. He
looked at her companion as if it were an enemy whose death wish.

-
Well, you sepal. I hate those men hate them because I know them. I
would like death of them all, all! ... The evil they have done in
my life ... I would be immensely beautiful, the most beautiful woman
on earth and possess the talent of all the scholars concentrated in
my brain, and be rich and be a queen, that all men in the world, mad
with desire, come to bow down to me ... And I lift my feet with iron
heels, and would crush heads ... well ... Well! ...

Hit the sand
of the garden with the soles of their shoes short. A hysterical grimace
contorted his mouth.

- You might excuse him ... You, with all the
arrogance of the bully, is a naive simple. I can drop him to a woman
all kinds of lies ... believing you before. But to the others ...
Ay, to the other! ... How I hate them! ...

He looked towards the
palace of the aquarium, stretching his whiteness between the colonnade
of trees.

- I want to be - continued, thoughtful - one of those sea
animals that cut with pliers their legs ... they have in the arms
scissors, saws, pliers ... to devour their fellows and absorb everything
around them.

The two had been very shy of Ester since the morning's trials, and were at that moment sympathizing
with each other in a manner uncomplimentary to her. However, they slid down from their perch
and slowly answered her call.

Ester glanced up as they entered the storeroom, and then went on cutting her cheese, but speaking
in low, gentle tones:

"I want to tell you two how sorry I am that I spoke so crossly and unkindly to you this morning.
It was very wrong in me. I thought I never should displease Jesus so again, but I did, you
see; and now I am very sorry indeed, and I want you to forgive me."

Alfred looked aghast. This was an Ester that he had never seen before, and he didn't know what
to say. He wriggled the toes of his boots together, and looked down at them in puzzled wonder.
At last he faltered out:

"I didn't know your cheek ached till mother told me, or else I'd have shut the door right straight. Young and lively character, he loved the danger and perished for driving,
whatever they were the hardships experienced by those transported by chivalry derrocaderos as a child
in the cradle of wind.

Zayas grinding effect. Stacks of freshly mown honey cane sides closed almost free House of wits,
leaving only a passage for large enough, yes, by the side of Batey, or road that brought travelers.
We noticed a great shout and movement there, as inside than outside. Inside the mill mules passed
and repassed in front of the space precipitate open in turn, lashed mercilessly by black youths
ran couple of them for that sole purpose. In between that infernal racket distinctly heard the
rustle of reed bundles of other slaves naked from the waist up threw once and without rest
in the cylindrical mass of iron. Across the mill, although if it were over the din and clamor,
so to speak, the confused noises, no could see anything; impedíalo fully dense smoke mixed with
steam which indicated of the boiling cauldron, which was baked sweet cane juice and filled with immense
fragrant columns throughout the interior of the large laboratory.

Outside, a double row of carts, loaded or were near to that house, or away from vacuum in the
direction of the field or cutting cane, as they say, all pulled by a pair of no less thin oxen
to slow in their movements. Standing at the foot of each team walked the conductor or slave road, armed
with long goddaughter sharp spike of iron, and all along the double row of carts, and in one
direction and another opposite, rode his mule walker the white Bovero, also armed, but not rod, but
the essential leather, with which occasionally crossed the backs of black that I thought remiss
in using the iron goddaughter.

The making of the carts was left handed and primitive as you can imagine, the lubrication given
the shafts, so that squeaked constantly charged, the passage that the vacuum with excessive
clearance wheels and manga, about not ever save the perpendicular, was Whatever level the floor,
made a nasty jingle, continually hitting the sotrozos bilortas loose against an iron, and going
out of your site tables of the bed. For a long stretch in both directions, the sugar mill
and disappeared Guardarraya under thatched leaves and even useful pieces of cane dropped by carelessness,
excess loading or material default of the vehicles used in transportation. In this unfortunate
contributed waste as most drivers. As soon as he walked away the stockman a given point, the
driver immediately took advantage to take the load the piece of cane It seemed best, in which
event drew several others fell on the road and remained there to be trampled and crushed by the
carriages that were coming back. Did not care that, before is in his mouth at one end a piece of
cane and sucked her eager, while encouraging to steers unrhythmicity voices and repeated punctures
to draw blood from them: it can be in retaliation for the herdsman was jumping on their backs
with the pita, or call it art, the terrible whip.

Such scenes or other very similar to these were repeated in view of
the passengers, in step by Jabaco mills, Tibotibo, El Mariel or old
Escobar, Ríohondo and Valvanera.

Between the two plantations last mentioned, only a small sitiería sighted to the right side
of the road, that is, a group of thatched huts where some families poor grew a short piece of land
and raised animals. I could not given even the name of the village, since there, or for many miles
around, was no school or church. Sugar mills to produce not consent, usually in their immediate
vicinity, such symbols of progress and civilization.

To get rid of those bitter thoughts tried to separate the eyes of black soil, hard and dull,
like soft iron, road, and passed through top of the flowers and references light violet color
of the cane in season, to stumble in the blue where it joined the horizon with very dark summits
of the distant mountains.

But for more than a powerful motive was not possible to Isabel demanded that concentration the spirit
in his agony. Were as frequent abrupt undulations, the way though wide, necessarily distorted,
narrow and deep ravines, the most which had to pass by bridges made without art or strength,
with wood logs, or tables taken from the trunks of palm trees. She discovered, considerably to
her surprise, that she was falling into the habit of sitting down on a stair to rest ere she
had reached the top of the first flight; also, that she was sometimes obliged to stay her sweeping
and clasp her hands suddenly over a strange beating in her heart. But she laughed at her mother's
anxious face, and pronounced herself quite well, quite well, only perhaps a little tired.

Meantime all sorts of plans for usefulness ran riot in her brain. She could not go away on
a mission because her mission had come to her. For a wonder she realized that her mother needed
her. She took up bravely and eagerly, so far as she could see it, the work that lay around
her; but her restless heart craved more, more. She must do something outside of this narrow
circle for the Master. One evening her enthusiasm, which had been fed for several days on a
new scheme that was afloat in the town, reached its hight. He
was having fun with it. It was a playful cat and ferocious mouse prolonging the agony fallen
into their paws. In his mind spoke a brutal voice, as if they advise a homicide. "Today does not
happen! ... Not happen today !...», was repeated several times, ready to major violence out
of a situation he considered ridiculous.

And she, unaware of the thoughts of his companion, deceived by the stillness of her face still
talking to staring into the horizon, speaking softly, like if count
himself illusions.

The dominant as a momentary obsession draft live in one house of Possilipo,
all alone and live a life of monastic isolation with all the comforts
of modern life.

- And yet - he went - this environment is not conducive
to solitude, this landscape is for love.

Aging slowly two love each other, to the eternal beauty of the Gulf! ... Too bad that is not
never loved me! ...

This was an insult to Ulysses, he did express the aggression boiling at the bottom of his temper.
And him? ... Do not you love her and was willing to try with all kind of sacrifice? ...

The sacrifices as proof of love to this woman left cold, welcoming
them with a skeptical expression.

- All men have told me the same
thing - he added -, all promise to kill if they are loved ... and
most of them is but a phrase of passionate rhetoric.

And although they are killed really, what does this prove? ... Suicide is a resolution of one minute,
that does not place to repentance, a simple nerve burst, a gesture that is often thought in
what people say, with pride of the actor frivolous want to fall in good posture. I know what
that is. A man was killed by me ...

Ferragut, hearing the last words, shook his immobility.

A malicious voice sang on Brain: "I go three !...»

- I saw him dying - she continued - in a hotel bed. He had a red spot like a star the bandage on
his forehead: the hole in the pistol. Died clinging to my hands, swearing I loved and who had
been killed by me ... A painful scene, horrible ... And yet I'm sure he himself was deceived,
that I loved. He was killed by wounded vanity to see me away from him, for stubbornness, for
theatrical gesture, influenced by his reading ... He was a Romanian tenor. This was in Russia ...
I've been an artist a little time ...

The sailor wanted to express amazement that produced the various mutations of this existence
errant and mysterious increasingly showing a new side, but he restrained himself, for better hearing
advice cruel evil voice that spoke his mind ... The killing was not intended for her ... Quite
the contrary: his aggressiveness silently next examined as a victim. There was something in her
eyes when the deceased Triton discerned in the distant coast feminine
skirt and fleeting.

Freya went on.

- To kill is not a proof of love. All have promised me from the first words the sacrifice of
its existence. Men do not know another song ... Do not imitate them, Captain.

He was thoughtful for a long time. The rapidly advancing twilight. Medium amber sky was the
other half of Blue Night, which began to flash the first stars. The Gulf fell asleep beneath the leaden
cloak of the water, exhaling a mysterious freshness communicated
to the mountains and trees.

The whole landscape seemed to take on the fragility the crystal. The silent air trembled with
exaggerated loudness, repeating the fall of a Rowing boats, small as flies, which slid down
the Gulf Cup, extending female voices and invisible to chase in the
woods of heights.

The servants were from table to table placing candles encased in paper lanterns. The mosquitoes
and moths, revived by the twilight, buzzed around the flowers of light red and yellow.

Returned to her voice sounded in the twilight atmosphere, with the
same vagueness that if speaking in dreams.

- There is a greater sacrifice
than life, the only one who can convince a woman that is loved.

What is life for a man like you ... His profession endangers every day, and when it rests on
the ground I can risk it for the most trivial reason ...

He paused again and continued:

- The honor is better than life for some men, the respect, preservation
of their place.

I just convince a man who risked for me honor and position, descend to the bottom, without
losing its will to live ... That's a sacrifice!

Ferragut was alarmed by these words. What sacrifice would propose this woman? ... But keep
listening calmed down. It was all a hypothesis of his disordered
imagination.

"It's crazy," he said again in his brain inside the counselor.

- I have dreamed many times - she continued - with a man who stole from me, if he was killed
accurate, and was to spend the rest of his years in prison ... Thief Poor me! ... I live only for
him, going day and night next to the walls of his prison, spying
on the bars, working as a woman of the people to send good food to
my band ... That's love, cold and not lies, oaths drama of our world.

Ulises repeated his mental comment: "Definitely crazy." But this thinking is reflected in his
eyes so clearly, she guessed.

- Do not be afraid, Ferragut - he smiled -. I will not require such
a sacrifice.

All this I'm talking about is fantasy, imaginative inventions to
fill the emptiness in my soul.

Blame the wine, exaggerated our libations to the gods, which have now been without water ... Look!

He
pointed to a serious comic two empty bottles that occupied the center
of the table.

Had closed the night. In the endless dark sky twinkling eyes starlike. The vast gulf cup reflected
their sparkle like ice cream wisps.

Lanterns the restaurant drew purple spots on the tablecloth, looking around them the faces
of those who ate with violent contrasts of light and shadow. In the closed rooms escaped scandalous
kissing noises, persecution and falling furniture.

- Come on! - Freya ordered.

He resented the noise of vulgar orgy, as disgraced the majesty of the night. Needed moving, walking
in the dark, breathing the fresh air of mysterious gloom.

In the garden gate hesitate to offers of several coachmen.

Freya was the one who rejected their offers. He wanted to return to Naples on foot, following
the gentle descent of the road of Possilipo, after a long standstill in the restaurant. His
face was flushed and abuse red wine.

Ulysses gave her arm and began to advance in the shade insensibly
driven in initiated by the ease of going downhill.

Freya knew what this trip. At first steps the sailor told it with a kiss on the neck. I was
going to take advantage of all the bends of the road, from high in some places discovered to
descry the Gulf phosphorescent through the woods, the long shadow
areas, cut only occasionally to time by the lamps or lanterns public
carriages and trams ...

But this freedom thing and his companion
were accepted, she had taken the first step at the Aquarium.

In addition, she was sure of his serenity, which would keep the love in the limit she wanted
to set you ... And convinced of its power to react in time, abandoned
the same as a woman up.

Ferragut had never had an occasion as auspicious. An appointment was alone in the mystery of
night with a large space ahead of time.

The only thing annoying was the need march, to unite the hugs and
oaths of love relentless ambulatory activity.

She protested, coming out of his trance, every time I proposed love to sit roadside.

The hope was that Ulysses obeyed Freya, eager for swift action to Naples. Down in the light
curve surrounding the Gulf, was the hotel and saw the ocean as a
place of happiness.

- Say yes! - Whispered in her ear, cutting the
words with kisses -.

Say you will tonight! ...

She did not answer, abandoned in the arm that the captain had passed through his waist, leaving drag
as if half fainting, squinting and offering his mouth.

While Ulysses was repeated entreaties and caresses, the voice of his
brain victory.

"There! ... This is done! ... What matters is putting it in the hotel. "

They had walked about an hour and imagined that only a few minutes had elapsed.

On arriving at the gardens of the Villa Nazionale, near the Aquarium, they stopped for a moment.
There was more light and less people in the way of Possilipo. Fled the electric lights Caracciolo
road, reflecting in the sea pearl moons. Both instinctively they approached a bank, seeking the shade
of ebony trees.

Freya had suddenly calmed. He seemed irritated against herself for his neglect in progress. The
excitement from kissing, constantly renewed, had made him long for a delivery immediately, with the
exasperated desire ... To be close to the hotel now regained their
energy, as in the presence of a hazard.

- Goodbye, Ulysses!

Tomorrow we'll see ... I'm going to spend the night at the doctor.

The sailor pulled a little, with the flip of a surprise. "Was it a joke ?...» But no: no was questionable.
The tone of his words betrayed a strong resolution.

Humbly begged not to go away, gasped and sullen.

At the same time mental counselor told him bitterly: "It is making fun of you! ... It is high
time that this is over ... Make her feel your authority as a man. "And this voice had the same
timbre that Triton the deceased.

Suddenly thought of something violent, brutal, ignoble. Ulises fell upon her as if to kill her,
pressed in his arms, and two, made one body, fell on the bench panting, struggling. The shadow
tore the white flash of a wave of undergarments removed. But it only lasted a moment.

The vigorous Ferragut, trembling with emotion and desire, had only
half its strength.

Suddenly jumped back to two hands clutching a shoulder. Experienced pain excruciating, as if one had
just broken bones.

She had repelled an accurate working pressure of Japanese fencing, which uses the hands as weapons
irresistible.

- Ah ... this! - roared throwing the worst insults women.

And fell on her again, like a man, joining his loving desire a desire
mistreat, debasement, making her slave.

Freya awaits foothold ... Displaying the glacial brilliance of one of his eyes, Odysseus, not
knowing why, it was agreed Eye of the morning, the reptile partner dances.

In this raging bull attack was stopped by a simple touch on the forehead,
a tiny metal circle, a kind of frozen thimble which was based on his
skin.

Miró ... It was a small revolver, a nickel gleaming deadly toy. Had appeared Freya's hand out the
secret of their clothes, or perhaps from that bag of gold which content
seemed inexhaustible.

She put a finger on the trigger, he stared. It was evident familiarity with the gun in his
hand. Should not be the first time brought to light.

The indecisiveness of the ocean was brief. With a man, had taken over his claw hand menacing,
twisting it until it breaks, without his revolver inspire fear. But I had opposite to a woman
... And this woman was able to kill him, placing him in a while ridiculous
situation ...

- Withdraw, sir! - Freya ordered formal and threatening
tone, as if speaking to a stranger.

But it was she who eventually withdrew to see Ulises stepped back, being thoughtful and confusing.
He turned his back, while his hand disappeared from his revolver.

Before leaving muttered several words that could not understand Ferragut, looking at last time with
contemptuous eyes. They must be terrible insults, and uttered the same as in a mysterious language,
he felt deeply his contempt.

- No way ... It's over, is gone forever!
...

He said this several times before returning to the hotel, and
thought for a night's vigil cut in agonizing nightmares. Well into
the morning I awoke from slumber final the trumpets of the bersaglieri.

He
paid his bill in the manager's office and gave the last tip the doorman,
telling that a man hours after the ship would come to take your luggage.

I
was glad with the joy that forced the need to adapt to events. It
congratulated for their freedom, as if this freedom had conquered
voluntarily not be imposed for contempt of it. It hurt the memory
of the previous day, seeing ridiculous and rude. It was better not
to remember what happened.

He stopped in the street to throw a last
glance at the hotel. "Goodbye, albergo damn! ... Never see them again.
May it burn with all its inhabitants! "

Stepping on the deck of the
Mare Nostrum, their satisfaction was forced to rise. Only here could
live away from the complications and lies of terrestrial life.

All
people of the ship, in the weeks before the arrival of the disgruntled
feared captain, smiled now, as if they could see the sunrise after
a storm. Distributed good words and affectionate pats. The work of
rebuilding was going to end up Next ... Very good! I was happy. Return
soon to navigate.

Greeted in the kitchen Caragol Uncle ... This was
a philosopher. All women of the world worth to him what a good rice.
Ah, great man! ... Surely would get to them hundred years. And the
cook, flattered by so much praise, whose origin could not understand,
responded as always: "Yes, sir."

Toni, quiet, disciplined and family,
inspired him with no less admiration. His life was a life straight,
firm and smooth as the path of duty. When junior officers spoke presence
of noisy dinners to jump to the ground with women from different countries,
the pilot shrugged. "The money and the other should be retained for
home," said sententiously.

Ferragut had laughed at many times of
the virtue of his second, he walked hunched and sleepy for much of
the planet, without allowing any distractions to awaken with a voltage
overwhelming if the chances of career brought him to live a few days
at his home Navy. Asleep in Jesus--Awake to everlasting life." And that reminded her, as she
had no need to be reminded, of a letter with the seal unbroken, lying in her writing-desk--a
letter which she had promised to read this evening--promised the one who wrote it for her,
and over whose grave the moonlight was now wrapping its silver robe. Sadie felt strangely averse
to reading that letter; in part, she could imagine its contents, and for the very reason that
she was still "halting between two opinions," "almost persuaded," and still on that often fatal
"almost" side, instead of the "altogether," did she wait and linger, and fritter away the evening
as best she could, rather than face that solemn letter. Even when she turned resolutely from
the window, and lighted the gas, and drew down the shade, she waited to put every thing tidy
on her writing-table, and then, when she had finally turned the key in her writing-desk, to
read over half a dozen old letters and bits of essays, and scraps of poetry, ere she reached
down for that little white envelope, with her name traced by the dear familiar hand that wrote
her name no more. At last the seal was broken, and Sadie read:

"My Darling Sister:

"I am sitting to-day in our little room--yours and mine. I have been taking in the picture
of it; every thing about it is dear to me, from our father's face smiling down on me from the
wall, to the little red rocker in which he sat and wrote, in which I sit now, and in which
you will doubtless sit, when I have gone to him. I want to speak to you about that time. When
you read this, I shall have been gone a long, long time, and the bitterness of the parting
will all be past; you will be able to read calmly what I am writing. I will tell you a little
of the struggle. For the first few moments after I knew that I was soon to die, my brain fairly
reeled; It seemed to me that I could not. I had so much to live for, there was so much that
I wanted to do; and most of all other things, I wanted to see you a Christian. I wanted to
live for that, to work for it, to undo if I could some of the evil that I knew my miserable
life had wrought in your heart. Then suddenly there came to me the thought that perhaps what
my life could not do, my coffin would accomplish--perhaps that was to be God's way of calling
you to himself perhaps he meant to answer my pleading in that way, to let my grave speak for
me, as my crooked, marred, sinful living might never be able to do. My darling, then I was
content; it came to me so suddenly as that almost the certainty that God meant to use me thus,
and I love you so, and I long so to see you come to him, that I am more than willing to give
up all that this life seemed to have for me, and go away, if by that you would be called to Christ. 

One of those trips back and shock that compassion was looking at her, and later that of usual.
It was known in his eyes that he had cried a lot, and walked all night through the house here
and there do not know anything with art. At times he was as alleles, and sometimes Rush felt a
restlessness that would not let her stop at anything. I saw it, without noticing it, more than
twice, in the twilight of Carrejo, worn with both despair hands to his head, and heard her invoke
the same time, his voice hoarse and poorly mastered, the "God of mercy became great 'and'
Our Lady of the Snows, the mother gracious and loving. " He wanted to die of early death, if the
desire is not sinned, before witness "of EYU" and stain the sight of his eyes such an embarrassment.
I feared for his reason; and moved by a feeling of pity, I got out to meet her. Not shocked
the me, as usual in such cases, on the contrary, seemed to calm down a little and revive my
presence, and even noticed it and wants to tell me something. Taken by reason, I spoke first
to reassure her, then to explore, to discover the breed even those trance mysteries so distressing
that the put.

- Not now! Not now - I said after some hesitation - and when it can not more ... when yield load
of me too, estonces! Estonces! ... Nah, you and only ... And Carida of God Don Marcelo, who,
today, do not let these ghosts ná just me, the Lord your uncle ... Naide or if be could! ...

Turned
away from me with this and ran to lock herself in her room, returning
me to my uncle seriously worried and not knowing what to think of
those strange things.

Nothing happened, fortunately, which would have required the presence of the unhappy woman in
any part of the house that night. Which should be very terrible for it, because I hardly I
had risen up out of bed the next day, and why so early as the sun appeared like a ghost in my
room after I asked permission to do half opening door carefully. Her eyes were sunken and surrounded
by an aura Cinderella; seemed that he had sucked the juice few witches face, on which fell
by under the handkerchief tied around his head, strands of gray hair curled, she trembled dry
lips, and out of his throat and a hoarse voice squeaking. Sank down knees before me and asked
for all the saints in heaven who heard as confession.

- Because - I finally said, sobbing badly compressed and spasms throughout the body - I can not
hold the load, and it was time to rid of her or die debaju of eya.

I, first of all that is incorporated and to sit in a chair inside the door shut the cabinet,
I sat down I immediately next to the unhappy woman, and I started
to hear, as she wanted, after directing words of sympathy and encouragement.

XXV

Two

parties had the confession of Facia.

At first I said everything I knew Chisco by mouth: the story of his unhappy marriage with the rogue
baratijero against the will and the wise warnings of my uncle who was like his father and master.
 Where is all of a sudden, where the rigidity of winter makes it more desirable, is showing with
more pomp and din, which gives higher rate of self, which shines more benign the throne of
his glory, where it is most admire and which deserves to be admired.