Sitting on a log includes a deal of patience, with oftentimes cold feet and chattering teeth;
but, attended to faithfully and patiently, is quite as successful as chasing a deer all day
on tracking snow, while it can be practiced when the leaves are dry and no other mode of still
hunting offers the ghost of a chance. When a man is moving through the woods, wary, watchful
animals are pretty certain to catch sight of him. But let him keep perfectly quiet and the
conditions are reversed. I have had my best luck and killed my best deer, by practically waiting
hour after hour on runways. But the time when a hunter could get four or five fair shots in
a day by watching a runway has passed away forever. Never any more will buffalo be seen in
solid masses covering square miles in one pack. The immense bands of elk and droves of deer
are things of the past, and "The game must go."

CHAPTER VIII A Ten Days' Trip In The Wilderness--Going It Alone

ABOUT the only inducements I can think of for making a ten days' journey through a strong wilderness,
solitary and alone, were a liking for adventure, intense love of nature in her wildest dress,
and a strange fondness for being in deep forests by myself. The choice of route was determined
by the fact that two old friends and school-mates had chosen to cast their lots in Michigan,
one near Saginaw Bay, the other among the pines of the Muskegon. And both were a little homesick,
and both wrote frequent letters, in which, knowing my weak point, they exhausted their adjectives
and adverbs in describing the abundance of game and the marvelous fishing. Now, the Muskegon
friend--Davis--was pretty well out of reach. But Pete Williams, only a few miles out of Saginaw,
was easily accessible. And so it happened, on a bright October morning, when there came a frost
that cut from Maine to Missouri, that a sudden fancy took me to use my new Billinghurst on
something larger than squirrels. It took about one minute to decide and an hour to pack such
duffle as I needed for a few weeks in the woods.

Remembering Pete's two brown-eyed "kids," and knowing that they were ague-stricken and homesick,
I made place for a few apples and peaches, with a ripe melon. For Pete and I had been chums
in Rochester and I had bunked in his attic on Galusha Street, for two years. Also, his babies
thought as much of me as of their father. The trip to Saginaw was easy and pleasant. A "Redbird"
packet to Buffalo, the old propeller Globe to Lower Saginaw and a ride of half a day on a buckboard,
brought me to Pete Williams' clearing. Were they glad to see me? Well, I think so. Pete and
his wife cried like children, while the two little homesick "kids" laid their silken heads
on my knees and sobbed for very joy. When I brought out the apples and peaches, assuring them
that these came from the little garden of their old home--liar that I was--their delight was
boundless. And the fact that their favorite tree was a "sour bough," while these were sweet,
did not shake their faith in the least.

I stayed ten days or more with the Williams family and the fishing and hunting were all that
he had said--all that could be asked. The woods swarmed with pigeons and squirrels; grouse,
quail, ducks and wild turkeys were too plentiful, while a good hunter could scarcely fail of
getting a standing shot at a deer in a morning's hunt. But, what use could be made of fish
or game in such a place? They were all half sick and had little appetite. Mrs. Williams could
not endure the smell of fish; they had been cloyed on small game and were surfeited on venison.

My sporting ardor sank to zero. I had the decency not to slaughter game for the love of killing,
and leave it to rot, or hook large fish that could not be used. I soon grew restless and began
to think often about the lumber camp on the Muskegon. By surveyors' lines it was hardly more
than sixty miles from Pete Williams' clearing to the Joe Davis camp on the Muskegon. "But practically,"
said Pete, "Joe and I are a thousand miles apart. White men, as a rule, don't undertake to
cross this wilderness. The only one I know who has tried it is old Bill Hance; he can tell
you all about it."

Hance was the hunting and trapping genius of Saginaw Bay--a man who dwelt in the woods summer
and winter, and never trimmed his hair or wore any other covering on his head. Not a misanthrope,
or taciturn, but friendly and talkative rather; liking best to live alone, but fond of tramping
across the woods to gossip with neighbors; a very tall man withal and so thin that, as he went
rapidly winding and turning among fallen logs, you looked to see him tangle up and tumble in
a loose coil, like a wet rope, but he was better than he looked. He had a high reputation as
trailer, guide, or trapper and was mentioned as a "bad man in a racket." I had met him several
times, and as he was decidedly a character, had rather laid myself out to cultivate him. And
now that I began to have a strong notion of crossing the woods alone, I took counsel of Bill
Hance. Unlike Williams, he thought it perfectly feasible and rather a neat, gamey thing for
a youngster to do. He had crossed the woods several times with surveying parties and once alone.
He knew an Indian trail which led to an old camp within ten miles of the Muskegon and thought
the trail could be followed. It took him a little less than three days to go through; "but,"
he added, "I nat'rally travel a little faster in the woods than most men. If you can follow
the trail, you ought to get through in a little more'n three days--if you keep moggin'."

One afternoon I carefully packed the knapsack and organized for a long woods tramp. I took
little stock in that trail, or the three days' notion as to time. I made calculations on losing
the trail the first day and being out a full week. The outfit consisted of rifle, hatchet,
compass, blanket-bag, knapsack and knife. For rations, one loaf of bread, two quarts of meal,
two pounds of pork, one pound of sugar, with tea, salt, etc. and a supply of jerked venison.
One tin dish, twelve rounds of ammunition and the bullet-molds, filled the list, and did not
make a heavy load.

Early on a crisp, bright October morning I kissed the little fellows goodbye and started out
with Hance, who was to put me on the trail. I left the children with sorrow and pity at heart.
I am glad now that my visit was a golden hiatus in the sick monotony of their young lives and
that I was able to brighten a few days of their dreary existence. They had begged for the privilege
of sleeping with me on a shake-down from the first; and when, as often happened, a pair of
little feverish lips would murmur timidly and pleadingly, "I'm so dry; can I have a drink?"
I am thankful that I did not put the pleader off with a sip of tepid water, but always brought
it from the spring, sparkling and cold. For, a twelve-month later, there were two little graves
in a corner of the stump-blackened garden, and two sore hearts in Pete Williams' cabin.

Hance found the trail easily, but the Indians had been gone a long time and it was filled with
leaves, dim and not easy to follow. It ended as nearly all trails do; it branched off to right
and left, grew dimmer and slimmer, degenerated to a deer path, petered out to a squirrel track,
ran up a tree and ended in a knot hole. I was not sorry. It left me free to follow my nose,
my inclination and the compass.

There are men who, on finding themselves alone in a pathless forest, become appalled, almost
panic stricken. The vastness of an unbroken wilderness subdues them and they quail before the
relentless, untamed forces of nature. These are the men who grow enthusiastic--at home-- about
sylvan life, outdoor sports, but always strike camp and come home rather sooner than they intended.
And there be some who plunge into an unbroken forest with a feeling of fresh, free, invigorating
delight, as they might dash into a crisp ocean surf on a hot day. These know that nature is
stern, hard, immovable and terrible in unrelenting cruelty. When wintry winds are out and the
mercury far below zero, she will allow her most ardent lover to freeze on her snowy breast
without waving a leaf in pity, or offering him a match; and scores of her devotees may starve
to death in as many different languages before she will offer a loaf of bread. She does not
deal in matches and loaves; rather in thunderbolts and granite mountains. And the ashes of
her campfires bury proud cities. But, like all tyrants, she yields to force and gives the more,
the more she is beaten. She may starve or freeze the poet, the scholar, the scientist; all
the same, she has in store food, fuel and shelter, which the skillful, self-reliant woodsman
can wring from her savage hand with axe and rifle.

Only to him whose coat of rags
    Has pressed at night her regal feet,
    Shall come the secrets, strange and sweet,
Of century pines and beetling crags.

For him the goddess shall unlock
    The golden secrets which have lain
    Ten thousand years, through frost and rain,
Deep in the bosom of the rock.

The trip was a long and tiresome one, considering the distance. There were no hairbreadth escapes;
I was not tackled by bears, treed by wolves, or nearly killed by a hand-to-claw "racket" with
a panther; and there were no Indians to come sneak-hunting around after hair. Animal life was
abundant, exuberant, even. But the bright-eyed woodfolk seemed tame, nay, almost friendly,
and quite intent on minding their own business. It was a "pigeon year," a "squirrel year,"
and also a marvelous year for shack or mast. Every nut-bearing tree was loaded with sweet well-filled
nuts; and this, coupled with the fact that the Indians had left and the whites had not yet
got in, probably accounted for the plentitude of game.

I do not think there was an hour of daylight on the trip when squirrels were not too numerous
to be counted, while pigeons were a constant quantity from start to finish. Grouse in the thickets
and quail in the high oak openings, or small prairies, with droves of wild turkeys among heavy
timber, were met with almost hourly, and there was scarcely a day on which I could not have
had a standing shot at a bear. But the most interesting point about the game was--to me, at
least--the marvelous abundance of deer. They were everywhere, on all sorts of ground and among
all varieties of timber; very tame they were, too, often stopping to look at the stranger,
offering easy shots at short range, and finally going off quite leisurely.

No ardent lover of forest life could be lonely in such company and in such weather. The only
drawback was the harassing and vexatious manner in which lakes, streams, swamps and marshes
constantly persisted in getting across the way, compelling long detours to the north or south,
when the true course was nearly due west. I think there were days on which ten hours of pretty
faithful tramping did not result in more than three or four miles of direct headway. The headwaters
of the Salt and Chippewa rivers were especially obstructive; and, when more than half the distance
was covered, I ran into a tangle of small lakes, marshes and swamps, not marked on the map,
which cost a hard day's work to leave behind.

While there were no startling adventures and no danger connected with the trip, there was a
constant succession of incidents, that made the lonely tramp far from monotonous. Some of these
occurrences were intensely interesting, and a little exciting. Perhaps the brief recital of
a few may not be uninteresting at the present day, when game is so rapidly disappearing.

My rifle was a neat, hair-triggered Billinghurst, carrying sixty round balls to the pound,
a muzzle-loader, of course, and a nail-driver. I made just three shots in ten days, and each
shot stood for a plump young deer in the "short blue." It seemed wicked to murder such a bright,
graceful animal, when no more than the loins and a couple of slices from the ham could be used,
leaving the balance to the wolves, who never failed to take possession before I was out of
ear shot. But I condoned the excess, if excess it were, by the many chances I allowed to pass,
not only on deer but bear, and once on a big brute of a wild hog, the wickedest and most formidable
looking animal I ever met in the woods. The meeting happened in this wise. I had been bothered
and wearied for half a day by a bad piece of low, marshy ground and had at length struck a
dry, rolling oak opening where I sat down at the foot of a small oak to rest. I had scarcely
been resting ten minutes, when I caught sight of a large, dirty-white animal, slowly working
its way in my direction through the low bushes, evidently nosing around for acorns. I was puzzled
to say what it was. It looked like a hog, but stood too high on its legs; and how would such
a beast get there anyhow? Nearer and nearer he came and at last walked out into an open spot
less than twenty yards distant. It was a wild hog of the ugliest and largest description; tall
as a yearling, with an unnaturally large head and dangerous looking tusks, that curved above
his savage snout like small horns. There was promise of magnificent power in his immense shoulders,
while flanks and hams were disproportionately light. He came out to the open leisurely munching
his acorns, or amusing himself by ploughing deep furrows with his nose, and not until within
ten yards did he appear to note the presence of a stranger. Suddenly he raised his head and
became rigid as though frozen to stone; he was taking an observation. For a few seconds he
remained immovable, then his bristles became erect and with a deep guttural, grunting noise,
he commenced hitching himself along in my direction, sidewise. My hair raised and in an instant
I was on my feet with the cocked rifle to my shoulder-- meaning to shoot before his charge
and then make good time up the tree. But there was no need. As I sprang to my feet he sprang
for the hazel bushes and went tearing through them with the speed of a deer, keeping up a succession
of snorts and grunts that could be heard long after he had passed out of sight. I am not subject
to buck fever and was disgusted to find myself so badly "rattled" that I could scarcely handle
the rifle. At first I was provoked at myself for not getting a good ready and shooting him
in the head, as he came out of the bushes; but it was better to let him live. He was not carnivorous,
or a beast of prey, and ugly as he was, certainly looked better alive than he would as a porcine
corpse. No doubt he relished his acorns as well as though he had been less ugly, and he was
a savage power in the forest. Bears love pork; and the fact that the hog was picking up a comfortable
living in that wilderness, is presumptive evidence that he was a match for the largest bear,
or he would have been eaten long before.

Another little incident, in which Bruin played a leading part, rises vividly to memory. It
was hardly an adventure; only the meeting of man and bear, and they parted on good terms, with
no hardness on either side.

The meeting occurred, as usually was the case with large game, on dry, oak lands, where the
undergrowth was hazel, sasafras and wild grapevine. As before, I had paused for a rest, when
I began to catch glimpses of a very black animal working its way among the hazel bushes, under
the scattering oaks, and toward me. With no definite intention of shooting, but just to see
how easy it might be to kill him, I got a good ready, and waited. Slowly and lazily he nuzzled
his way among the trees, sitting up occasionally to crunch acorns, until he was within twenty-five
yards of me, with the bright bead neatly showing at the butt of his ear, and he sitting on
his haunches, calmly chewing his acorns, oblivious of danger. He was the shortest-legged, blackest
and glossiest bear I had ever seen; and such a fair shot. But I could not use either skin or
meat, and he was a splendid picture just as he sat. Shot down and left to taint the blessed
air, he would not look as wholesome, let alone that it would be unwarrantable murder. And so,
when he came nosing under the very tree where I was sitting, I suddenly jumped up, threw my
hat at him and gave a Comanche yell. He tumbled over in a limp heap, grunting and whining for
very terror, gathered himself up, got up headway and disappeared with wonderful speed-- considering
the length of his legs.

On another occasion--and this was in heavy timber--I was resting on a log, partially concealed
by spice bushes, when I noticed a large flock of turkeys coming in my direction. As they rapidly
advanced with their quick, gliding walk, the flock grew to a drove, the drove became a swarm--an
army. To right and on the left, as far as I could see in front, a legion of turkeys were marching,
steadily marching to the eastward. Among them were some of the grandest gobblers I had ever
seen, and one magnificent fellow came straight toward me. Never before or since have I seen
such a splendid wild bird. His thick, glossy black beard nearly reached the ground, his bronze
uniform was of the richest, and he was decidedly the largest I have ever seen. When within
fifty feet of the spot where I was nearly hidden, his wary eye caught something suspicious;
and he raised his superb head for an instant in an attitude of motionless attention. Then,
with lowered head and drooping tail, he turned right about, gave the note of alarm, put the
trunk of a large tree quickly between himself and the enemy, and went away like the wind. With
the speed of thought the warning note was sounded along the whole line and in a moment the
woods seemed alive with turkeys, running for dear life. In less time than it takes to tell
it, that gallinaceous army had passed out of sight, forever. And the like of it will never
again be possible on this continent.

And again, on the morning of the sixth day out, I blundered on to such an aggregation of deer
as a man sees but once in a lifetime. I had camped over night on low land, among heavy timber,
but soon after striking camp, came to a place where the timber was scattering and the land
had a gentle rise to the westward. Scarcely had I left the low land behind, when a few deer
got out of their beds and commenced lazily bounding away. They were soon joined by others;
on the right flank, on the left and ahead, they continued to rise and canter off leisurely,
stopping at a distance of one or two hundred yards to look back. It struck me finally that
I had started something rather unusual and I began counting the deer in sight. It was useless
to attempt it; their white flags were flying in front and on both flanks, as far as one could
see, and new ones seemed constantly joining the procession. Among them were several very large
bucks with superb antlers, and these seemed very little afraid of the small, quiet biped in
leaf-colored rig. They often paused to gaze back with bold, fearless front, as though inclined
to call a halt and face the music; but when within a hundred yards, would turn and canter leisurely
away. As the herd neared the summit of the low-lying ridge, I tried to make a reasonable guess
at their numbers, by counting a part and estimating the rest, but could come to no satisfactory
conclusion. As they passed the summit and loped down the gentle decline toward heavy timber,
they began to scatter, and soon not a flag was in sight. It was a magnificent cervine army
with white banners, and I shall never look upon its like again. The largest drove of deer I
have seen in twenty years consisted of seven only.

And with much of interest, much of tramping, and not a little vexatious delay, I came at length
to a stream that I knew must be the south branch of the Muskegon. The main river could scarcely
be more than ten miles to the westward and might be easily reached in one day.

It was time. The meal and pork were nearly gone, sugar and tea were at low ebb and I was tired
of venison; tired anyhow; ready for human speech and human companionship.

It was in the afternoon of the ninth day that I crossed the South Muskegon and laid a course
west by north. The traveling was not bad; and in less than an hour I ran on to the ruins of
a camp that I knew to be the work of Indians. It had evidently been a permanent winter camp
and was almost certainly the Indian camp spoken of by Bill Hance. Pausing a short time to look
over the ruins, with the lonely feeling always induced by a decayed, rotting camp, I struck
due west and made several miles before sundown.

I camped on a little rill, near a huge dry stub that would peel, made the last of the meal
into a Johnnycake, broiled the last slice of pork and lay down with the notion that a ten days'
tramp, where it took an average of fifteen miles to make six, ought to end on the morrow. At
sunrise I was again on foot, and after three hours of steady tramping, saw a smoky opening
ahead. In five minutes I was standing on the left bank of the Muskegon.

And the Joe Davis camp--was it up stream or down? I decided on the latter, and started slowly
down stream, keeping an eye out for signs. In less than an hour I struck a dim log road which
led to the river and there was a "landing," with the usual debris of skids, loose bark, chocks
and some pieces of broken boards. It did not take long to construct an efficient log raft from
the dry skids, and as I drifted placidly down the deep, wild river, munching the last bit of
Johnnycake, I inwardly swore that my next wilderness cruise should be by water.

It was in late afternoon that I heard--blessed sound--the eager clank, clank, clank of the
old-fashioned sawmill. It grew nearer and more distinct; presently I could distinguish the
rumble of machinery as the carriage gigged back; then the raft rounded a gentle bend, and a
mill, with its long, log boarding-house, came full in sight.

As the raft swung into the landing the mill became silent; a brown-bearded, red-shirted fellow
came down to welcome me, a pair of strong hands grasped both my own and the voice of Joe Davis
said earnestly, "Why, George! I never was so damned glad to see a man in my life!"

The ten days' tramp was ended. It had been wearisome to a degree, but interesting and instructive.
I had seen more game birds and animals in the time than I ever saw before or since in a whole
season; and, though I came out with clothes pretty well worn and torn off my back and legs,
I was a little disposed to plume myself on the achievement. Even at this day I am a little
proud of the fact that, with so many temptations to slaughter, I only fired three shots on
the route. Nothing but the exceptionally fine, dry weather rendered such a trip possible in
a wilderness so cut up with swamps, lakes, marshes and streams. A week of steady rain or a
premature snow storm--either likely enough at that season--would have been most disastrous;
while a forest fire like that of '56 and later ones, would simply have proved fatal.

Reader, if ever you are tempted to make a similar thoughtless, reckless trip--don't do it.

CHAPTER IX The Light Canoe And Double Blade--Various Canoes For Various Canoeists--Reasons
For Preferring The Clinker-Built Cedar

