   "A man must serve his time to every trade
   Save censure.  Critics all are ready made.
   Take hackney'd jokes from Miller, got by rote,
   With just enough of learning to misquote;
   A mind well skilled to find or forge a fault;
   A turn for punning--call it Attic salt;
   To Jeffrey go, be silent and discreet,--
   His pay is just ten sterling pounds per sheet;
   Fear not to lie, 'twill seem a sharper hit;
   Shrink not from blasphemy, 'twill pass for wit;
   Care not for feeling--pass your proper jest,--
   And stand a critic, hated yet caress'd."

Lowell retorted upon his enemies in the famous Fable for Critics. Swift, in his Battle of the
Books, revenges himself upon Criticism by describing her.  "She dwelt on the top of a snowy
mountain in Nova Zembla.  There Momus found her extended in her den upon the spoils of numberless
volumes, half devoured.  At her right hand sat Ignorance, her father and husband, blind with
age; at her left Pride, her mother, dressing her up in the scraps of paper herself had torn.
About her played her children Noise and Impudence, Dulness and Vanity, Pedantry and Ill-manners.
The goddess herself had claws like a cat.  Her head, ears, and voice resembled those of an
ass."  Bulwer (Lord Lytton) flew out against his critics, and was well laughed at by Thackeray
for his pains. Poets are known as the genus irritabile, and I do not know that prose writers,
artists, or musicians are less susceptible.  Most of us will remember Sheridan's Critic--

Sneer: "I think it wants incident."

Sir Fretful: "Good Heavens, you surprise me!  Wants incident!  I am only apprehensive that
the incidents are too crowded."

Dangle: "If I might venture to suggest anything, it is that the interest rather falls off in
the fifth act."

Sir Fretful: "Rises, I believe you mean, sir."

Mrs. Dangle: "I did not see a fault in any part of the play from the beginning to the end."

Sir Fretful: "Upon my soul the women are the best judges after all."

In short, no one objects to a favourable criticism, and almost every one objects to an unfavourable
one.  All men ought, no doubt, to be thankful for a just criticism; but I am afraid they are
not.  As a result, to criticize is to be unpopular.  Nevertheless, it is better to be unpopular
than to be untruthful.

   "The truth once out,--and wherefore should we lie?--
   The Queen of Midas slept, and so can I."

I am going to do a rather dreadful thing.  I am going to divide criticism into six heads. 
By the bye, I am not sure that sermons now-a-days are any better than they used to be in the
good old times, when there were always three heads at least to every sermon.  Criticism should
be--1. Appreciative. 2.  Proportionate. 3.  Appropriate. 4.  Strong. 5.  Natural. 6.  Bona fide.

1.  Criticism should be appreciative.

By this I mean, not that critics should always praise, but that they should understand.  They
should see the thing as it is and comprehend it. This is the rock upon which most criticisms
fail--want of knowledge.  In reading the lives of great men, how often are we struck with the
want of appreciation of their fellows.  Who admired Turner's pictures until Turner's death?
Who praised Tennyson's poems until Tennyson was quite an old man?  Nay, I am afraid some of
us have laughed at those who endeavoured to ask our attention to what we called the daubs of
the one or the doggerel of the other.  {5}This, I think, should teach us not even to attempt
to criticize until we are sure that we appreciate.  Yet what a vast amount of criticism there
is in the world which errs (like Dr. Johnson) from sheer ignorance.  When Sir Lucius O'Trigger
found fault with Mrs. Malaprop's language she naturally resented such ignorant criticism.