But Barnum had found his vocation, that of showman, and after a few unsuccessful ventures,
bought Scudder's American Museum, in New York City, and started out on a brilliant career.
It is interesting to note that the museum which Barnum purchased consisted in part of the curios
collected years before by Charles and Rembrandt Peale. Barnum added to it, was indefatigable
in securing curiosities, really created the art of modern advertising, and it was his proudest
boast that no one ever left the museum without having got his money's worth. He was one of
the first to realize that the best possible advertisement is a pleased customer, and he tried
honestly to keep his museum supplied with every novelty. The public soon came to appreciate
this, and perhaps his greatest asset was public confidence in his promises. People came to
believe that when Barnum advertised a thing, he really had it. But the most fortunate day in
all his life was that November day of 1842, when he discovered at Bridgeport, Connecticut,
the midget whose real name was Charles S. Stratton, but who was to become world-famous as General
Tom Thumb.

The story of Tom Thumb's success reads like a romance. He was quite young when Barnum got him,
and the showman took great pains with his education and training, for he wanted the midget
to appear a finished man of the world. He became a great public favorite, toured America and
Europe, was introduced to kings and princes and made a great fortune for himself and his exhibitor.
Barnum struck the apogee of his fortunes when he discovered another midget, Lavinia Warren,
who achieved a success scarcely less than Tom Thumb's. Indeed, she and the General fell in
love with each other and were married at Grace Church, and as General and Mrs. Tom Thumb were
perhaps the greatest drawing cards in the world. Another triumph of his career was his engagement
of Jenny Lind for a series of one hundred concerts, at a salary of a thousand dollars a night,
the receipts of the tour being over seven hundred thousand dollars.

Barnum had many ups and downs, which he met with an invincible optimism. His museum burned
down and he rebuilt it, but it soon burned down again. It was then that the idea occurred to
him to establish a travelling museum, exhibiting under a tent, and it was this idea which developed
into "The Greatest Show on Earth." It really was the greatest and its owner never spared money
in his endeavor to keep it so. Large-hearted, benevolent, a true entertainer, he will always
occupy a bright place in the memory of the American public.

       *       *       *       *       *

Perhaps no name in the history of America was ever more closely connected in the public mind
with money-making for its own sake than that of Russell Sage. It will be surprising news to
many, who knew him only as a money-lender on a large scale, that he started out on a public
career, as alderman, county treasurer, and finally as member of congress for two terms, from
1853 to 1857. He was the first person to advocate, on the floor of congress, the purchase of
Mount Vernon by the government. His career on Wall street began shortly after that, at first
in a small way; but before his death, he had developed into the greatest individual money-lender
in the world.

That was his whole life. He took no part in any political or charitable movement; he had no
interest in art, and he lived in the simplest manner. He used his wealth, not to procure enjoyment
for himself or other people, but to procure more wealth. He was saving to the point of miserliness;
he got the utmost he could out of his money; he never took a vacation--and dying, at the age
of ninety, left a fortune of many millions. He had no children and the whole fortune went to
his wife. She at once proceeded to bestow it in carefully-considered benevolences, so that
the Sage millions are to benefit humanity, after all. In fact, it is doubtful if any other
fortune, amassed by a single man, will, in the end, do so much good in the world as will this
of Russell Sage, for Mrs. Sage is devoting it to what may be called scientific charity, which
has for its object the universal betterment of mankind.

Mrs. Sage, who thus becomes one of the world's great philanthropists, was Margaret Olivia Slocum,
of Syracuse, New York, and was married to Mr. Sage in 1869. She was of a family in only moderate
circumstances, and was a school teacher previous to her marriage. The turn of the wheel made
her the wealthiest woman in the world, and she proceeded without delay to the carrying out
of the immense benevolent enterprises which she had doubtless long meditated.

The name of Cyrus West Field is so closely associated with his supreme achievement, the laying
of the first Atlantic cable, that we are apt to forget that he was in the beginning a manufacturer
and had amassed a considerable fortune before his attention was called to the possibility of
linking Europe to America by a telegraph line laid on the bottom of the Atlantic. It was under
A. T. Stewart that Field received his mercantile training, having gone to New York in 1834,
at the age of fifteen, from his home in Stockbridge, Massachusetts, and entering Stewart's
employ as a clerk.

He was an apt pupil, and before he was of age, owned an establishment of his own for the manufacture
and sale of paper. In this business, in the course of a dozen years, he had amassed a fortune
so considerable that he was able to retire from active charge of it, and to spend his time
in travel. It was in 1853 that the project of carrying a telegraph line across the Atlantic
ocean suggested itself to him during a conversation with his brother, who was interested in
building a line across Newfoundland. The more he considered and investigated the project, the
more feasible it seemed, and he proceeded to organize the New York, Newfoundland and London
Telegraph Company, himself taking one fourth of the capital stock, and interesting such other
capitalists as Peter Cooper, Moses Taylor, Chandler White and Marshall Roberts.

But the project which had appeared simple enough in theory and on paper, proved extremely difficult
of execution. If Field could have foreseen the thirteen years of constant anxiety which awaited
him, he would no doubt have hesitated to undertake it. It looked, at first, as though success
would crown his efforts almost at the outset, for in 1858, the laying of a cable was completed,
and for some days, messages were sent from one continent to the other. Then the signals began
to grow fainter and fainter, until they became imperceptible, supposedly from the water of
the ocean penetrating the cable covering.

At any rate, the work had to be done all over again, with little money on hand, and the coming
of the Civil War helped to make further progress impossible. Field visited Europe more than
twenty times in the effort to raise money for the enterprise and to keep it before the public,
but it was not until 1865 that another effort to lay the cable could be made. The "Great Eastern,"
the largest ship in the world, was secured, and began paying out the cable; but twelve hundred
miles from shore the cable parted and could not be regained, although every effort was made
to grapple it. So the vessel had to put back to England, and Field was confronted with the
heart-breaking task of raising even more money. He succeeded in doing so, and in 1866, another
expedition started out with a new cable. This time, it met with no serious misadventure, and
on July 27, telegraphic communication was re-established between England and America, and has
never since been interrupted.

That cable was the first of the hundreds which now encircle the globe. Congress presented the
bold adventurer with a gold medal and the thanks of the nation; John Bright pronounced him
"the Columbus of modern times, who, by his cable, has moored the New World alongside of the
Old"; the Paris exposition of 1867 gave him the grand medal, the highest prize it had to bestow;
and he received votes of thanks and medals and presents from all parts of the world.

In 1884, two other cables were laid across the Atlantic by John W. Mackay and James Gordon
Bennett, whose private property they remained. Mackay had had an adventurous career, and was
destined to be the founder of another of those great American fortunes which are the wonder
and admiration of Europe. He was born in Dublin, Ireland, in 1831, his father being another
of those sturdy Scotch-Irish of whom we have already had occasion to speak. He was brought
to New York at the age of nine; but his father died a short time thereafter and the boy was
thrown practically upon his own resources.

When gold was discovered in California in 1849, Mackay joined the crowd that rushed to the
new El Dorado, and for several years, he lived a typical miner's life, roughing it in the camps,
but gaining little except a thorough knowledge of mining. In 1860, some guiding spirit led
him eastward to Nevada; his fortunes there steadily improved, until he became one of the leading
men in the settlement, and in 1872, he made one of the most famous and romantic discoveries
in mining history, that of the famous Comstock lode, on a ledge of rock high in the Sierras,
under which Virginia City now nestles. So rich in silver was this great ledge of rock and its
enormous production added so greatly to the world's supply of silver that the market price
fell to a point where such countries as India and China, whose currency was on a silver basis,
were seriously embarrassed to maintain values. From one mine alone over $150,000,000 was taken
out. Mackay devoted himself personally to the superintendence of the mines, working in the
lower levels with his men, who idolized him.

       *       *       *       *       *

Let us turn for a moment to the career of another great fortune-builder, the man who was, perhaps,
the greatest freebooter the American financial world ever saw, who made his money by destroying
rather than building up, and whose wealth finally killed him--Jay Gould. Let us see if we can
get some sort of idea of the personality of this extraordinary man.

Born in 1836, a farmer's boy, with only such education as he could pick up, he managed to find
time to study surveying, and for two or three years was engaged in making surveys of various
New York counties. While thus engaged, he fell in with a wealthy and eccentric individual named
Zadock Pratt, who sent him to the western part of the state to select a site for a tannery.
He was soon doing a large lumbering business, first with Pratt and then in his own name; but
he sold out just before the panic of 1857, and soon after entered upon that career of speculation
in New York City which, in the end, made him the best-hated man in America.

Picture the man, small, only five feet six inches in height, with sallow skin and jet black
whiskers, his eyes dark and piercing, his whole personality, as one observer put it, "reminiscent
of the spider." His reputation was that of an unscrupulous and immoral rascal, who would not
hesitate to sacrifice his best friends, if need be. His war against Cornelius Vanderbilt for
control of the Erie was one of his typical operations--a war which, when he saw he was losing,
he won by issuing $5,000,000 worth of fraudulent stock. There was never any question about
the criminality of this proceeding, and Gould was forced to flee to New Jersey, where he spent
millions in corrupting courts and legislatures--millions, not taken from his own pocket, but
from the treasury of the Erie, of which he had control. He was ousted, at last, but not until
he had added $62,000,000 to the indebtedness of the road, of which amount it was asserted Gould
had pocketed $12,000,000.

The culminating feature of his career was his attempt to corner gold, which brought about the
famous Black Friday panic of 1869. The scheme, one of the most daring ever attempted by any
operator, came near success. Gould is said to have bribed the brother-in-law of President Grant
and to have persuaded the President himself not to release any of the government supply of
gold. He then succeeded in driving the price up to 162½, when suddenly the bubble burst. Gould,
himself, had been warned and succeeded in getting away with his immense profits, covering himself
at the expense of his associates, an act of treachery unprecedented even in the stock market.

These were only two of the remarkable operations which he engineered, and which need not be
given in detail here. The net result was a fortune of some seventy million dollars, and a reputation
for duplicity such as perhaps no man in America ever had before. It is only fair to Gould to
say, however, that he accomplished merely what most stock gamblers would like to accomplish,
if they could, and that outside of finance, he seems to have been an estimable man, faithful
to his wife, devoted to his children, and passionately fond of flowers. He made no gifts of
any consequence to charity during his life, nor did he make a single benevolent bequest in
his will; but one of his children, Helen Miller Gould, has more than atoned for this by practically
devoting her life and her fortune to charitable work. It is doubtful if there is a better-loved
woman in America to-day than Helen Gould, who has shown so notably how a life may be consecrated
to good works.

       *       *       *       *       *

The great marble palace which A. T. Stewart built on Broadway, in New York City, to house his
business, and which was, at the time, the largest building in the world devoted to a retail
business, is now occupied by another great merchant, who, starting from a beginning even smaller
than Stewart's, has built up a business many times as great. John Wanamaker, whatever the growth
of the country may be hereafter, will always remain one of America's most representative and
most successful men of affairs--both representative and successful because his business has
rested from the first on the principle of honest dealing, of making satisfied customers--in
a word, upon the altogether modern principle of "your money back, if you want it."

John Wanamaker was born in Philadelphia in 1838, a poor boy with his way to make in the world.
He received his education in the common schools, and at the age of fourteen, entered upon his
business career as an errand boy in a book store. From that, he got a clerkship in a clothing
store, and for some years acted as salesman, until he could save enough money to start a little
store of his own. This he was able to do in 1861, in partnership with a man named Nathan Brown,
and ten years later, he was sole owner of a prosperous and growing business. It was at about
this time that an idea occurred to him which was destined to revolutionize the retail business
of the larger cities of the country.

The idea was simply this: In the great cities, most shoppers have to travel a considerable
distance to get to the business centre, and must there waste time and energy going from one
store to another to make their purchases. Why not, then, combine all the representative retail
businesses into one store, so that the shopper could make all purchases under a single roof,
pay for them all at once, and have them all delivered at the same time? Moreover, why could
not one great business be conducted more cheaply, and so undersell, the small ones, since a
single executive staff would do for it, rent, delivery cost, and a hundred other fixed charges
would be reduced, to say nothing of the advantages of large buying, and the advertising which
every department would get from all the rest? The idea grew into a carefully-formulated plan,
and 1876 saw the start of the great Wanamaker department store, perhaps the most famous retail
business in the world.

Its tremendous success is an old story now, and it has found hundreds of imitators. Twenty
years after the opening of the Philadelphia store, another was opened in New York in the old
Stewart building, to which another building, four times as large, has recently been added.
Wanamaker from the first firmly believed in P. T. Barnum's old adage that "A satisfied customer
is the best advertisement," and he made every effort to see that none left the Wanamaker stores
unsatisfied. He also made it a rule that no visitor to his store should ever be urged to buy
anything; that every article of merchandise should be exactly as represented, and that any
purchase might be returned and the purchase money would be refunded without question. As a
result, Wanamaker got a reputation for fair dealing which proved his greatest asset.

One would think that the management of such a business would fully occupy any man, but Wanamaker
found time for many public and benevolent interests. He founded, in 1858, the Bethany Sunday
School, which has grown into perhaps the largest in the world and of which he has always been
superintendent; he has taken part in many movements for civic reform, and from 1889 to 1893
was postmaster general of the United States. He reorganized the service; set in motion the
rural delivery system, the greatest single improvement in its service the department has ever
made; and tried to secure a postal telegraph, a postal savings-bank, a parcels post and one-cent
letter postage. He was the first official to regard the service as a business pure and simple,
and if the reforms he suggested had been carried out, the United States postoffice would now
be a model for the world.

       *       *       *       *       *

The greatest banker and financier in America at the present day is undoubtedly J. Pierpont
Morgan, who, however, is known not so well for the millions he has accumulated as for the other
millions he has spent in collecting rare objects of art, until he has become the possessor
of a collection surpassing any ever possessed by another private individual. That much of this
will one day be bequeathed by its owner to the public there can be little doubt.

J. Pierpont Morgan is of a family of bankers. His father, Junius Spencer Morgan, was for many
years a partner in the great London banking house of George Peabody & Co., and on the retirement
of Mr. Peabody, succeeded him as the head of the business. There was never any doubt of the
son's vocation. Born in 1837, and carefully educated, he entered the banking house of Duncan,
Sherman & Co. at the age of twenty, and from that time, rose steadily, until he became the
head of the greatest banking house in the country. He has been largely concerned in the reorganization
of railways and the consolidation of industrial properties, and the magnitude of some of his
operations is fairly astounding. During the Cleveland administration, he floated a national
bond issue of $62,000,000; he marketed the securities of the United States Steel Corporation,
with a capitalization of $1,100,000,000; he secured American subscriptions aggregating $50,000,000
for the British war loan of 1901; he controls over fifty thousand miles of railway, and his
interests extend into practically every great financial enterprise in America. He has given
large sums of money for public enterprises in New York City, among them a million and a half
for a great lying-in hospital. He built the "Columbia," which twice defeated the "Shamrock"
in the races for the America's cup, and he has made many valuable gifts to the various museums
and libraries of New York City. The power he wields is enormous, but he wields it wisely and
legitimately, winning the respect, as well as the admiration of men.

       *       *       *       *       *

The greatest work of American men of affairs during the past half century has been the upbuilding
and extension of the railroad system of the country. The railroad mileage of the United States
at the present time is over three hundred and twenty-five thousand; the total cost of the railroad
equipment of the country reaches fourteen billion dollars and the yearly earnings average over
two and a half billions. They employ over a million and a half men, whose wages average three
million dollars a day--and, it may be added, they kill or injure nearly ninety thousand. But
that is a detail. With this vast development of the railroad business the names of some half
dozen men are so closely connected that the great systems of the country are generally known
as the Hill lines, the Harriman lines, the Vanderbilt lines, the Gould lines, and so on. Of
these men we shall try to tell something briefly here.

We have already related how Cornelius Vanderbilt secured control of the New York Central and
Hudson River roads, and added to these until he had secured an entrance into Chicago; and how
his son, William Henry Vanderbilt, added to this system until it became, and still remains,
one of the strongest in the country. We have told, too, of Jay Gould's ideas of railroad management,
which seem to have been to get the most out of it for Jay Gould. But when Jay Gould died, he
was caught, as it were, with thousands of miles of railroads on his hands. He left four sons,
George Gould, Edwin Gould, Howard Gould and Frank Gould, of whom George is the only one that
really counts. But he, with a real genius for railroad building, has developed the Gould lines
into a great system stretching from Buffalo and Pittsburgh southwestward to Chicago, Omaha,
Kansas City, Denver, Ogden, St. Louis, New Orleans, Galveston and away out to El Paso. These
lines have played a most important part in the development of the great Southwest, and it is
said that George Gould is already blazing a way to the Atlantic seaboard, as an outlet for
the mighty freight traffic which his lines control.

No man connected with railroad building in this country has had a more interesting or adventurous
career than James J. Hill. Born on a little Canadian farm in 1838, descended from the hardy
Scotch-Irish of whom we have spoken so often, his father died when he was fifteen years, and
he was left to his own resources. He found work as a wood-chopper, and one day, while he was
chopping down a tree a traveler stopped at the house to take dinner, hitching his horse to
the gate. The boy noticed that it was tired and fagged and carried it a bucket of water. This
attention pleased the traveler, and as he drove away, tossed the boy a Minnesota newspaper,
remarking, "Go out there, young man. That country needs youngsters of your spirit."

The boy read the paper with its glowing accounts of the new country, and the next morning,
walking to the tree he had been cutting he hit it one last lick for luck, and announced, "I've
chopped my last tree." That tree, it is said, bears to-day a great placard with the words,
"The last tree chopped by James J. Hill." It was the last one, for a day or two later the boy
started for St. Paul. He brought with him to the United States the lusty body, frugal instincts
and good principles of his Scotch-Irish ancestry, and, in addition to those, a self-confidence
and sureness of judgment destined to take him far.

He got employment as a shipping clerk in a steamboat office in St. Paul, and so took his first
lessons in transportation problems. Pretty soon he was agent for a steamboat line, then he
established a fuel and transportation business on his own account and managed it so well that
by 1873, he had accumulated a fortune of a hundred thousand dollars. There was in Minnesota
at the time a little railroad called the St. Paul & Pacific. It started at St. Paul, but it
stopped after it had got only a few hundred miles toward the Pacific. Hill decided to buy it.
The price was half a million, so he tramped back to Canada and persuaded the bank of Montreal
to let him have the $400,000 he needed. That was surely one of the most wonderful feats of
a wonderful career. The directors of the bank were severely criticised; men laughed at his
purchase, pointing out that the road had never paid, and prophesying that it never would pay.

Yet that Jim Crow road was the foundation of the Great Northern system, the Hill line, stretching
across Dakota and Montana to Puget Sound. Every man who went into the enterprise with Hill
now owns his stock in it as a free gift, for in the intervening years, the cost has been returned
to him in the shape of dividends and bonuses. It has never failed to pay regular dividends,
and has, perhaps, won public confidence more surely than any other in the country. For James
J. Hill has kept faith in the smallest detail with every man who ever entrusted a dollar to
his hands. The loyalty of the employes of the Great Northern has passed into a proverb, "Once
a Hill man, always a Hill man," and it is true. He knows his road as few other men do. Before
he bought the St. Paul & Pacific, he traveled over the route in an ox-cart, studying not only
the road, but the people along the way--there weren't many--and the resources of the country.
Before he extended his line to the Pacific, he went the whole distance on foot and horseback.

People laughed at him when he announced that he was going to extend his line to the Pacific.
No line had ever been built across the continent without a great subsidy from the government--to
secure a subsidy was always the first step; besides, it was believed that the country through
which the Great Northern was to extend would not even grow wheat, and the new road was promptly
dubbed "Hill's Folly." But in 1893, his line reached the Pacific. A few years later, the owners
of the great Northern Pacific were begging him to manage that road, too. For he had created
business for his road--a great market in the Orient to fill his west-bound freight cars, and
a great market in the eastern United States for Puget Sound lumber to fill his east-bound cars.
For remember no railroad can make money unless, after it has hauled a loaded car from one end
of the line to the other, it can find another load to put in that same car to haul back again.
Hill supplied the business and his story is the wonderful story of the development of the Great
Northwest.

       *       *       *       *       *

Which brings us to the Napoleon of the railroad world, E. H. Harriman. America has never seen
another quite like him. When the panic of 1901 was at its height and the financial world seemed
trembling in ruins about his head, he refused to break the corner, as he might have done, but
sat watching the tape, cool, quiet and calculating, while men failed, banks tottered, and his
own associates begged him to yield. For the ambition of this man knew no limitation. His kingdom
must stretch from sea to sea and from the lakes to the gulf.

His kingdom lay to the south of Hill's, for he ruled the Union Pacific, and between the two
men there was ceaseless war. Physically and mentally they were as far apart as two men could
be. Hill is a large man, with massive head and brow, and his eyes are steady and cool and brown,
his lips full and sensitive, his whole personality bespeaking force and decision. Quite different
was Harriman; a small, ordinary looking man, with glasses and a scraggy mustache, giving the
impression of nervous force rather than of power; an irritable man, easily angered; a fighter
clear through, but fighting sometimes when peace were wiser--that was Harriman.

Harriman was born at Hempstead, Long Island, the son of a clergyman with a large family and
a small income. The boy was renowned chiefly for his daily fights and for his aversion to study.
At the age of fourteen, he was put to work in a broker's office in Wall street, at eighteen
he had a partnership, at twenty-two he bought a seat on the stock exchange, and pretty soon
entered the railroad field by getting control of the Illinois Central. He at once inaugurated
a new policy. Before that time, the prevailing idea of railroad management was to run a road
as cheaply as possible and pay big dividends. Harriman's idea was that the biggest dividends
would be secured in the end by making a good road, and he proceeded to carry the idea out by
putting his road in the very pink of condition. And it paid.

That was the beginning. His great coup was the rebuilding of the Union Pacific. A railroad
with 7,500 miles of track, a giant crushed by its own weight, it had gone into a receivership
in the panic of 1893. For five years it stayed there, despite the utmost efforts of the giants
of finance to lift it out. Then Harriman got possession of it, and taking an engine and a car,
turned the train backward and, running in the day time only, went over the road mile by mile.
He decided that the road must be made a good road, and he told his executive committee that
he needed for his immediate necessities one hundred millions of dollars!

Well, he got the money and he got good men and went to work. The result was soon apparent.
Earnings grew, business increased, and the company's credit improved. Never before in the history
of railroading had there been such daring rebuilding. The line was levelled down to a maximum
grade of forty-one feet to a mile; two hundred and forty-seven feet were scaled off the top
of the Great Divide; millions of cubic yards of dirt and stone were blasted out and moved;
tunnels were drilled; and, finally, when the Southern Pacific, too, was acquired, a trestle
twenty-three miles long was built across Great Salt Lake, through water thirty feet deep, taking
railroad trains farther from land than they had ever yet been run, and shortening the road
forty-four miles. And the result? The gross earnings have risen to over $170,000,000 a year,
and $28,000,000 a year are distributed in dividends. Truly a transformation from the old water-logged
road which Harriman took over.

He had his reverses--he attempted to get hold of the Northern Pacific, but it slipped through
his fingers; the Burlington was cut out from under his guns, and so was the Rock Island. James
J. Hill outgeneraled him more than once, and he was never able to "get back" at Hill effectively.

With Harriman we shall close this chapter on men of affairs. Many others might have been noted.
In fact, none of the great industries of the country has been built up except by inspired work.
Armour and Cudahy and Swift made the packing business; Marshall Field built up a business in
Chicago rivalling Wanamaker's; August Belmont, William C. Whitney, Levi Leiter, Robert Goelet,
Pierre Lorillard, and a hundred others, amassed great fortunes. Yet there was nothing in their
career different to those of the men already considered in this chapter. They had a genius
for money-making. Each in some special field; but, beyond that, they did few memorable things.
And so we need not pause longer over them here, except to remark, that it is, in the main,
to such men as these, that America owes her great material prosperity.

SUMMARY

MORRIS, ROBERT. Born at Liverpool, England, January 20, 1734; came to America, 1747, and settled
at Philadelphia; delegate to Continental Congress, 1775-78; gave his credit to assist in financing
Revolution and elected superintendent of finance, 1781; organized Bank of North America, 1781;
member of Constitutional Convention, 1787; United States senator, 1789-95; died in debtor's
prison at Philadelphia, May 8, 1806.

ASTOR, JOHN JACOB. Born at Waldorf, Germany, July 17, 1763; came to America, 1783, and settled
at New York City; founded Astoria, at mouth of Columbia River, 1811; died at New York City,
March 29, 1848.

VANDERBILT, CORNELIUS. Born near Stapleton, Staten Island, New York, May 27, 1794; became chief
owner Harlem railroad, 1863, and of Hudson River and New York Central roads soon afterwards;
died at New York City, January 4, 1877.

STEWART, ALEXANDER TURNEY. Born near Belfast, Ireland, October 12, 1803; came to America, 1823,
and established drygoods business at New York City; died there April 10, 1876.

BARNUM, PHINEAS TAYLOR. Born at Bethel, Connecticut, July 5, 1810; opened Barnum's Museum in
New York City, 1841; managed Jenny Lind's concert tour, 1850-51; established "Greatest Show
on Earth," 1871; died at Bridgeport, Connecticut, April 7, 1891.

SAGE, RUSSELL. Born in Oneida County, New York, August 4, 1816; member of Congress, 1853-57;
established himself as broker and money-lender in New York City, 1863; died there, July 22, 1906.

FIELD, CYRUS WEST. Born at Stockbridge, Massachusetts, November 30, 1819; in paper business
in New York, 1840-53, retiring with a fortune; organized New York, Newfoundland & London Telegraph
Company, 1854; Atlantic Telegraph Company, 1856; laid Atlantic cable, 1866; first message over
it, July 29; died at New York City, July 12, 1892.

MACKAY, JOHN WILLIAM. Born at Dublin, Ireland, November 28, 1831; came with parents to America,
1840; went to California, 1850; discovered Bonanza mines, 1872; died, July 20, 1902.

GOULD, JAY. Born at Roxbury, New York, May 27, 1836; established himself as broker in New York
City, 1859; notorious for manipulations of various railroad and other securities, and for "Black
Friday"; died at New York City, December 2, 1892.

WANAMAKER, JOHN. Born at Philadelphia, July 11, 1838; established clothing house of Wanamaker
& Brown, 1861; established department store in Philadelphia, 1876, and in New York City, 1896;
Postmaster-General, 1889-93; founded Bethany Sunday School, 1858; president Philadelphia Y.
M. C. A., 1870-83.

MORGAN, JOHN PIERPONT. Born at Hartford, Connecticut, April 17, 1837; entered banking business,
1857, and developed present firm of J. P. Morgan & Co., largest private bankers of the United
States.

HILL, JAMES J. Born near Guelph, Ontario, September 16, 1838; removed to Minnesota, 1856; entered
transportation business; general manager St. Paul, Minneapolis & Manitoba Ry. Co., 1879-82;
president since 1883; built Great Northern, with steamship connection with Japan and China,
1883-93; president of Great Northern system since 1893.

HARRIMAN, EDWARD HENRY. Born at Hempstead, Long Island; entered Wall Street as clerk at age
of fourteen; entered New York Stock Exchange eight years later; was president and chairman
of the board of directors of the Union Pacific, Oregon Short Line, Southern Pacific, Texas
& New Orleans, and many other great railway systems; died near New York City, September 9, 1909.

CHAPTER X

INVENTORS

It is a curious fact that the men to whom the world owes most generally get the least reward.
The genius in art or letters is seldom recognized as such until long after he himself has passed
away--his life is usually embittered by derision or neglect. But, in the history of civilization,
the lot of no man has been harder or more thankless than that of the inventor. Poverty and
want have always been his portion, and even after he had won his triumph, had compelled public
recognition of some great invention, it was usually some one else who won the reward.

America has been especially strong in the field of invention. Indeed, practically all the great
labor-saving devices of the past century and more have originated here. "Yankee ingenuity"
has passed into a proverb, and a true one, for the country which has produced the steamboat,
the cotton gin, the sewing machine, the electric telegraph, the phonograph, the telephone,
the typewriter, the reaper and binder, to mention only a few of the achievements of American
inventors, may surely claim first place in this respect among the nations of the world. There
are few stories more inspiring than that of American invention, and as benefactors to their
race, the long line of American inventors may rightly rank before even the great philanthropists
whose careers are outlined elsewhere in this volume. Indeed, if we judge greatness by the benefits
which a man confers upon mankind, such men as Whitney and Howe and Morse and Bell and Edison
far surpass most of the great characters of history.

First of the line is Benjamin Franklin, whose many-sided genius gives him a unique place in
American history. His career has been considered in the chapter dealing with our statesmen,
but let us pause for a moment here to speak of his inventions. One of them, the Franklin stove,
is still in use in hundreds of old houses, and as an economizer of fuel has never been surpassed;
another was the lightning-rod. He introduced the basket willow, the water-tight compartment
for ships, the culture of silk, the use of white clothing in hot weather, and the use of oil
to quiet a tempest-tossed sea. From none of his inventions did he seek to get any return. The
Governor of Pennsylvania offered to give him a monopoly of the sale of the Franklin stove for
a period of years, but he declined it, saying, "That, as we enjoy great advantages from the
inventions of others, we should be glad to serve others by any invention of ours"--a principle
characteristic of Franklin's whole philosophy of life.

After Franklin, came Robert Fulton, the first man successfully to apply the power of the steam-engine
to the propulsion of boats. Everyone has heard the story of how, years before, the youthful
James Watt first got his idea of the power of steam by noticing how it rattled the lid on his
mother's boiling teakettle. From that came the stationary engine, and from that the engine
as applied to the locomotive. It remained for Fulton to apply it to water navigation.

Born in Lancaster County, Pennsylvania, of Irish parents, in poor circumstances, the boy received
only the rudiments of an education, but developed a surprising talent for painting, so that,
when he was seventeen, he removed to Philadelphia and set up there as an artist, painting portraits
and landscapes. He remained there for some years, and finally, having made enough money to
purchase a small farm for his mother, sailed for London, where he introduced himself to that
amiable patron of all American painters, Benjamin West. West, who was at that time at the height
of his fame, received Fulton with great kindness, and made a place in his house for him, where
he remained for several years.

Those years were not devoted exclusively to painting, for Fulton had developed an interest
in mechanics, secured a patent for an improvement in canal locks, invented a "plunging" boat,
a kind of submarine, a machine for spinning flax, one for making ropes, one for sawing marble,
and many others of minor importance. Finally abandoning art altogether, he went to Paris, where
he spent seven years with the family of Joel Barlow, conducting with him a number of experiments;
one series of which has developed into the modern submarine torpedo. He succeeded in interesting
the French government in his submarine experiments and constructed a boat equipped with a small
engine, with which, in the harbor of Brest, he seems actually to have made some progress under
water, remaining under on one occasion for more than four hours. But the French government
finally withdrew its support, and finding the British government also indifferent, Fulton sailed
for New York in December, 1806.

Here, he succeeded in interesting the United States government, which granted him $5,000 to
continue his submarine experiments, but interest in them soon waned, and Fulton turned his
whole attention to the subject of steam navigation. He had been experimenting in this direction
for a number of years, and, in conjunction with Chancellor Livingston, of New Jersey, had secured
from the legislature of New York the exclusive right and privilege of navigating all kinds
of boats which might be propelled by the force of fire or steam on all the waters within the
territory of New York for a period of twenty years, provided he would, by the end of 1807,
produce a boat that would attain a speed of four miles an hour. Fulton went to work at once,
the experiments being paid for by Livingston, and after various calculations, discarded the
use of paddles or oars, of ducks' feet which open as they are pushed out and close as they
are drawn in, and also the idea of forcing water out of the stern of the vessel. He finally
decided on the paddle-wheel, and, in August, 1807, the first American steamboat appeared on
the East River. A great concourse witnessed the first trial, incredulous at first, but converted
into enthusiastic believers before the boat had gone a quarter of a mile.

She was christened the "Clermont," and soon afterwards made a trip up the Hudson to Albany,
to the astonishment of the people living along the banks of that mighty river. The distance
of 150 miles, against the current of the river, was covered in thirty-two hours, and there
could no longer be any question of Fulton's success. A regular schedule between Albany and
New York was established, and the "Clermont" began that great river traffic now carried on
by the most palatial river steamers in the world.

After that, it was merely a question of development. More boats were built, improvements were
made, and every year witnessed an increase of speed and efficiency. In 1814, in the midst of
the second war with England, Fulton built the first steam ship-of-war the world had ever seen,
designed for the defense of New York harbor. This ancestor of the modern "Dreadnought" was
named "Fulton the First" in honor of her designer. She indirectly caused his death, for, exposing
himself for several hours of a bitter winter day, in supervising some changes on her, he developed
pneumonia and died a few days later. Could he re-visit the world to-day and see the wonderful
and mighty ships which have grown out of his idea, he would no doubt be as astonished as were
the people along the Hudson on that fall day in 1807 when they saw the "Clermont" making her
way up the stream against wind and tide.

The same year that Robert Fulton was born, another inventive genius first saw the light in
the little town of Westborough, Massachusetts. His name was Eli Whitney, and the work he was
to do revolutionized the industrial development of the South, paid off its debts, and trebled
the value of its lands. It did something else, too, which was to fasten upon the South the
system of negro slavery, resulting in the Civil War. But though he added hundreds of millions
of dollars to the wealth of his country, his own reward was neglect, indifference, countless
lawsuits and endless vexation of body and spirit.

Whitney's father ran a little wood-working shop where he made wheels and chairs, and there
the boy spent every possible hour. At the age of twelve, he made himself a violin, and his
progress was so steady, that by the time he was sixteen, he had greatly enlarged the business
and had gained the reputation of being the best mechanic in all the country round. He soon
discovered the value of education, and managed to prepare himself for Yale College, which he
entered in 1789, at the age of twenty-four--an age at which most men had long since graduated
and settled in life. But Whitney persevered, graduating in 1792, and almost immediately securing
a position as private tutor in a Georgia family, which was to change the whole course of his life.

Until he reached the South, he had never seen raw cotton, only a little of which, indeed, had
been raised in the United States. It had not been profitable because of the difficulty of picking
out the green cottonseed. To separate one pound of the staple from the seed was a day's work,
so that cotton was considered rather as a curiosity than as a profitable crop. Whitney was
impressed by the possibilities of cotton culture, could this obstacle be overcome, and devoted
his spare time to the construction of the machine upon which his fame rests. At last it was
done, and did its work so perfectly that there could be no question of its success. Experiments
showed that with it, one man, with the aid of two-horse power, could clean five thousand pounds
of cotton a day!

A patent was at once applied for and every effort made to keep the invention a secret until
a patent had been secured. But knowledge of it swept through the state, and great crowds of
people came to see the machine. Whitney refused to show it, and after much excitement, a mob
one night broke into the building where it was, and carried it away. Others were at once made,
using it as a model, and by the time Whitney had secured his patent, they were in successful
operation in many parts of the state.

That was the beginning of Whitney's trials. He had not enough money to produce machines rapidly
enough to meet the tremendous demand for them, and various rivals sprang up, some of them even
claiming the honor of the invention. Other gins were put on the market, differing from Whitney's
only in some unimportant detail, and plainly an infringement of his patent; but he had not
the means to prosecute their manufacturers. The result was, that after two years of disheartening
struggle, Whitney was reduced to bankruptcy.

The attitude of the South toward him caused him especial distress. "I have invented a machine,"
he wrote, "from which the citizens of the South have already realized immense profits, which
is worth to them millions, and from which they must continue to derive the most important profits,
and in return to be treated as a felon, a swindler, and a villain, has stung me to the very
soul. And when I consider that this cruel persecution is inflicted by the very persons who
are enjoying these great benefits, and expressly for the purpose of preventing my ever deriving
the least advantage from my labors, the acuteness of my feelings is altogether inexpressible."

Finally, the states of North and South Carolina voted him a royalty upon all the machines in
use, and this enabled him to pay his debts; but Whitney at last abandoned hope of ever receiving
from his invention the returns he had hoped for, and, turning his attention to other business,
received, in 1798, a contract from the United States government for 10,000 stand of arms. Eight
years were consumed in filling this contract. A contract for 30,000 stand followed, and so
many improvements in design and process of manufacture were made by Whitney that no other manufacturer
could compete with him.

The result of all this was that Whitney was enabled to end his life in comparative independence.
His last days were his happiest, and he found in the care and affection of a loving family
some consolation for the injustice and ingratitude which he had suffered.

       *       *       *       *       *

Sixteen years after the battle of Bunker Hill, a boy was born in a great frame house at the
foot of Breed's Hill, upon which that famous and misnamed battle was really fought. The boy's
father was a preacher named Jedediah Morse, and the boy was named Samuel Finley, after his
maternal great grandfather, the renowned president of Princeton College, and Breese, after
his mother's maiden name, so that he comes down through history as S. F. B. Morse. He received
a thorough schooling, graduating from Yale in 1807, and at once turned his attention to art.
We have already spoken of his achievements in that respect, which were really of the first
importance. He was an artist, heart and soul, but the whole course of his life was to be changed
in a remarkable fashion.

In the autumn of 1832, Morse, being at that time forty-one years of age, sailed from Havre
for New York in the ship Sully. It happened that there were on board some scientists who had
been interested in electrical development, and the talk one evening turned on electricity.
Morse knew little about it, except what he had learned in a few lectures heard at Yale; but
when somebody asked how long it took a current of electricity to pass through a wire, and when
the answer was that the passage was instantaneous, his interest was aroused.

"If that is the case," he said, "and if the passage of the current can be made visible or audible,
there is no reason why intelligence cannot be transmitted instantaneously by electricity."

The company broke up, after a while, but Morse, filled with his great idea, went on deck, and
at the end of an hour had jotted down in his notebook the first skeleton of the "Morse alphabet."
Before he reached New York, he had made drawings and specifications of his invention, which
he seems to have grasped clearly and completely from the first, although its details were worked
out only by laborious thought. It was necessary for him to earn a living, and not until three
years later was the first rude instrument completed. Two years more, and he had a short line
in operation, but it was looked upon as a scientific toy constructed by an unfortunate dreamer.
Finally, in 1838, Morse appeared before Congress, exhibited his invention and asked aid to
construct an experimental line between Washington and Baltimore. He was laughed at, and for
twelve years an extraordinary struggle ensued, Morse laboring to convince the world of the
value of his invention, and the world scoffing at him. His own situation was forlorn in the
extreme; for his painting was his only means of livelihood, and, absorbed as he was by his
great invention, he found painting utterly impossible. His home was a single room in the fifth
story of a building at the corner of Nassau and Beekman streets in New York City--a room which
served as studio, workshop, parlor, kitchen and bedroom. There he labored and slept, using
such money as he could earn for his experiments, and almost starving himself in consequence.

But at last the tide turned. He was appointed to a position in the University of the City of
New York, which provided him with better means for experiment, and in 1843, again appeared
before Congress. This time, he found some backers, and by a close vote, at the last hour of
the session, an appropriation of $30,000 was made to enable him to construct a line between
Washington and Baltimore. Wild with delight and enthusiasm, the inventor went to work, and
on the twenty-fourth day of May, 1844, the first message flashed over the wire, "What hath
God wrought!"

The wonder and amazement of the public can be better imagined than described. Morse offered
to sell his invention to the government for the sum of $100,000, but the Postmaster General,
a thickheaded individual named Cave Johnson, refused the offer, stating that in his opinion,
no line would ever pay for the cost of operation!

It was inevitable that rival claimants for the honor of the invention should crop up on every
side, but, after years of bitter litigation, Morse succeeded in defending his title, and honors
began to pour in upon him. It is worth remarking that the Sultan of Turkey, supposedly the
most benighted of all rulers, was the first monarch to acknowledge Morse as a public benefactor.
That was in 1848; but the monarchs of Europe soon followed, and in 1858, a special congress
was called by the Emperor of the French to devise some suitable testimonial to the great inventor.
But perhaps the most fitting testimonial of all were the ceremonies at the unveiling of the
Morse monument in New York City in 1871. Delegates were present from every state in the Union,
and at the close of the reception, William Orton, president of the Western Union Telegraph
Company, announced that the telegraph instrument before the audience was in connection with
every other one of the ten thousand instruments in America, and that, beside every instrument
an operator was waiting to receive a message. Then a young operator sent this message from
the key: "Greeting and thanks to the telegraph fraternity throughout the world. Then the venerable
inventor, the personification of dignity, simplicity and kindliness, bent above the key, and
sent out, "S. F. B. Morse." A storm of enthusiasm swept over the audience, and the scene will
never be forgotten by any who took part in it. The proudest boast of many an old operator is
that he received that message. Death came to the inventor a year later, and on the day of his
funeral, every telegraph office throughout the land was draped in mourning.

Although to Morse belongs all the credit for the invention of the telegraph, it should, in
justice to one man, be pointed out that it would have been impossible but for a discovery which
preceded it--that of the electro-magnet. To Joseph Henry, the great physicist, first of Princeton,
then of the Smithsonian Institution, this invention is chiefly due. We have already spoken
of Professor Henry's work in science, but none of it was more important than his invention,
in 1828, of the modern form of electro-magnet--a coil of silk-covered wire wound in a series
of crossed layers around a soft iron core, and in 1831, he had used it to produce the ringing
of a bell at a distance. It is this magnet which forms the basis of every telegraph instrument--is
essential to it, and is the foundation of the entire electrical art. Let it be added to this
great scientist's credit that he never sought to patent any of his inventions, giving them,
as Franklin had done, free to all the world.

The struggle which Morse made to perfect and secure public recognition of his telegraph and
the injustice shown Eli Whitney by the people of the South, were as nothing when compared with
the trials of that most unfortunate of all inventors, Charles Goodyear, whose story is one
of the most tragic in American annals. No one can read of his struggles without experiencing
the deepest admiration for a man who, at the time, was regarded as a hopeless lunatic.

Charles Goodyear was born at New Haven, Connecticut, in 1800. While he was still a child, his
father moved to Philadelphia and engaged in the hardware business, in which his son joined
him, as soon as he was old enough to do so. But the panic of 1836 wiped the business out of
existence, and Goodyear was forced to look around for some other means of livelihood. He had
been interested for some time in the wonderful success of some newly-established India-rubber
companies, and, out of curiosity, bought an India-rubber life-preserver. Upon examining it,
he found a defect in the valve, and inventing an improvement in it, he went to New York with
the intention of selling his improvement to the manufacturer. The manufacturer was impressed
with the new device, but told Goodyear frankly that the whole India-rubber business of the
country was on the verge of collapse, and indeed, the collapse came a few months later.

The trouble was that the goods which the rubber companies had been turning out were not durable.
The use of rubber had begun about fifteen years before, first in France in the manufacture
of garters and suspenders, and then in England where a manufacturer named Mackintosh made water-proof
coats by spreading a layer of rubber between two layers of cloth. Then, in 1833, the Roxbury
India-Rubber Company was organized in the United States, and manufactured an India-rubber cloth
from which wagon-covers, caps, coats, and other articles were made. Its success was so great
that other companies were organized and seemed on the highroad to fortune, when a sudden reverse
came. For the heat of summer melted wagon-covers, caps and coats to sticky masses with an odor
so offensive that they had to be buried. So the business collapsed, the various companies went
into bankruptcy, and the very name of India-rubber came to be detested by producers and consumers
alike.

It was at this time that Charles Goodyear appeared upon the scene--unfortunately enough for
himself, but fortunately for humanity--and determined to discover some method by which rubber
could be made to withstand the extremes of heat and cold. From that time until the close of
his life, he devoted himself wholly to this work, in the face of such hardships and discouragements
as few other men have ever experienced. He began his experiments at once, and finally hit upon
magnesia as a substance which, mixed with rubber, seemed to give it lasting properties; but
a month later, the mixture began to ferment and became as hard and brittle as glass.

His stock of money was soon exhausted, his own valuables, and even the trinkets of his wife
were pawned, but Goodyear never for an instant thought of giving up the problem which he had
set himself to solve. Again he believed he had discovered the secret by boiling the solution
of rubber and magnesia in quicklime and water, when he found to his dismay that a drop of the
weakest acid, such as the juice of an apple, would reduce an apparently fine sheet of rubber
to a sticky mass. The first real step in the right direction was made by accident, for, in
removing some bronzing from a piece of rubber with aqua fortis, he found that the chemical
worked a remarkable change in the rubber, which would now stand a degree of heat that would
have melted it before. He called this "curing" India-rubber, and after careful tests, patented
the process, secured a partner with capital, rented an old India-rubber works on Staten Island,
and set to work, full of hope. But commercial disaster swept away his partner's fortune, and
Goodyear could find no one else who would risk his money in so doubtful an enterprise.

Indeed, in all America he seemed to be the only man who had the slightest hope of accomplishing
anything with India-rubber. His friends regarded him as a lunatic, and especially when he made
himself a suit of clothes out of his India-rubber cloth, and wore it on all occasions. One
day a man looking for Goodyear asked one of the latter's friends how he would recognize him
if he met him.

"If you see a man with an India-rubber coat on," was the reply, "India-rubber shoes, India-rubber
hat, and in his pocket an India-rubber purse with not a cent in it, that's Goodyear."

The description was a good one, for that purse had been without a cent in it for a long time.
It was to stay empty for some weary years longer. For he had not yet discovered the secret
of making India-rubber permanent, as he found when he tried to fill a contract for a hundred
and fifty mail bags ordered by the government. The bags were apparently perfect, but in less
than a month began to soften and ferment and were thrown back on his hands. All his property
was seized and sold for debt; his family was reduced to the point of starvation, and friends,
relatives and even his wife joined in demanding that he abandon this useless quest.

Goodyear was in despair, for he had just made another discovery that seemed to promise success--the
discovery that sulphur was the active "curing" agent for India-rubber, and that it was the
sulphuric acid in aqua fortis which had wrought the changes in rubber which he had noticed
in his experiments. One day, while explaining the properties of a sulphur-cured piece of rubber
to an incredulous crowd in a country-store, he happened to let it fall on the red-hot stove.
To his amazement it did not melt; it had shrivelled some, but had not softened. And, at last,
he had the key, which was that rubber mixed with sulphur and subjected to a certain degree
of heat, would be rendered impervious to any extremes of temperature!

But what degree of heat? He experimented in the oven of his wife's cooking-stove, and in every
other kind of oven to which he could gain access; he induced a brick-layer to make him an oven,
paying him in rubber aprons; he grew yellow and shrivelled, for he and his family were living
upon the charity of neighbors; more than once, there was not a morsel of food in the house;
his friends thought seriously of shutting him up in an asylum; he tried to get to New York,
but was arrested for debt, and thrown into prison. Even in prison, he tried to interest men
with capital in his discovery, for he needed delicate and expensive apparatus, and at last
two brothers, William and Emory Rider agreed to advance him a certain sum. The laboratory was
built, and in 1844, Goodyear astonished the world by producing perfect vulcanized India-rubber
with economy and certainty. The long and desperate battle had been won!

Did he reap a fortune? By no means! In one way or another, he was defrauded of his patent rights.
In England, for instance, another man who received a copy of the American patent, actually
applied for and obtained the English rights in his own name. Worn out with work and disappointment,
Goodyear died two years later, a bankrupt. But his story should be remembered, and his memory
honored, by every American.

       *       *       *       *       *

Near a little mountain hamlet of central Sweden stands a great pyramid of iron cast from ore
dug from the neighboring mountains. It is set up on a base of granite also quarried from those
mountains, and bears upon it two names, Nils Ericsson and John Ericsson. The monument marks
the place where these two men were born. The life of the former was passed in Sweden and does
not concern us, but John Ericsson's name is closely connected with the history of the United
States.

He was the son of a poor miner, and one of his earliest recollections was of the sheriff coming
to take away all their household goods in payment of a debt. He was put to work in the iron
mines as soon as he was able to earn a few pennies daily, and he soon developed a remarkable
aptitude for mechanics. At the age of eleven, he planned a pumping engine to keep the mines
free from water, and at the age of twelve, was made a member of the surveying party in charge
of the construction of the Gotha ship canal, and was soon himself in charge of a section of
the work, with six hundred men under him, one of whom was detailed to follow him with a stool,
upon which he stood to use the surveying instruments. It reminds one of Farragut commanding
a war ship, at the age of eleven.

In 1826, at the age of twenty-three, he went to England to introduce a flame or gas-engine
which he had invented. He remained there for eleven years, and then a fortunate chance won
him for the United States. He had been experimenting with a screw or propeller for steamboats,
instead of the paddle-wheels as used by Fulton, and finally, equipping a small boat with two
propellers, offered the invention to the British admiralty. But the admiralty was skeptical.
The United States consul in Liverpool happened to be Francis B. Ogden, a pioneer in steam navigation
on the Ohio river. He was impressed with Ericsson's invention, introduced him to Robert F.
Stockton, of the United States navy, and on their assurance that the invention would be taken
up in the United States, closed up his affairs in England and sailed for this country.

His first experiment was disastrous--though through no fault of his. A ship-of-war called the
Princeton was ordered by the government and completed. She embodied, besides screw propellers,
many other features which made her a nine days' wonder. A distinguished company boarded her
for her trial trip, and it was decided also to test her big guns. But at the first discharge,
the gun burst, killing the secretary of state, the secretary of the navy, the captain of the
ship, and a number of other well known men. As a consequence, the experiment was stopped and
Ericsson was twelve years in securing from the government the $15,000 he had spent in equipping
the Princeton.

However, he was soon to render the country a service which will never be forgotten. In 1861,
he appeared before the navy department with a plan for an iron-clad consisting of a revolving
turret mounted upon an armored raft. He secured an order for one such vessel, to be paid for
only in the event that it proved successful. The majority of the board which gave the order
doubtless laughed in their sleeves as the inventor withdrew, for what chance of success had
such a vessel? There were some who even doubted whether she would float--among them her builders,
who took the precaution of placing buoys under her before they launched her four months later.

Of the voyage of the little craft from New York to Hampton Roads, and of her epoch-making battle
with the Merrimac we have already told. Ericsson had asked that she be named the "Monitor,"
as a warning to the nations of the world that a new era in naval warfare had begun, and that
she was well-named no one could doubt after that momentous ninth of March, 1862. Honors were
showered upon the inventor, whose great service to the nation could not be questioned. The
following ten years of his life were devoted to the construction of his famous torpedo-boat,
the "Destroyer," which, he believed, would annihilate any vessel afloat--the predecessor of
all the torpedo-boats, past and present, which have played so important a part in naval warfare.
He lived for more than twenty years in a house in Beach street, New York, where he died, in 1889.

The Monitor's attack upon the Merrimac would have been ineffective but for the remarkable guns
with which the little craft was armed--two eleven-inch rifled cannon, the invention of John
Adolph Dahlgren. Dahlgren had been connected with the ordnance department of the navy at Washington
for many years, and his inventions had revolutionized United States gunnery.

Dahlgren was born at Philadelphia, where his father was Swedish consul, a position which he
held until his death in 1824. The boy, from his earliest years, had been ambitious to enter
the navy, and finally, at the age of seventeen, received his midshipman's warrant. In 1847,
he was assigned to ordnance duty at Washington, and began that career of extraordinary energy,
which lasted for sixteen years. He saw almost at once the many defects in the cannon which
were at that time being manufactured, and soon offered a design of his own, which proved a
vast advance over old guns. The Dahlgren gun, as it was called, was of iron, cast solid, with
a thick breech adjusted to meet varying pressure strains. The invention of the rifled cannon
followed, and it was this weapon which caused even the great armored Merrimac to tremble. Admiral
Dahlgren's career was a distinguished one, but no service he rendered his country was more
noteworthy than this.

But there are triumphs of peace, as well as of war, and one of the most notable of these was
won by Cyrus Hall McCormick when he invented the automatic reaper which bears his name. In
1859, it was estimated that the reaper was worth $55,000,000 a year to the United States; William
H. Seward remarked that, "owing to Mr. McCormick's invention, the line of civilization moves
westward thirty miles each year"; and the London Times declared, after it had been tested at
the great international exhibition of 1851, that it was "worth to the farmers of England the
whole cost of that exhibition." To few men is it given to confer such benefits upon mankind,
and the career of this one is well worth dwelling upon.

Cyrus McCormick was born in 1809, in a little house at the hamlet of Walnut Grove, Virginia.
His father was a farmer, and was also something of a mechanical genius, and as early as 1816,
had tried to build a mechanical reaper. His son inherited this aptitude, and helped his father
in mechanical experiments, soon quite outstripping him. As a farmer's boy, his day's work in
the fields began at five o'clock in the morning, and in the harvesting season even earlier.
But in the harvest field, he found himself unable to keep up with grown men in the hard work
of swinging the scythe, and so devised a harvesting-cradle, which made the work so much easier
that he was able to do his share. At the age of twenty-two he invented a plough, which threw
alternate furrows on either side, and two years later, a self-sharpening plough, which proved
a great success.

Then he turned his attention to a mechanical reaper, though his father warned him against wasting
time and money on so impracticable a project. But the possibility of making a machine do the
hot hand-work of the harvest field fascinated the young man, and he set to work upon the problem.
It was not an easy one, for the machine, to be successful, must not only work in fields where
the wheat stood straight, but also where it had become tangled and beaten down by wind and
rain. In 1831, he produced his first practicable machine, making every part of it himself by
hand. Its three essential features have never been changed--a vibrating cutting-blade, a reel
to bring the grain within reach of the blade, and a platform to receive the falling grain.
The problem had been solved.

Three years, however, were spent in perfecting the minor working parts, then another was built
and tested. It worked well, but McCormick was still not satisfied with it, and not until 1840,
was it perfected sufficiently to make him willing to put it on the market. This self-restraint
was remarkable, but it had this good effect, that when the machine was finally offered to the
public, it was not an experiment. So there were no failures, but a steady increase in demand
from the very first, until the great factory, which McCormick early located at Chicago, now
turns out nearly two hundred thousand machines a year. The whir of these machines is heard
around the world--everywhere the McCormick reaper is doing its share toward lightening man's labor.

Another of the great victories of peace was won by Elias Howe, when, in 1844, he invented a
machine which would sew. Strangely enough, he was at first regarded as an enemy of humanity,
rather than as a friend; an enemy, especially, of the poor sewing-women who earned a pitiful
living with the needle. Few had the foresight to perceive that it was these very women whose
toil he was doing most to lighten!

Elias Howe, born in Spencer, Massachusetts, in 1819, as the son of a poor miller, and was put
to work at the age of six to contribute his mite to the support of the family. He was a frail
child and slightly lame, so that, after trying in vain to do farm labor, he went to work in
the mill, and afterwards in a machine shop, where he learned to be a first-class machinist--knowledge
which, at a later day, was to stand him in good stead. He married, at the age of twenty-one,
and three children were born to him. Then came a period of illness, during which the young
mother supported the family by sewing; and as Howe lay upon his bed, watching his wife at this
tedious labor, the thought came to him what a blessing it would be to mankind if a machine
could be devised to do that work.

The idea remained with him, and finally led to experiments. Of the many disappointments, the
long months of patient labor, the intense thought, the repeated failures, there is not room
to tell here; but at last he hit upon the solution of the problem--the use of two threads,
making the stitch by means of a shuttle and a needle with the eye near the point. In October,
1844, he produced a rude machine which would actually sew. Another year was spent in perfecting
it, while he kept his family from starvation by doing such odd jobs as he could find, and in
the winter of 1845, he was ready to introduce his machine to the public.

But here an unforeseen difficulty arose. The public refused to have anything to do with the
machine. The tailors declared it would ruin their trade, and refused to try it; nobody could
be found who would invest a dollar in it; and Howe, in despair, was forced to put his invention
away and to accept a place as railway engineer in order to support his family. Some disastrous
years followed, his wife died, and he was left in absolute poverty, but at last came a ray
of light. A man named Bliss became interested in Howe's invention, and a few machines were
made and marketed in New York. Riots among the workingmen followed, so serious that for a time
the use of the machines was stopped; but no human power could stay the wheel of progress, and
as the value of the invention came to be recognized, all opposition to it faded away. Howe's
royalties grew to enormous proportions, but he had been broken in health by his years of struggle
and hardship, and lived only a few years to enjoy them.

George Henry Corliss was another mechanical genius, who, in one respect, anticipated Howe,
for about 1842 he actually invented a machine for stitching leather. That was two years before
Howe made his discovery. But Corliss was soon attracted to other work, and the development
of the sewing machine was left for the other inventor. It was in 1846 that Corliss began to
develop those improvements in the steam engine which were to revolutionize its construction.
One trouble with the steam engine as then built was that it was not uniform in motion. That
is, if the engine was running a lot of machines their speed would vary from moment to moment,
as they were started or stopped. For instance, a hundred looms, all running at once, would
run at a certain speed, but if some of them were shut off, the speed of the others would increase,
so that it was very difficult to regulate them. Again, there was a tremendous waste of power,
so that the fuel consumption was out of all proportion to the power actually developed.

It was these defects that Corliss set himself to remedy, and he did it simply by taking a load
off the governor, which had always been used to move the throttle-valve. In the Corliss engine,
the governor simply indicated to the valves the work to be done, and the saving of fuel was
so great that the inventor often installed his engine under a contract to take the saving in
coal-bills from a certain period as his pay. One of his great achievements was the construction
of a 1400 horse power engine to move all the machinery at the centennial exposition at Philadelphia,
in 1876. The engine, which worked splendidly, was one of the sights of the exposition.

What the sewing-machine is to the needle, the typewriter is to the pen. No other one invention
has so revolutionized business, and the credit for the invention of a practicable typewriting
machine is due to C. Latham Sholes. Others had tried their hands at the problem before he took
it up, but he was the first to hit upon its solution--a number of type-bars carrying the letters
of the alphabet operated by levers and striking upon a common centre, past which the paper
was carried on a revolving cylinder.

Sholes had a varied and picturesque career. Born in Pennsylvania in 1819, he followed the printer's
trade for a number of years, and it was no doubt from the type that he got his idea of engraved
dies mounted on type-bars. Finally he removed to Wisconsin, where he edited a paper and soon
became prominent in the politics of the state, holding a number of appointive positions. It
was in 1866 that he began to experiment with a writing-machine, and his first one, which was
patented two years later, was as big as a sewing-machine. Still, it embodied the essential
principles of the typewriter as it is made to-day, and after spending five years in perfecting
it, Sholes made a contract with E. Remington & Son to manufacture it. It is one of the ironies
of fate that the name principally connected with the typewriter in the public mind is that
of the manufacturer, the identity of the inventor being completely lost, so far as applied,
at least, to the name of any machine.

       *       *       *       *       *

We have spoken elsewhere of the career of John D. Rockefeller, of the immense fortune he made
from petroleum and the manner in which he disposed of a portion of it. It is worth pausing
a moment to consider the career of the two men who discovered petroleum, who sunk the first
well in search of a larger supply, and who put it on the market. There is scarcely any development
of modern life to rank in importance with the introduction of kerosene. It added at once several
hours to every day, and who can estimate what these evening hours, spent usually in study or
reading, have meant to humanity?

In the early part of the century, whales were so plentiful, especially along the New England
coast, that whale, or sperm, oil was used for lighting purposes, and many of the old whale-oil
lamps are still in existence. The light they gave was dim and smoky, but it was far better
than no light at all. As the years passed, whales became more and more scarce, until sperm
oil was selling at over two dollars a gallon. Only the richest people could afford to pay that,
and the poor passed their evenings in darkness.

In 1854, a man named James M. Townsend brought to Professor Silliman, of Yale, a bottle of
oil, asking him to test it. This was done, and the astonished professor found that here was
an oil, whose source he could only guess, which made a splendid illuminant and which also seemed
to have some medicinal properties. The oil was from Oil Creek, Pennsylvania, and Townsend,
associating with himself a conductor named E. L. Drake, formed the Seneca Oil Company and began
gathering the oil by digging trenches. At first it was bottled and sold for medicinal purposes
at one dollar a gallon; then Drake suggested that a larger supply might be secured if a well
was bored for it. A man familiar with salt well boring was employed, and in 1859 the first
well was begun at Titusville.

Most people regarded Drake as a madman, and thought that he was simply throwing money away.
The work was costly and slow, and finally, when $50,000 had been spent without result, the
stockholders of the company refused to go further--all except Townsend. That enthusiast managed
to rake up another $500, which he sent to Drake, with instructions to make it go as far as
possible. It did not go very far--and yet far enough--for one day the auger, which was down
sixty-eight feet, struck a cavity, and up came a flow of oil to within five feet of the surface.
Pumping began at the rate of five hundred barrels a day, and fortune seemed in sight. But three
months later, the company's works were destroyed by fire, and before they could be rebuilt,
scores of other wells had been sunk, many of which were "gushers," requiring no pumping, and
the supply was soon so far in excess of the demand that the price of oil tumbled to one dollar
a barrel. Discouraged by all this, the Seneca Company sold out its leases and disbanded, leaving
Townsend and Drake poorer than they had been before their great discovery.

       *       *       *       *       *

Years ago, in 1790, to be exact, an Italian scientist named Galvani, experimenting with the
legs of a frog, happened to touch the exposed nerves with a piece of metal, while the legs
were lying across another piece. He was astonished to see the legs contract violently. Further
experiments followed, and the galvanic battery resulted. Years later, our own Professor Henry
discovered that if an insulated wire carrying a current of electricity was wrapped around a
piece of soft iron, the latter became a magnet. Out of these simple discoveries, came the electric
telegraph, and, still more wonderful, the telephone, by which the human voice may be instantly
projected hundreds of miles, not only intelligibly, but with every tone and inflection reproduced.
In an age of wonders, this is surely one of the greatest.

On February 14, 1876, two applications were made at the patent office at Washington for patents
upon the conveyance of sound by electricity. One was filed by Elisha Gray, the other by Alexander
Graham Bell. They were practically identical, but it was Bell's good fortune to be the first
to make his device practically effective, and so he may fairly be considered the inventor of
the telephone.

Alexander Graham Bell was born in Edinburgh, Scotland, in 1847, the son of the famous Alexander
Melville Bell, the inventor of the system by which deaf people are enabled to read speech more
or less correctly by observing the motion of the lips. The family moved to Canada in 1872,
and Alexander Bell came to Boston, where he soon became widely known as an authority in the
teaching of the deaf and dumb. The reproduction of the human voice by mechanical means interested
him deeply, and his study of the construction of the human ear, with its drum vibrating in
response to sound vibrations, gave him the idea of a vibrating piece of iron in front of an
electric magnet. He was, however, very poor and had no money to expend in experiments--so poor,
indeed, that when attacked by illness, his hospital expenses were paid by his employer, and
so friendless that during his illness no one visited him except two or three pupils from his
school.

He persevered with his experiments, with such rude apparatus as he could make himself, and
the first Bell telephone was brought into existence with an old cigar-box, two hundred feet
of wire, and two magnets from a toy fish-pond. In an improved form, it was shown at the Centennial
exhibition of 1876, where Sir William Thomson pronounced it "the greatest marvel hitherto achieved
by the electric telegraph." As is always the case, the public was slow to appreciate the importance
of the invention, and as late as 1877, Bell was unable to secure $10,000 for a half interest
in the European rights. The rapid growth of the business in this country is almost without
a parallel in history, and no invention has added more to the convenience of modern life.

       *       *       *       *       *

A distinguished scientist one day asked the late Clerk Maxwell what was the greatest scientific
discovery of the last half century, and Maxwell answered without an instant's hesitation: "That
the Gramme machine is reversible." Probably the whole scientific world will agree with him,
for that discovery meant that power will not only produce electricity, but that electricity
will produce power. Let us see how that has been applied. Falling water is one of the most
powerful agents in the world, and at a great waterfall like Niagara, millions of horsepower
go to waste every day. So at the foot of Niagara, great power-houses have been built where
the power of the water is converted into electricity. The electricity is conducted along wires
for hundreds of miles to the great industrial centres, and there converted back again into
power. In other words, the water of Niagara is to-day turning machinery in Buffalo and Albany.
The same method of producing power, the cheapest that has ever been discovered, is being installed
all over the world, and will, in time, produce a revolution in manufacturing processes.

The vital mechanism in the production of this power is the dynamo, and it is to Charles F.
Brush, of Cleveland, Ohio, that its development is principally due. He was interested in electricity
from his earliest years, and when he was only thirteen, distinguished himself by making magnetic
machines and batteries for the Cleveland high-school, where he was a pupil. During his senior
year, the physical apparatus of the school laboratory was placed under his charge, and he constructed
an electric motor having its field magnets as well as its armature excited by the electric
current. He devised an apparatus for turning on the gas in the street lamps of Cleveland, lighting
it and turning it off again, thus doing away with the expensive process of lighting them and
turning them out by hand.

After graduating from the University of Michigan with the degree of mining engineer, he returned
to Cleveland, where, in 1875, his attention was drawn to the great need of a more effective
dynamo than the clumsy and inefficient types then in use. In two months, Brush had made a dynamo
so perfect in every way that it was running until taken to the Chicago Exposition, in 1893.
Six months more of experimenting resulted in the Brush arc light, and in 1879 the Brush Electric
Company was organized. A year later, the first Brush lights were installed in New York City,
and now there is scarcely a town in the country which does not pay tribute to the inventor.

       *       *       *       *       *

Let us turn for a moment from the field of electricity, in which America has been pre-eminent,
to another in which Yankee ingenuity has also led the world--the railroad. It was in this country
that the sleeping-car, the diner, the parlor-car were first used; no other country affords
such luxury of travel; and no other country has added to railroading any device comparable
in importance to the invention of George Westinghouse, the air-brake. Before its introduction,
to stop a train brakes must be set painfully by hand, and even then were not always effective.
Now, the engineer, by pulling a single lever, sets the brakes instantly all along his train,
and so effectively that the passengers sometimes feel as though the train had struck a rock.
More than that, should any accident occur, breaking the train in two, the brakes are instantly
set automatically. All of which is done by the power of compressed air, working through a series
of pipes and air-hose beneath the cars.

George Westinghouse's father was superintendent of the Schenectady Agricultural Works, and
it was there that the boy found his vocation. Before he was fifteen, he had modelled and built
a steam engine, and followed that with a steel railroad frog, which was so great an improvement
over the frogs then in use that it was soon widely adopted, and brought the young inventor
both money and reputation. He moved to Pittsburgh, as the centre of the iron and steel business,
and began the manufacture of his frogs there.

One day he came across a newspaper account of the successful use of compressed air in the digging
of the Mont Cenis tunnel, in Switzerland, and the thought occurred to him that perhaps a railroad
train could be controlled by the same agency. He worked over the problem for a time, but when
he mentioned his idea to his friends, they were inclined to think it absurd to suppose that
a rubber-tube strung along under the cars could work the brakes effectively. However, Westinghouse
was not discouraged, but continued to experiment, and the air-brake as we have it to-day was
the result.

       *       *       *       *       *

Which brings us to the most remarkable genius in the field of invention the world has ever
known--the man who has made invention, as it were, a business, whose life has been devoted
to rendering practical and useful the dreams of other men, who has reduced invention to a science--Thomas
Alva Edison. There are some who are inclined to belittle Edison's achievements because some
of the greatest of them have been founded upon the ideas of others. He is best known, for instance,
as the inventor of the modern incandescent light; but the discovery that light may be obtained
from wire heated to incandescence in a glass bulb from which the air has been exhausted, was
made when Edison was only two years old. Experiments with this light were made by a dozen scientists,
but it remained a mere laboratory curiosity until Edison took hold of it, and with a patience,
ingenuity and fertility of resource, in which he stands alone, made it a practicable, efficient
and convenient source of light. That the incandescent light, as it is known to-day, is his
through and through cannot be questioned.

It is as a scientific inventor that Edison likes to be known. He abhors the word discoverer,
as applied to himself. "Discovery is not invention," he once said. "A discovery is more or
less in the nature of an accident, while an invention is purely deductive. In my own case,
but few, and those the least important, of my inventions, owed anything to accident. Most of
them have been hammered out after long and patient labor, and are the result of countless experiments
all directed toward attaining some well-defined object."

There is, however, one modern marvel for which Edison is wholly responsible, both for the initial
idea and for its practical working-out--the phonograph--but let us tell something of his early
life, before we relate the achievements of his manhood.

Born in a little village in Erie County, Ohio, in 1847, Edison was early introduced to the
struggle for existence. His father was very poor, being, indeed, the village jack-of-all-trades,
and living upon such odd jobs as he was able to procure. The boy, of course, was put to work
as soon as he was old enough, and of regular schooling had only two months in all his life.
At the age of twelve, he was a train-boy on the Michigan Central Railroad, selling books, papers,
candy, and fruit to the passengers. He managed to get some type and an old press and issued
a little paper called the "Grand Trunk Herald," containing the news of the railroad. One day,
he snatched the little child of the station-master at Port Clements, Michigan, from under the
wheels of a train, and in return the grateful father taught the boy telegraphy.

It was the turning-point in his career, for it turned his attention to the study of electricity,
with which he was soon fascinated. At eighteen, he was working as an operator at Indianapolis,
but he was from the very first, more of an inventor than an operator, and his inventions sometimes
got him into trouble. For instance, at one place where he had a night trick, he was required
to report the word "six" every half-hour to the manager to show that he was awake and on duty.
After a while, he rigged up a wheel to do it for him, and all went well until the manager happened
to visit the office one night and found Edison sleeping calmly while his wheel was sending
in the word "six." But he nevertheless developed into one of the swiftest operators in the
country, all the time devising changes and improvements in the mechanism of telegraphy.

His first great success came with the sale of an improvement in the instruments used to record
stock quotations, which enabled these "tickers" to print the quotations legibly on paper tape,
and this success enabled him to get some capitalists to finance his experiments with the electric
light. The arrangement was that they were to pay the expense of the experiments and to share
in such inventions as resulted. For the sake of quiet, he moved out to a little place in New
Jersey called Menlo Park, and built himself a shop. Then began that remarkable series of experiments--one
of the most remarkable in history--which resulted in the perfection of the incandescent lamp.

The problem was to find a material for the filament which would give a bright light and which,
would, at the same time, be durable, and with this end in view, hundreds and hundreds of different
filaments were tried. The difficulties in the way of this experimenting were enormous, since
the light only burns when in a vacuum, and the instant the vacuum is impaired, out it goes.
At one time, all the lamps he had burning at Menlo Park, about eighty in all, went out, one
after another, without apparent cause. The lamps had been equipped with filaments of carbon
and had burned for a month. There seemed to be no reason why they should not burn for a year,
and Edison was stunned by the catastrophe. He began at once the most exhaustive series of experiments
ever undertaken by an American physicist, remaining in his laboratory for five days and nights,
dining at his work bench on bread and cheese, and snatching a little sleep occasionally, when
one of his assistants was on duty. It was finally discovered that the air had not been sufficiently
exhausted from the lamps.

Again success seemed in sight, but soon the lamps began acting queerly again. Worn out with
fatigue and disappointment, Edison took to his bed. Ultimate failure was freely predicted,
and the price of gas stock rose again. In five months, the inventor had aged five years, but
he was not yet ready to give up the fight. And at last it was won, and the incandescent lamp
placed on the market. It has not displaced gas, as some people thought it would, but it is
the basis of a business which made the inventor sufficiently rich to realize his great ambition
of building himself the finest laboratory in the world; where the most expert iron-workers,
wood-workers, glass-blowers, metal-spinners, machinists and chemists in the world find employment.
Every known metal, every chemical, every kind of glass, stone, earth, wood, fibre, paper, skin,
cloth, may be found in its store-rooms, ready for instant use. The library contains one of
the finest collections of scientific books and periodicals to be found anywhere. These are
the tools, and with them Edison is constantly at work upon a great variety of problems.

The first thing he turned his hand to after his installation in his new laboratory was the
phonograph. The patient thought and experiment, extending over many years, lavished on this
wonderful invention are almost unbelievable. The idea had come to him years before, when he
had worked out an instrument that would not only record telegrams by indenting a strip of paper
with the dots and dashes of the Morse code, but would also repeat the message any number of
times by running the indented strip of paper through it.

"Naturally enough," said Edison, in telling the story, "the idea occurred to me that if the
indentations on paper could be made to give off again the click of the instrument, why could
not the vibrations of a diaphragm be recorded and similarly reproduced? I rigged up an instrument
hastily and pulled a strip of paper through it, at the same time shouting 'Hallo!' Then the
paper was pulled through again, and listening breathlessly, I heard a distinct sound, which
a strong imagination might have translated into the original 'Hallo!' That was enough to lead
me to a further experiment. I made a drawing of a model, and took it to Mr. Kruesi, at that
time engaged on piece-work for me. I told him it was a talking-machine. He grinned, thinking
it a joke; but he set to work and soon had the model ready. I arranged some tin-foil on it
and spoke into the machine. Kruesi looked on, still grinning. But when I arranged the machine
for transmission and we both heard a distinct sound from it, he nearly fell down in his fright.
I must admit that I was a little scared myself." The words which he had spoken into the machine
and which were the first ever to be reproduced mechanically, was the old Mother Goose quatrain,
starting, "Mary had a Little Lamb."

From that rude beginning came the phonograph, with which Edison has never ceased to experiment.
He has made improvements in it from year to year, until it has reached its present high state
of efficiency--a state, however, which Edison hopes to improve still further. In addition to
the two great inventions of the phonograph and incandescent lamp, which we have dwelt upon
here, many more stand to his credit. In fact, he has been the greatest client the patent office
ever had, nearly one thousand patents having been issued in his name. At the age of sixty-three,
he shows no sign of falling off in either mental or physical energy, and no doubt more than
one invention has yet to come from Llewellyn Park before he quits his great laboratory forever.

No one can ever guess at the future of electrical invention. The recent marvelous development
of the wireless telegraph, by which the impalpable ether is harnessed to man's service, is
an indication of the wonders which may be expected in the future. It was our own Joseph Henry
who, in 1842, discovered the electric wave--the "induction" upon which wireless telegraphy
depends. He discovered that when he produced an electric spark an inch long in a room at the
top of his house, electrical action was instantly set up in another wire circuit in the cellar.
After some study, he saw and announced that the electric spark started some sort of action
in the ether, which passed through floors and ceilings and all other intervening objects, and
caused induction in the wires in the cellar. But wireless telegraphy was made a commercial
possibility not by any great scientist, but by a young Italian named Marconi. Already experiments
with wireless telephony are going forward, and another half century may see all the labor of
the world performed by this wonderful and mysterious force which we call electricity.

       *       *       *       *       *

From earliest times, man has longed to navigate the air. He has watched with envy the free
flight of birds, and has tried to imitate it, usually with disastrous results. The balloon,
of course, enabled him to rise in the air, but once there, he was at the mercy of every wind.
More recently, balloons fitted with motors and steering gear have been devised, which are to
some extent dirigible; but the real problem has been to fly as birds do without any such artificial
aid as balloons provide.

