
And it's within two hundred miles of you--even now. And as far as I can see there's precious
little to prevent it coming nearer...."

Mr. Britling thought there were a few little obstacles.

"I've seen the new British army drilling in London, Mr. Britling. I don't know if you have.
I saw a whole battalion. And they hadn't got half-a-dozen uniforms, and not a single rifle
to the whole battalion.

"You don't begin to realise in England what you are up against. You have no idea what it means
to be in a country where everybody, the women, the elderly people, the steady middle-aged men,
are taking war as seriously as business. They haven't the slightest compunction. I don't know
what Germany was like before the war, I had hardly gotten out of my train before the war began;
but Germany to-day is one big armed camp. It's all crawling with soldiers. And every soldier
has his uniform and his boots and his arms and his kit.

"And they're as sure of winning as if they had got London now. They mean to get London. They're
cocksure they are going to walk through Belgium, cocksure they will get to Paris by Sedan day,
and then they are going to destroy your fleet with Zeppelins and submarines and make a dash
across the Channel. They say it's England they are after, in this invasion of Belgium. They'll
just down France by the way. They say they've got guns to bombard Dover from Calais. They make
a boast of it. They know for certain you can't arm your troops. They know you can't turn out
ten thousand rifles a week. They come and talk to any one in the trains, and explain just how
your defeat is going to be managed. It's just as though they were talking of rounding up cattle."

Mr. Britling said they would soon be disillusioned.

Mr. Direck, with the confidence of his authentic observations, remarked after a perceptible
interval, "I wonder how."

He reverted to the fact that had most struck upon his imagination.

"Grown-up people, ordinary intelligent experienced people, taking war seriously, talking of
punishing England; it's a revelation. A sort of solemn enthusiasm. High and low....

"And the trainloads of men and the trainloads of guns...."

"Liège," said Mr. Britling.

"Liège was just a scratch on the paint," said Mr. Direck. "A few thousand dead, a few score
thousand dead, doesn't matter--not a red cent to them. There's a man arrived at the Cecil who
saw them marching into Brussels. He sat at table with me at lunch yesterday. All day it went
on, a vast unending river of men in grey. Endless waggons, endless guns, the whole manhood
of a nation and all its stuff, marching....

"I thought war," said Mr. Direck, "was a thing when most people stood about and did the shouting,
and a sort of special team did the fighting. Well, Germany isn't fighting like that.... I confess
it, I'm scared.... It's the very biggest thing on record; it's the very limit in wars.... I
dreamt last night of a grey flood washing everything in front of it. You and me--and Miss Corner--curious
thing, isn't it? that she came into it--were scrambling up a hill higher and higher, with that
flood pouring after us. Sort of splashing into a foam of faces and helmets and bayonets--and
clutching hands--and red stuff.... Well, Mr. Britling, I admit I'm a little bit overwrought
about it, but I can assure you you don't begin to realise in England what it is you've butted
against...."

Section 15

Cissie did not come up to the Dower House that afternoon, and so Mr. Direck, after some vague
and transparent excuses, made his way to the cottage.

Here his report become even more impressive. Teddy sat on the writing desk beside the typewriter
and swung his legs slowly. Letty brooded in the armchair. Cissie presided over certain limited
crawling operations of the young heir.

