Our only hope, then, is in evolution.  We must replace the man by the superman.  It is frightful
for the citizen, as the years pass him, to see his own contemporaries so exactly reproduced
by the younger generation, that his companions of thirty years ago have their counterparts
in every city crowd, where he had to check himself repeatedly in the act of saluting as an
old friend some young man to whom he is only an elderly stranger.  All hope of advance dies
in his bosom as he watches them: he knows that they will do just what their fathers did, and
that the few voices which will still, as always before, exhort them to do something else and
be something better, might as well spare their breath to cool their porridge (if they can get
any).  Men like Ruskin and Carlyle will preach to Smith and Brown for the sake of preaching,
just as St Francis preached to the birds and St Anthony to the fishes.  But Smith and Brown,
like the fishes and birds, remain as they are; and poets who plan Utopias and prove that nothing
is necessary for their realization but that Man should will them, perceive at last, like Richard
Wagner, that the fact to be faced is that Man does not effectively will them.  And he never
will until he becomes Superman.

And so we arrive at the end of the Socialist's dream of "the socialization of the means of
production and exchange," of the Positivist's dream of moralizing the capitalist, and of the
ethical professor's, legislator's, educator's dream of putting commandments and codes and lessons
and examination marks on a man as harness is put on a horse, ermine on a judge, pipeclay on
a soldier, or a wig on an actor, and pretending that his nature has been changed.  The only
fundamental and possible Socialism is the socialization of the selective breeding of Man: in
other terms, of human evolution.  We must eliminate the Yahoo, or his vote will wreck the commonwealth.

X

THE METHOD

As to the method, what can be said as yet except that where there is a will, there is a way?
If there be no will, we are lost.  That is a possibility for our crazy little empire, if not
for the universe; and as such possibilities are not to be entertained without despair, we must,
whilst we survive, proceed on the assumption that we have still energy enough to not only will
to live, but to will to live better.  That may mean that we must establish a State Department
of Evolution, with a seat in the Cabinet for its chief, and a revenue to defray the cost of
direct State experiments, and provide inducements to private persons to achieve successful
results.  It may mean a private society or a chartered company for the improvement of human
live stock.  But for the present it is far more likely to mean a blatant repudiation of such
proposals as indecent and immoral, with, nevertheless, a general secret pushing of the human
will in the repudiated direction; so that all sorts of institutions and public authorities
will under some pretext or other feel their way furtively towards the Superman. One block book
and one only, so far as it is known, was to pictures. This was a grammar commonly known as our
Donatus, from its author with the good Roman Donatus of the century herself. The was the grammar
in Wallas use in the middle ages, when Latin was the foundation of all culture. It was, therefore,
very extensively used and it is supposed that more copies were printed of it than of any block
book. It has the further board of being the national block book is printed
on vellum. One thing at least is clear to begin with.  If
a woman can, by careful selection of a father, and nourishment of herself, produce a citizen
with efficient senses, sound organs, and a good digestion, she should clearly be secured a
sufficient reward for that natural service to make her willing to undertake and repeat it.