And the last time my dear brother left the house was to give me to his friend.  He was anxious
that I should be Clement's wife before he left me, and there was no fear that we should starve,
for, through trustworthy merchants, a small amount of the Darpent money had been transmitted
to him before the State laid hands on his property as that of a fugitive.  He might have bought
himself a share in one of the great trading houses, or have--which tempted him most--gone out
to the plantations in the new countries of Java or America; but Eustace prayed him to pledge
himself to nothing until he should hear from Harry Merrycourt, to whom my brother had sent
a letter before quitting Paris.

We would have had a quiet wedding, but Eustace was resolved, as he said, that all the world
should know that it was not done in a corner, and Madame van Hunker WOULD give the wedding
feast, and came to dress me for my bridal.  You know the dress:  the white brocade with hyacinth
flowers interwoven in the tissue--and when she had curled my hair after her fancy, she kissed
me and clasped round my neck the pearls of Ribaumont.  I told her I would wear them then to
please her and Eustace, and, in truth, I knew in my heart that I was the last true Ribaumont
bride that ever would wear them.  We were wedded in the chapel in Madame van Hunker's house;
and the Princess- Royal was there, and the Duke of York, and my Lord and Lady of Newcastle,
and I know not who besides--only remembering that they all knew how to treat Clement as a man
of distinction, who had, like them, given up all for conscience sake, and he, in his plain
lawyer's suit, with his fine, clear-cut face and grave eyes, looked, even in spite of his close-cropped
head, as veritable a gentleman as any of them.  The festivities ended the dinner, that being
as much as my brother was able for.  We went quietly back to our lodgings in Millicent's coach,
and Eustace went to rest on his bed, till she should have bidden farewell to her guests and
could come and sup with us; but he and Clement forbade me to take off my finery, for it tickled
their eyes.

And thus, when tidings came to the door that a gentlemen from England desired to see my Lord
Walwyn, Harry Merrycourt, after all these years of seeing nothing but sad-coloured Puritan
dames, came in upon this magnificent being in silvered brocade.

He said he thought he had stumbled on the Princess-Royal at least, and it was a descent to
hear it was only plain Mistress Darpent! Harry had a good wife of his own by that time, who
suited him far better than I should have done.  Indeed, I believe he had only thought of wedding
me to relieve my family from me. And when he saw how unlike M. Darpent was to all he had ever
thought or believed of Frenchmen, and heard how well he spoke English, and how he had borne
himself at Paris, he quite forgave me, and only thought how he could serve Eustace, the man
whom he had always loved beyond all others.

He was practicing law in London still, but he had had time to repent of having been on the
wrong side when he saw what it had come to, and had the Protector at the head of affairs. 
He said, however, that negotiations for peace with France were like to begin, and that Mr.
Secretary Milton was casting about for one learned in French law to assist in drawing the papers,
so that he had little doubt that Mr. Darpent would be readily taken into one of the public
officers in London.

Moreover, he said that the Walwyn property had been sequestered, but no one had yet purchased
it, and he thought that for a fair sum, it might be redeemed for the family.

When Eustace and Millicent found that I would not hear of keeping the pearls, declaring that
such things were not fit for a poor exiled lawyer's wife, Millicent said they had always felt
like hot lead on her neck.  To compound the matter, Eustace persuaded her to have the chaplet
valued by a Dutch jeweller, and to ask Margaret and Solivet, the guardians of the young Marquis
de Nidemerle, to purchase them for him.

To Margaret was left whatever of the property M. Poligny would spare, and if Gaspard should
have sons, one would bear the title of Ribaumont, though the name would be extinct.  So it
was fitting that the pearls should return to that family, and the fair value, as we hoped,
sufficed, in Harry Merrycourt's hands, to redeem, in my husband's name, the inheritance my
brother had always destined for me.

This was the last worldly care that occupied our believed brother. He said his work was done,
and he was very peaceful and at rest.  His strength failed very fast after Harry Merrycourt
came.  Indeed, I think he had for months lived almost more by force of strong will than anything
else, and now he said he had come to his rest.  He passed away one month after my wedding,
on the 16th of October 1652, very peacefully, and the last look he gave any one here was for
Millicent.  There was a last eager, brighter look, but that was for nothing here.

The physicians said he died of the old wound in the lungs received at Naseby, so that he gave
his life as much for the cause as my father and Berenger had done, though he had had far, far
more to suffer in his nine years of banishment.

We left him in a green churchyard by the waterside, and Millicent saying through her tears
that he had taught her to find comfort in her married life, and that he had calmed her and
left her peace and blessing now in the work before her.  And then we sailed with sore hearts
for England, which was England still to me, though sadly changed from what I had once known
it.  We had come to think that there was no hope of the right cause ever prevailing, and that
all that could be done was to save our own conscience, and do our best to serve God and man.
'The foundations are cast down, and what hath the righteous done?'

We were met by Harry Merrycourt, who had obtained the employment for Clement that he had hoped
for.  It was well, for, when Walwyn was repurchased, all our money had been sunk in it, and
enough borrowed to consume the rents for some years to come, and thus we had to live very frugally
in a little house in Westminster; but as for that, I was far happier marketing in the morning
with my basket on my arm, cooking my husband's supper, making his shirts, and by and by nursing
my babe, than ever I had been in all the stiff state and splendour of poor Margaret's fine
salons.  Camlet suits me better than brocade, and a basket of fresh eggs better than a gold-enamelled
snuff-box. While, though I did long to see the old home again, I knew it would be bare of those
who had made it dear, and, besides, it would be as well that M. Darpent should rub off as much
as might be of his French breeding before showing him among the Thistlewoods and Merrycourts,
and all the rest of our country-folk.  Moreover, after the stir of Paris he might have found
himself dull, and he had the opportunity of studying English law; ay, and I saw him yearly
winning more and more trust and confidence among those who had to do with him, and forming
friendships with Mr. John Evelyn and other good men.

So, when better times came round, and we had our King and Court back, on the very day of my
Harry's birth, M. Darpent was recommended to my Lord Clarendon as too useful a secretary to
be parted with, and therewith the great folk remembered that I came of an old Cavalier family.
Indeed Queen Henrietta had promised my mother and sister to seek me out, though may be she
would never have recollected it. After all it was the Duke of Gloucester who actually came
and found me, riding up to our door with only one gentleman, and he no other than good old
Sir Francis Ommaney.

