The deer is called a timid animal, and taunted with possessing courage only when he is "at
bay"; the stag will fight when he can no longer flee; and the doe will defend her young in
the face of murderous enemies. The deer gets little credit for this eleventh-hour bravery.
But I think that in any truly Christian condition of society the deer would not be conspicuous
for cowardice. I suppose that if the American girl, even as she is described in foreign romances,
were pursued by bull-dogs, and fired at from behind fences every time she ventured outdoors,
she would become timid, and reluctant to go abroad. When that golden era comes which the poets
think is behind us, and the prophets declare is about to be ushered in by the opening of the
"vials," and the killing of everybody who does not believe as those nations believe which have
the most cannon; when we all live in real concord,--perhaps the gentle-hearted deer will be
respected, and will find that men are not more savage to the weak than are the cougars and
panthers. If the little spotted fawn can think, it must seem to her a queer world in which
the advent of innocence is hailed by the baying of fierce hounds and the "ping" of the rifle.

Hunting the deer in the Adirondacks is conducted in the most manly fashion. There are several
methods, and in none of them is a fair chance to the deer considered. A favorite method with
the natives is practiced in winter, and is called by them "still hunting." My idea of still
hunting is for one man to go alone into the forest, look about for a deer, put his wits fairly
against the wits of the keen-scented animal, and kill his deer, or get lost in the attempt.
There seems to be a sort of fairness about this. It is private assassination, tempered with
a little uncertainty about finding your man. The still hunting of the natives has all the romance
and danger attending the slaughter of sheep in an abattoir. As the snow gets deep, many deer
congregate in the depths of the forest, and keep a place trodden down, which grows larger as
they tramp down the snow in search of food. In time this refuge becomes a sort of "yard," surrounded
by unbroken snow-banks. The hunters then make their way to this retreat on snowshoes, and from
the top of the banks pick off the deer at leisure with their rifles, and haul them away to
market, until the enclosure is pretty much emptied. This is one of the surest methods of exterminating
the deer; it is also one of the most merciful; and, being the plan adopted by our government
for civilizing the Indian, it ought to be popular. The only people who object to it are the
summer sportsmen. They naturally want some pleasure out of the death of the deer.

Some of our best sportsmen, who desire to protract the pleasure of slaying deer through as
many seasons as possible, object to the practice of the hunters, who make it their chief business
to slaughter as many deer in a camping season as they can. Their own rule, they say, is to
kill a deer only when they need venison to eat. Their excuse is specious. What right have these
sophists to put themselves into a desert place, out of the reach of provisions, and then ground
a right to slay deer on their own improvidence? If it is necessary for these people to have
anything to eat, which I doubt, it is not necessary that they should have the luxury of venison.

