With the trade came news, as usual. Across the seas at no great distance lay Denmark. Further
off yet was Britain, where the tin came from, and some gold. Now word came that in Denmark
a mighty king had arisen, who had conquered all England, in Britain, and was now ruling both
lands. Great was the wonder throughout all the Northland, for fierce were the fighters who
dwelt in Britain, and such a deed had never been done before. This was better than fighting
off pirates in the mouth of a vik, thought Ulf. Moreover, the pirates had ceased to come.

So Ulf welcomed the traders heartily, and gave them good bargains; and in return, while he
listened, they told him all they knew about the king, which was not much, to be sure. That
he was not a very young man was certain, for he had a son as old as Ulf. But they told one
strange thing about him at which all wondered. When the King was a young man of Ulf's age,
he was as fierce a warrior as ever held a shield, and toward the conquered was as relentless
as a wolf. They told wild tales of his cruelty then.

This was common enough in the world, and Ulf said nothing. But they went on to tell that which
to Ulf was indeed a very curious thing. When England lay at this fighter's feet, beaten, every
one expected as a matter of course that all the captured leaders would be killed, and all the
gold, and furs, and lands would be seized by the King for his own use. But nothing of the kind
happened! Instead, he began a rule so good-hearted, so fair and just to all, whether British
or Dane, and toward past enemies as well as toward friends, that his enemies were more than
half inclined to be friends. The country was growing rich in cattle, and was better to live
in than ever before,--indeed quite like Sigurd's Vik in that respect, a state of things natural
enough where a Sigurd ruled, but not at all where a Knut did,--for Knut or Canute, as it is
sometimes written, was this new king's name.

Lastly, strangest of all, this wild warrior, yet mild-ruling king, had proclaimed throughout
the land that he no longer believed in Thor, nor Odin, nor the other cruel gods of the North,
but declared that they did not even exist! He worshipped, they said, one God only, a merciful
One, who did not love bloodshed and murder, for which reason there should be none of it throughout
the kingdom. And there was very little of it indeed. Men knew so well what the King himself
had done in that line, in the past, that they were in no hurry to disobey him now, lest perhaps
they might find that he had forgotten nothing of his oldtime handy use of battle-axe. So there
was peace from one end of the country to the other.

Now, Edith Fairhair sat in the highseat when this was told, and she became very curious about
it. Ulf sat silently by, with his chin in his hand, with the firelight flashing from his mail,
and listened. When the tale was told, and they were alone, they looked into each other's eyes,
and both laughed softly, each reading the same thought.

"Would'st care to go, Edith?"

"Far hast thou sailed, Ulf, and much hast thou seen. Yet Vik-mouth is as far as I have travelled.
I would like to see that fair land."

"There may be storms," he said, teasingly.

"I like storms."

"There may be pirates on the way." And his face grew sober.

"I am Sigurd's daughter, and the wife of Ulf," was the proud reply.

