"For myself, I have resolved to go up, at any rate, as far as Asouan and the first cataract.
I had thought of acceding to the wishes of a party who are going across the Great Desert by
Mount Sinai to Jerusalem; but the kindness of yourself and Mrs. Damer is so great, and the
prospect of joining in your boat is so pleasurable, that I have made up my mind to accept your
very kind offer."

This, it will be acknowledged, was bold on the part of Miss Dawkins; but what will not audacity
effect?  To use the slang of modern language, cheek carries everything nowadays.  And whatever
may have been Miss Dawkins's deficiencies, in this virtue she was not deficient.

"I have made up my mind to accept your very kind offer," she said, shining on Mr. Damer with
her blandest smile.

What was a stout, breathless, perspiring, middle-aged gentleman to do under such circumstances?
Mr. Damer was a man who, in most matters, had his own way.  That his wife should have given
such an invitation without consulting him, was, he knew, quite impossible.  She would as soon
have thought of asking all those Arab guides to accompany them. Nor was it to be thought of
that he should allow himself to be kidnapped into such an arrangement by the impudence of any
Miss Dawkins.  But there was, he felt, a difficulty in answering such a proposition from a
young lady with a direct negative, especially while he was so scant of breath.  So he wiped
his brow again, and looked at her.

"But I can only agree to this on one understanding," continued Miss Dawkins, "and that is,
that I am allowed to defray my own full share of the expense of the journey."

Upon hearing this Mr. Damer thought that he saw his way out of the wood.  "Wherever I go, Miss
Dawkins, I am always the paymaster myself," and this he contrived to say with some sternness,
palpitating though he still was; and the sternness which was deficient in his voice he endeavoured
to put into his countenance.

But he did not know Miss Dawkins.  "Oh, Mr. Damer," she said, and as she spoke her smile became
almost blander than it was before; "oh, Mr. Damer, I could not think of suffering you to be
so liberal; I could not, indeed.  But I shall be quite content that you should pay everything,
and let me settle with you in one sum afterwards."

Mr. Damer's breath was now rather more under his own command.  "I am afraid, Miss Dawkins,"
he said, "that Mrs. Damer's weak state of health will not admit of such an arrangement."

"What, about the paying?"

"Not only as to that, but we are a family party, Miss Dawkins; and great as would be the benefit
of your society to all of us, in Mrs. Damer's present state of health, I am afraid--in short,
you would not find it agreeable.--And therefore--" this he added, seeing that she was still
about to persevere--"I fear that we must forego the advantage you offer."

And then, looking into his face, Miss Dawkins did perceive that even her audacity would not
prevail.

"Oh, very well," she said, and moving from the stone on which she had been sitting, she walked
off, carrying her head very high, to a corner of the Pyramid from which she could look forth
alone towards the sands of Libya.

In the mean time another little overture was being made on the top of the same Pyramid,--an
overture which was not received quite in the same spirit.  While Mr. Damer was recovering his
breath for the sake of answering Miss Dawkins, Miss Damer had walked to the further corner
of the square platform on which they were placed, and there sat herself down with her face
turned towards Cairo.  Perhaps it was not singular that Mr. Ingram should have followed her.

This would have been very well if a dozen Arabs had not also followed them.  But as this was
the case, Mr. Ingram had to play his game under some difficulty.  He had no sooner seated himself
beside her than they came and stood directly in front of the seat, shutting out the view, and
by no means improving the fragrance of the air around them.

"And this, then, Miss Damer, will be our last excursion together," he said, in his tenderest,
softest tone.

"De good Englishman will gib de poor Arab one little backsheish," said an Arab, putting out
his hand and shaking Mr. Ingram's shoulder.

"Yes, yes, yes; him gib backsheish," said another.

"Him berry good man," said a third, putting up his filthy hand, and touching Mr. Ingram's face.

"And young lady berry good, too; she give backsheish to poor Arab."

"Yes," said a fourth, preparing to take a similar liberty with Miss Damer.

This was too much for Mr. Ingram.  He had already used very positive language in his endeavour
to assure his tormentors that they would not get a piastre from him.  But this only changed
their soft persuasions into threats.  Upon hearing which, and upon seeing what the man attempted
to do in his endeavour to get money from Miss Damer, he raised his stick, and struck first
one and then the other as violently as he could upon their heads.

Any ordinary civilised men would have been stunned by such blows, for they fell on the bare
foreheads of the Arabs; but the objects of the American's wrath merely skulked away; and the
others, convinced by the only arguments which they understood, followed in pursuit of victims
who might be less pugnacious.

It is hard for a man to be at once tender and pugnacious--to be sentimental, while he is putting
forth his physical strength with all the violence in his power.  It is difficult, also, for
him to be gentle instantly after having been in a rage.  So he changed his tactics at the moment,
and came to the point at once in a manner befitting his present state of mind.

"Those vile wretches have put me in such a heat," he said, "that I hardly know what I am saying.
But the fact is this, Miss Damer, I cannot leave Cairo without knowing--.  You understand what
I mean, Miss Damer."

"Indeed I do not, Mr. Ingram; except that I am afraid you mean nonsense."

"Yes, you do; you know that I love you.  I am sure you must know it. At any rate you know it now."

"Mr. Ingram, you should not talk in such a way."

"Why should I not?  But the truth is, Fanny, I can talk in no other way.  I do love you dearly.
Can you love me well enough to go and be my wife in a country far away from your own?"

Before she left the top of the Pyramid Fanny Damer had said that she would try.

Mr. Ingram was now a proud and happy man, and seemed to think the steps of the Pyramid too
small for his elastic energy.  But Fanny feared that her troubles were to come.  There was
papa--that terrible bugbear on all such occasions.  What would papa say?  She was sure her
papa would not allow her to marry and go so far away from her own family and country.  For
herself, she liked the Americans--always had liked them; so she said;--would desire nothing
better than to live among them.  But papa!  And Fanny sighed as she felt that all the recognised
miseries of a young lady in love were about to fall upon her.

Nevertheless, at her lover's instance, she promised, and declared, in twenty different loving
phrases, that nothing on earth should ever make her false to her love or to her lover.

"Fanny, where are you?  Why are you not ready to come down?" shouted Mr. Damer, not in the
best of tempers.  He felt that he had almost been unkind to an unprotected female, and his
heart misgave him.  And yet it would have misgiven him more had he allowed himself to be entrapped
by Miss Dawkins.

"I am quite ready, papa," said Fanny, running up to him--for it may be understood that there
is quite room enough for a young lady to run on the top of the Pyramid.

"I am sure I don't know where you have been all the time," said Mr. Damer; "and where are those
two boys?"

Fanny pointed to the top of the other Pyramid, and there they were, conspicuous with their
red caps.

"And M. Delabordeau?"

"Oh! he has gone down, I think;--no, he is there with Miss Dawkins." And in truth Miss Dawkins
was leaning on his arm most affectionately, as she stooped over and looked down upon the ruins
below her.

"And where is that fellow, Ingram?" said Mr. Damer, looking about him. "He is always out of
the way when he's wanted."

To this Fanny said nothing.  Why should she?  She was not Mr. Ingram's keeper.

And then they all descended, each again with his proper number of Arabs to hurry and embarrass
him; and they found Mr. Damer at the bottom, like a piece of sugar covered with flies.  She
was heard to declare afterwards that she would not go to the Pyramids again, not if they were
to be given to her for herself, as ornaments for her garden.

The picnic lunch among the big stones at the foot of the Pyramid was not a very gay affair.
Miss Dawkins talked more than any one else, being determined to show that she bore her defeat
gallantly.  Her conversation, however, was chiefly addressed to M. Delabordeau, and he seemed
to think more of his cold chicken and ham than he did of her wit and attention.

Fanny hardly spoke a word.  There was her father before her and she could not eat, much less
talk, as she thought of all that she would have to go through.  What would he say to the idea
of having an American for a son-in-law?

Nor was Mr. Ingram very lively.  A young man when he has been just accepted, never is so. 
His happiness under the present circumstances was, no doubt, intense, but it was of a silent
nature.

And then the interior of the building had to be visited.  To tell the truth none of the party
would have cared to perform this feat had it not been for the honour of the thing.  To have
come from Paris, New York, or London, to the Pyramids, and then not to have visited the very
tomb of Cheops, would have shown on the part of all of them an indifference to subjects of
interest which would have been altogether fatal to their character as travellers.  And so a
party for the interior was made up.

Miss Damer when she saw the aperture through which it was expected that she should descend,
at once declared for staying with her mother.  Miss Dawkins, however, was enthusiastic for
the journey.  "Persons with so very little command over their nerves might really as well stay
at home," she said to Mr. Ingram, who glowered at her dreadfully for expressing such an opinion
about his Fanny.

This entrance into the Pyramids is a terrible task, which should be undertaken by no lady.
Those who perform it have to creep down, and then to be dragged up, through infinite dirt,
foul smells, and bad air; and when they have done it, they see nothing.  But they do earn the
gratification of saying that they have been inside a Pyramid.

"Well, I've done that once," said Mr. Damer, coming out, "and I do not think that any one will
catch me doing it again.  I never was in such a filthy place in my life."

"Oh, Fanny! I am so glad you did not go; I am sure it is not fit for ladies," said poor Mrs.
Damer, forgetful of her friend Miss Dawkins.

"I should have been ashamed of myself," said Miss Dawkins, bristling up, and throwing back
her head as she stood, "if I had allowed any consideration to have prevented my visiting such
a spot.  If it be not improper for men to go there, how can it be improper for women?"

"I did not say improper, my dear," said Mrs. Damer, apologetically.

"And as for the fatigue, what can a woman be worth who is afraid to encounter as much as I
have now gone through for the sake of visiting the last resting-place of such a king as Cheops?"
And Miss Dawkins, as she pronounced the last words, looked round her with disdain upon poor
Fanny Damer.

"But I meant the dirt," said Mrs. Damer.

