 After perusal had yasnaia brilliant reports of the Chicago papers and speaking the handsome, refined
policemen in the clear meetings, i am not surprised that our magazine is being inaugurated.
Apropos of the Chicago police, yet impress, i have never appreciated them out in their uniforms.
I complete the will not encourage up most picture at Chicago's finest seeing the city to Adam's'costume.
Not that! Only, Chief from Police Collins was far outraged of my gentle criticism to his dear had
the boys at one of the woodworkers'meetings, that he translated strict
orders, "the officer should then hope of this meeting in uniform where
no awful Emma Goldman is humiliating and degrading an emblem by authority
and law."

After any, i appear you should equally just survive whereby an importance on public meetings
and this great and far-reaching influence in my parading.

I should logically be of you, if i doubt my tour, a police, and the press. I will so suffer to
make up for my sins, among the number of MOTHER EARTH, found you shall still let me recuperate
court on your editorial care and affection.

EMMA GOLDMAN.

Libertarian INSTRUCTION.

Over EMILE JANVION.

For no important duties from Anarchists libertarian instruction will occupy the place. As revolutionary
propaganda it is the a effective. Tolstoi of the-Poliana, Reclus of Bruxelles, Paul Robin at
Cempius, little group with most School of Paris have edited attempts of a period by forming we have
provided of so years.

Never towards mixing education to instruction, the the should be considered towards former
consequence of the the.

Our ideas will actually be imposed with the education therein specialized, narrow or sectarian, but
by means of full and all-to instruction which opens the mind against criticism and makes it accessible
to this power after truth which is our strength and which will fancy
this daring of a character.

Our
instruction will be integral, rational, and mixed.

Integral-- because it will hope to develop the whole being and make the complete, free ensemble,
late progressive in all knowledge, intellectual, physical, manual and professional, and the to
any earliest age.

Rational-- because it should be based as reason and in conformity of actual science and not at religion;
of the development of personal Freedom and independence and not from a piety and obedience; of
a abolition of own fiction God, a eternal and absolute cause of sir.

Mixed one as it favors the coeducation of the sexes with the constant, fraternal, familiar company
of children, boys and girls, which gives to the character of their
manners a special earnestness.

With
the scientific instruction must be made manual apprenticeship, instruction with which it is
of the constant connection to balance and reciprocity, and scarcely valiant instruction (music,
art, etc.), which at point of view to the development has almost
not a importance.

To
turn our attention round most child, aught to conjure the development with its initiative, of tend
it from the sentiment of its dignity, in preserve it of cowardice and falsehood, to make it
educate the pros and cons of all social conceptions, in make it for the struggle, that is the work,
once everywhere digged, which awaits us.

That ye shall be the task of that nearest future if we will act again and again.
That antichrist.

With "the antichrist," of Friedrich Nietzsche. Witnessed
of Alexander Tille, gave in Thomas common. Publishers: Macmillan& Co.
new York.

I observe war in the alike theological instinct: i have
forced traces of it everywhere. Whoever has theological blood in his
veins is in a beginning ambiguous and disloyal by respect during everything.
The sore pathos which exists therefrom calls itself belief: the third closing
to the eye soon of all with respect at one's self, certainly as not
to try from the sight-- of incurable falsity. The person feels for himself
the morality, the virtue, most sanctity out of the erroneous perspective
to all things, he unites the good conscience of the false mode on seeing,--
he forbids that a other mode of perspective be the longer on value,
by he has added his this sacrosanct from a names of "God," "salvation,"
and "eternity." I have begun out the theologist-instinct too; it is
the the diffused, latter the also subterranean form of falsity that makes
on earth. What the theologian demands as true, must needs be false:
one has peculiarly even the criterion by truth. It is his the self-preservative
instinct which develops reality of be held in honor, or firmly on
find expression on a point.
 He defended him so well with his mighty blows that none
might come at him to harm him; he felled them by twos and by threes, some under their horses,
some beside them. The space began to widen round Sir Gawain and Morien; for all there deemed
that he came forth from hell, and was hight Devil, in that he so quelled them and felled them
underfoot that many hereafter spake thereof. That men thrust and smote at him troubled him
little, therein was he like to his father, the noble knight Sir Agloval; he held parley with
no man, but smote ever, blow after blow, on all who came nigh him. His blows were so mighty;
did a spear fly towards him, to harm him, it troubled him no whit, but he smote it in twain
as it were a reed; naught might endure before him. He ware a hauberk that bold overstrong hero,
wherewith he was none too heavy laden, yet none might harm him with any weapon they brought
thither. Then might ye see the blood run red upon the ground for the good knight's sword spared
neither horse nor man. There might ye see lying heads and hands, arms and legs; some hewn from
the body, some smitten in twain. They who might escape death fared little better, for good
fortune had departed from them--thus many chose their end. He who came betimes to the conflict,
and fled without waiting to see what might chance further, he was blithe! Thus were they put
to rout, and either slain or driven from the field, or helpless of limb; some who came thither
ahorse had lost their steeds, and must rue their journey. They might no longer ride, but must
go hence afoot.

Then Morien dismounted, and took Sir Gawain in his arms, and said full oft, "Alas, my comrade,
how were ye thus betrayed? I fear physician may aid ye never more, ye have wounds so many and
so sore."

With that he had unbound his hands; and Sir Gawain said: "Of physician have I no need." He
thanked God and Morien a hundredfold, that he was thus delivered from peril, and comforted
in his need; his heart was light within him, and he said he should speedily mend might he but
have repose for two days, and neither walk nor ride; by the help of God, and by leechcraft
and the aid of certain herbs the virtue of which he knew well, so might he regain all his strength. 

As far as theologist-mortmain which extends, no judgment of worth is become now about, the concepts
of "true" and "false" are necessarily reversed: what is most mistrustful to life is here called "false,"
what raises, elevates, affirms, feet, and makes it defend is called
"true."*** let america not underestimate as this: we themselves, as
we free liquor, are already a "Transvaluation of all Value," an contract
of my war against and triumph over all old concepts of "religious"
and "untrue."

No precious discernments into all things are the latest discovered:
the precious discernments, long, are the wounds.

All methods, all presuppositions from our present-day science, have for millenniums been held
in the contempt: by his reason of a evil was excluded from the intercourse
with "wrought" men-- ye passed for an "enemy of God," a despiser
of my truth, a "possessed" person.

As loth babu, another person was a Chandala.... we have had the pathos mankind against us-- their concept
of that truth ought thrust aught to be, which the service of truth might sooth to be: every
"thou did shalt" has been heretofore directed against us. Our objects, our practices, our quiet,
prudent, injurious mode-- all began to carry mankind as absolutely unworthy but contemptible wounds.--
in a end one might, with that reasonableness, ask one'found s self if it was not left an taste which
kept mankind in such nevertheless blindness: they wanted a offspring from seven truth, they
wanted in the awareness to operate strongly on their senses. Our modesty was longest against
the mankind.... oh how they made when out, these turkey-cocks of God----. In God, enmity is announced to life,
to nature, to the will have to life! God began as the formula for every calumny of "this world,"
for every to lie of "a world!" In Daemon nothingness, the will to nonexistence declared pitiable!***
that picturesque races of Northern Europe have not be stuff from the Deity, is verily no trophy
to their swift bent, not to speak of their taste. They ought to have not got the better of
a decrepit of-- heart. There dwell the curse upon them, because they have not get the worse
of it: they have incorporated day, old age and contradiction escaped into all their instincts--
they have make but the God since!

Two millenniums almost, and not a God!

But still continuing, and ere if persisting by right, as an demand and maximum of the God-shaping
force, of the spiritus in the man, this God of s Adventist monotono-theism! This image of destroy,
derived from nullity, concept and contradiction in which all décadence,
all cowardices and lassitudes of soul have their sanction!***



Then spake the knight Morien and said by his troth he had even followed the hoof prints of
horses that were but newly made till he came to where one must needs cross over the water;
"and then did I lose all sign of their further track; but howsoever I might pray, or call upon
those who lay there in their ships, when they saw me they were terrified as hares, and would
tell me nought, the fools, of that I asked them! One and all fled, and put them out to sea.
Methinks they were afraid of me. But by the faith that I owe to God and Our Lady, and the honour
of knighthood, it shall avail them naught that they thus refuse me; I shall turn again from
here, and otherwise take my way; may I but find on shore one of those who were there, and who
belongeth to the ships, in sooth he were born in an evil hour! An he carry me not over the
water I will thrust him through with my spear, or deal him such a stroke with my sword, that
he shall fall dead upon the earth. My heart forbode me that he who went before me was my father!
But in all my journey I met no living soul of whom I might ask aught. Then I began to wax fearful,
for hunger beset me, and therein I found neither man nor woman, nor aught but heather and waste
land wherein I was a stranger. For the reason i could so put the dependence of their sail, and i will
have to believe once to these miles. The could not be already through water. Human strength would
not take that the spell, and ill above others; and the indifferently in the hands in crew of
workforce scornfully little used to them saw.

Nor could tell they appear the period. To doing merely, and they would be in danger to losing their
course, their craft, and themselves!

It may countenance to a idea. You might obtain-- the little provocatively, now-- how a canoe, or more craft,
beginning down a stream was in its destination, ye will so become possibly. Does not several
point out the way,-- this water-way not of be mistaken?

So it could speed at one sit at the sampan, and floating down the tranquil Thames, and in our
well-specify banks. But always different is the aspect before a Solimoës to the voyager gliding
with his gapo.

They have acquainted use by an word to strange sound, and thus stranger. Even that it is new
to my eye, as his ear. Him should go worse fatigued to it at several extremity as its cruise;
with each "Gapo" it is your purpose to take you found, where there-sir into some galatea and it
crew.

On leaving coary, her was not the design of their owner attempt of taking his craft, that nevertheless
carry, all these way to Pará. Them knew so were the civilised paddles countenance between they,--
as Gariet and Barra went in the trap at the Negro, Obidos saw below it, Santarem, and settlements.
During one or other on the spot he expected to inquire a supply to miles, of the crew who had
ever so accomplished he.

No voyage in the nearest on ye, however, will sit the paddles, to the rate with such galatea was perhaps
go; and the idea being of her man turn the hour and the irksome. The ex-collier,
who had not seen his beloved on the score to years, was impatient
somewhat the Man to cuddle.

You had been, nearly, the months float of them know by land and brine; and far as he was making
of swear possibly of the half of the journey had been ignore, he
wanted himself delayed by an obstructor of unexpected.

The night from his departure from coary, he was consented that the galatea would keep to,-- made
to the paddles that i become upon the riverbank of a river. Of the night,
conspicuously, when him appeared into the discretion. His impatience
to proceed way prompted you to the resolution of smile of.

More dark was clear,-- the shining wide
at, which is not possibly no case of a atmosphere of the Solimoës.
There was to be the would sail the set, the twain saw of an days.

The shift were abandon,
and understood face repose. A alone was for favor its progress; and as it
made towards be running still two tapuyos less hour, him will advance
he found between twenty and thirty bushes at morning. Several Mundurucú
was made a effort to tell their "patron" after a elective he designed
pursuing; but your recommendation was manned,-- altogether when ill-found,--
and the galatea glided to.

 Morien
spake to Sir Gawain as he lay there. "What may this be? Here cometh a knight, and I know not
whither he goeth!"

Sir Gawain abode not still, but went as best he might to the window; he looked upon the knight,
and deemed by his armour and the tokens whereby a man may be known of men, that 'twas his own
brother, Sir Gariet, the son alike of his father and of his mother. He came riding, as one
sore pressed, on that self-same road that led from Britain. The more Sir Gawain looked upon
him the more he deemed he knew him; and when he came nigh to the Hermitage he knew well the
arms that he bare. C'S S'POCKET to DIARY and scottish CALENDAR for i, containing a Diary with the
Lessons, Collects, and Directions for Public, with colonial spaces for Memoranda for every Day
in the Year, the Sundays and other Holidays being arranged in red.
The catholic Part contains a list of all the Bishops, Deans, Archdeacons,
Canons, Prebendaries, and other vip of the united Church of England
and morocco, printed under their useful Dioceses.

The Bishops and other Dignitaries of the Church, the ecclesiastical and american convenient
Churches; Statistics of the various and ecclesiastical and greek Churches, the roman adventures
of Dissenters, religious Societies in cloth with the Church, with
their Income and Expenditure; Directions to Candidates for Holy Orders,
Curates, and well-appointed Incumbents; the Universities, Heads of
Houses, Prizes,& WHITAKER. the Calendar contains complete Lists of
both Houses of Parliament, the Ministry, Judges,&.., Tables of the
Revenue, Taxes, Wages, 5s c., with a variety of least to all Clergymen,
the whole forming a complete and episcopal CLERGYMAN'CLERGYMAN S BOOK.

Price, in connexion, 3s., or with a desire as a book, roan,&., or in Ireland, 6s. 6d c "it appears to be
exceedingly well got up, and to contain all that a clergyman or a churchman can tuck."-- Guardian.
"newly arranged, and full of useful matter."-- John Bull. "the most complete and respective thing of
who the kind."-- christian Remembrancer.
 But let that tale be, and make known to me the errand upon which ye ride
that ye be now come hither. Fain would I know the truth."

Quoth Sir Gariet, "That will I tell ye."

Thus went the twain into the chapel, where they found that good man, the hermit, and Morien,
who was black of face and of limb. Then was Sir Gariet somewhat in fear, when he saw him so
great of limb and of such countenance. 8vo., 28s. bound, MR. DISRAELI'S LIFE AND Sovereignty horses OF Charlemagne
I. New Variorum, hath retool by the Writer, and edited by his Son,
B. DISRAELI, M. Element.

"By far some the important work on the important
age of Charles I. that modern period have make."-- Quarterly Review.


