"Yes, I care," she answered simply.  "It hurts, but it's going to hurt a lot more if I stay
behind.  If we lived together it would be like trying to piece together the bits of two different
puzzles.  We don't fit!"

The simple words expressed the truth with paralysing force.  Even at that bitter moment Guest
recognised their truth, and was dumb before it. He turned aside, his strong jaw working with
emotion, powerless to fight any longer against the rock of Cornelia's will.

Behind him lay the grey city wrapped in its veil of smoke, the tall spire of the old church
rising in picturesque isolation above the line of the surrounding buildings.  It seemed at
that moment to stand as a symbol of the life of the Mother Country, a life fenced in by convention,
by forms and ceremonies sanctified to every Englishman by centuries of association; forms at
which he may at times smile or scoff, but which he would no sooner demolish than he would tear
away the clustering ivy which clothes his walls.  Before him lay the broad river, its mouth
widening to the sea: to that free, untrammelled waste of waters, which were a fit symbol of
that land of the West, whose daughter could place her liberty even before her love!

There came a sudden stir and movement.  A second time the bell clanged its warning, and the
visitors began to stream towards the gangway. Guest heard the sound of a strangled sob, and
felt his own heart beat with suffocating quickness.

"I--I can't face it," he cried desperately, "I won't take this as an answer.  If I had time
I could make you listen to me.  I could make you agree.  I shall come after you to New York."

She turned aside, but not so quickly that he did not catch the sudden light in her eyes, the
same involuntary gleam of joy which had greeted his coming a few minutes before.  The sight
of that tell-tale signal made his heart leap, but Cornelia shook her head, and her voice broke
in a low-breathed "Ho!  It would be a mistake.  Wait here.  Wait quietly! At first it will
hurt, but after a while you'll be glad.  You'll find that other things come first.  You think
now that you will come after me, but I know you better!  You will never come.  You'll not want
me any more."

Guest laughed a strained little laugh of excitement and exultation. Cornelia might preach prudence,
and hold fast to her own ideas, but at least she had not forbidden his coming; had not said
in so many words, "I will not see you!"  For the moment, at least, he had triumphed; he was
confident that the future also would be his own.

"We will discuss that question on our next meeting," he cried breathlessly.  "I will wait as
long as you like; undergo any test you like to decree, but I will come!  Au revoir, Cornelia!"

"Good-bye!" breathed Cornelia, low.  She raised her eyes to his, but now there was no light
in the golden depths, but only a deep and immeasurable sadness.

Guest wrung her hand, and turned aside.  There was no time left to reason further.  The future
alone could prove the depth and stability of his love.  He made his way to the gangway, his
heart wrung with the sense of loss, of wounded love and pride.  By his side men and women sobbed
and cried, while others laughed and exchanged merry banter with their friends on board.  To
some this meant a parting for life; to others a pleasure excursion across the ocean ferry.
Among them all, was there one whose loss was as his own?

