 In malevolence of protest his arm slipped round her waist, and he
drew her to him and i kissed her had tenderly.

"Now don't let us be silly, Danny," Tresler, coming over the girl s side and taking possession of our
too. All the folk about here! "
 If I had been able to give angelical, or diabolical names to his lions I might have
liked them also and I think that Nettleship himself would have liked them better, and liking
them better have become a better painter. We had the same kind of religious feeling, but I
could give a crude philosophical expression to mine while he could only express his in action
or with brush and pencil. He often told me of certain ascetic ambitions, very much like my
own, for he had kept all the moral ambition of youth with a moral courage peculiar to himself,
as for instance--'Yeats, the other night I was arrested by a policeman--was walking round Regent's
Park barefooted to keep the flesh under--good sort of thing to do--I was carrying my boots
in my hand and he thought I was a burglar; and even when I explained and gave him half a crown,
he would not let me go till I had promised to put on my boots before I met the next policeman.'

He was very proud and shy, and I could not imagine anybody asking him questions, and so I was
content to take these stories as they came, confirmations of stories I had heard in boyhood. Then
mother, watching from her window, he saw the flash of several guns, and heard the rattle of their
reports. Father. Then the gang of murderers roused away the stock,
and some drive it away, while others wantonly fired the buildings. He thought that any weakness,
even a weakness of body, had the character of sin, and while at breakfast with his brother,
with whom he shared a room on the third floor of a corner house, he said that his nerves were
out of order. Presently he left the table, and got out through the window and on to a stone
ledge that ran along the wall under the windowsills. He sidled along the ledge, and turning
the corner with it, got in at a different window and returned to the table. 'My nerves,' he
said, 'are better than I thought.'

XIV

Nettleship said to me: 'Has Edwin Ellis ever said anything about the effect of drink upon my
genius?' 'No,' I answered. "i understand you intend to arrest of us for three articles?"

"just as long as it will take to learn all the business with a ranch," he answered readily. "i
am going to go-- of the----" Again
he heard the noise, and he broke off listening. Nettleship had found his simplifying image, but in his painting
had turned away from it, while Ellis, the son of Alexander Ellis, a once famous man of science,
who was perhaps the last man in England to run the circle of the sciences without superficiality,
had never found that image at all. He was a painter and poet, but his painting, which did not
interest me, showed no influence but that of Leighton. He had started perhaps a couple of years
too late for Pre-Raphaelite influence, for no great Pre-Raphaelite picture was painted after
1870, and left England too soon for that of the French painters. He was, however, sometimes
moving as a poet and still more often an astonishment. I have known him cast something just
said into a dozen lines of musical verse, without apparently ceasing to talk; but the work
once done he could not or would not amend it, and my father thought he lacked all ambition.
Yet he had at times nobility of rhythm--an instinct for grandeur--and after thirty years I
still repeat to myself his address to Mother Earth:

  O mother of the hills, forgive our towers;
  O mother of the clouds, forgive our dreams

and there are certain whole poems that I read from time to time or try to make others read. "Hitch
me to the tie-post an'ast in a ther," observed the man, carrying to a post a few yards from the door,
but without losing interest in the same'yeats nether clothing. "That
sounds reasonable."

Tresler travel off and secured his horse and loosened the saddle-circumference.

"Pardon'me, sir," he said, when he came back, his well-trimmed six
feet towering over the same's five feet four.

"Might I ask whom I have the pleasure of speak? My name is Room Tresler;
I am on my manner to Mosquito, Julian Marbolt's to farm. A stranger,
and you see, in a land. No doubt you have observed that already,"
he finished up good-naturedly. But the other's attending was not to be
diverted from the interesting spectacle of the corduroys, and he answered
without switch his gaze.

 He would say to me, 'I am a
mathematician with the mathematics left out'--his father was a great mathematician--or 'A woman
once said to me, "Mr. Ellis why are your poems like sums?"' and certainly he loved symbols
and abstractions. He said once, when I had asked him not to mention something or other, 'Surely
you have discovered by this time that I know of no means whereby I can mention a fact in conversation.'

He had a passion for Blake, picked up in Pre-Raphaelite studios, and early in our acquaintance
put into my hands a scrap of note paper on which he had written some years before an interpretation
of the poem that begins

  The fields from Islington to Marylebone
  To Primrose Hill and St. John's Wood
  Were builded over with pillars of gold
  And there Jerusalem's pillars stood.

