"Not go to the police?  And do you mean to say that I am to be robbed of my jewels and no efforts
made for redress?  Is there no such thing as a constable in this wretched country?  Mr. Greene,
I do insist upon it that you at once go to the nearest British consul."

"I suppose I had better write home for money," said he.

"And do you mean to say that you haven't written yet?" said I, probably with some acrimony
in my voice.

"You needn't scold papa," said Sophonisba.

"I don't know what I am to do," said Mr. Greene, and he began walking up and down the room;
but still he did not call for pen and ink, and I began again to feel that he was a swindler.
Was it possible that a man of business, who had made his fortune in London, should allow his
wife to keep all her jewels in a box, and carry about his own money in the same?

"I don't see why you need be so very unhappy, papa," said Sophonisba. "Mr. Robinson, I'm sure,
will let you have whatever money you may want at present."  This was pleasant!

"And will Mr. Robinson return me my jewels which were lost, I must say, in a great measure,
through his carelessness," said Mrs. Greene. This was pleasanter!

"Upon my word, Mrs. Greene, I must deny that," said I, jumping up. "What on earth could I have
done more than I did do?  I have been to Milan and nearly fagged myself to death."

"Why didn't you bring a policeman back with you?"

"You would tell everybody on board the boat what there was in it," said I.

"I told nobody but you," she answered.

"I suppose you mean to imply that I've taken the box," I rejoined.  So that on this, the third
or fourth day of our acquaintance, we did not go on together quite pleasantly.

But what annoyed me, perhaps, the most, was the confidence with which it seemed to be Mr. Greene's
intention to lean upon my resources.  He certainly had not written home yet, and had taken
my ten napoleons, as one friend may take a few shillings from another when he finds that he
has left his own silver on his dressing-table.  What could he have wanted of ten napoleons?
He had alleged the necessity of paying the porters, but the few francs he had had in his pocket
would have been enough for that.  And now Sophonisba was ever and again prompt in her assurances
that he need not annoy himself about money, because I was at his right hand.  I went upstairs
into my own room, and counting all my treasures, found that thirty-six pounds and some odd
silver was the extent of my wealth.  With that I had to go, at any rate, as far as Innspruck,
and from thence back to London.  It was quite impossible that I should make myself responsible
for the Greenes' bill at Bellaggio.

We dined early, and after dinner, according to a promise made in the morning, Sophonisba ascended
with me into the Serbelloni Gardens, and walked round the terraces on that beautiful hill which
commands the view of the three lakes.  When we started I confess that I would sooner have gone
alone, for I was sick of the Greenes in my very soul. We had had a terrible day.  The landlord
had been sent for so often, that he refused to show himself again.  The landlady--though Italians
of that class are always courteous--had been so driven that she snapped her fingers in Mrs.
Greene's face.  The three girls would not show themselves.  The waiters kept out of the way
as much as possible; and the Boots, in confidence, abused them to me behind their back. "Monsieur,"
said the Boots, "do you think there ever was such a box?"

"Perhaps not," said I; and yet I knew that I had seen it.

I would, therefore, have preferred to walk without Sophonisba; but that now was impossible.
So I determined that I would utilise the occasion by telling her of my present purpose.  I
had resolved to start on the following day, and it was now necessary to make my friends understand
that it was not in my power to extend to them any further pecuniary assistance.

Sophonisba, when we were on the hill, seemed to have forgotten the box, and to be willing that
I should forget it also.  But this was impossible.  When, therefore, she told me how sweet
it was to escape from that terrible woman, and leaned on my arm with all the freedom of old
acquaintance, I was obliged to cut short the pleasure of the moment.

"I hope your father has written that letter," said I.

"He means to write it from Milan.  We know you want to get on, so we purpose to leave here
the day after to-morrow."

"Oh!" said I thinking of the bill immediately, and remembering that Mrs. Greene had insisted
on having champagne for dinner.

"And if anything more is to be done about the nasty box, it may be done there," continued Sophonisba.

"But I must go to-morrow," said I, "at 5 a.m."

"Nonsense," said Sophonisba.  "Go to-morrow, when I,--I mean we,--are going on the next day!"

"And I might as well explain," said I, gently dropping the hand that was on my arm, "that I
find,--I find it will be impossible for me--to- -to--"

"To what?"

"To advance Mr. Greene any more money just at present."  Then Sophonisba's arm dropped all
at once, and she exclaimed, "Oh, Mr. Robinson!"

After all, there was a certain hard good sense about Miss Greene which would have protected
her from my evil thoughts had I known all the truth.  I found out afterwards that she was a
considerable heiress, and, in spite of the opinion expressed by the present Mrs. Robinson when
Miss Walker, I do not for a moment think she would have accepted me had I offered to her.

"You are quite right not to embarrass yourself," she said, when I explained to her my immediate
circumstances; "but why did you make papa an offer which you cannot perform?  He must remain
here now till he hears from England.  Had you explained it all at first, the ten napoleons
would have carried us to Milan."  This was all true, and yet I thought it hard upon me.

It was evident to me now, that Sophonisba was prepared to join her step-mother in thinking
that I had ill-treated them, and I had not much doubt that I should find Mr. Greene to be of
the same opinion. There was very little more said between us during the walk, and when we reached
the hotel at seven or half-past seven o'clock, I merely remarked that I would go in and wish
her father and mother good-bye. "I suppose you will drink tea with us," said Sophonisba, and
to this I assented.

I went into my own room, and put all my things into my portmanteau, for according to the custom,
which is invariable in Italy when an early start is premeditated, the Boots was imperative
in his demand that the luggage should be ready over night.  I then went to the Greene's sitting-room,
and found that the whole party was now aware of my intentions.

"So you are going to desert us," said Mrs. Greene.

"I must go on upon my journey," I pleaded in a weak apologetic voice.

"Go on upon your journey, sir!" said Mrs. Greene.  "I would not for a moment have you put yourself
to inconvenience on our account."  And yet I had already lost fourteen napoleons, and given
up all prospect of going to Venice!

"Mr. Robinson is certainly right not to break his engagement with Miss Walker," said Sophonisba.
Now I had said not a word about an engagement with Miss Walker, having only mentioned incidentally
that she would be one of the party at Innspruck. Nearly every night we would hear a call, this
from'sentry of the sentry, no. 1.'such would be reached to Guard until
barracks as Corporal repeated the Corporal, when it of the Guard, no.
1, would see and come what was wanted.

"I'll leave the portmanteau till to-morrow morning," said he.

"All right," said I.

"Because," said he, "there will be such a crowd of things in the hall. The big trunk I will
take away now.