BIRD HOUSES BOYS CAN BUILD

BY

ALBERT F. SIEPERT, B.S.

Professor of Manual Arts, Bradley Polytechnic Institute Editor, Shop Problems Series (on tracing
paper) Editor, Shop Notes and Problems Department of MANUAL TRAINING MAGAZINE

THE MANUAL ARTS PRESS PEORIA, ILLINOIS

Copyright 1916 The Manual Arts Press

Fourth Edition, 1919

FOREWORD.

Years ago a country boy heard or read that if a simple box having a hole of a certain size
were set upon a post in March or early April it would not be long before bluebirds would be
around to see if the place would do as a summer cottage. So he took an old paint keg such as
white lead is sold in, nailed a cover across the top, cut an opening in the side and then placed
it on a post ten or twelve feet high. Only a day or two passed before a soft call-note was
heard, a flash of blue, and the songster had arrived. His mate came a few days later and the
paint keg with its tenants became the center of interest in my life. A second brood was reared
in midsummer and when the cool days of September came a fine flock left for the South. Each
year the house was occupied until the post decayed and the paint keg fell down, but in memory
the sad call-note is still heard when spring comes, for it is house hunting time once more,
and the bluebirds are looking for the home they had known.

That boys elsewhere may know the joy of the companionship of birds, this little book is written.
Birds will come and live near the houses of men whenever food and water are to be had, safety
from enemies is given, and when homes are built for them to replace the shelters nature offered
before men came with their cultivated fields and crowded cities. The following pages give pictures
and drawings of houses that boys have built and in which birds have lived. These houses are
planned for the species of birds that have become accustomed to civilization so that they will
inhabit the houses put up for them.

The author is indebted to Professor Chas. A. Bennett of Bradley Institute and Mr. L. L. Simpson
of The Manual Arts Press for helpful suggestions and encouragement; to John Friese for making
the drawings; and to the following for the use of the originals of the illustrations which
tell most of the story.

     Edward G. Anderson, Seattle, Wash. Figs. 32, 33, 34, 36, 39,
     54, 55, 56, 57.

     Frank H. Ball, Pittsburgh, Pa. Figs. 12, 29, 45, 66, 67.

     Leon H. Baxter, St. Johnsbury, Vt. Figs. 21, 22.

     F. D. Crawshaw, University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wis. Figs.
     11, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44.

     Donald V. Ferguson, St. Paul, Minn. Figs. 9, 28, 38, 62.

     Geo. G. Grimm, Baltimore, Md. Fig. 14.

     C. M. Hunt, Milton, Mass. Figs. 46, 52.

     H. A. Hutchins, Cleveland, O. Figs. 15, 16, 17, 18, 19.

     Elmer Knutson, St. Cloud, Minn. Figs. 30, 31.

     National Association of Audubon Societies, 1974 Broadway,
     New York City. Figs.

     Chas. Tesch, Milwaukee, Wis. Fig. 64.

     The Crescent Co., Toms River, N. J. Figs. 35, 49, 50.

     United States Department of Agriculture Bulletins; Figs. 20,
     51, 65.

     Youths Companion, Perry Mason Co., Boston, Mass. Figs. 58,
     59, 60, 61.

                              ALBERT F. SIEPERT.

     Peoria, Ill., March, 1916.

CONTENTS

                                                       PAGE.

Birds That Live in Nesting Boxes                         7

    Bluebird--robin--chickadee--wren--house
    finch--woodpecker--flicker--martin

Construction of Bird Houses                             15

    Dimensions of nesting boxes--houses of sawed
    lumber--rustic houses--cement and stucco houses

Placing Houses                                          36

Feeding Shelves and Shelters                            37

    Foods

Bird Baths                                              48

Bird Enemies                                            51

    Men--ants and vermin--English or house
    sparrow--sparrow traps

Bird House Exhibitions                                  54

Bibliography                                            57

    Bird and bird house literature

Index                                                   59

BIRDS THAT LIVE IN NESTING BOXES.

Certain varieties of birds will nest in homes built for them if these houses are of the right
shape and dimensions. Other birds may be just as desirable but do not build nests and rear
their young in boy-made nesting boxes. We are therefore mainly concerned with the first group
which select cavities in trees for their homes if nothing better is to be found.

BLUEBIRD.

This bird may be found during the summer months in most of the states east of the Rocky Mountains,
Figs. 1 and 59. It spends its winter in the southern states and southward, returning north
in March and April. The principal items of food are grasshoppers, caterpillars and beetles.
It should have a house measuring about 5" in length and width, inside measurements, and 8"
or more in depth. The entrance hole should be 1-1/2" in diameter and placed near the top, so
that the young birds cannot get out until strong enough to have some chance of escape from
their enemies after they leave the nest. While authorities differ as to the need of cleaning
after a season's use, it seems wise to provide the house with some device whereby the bottom
may be removed for such purposes. Houses for this species are shown in Figs. 11, 21, 22 and 24.

ROBIN.

Robins usually announce the coming of spring when they return to their breeding grounds in
the northern states, where they are general favorites. Figs. 2 and 60. The nest is usually
built of mud and lined with grasses; placed in the fork of a tree or on some sheltered ledge.
Robins take kindly to nesting shelves put up for them and it is well to put up several since
but one brood is reared in each nest built. This old nest should be removed after the young
birds have gone. A simple shelf is shown in the lower left hand corner of the photograph, Fig.
24, as well as in Figs. 20 and 49.

CHICKADEE.

The chickadee is one of the brave little spirits who spends the entire winter with us, Fig.
3. We can be of considerable service to him during the cold weather by providing food shelters.
During the summer months his home is usually found in some decaying stump, hence nesting boxes
of the rustic type placed in some remote spot of the orchard or park are most attractive to him.

WREN.

When all other song birds fail to take advantage of a house built for them, the wren may still
be counted on. Almost any sort of home from a tin can or hollow gourd on up is satisfactory
if put in a safe place and provided with an opening 1" or slightly less in diameter, so the
sparrows must stay out, Figs. 4 and 5. Good homes are shown in Figs. 10, 14, 15, 16 and others.

HOUSE FINCH.

The house finch has made many enemies because of its fondness for cultivated fruits and berries.
However, it has some redeeming features in its song and beauty. The nest is usually placed
in the fork of a limb--evergreens being favorite nesting places. The house shown in Fig. 51
is suitable for these birds but is also acceptable to wrens.

WOODPECKER.

The favorite of this interesting family is the little downy, Fig. 7. Living largely upon harmful
grubs and insects, this bird does an immense amount of good by protecting our forests from
insect scourges. Woodpeckers do not build nests as most birds do, but excavate a deep cavity
in some dead tree leaving a quantity of chips at the bottom on which the eggs are laid. Nesting
boxes should be of the rustic type made as shown in Fig. 12, leaving some sawdust mixed with
a little earth in the cavity. These houses should be placed on trees in a park or orchard.
Boys should be able to tell the difference between the woodpeckers beneficial to man and the
sapsucker whose misdeeds often cause considerable damage to fruit trees. A nuthatch is also
seen in Fig. 7 enjoying a meal of sunflower seed.

FLICKER.

The flickers spend much of their time on the ground in search of ants which form the larger
percentage of their food. Since ants sometimes cause considerable trouble for other birds,
a pair of flickers are worth cultivating for the sake of the work they can do. Artificial nesting
boxes of sufficient depth and size are quite readily used, Figs. 6, 20 and 25.

MARTIN.

Nearly everyone knows swallows of one variety or another. The most beautiful of the family
are the martins, Fig. 8. This bird is of great service against the inroads of wasps, bugs and
beetles. It prefers to live in colonies even though the males fight bitterly at times. Martin
houses should have at least several rooms, each separate from all the others. Houses have been
built to accommodate fifty and more families. Smaller ones are shown in Figs. 8, 9, 13 and 45.

Fig. 9 is a miniature reproduction of Peer Gynt's cottage for a martin house. This house was
not only an attractive thing to make, but martins selected it for their home during the past
summer.

CONSTRUCTION OF BIRD HOUSES.

Bird houses may be divided into three main classes: (1) those made of sawed lumber to specified
dimensions; (2) the rustic type made of (a) slabs of wood with the bark left on, or (b) pieces
of tree trunk, or (c) of sawed lumber trimmed with bark or twigs; and (3) cement or stucco
houses. In each case the entrance should slant slightly upward to keep the rain out.

Almost any sort of lumber may be used, but birds take most readily to that which has been weathered
out of doors. A kind should be used which does not warp or check badly; white pine and cypress
meet these requirements and are worked with ease. Yellow poplar is used and cedar with or without
the bark left on has its friends for houses of the first or second classes.

Nesting boxes of sawed lumber should be painted on the outside to improve their appearance
and to preserve them against the effect of the weather. It is often wise to leave a small amount
of unpainted surface around the entrance, and all paint should be thoroughly dry before houses
are expected to be occupied. Colors selected will depend somewhat upon the neighborhood, but
white, grey, dull greens or browns are often used.

DIMENSIONS OF NESTING BOXES.

The following table, copied from Farmers Bulletin, No. 609, U. S. Dept. of Agriculture, gives
in small space valuable information about dimensions that experience and investigation have
indicated as good for particular varieties of birds. This list includes many varieties that
do not commonly live in houses built for them, however. As time goes on, we may expect to find
more of these birds living in our nesting boxes because they are apt to seek the same sort
of home as the one in which they were reared. The table is given to be of service to those
wishing to plan new houses not shown here.

Dimensions of nesting boxes for various species of birds.

=================+==========+==========+==========+==========+=========
                 |   Floor  |   Depth  | Entrance | Diameter |  Height
    Species.

The boy with an outfit of tools at home, or with a teacher of manual training interested in
birds, can make all of the houses to be described in this section. Figs. 10 and 11 show simple
houses for wrens and bluebirds. Drawings for this type of house are shown in Figs. 14, 15 and
21. While the surfaces of lumber used for these houses may or may not be planed, care must
be taken that all pieces are sawed or planed to the correct sizes with edges and ends square
and true so there will be no bad cracks for drafts and rain to enter. Be careful to nail the
pieces together so that they will not have occasion to crack or warp. A good way to save time
and lumber is to prepare a piece of stock, getting it of the right thickness, width and length,
and then to saw up this stock on lines carefully laid out as shown in the drawings of the bluebird
and wren houses, flicker nest, robin shelf and finch house. The most difficult houses to build
are those for martins. In Fig. 45 is given a drawing for a small home arranged to care for
eight families, while the photographs, Figs. 8, 9, 38, 66 and 67 show larger, finer and more
difficult houses. The doors or openings are 2-1/2" in diameter and can be made with an expansion
bit or a key-hole saw. All of these houses are to be made so they may be cleaned. Sometimes
the bottom is hinged on two screws or nails, and held in proper place by a dowel (bluebird
house, Fig. 21); or screwed in place (wren house, Fig. 21, and martin house, Fig. 45); or hinged
and held in place by a brass spring (wren house, Fig. 14).

RUSTIC HOUSES.

The first group of houses of this type are shown in Figs. 12, 35 and 36. These are made of
slabs of wood with the bark left on, and in some cases, of the bark alone if it can be secured
of sufficient thickness. It is usually a good plan to drive a sufficient number of nails into
the bark to keep it in place, otherwise it will drop off. Houses such as these attract birds
that would avoid a freshly painted imitation of some large residence or public building. Figs.
20 and 37 show houses made of a section of a tree split or sawed in halves, the nest cavity
hollowed out, and then fastened together again with screws. The top should be covered with
a board or piece of tin to keep out rain. The third division of this type of house is made
of sawed lumber and then trimmed with bark or twigs. In this way the same frames may be made
to appear as very different bird houses when completed. Such houses are shown in Figs. 30 to
34. Sometimes a pail is used for the frame and then covered with bark, as the center house
of Fig. 28. This house has a partition placed half-way up making it a two family apartment,
and is provided with ventilating and cleaning devices.

CEMENT AND STUCCO HOUSES.

Houses may be cast of concrete as Fig. 39. This requires a mold or form, and takes considerable
planning to insure success. A form is made whose inside dimensions are those of the outside
of the bird house, and of the desired shape. A second form, or core, to be placed inside of
the first form, is made as large as the inside of the bird house. The two forms must be mounted
so they will remain in the right relation while concrete is placed in the space between them.
After this has set, the forms may be removed, cleaned and used again. The roof is generally
made separately and put in position last. Or the roof can be cast as a part of the house in
which case the bottom is inserted last. Birds do not take as kindly to this type of house as
a rule, as to those made of wood.

The stucco house has many possibilities. Fig. 38, shows a group of such houses designed to
match the general appearance of garages in good residence districts. The frame is made of wood
and the stucco applied by one of the methods in use on large houses. Seventh grade boys have
made such houses, using 3/8" material for the frames, tacking on wire netting and then plastering
each side of the house in turn with concrete. The sides were given a pebble-dash surface, while
the roof was finished with a steel trowel to give a smooth surface that will shed water readily,
Fig. 13.

A CAREFULLY PLANNED PROJECT IS SHOWN IN VARIOUS STAGES OF COMPLETION IN FIGS. 15-19.

PLACING HOUSES.

The table given on page 16 states the height from the ground that different species of birds
seem to prefer for their nests, to which several suggestions may be added. The houses should
be so located that cats and other bird enemies do not have easy access to them. The openings
ought to be turned away from the directions from which storms and winds most often come; and
the house must hang or tilt so rain does not run in at the entrance. Such birds as the woodpeckers
spend most of their time in the trees and so do not take as readily to a house set on a pole
out in the open as martins or bluebirds. Flickers are seen on the ground a good share of the
time in search of their favorite food, and so will frequently live in houses nailed to fence
posts. Houses are more apt to be occupied if placed in position in fall or winter before the
spring migration, especially houses made of freshly dressed or newly painted wood. However,
such birds as the robin and bluebird rear more than one brood each season and so a house set
up in May or June may have a tenant. Figs. 40 to 44 show boys of the University of Wisconsin
High School placing some of the houses they had made.

FEEDING SHELVES AND SHELTERS.

Nesting boxes make their appeal to but a part of the birds of any community. These attract
during the early spring and summer months. Many other species are worth having in our orchards
and gardens for their songs and their activity in destroying insects and weed seeds. To these
some other attraction than nesting boxes must be offered. Then again, many birds would spend
a longer time with us if a certain food supply were assured them. A simple suet feeder is shown
in Fig. 45. The birds cling to the chicken wire while eating. A feeding box for seed-eating
birds is given in Fig. 46. Fig. 47 gives a shelf to be nailed to the sunny side of a building,
while Fig. 48 shows a somewhat similar type to be fastened to a window sill, making it possible
to observe the birds that come to dine. Birds that hesitate to come close to buildings may
be attracted by the feeders set out in the open. Fig. 50 shows a feeder mounted on an iron
pipe so it can be turned in any direction. This feeder has one end closed by a pane of glass,
and is to be turned so that prevailing winds do not enter. Fig. 49 shows a feeding shelf for
winter use which makes an acceptable robin nesting shelf in spring. In Fig. 53 is given a feeder
mounted on a base with a vane so the adjustment takes place automatically. Figs. 51 and 52
show two food shelters considerably more difficult to construct. They have glass on all sides,
and are open at the bottom so that birds can enter or leave at will. Fig. 30 shows a simple
food shelter offering some protection against rain and snow, while a very attractive group
of shelters are given in Figs. 54, 55, 56 and 57. If you look closely you may see "Mabel" in
the right hand feeder in Fig. 54. The builder of these shelters found her so positive about
her rights--since she discovered the food supply--that he has been obliged to put up the others
to keep peace.

The window-sill lunch counter shown in Figs. 58 and 61 is a most effective way to study birds
at close range. The window selected for this purpose should be on a quiet and sheltered side
of the house if possible. If trees and shrubbery are near at hand birds are more likely to
be attracted. Branches of thorn apples, alders and evergreens are fastened firmly to the window
frames to dress the lunch counter on the outside while house plants or at least a curtain should
be placed on the inside as a screen. Fig. 59 shows how particular varieties of birds may be
attracted by offering favorite foods while Fig. 60 gives an idea of what kindness will do.

FOODS.

Food shelters become centers of interest in proportion to the number of birds attracted to
them. The kind of food placed there determines in time the kind of birds that will be found
frequenting them. Seed-eating birds are readily attracted by the use of small grains such as
oats and wheat. However, every farmer finds a quantity of weed seeds upon cleaning his seed
grain, which proves very acceptable to chickadees and blue jays. Bread crusts or crumbs, crackers
and doughnuts may be placed in the food shelter with the knowledge that the birds will eat
them. For those of the city who would need to buy seeds, it will be just as well to get hemp,
millet, canary seed and sunflower seed, together with the small grains and cracked corn for
foods. Suet, scraps of meat and various vegetable scraps, such as celery, lettuce, apples,
raisins, and the berries of various bushes, if they can be obtained, are relished. Bluebirds
seem fond of meal worms such as develop in old cereals. All birds require water and frequently
suffer because this is not to be had. If it is possible to meet this need a great service is
rendered. Finally, when the ground is snow covered, many birds appreciate a supply of sand
and finely ground poultry grit. Many birds are lost each winter because of insufficient food
during inclement weather, that if cared for would remain near neighbors in the summer to wage
war upon insect pests.

BIRD BATHS.

The best bird baths have to meet two requirements: (a) clean, fresh water, and (b) safety from
enemies. Almost any shallow dish will meet both requirements if properly placed and cared for.

Fig. 62 shows several baths made of concrete. The pedestal and basin are made of two separate
pieces, and are cast in a form or mold. A more difficult concrete bath is shown in Fig. 63.
This project is made in four pieces. The base consists of two parts, the bottom being cast
in a form made of 1/2" or 7/8" stock. The upper part is "swept up" by means of the templet
shown, which revolves about an iron rod or a dowel-rod firmly fastened above, and held below
in a hole bored in a temporary base of wood. The column is cast in a mold made of sheet tin
or galvanized iron run thru tinners' rolls, and held by means of several wires twisted about
it. When this is being cast two pieces of iron rod are inserted as shown which are to pass
into both bowl and base to make the whole job firm. The bowl may be swept by either of two
methods. The first consists of the making of two templets. With the first templet a core of
clay is swept up of the desired depth and diameter. Then concrete is placed over this core,
which has previously been treated to a coat of oil. Woven wire is cut into a circular shape
and bent to approximate the curve of the bowl. More concrete is placed over this, and swept
up by means of the second templet. Some difficulty will be experienced in removing the templet
if undercut as much as shown; however, the mark where it was taken off can easily be troweled
smooth again. The finished pieces are now assembled with a small quantity of "neat" cement
in each joint. The second method for making the bowl begins with the making of templets cut
on the opposite side of the outline, as compared with the first method. A box is then nailed
up and a clay or plaster-of-paris base made. This is oiled, and the concrete put in place.
In this case a wetter mixture than in the first case should be used. The second templet is
then used to strike off the inside of the bowl. After this has set the pieces may be assembled
as before.

BIRD ENEMIES.

One sometimes wonders that birds manage to exist and to actually increase in numbers. Possibly
the first group of enemies should include men and boys who kill adult birds, leaving the fledglings
to starve, or who rob the nests of eggs. It is the writer's belief that every boy who makes
one or more of the projects in this booklet, and sees it occupied, will become one of a growing
number who will care for instead of destroy the birds of his neighborhood. Further, if every
man who now thoughtlessly or willfully destroys birds, knew the real money value of the work
birds do, he would build or buy houses and food shelters to increase Nature's best friends
to mankind.

The second group of enemies include ants and other vermin which at times infest nests and nesting
boxes, snakes, squirrels, mice and rats. Protection against this group is afforded by bands
of tin about the pole, or spikes of wood or metal pointing downward so that access is impossible
by climbing up the pole. Another protection is to make the entrance holes small enough to admit
only the occupant for whom the house was intended. Of course, the houses for the larger birds
must be protected in other ways. Charles Tesch of Milwaukee suggests a sticky fly paper compound
made of resin (melted) and castor oil as a preventive for the inroads of the small red ant,
if suitable support is available.

The final group consists of the two worst foes of bird life, cats and English or house sparrows.
If you really value the birds that have been reared in the house you have built you may need
to get up early more than one morning when the youngsters leave the nest to protect them from
the highly respectable (?) tabby that lives possibly next door if not at your own house. It
often comes to a choice between cats and birds: and the cats may be disposed of in two ways--the
right kind of box traps for the homeless and unknown robbers, and an air rifle with sufficient
"sting" for the trespasser from next door. A few lessons of this kind usually have some effect.

The English or house sparrow was introduced into this country about a half-century ago. It
has spread over practically all of the United States and Southern Canada. Possibly no bird
has exhibited such powers of adapting itself to new conditions. The sparrow is no respecter
of places for locating its nest. It lives on a variety of foods changing from one to another
as the necessity arises. In spite of opposition, this bird is constantly on the increase, so
much so that in many cases more desirable native birds have been obliged to leave. The sparrow
is filthy and quarrelsome, and lives mainly upon valuable small grains in every case where
this is possible. There are two methods possible which afford partial relief: (1) traps and
(2) driving them away with an air-rifle. Traps are usually successful for a comparatively brief
time, since the sparrows soon associate the trap with danger and so avoid it. A very successful
type of woven wire trap is advocated by the Department of Agriculture but is probably beyond
the ability of the average boy to make well. It sells by commercial manufacturers of bird supplies
for about $4.00. This trap works all the year around as it depends upon the attraction of food.
Fig. 65 gives a simple, yet effective trap. However, it requires the presence of some hidden
observer to spring it at the right moment. Another type of trap is based upon the nest-house
idea. Its effectiveness is limited largely to the nesting season, though it may be used by
the birds for shelter. One of the most efficient traps was invented by Charles Tesch, of Milwaukee,
Wis. Its principle is that of a tipping chamber leading into a sack thru a chute. Fig. 64 gives
the dimensions to be followed in making such a trap. The inventor says that the bag should
be far enough away from the box to make certain that the victim has no chance to tell the others
what happened to him by chirping, otherwise they will no longer enter the trap. The box must
be perfectly tight in order to prevent drafts from issuing thru the entrance which will cause
sparrows to keep away. If a few feathers are glued or shellacked to the tipping chamber floor,
the sparrow is often attracted more strongly. The bag should be examined frequently to liberate
bluebirds and wrens, who may have been caught.

However, fighting bird enemies without the cooperation of neighbors is not an easy matter.
In the case of sparrows, so many more are left that traps alone are ineffective. An airgun
properly used offers some help in the city to drive them away from the premises, while a shot
gun or 22 caliber rifle are more effective in the country. If every sparrow nest were torn
down and no place given them in your neighborhood, the pest is likely to avoid your grounds.
Finally, keep nesting boxes free from sparrows while the owners are away for the winter.

BIRD HOUSE EXHIBITIONS.

Many cities are beginning to do excellent work along the lines of bird preservation and attraction.
This usually leads into an exhibition or contest, though many times quantities of houses are
made and sold for other purposes, such as raising money for athletic suits for the school teams.

At Cleveland, Ohio, a large number of houses such as are shown in Figs. 15-19 were made for
the city Bird Lovers' Association to be placed in the city parks. The boys received the profits
of the sale after materials were paid for. In the Mercer Center, Seattle, Wash., the boys wanted
suits for the "team." Bird houses were made in dozen lots for a large department store, and
soon the boys had all the money the suits cost. Fig. 36 shows a group of 7th grade boys with
the houses made in two class periods of two hours each. At St. Paul, Minn., the annual exhibit
has become a larger affair than the automobile show. This year it will be held in the city
auditorium which seats 10,000 people. The city council will pay the rent of this building for
a week and the boys will see that it is filled with bird houses. Up to date (March 11, 1916)
over $1,000 worth of orders have been taken for houses to be delivered after the exhibition.
Fig. 62 shows the palm room at the St. Paul exhibit in 1915. The county making the most bird
houses in 1915, so far as has been reported, was Allegheny County, Pa., where approximately
15,000 houses were produced. Fig. 67 shows the prize winners in a department store contest
at Pittsburgh, Pa., while an exhibit in the same city is shown in Fig. 66.

Space will not permit giving extended rules for such contests since the rules must vary with
each city. Briefly, there should be provision made to give all competitors an equal chance.
Boys of the 6th grade should meet others of that grade. Prizes may be awarded for the best
houses made for the more common birds, such as wrens, bluebirds, and martins. These should
be judged as to adaptability or fitness to purpose, amount of protection afforded to birds,
good workmanship and artistic merit. A prize might be awarded to the boy whose house has the
first pair of birds nesting in it. Prizes may be of many kinds, but tools and books, as well
as cash prizes are often given by local business men.

WHERE MORE INFORMATION MAY BE OBTAINED.

U. S. Dept. of Agriculture, Division of Publications: Bird Houses and How to Build Them, Bulletin
No. 609; Fifty Common Birds, Bulletin No. 513 (15 cents); The English Sparrow as a Pest, Bulletin
No. 493.

Magazines which have published articles on birds and bird houses: Bird Lore; Country Life;
The Craftsman; Elementary School Teacher; Ladies' Home Journal; Manual Training and Vocational
Education; Outing; Outlook; School Arts Magazine; Something To Do; The Farm Journal; The National
Geographic Magazine; Youths Companion.

National Association of Audubon Societies: Leaflets, photographs, advice.

Liberty Bell Bird Club of The Farm Journal, Philadelphia, Pa.: Leaflets, books, pictures, supplies,
inspiration.

Public Library: Reed, "Bird Guide"; Blackburn, "Problems in Farm Woodwork"; Chapman, "Bird
Life"; Hiesemann, "How to Attract Wild Birds"; National Geographic Society, "Common Birds of
Town and Country"; Trafton, "Methods of Attracting Birds."

Catalogs of Bird House Companies: Audubon Bird House Co., Meriden, New Hampshire; "Bird Architecture"
Crescent Co., Toms River, N. J. (20 cents); Joseph H. Dodson, 728 Security Bldg., Chicago,
Ill.; "Bird Houses Large and Small," Mathews Mfg. Co., Cleveland, Ohio; Charles E. White, Box
45B, Kenilworth, Ill.; The Wheatley Pottery, 2429 Reading Road, Cincinnati, Ohio. INTEREST

A popular boys' book that is truly educational. The projects are all new in the manual training
shop. The text gives instructions for making each project and treats of tools and tool processes.
The following is a partial list--

Windmills Kites Water Wheels Water Motors Pumps Boat Pile Driver Kite String Reel Cannon Darts
Buzzers Tops Guns Whistles Bow and Arrows Swords Boxes Telephone

THIRTY-FIVE FULL-PAGE PLATES OF WORKING DRAWINGS

PRICE, POSTPAID, $1.15

       *       *       *       *       *

KITECRAFT AND KITE TOURNAMENTS

By CHARLES M. MILLER Assistant Supervisor of Manual Training Los Angeles, California

KITES--AEROPLANES--TOURNAMENTS

A comprehensive and reliable treatment of kites and kite flying. Mr. Miller, the author of
the book, for a number of years past, has made a wonderful success of kite flying in the schools
of Los Angeles, California. The book deals with general kite construction, tells how to make
all kinds of kites and how to fly them. Describes kite accessories and how to decorate kites.
It also describes the construction and use of moving devices, messengers, suspended figures
and appliances, balloons and parachutes.

Four chapters treat of aeroplanes, gliders and model aeroplanes, together with one on propellers,
motors, gears and winding devices.

The book contains over 267 illustrations, photographs, drawings, and diagrams.

PRICE, POSTPAID, $1.50

       *       *       *       *       *

THE MANUAL ARTS PRESS, PEORIA, ILLINOIS

CHOICE BOOKS FOR BOYS

       *       *       *       *       *

FOR HOME AND SCHOOL LIBRARIES

DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION IN WOOD.

=BY WILLIAM NOYES.= A book full of charm and distinction and the first to give due consideration
to the esthetic side of woodworking. It is intended to give to beginners practice in designing
simple projects in wood and an opportunity to acquire skill in handling tools. The book illustrates
a series of projects and gives suggestions for other similar projects together with information
regarding tools and processes for making. A pleasing volume abundantly and beautifully illustrated.
Price, $1.75.

HANDWORK IN WOOD.

=BY WILLIAM NOYES.= A handbook for teachers and a textbook for normal school and college students.
The best reference book available for teachers of woodworking. A comprehensive and scholarly
treatise, covering logging, saw-milling, seasoning and measuring, hand tools, wood fastenings,
equipment and care of the shop, the common joints, types of wood structures, principles of
joinery, and wood finishing. Price, $2.25.

WOOD AND FOREST.

=BY WILLIAM NOYES.= Treats of wood, distribution of American forests, life of the forest, enemies
of the forest, destruction, conservation and uses of the forest, with a key to the common woods
by Filibert Roth. Describes 67 principal species of wood with maps of the habitat, leaf drawings,
life size photographs and microphotographs of sections. Contains a general bibliography of
books and articles on wood and forest. Profusely illustrated with photographs from the United
States forest service and with pen and ink drawings by Anna Gausmann Noyes and photographs
by the author. Price, $3.50.

ESSENTIALS OF WOODWORKING.

=BY IRA S. GRIFFITH.= A clear and comprehensive treatment of woodworking tools, materials,
and processes. It is illustrated with photographs and numerous pen drawings. The standard textbook
for students beginning woodworking. Price, 75 cents.

ART METALWORK.

=BY ARTHUR F. PAYNE.= A textbook written by an expert craftsman and experienced teacher. It
treats of the various materials and their production, ores, alloys, commercial forms, etc.;
of tools and equipments suitable for the work; the inexpensive equipment of the practical craftsman;
and of the correlation of art metalwork with design and other school subjects. It describes
in detail all the processes involved in making articles ranging from a watch fob to a silver
loving-cup. It is abundantly and beautifully illustrated, showing work done by students under
ordinary school conditions in a manual training shop. The standard book on the subject. Price,
$2.00. FOR EITHER HOME OR SCHOOL USE

PROBLEMS IN FARM WOODWORK.

=BY SAMUEL A. BLACKBURN.= A book of working drawings of 100 practical problems relating to
agriculture and farm life. There are 60 full-page plates of working drawings, each accompanied
by a page or more of text treating of "Purpose," "Material," "Bill of Stock," "Tools," "Directions"
and "Assembly." A wonderfully practical book. Price, $1.25.

PROJECTS FOR BEGINNING WOODWORK AND MECHANICAL DRAWING.

=BY IRA S. GRIFFITH.= Consists of working drawings and working directions. The projects are
such as have proved of exceptional service where woodworking and mechanical drawing are taught
in a thoro, systematic manner in the seventh and eighth grades. The 50 projects in the book
have been selected and organized with the constant aim of securing the highest educational
results. Price, $1.00.

PROBLEMS IN WOODWORKING.

=BY M. W. MURRAY.= A convenient collection of good problems consisting of 40 plates of working
drawings of problems in bench work that have been successfully worked out by boys in grades
seven to nine, inclusive. Price 75 cents.

PROBLEMS IN FURNITURE MAKING.

=BY FRED D. CRAWSHAW.= Contains 43 full-page working drawings of articles of furniture. Every
piece shown is appropriate and serviceable in the home. In addition to the working drawings,
there is a perspective sketch of each article completed. There 36 pages of text giving notes
on the construction of each project, chapters on the "Design," and "Construction" of furniture,
and one on "Finishes." Price, $1.00.

FURNITURE MAKING--ADVANCED PROJECTS IN WOODWORK.

=BY IRA S. GRIFFITH.= Consists of 50 plates of problems and accompanying notes. It is essentially
a collection of problems in furniture making, selected and designed with reference to school
use. On the plate with each working drawing is a good perspective sketch of the completed object.
In draftsmanship and refinement of design these problems are of superior quality. It is in
every respect an excellent collection. Price, 95 cents.

PROBLEMS IN WOOD-TURNING.

=BY FRED D. CRAWSHAW.= A textbook on the science and art of wood-turning. Contains 25 full-page
plates of working drawings covering spindle, face-plate, and chuck turning. It is a clear,
practical and suggestive book on wood-turning, and a valuable textbook for students' use. Price,
50 cents.

PROBLEMS IN MECHANICAL DRAWING.

=BY CHARLES A. BENNETT.= With drawings made by Fred D. Crawshaw. A students' textbook consisting
of 80 plates classified into groups according to principle and arranged according to difficulty
of solution. Price, 75 cents.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE MANUAL ARTS PRESS, PEORIA, ILLINOIS

       *       *       *       *       *

Index has been added to the Table of Contents.

Some illustrations have been moved to paragraph breaks to prevent the breakup of text. Page
references match the original book. Descriptive titles in parentheses have been added to images
which originally had only a Fig. number for a caption.

Page 13: FIG. 8. A MARTIN COLONYS was changed to A MARTIN COLONY.

Page 14: The two occurrences of Pere Gynt were changed to Peer Gynt.

Page 15: thoroly was changed to thoroughly.

Page 51: oposite was changed to opposite.

Page 54, now Page 52: shellaced was changed to shellacked.

Templet(s) used 7 times; retained.

Thru, used 3 times; retained.

Page 63: thoro; retained.