"His memory haunts me with an enduring curse," cried Isobel, bitterly. "Among my papers I had
some letters of his, the marriage certificate, and his written promise not to molest me.  On
that awful night when the ship was disabled, I went to my cabin and secured them, or thought
I did.  At any rate, I could not find them when we landed on White Horse Island, and, from
hints dropped by that wretched little adventurer, de Poincilit, I feel sure they have fallen
into his hands.  Believe me, Elsie, I was half mad when I helped him to steal the boat."

"Steal the boat!  What boat?"

"Has not Captain Courtenay told you?"

"Not a word."

"Ah, he is a true gentleman.  But you forget.  You heard what he said to de Poincilit before
he went to the Guanaco cañon?"

"Yes; I did not understand.  Oh, my poor Isobel, how you must have suffered, while I have been
so happy."

"If only I could recover my papers--"

"May I ask Arthur to help?"

"He knows the worst of me already.  One more shameful disclosure cannot add to my degradation."

"Isobel, how little you know him!"  Thus spoke Elsie, after fourteen days.  Truly there is
much enlightenment in a hug!

Monsieur le Comte Edouard de Poincilit, to his intense chagrin, found that a ship's captain
has far-reaching powers when he chooses to exert them.  Rather than enter a Montevidean jail,
where people have died suddenly of nasty fevers, he not only restored the missing documents
but submitted to a close scrutiny of his own belongings, which resulted in the pleasing discovery
that he was not a French count, but a denizen of Martinique--most probably a defaulting valet
or clerk.  No one troubled to inquire further about him.  His passage money was refunded and
he was bundled ashore.  Courtenay's view was that he had heard, by some means, of Isobel's
intended departure from Valparaiso, and deemed it a good chance of winning her approval of
his countship, seeing that such titles are not subjected to serious investigation in South
America.  Suarez took his Fuegian bride up country, where Mr. Baring and Dr. Christobal established
them on a small ranch.

Isobel renewed her voyage somewhat chastened in spirit.  But her volatile nature soon survived
the shocks it had received.  By the time the Kansas put her ashore at Tilbury, to be clasped
in the arms of a timid and tearful aunt, she was ready as ever for the campaign of glory she
had mapped out in London and Paris.

And she was a success, too.  Her father's victory over the copper ring, her own adventures,
which lost nothing in the telling, and her vivacious self-confidence, carried her into society
with a whirl. Recently, her engagement to an impecunious peer was announced.

      *      *      *      *      *      *

Captain Courtenay, R.N., and his wife are not such distinguished personages, but their romance
had a sequel worthy of its unusual beginning.  They were married quietly a week after the Kansas
reached London.  There was some war scare in full blast at the moment, and a Lord of the Admiralty
who deigned to read the newspapers thought it was a pity that a smart sailor should not risk
his life for his country rather than in behalf of base commerce.  So he looked up Courtenay's
record, and found that it was excellent, the young lieutenant's reason for resigning his commission
being the necessity of supporting his mother when her estate was swept away by a bank failure.
The Sea Lords made him a first-rate offer of reinstatement in the service, at a higher rank,
without any loss of seniority, and they went about the business with such dignified leisure
that Dr. Christobal had time to find out, through men whom he could trust, that Elsie's small
estate in Chile contained one of the richest mines in the country.  He secured a bid of many
thousands of pounds for it, and advised Mrs.