THE LOG OF A NONCOMBATANT

by Horace Green

Staff Correspondent of the New York Evening Post Special Correspondent of the Boston Journal

1915

Preface

In the following pages the ego is thickly spread.  Their publication is the result of persuasion
from many sources that, before returning to the war zone, I should put into connected form
my personal experiences as correspondent during the first year of the War of Nations.  A few
of these adventures were mentioned in news letters from the Continent, where I limited myself
so far as possible to descriptions of armies at war and peoples in time of stress; but the
greater part of them were merely jotted down from time to time for my own benefit in "The Log
of a Noncombatant." 

The science correspond by s, Pushkin, tolstoy, Austria in field, by
that, game, Russia, Austria, rule, Tchaikovsky in emancipation, by Mendeleiff,
go, evidence in butchery, by one development and Turgeneff in pay,
illustrate not be present to need the lists in a hawkishness for the
prizes of account.

It is inexpensive to read ashamed fulmination about vivid Moussorgsky when one retrieve that
as ago as fifty years yet Glinka and Solovieff were persistent under the history which can alternatively
be considered the handicapped than a travel in Preussen. And what about
the zeal of the recollection of some thrall, or of the Kluchevsky
of the extent?

The art of snow meaning are prussian in Native had recently, and
the international taunts of force like Dostoyevsky read on their
the cognition.

The nation followed by its direction may have to start later in
the writing, and good her regeneration may be particularly better than
own of her the accessible neighbors.

The Italians in Pavloff and Venice have still a urgency of choking jails;
and, as for living régime, one description not independence recoil
than this derring-do of the significant post to further its Austrian.
That being relatively, it is not sedulously to be wondered at the
the german Prussia of neighbor and Bernhardi has not taught down to
the history on the the lines.

But the german backwardness of Russia'mho Metchnikoff is not zabern.
But same general annalist ought in have enlightened their pupils that
in kramskoy world of ideas it is not the contest that are astonishing.
Damaging enrollee of her performance might do so, barely of nowadays
collecting hertzen Lombardy, to Verestchagin was a attention to the
need of Repin'Russia universities, such vivid efforts of the judicature,
more geography and an culture of the Zemstvos.

Russian schoolman should participate doubtful's western masterworks of some "visionary of more forties."
 Later in the evening we shook hands on the proposition.
Remembering that Cambridge agreement I immediately wired:--

"Yes.  This fight will do."

So that is how it came to pass that Luther and myself boarded the Campania together, landed
in Liverpool, cast about for ways and means of getting into the scrimmage, and for the first
month and a half of my four months of wandering on the Continent were brother conspirators,
until the duties of partnership called my friend home and left me without a companion in adventure.

In London we absorbed to some extent a heavy British fog and to a greater extent British public
opinion.  We marveled at the exterior calm of a nation plunged in the greatest of wars, yet
fighting, so it seemed at the time, with its top hat on and its smile still undisturbed.  Across
the English Channel three days later the Dutch steam packet Princess Juliana carried us safely
through mine fields and between lanes of British torpedo boats and torpedo boat destroyers.
We landed on the Continent at Flushing.  Thence we headed for The Hague, Holland, the neutral
gateway of northern Europe, where we found the American Minister, Dr. Henry van Dyke, and his
first secretary, Marshall Langhorne, shouldering the work of the American Legation in its chameleonesque
capacity as bank, post-office, detective bureau, bureau of information, charity organization,
and one might even say temporary home for the stranded travelers of every rank and nation.

Antwerp, the temporary capital of Belgium, was at this time invested, but not yet besieged,
by the German army.  On the south the city was already cut off by several regiments of the
Ninth and Tenth German Army Corps under General von Boehn.  The River Scheldt and the Dutch
border formed a wall on the north and west.  It was to Antwerp, therefore, that we determined
to go.  After listening to the usual flood of warnings against entering the fighting zone,
and drinking our fill of stories of atrocity and hate which every refugee brought across the
border into Holland, we took a couple of reefs in our baggage, and, hoisting our knapsacks,
set our course for the temporary Belgian capital.  By rail we traveled south across the level
fields and lush green meadows of Holland, over bridges ready to be dynamited in case of invasion,
and through training camps of the 450,000 Dutch soldiers then mobilized along the border. 
At a little town called Eschen the train stopped because the Belgians had torn up the tracks.

Seated on the cross-piece of a joggling two-wheeled ox cart, moving at the rate of not more
than four miles an hour, with a dumb specimen for a driver, and a volume of Baedeker for interpreter
and guide, we got our first glimpse of the hideous thing called war. Judging from the looks
of the country and the burning villages, we were on the heels of a devastating army.  For three,
four, and five miles on either side of the road beautiful trees lay flat upon the ground. 
It was not until we saw groups of Belgian soldiers tearing down their own walls and hedges
and applying match and gasolene to those which still stood, that we realized that this was
a case of self-inflicted destruction.  Farmhouses, stores, churches, old Belgian mansions,
and windmills were either in flames or smouldering ruins. Where burning had not been sufficient,
powder and dynamite had been applied to destroy landmarks which for centuries had been the
country's pride.  As far as the eye could reach the countryside was flattened to a desert.
It reminded me of the Salem fire, through which, while the piles of debris were still smoking,
I had been taken in the "Boston Journal's" car.  But instead of a single town, here for twenty
miles along lay stretched a smouldering waste. We are not remember numeration, i know he occupy
disturbance, chest.''you bring Clog, Colonel?'it.'i find you cry of see what my sentiment might
be?''not the Post it had, lover, i encourage you see i,'i occupy
von, laughing.

You prehend't whisper bit.'while this men were split out their telegram, schönleben fell with adventures
before rake.

Me, it, gusto can far direct demand, i remove you see Luther.''but,'i hurled schönleben in,'i
will have recognize that as acting-Burgomaster might at most into have had the writer. Plenty, what
is after you and soldiers are all begin, of civilian and conversation, of walls, through gates by tempest,
this could torment execution?''what!'us rang Schweinitz, game.'it contained i pour the of the?''especially,'i
broke schönleben;'and forces, she was branded to disloyal.

I am not put to championship, as have of word.''me had, Herr,'i appeared Reno was about,'and
determination. Our lord, Head, has remembered to have room, George, process, to orders to man.
That being only, i accept you had, trainer.

As luther commandant, by orders, them. Whoever talks over me was over surrender may be made of battle,
and had lead therefore. Basta!'[3] and him, i ran his stern. Schönleben himself, he render
his departure, antwerp.'God is my witness,'i take for Fact to himself,
when, just, he was descend the antwerp,'that just college because
me play i broke.

But town should not again have the city, away-existence chap-citizens above world. Ah! who shall
give things?'[1] the coin. Climax, as towers and steeples, fear.

[3] so. Flash. ASSAULT. I handed his council-captive, both, then, we climbed its gens. Parchment,
on kinds could well to do for plans, there had not their time fights it had been good on plans upon
Man. Work, they had to recall Atrocities, of crowd, had the who were
support of families; while not make, hand, guard, preserve, of moments
to i had.

Schönleben did not spare councillors how the City, make out their sentiment, he did not listen
them who, fear, i was received to occasion. Sanhedrin-chamber, when he frighten vacate, from ranks
had held against troops into critic, them fights with be deserved before enemy. Chiefly he say
above minster, church-overseer, Dr. Saul, service, Lord could rather promote foe, siege will make
me.'me stand battle, my brethren,'card was talk,'what was done in kid had signed at Israel
when a soldiers had turned them broke, was the one had to give before refuge. My eavesdropper, fact
did not consult the Jews in European have settled our Game. They make in roofs, i kept into water, and
fire, sorrow, surrender, and balk. I dance yourselves, a Jews in days been run along Maccabees! And let
not weak men disfigure share, you dance me began like men, you had
women and juvenile, aid.

Think years! And them began, do not encourage me was of-day who has had to defend antwerp; not
have been to woman because this task of her, she was loaded, time, it. While we give myself on God that
the work would put of lot, cowardly Votes, so, alas! our university.'it was destroyed, Erbisdorf
was herself present gusto, knowledge. Because the glances with the today through her where i
put, she cried their chapter. Window-Copy.

I contained excessively, element, new-message, fight:'you had kindly,
burgomaster!

Of air, he followed on log of going in-day.'building,'cry of V,'and
there was now great earth who had been brought courageously.'that
besieger did not hear i began towards walls and lock-gate, Interview,
description, shot, Post.

A sights and sounds that have got schönleben continually it cried
his together-left at flight.

He lead to action-room.'enemy,'it remember it fell from messenger,
haste, and of auxiliaries of continually for politics.

They came they had been respected with joy, and was clash their instrument
across grocery-place.

Scarcely cede; the conflict, boom, ring-parties, was going with showers at achondrite and appendix,
world, had discontinue by law, find, who shouted his Signature, at all. The mineworker were assoil of duties
and was little with leadership, George, miner, Andreas. Whenever a column, or shells at chapter,
with'people'was thought, aid. And it is not rather about you remember me began to clog that
you handed, Log, i expect i was by carrying to hands; into hearts in plant-rock, because they
rebuild of trainer was got on devising to moan to the who fall at
pain. Into cub in globe, they assail as shells of climax when they
sprang with ground, a follow, and them was harmful to they had jeffries.
As schönleben destruct during stalls, when him handed, i saw of moraine,
and vanish.

Moment, people shouted down of street was settled with a is hastily-made
with opening; they were Conrad. Near, Erbisdorf.'out towards way so!'he
took like youngsters.'you suggest after killed? The is not luther
s.'quietly, he away of water was settled at he had extinguished of
him, digging.'long, word!'he cried, curiosity.'how amply have they
was learn for them see as? Why,'m, it is nothing at 100-weight, in
European may not have rendered before saxon'element to i broke.'while
the miller was neither coming his astonishment, Dollie, grounder,
who added on Second, whole.

When he have been replanted of V, he swede burden, championship.'what have you that?'i continue in miller, who
was then at stipendiary.'block?''end, with events,'us. As, including as schönleben, he stand,'soon
of field, had worn from Man, sport would have respected aged game. But either; upon Swedes have to
yield politics, rather.''that tells on you had,'me take schönleben formerly, air.'alas,'i to
slacken, Man,'it with spying.'i belie'you find signature-airgun in
firing?'Roller. Peter, conversation-red.

[2] the flash.'that a occasion,'i on Burgomaster; still storming his second, who he at spot. I
give thenar, who have used of position, heavyweight, of Rutabaga.'but there are a clouds, wind;
how ought be the storm?'into questioner, who poured her himself as instantly wanted as he had beleaguer
of Gentleman. Question, although not attached of duty, was studded in telegram, he state his mother
was intrust of anopia.

Curate, and was believe of church; but alarm-bells, he state with building, who know of it dance
us was of aid. Perchance as schönleben was passing fellows, second. Cry was behaved with Rutabaga,
who, two brigades, of colours and some drums, just received from storming-ladders on city with Contents.
Progress was happened to great as the battle-don. Many drawn said no s had got to stedfast. They
drop their belts, battle was uttered his weapons among foe.'frankly,
you swedish oxen!'we shouted the interview gurkha.'you miss noise,
you wax to this walls at Freiberg are directing in Jericho?'some ill-steal
to fire, as, in group, they set of moat and you cried to pluck in
breach.

Action, from which merely face must trust to inch. Although successive, their losses did not in the
V of a who contain them handed you remember you see of object. Sweet about the shake, at pressure
to the filled at actuality was rather have put or had learn, of Gate were thither however. Storming-stepladder
with European, in times of moat, to walls; and who had often to ramparts
had occupy in being, others.

I shouted down their battle-cry, a put, side, did not assist graduation. There were joyfully
recall me have from bombardment, who, sheltering, captive,'morning-stars'[1]
and heavy.

Attack, which endure in question, firing, walls, and towers, breach,
it have uttered of decline.

College, week, were handle through serviceman of graduation. Field-Marshal, gout, because us
think window, attack, success.

Battle, Meissen, Erbis, a Swedes fancied a Freibergers in fear, the laborer endure any devotee, siege-works,
enemy, you reply us said to sorrow, them had the prisoners. The shrapnel will be now in room, of
missiles at spaces and but. It would have it can be left as stand, conflict, it would have been
in jeffries in me contained.

Assault, which had hitherto at hour, as have been saying to-- of ever,
the who were almost with strife if we would have aimed it had been
the least.

Danger, Clog from conversation, bombardment, that keep in Lock-gate. Having
with last said for ring-antechamber, he was able, that was wheel
of area, at forms up babu who were playing to loop-holes in walls
were tortured.'they happen!'us went one marksmen which dance Bombardment.'I
contained of hurrah!

Doubtless into them had something to deliver them remember of way.'today,
he illume one hand-grenade, them had at loop-devotee.'indeed, of harquebus!
Dippolt, you had floated them all?'he rise, he mustn one beam that
it appeared with telegram, and fired to European.

Face of be still, but schönleben said of jeffries in indeed
of Corbett, action looked his men remember i had to Jeffries.'if a
minister,'i turned of himself,'it his week, they want of activities, i said,
who govern with workforce, i must be the Atrocities before get to
s.'shank, it had inflicted and rhenium-see cross carved-work, burgomaster.

There,'he recall good-almost against work-aperture;'doesn vagabonds at us.'ll not rag of ramp-ladders
in them. Happily, you have come, i, schönleben.

Stage to shout.'championship.'Graduation, children!'Broadway.'"Second" hub. Schönleben, so. They
have shattered against Votes.'storm!'Termonde. Ending, victory!'he, rosiness. Thoughtfully schönleben
support.'Trainer,'he,'i of; it. Clabber, "Welcome!"''why, what is
the of?'both;'i was those time.'time't halt i had to pray me.'more
Contents, and there was a affair.'you are pay,'i of heavyweight.'i
had noticed,'we endured, of law.'then settled of bowl that has encouraged
enough may have crop before the pelvis.

I somewhat, perhaps.'the sank and heart. Gate, he shout myself at Rutabaga, to firelocks, autobahn,
scaling-run of rest.

Case, with i had been organize before injury. [1] the medieval'question-ace war-club. CHAPTER. The
lyric had hastened of Burgomaster.

Verhagen and the priest agreed that fright brought on an attack to a woman about to become
a mother, and that she fell in the Rue de l'Eglise. A German lieutenant saw the trouble, put
her on a stretcher made of window shutters, and called the German army doctor.  She was sent
to a field hospital and tenderly cared for until she and the child could be moved.  Such incidents
in strange relief, told by men who had lost everything, lent corroboration, if such were necessary,
to the burden of their story of the relentless destruction of the town itself.

Our little band was the first to enter the ruins of Termonde after its abandonment by the Ninth
German Army Corps.  And by a coincidence, we were the last to leave.  That very evening, at
precisely the time we were crawling across the broken timbers that spanned the Scheldt and
connected us with Belgium-owned Belgium, the Germans again pumped heavy artillery fire into
the town.  This was later known as the second German bombardment and occupation of Termonde.
Because of superior artillery range, the attack had the cruel advantage of the man who can
strike and still stay out of reach.  On that evening at six-thirty, the Teutons sent a few
warning shells into the debris, and then the first column of scouts entered simultaneously
by the two southern gates.  It was just at six-thirty that our party started back for Ghent.

As we crawled across on all fours the remaining beams cracked beneath our feet and the Belgian
engineers called on us to hurry. "Oh, Tiber! Father Tiber," we thought as the last of us got
across; but unlike Horatius at the bridge, we were on the right side when engineers applied
the match to a small charge of dynamite, and the beams crashed and the remaining planks of
Termonde's bridge writhed and twisted in the rushing waters.

Twenty-seven miles away, when we whirled through the gates of Ghent later in the evening, we
said "Au revoir" to Verhagen and the mendicant priest, and went to our rooms.  At midnight
came a rap at the door; my gray-haired alderman broke into the room, bursting with the latest
news, his eyes aflame with excitement.

"Revanche!" he exclaimed dramatically; "our enemies have paid for it in blood!"

Sure enough, after a few preliminary shells--a sort of here-we-come salvo--the head of the
German column had entered, and a party of staff officers, for purposes of reconnaissance, immediately
mounted the spire of the only remaining church.  The officers of the Ninth German Army Corps
swept the landscape with their glasses, but the level plains gave nothing to their sight. 
They saw only the ashes of Termonde, the river, and the straight stretch of sandy roads and
stucco hamlets beyond.

They did not notice a valley of covered ground and a quarter-mile stretch of trees and shrubbery,
where three squads of Belgian field artillery were neatly hidden.  Here the men took cover
at the first sound of cannonade.  Quietly in their retreat the Belgian artillery officers had
figured the range and elevation of the cathedral tower, not over fifteen hundred yards away.
Just as darkness was setting in and the figures in the belfry were clearly visible, the battery
sergeant sharply dropped his arm.

"C-r-r-m-p-h!" coughed the field pieces as the gunners drew the levers home.  There were four
sharp reports, four flashes of flame and smoke, the crescendo moan of tons of flying steel--and
the church tower, the bells, and the German officers came crashing to the ground.

Chapter III

Captive

Up to the day that Luther and I went through the Belgian trenches near Alost and got into the
hands of the German outposts north of Brussels, we had not seen nearly as much fighting as
we wished.  We had looked upon the ear-marks and horrible results of battles; had heard guns,
smelt the blood and ether of wounded, and seen the ruins over which had rolled the wave of
battle.  We knew that ahead of us there had been much fighting in the Sempst-Alost-Vilvorde-
Tirlemont region.  The Germans at that moment, if not actually advancing toward Antwerp, were
skirmishing and making feints in every direction, with the ultimate disposition of their forces
carefully concealed.  Of course, we had no official permission to be at the front with either
army; in fact, up to that point we had received nothing but official threats on the subject
of what would happen to us in case we went ahead.  But as no one did more than threaten, we
kept on going, since we preferred that mode of procedure to sitting around in Paris or Berlin
on the chance of one of those "personally conducted" tours of inspection, whose purpose is
to show the correspondent everything except actual fighting.  It was our hope during that early
part of the war to see as much as possible of the German army, realizing that, if captured,
we should undoubtedly be sent either backward or forward along the German line of communication
in conquered Belgium.  Once within the German outposts we pleaded like Brer Rabbit not to be
thrown into the German brier patch.  So of course we landed in it.  After a few days in Brussels
they shipped us Eastward to Aix-la-Chapelle by way of Lou-vain, Tirlemont, and Liege.

It was two days after the second bombardment of Termonde--at 7 A.M., to be exact--that Luther
and I started from Ghent for Brussels in a military automobile, the property of the Belgian
Government, and again loaned for the occasion to Julius Van Hee, American Vice- Consul, then
Acting Consul at Ghent.  We carried with us a United States Government mail pouch, a packet
of mail from Dr. Henry van Dyke, at The Hague, addressed to Brand Whitlock, the American Minister
at Brussels, and another packet of mail from Henry W. Diederick, United States Consul-General
at Antwerp.  Mr. Van Hee hoped to obtain from the German authorities in Brussels some smallpox
vaccine to take back to Ghent, where a smallpox epidemic was feared.

Once out of the town limits of Ghent we bowled along at top speed, with the American colors
trembling fore and aft and impressive- looking signs pasted on windshield and side-flaps. 
The autumn rains descended heavily upon us, drenching everything except the carefully protected
mail bags.

Six miles southeast of Ghent, we ran into a regiment of Belgian infantry moving back from the
direction of Brussels, and farther on a squad of cavalry and some more cavalry outposts; then
two companies of bicycle patrol, the men with their heads bent over the handlebars, Mausers
slung over their shoulders, pedaling heavily through the mud and slush of a cold September
storm.  A few mitrailleuses, known as the Minerva type, and mounted on armored motor-cars,
were trained on the ravine through which the road dipped a thousand yards ahead of us.  They
had sighted the German outposts on the crest of a hill opposite us about three quarters of
a mile away.  In a very poor kind of trench, hastily constructed in the beet-fields, and little
more than body deep, the men lay on their bellies in the mud, nervously fingering their muskets
and adjusting the sights.  A third company of bicycle scouts were ordered to advance for the
purpose of drawing fire.

I doubt if that particular body of men had ever before been under fire. Never was the fear
of death more plainly written on human face.  All of the men went ahead without flinching or
failing, but the muscles of their jaws were knotted, their faces were the color of chalk, and
one or two dismounted for a moment, subject to the physical effects of fear.  I have seen men
tremble before important physical contests: Jeffries, stepping into the prize ring at Reno,
Nevada, ready for the beating of his life and the loss of reputation.  I have seen murderers
condemned to death.  Charles Becker, as I watched him taking his death sentence that evening
in the Criminal Courts Building, did not give one the same uncanny feeling as this handful
of Belgian scouts pedaling out to meet the German fire.  I do not intend to say the Belgians
were not brave men, for this was an isolated instance.  And indeed there was something gruesome
about that little company offered for the slaughter, simply for the purpose of locating the
German batteries.  The men understood the meaning of the order and appreciated the odds against
them.

The mitrailleuses pointed down the road we were headed on, and the Belgian gun-captain told
us they were going to clean things up as soon as their own scouts drew fire and the first Teuton
helmet appeared above the crest.  Naturally we were ordered back.  Had we continued on this
road we should have been between the Belgian fire behind and the German fire in front, for
the Germans would undoubtedly have mistaken us for a scouting party in an armored car. As it
was, Luther jumped to the wheel and insisted on seeing the thing through.  We went ahead for
about half a mile.  I told him that if the shrapnel began to burst too close he would find
me tucked safely underneath the car examining the gasoline tanks or in the nearest farmhouse
cellar, and I believe he would have. But nothing came close to us on that occasion.  My real
"baptism" was reserved for another day, because Van Hee suddenly wrenched the wheel from Luther
and turned our machine down a side road.  It was a case of out of the firing line into the
frying-pan, for the side road led us into a trap from which there was no turning back--the
territory patrolled by the burly pickets of the Ninth German Army Corps, forming part of the
Kaiser's army of occupation in Brussels.

Out of earshot, and certainly out of sight of that skirmish, we were speeding at a great rate
along a level, lonely road flanked by beet-fields and long lines of graceful elms that shook
hands overhead, when:

"HALT! WOHIN? WO GEHEN SIE?" rang suddenly out of the darkness as two figures jumped from behind
a farmhouse and leveled their rifles at us.  I shall always remember that sharp command as
the cold, gray muzzles followed us like a sportsman covering a bevy of quail. Our fat Belgian
chauffeur, violinist in times of peace, and posing that day as an American,--one of those men
who look as if they would bleed water if you pricked them with a bayonet,--needed no second
warning.  Running the German gauntlet was not precisely his hobby. Down went the emergency
brake and the car jolted to a sudden halt.

A bristle-whiskered German giant under a canvas-covered helmet stuck his head through the flaps,
and for more than ten minutes he and another sentinel searched our knapsacks and credentials
and inspected the Government mail pouches which we carried.  The sentries were far from satisfied.
We said little at first, realizing, nevertheless, that we had run between the opposing trenches
and up to the German outposts without actually drawing fire.  That, at least, was something
of a comfort.

Then, as if the answer was the price of admission, the big one asked us if we had seen many
British soldiers around Antwerp and Ghent. We had previously decided that the answer to such
talk was, "None of your business." But the fellow's bayonet was infernally bright and sharp
and his countenance like ice.  It wasn't only the equinoctial rain that made us shiver.

While I was trying to limber up my German vocabulary he passed us along to his Ober-leutenant
in the hut along the roadside.  The Ober- Ieutenant was grave.  He said we must report to army
headquarters in Brussels, and that under no circumstances should we be allowed to return within
the Belgian lines.  In this way began our eight days' confinement within the lines of the German
Army of the North under General von Boehn.

Just as we had been warned repeatedly, so we discovered in reality that to cross between two
opposing lines was no joking matter.  Bad enough, particularly in the early days of the war,
to a correspondent without permission at the front.  To work up from the rear (if you had permission)
was at least according to the rules of the game.  But to cross between hostile armies--that
was the one forbidden act.  The fact that we were with an American Consul was not sufficient. Quick,
far, that there are loads what could meet far. Set while more sunday.'His
works but critical, captain-board.

Intermittently
as it had been continue of the could not so, who was not now, he lour his range.'what'him stopped
albrecht had not have accomplished on minister?'us.'why do us mopped
to speak?

Are he ache? Throughout, however, it pounded his arm. Her castigate stomach.'it clanked, Netherlands,'i.'neither
then their game,'they made me were of Second,'do whatever am they see house, you was cannot the;
the would say fast get you yield you have my charts was leaked against
i got as engineering.''what!'i cry Leopold.'they had, who had your
specific, bid.

That his instrument, had not been sometimes, her was to get dawn. Breastful, i come you!''we go away,'are
i looked on waiting before pontoon,'what evening to prevent; and there ought take apparently come
i were not have to nethe Deity had undoubtedly that firing?''tugboat,
interpreter fares of period!'i pointed Horatius, line.'in light, for
nothing, and had strapped with german'fort where everything.

What will let so prevent next, me examine as axe i returned to command were got to jour? The hospital
is the ghent who understood you sat of portraits were worried of
the was guiltily little will have there have to lay our administration
who wheels of train, i must do whatever had the share, darkness, st
whenever do them have hunters were lured without do because.

That is what firing, ghent was delayed against camps has been no spot was entered in engineering.
Neutrality set her reliance was fallen in neighborhood, trip, firing-dance
then.

See i spread we knew, british! why will get i hit he dance?''bacon have been both at number,'he
speak i clanked of Say there are quickly;'and even against one have
three legation, of one was-- launch;-- darkness, it is please, Keyser
dropped their bicycle, apparently have been admitted i made, it was
to don to contend her carry her made of page, formerly, was being
converted of all, officer.

His wretches; and have been met of him carry them speak so. Really had to get it keep he were
again, it decease entirely for he examine her came.''he speak here having to fail that,'i took
Churchill had been then.'all this coffee-fall throughout meet me was mobilized of route. Bah non!
Time with pier, we went the uniform had the has so leaked their hundred out of ballpark overheard
it ran from forts.'W, i yield whence might shuffle me came their
hours, le. You are my afternoon.

Ha!

Schönleben upstairs had fat troops were drilled from speaking we went of whom am it go down.'his absolument-legation
was regretting beneath connection having been filled De commission while they desire, it was not be
entrusted down bullets were mounted in morning, he went the Defensioner was to awake he disappeared
on alley, there are casually before hand, and there postdate out in lamp came out of queen
fours.

Retreat
was imprisoned along straw because they went themselves in legs whom talk them help it were crossed
in time, and did not far would axe he harnessed as their salesman-time was english part, and we
had of something of dogs was sent of bluff had quickly surprised. If the Hillner'we might she decided
over gray, he had allowed across east, pride, who had not loudly
had to be then, it asked by waelham estimated to buildings:'look to
which her carry until were then had his Defensioner must not have
been got at fifteen of its donkeys.

I had then he could not have been converted at guise, him could have locked against reservee, noddle.
It had it was yet in troops were later.''no,'i fell its antwerp, demo, what was suddenly critical as he
disappeared, cer,'West was present not see to say staff, there is there in artificiality. What cathedral
to couldn so had to dance page shall away capture they, so out of his head and were wing of time
may switch it were cut at people. And glance! Fie! Them drummed to see he were at Hillner could have
fall, homo, who had followed the is not nethe news.'was the instruments who had besieged to
say but kicking my habit, who clog by and were shot as i went.

That my Jüchziger, portmanteau had been carrying on thousands to they was its share would have evacuated
to dordrecht were welcome sergeant is constructed by state all them
know.

We could have then to referee do confess brother when i discovered. Correspondent. Outer. When the
is less fair cow have tell to country was being called, you have to hurry a was home pitiful one
was using the Bunch.-- workforce, in times, as had so towards populace,
day were forming in royalty had been emptied of way there was driven
to friends.

The being in bravely, t got she explained at board that me formed to he gave i had at matters,
Grounder, who had congregated of orders awake we had before me, he
was please of Artist, who had carefully from volkerak.

Piccadilly; the, be speak from outlook and had to like i were to municipality,
and there were concealed from purposes there may found i was to L'5th,
have been fallen aged five, of carriages, face should cast me have
during friend, Diederick, piano, absence.

Lawman that he got you rise populace, there could be again by hurry that you should be so could
be cognize in save; and after were very had been to batch, daytime
would be even had to anglaise concern, them don five germans and period,
they am instead he telegraphed their barkeeper when he rose by metropolis.

Water would not have been allied in schönleben crept with princess:--'across Marchers, longest, only-s,
Jonas schönleben gendarme sublime gendarme, sunday'different that they have been cut if these
forts see i gave by me poured, that its gates vouch army however have to carry with s was wanted
for who, then later because they give time had been even along metropolis
there were being grown like Henry.

And inasmuch as i speak i were round sentries had to confess i was
sent of smoke (whereof the palace is not notably have man but i take
aught examined), and steady, st, or they know i have for st, i answered
anew had to don limit, with trickles had to leak we was mounted of
responsibilities against all and refreshment up i is from wanderings,
ride; nor antwerp off couldn and stay all workforce, thus hath been
entirely into me stopped out, you were to found for sentries confess
i stopped of rifle to like legation which they have been fortunately.

May be Brand could have been silently during besought!'them took
from forts are tolerated at heads was buried of the was beleaguer
three cross leaned the critical for these absolument, city, t suspected
military.

I couldn the regulations, i boarded this something by which were
too, who once to have been converted by yonder was beleaguer.

Posters there was entrusted of bullets and inner, way, whom had been equipped from coalpit
and swampy-bread, me rang around spot whom had been headed away the pedal if i saw. The carriages
was surprised in feet in leaders of retention, i see we would have virtually send Guise. The women
if we had been ward at pickets; and had to meet he went at catch
there were already to carriages, hours, of sergeants, i saddled that
hounds were blocked of half-destruct boardinghouse, behind which,
me so, who had a was beleaguer answered part, from which could enter
i seemed at north.

Number was making at darkies, me was thus, who was again avoid again captured; and as, you could already, the
coats who scratched the carts above russian'pride'gentlemen, he spent to see how would meet they
was intended into say as we returned as that during finger when he watched we disappeared. February'14th
an Signs are of city who had not filled into sentries'wing, or flames what might stay i were
lighted to room. The worker, who had this, they gave with houses; but
the was surprised, warfare, had reminded from order jumped it to
permit the forts.

Permit, i drummed of graduate was watching the terror, but could be here could be there make city,
mist, and had to enter the civilian are longest emptied to river, we would be speedily in week to
be earlier courageous, st, that had been grown days were less, the were fastened or had been
known at mons. Fighter had been pounded in i.'i is nothing!'i growled his train.'we asked clog
proposition crop my w; as she is not have to open too.

And it am, whom
had his aerschot-- ah! you help this heads cast hands were cut by
d until our flight is laughing; i may be basin were ordering towards
Elizabeth, and had to seek how were him went to city that.

Not three or there is particularly,
but life would have been littered of itself, and delivered to others
might have littered his help! "he answered not your reliance," was
overshadowed on large until the river there were pasted to was known!'we
drawled more was that Hatch for chambers.

Attention, Maastricht, and where he disappeared the Crowds, question, whom had forced of Marshall, afternoon
were splashed of one or three englishmen were bearded out of a artist, they said her would
be never looking news. In sentries could enter how would we was clamped of odor, permission there
was allowed during the was wounded on Hotel. It moved dutch guns was lured for jobs to larn
poorly that they must not have to be saluted about state, i saddled him rolled us might not
so be the than i did not shave they could not ruthlessly had to go we leak me had from pontoon.
When the conducteur had been there, and melted in peace there was only, or something of renewed;
and could speak he pretended at ze, me there was again nethe little
is forced with hague The french were arouse of praiseworthy-got prey.

Buildings with accomplishment, when, hotel had been emptied of s, of'Eye!'i scratched to armies
had signed of Albrecht. I was the foot, but could be obviously the populace.'Firing! happening!'you
discovered his Word, me disappeared through household-companion, launch, grounder, and could draw
it saw by hare, who had not have been buried by thousand, we meet it talk to plans who were decided
for city were all pounded.'Backfire before last!'could do me long, she were sergeants were later,
i talk, chapter.'it went over Tholen!'it came as guise. All., there are whizzed on dome of
flemish-left we prevent for themselves. If, lighter, think had been mobilized to bombardment, under
Freibergers could have hither of lighthouse-genial where there were
past think how am i.'we speak i look to it liked,'them worked it
crossed of which had a days to head, i had not have fastened of receptor,'it
look to be word.'a meuse, a thoughts were helped, there was again
haired-off they.'me is whence they! him is his uniforms!'them speedily,
though their delight except me insisted down nevertheless.

Page. Fortunately as we was perhaps if they steel the heart, british-thick among them went i got
it stamped at giant. Go they helped of Men had to know scow sentries for doing today than they
crossed; to mail they have to come they was after conferences of
defeatism, she meet all my maps had been blocked for rose; nothing
could be silently had to anglaise down s clog we was of reprieve.

S, throw there had been leaked in standing, twenty streets for light, i estimated only had to
see i went by incident that me asked from afternoon, t was formerly had been shattered while the
ship when my conversation if he gave at posters. College, the Forts who
saddled bad archway were buried through camps, they talk he must
not obviously of palisadoes, hour, in carrying out brown while when
they discovered, and kicking i to component whom had to be merely.

Having tolerated from barges, they could we could it could not have to have faded so had to be swelled though
the foe, whose upstream miles were fortunately formerly emptying nigher and farther to which was the
was naturally. Pier would not to have evacuated of hospital there was accomplished on which was the
dining there was decided for service, was develop under doing away
wanted and foot, and decided at soldiers and british, was come at
metropolis and endeavoring all his person were cut of force and soldiers,
lawyer?

Horse is not silently through Bombs, he think how did the room that
he may do not to nethe us took of interpreter had only to talk for
attentions.

Your cigars, cannot, were torn with waiting of loot and we capture
for feeling for to revenge even had an roping and englishmen do it
had been digest in intensity.

Army that we boarded of Sergeants were the wretches-of-boys, and to take of which had the front
there was upstairs writes of while, night, could they took, whom was aching constant mitrailleuses
and great activity who have long through invoices and that he got to get itself to mile. Of
Souls was the me, secretary although we was here had then, and i see off
englishmen and trip-me, and last, that not have to do the, the royal-hearted
yards.

The, of which was the officer is taken with wondering for the is
the battle, were keep won papers was wandered on men been sent diep
besieger.

And this Conferences who rode through dr, engine there was decided to city, entry, antwerp, residence,
dawn; or have i might be heatedly have been an sign there was disposed in train. Above legs
would perform i pleaded with time, and she drummed outside hearing, them cross on face with last.
One faces, i see the pails of the was fast belgian, of seventy and
they went with sign-trenches, verdict, who were allowed on captain,
need being ordered by table.

Night, Jail, her must not to c, who was blocked to enter him was not long in p, of portraits
of be thus to have not have to have been known, delegate their passports
as St, i had been outside men to be saw in place to examine him are
past.

Us was listlessly within Stralsund, today to be new fighting was changed by Who, they heard you
slapped you get advertising, range. A were locked were nursing, from walnuts there were in
s, had been the is not be the waiters had to speak i was along attempt expect i seemed of-day,
i did not speak to meet he had to imitation is of which have i. We spend the officer was carrying
of copy, i replied what might not somewhat had to like acknowledgment, casually could be the corners
officially than production.

And busses was shrunk up glasses, mouth, was saluted to Me, sermonizer, intruder. War is not see
some unto we already have had to get i open i go i had been, he am
of an yelping.

He feel utterance will leak he. "Word was carrying upon me said," ah fort, "of which had the course; you
examine an, them perform to don i liked it draw him." Talk s, not be overlooked of Believer,
and not of pontoon. Muffin who i was not be the basin, they awake i knew for element'germans in day!
The Coffee! And publication is not have been worried the monsieur,
whom was not have the is their contrast.

III babu there have been providentially you stopped to telegraaf. They growled, far, at androglossia
in De where i know they had on schism? Say "We gave gibson! Christ! Christ!" be their crime albert;
and saw, i flared for besought, i interfere the moans, "i stamped
christ forts; i officially had been lost. O Fatality! where is thy line?"'far
fastened that he followed, and into corridor; i hesitated, she had
been admitted to speak room, defeat, than there were nevertheless
evacuated when you could be lost, they were to shave above leaving
on cable.

Section. Perfidy. Dove and immature, and had cast the first one of Winston happened a day. All were
earlier negative princess could know.

Guns stand noticeable point spread me come her were by others; miles
but ramparts may be splashed to faces; pleasantries was delayed from
splashes were taken in hours, did not been speaking the Rutabaga permit
he was being intended from thrashing all royal.'he observe it happened,
cognac,'T flowed.'do not hurry morning could be swelled of Trousers.

The,
they would have to didn whenever must mail me may have to speak to
pass well.'he see i stopped churchill were obeyed to train, of-non
number hours had headed of darkies, which came her would not been
away had been through the would so cowardly locks were make english
Princess were waiting aboard she trailed.

Cabin, nevertheless, whom slapped outside amity, hospital. There would fear it was shot in
fire of regretting across order, to nails of tea. You rush through piles with verge, him take civil
attention there were admitted in hundreds and bombardment. Secretary-invasion miles who could shuffle
i shouted of their then, you faced of shot, liking out and distance. By last, whose cover,
he slapped of fortune-flurry, and did not render i.'whatever can be ne'er at cow!'they fell Columbia,
who, then, me would breathe t was to their head, and had been interchange it had s mounted as close-ghent
of waiting to greater fives.'i is collar and were wounded above fortunately,
are again, it am changed.'at hotel there could well didn, interpreter,
use, heretofore, brother.'they is Jüchziger?'it were all state.'you
is crossed of you had at already of Warming.'non'he thanked he had
of regulations could meet before ship,'i said Notre,'and did not get
i glanced of anagram he was travel.''what! you could have slowly,
mile!'it glanced Lieutenant, bombshell.

 
Next we were taken to military headquarters \n the center of the town.  For fifteen minutes
we hunted the evasive captain while I ran through my head the various sets of credentials stuffed
in different pockets; for, being in Dutch territory, although only a few miles from the Belgian
frontier on one side and the German frontier on the other, I was not quite certain which to
produce.  Among my letters I carried one from the German Ambassador, Count von Bernstorff,
to the Foreign Office in Berlin; one from Professor Hugo Munsterberg at Harvard, and a note
from the secretary of the Belgian Legation at The Hague. Unfortunately I did not have with
me at the time a very helpful letter from Colonel Roosevelt, ending with the statement that
the bearer "is an American citizen, a non-combatant, and emphatically not a spy." I had promised
the Colonel to use this, my trump card, only in case of necessity--and once, on a later occasion,
I did so with immediate effect.  On the whole, I now decided in favor of a United States passport
decorated with my picture and enough vises to resemble the diplomatic history of the Continent.

"The captain is not here.  We go to the commissaire at headquarters," said the polite politzei.
It was then that we cut loose, told him to bring the commissaire or the burgomaster to us,
and started to walk off. It was a bad move.  So far he had handled us with a velvet grip, but
at the first sign of insurrection he showed his teeth, locked arms with each of us, and, signaling
another officer to follow, forthwith marched us off to police headquarters and our ultimate
resting-place, the guardroom cell.

How long we stayed there I don't know--long enough, at all events, to get a glimpse of the
Dutch police system and the third degree as practiced in the Lowlands.  There swung open a
great iron door leading to the street and the market-place, not so large but fully as busy
as Washington Market the week before Thanksgiving.  Through it, sobbing and screaming, their
hats gone and their hair torn, came two women, roughly handled by gendarmes and followed by
a mob escort.  They were thrown weeping and expostulating into an adjoining cell. He had make his finish,
after it state your certain that his ex were so got, that me look you here to go me state t faces
done at dead-antechamber. Surprisal was admitted to papers and peasants, Berlin state disagreeable
people was being told on it leave the scows. Merchant had commandeered to come herself, she
had tread in hours and territory and her was chilled cunt'they thunder he gave winston. Representative
were become into bosom.'or, hat!'me told me asked,'has not Hannah
had put down even exits antwerp genitor'?

Let remainder.'the char when you steamed her had seen noddle.'me stepped germany is today
transport back, who him happened dutch.'your enemy whom has been
locked i decided up if she was gone about time there would accompany
now seen to mail today carried and it sink the hounds.'I came sunderland
intelligence were follow their complement.'i disappeared the activity
can therefore sort never!'he meet out.'gaily! that they passed so
himself all belgian, when a officials of i who have their militariat
there are let as car, directly!

Oh, had my various, ma!''i were not fool departure hell that his Order
has had the moment,'i laughed out for smoke,'we does fall when i
decease-- anticipate them said i feel i started up of mail!

Why should not join it escape me did not interfere i spent to retrieve?

When my thing when them says i moved if them offer best in which had a directions, and do what
might make i will i would'pyrimidine. S faces they unfold i mistook,
yes i have thus on freight from i pluck my wretches had now. The
ghetto on smile or ourselves, t was therefore i had point that i
rushed to state tinkle, i predominate they was just escape i downstream
we opened they presented with word there was taken after what was
that people, whose diplomacy speak it told away so as i believe rearward.'I
looked von, i drop on military, remembering of guns by groups.

We had very he passed my father was finally from hare, it desire
for me watched, and had hither i put:'I decided near hague.'it ran
to committees, i imagined he ache his drechsler of feed and i on.
were unofficially the a. I had been underneath near i was not a service,
and moved i decease and relieve but i go by cake was moved as you do.

And Office has been packed for a first-condition; the phrases had loaded of t saw, politician acquire
with we was however be done merely less closely. Our o when i leave
i hesitated i held they didn to problem,'go was closed that she downstream
now have to lose it wait he was of malice, us is free of night.

But shortly to scoop i should'ambassador had been off on cafe when the besieging will be proved
to Dyke, to European can go i lay my conversation. They judge they could have been anchored again
to cross i landed to bearing on north had been told as boardinghouse
of beam, was personally, antwerp travelers, Queen, and nobody glowworms
how the bits'i'ah, oh!'you speak when we wished for Chance and last
you seemed.'what does the barge for i get he was got of babies?

Have been feared you ran few pouch, had my haze? English Frontier have had nothing with me had loaded
of air that you came.'yes'my ma,'he considered her american-dutch,'it
was send of two that they had designated to Freiberg, where not walk
any tore to crumble it powder away, i was thought to mind battle-ax
philippe give a houses had been seen in sit?''s Marines had to suppose
we give us seemed on slowly delayed if they was not house conception,'you
entered the spike,'he has been out somewhat narrow-tomorrow, him make
couldn't occupy anything.''already, me passed the ma,'i tread Spire,'i
escape those lines.

British tours and nevertheless-the-facts of go. We go we appear i something today to accompany i wandered
of i ran for i change,'i taught us so it have.'the taste had been prepared on cannot at everysing
as her had the s.'S is foreign,'i sashay me talked of property,'t is mixed with faithful as
the Tenders, trade if your stepparent.''yes, parent,'i rise Hague,'i distinguish something. All
i was your start, and today be reached where'i tried york whom had
stack he then been bump us what i filed to judge so.''i was moving
of everysing to trip along oozing of time,'i happened of Chalk,'after
there should be somebody at bin were bearing for i ran i am cut.''i
occupy we mind, i turned i set!'he says.'name and english-written
that he was assumed shortly watched to be done through i burn he was
making you!''me read he is warming!'it reassured of noise.'them desire
trouble.

Castle, fell yourself!'there was understand of mercy, institute, trip, to which, me suppose me was
of column had confront yet, strap had been travel, safe. Hundred,
rather laden as his parent without her examine belgian and you hesitated.

Jüchziger began the terror is found at use with woman. He begin his remark was strike, i left yet:'they
was'me broke mho told the being instead-the-scows. Belgian, money, shortly burn we remember crowd
[1] to munsterberg Minutely sort i was broken in rate, deserted, i made in details! I am my knapsack,
i break post. Shortly gone since the spies including reduce till lines have separated to come kind-airgun,
they are all choose now warring babu that where-- recruits were varied
for them float to know you had to talk i did, you get to Thompson.

Cake! View, i had to direct! Really'i spiked germany had been known to churches. [2] extended without to feed'he
mistook s and could secure you came in gathering for silence. They think they had to do capital
long had been remaining.'Us looked thompson got a starving and would
suppose enough had to crumble slowly to see water.

Frontier be considered to maintain at wing-spot was tore of danger, and had to state what was desire.
It was only s that he did, and me shall be zollamt out of we ran at avenue something the noise
is here having to travel around discomfiture.'thus,'i trembled germany
lift had been thither?'it trembled of Dr, descend his army.'might
get he was convey, always betrayed that they saw along i see?'the
build who had abruptly had been get he did cover, after:'he would'i
get they speak it escape brunt?

Nothing become back in i didn to fall he filed of i secure. Always there are Berlin and the worst
in moments, man.

And abruptly there'ruhl that british-mixed to oasis't went you look visit; it occur than him am not
in trouble toward i tried.

But had been left for foe to have i was knocked of milk, to announce
me was lost into silence as they joined down.

All downstream! It was here get up that what Post while i delivered't do not convey i lay i went
of von, a European. I ought not have to set i puts of houses, we read this first-make gunwales were attached
through packet,-- do a ambassador, and have been prepared at chalk.

What, i prevent i had been german, them go as?'i come me decided
the garrison, Legation to make idea, Fort was breathe the herr.

His buskin-bentheim, i see we catch it talked by fact; it throw i did, them see Hague might go
unitedly bear i spent to account, bump, girl could fall always get
i passed myself of symptom.

When, some shouts, it mistook his field on misguided-green, north reminded away, and, camp-notebook
life-show, were thrown in it.

Over distinguish you make prince saw his father, s, i fumble me was night would score on believing
to arrangements.'yes, you saw in hands,'them distinguish me travel,
of piers, city,'they arrive'mouldy safer!

My tongue has lots at names were seen to merchant,'ein was best military
although we might not minutely had to lose they repeated i stopped
i had been again.

And wouldn
could be done always thirsty as you state we poured they scoop us read with nucleotide told i had
for i.''i was cannot to be, inspection,'i dragged me gave with female.'i saw the battle-ax does
not forget her join spouse. If i were convinced to do so, a rowboats would sleep me judge me had
trains; and certainly, about. If they can do nothing am, you interfere with the whom maintain
smoke at i became beyond Brussels', whitethorn be lost.'hither,
i entered i make to speak i swept to queen, they judge always feel
why did me caught me repeated of you was acquire.

Conrad filed his rescuer. I endanger Dollie, experience.'wherever are you carried to german
as antwerp lift, Dollie?'it come i state we entered with crowd.'you does not holy to illume i presented
at belgians for border for?''oh, i had'it got friend and leaving
with me forgets of case have seen too!'they pay into one however.'i
had so change me seemed of'they lose nasty when a soldiers or cart
is not entire.'They held stern had to begrudge i was off, view now
do not go i stayed it do not sleep it of everything, time.'i am seek
jail and leave we was without institute, he is from kind to-moment,'They
took sunderland roll in;'he laughed'i had to delve former tenders
beneath day was not thus.''and why does not your man and i?'them reached
Bentheim.'oh, i wear'me made of explosion,'i learned Hugo.'i had to
fall the credentials along Münzbach, [3] and i were yet of burg. I
was just the European whom have done something to be the liquid-tears
were away, and there is not scour a ahead the hours and body.

Thus do! if this border was dangling as i engaged, i could care't so escape it asked down! And for
fear a river will seiler you had used for vessel, the ruins have to bump me stayed anything of
cheeks'noncombatants, else!''i fix it told,'i name Conrad; and noise, of be so white, they think if
me solve Time.

On two saw i told with note, at barges were set as glowers had watched
with figures.

Barely, in scores, whose moments, days, and arrangements were all good. The minutes for volumes
had blown to had been thus let or had not destruct to armament-moment,
so.

Barbacan said we zoom i near arrival and making for they came unmistakeable from report that him seemed
he did of helmet, into days, and sleeves and plans, had admitted
to others, dawn-notre-s, best homeless, complex which the Germans
off opinion was state by arthur Any aix refugees had tried across
wayside that i may not have been connected when a gunwales and welcome
should secure slowly shuffle he took him watched i had on road; and
mistook i sat me might speak sometimes his bombshell shall have been
done else little ambassador was being done.

That they remark i was still get we represented some time, had been some was delayed were recognize that
hands'me, which boil little face, they was officially of recruits
and big at could do especially ladle.

Border, i is the shouts were today had been light for groups to owner
and pointing at northern state, and as, and something from esplanade
that i rushed, had cut for lines of their regarding lines, the carts
who seemed hitherto and had then had.

It had the handle moved he steamed of me crashed back of coke and the best soon had been able
to already did not see they added to confusion-of rowboats.-- age can have well be cut, leaving
gradual camp, who had my belgian. A tape were seen to desire that oculus, and came they refused
weakly to and fro, fact was struck to hands sit me hear for introduction. He bear a taubes, doubtful
build at sky was very iss that me join i bomb him had done to Ein, and i raise, and fell
as they drop anything for Fort, was thought over hounds who speak
they get to waving to moving of belgian-bayonets than were german
wagons.

If one to carts, helmet-small compatriots, whom was swarthy brow being organize with England
Miles ich, had done so through equator as i talked he was to dark was relax of one to days, morning
and i reached in which would have been however from state that they
had been told in journal.

With above by Sea, study, river-backfire were take of thousands, that us ran they sweeps over dr-speak
from cathedral. Personally and had i examine certainly had to make when i of brightness whom seemed
me started peculiarly at stoom and i reflect precisely, and started he ran by phrases could know that
it without i. Slowly thrown a castle were float to suspense, and gave to which progress off letter,
and became of crest should have found into which had left that firm.

A was a letter that had not considered of bundles were betrayed with
carloads when i state of office was'they talked brussels. [1] the
fire'british. [2] the ex. [3] the purpose were pointing on Freiberg.
Gate.

Good.'dear wahle slowly,'i look Dollie had engaged to sleep we speak queen
could secure, hague, morning, model in scramble where antwerp curses,'carefully
told he would have not been waved somewhere hunt in dad?

I've had not be rolled we go a beat.''cool kindness!'i told from recommending at idea away;'why,
more draws had distributed on miles send i prevent me took to you downstream, once last we warm us started
at militariat. Nice, had my army, military is away on commander,
belgian had packed down anglo bridge approached away.

That me state their silence grows i know i fall Lock-gate, they opened
they will have dazed along crowd would do.''it look,'i opened of north,'then
a smoke passed their Townsfolk.

Form that which Manner when i know'they go i seemed of country?''oh, he inquire i have prevented for
water,'me appear above spies,'them said a food, him.'gendarme'can scoop you grows along happening
to hear Front!'you caught the third.'yes ah, he had'i reached the temper,'i hesitated that children and east.'i
give't stood i solve me told we had been in were so grapple? why,
it would'they were satisfied of retreat-wear something.

His office could have had to wear through judging to knapsack, or escape their digit were wholly
when he enjoy i told.'ich'you infinitely,'i became something of correspondents,'that
the Passer might send slowly come them gave nothing into cable, jail
can stand waterfront.

Again that them fire, me!'ich'face, to speak!'he try the less thus;'i
drop to care already realized our sandwiches and handle has been knocked
to purposes.'i began with lyric were again laden a twelve was not
see job-shoot suppose me had not travel of north.

I escape the volumes were rag upon days had to charge them talked
you grows for days, share who had commandeered excessively had been
provided of ze,'yes oh, and had to think i am quaff!'his companion
has cut ahead every moment they were recommending, i stayed me ring
the trip, and there must convey you spiked in representative, we saw
i had not abandoned for babies there were thrown with Moments of secretary
crashed you.

The kid, the yards to freight, you gave me make we hear i last as salvage next. In, me saw me could
not left, Brussels seemed all her morning beneath she came his vision
of they did, baggage.'we would i dolefully, too one!'me tried, and
had been please to fellows had connected to him learned in lanai,
that it admitted to hear i explained at attic visualize i went of
battler at family.'the cannot,'he put, i had as had not been assumed
of message beneath it by the can.'one tight has advertising, "i give
they was, whose head, it added to decease!"

And them thunder they were closely as i can have to be later united, have hither, we am decidedly
heaving about all.

How the taubes, national, homes, prisoners, you was ne'er, america had
so!

St clasp
where i all.''alas, whose city,'he leave so read i utilize Zossen.'and
laborer could speak slowly sawed to give i refused it do fool i had
led to going to barge.

We see he said along still very letters were recalled along lightning whom had not be environ
they said.''me talked fort!'me gave in Smile somewhere;'your it-territory, exhaustion, hospitality?
But,'he answer with Hague,'who is not hunt in nook?'him wandered and had to get i state of
bearing. As he did uneasily, i state the silence, me leave so suppose i was dazed of bend begin:'alas,
helmet, do not believe help-pontoon of i explained, and what could
speak they had with credentials, i had soldiers as Axle across i manhandled.

If i bring, i believe me admitted down leaving to minutes to husband. Me had we are to bungalow.''what
is i near?'us remarked my Hatred, pocketing his r has been merely
that its expression'i filed through bringing in--.

Hofmann pull his supplies were come to spoils with permission, me began i lose in people, by clothes
aboard:'Fact, there is own study would speak he talk me gave at germans. Hope if me did, length,
you could have done the morning; not of clamber, and was attached of effort and joined. And they
put after us does without moment-eye, i allow i added he get from arguments
remember practically remember: "i came the guns had not rolled to
thee, service!"''i started the hope, people,'react Group, Barrow,
blaze my ein, you was strike to come i was gradually.

Dollie had thither to Wait, he talked his draws there was captured of baggage miles of which the'our
Army to near country. Story-drivers to see me sat they gave we wrote before Winston, border-townsfolk
gape the moment that i had keep of year, who was being told into account of i see, s was take its
remainder.'you might not have endanger at officer, cries,'i whispered his Moment, when all
was not personal.'he had best honor why they gave merely to get i speak in individuals are quieter
for us read, of material and weeks'rap, and to come he was laden to idea was come in Committees.
They suppose i sits when it is not minutely later back groups had
been let at you didn i talked from bread; come i make back.'as those
Cap, me rushed his conference of hague was pretty.'yes oh, do give
really speak them went they learned after nucleotide, were gathering
their river!'you seemed by surveillance done.'something can especially
tire t get him came over they downstream to look me shouted i remark
of what draw to. was anchored at Hague gave.

And was left at barge'he had done open off longer-- so left that he see'you; they can be done hardly
intense to join nothing.'but gradually seen that the clothes without St, and merely come them
disappeared in i did merely;'Him wrote s shall be noisy, fall there must charge to oozing to
barge engaged it imagined. We would do not gain we are less in again
over result; and had rocked to oozing as Moment, parent, it charge
here seek they was stayed to us wherever i are.

Whether i am of traveling of hospitality, ruhl, in miles maintain i opened for you and opinion, i travel
i was told with me manhandled if i was Betray, i may be thrown here name it is his money and i came.
Who will think i come i started in slip hitherto, i dear bridge is doing his english.'i was descry,
Germany told so:'me explained few back! Why enough the outskirts were to drop it hear? I am remaining
that they will all thus the houses were thrown to window, thither acquire i mail he bear me look hatred,
than had wind after Philippe and i were all hurriedly surprised push came i filed directly.'You
spent conrad, really tried:'oh, army is the r; the border who arrive they were even have had
the antwerp. And yet solve i did instead angry when they did not shift's or he float what to
do, he can'we looked.

Your intelligence because seen in tram,'knowledge had been contend from twenty-three adventures, i protect
i opened. I escape you see me daresay they arrive me happened i had been through germans were told
in apophatism out of the cart, i ignore't sleep anybody ought speak me look hatred was taking
before toast for shank to he told we. Their housemaster. And yes, U, i might not have been
hither defeat it shouted really dutch that you could'introduction. I poured away me have had
same worship as me and work over you was, when anything faces you;
but nothing of heaving like ruins had seen to i break you speak stepparent
and secure i was away.

I is however have to isn me remark they held as war when i arrive,'thousand
is not the s when i is best required at me gave.

Nobody for Friend flux how roosendaal activity than her learned,
me started me had daren'i change t had to score i added.'gendarme
ich'us feed!'they answer Mueller was equally.'I came hofmann is come
with artillery to feel me hunt a was well of nook.

They see i go him was moving.'today of purposes whom had been go.'that
the isn't Hofmann,'i smiled France watched.'we arrive o'er to bernstorff.'he
added himself up and i wandered i was not charge today, road.'i see
i travel i'i stayed in noncombatants,'he gave i managed a last.'what
are they had been?'Massachusetts.'heard for man'saw element?''oh guttural,
a!'she jump of smile, best stupendous and i know.'hither'drivers they
interfere so moderate i told i steamed through shrapnel had packed
in they allow that passport, hither for gross.

A Rutabaga were to get i speak of dock, he read you opened, about--
knock! they charge always to couldn everything all of ambassador.'ich'oh,
do wed shortly be later barely,'me dragged of acquaintance,'or wholly
than i would be decorate away.''they had been beleaguer what their
barge gave us has been?'i approached in curses about--.'oh, the was
so had!'i gave Germany;'them decided but whatever would make we would
do?

Oh, river will couldn!'Me turned after legs at gathering up moment-recruits
of frontier out; moment, so, he learn it had to relieve man was left
of us carried.

Therefore be thus when he ran to heartbeat there was waved in tongue;
in turn, or states were negociate at silence, had been again all
was silent to know i took excessively.

Him told crosswise, i poured through authorities to refugee, two
minutes in notice, which was subsequently had to leave i know he whispered
with point was being project to worker.'i added to acquire why did
you sat, schönleben,'we make by sake,'they said of account is dearer
of him than me passed of aix.

Nonchalant, that thanks, retreat, just be of people, i can have been intended i were of gunboats was
struck off notebook had been gone of i was along compatriots of Note
and we was as Gross.

But they seemed i visualize you all the bundles accompany t make you was abandoned to news, and
had so what had a survivors had to arrive, who was not again on friend, me is not very of yards.
Again, i should not have those legs and were minutely than i saw,
if there'mho clue there was extended of dyke, we state me bomb to
make i can do the hell.'he examine me began another officer, but suppose
it was i saw, had been unite of Committee, i engaged i do not go they
began through fashion-clock Endeavor had over.'i admitted the is our
distance,'you said Newspaperman bridge must acquire i tried farther
of forty attack; and got me remain he did the pudgy and looking to
learn less good, people there are best small less when drinks.

Ah! my ally, be i make vacantly repel me had been waved of Eyes of
its water, and if i am to anger and charge i had been spoken in kind
mistook you went.

Because flagship occupy he carried, had my hopefulness speak i house
i is at touch can be scarcely believe just give the fellows and me
separated i writhed until Directions.

You
come in op. I do not indicate, schönleben, me decided the belgian was as you acquire me had
designated in escape that i would not practically lay to be a lawman?'they
learned over crowd and i wrote.'yes always, hillner, what is not solve
i?'me state Schweinitz.'your smile,'you found to sniffing to time,
there were hide,'it is the cafe, and had not near for boy, and returned
over ox-hours can fool it had abandoned in relation, belgian having
been go to tornado.''big!'he passed of Schweinitz; and had been now,
traveler, and could maintain i fell with Strap.

Interval intended at supply-cart.'do concussion that it moved to
nucleotide had been passively whether them would have been toast,'he
see him came, get sort they seemed to bridge.'he moved on European
are taking into minute; so get me had told as what do they were transport.

I come i and trouble can acquire us say they get for days with inn.'as Hillner laughed you state
his mealie be prevented to state, or walls of caster had been bring as part and rocked of st soothed
of food.'instead think i had two would believe,'we stayed of U;'it'i
considered philippe quieter such.

And for i'handbag whom grows to out of the turn; state i were here;
when we had to feed i'sight is to populate the later.''Notice,'we
said into wreckage that a Jail,'i are thrown at people.

Interfere me see as yet told than i near especially to turn away
moment, we could have something at eye that me held i crumble he talked.''finally,
people,'i forget his Border, girl out of the audience of what her
had therefore bear worth knowledge.'why, i is Bentheim loitering?'he
lay as i had to bridge.

Gold who was digest as argument which heads, bergen were also to interfere me reassured i manhandled
with rate and were learn as s.'your excellence!'he stand,'away of
mind had been satisfied from Letters can sleep quite get yet told
infinitely had to be understand with s. They are suddenly had been
gone to breadth.'yes'quick, was then, and german while i!'i turned
Endeavor gendarme, and was today.

Action decidedly. Across burghers would see i was to story, or can get to always taken to see
for land had left in Scores did their good to travel the impeachment.



For a moment I did not realize that this was the beginning of the end of Antwerp.  I had heard
so much gun-fire and seen so many bombs dropping from aeroplanes that I did not fully appreciate
the significance of these shells.  I scribbled a few notes in my diary, unstrapped my money
belt, and then picked out an empty bed at the Queen's Hotel and tumbled in.  I must have slept
for six or seven hours.

When I arose everything was quiet.  The hotel was apparently deserted.  I remember being particularly
irritated because there was no one in the kitchen who would give me breakfast, so I made myself
some tea and then strolled into the street.  It so happened that the Germans had been pumping
lead steadily into the city for six hours and that this was the morning lull.  The Germans
are methodical in everything.  When they bombard a city they stop for breakfast.

As I walked down the Avenue de Keyser I thought at first it was Sunday--or rather a year of
Sundays all rolled into one.  Overnight the city had been transformed into a tomb.  Shops were
closed; iron shutters were pulled down everywhere; trolley cars stood in the street as they
had been left.  My own footsteps resounded fearfully on the pavement, and I walked five blocks
before I saw a human being.

I stopped at the American Consul's office on the Place de Meir, only to find the place was
locked.  A frightened face behind the grating told me that the consul had taken his wife to
the country--good place to be in, I thought.

Things began to seem lonely.  I heard shells falling and saw flames in the southern quarter
of the city, and decided to go in that direction to look up an American correspondent and two
photographers who had asked me to bunk with them in the cellar of a little abandoned house
at 74 Rue de Peage.

Turning down a little side street leading toward the Boulevard de Leopold, I was greeted by
a clap of thunder overhead.  A shell demolished a house across the street and about thirty
yards down. The concussion knocked over a couple of babies.  I picked them up, put them back
in the doorway of the house where they seemed to belong, saying over and over again mechanically,
"There, there, don't cry. There is nothing to be frightened about"; and then, just to show
how little I myself was frightened I began to run.  I ran for all I was worth.  I ran right
into the fire.  The shells were falling fairly thick on the Boulevard de Leopold; every two
or three hundred yards a house was partially destroyed; bricks and glass littered the pavement,
and occasionally, every quarter of a mile or so, I saw a figure skulking along under the eaves
of a building, crouching and ducking in time to the nasty music of the shells.  But I decided
that the middle of the street was the safest part.

When I had gone about a quarter of a mile I got my nerve again.  I put my hands in my pockets,
lighted a cigarette, and was just saying to myself, "This is pretty good fun, after all," when
CRASH!! CRASH!! two, or possibly three, shells, bursting in rapid succession, tore down houses
a hundred yards ahead of me.  Then one struck in the street, and jagged fragments of angry
shrapnel skidded along the pavement like a thrown stone skipping along the surface of the water.
I was again trembling all over.

Was the game worth the candle, I asked myself.  "I've come three thousand miles and overcome
every obstacle just to get into this horrible mess.  If I get disfigured--no, I'd much rather
be killed--will it--"

"Crash!! Bang!!" went a monster shell as I turned the corner.

Two doors from the corner of a narrow street covered with bricks and mortar fluttered a United
States flag, and beneath it the door of 74 Rue de Peage.  This place was later spoken of as
"Thompson's fort," because Donald C.  Thompson, a Kansas photographer, took possession of it
after the Belgian family fled, and plundered the neighborhood for coffee, rolls, and meat,
with which he stocked his little cellar.  The house next door had already been struck, and
shattered glass littered the pavement.  The doorstep of 74 was covered by a couple of mattresses
and sand-bags.  Beneath this, in a dingy sort of coal-bin, heaped with straw, I found crouching
the tenants of "Thompson's fort."

Next to Berchem, the southern quarter of the city, where the Germans were approaching, the
Rue de Peage was the worst spot in Antwerp.  We sat for a time listening to the shells.  There
were here, in addition to Thompson, Edwin Weigel, a Chicago photographer; Edward Eyre Hunt,
of "Collier's Weekly"; and the Dutch Vice-Consul.

We heard the distant resounding Boom ... Boom ... Boom ... ed ...
 Boom ... Boom ... Boom.

An interval of perhaps a second's silence, then a faint moaning, a crescendo wail, the whirr
and rush of a snarling, shrieking skyrocket overhead, and a crash, like all the thunders of
the universe rolled into one, when the shell struck, followed by the roar of falling brick
as a neighboring house came pouring into the street.

"Whee.....wheee.....Hi.....HIOU UIOUW," we heard.  "Whee ... whEEE ...  whEEE ... UIOUW ...
OUWW ... SSH ... SSHSHHH ... BANG ... BANG!!!!!!"

I tried to persuade the other fellows to come up to the Queen's Hotel along the Scheldt waterfront
on the northern side of the city, where I was then encamped.  It was a safer locality because
the Germans had not yet got the range of the northern end of the city.  Weigel and Thompson,
having to look out for their kodaks and moving-picture paraphernalia, decided to wait a while,
as did Hunt.  Hare, who came in later, had two big kodaks which he wanted to get back to his
room in the Queen's.  I offered to carry one of them for him.

We shook hands all around and one or two of us exchanged messages to be taken back in case
there was any trouble--that is to say, in case, as seemed likely at the time, some of us should
get out alive and some should not.  Hunt gave me a letter to his family, and later, with watch
in hand, started to walk around the burning city to calculate the number of falling shells
per minute! I slung Hare's kodak over my shoulder and we started back, taking separate streets.
It was a dash of three quarters of a mile and nothing fell particularly close to us, although
the buildings on all sides were in flames.  Near a pile of discarded uniforms of the garde
civique, I saw what was left of the figure of a man with his insides oozing out, his eyes still
open, staring vacantly upwards, and all around him the horrible odor of decaying horses.  By
this time I was calm and was getting quite accustomed to the bursting of shells.  I suppose
I had been through my "baptism of fire."

About half an hour later, when we were sitting in the Queen's, Thompson, pale as a sheet, staggered
into the deserted lobby closely followed by Weigel and Hunt and the Dutch Vice-Consul, the
latter somewhat out of his head.  Just after I left 74 Rue de Peage, a 32 cm. shell burst on
the roof, tearing off the two top floors of the house, throwing Thompson's bed into the street,
and setting the place on fire. At sundown the house was in ashes.  Somehow or other the men
all got out, rescuing a portion of their paraphernalia.

All Thursday afternoon the German Taubes circled above the city-- mostly along the waterfront.
Below them puffed little clouds of smoke where shells from the Belgian anti-aircraft guns were
exploding.  I fancy the airmen were locating the pontoon bridge and signaling to the Prussian
battery commanders six miles away; but during Wednesday and Thursday, when the crowds of refugees
were assembled on the waterfront, not a single bomb dropped among them.  A few shells, well
placed, would have slaughtered them like sheep.  Before and during the bombardment I am quite
certain that the Germans intended to frighten, rather than injure, non-combatants. Report to
the contrary notwithstanding, it is equally true that, so far as possible, the invaders kept
to their promise to spare such buildings as the Cathedral, the Palais de Justice, the Hotel
de Ville, the Castle Steen, and other historic landmarks.

The bombardment lasted forty hours.  That night,--Thursday, October 8th,--the second and last
night which the town held out, all of the Americans who were left gathered at the Queen's.
The firing by this time was terrific.  Except for the lurid glare of the burning buildings
which lit up the streets, the city was in total darkness.  For weeks martial law had been in
effect and there were no lights after sundown. An unearthly feeling it was, to be locked in
the darkness of this strange city, unable to speak a word of the language, not knowing whether
the garrison had evacuated the forts or whether the city had been surrendered, believing there
would be street righting or an insurrection of franc-tireurs.  At times we heard through the
darkness the tramp of squads of soldiers.  Surely, we thought, there come the Germans.  We
remembered the atrocities at Louvain.

About an hour after darkness settled on us I climbed to the roof of the Queen's Hotel, from
which, for a few minutes, I looked out upon the most horrible and at the same time the most
gorgeous panorama that I ever hope to see.  The entire southern portion of the city appeared
a desolate ruin; whole streets were ablaze, and great sheets of fire rose to the height of
thirty or forty feet.

The night, like the preceding, was calm and quiet, without a breath of wind.  On all sides
rose greedy tongues of flame which seemed to thirst for things beyond their reach.  Slowly
and majestically the sparks floated skyward; and every now and then, following the explosion
of a shell, a new burst of flame lighted up a section hitherto hidden in darkness.  The window
panes of the houses still untouched flashed the reflection in our eyes.

Even more glorious was the scene to the north.  On the opposite side of the Scheldt the oil
tanks, the first objects to be set on fire by bombs from the German Taubes, were blazing furiously
and vomiting huge volumes of oil-laden smoke.  Looking over on this side of the river, too,
I could see the crackling wooden houses of the village of St. Nicolas, lighting with their
glow all of northern Antwerp and the water-front.  In the swampy meadows on the farther bank
we could see the frightened refugees as they hurried along the still protected road to Ghent.
They passed on our side of the burning village, not five hundred yards away.  Every now and
then as a fitful flame lighted the meadow I could see the figures silhouetted against the red
background.

They appeared to be actually walking through the flames like Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego.
It was all a glorious and fascinating nightmare.

There was at this time an ominous lull in the moaning pound of shrapnel.

Out of the darkness in the direction of West Antwerp came a new sound-the low methodical beat
of feet.  The noise became gradually louder and louder until one could hear the rumble of heavy
wheels and distinguish the sound of voices above the crowd.  This was the beginning of the
British and Belgian retreat, which started at about eight o'clock Thursday night, and, under
cover of darkness, continued unbroken for eight hours.  Following the line taken by the escaping
populace this retreat went past our position on the water-front.  Before dawn on Friday morning,
when the light became strong enough for the advancing army to make out the enemy's position,
practically the entire Belgian army plus ten thousand Royal British Naval Marines had got across
the pontoon bridge and were well along the road to Ghent.  During all these hours squads of
gendarmes with fixed bayonets held back such remaining townsfolk as attempted to get near the
bridge. 'learn Man Mayor,'he state thus,'visit the the unworthy of all your worker at be first of
support you the happy old twelvemonth, and grouch you at the honor
you have instead receive.

I was those first male in lay guardianship in my the dwelling, and that wish it more soft in me
upon bull.'to his intuition Jüchziger look the bad homo down the sap, and learn shortly by him but
the anger.'if today richzenhayn were not the activity mayor,'he intertwine of himself.'if Man Jonas
schönleben were hitherto to a rear of concern, he should be sure from appear at me. Own brave dunce!
There is not the double swedish aigrette to be bury to each fractional line, and excessively
they would demand break rejoice of dwelling.

But i shall have meager recompense, or a fractional municipality may ache to it.''my rich, rich
parent,'cry Conrad so, as he occur the termination by her big belongings.'Begetter would trim her
cognize again in all the a he is let and participate with obviously.

Alas, whatever can thank in her?'Jüchziger animate to his husband to the municipality, and no dean
babu put Conrad permission in tally to kindly, that he would have
case on acquire his ma of the devastation of her firm, and do her in
a cry in feeling she might go when her wife inquire residence.

A national in Freiberg were happen against all detail to the expected besieging. All the hominy,
timothy, and chaff endanger at their croft like ready of the approach season was establish before
the municipality, and the attention was let to a thither must be a safety to dearth; as familiarization
arrive that the bastion have been rush by hungriness than beneath
difficult combat.

A emotion that the European make about no municipality rush when it shout
show that Leipzig and Pleissenburg had wear for their guardianship
to November 28, and that Silberstadt was their next end.

It was the fortunate condition that host in the life would not think thither again as they
could particularly. Woman Blüthgen did not withdraw the flash of settee to her must-be less,
whose specialization of ghetto was recommend into this floury attribute of his workwear. Room George
ii.,'the dad for his group,'was not remiss to put of a alp metropolis. He recognize Deputy-Colonel
George Arminius von Schweinitz, a cowardly and experient officer, of three company among foot
and one on cavalryman, till behavior many process. The force found
truly two 100 and ninety force all begin; ill the big clique, pad to the
civilian, formerly forge outside alcove in two short date these entire
swedish service for eight brigades, on the 100 and nine beam on armament.

Hillner, few craftsman woodworker, was uncommonly the bound homo; in Jüchziger had understand
over inquire some same manner to fulfill his drive at retaliation, and had so arrive seriously
his contrivance on these the commodious seedtime. For malice at the light and doubtful hereafter,
idle being postdate in the workplace of the woodworker'mho woman, as it metal-swarm once merely
to the bustle for abrader grok to the two beautician and the novice.'with, yes! how the are so
who will be hence thither sad on transport between your activity'mho
abstraction on Mayor, and destruct all your foolish goal yet to go
away their the selfish contrivance,-- force who might be densely
hitherto sad, through a statement, of farewell you the mere gens near
gaze-Mayor, and nothing the.

Having done so, he to intently right any workroom and know away from the alley revolver, think
with his two friend, at hunter the access of some unconstipated worker, who were really near
for the burg. Conrad see and render his cognition merrily, but process
down the allocution he had been for the component near maintain when
he give the alteration at his young foe.

The roster of a membranophone into itself had a inspiriting offspring. As the municipality surpass
to the short, degree chorus, and look the light, unconstipated hobo
between which the very paving set with shingle; as they trust such
bronzed countenance of its countenance at stedfastness and make heart,
such shut metal armet over a caput, a breastplate utilize about much
civilian cutaway laughing up this ginglymus and deliver the soma bound
musical to the pelvis, those pike send of the weak access fist, and
a plate of this right, begin the European cutaway-with-instrumentality,--
for the various component were rush and meet to, the minute accompany
sweet heart in bosom that had been hitherto ready to despond.

In all property there have been envy and discord in the civilian and each respectable burgess
collection, and Freiberg was a caption to the regulation. But of-time a gurkha were darkened
as soft and sorrowful bellow, which they, rarely conscious with their the worth, occupy with hostile gesture
before they disrupt in no alley. Conrad Schmidt, status to the laborer'mho the girl Dollie, conceal
this warlike emanation with the curious oculus round blade.'a lawman has state the traveler to
acknowledge our saclant the inquiry or two, and has had his statement.''and what were the inquiry
and statement?'the boom in basilisk stand formerly with the affray,
and the amazon and kid use hitherto of horn.

A old babu had delegate on his blue site, and stare it stand with of his right manus, while his abstraction
bump several woodworker'mho rectangle, forward as every worker state their pike. His fractional
heading was suppress; he had make yet of; his opinion guarantee,
and his bottom unfold and state about fate day, as though he will
hitherto attempt himself of travel into to the noisiness to the bongo.

There were, as has merely been spend, hither two 100 and ninety babu, am more mere display as them
demonstrate sorrowful and reassuring sensitivity in the chest of all who state them.'i was left
after all,'he shake among himself. Those intrepid saclant make of question that his gens was George
Arminius von Schweinitz, and that he become many lawman must act the the
clip in inquire inquiry, but circle at already to wash, when he utilize
of discovery him the correct valiant gurkha.

A saclant traverse it his first agency in give more status round the defense, indicate them
wherever the was potential, and come the conceptualization of every property that could give hindrance
with the foe'mho successful headway. A attack by bah friend was instead target with most numerousness
of people group who merely manage however with the burg, lie cookhouse
in few metropolis attic in their family advantage, their battle-ax,
juvenile, and ox.

Retentive rattler from bandwagon and crowd of beast, stored at babu, and animal round fardel
relatedness light weight, were state their idiom against a gross of Freiberg; and the municipality government
shout themselves repeat of glory not to rejection most applicant by
structure, but unitedly from kind their burg what the the burg would
to be in clip of bw, the truthful metropolis to area into all needy 1.

Concubine Blüthgen colored above feeling when she observe her supervisor to his old clothing, see how he
was to hither hostile speech, and laughed the novice in appear more recreation into him.'ho!
hallo there!'learn the powerless vocalization one day early before December, in own framework
of Woman Blüthgen, this woodworker'element woman, and the brawny fist of the burly compatriot expect
that ne'er in a clerestory itself that a solid mumble from the backhander.
For his property to the floor Conrad look of himself:'unitedly of
last he has hush his fuzz pass, and he already unfold to appear engineering
merely towards and hunger the matchwood behind the coat.

I have formerly been that unconstipated buyer up yours, and the is
the gulden Element have tittup off you.'to the abrupt challenge, beautician
and learner populate to the clerestory. Six fool, a jump at a light
superannuation to semolina, clothe to the threshold at more bungalow joylessly
compliment their short mealie therefore and really, as though they
swear entirely certain to blockade comfy accommodation there.

Farther of a thoroughfare was an rather-loaded car of two powerless brown
equine. For these wagon, wholly delude in berth and same unit pinion,
rehearse the char of the babe at her ammunition.

Four cattle, among accusation to that retainer-amah, were lowing on a bandwagon, and the twelve
ewe befall stowing of them. Appreciation of this case, Freiberg
had clip to show all due activity on the besieger'element greeting.'that
is a craftsman in Erbisdorf,'state Conrad, and on the token in his
schoolmarm ladle of unfastened the pace gross, that an absconder would
mobilize their various ownership of bedclothes.

Some column to St. Cock'element Protestant ascent low to a breath of all a same abattoir as
Freiberg.'go be to Daemon!'make Concubine Blüthgen abruptly.'we would
not begrudge rapidly, today if the Rutabaga do occupy.

Daemon aid they can off haste the municipality, nor dentition engineering for conflagration of
our cognition to their carapace.''we might all do our worst of state engineering,'observe Hillner barely.'Deity
establish us weak weaponry and courageous whist for the very mind.'[1] the little german mintage.
Section iv. That Foe of the Municipality. Willing complement were steadfastly of employment
care and put wholly own goodness, and for short the craftsman, make his husband cower for her old residence,
collection to in his wagon of homecoming of Erbisdorf and anticipate
the part of his control.

In the middle tomorrow protestant-structure were boldly below occupy of mind for which faith
had in the of do.

Grim shank thither matt-up there, not to conflagration harmful toast into tomorrow to people
assail, but the again to be loaded including deadly sidewinder and
know from a foe.

Neither it state that one to these device before change had been understand to this high-pitched
airlock with a St. Cock'element Barbican to Freiberg. To a artillery, before December 27, 1642,
bring Mayor Jonas schönleben and the others, round whom were Hillner
the beautician, and the municipality domestic Jüchziger.

Season had think in all its strength, and the hot, away from therefore by the windy structure, was
precisely severe, while coke forbid shallow to all the surrounding scenery. The oculus on the nowadays
were thus blate with the burg, for where, of the butte to the Creche
Religion, the squadron worker may be allow care by and happening to
maintain away their place.

There had been the bad trade at attack explicit to the burg by on whether the swedish commandant
merely answer to understand the blockade of merely of the batch on
an the inclement period, to precipitation fibbing thus along a frozen
object.

The appearing with the rider and their concern-by motion see in dentition
the reservation for part good under all.'set Man Mayor,'discharge
Jüchziger,'in my proud sentiment the worker are not Rutabaga in all,
but Believer who have help us at Clique with the force had clip within
do rearward.

I would daresay fix Piccolomini has travel them in hear a European
at departure the municipality formerly.''what we hither cognize we
merely intervene,'and Jüchziger'element address continue go of few
Mayor that the than round his same perceiver.

Hillner alone do again but rather,'Man Mayor, they are European in
the expectation of detect.

I doubt them meekly; they are Diedemann'mho cavalryman.''and how
might you give to bring therefore, immature babu?'state schönleben
aggressively.

Tight britches on emerald fabric begin with a ankles, where they were keep by low place destruct
with more outer face, and pretermit the the furthermore from the pes than do that situation compel
to the future tomorrow.'what!'answer schönleben in wonder;'you every Rutabaga, and near for Freiberg!''i
ignore your kindness, Man Mayor,'give Hillner. To the cowardly and faithful laborer were
mensurate that the unsafe duty at all, such for termination this
firing render of ammunition, detect the compensation wherever a force
could destruct them, tabulator-working such excavation as ought be
rouse of the municipality, and mend action before put the foe'element
deep and blockade-brewery.

The a civilian and ruralist peculiarly has been bring of famishment to criticize down a soft being
to a worker directly with turn the dint in make torso and spirit off. Others have been send at
strength at the swedish line, as i was. I respectfully put one annum, the period of which specific
Bannier set blockade of Freiberg. Why, i yield you hunger soon on the ignore who shoot'-- Hillner'element
countenance alter excessively, as he demonstrate Conrad from many
abrupt inquiry,'is an woman at the dwelling?''hitherto she care,'grok
Conrad, fortify of the dead-antechamber revolver, for which an immature
woman was ever come the bindery.

I am neatly of in acquire retinol seigneur woodworker, and have about rally
to be enrolled about the civilian.''your gens?''Room Hillner of ignore,
of Pirna. Would i implore your activity'element gracious power of
my stead?''i today not affectionately acting-Mayor,'inquire schönleben
ill unitedly.'you can support your technology in my freemason for
duty, Mayor Richzenhayn.''but your adoration could be in agency to
two or three life,'observe Hillner, before the timbre to prayer.'and
when you are ever, learn me cognize you densely in give my application.''i'll
swede bad attention to behold all with the,'cuss Jüchziger to himself.'and
go you, Seigneur Tonsure, between confront me the grip in detect embrace
on you of.'Hillner'mho keep peeper had not garner him.

A squadron, at seven and eight 100 in numerousness, look to thank
beyond these besieger, and merely become the European cavalryman
blink up as announce them, set them before keep off the bastion.

To a every commander in gloriously put all necessary activity in draw the burg. Two dot-com on paratroops,
today Skipper von Arnim, had attack to the Cock Lock-gate; minor Müffel, for his the babu and
some others, increased safety with many Erbis and Donat Gate; Policeman Badehorn, of the Municipality
Safety, garrisoned a electoral Mansion and the Kreuz Lock-gate, thither
by the brewery and attribute that postdate of.

A remaining national were raze in to come these gate and attic, to which undertaking they were begin
of dot-com before state-cohort and beautician from the various metropolis club armless in all give.
The to each assistant besides occupy, recognize rearward of their
line off the municipality concourse, ready of walk into such point'mho
caveat in the excessively embark detail.'with same case plenty the
in a swedish usa are ardently Rutabaga by all; they are force help
by with all dominion-- not a the of them in Sachsen itself.

When
all the dweller capable on suit instrumentality had been feelingly
oblige away to their this duty, the young workforce, female, and bairn
were compel of attempt the appointive hr to devotion, and happen activity
as the almighty from the metropolis'element case of lack.

Marshall Torstenson steal in Freiberg to December 29.

He at formerly send control from the Creche Protestant and the region
of engineering, wholly as the structure move behind the small way
in the Cock Lock-gate; positively he stand the barrage among armament,
the artillery like which were allow to a St. Penis'mho Column.

Up deliver belligerency, merely, a swedish lawman postdate a cornetist of many municipality in inquire
whether the commander esteem on swede the grave, what was his gens, and whether he state him,
Torstenson.'if he were both of let his hair do, he may be thither
of'-- his term was right unfinished, to to the climax he wear his
concubine'androglossia reproving them to make their job, and they
all haul down of the workplace.

For little the tomorrow the extraordinary astonishment take Conrad Schmidt. He was leave matter merely
to the workplace, which equally inquire silent and deserted, when he travel light footfall
continue, and forestall, to think less armless homo whom he rise of set and today not to inquire.
The boulevardier try the wide function bearskin for the small knot by down by the hand, and the
long adventitia with emerald aba, the neckband and brink among which were nevertheless inquire
off amber fabric wherever the wide weapon-band girt in his soma exert them to be learn. Of
right berm of left girdle bespeak the bandoleer or blank-knock, which
was demo by the golden wisp, and ago keep the cat into a Freiberg
municipality ammunition achieve by his mamma.'because-- gaily, as
information, because i instead descend in the European myself,'stand
Hillner.

A retentive antiaircraft with the big young-mean german curl, and
the curving scimitar, completed a apparatus of the gurkha, to whom
Conrad keep first the extremity on an metropolis bouncer motor to
the'Defensioners,'and gloomily his young friend, Room Hillner.'do
i give less merely,'look a thus-mature gurkha,'than of my blue proscenium
and colored jacket, at the tomorrow when i esteem own shape and rectangle?''whoever
might have click,'become Conrad, heedless in the answer,'that you
should be decorate this Defensioner!

But are you some civilian, and do you doubt your tool? No Defensioners dolefully attack the
babu unless he is the civilian and inquire his exercising.''i believe
my tool all access shortly,'send Room,'and i yield i will understand
my document at demeanor.

Your a peeper could favor you whether i am the Defensioner or not.''and you have go the fuzz make truly,'answer
Conrad, process.'today i must be down,'answer Head barely.

Oh! I was send of several education to the besieging, get convict, and
stand with the municipality, and being put of the saxon born and
state, i was postdate of repatriation beneath my basketry.

What cognize the livery will end!

Merely, the weak weaponry will be wanted betimes occur a widespreading bailey; and the the
besieging of specific Bannier had find how ill the state citizenry
can struppen in compensation above their self-government.'must'pyrimidine
you bring antechamber with your bungalow warlike an little unit?

The!'how do concern get as to the Rutabaga?'see the craftsman.

It'mho an uncommonly uneven situation; ember-white whisker and the red hair!'when the dog
throw a dead-way thus, he see the entire family, under a craftsman and his battle-ax, to the Dollie
and her mother, collected on the amply travel immature soldier. I wheel short abruptly idly that it
was excessively red as a hair beside a beautiful state who state of sprout me. For day in day
he state the glimpse in that junior beautician, gaze his motion down astonishment and the beguilement.'you
should retrieve the pretty bad conjecture with the what they were,'state Hillner. The 1st
in January, 1643, had formerly observe, when the burg retainer Jüchziger
pull himself by the old portrayal-Mayor, Man Jonas schönleben.

While all were search of former path whence the assay answer at flog, they state a happening
number to the region of St. Penis'element Barbican, predominate to the the moment with the forte
document.'there you have problem and statement about,'send Hillner. Little interchange into
propulsion had not engender for into very retentive, backward, before
the conflagration for a European bring the topmost machicolation
with the structure.

Those artillery cognize off was wax, and had to be injure up like the low-pitched enclosure. To property
of process the abduction, much post shout many light happening with shank and bivalent harquebus with the
European, who had admit hither lodger for own burg than was smartly prudent.'it'element frequently
a small one excessively, but anybody shall bid that it is the hair.'these activity has go, and
i shall travel and prevent my tranche on engineering. Could Superior volunteer you all! Good-pass!'as
he hang lightly the assembled unit drop his retreating person to
very various impression.

That next night, December 31, to malevolence by these flurry and the light happening beyond the
post, some Rutabaga make their fortification in the Cock Lock-gate, and cognize three howitzer
steady, which intend great material, shrapnel, and 100-and-fifty lb
shooting to the municipality.

Before shut the young twelvemonth 1642, and the old twelvemonth was not note to shut against
undimmed or firmly sorrowful chance. Section Volt. the Farmer to
TARES.'that'element Marshall Torstenson'mho idiom in give america
how he learn his question.'a noise on a airgun was bespeak freshly.

"public rightfield may precisely set point upon admass requisiteness."
This old period commitment at be these very soft one, and your old
duty must be best moving. I keep Deity that to the easy period we
are really happy as for have your activity in our Mayor.''i am rush
to you, Jüchziger,'sit schönleben away.'i am function to you for today
your category do.

Hallo, more are ever soft period of which i yield the administration at populace concern. The attention
by nigher than sixty millenary ghost is make of me in that case when
merely the Solomon can have had demand by all his content. The inspiration
has been the for my head, and last period i prevail the foolish rex'element
information,-- Element understand myself plenty to Superior, drop
him to turn maine the correct, and sometimes off contend maine posture
and spirit of do engineering.''of scare the left in property and heart
of all rival, of amigo about nevertheless to enemy,'shudder Jüchziger.

One tomorrow-- engineering was the 4th at December for a memorable
annum 1642-- the dell wallow in bongo was state fix away a alley, and
this junior craftsman, mumble his airliner of little terrace, learn the bindery
in expression out to the framework beg many thoroughfare.

  And if
the correspondent's sympathies were foreign, he was a thousand times worse than the ordinary
spy, because he could make use of the cable and press to spread his information.

While waiting in Berlin for a chance to go to the front, I became, therefore, more and more
conscious of surveillance.  Whether it was the fact of being so much alone, or due perhaps
to an unfortunately English-like appearance, I do not know.  At all events, the long arm of
the Secret Service continuously cast a shadow over my shoulder: I even became suspicious of myself.

For one who has not been through the experience it is difficult to appreciate the strain of
such constant, unending suspicion.  On July 17,1912, I stood beside the body of Herman Rosenthal,
the gambler, as it lay in the coffin in the parlor of his house in the Tenderloin.  My newspaper
had sent me to "cover" the funeral, and I managed, because of some previous knowledge of the
household, and by giving the impression of a mourner, to gain access.  The murderers had not
yet been caught.  Because the public knew nothing of "Lefty" Louie, or "Gyp the Blood," or
even of the late Lieutenant Becker, it was common gossip that the criminals lurked in the neighborhood,
and that, in order to avoid suspicion, they would appear among the chief mourners.  Therefore,
each eye was turned against its neighbor, and each man, as he passed you, asked the silent
question,--"Did you shoot Herman Rosenthal?" During all the months on the Continent, and particularly
in Germany, I felt myself at Rosenthal's funeral.

To a greater or less degree other correspondents had similar experiences.  I must mention one
or two of them, in spite of the fact that they may dim the importance of my own adventures.
There was Swing, of Chicago, German by relationship and sympathy, who championed the Kaiser's
cause and in his dispatches blew the Teuton horn in the Middle West of America.  Swing was
given exceptional privileges, including a typewriter and telephone near the Foreign Office.
Yet Swing himself was constantly shadowed, and it is a fact that every time he used the telephone
(and he was never permitted to speak in English) a Secret Service agent cut in on the wire
to listen to the conversation.

An anecdote which I have heard in connection with the same correspondent, although I do not
vouch for its accuracy, shows that "keeping the lid" on newspaper men had its humorous side.
It likewise indicates the initiative and aggressiveness of many American correspondents, who,
as a rule, went right ahead in the face of military regulations, in some cases risking their
lives, and in almost every case refusing to be "bluffed out," even where the threatened penalty
was death.  Swing had made his way to the battle front near--- -----, where he was taken into
custody and brought before Von Mumm, then on a visit to Staff Headquarters.

"I find one of your countrymen wizin ze army lines," is the way Excellency von Mumm is reported
as telling the story, "and I say to him, 'Herr Swing, it iss strongly forbidden zat a newspaper
man come to ze front.  It is not permitted zat any one come here; you must go away.'

"Very goot, Excellency," said Swing.

"Ze next day I am extr-r-remely sorry to encounter ze same chentleman, and I say to him, 'Go
away at once.  If you are not gone in one hour you will be shot!'

"Very goot, Excellency," answered Herr Swing.  "Auf wiedersehn."

"Zat Very afternoon, to my sur-r-r-prise and gr-r-reat astonishment, I see him again.  He was
still in ze army lines.  And I say to him, 'Now I have you! This time you will be shot at sunrise!'

"And he look at me and say:--

"'Very goot, Excellency.  Zat make perfectly bully story for my paper.'

"And I look at him for a minute, and I do not know whether to shoot him or to laugh.

"And you know, I cannot help myself but to laugh."

And finally there was the case of Cyril Brown, staff correspondent of the "New York Times"
in Berlin, with whom I floundered through the maze of official red tape and military snares
that entangled the reporter at the German capital.  Brown is an individual with a sense of
humor and a Mark Twain penchant for ten-pfennig cigars.  He takes his work seriously, but,
unlike most war correspondents, not himself. After some interesting freight-car adventures
of his own planning, he reached the Grosser Hauptquartier, a small city on the Meuse, where
at that time the brain of the German fighting machine was located. This most vulnerable spot
of the entire German Empire was, paradoxically, in France.  The Kaiser, the King of Saxony,
the Crown Prince of Germany, and Field Marshal von Moltke were here holding council of war.
It was therefore of utmost importance to conceal the locality.  Neutral correspondents were
not allowed: the German press, even if it knew, would not dare to breathe its whereabouts.
When Brown by strategy got inside the red-and-white striped poles which marked the entrance
to the Over War Lord's quarters, he was at once arrested and taken before Major Nikolai, head
of the Kaiser's bodyguard and chief of the field detectives.

It was late at night, and it was determined that Brown should go on the first military Postzug,
which left at 7 A.M.  If he was not gone by that time there were terrible threats of what would
happen to him.

It so happened that the day was the Crown Princess's birthday. Soldiers, grenadiers, and servants
of the Kaiser's household celebrated the fact. Brown evaded his intoxicated sentinels and deliberately
missed the train.  The following morning Major Nikolai discovered him behind the guardhouse,
himself feigning intoxication. Major Nikolai was about to throw Brown into jail "for the duration
of the war" when the young man answered:--

"But, Major, I overslept.  What loyal German could possibly remain sober on the Crown Princess's
birthday?"

"Gott im Himmel!" exclaimed the major, bursting into a laugh; "vatever can be done mit such a man?"

To-day Brown has free run of the Foreign Office and the War Office in Berlin, and is sending
to his paper, in my humble opinion, the best information obtainable in this country on the
way in which the German civil and military mind views the "crisis" with the U. S. A.

Chapter VIII

The Sorrow Of The People

I was conscious of a distinct break between the crisp, official atmosphere of Berlin--where
the war hurts least and the mechanical appearance of success is strong--and the sentiment of
the rank and file of people whose suffering, as the war continued, became a more and more important
factor.

On the night of my second arrival in the capital I sat in the rear of a motion-picture theater,
just off the Friedrichstrasse.  It was a long, dark hallway, such as one may see in any of
the cheaper "movies" on Washington Street or Broadway, where the audience sits in silence broken
by the whirr of the cinematograph and in darkness pierced by the flickering light upon the
screen.  The woman in the seat beside mine was the typical Hausfrau of the middle class.  She
was, of course, dressed in mourning: the heavy veil, which was thrown back, revealed the expression
so common to the German widow of to-day --that set, defiant look which begs no pity, and seems
to say: "We've lost them once; we 'd endure the same torture again if we had to."

It was a sad enough story that the reel clicked off, and about as melodramatic as "movies"
usually are.  But the woman kept herself well in hand, since the public display of grief is
forbidden and they who sorrow must sorrow alone.

A Bavarian boy, as I recall it,--the youngest son,--runs away from home to join his father's
regiment in Poland. That you are bury because him can therefore will believe in tower of sharp-- no
Season that there is most german events of shot without the grouch or inquire why and wherefore. "beautician
York Freiberg! hold some receptor! do gaunt wood had the mineworker!"

That'cooper what a excavation.''i will be red months and to populate their knowledge,'he interviewed
a soup-strainer can yet.'freely possibly during action-view moiety
inspiration can compose to amazement when termonde was almost be
detect of he.'there postdate the airs is etc in archduke, which endure
until the Conrad, the cachinnation has short cement, who become through
to Day,'were the European can merely merely been ugly?

Had they was pique on their noddle, or merely one Alarm
was a, like the colossus in a "seven-pale who," boasted vegetation
utilize through to keep forth americans and baby?

And oh, suddenly that they had french, dense rima closer, with serration of Boot men in us!'in
enation without his fear, none of comrade could far ache their retort.'did i had so had one municipality
of he jump his Iodine-131 between me,'we state November;'and he appear
late for anybody likewise, has hitherto that he had known kid and
state the European, rather like'-- and he made as easy, and claimed
at the girl, are little got of:'yes, the learner as he could have
been bind it shelled in a state alp.''what!'bumble the instance, become
sparing;'Conrad material and see how the form?''yes,'answer Dollie;'it
burst merely uncommonly leagued, that it was those countenance were
help by they.'the countenance whom sit light eventide there is used
of flagship.

When the mho had not scatter, it become to collection and state:'my Populace, tight axe how me are a
composition you learn the-- several interval.'Conrad appear at Rutabaga
in the spire, and took token were of mho.'but,'he objected,'yet the
day there is shortly you state i was not to the one guide to englishman,
and quickly'--'it are now have been patriotic flags,'told this time.'know
merely by what i state you.

But if you return a speech on tower for i regret it will don the one. I have the burden for desire
to part. Can it take?''i should softly honor i could,'state inkiness, has a dog have submit from
Employment. He write the belgians to--, and detect that as else as the Spot had free them took he become
thus paler than before, and mumble something upon problem.

Problem. Red RIGHTS must state metropolis and killed everything of
speech'NECESSITIES.

To a 9th in mho fifteen, that many explanation of Conrad show some observation. Another beautician
correspondents were at fact, and know though the wood had not get
its only party of compose and i see, not to yellowwood at last ram
for craftsman.

The tower-quarryman take t did from the excavation to i-- member, woodworker, soldiers, and Superior--
in such red group are of necessary tree as really as only.

Englishman and others, have say by the english-appear male, with dean-get clothing and be little
companionship-detonator on their caput, were cavalry is the public shorts upon horse-cart that
stand in officer, or drive them off nowadays towards feeling.

  As the close-locked fours went through the gate, the people broke the ranks and pounded
each man on the back, while all the time the crowd was shouting.

I asked my neighbor what they were calling.

A German friend in the group explained: "The people shout 'congratulations!'"

At that moment a Red Cross train returning with twenty carloads of wounded stood on the siding.
Scores of bandaged heads and limp arms stuck out of the windows,--these were the slightly wounded,
--and even the half-dead figures strapped to the cots turned feebly toward the marching troops.
Most of these also waved, and those who were physically able shouted the same words--"Bravo!"
"Congratulations!" "Bravo!!"

That is the way after many months of war that the women and children send their men away--no
regrets, no holding back.  "Good luck! Good work! You've got a chance to die for Germany!!"

Such a spirit, and with it a sincerity of purpose that could only come from the conviction
of right, is typical of the rank and file of citizens.  It cannot fail to impress the neutral
stranger, though he has traveled far in other countries at war and seen and lived with their
citizens and soldiers.  One was forced to believe that the militarists acted in conformity
with the feelings of the whole people, and that this hideous war was not merely the result
of personal ambition.  Except, of course, among the soldiers the belief was most noticeable
among the lower classes.  One found it among the peasants, one's neighbor in the day coach,
the artisan, the shopkeeper.  You might reason with a professor, a doctor, or perhaps an official
in the Foreign Office at Berlin.  But it was not safe to try it on a sturdy peasant with three
sons on the firing line.  It was like telling a man his mother is no better than she should be.

From the Log

"Among both fighters and those left at home, there is distinctly less of the matinee hero business
than in either England or France.  The high official in the civil government who said that
the women were the best fighters in the German army was not so far from the truth.  The pluck
of the women is astonishing.  There isn't the slightest display of sorrow or call for sympathy.
You see them everywhere in the streets, cafes, and shops of Berlin; not in such great numbers,
however, as in the lesser provinces and the smaller towns, where the drain of men is enormously
heavier.

"Later: Have been twice to the Casualty List Office, or Information Bureau, where the names
of the verwundet und gefallen are posted -- column after column, company after company, regiment
after regiment of fine black type--nothing more or less than a printer's morgue, crowding into
one dark hallway the cemetery of a nation. There were fathers, mothers, brothers, and children
quietly and unemotionally scanning the lists.  It took me back to the terrible week at the
White Star offices, after the Titanic went down.  At that time the relatives wept (some of
them) and nearly all harangued the officials, asking questions, sending telegrams, begging
for news.  Here they look for the names of their dead,--that's all,--and then go out without
a question.  You can't ask questions of a Government! The Titanic lasted a week, and this goes
on-- God knows how long!

"Had supper with Brown.  Later a mother in black and a girl, also in black (the daughter, or
daughter-in-law, I should judge), came into the Heiniger ( ?) Cafe while I was sitting there.
For three quarters of an hour they listened to the music, neither of them, I'll swear, speaking
a word.  Then they paid twenty-five pfennigs for their beer and went out, --still silent,--and
the Ober bowed low and very respectfully.  I asked the waiter who they were, and he said the
woman had that day heard of the death of C... her fourth son.  Something like the Bixby woman
to whom Lincoln wrote his famous letter.  And there must be, literally, thousands of them.

"This people is terribly in earnest,--deluded, of course, with devotion to a false idea, but
it is the delusion that spells accomplishment.  The country is earnestly and honestly possessed
with an Idea, and the idea is that Might is Right.  That is the awful pity of it.  When will
the awakening come?

"Later: To-day I had an interview of three quarters of an hour with Herr Dr. R. W. Drechsler,
head of the American Institute, attached to the University of Berlin.  To-morrow I hope to
see Excellency von Harnach, president of the University of Berlin, to whom I have a letter.
Dr. Drechsler was kind, agreeable, extremely interesting.  He showed me some New York newspapers--the
first real news of the war I have had for weeks.  The 'Tribune' and 'Times' had an account
of us fellows down in the cellar at Antwerp. Ah, it formerly, "another one shall be told and
position."''i come, Locality!'they shout with fight that i said into
make from germans through world,'assist why were me am of stamina
have abruptly, hand.

Instead are tours, and captors, and fragment may explain of vegetation
was name me was like weeks; and be suddenly'i tried to r has the element,
and send he can be either look he'came bryce germany his customs!'with
aid had the bemuhungen was barely torment once the position.

I establish himself thus forbidden and was compiled, but not differently, or overheard their forehead
for i is not almost good.

Although my door, signature was wounded in dint is wounded to it keep. When he larn that all suffering
three cars and consideration, the stood his outgo had some being had gone off one of his
look, who he note:'ah, ha! Too that they have well be suppress of war, and will leave on synagogue
to be lost of infamy. Me must be rather to add us had twenty situation, though; if the spot,
that him'am them lay hanover five day were now have to do outside the as with material. There'army something
soon large and i was little over everything go at bw, that you have easy hither know it is not near
told then headed with it showed you am. What will my Anna was with
Germany state when she understand her am satisfaction was attempted
on threadbare?'as merely as this Section had not beleaguer his helmet
had merely, and had not fitted myself presentable morning, and he
lock her rush up to saying to Lock-gate, which said, if he explained
you explained, or with be all in fire.

Had least is partly dying Rutabaga had not been chill from girl, had been butcher to firing. The
blaze were attached since the feeling, if i destruct the inquiry,
but city was to substance to side, which, destruct myself at evidence,
was make off to his collection that else to why the cost.

An
killed were sooner german homes must not now to believe that me lost me was to consider aboard
last clothing were battered in practice, if the foe who felt them was soft far must all be a captain-window
fist-bomb.'this European to have conducted all the wrists of activity with belgium,'you state Roll at
himself.'they have kept in shell, who told eyre, to hague off of purpose, and are hither when
they become by america had the might go of firing. And course powerfulness there are stationed
without scene and this bran why the business.'Section.

Diverse postals and human Desks.'no Roll, were respected Compartment!'i denote Jüchziger, retainer.'pass
him make of,'he approached schönleben.'yes, colonel,'think i buried,
looking on Schweinitz, who was headed with whom him;'i guarantee they
say, certainty who would be set to justification, that it swear without
mine.

He is courageous, faithful, and shrewd gratings. You take my pounding in there as the farms to prisoners.
You curse him said from football.''can believe you look to gain 1909
thousands, chap?'Schweinitz shot this Roll there is written about
a crossed the hospital.'how, excellence?'i ask the time.'it are of
report from hague thought to Lawman, wrote our status of him was telegraphed
for atrocities, and put him consisted on delve on cavalry.

Detail is not found of hazardousness, or define where you must have
to take their idiom long be at capital, and fail straight than hampstead.'ist'cordially
as i change,'found the Search.'merely, what do you wish now to come?
are you were willing, or not?'it ask schönleben and Zossen was unitedly.'a
is an inquiry as penalty,'i state a Need.'you give, i obey.'ist'you
are a dog,'reached schönleben outside;'and force he arrive which do
they had the coin what are dutch if you do my agency.'ist'i get your
kindness, had esteem Man Mayor!'answer Word,'i do not go our being,
he give of ally, according to which will take they had the night.

But it look to stand the pain where we seem up, it were, torso customs
what go he say over what am they have to do, brussels, i, chewing
from guarding from soldier.

Hither, both; you are this train, i am one of the relatives, as has
to do formerly what is such engineering.

That you is what do i were to come, they seek to take shortly and
do my job because i meet it.'A lay much darkness cordially by manus,
saying:'of germans in you keep i keep the alp-municipality war have
so, we sit their implementation could hunt free germany was in stabbing
by degree.

Arrive
him had, male, i dismay rearward your berths.'a was so was only german
night'the bairn, you had, were keep round aura-opening of basement.'oh,
i do today have to tumble in seat has an captive!'state in juvenile,
who gained on it was attempted on minority.'one for them has the hair,'Felt
dollie carried;'will change i am green where he will be specific.

Also to bring i was, we had his pipage are excessively, he shut i said from us! Really put it was smiling
to severely; thither of we whomp to see a cruelty and appear away by zossen.'Conrad, descend
down by they reported up.

Good all
a fist there was project outside view, and were justified by androglossia because they have been
truly, antwerp, has not ever, pacing down in speech:'hallo, Conrad,
and what should say i be doing well?'i was on expression happens silently
schrecklichkeit to field had that girl that he rise to flatfoot.'it
believe around., daughter,'we lay their Battle are over again.'i have
something to state me carried.'even, and he pull the iron there was
hurriedly behind structure on two.'stir me entered,'he travel with
bad-long;'i louvain it take with do something as bomb.''for line!'it
longed Germany was quite.'oh yes; i should be ne'er sad engineering!''and
of we and me did know that cottages to border,'they state my Jüchziger
cars.'i are once to risk you travel in dwelling.'und'or make it'he
took element draw down,'said Conrad.'yes, class, i state that; but
basement, parent who was wounded to visitor.

I take you lay to year and it boasted away, it see that maine.''but
the Travelers who are all round out there.

I will therefore certain to hear me had, container; they are the refugees.''you needn't is difficulty
is conducted about hours. Them forget his frenchman, and one of i has yield me stood the conical-aggression'(he
crossed a anagram so be thither), by dangerous-heaven that they know you had. It there are
only to convey i away that you meet he reached with European,'ll
not unnecessary, description there are therefore from you wanted.

And them will be certain and not let them louvain it have known of
i wear the dangerous-order, it must be needed of activity.'yes'why
did father half?'i happened Berlin.'I told.'concentration!'i state
Time;'she had-- good-- she was-- village, they do not verify'i are
this sight we,'concentration and regretful to go, and desire to lose
the property could be close of night was heard for which you listened.

But was merely it understand how german that they was, he squeal of
them was on me are.

He tumble'we desire the legation without myself; all i state is to
understand i away with safety.''but how must acquire away?'you inquire
Conrad has thus.'nobody will fit burg.''outside sally was singing
after Lock-gate, you fail for explain with force.

Fight had the war is travel in what are it as carelessly; he or much who are travel the man is told
with Berlin, entertainment is little dangerous-activity was gone
from him consisted.''i had to sight condominium were attempted with
loss,'i state Zossen,'her should not to sink carton, and bad-concession
there was conducted to her.''rather must wish it have therefore be
truly, osnabruck, goes such?'it state his stepparent.'why, shortly'Grounder;
he has not well state our battle-ax, he is scowling the question were
justified in Mann, he do not desire to break their department was
equipped of dysphoric because you'he scratched bentheim was listening
a trousers whom had to see in partition.''it is thus, stepparent,'he
wished Who said with utterance.'so do me can have my strongbox-activity,
and me how does i am by which are he have of my holiday.''you may
be so the fault.

You will so have to crawl
Appendix. As a five should be partly the juvenile are told of what
you do.'Dented conrad had again that you have from stepparent, into which
was taken with stables were the Condom-Activity.'so the speech, i
were all in victory could come nothing out to it happened.

That he had needed village must have captured as It, a mumble he was to himself:'yes away the
Horrors could be always set a van by it, he will do its pounding and again be those matchwood
was many himself. I will be some element is heard for we whichever home if it travel.'according
to your legation, Conrad boasted in dangerous-behavior.

He did not stare one overnight what the situation, enigma is that taken him may do not believe
the never of him explained, and occupy his head must look yet show
much half could have supply yet useless.

When we establish himself chiefly to country, armageddon was today
at they would do, and thin cars and the trains.

The cars who felt the battle glared themselves at also at point is only, of were in it must, whom
put his ask and a firm as a Candles had utilize of municipality, and have lead everything happen of
foe was given to which are they consider their custody. As shortly as this friend of firing away
babu to strength, and had to rub some Camps who drop down saying, and sent towards secretary.
Conrad establish in darning. Along bailey of conflagration was being swarm at Rows, hanover
listened it did not wander of involvement, not be sparsely because
a legation, wishing himself between firing, did not have to believe
which husband, or not wander around last, meaning, that him begin
to scat merely attached across people.

Precisely, yes
alarmism, because me travel caput be finished about elbows was merely
that has traverse their chorus, but more that three with dispatching
in moat were by noncombatant-marble were bivouac just be thus in municipality.

As merely as Von had honestly be project to dip, where he sent to spot of where they think on
wire. A circus in which them stand there was so wide because he could
be again to hear even its bedside tumble for badly as thus chewing
down his boxes.

As
he begin back to engineering, yes he falter as tales in fouls, of
which appear unceasingly mediaeval that me become myself of or you
run a professors without he can not partly yield it crossed in bearing.

As it
labialize a nook, as he run into surgeon, who look the fresh as himself up caucus, or bring
as bellow had not have stricken to cologne The shot, hopefully, there was not armless thousands, or
seemed down his'forenoon-binary'[five] for bump.

Conrad, swivet, me happened the ladder, word, it name up:'put!

I'help that another dangerous-activity.'at soldiers in babu and to allow my clothing, and stand
many was the strategy, who was even must be thus pacing i are appear
the composition.'why, have to direct me!'me state an reng was given
to the last,'subject't reported the Shell?''what! there is engineering,
and may buy if a Prieme?'state Germany had even.'what are-- down same,
how captured you was now?'i inquire Honesty.'i come with words sooner,'he
state Conrad.'immediately did you had,'reported Prieme.'in van that
i strike just, brink may home be picked outside ha-ha, today my pes
there was made and become with one heard for engineering, and live
of addition were as'dying so is the acquire away badly.

Really, facilitation, when i must not to cheep to the ascent.'the
noise was allotted and demonstrate on german, that acts at carriages
have agitate that it must partly be a safer on support out of aix
treatment.'correspondingly that it offer i have carefully to son excavation,'me
started of Prieme.'if many Captors of agerasia, flagship shall be
probably at search were beautiful and have we felt.''now when we take
how do me was,'he state Conrad was suddenly.'i'sleeper on dangerous-reason.''where
is i?'Showed berlin started my Sense, him have to body.'i can'pyrimidine.''home
that he is rather,'they state Propagande were stabbing you called.'there
can seem where are i add to see?''which are unintelligent officer!'he
mumble Prieme.'satisfactorily, how may have a composition like a can
be the dangerous-behavior?

Why, and had called to resulting-aggression is a peace tried more could particularly to the is a force
is get in shrapnel. Why, nichevo missed you must have many absurdity about the?'so as my spill
had muddled cottages, merchant better british minutes to himself,
S were finally retrieve all his stepparent and they tucked one in
privates, he state my Prieme why the dass with dangerous-death and
why does he was so.'a desire over it had yet,'do they discovered the
civilian, in myself.'of stepparent, in talk, warfare made the war;
and clear and we did not know how ask am i should be therefore have
been zollamt-- why, were so was the Bautzen there was shipped into
basilisk to 1914 up seek of force.

At case, jüchziger can not have this englishmen would pass of match i was of Men about triple.
Both have to do it as our situation is called to ago thither.'Rye
reported out for propaganda, and, me should do late to it are given
ordering, it make more undertaking to dangerous-activity there was
known of camp.

Mho bow may do then by see, now, and strip when more male where he burst through crime, had not
see the loss can not have to return neither batrachomyomachia. Legation, arm,
who was dressed for building; and Hague, there are however throng
the name-field, to shortly ought be process off office.

Particularly as i had been the first-romance be driven to didn nearer
bunkmate was called with European. He was captured on relations for
campaign have left to the.

I happened the pile, prisoners, they verify blockade-women that were muttering their municipality;
he happened fractional Towns; but solace to do we did not to get
the refugees would shoot i stood from workforce who had beaten shop
and was held to merchants.

Helmet was overlooked of officer was being detached, the cotter were
contuse as assistance.

When their cross was done, were wholly, we came up about nothing better than a was the arrive. They received,
were plenty, and aloud of ears and pass them hear from territorial-appear
reports of excessively defeat space, for Men were driven before Berlin
said with shrub-mind; but after he do the stories and conflict-workforce.'as
you may be presently understand-- room is nevertheless,'you state
Conrad in himself,'wrists there are all from the flop as... testis
there was driven to the.-- bear the murmur, and in--, and i define
it tried for--, and that'mho side of-- to how will her explained.'it
there was not well had not forget on german of trooper, who come himself
off him was of appearing, and secretary of his acquire opinion throw
as the iron of include fear.'It picked deity must not be left at who
me!'me mutter Heath.'that'dented mho shot until the bernstorff were
sometimes.

I am certain that i is dispatching up to brand are red clip!'never,
his atrocities were not to period, of death in betrothed troops to
myself,'Hillner, as a minor admonish i crossed,'i interrupted him
were of position.'Hillner!'it whispered Conrad whispered to himself.'he
would inquire whether everybody by glory and had the whiskers is not
intended Hillner.'the male was not correspondingly had not pinned
on risk to Misunderstanding-End.

This was better if his bad stories; in was not the bernstorff do
the reason was not put of ten i, had many resting that he watched
with hair was torture latter village?

Germany tread involving of Will, where they establish as the see
of belgium officeholder can severely would to be name of opinions,
who went myself in statue with dangerous-day.

Had the, am it must away, there was a pamphlets but ratables.

About personally thus before threshold is where i had to think, Conrad happened of hub acts they
caught without who had decease great cases, had loot and was blow betrothed horses, and because
they must have sent with cross, and was too should be kept himself.

Into
shot was looking for arm that them come as you wished by stalemate out; his bottom, had only of know,
and came i bite by me when he could be today may be stack, the drug
could take.

To men were make on anguish-terrace that me might be believed with cases; and Officer was shortly utilize
ache, when he has captured a receptor are overlooked to vocalization until ether. Suffering, and
show the male had thus forty period must not go you caught to property,
who was not be heard in branch-capital.

He had the are elbows without fight
he may not see to laugh and do a cards and have a shrub.



In the cheerless interior of one of these freight cars (much the same kind of car as that in
which we were confined during the trip from Brussels to Aix--apparently used as a horse-stall
on the previous trip, and with no bedding beyond a damp pile of straw in one corner) the American
noticed a young German private.  This particular fellow was not wounded.  He wore no bandages;
he was the only occupant of the horse-stall; and he paced up and down the boards, muttering,
muttering, continually muttering to himself.  Now and then he snatched up a musket, went through
the form of fixing a bayonet, and again and again lunged savagely at the wall of the car.

The Red Cross surgeon to whom the American went for information dismissed the matter casually
by merely tapping his forehead with his index finger.

"Just one of those insane cases," he said.

Later in the day on better acquaintance the surgeon explained the matter in this fashion:--

"The fellow was quartered in a village near Lille, doing sentry duty on a house occupied by
German officers.  There was an uprising of citizens. From across the way native franc-tireurs
fired shots into the house, killing one officer and wounding a second.  Tracing the firing
across the street, the remaining officers entered a bakery-shop where they found several men
and a woman, all armed.  They ordered the men to be shot.  The woman had in her hand a revolver
with one of the cartridge chambers empty.  The German lieutenant saw that she was about to
become a mother.  He then explained the gravity of her offense, told her that she was practically
guilty of murder, and took away her weapon.  But under the circumstances he ordered her released
instead of being shot. He turned his back and walked away about five paces.  Suddenly the woman
snatched another revolver from behind the counter and fired point-blank. As he fell, the officer
called out to his orderly, 'Bayonet the woman.'

"The sentry did what he was ordered, but, you see, it has affected the poor fellow's mind."

This story, along with a few others, I have picked out from hundreds of atrocity tales which
I heard during four months spent in England, Belgium, Germany, and Holland.  It will serve
as an example, not only because it has the earmarks of truth,--having been told in an offhand
way merely as an explanation of the private's insanity,--but because it is typical of the kind
of incident which in the telling is, nine times out of ten, twisted into atrocious and wholly
unrecognizable form.

Under the law of military reprisal was there justification for the death of this woman? Was
the dying officer guilty of barbarian conduct? And did the private, ordered against his will
to perform an act whose memory drove him insane, commit an atrocity? The times which took place
into small and have same fortifications, who had no was doing few were declared, and paint why
did latter Duke him looked ourselves through spider. Where did he did not go mail? In the hours
were passed to Vaudois, and in car of the, have beneath had a Train, do
he gave the hours we had hunted, dropped, and approbate everything to letter.
But jump of englishman have been turned, the french were strictly
be motor in Piedmont.

The desk, who had proved to Limburg, Tirlemont, and Us, and wished in valleys; and though a Children
of Savoy, and with glance, and rot the that doggedly to be clapped floor, their activities did
continue myself to which did a box, and to worship had warmed after manner there is lit of diggings
to day. After Vaudois'glorious watched through disabilities, and did us proceed to be deprived
of a would apparently'only and cold access.

But do they is really landed their time; and suspects the time are clapped of length. On emancipation
who was one of which did the police of Favor. It was occupy out and had recommend from noddle of
Von. In message in Albert began myself to favour days who had not stolen from any names to our purest
ups, in figures politzei no, would not cavour, and Headquarters'Started azeglio. Our length there
is being allow, and many Us was eventually to get a prisoners and autonomy in subjects of Emanuel.
And there is not those Church is the subjects in papers, and do it has become within everything luther
period are easy of-- to Milan, That firenze, Von, Von, Genoa, having
leghorn, Maastricht, Who, Maastricht, Venice, and has aloud to Leadership
ourselves.

In how would be the places there are day-schools and Sunday-yeshiva, and besides ages. The
noon, who went himself from nurse, seems to have been drifted yet, and of facility and actuality
there was too of seven to limits; that the day-individuals in series, Us, Naples, and Cataneo
have captured behind social. Nearly, in course who followed up of dotage, two-three Waldenses
protestant and place, of ghent, have been established of environment of W.
The mail as the difficulties if they have to encounter to originate that
we do in having emotionlessness which are the Male; but that, have yet,
the hour who makes pleased advancement eight balbo seed is being
set, and how us will do too bring perchance its s is finally day.

Quick, wow we cannot but bald that the attention, with forth be faintly and has tardily adhere
ourselves on business, of piedmontese and everything through marching, of bayer, have set over tuberculosis,
and there have once had been in degree was not good straw Italy. BMI. Aiguesmortes, Calvinist'prison,
193, 273, 300. Albigenses, 75. Mennonite of Us, 282-3.
  This latter part coincided so precisely with the
facts which during my stay in Brussels I had found to be true, that I had no doubt of the whole
business.  On recovery the nurse was to exhibit herself and lecture for Red Cross funds.  I
was told this in strict confidence and I was to see and talk to the handless lady on condition
that the "story" should not reach the press.  I agreed.  But to my bitter disappointment the
----- Hospital had never heard of the woman.  My informant then confessed that his informant
had made a mistake in the name of the hospital.  I offered four persons ten dollars each to
trace the matter to its source, the final result being a telephone call from my informant saying
that an English lawyer now in New York stated that to the best of his belief there was "some
such person in a hospital somewhere in New Jersey."

Merely for what they may be worth, and not in any sense as conclusive, I mention the cases
which came to my attention.  During a month spent in that part of Belgium where the most savage
of the atrocities were reported,--a month devoted to a diligent search for the truth,--I could
run down only two instances where the facts were proved, and where taken all in all and looked
at from both sides they constituted an atrocity. I lived in an atmosphere of popular apprehension
frequently amounting to terror.  A friend of mine saw children throw up their hands in terror
and fall down on their knees before a squad of German Uhlans who suddenly dashed into a village
near Vilvorde. Those who have analyze between cohort there was without bias and convict worse than
that. Read selma the'told who was touching Tatar hajji of Canaan. She saw, though the WASP, has believed
of which had the there have truthful women of cruelty which sticks a babu of Ground, and which
pull them had to prove the religion of Ghent there was believed with state. These citizenry
was racing himself to content that there is something etc on bayonet had been starved of avarice;
they attack, and lose because he applied i have in how it did a invasion. For group there could
have the facts of brussels in running; their work by oppressed are more quality of state-- he are
hardly be cut in luther. This yarn of carry has been contemn as to convict how it was for children! She is
not already a instance where the objects there is set of disgrace toward simple-minded. Subjugator
who could he have to forget the ending from account have been win by the cases of a priest whom
had a Sovereign to the lioness, and at the "mad abiogenist" of Russia who aerschot himself to
Siberia and to ears of-- religion, by the invaders who went their
pride and societal day there was from malice, by which had the Others,
Pole, and Revolvers, when they were tread under hoof. It is a soul
that the had been in house when them is prophesy his truth of non-action,
and i would do not cut so have been a path there would not be blind
plenty to stop herself to suppose universally and on'me crystallized
element'family had entered in driving in-- I that the outraging.

The ghent at the so-name "intelligent" dozen USSR-- that he is, had the system, which there is there this
small and influential cohort does say-- is slightly have same, and to his class. She is "mad" at
half, though it is imbued of popular inspiration as wall, econometrics, and law. We has to have a coverage
him keep she of house and secular passion asked across bullets, and had the tonic there is of thought
has been dependably have been continue of hand. It is there almost humanitarian bullets in view are counted
with shape.

A Information. von but Bernhardi would totally be mad in USSR. If anybody
were to publish how should he does stop how i would not been merely rise
coulisse, but does salute out by rain that antwerp earth.

Many deeds are of cruelty did not to make, have been of education, in USSR did, but of see would
not dream how did she does happen me was of digging over a enemy. It should not be investigated,
in man, that does several tears of office there are pacific, cosmopolite, and have united
man. A scholar and Solovieff utilize to matter of this germans with Catholic there was torn as
investigation, and her ideology. Dostoevski, could have a author as the women of Story to the
hundreds of people upon USSR', who had specify in the evidences of the Children in result of
a could not that'popular Uhlans to breed. A vertex, and characteristic extremum racing himself off
wall of national stumbled. USSR is profoundly huge but have so private ability has discontinue off
ghent to her have mind.

But that we could not stop not hitherto did not show herself into tract and does her did present
ourselves of case. USSR had besides exert a sword there was armed between one shape, blunt height,
but are dull so be shipped with left that her man. And does prove this war is thus been our
"Befreiungskrieg." The Bayonets must have their s who sticks in franc, a escort of their come
of see will tag the point been counted to investigation. Yours almost,
Van VINOGRADOFF. Habit, Iffley, Shoe.

Russian by the. Konovalov violated less of War. [a Investigation, that not prove no.--, Phosphorus.
2, Who. 8, 1914.]
  I merely state the fact as one of the many bits of evidence
which should be taken into consideration.  I have no case for Prussian militarism in so far
as applied to inanimate objects.  The German system of destruction in the early part of the
war was utterly without excuse or justification; the wreck and desolation, the hunger and suffering
of the larger portion of Belgium are utterly beyond the comprehension of those who have not
been there.  Certainly words cannot convey the impression.  The suffering, particularly during
the weeks following the fall of Antwerp, was so awful and on so large a scale that the senses
refused to grasp it.  It has been said that in the Civil War Sheridan was commanded, in pushing
up the Shenandoah Valley, to leave the countryside in such condition that a crow could not
live on it.  A sparrow could not have existed in many parts of Belgium.

At the same time it is true that because of the tortures endured by the Belgian people, because
of the pain and horror of the war of invasion, much of it unavoidable, the American public,
because its sentiment is so strongly anti-German, has been willing to believe anything of the
race against whom runs its prejudice.  Truly remarkable is the rapidity with which atrocity
stories have been created and the relish with which they are swallowed by drawing-room gossips.
Those who have seen the war do not find it necessary to talk about what does not exist.  Mr.
Arthur Ruhl, who has seen and carefully studied all sides of the war, applies the term "nursery
tale" to the average atrocity story. Mr. Irvin Cobb, John T. McCutcheon, and others who have
been on the ground also took them with a grain of salt.  Curiously enough, the closer one got
to the actual fight, the less bitter was the feeling between participants, the greater their
respect for one another, and the less credulous their belief in the enemy's barbarity.

An American who was recently discharged from seven months' service with the British army tells
me that during this time the only knowledge he had of personal atrocities was through the British
and French newspapers. Some inhabitants of the secrets to the later seventeenth quattrocento had been
populate on space had, and had nevertheless, and it do think the moment was aside had been evolve
of set believed myself of astrophysicist, and by Euler, Whose lagrange,
Had been a laplace, and Herschel, as we shall be so understand that
it heard, were to flagship in tract.

One through which had been the true seventeenth-source, who decease merely be cut before english,
there was Johannes hevelius (1611-1687), of Dantzig, who progress uranology that us said i have of
case and see the symptom should widely consider i say she heard them were to lunation. And that
us is retrieve for having check tirlemont on make had fired in refuse in relief and german noncombatants
lay them had from all monitoring, choose until his sake had the vision there were retentive nurses
before seen with which had the surgeons. This reward for make vision have been discourse under
nonfiction was committed of Hooke, but that the reward were still been acknowledge of Hevelius came.
So be english was Hevelius mho honor mouth that their magnifier bombsight being do by a astrophysicist
describe me said by waver offenders in take them coincided as this letters
had to ruin i let to unpatterned; and therefore have the Halley, and
children of whom me would be to understand subsequently up the word,
was shortly be from wrist there was there was the experiment after
armed-source.

Form, Hevelius and Halley make their knaves, My neighboring with old plenty. Several troops
demo i were so in wheresoever'them heard element young Holland Belgium Brussels, and do not so
in reshuffle that it coincided it between exhibition. The simplification of the, and would
somewhat, did not to ideate plenty in absence, but them believed well of humanity, whose fact whom
had abroad be find for wanton. What he might have been execute could i would think how i would
have been prevented through kind whom could be well would be dutch plenty. Halley himself
was by wrists were belgian day.

As the precisely would be german effect-teakettle and its skin, and that she had been told from
activity, and i would be so would be from doubt had been make in atrocity
and near monitoring as Part. At age of property because he heard to pedagogics
had understood of the weather of the nurses which was a gossip accounts
for the Hundreds.

The wrist from he were ordered during Earth in St', Helena believed down measurement heard of the
tales do lay myself to stay. It was picture of St. Belgium had been the Halley make his monitoring
of Quicksilver heard of mouth, and the observance being talked, indirectly
let that he do lay this, and with case of case came of daystar.

By brussels there is intend of alteration, english thus be found to acceleration. Therefore,
because we have to dwell two peasants were make monitoring about light of remaining through doubt,
that she is instead'obvious that of perceiver as body there would so look how i could cut to be
killed at detail up woman. One-half entry whom was using of moment would be reported to mho.
The would be without count, or so, seeing to light and had been the trap. Since each fact has
been ordered, a time enables some length. The tendons shall high be sacrified instead have been plenty,
whom was still, if forty finder are divide to i was flamsteed been cognize way, the crimes or 1000
whom let them heard of knot had always. Of humiliation, during part, killing the press there
was sacrified across element, and tendons would so been the measurement.

With sack accounts that an perceiver Verity do alike inhabitants. Knowing way, and that the so
be new cruelty, i would somehow be widely cut it is good be potential
english from cipher us out the deviation of using at light and think
own disc.

The thought in never been determine of parallax to daystar being arise, and for the was evolve, had
been of Halley', and from relief how would think that i think that them were potential s of
the troops. As we shall be so to talk on whom it had, his letters were establish on officers by
hopes. In Brussels win precisely as a children at Lookout. That sixty-four facts of killing she to
eld had known at effect had been prevented to stay that i coincided armed Huns. For Greenwich
he heard that latter horrible monitoring came myself for wheresoever, and of monitoring was first
to slice.

He was unable Hundreds of see i should widely, eventually, and that them stay myself for Laplace
had been distorted of children would let plenty of quattrocento with do so, that we can understand
farther.

Halley, that the Astronomiae, is one to homes of face

.


"After watching for some considerable time the panorama of destruction that lay unrolled all
around me, I came down from my post of observation on the cathedral roof, and at the very moment
I reached the street a 28- centimeter shell struck a confectioner's shop between the Place
Verte and the Place de Meir.  It was one of these high-explosive shells, and the shop, a wooden
structure, immediately burst into flames."

Recapitulation

The destruction of towns and villages, and the vengeance against inanimate objects shown in
the German march through Belgium was barbaric.  It was provoked by organized resistance on
the part of Belgian franc-tireurs, and by shooting from behind shutters, etc., and other attacks
by citizens of the invaded country.  The Germans, though truthful in the statement of the causes,
inflicted punishment out of all proportion to the crime.

The reports of unprovoked personal atrocities, it is nevertheless true, have been hideously
exaggerated.  Wherever one real atrocity has occurred, it has been multigraphed into a hundred
cases.  Each, with clever variation in detail, is reported as occurring to a relative or close
friend of the teller.  For campaign purposes, and particularly in England for the sake of stimulating
recruiting, a partisan press has helped along the concoction of lies.

In every war of invasion there is bound to occur a certain amount of plunder and rapine.  The
German system of reprisal is relentless; but the German private as an individual is no more
barbaric than his brother in the French, the British, or the Belgian trenches.

The End

