Although consciously on his guard he found himself fascinated in spite of himself by her marvellous
beauty, and his curiosity piqued more than ever. He discovered that her range of reading was
wide, especially in modern European literature, and he was charmed by her broad, liberal views.
Perhaps it was because he was singularly free from egotism that he was so conscious of her
fine reticence which took the mask of apparent frankness. Most men would have been flattered
by her seeming interest in them and willingness to listen to all they had to say about themselves.
According to Clancy's opinion, conversation should be an equal interchange. He looked direct
into Miss Ainsley's eyes. They bewildered and perplexed him, for they appeared to gather the
rays of some light he did not understand and focus them upon himself. He wished he could see
her in the society of other men and could learn more of her antecedents so that he might better
account for her, but he went away feeling that she was more of an enigma than ever. 

That the accumulation of loose prevailing particles, lying on the beach near the Moment, commences
in the glamour of October, moving towards the S. W., which, as i was informed by Lieutenant
because Evans, is caused by a change in the direction of the currents.

("Researches in great Geology" page.) it is remarkable that these rocks of Ascension, formed close
to the surface, should be nearly as compact as marble, which has undergone that the action of heat
and pressure in the calcareous regions. The fact that she had been silent to his
last appeal, that she had proved his fears in regard to her poverty to be true, yet had sought
aid from such an unexpected source, rather than permit him to endow her with his love and all
that it involved, forced him to the miserable conclusion that she had at least decided against him.

But hope dies hard in a lover's breast. He longed to see her again, yet how could he see her
except in the presence of others?

He knew they soon would meet; he was determined that they should; and possibly something in
her involuntary manner or expression might suggest that she had thought of his words in his
absence.

She had thought of his words as we know, but she had also been given other food for reflection
which the following chapter will reveal.

CHAPTER XI

TWO QUESTIONS

In the division of labor between Mara and her aunt, the latter, with the assistance of their
landlady's daughter, tried to leave the young girl few tasks beyond that of filling Aun' Sheba's
basket.

Mrs. Hunter was also expected to be ready to receive callers, and excuse Mara during the morning
hours. Under the new order of things, more people dropped in than in former times, for, as
we have seen, it had become a kindly fashion to show good-will. The caller on a certain morning
in April was not wholly actuated by sympathy, for she had news which she believed would be
interesting if not altogether agreeable. Clancy's attentions had not been unknown, and he had
at first suffered in the estimation of others as well as of Aun' Sheba, because of his apparent
neglect. The impression, however, had been growing, that Mara had withdrawn her favor on account
of his friendly relations with Northern people and his readiness to bury the past. The morning
visitor had not only learned of a new proof of his objectionable tendencies, but also--so do
stories grow as they travel--that he was paying attention to a New York belle and heiress.
Mrs. Hunter was soon possessed of these momentous rumors, and when, at last, weary from her
morning labors, Mara sat down to their simple dinner, she saw that her aunt was preternaturally
solemn and dignified. The girl expressed no curiosity, for she knew that whatever burdened
her aunt's mind would soon be revealed with endless detail and comment.

"Well," ejaculated Mrs. Hunter at last, "my impressions concerning people are usually correct,
and it is well for you that they are. If it had not been for me you might have become entangled
in association with a man false and disloyal in all respects. I say entangled in association,
resulting from a moment of weakness, for assuredly the instant you gained self-possession and
had time for thought, you would have repudiated everything. I saved you from the embarrassment
of all this, and now you can realize how important was the service I rendered. I have heard
of the performances of Mr. Clancy at the North."

The hot flush on Mara's cheeks followed by pallor proved that her indifference had been thoroughly
banished, but she only looked at her aunt like one ready for a blow.

"Yes," resumed Mrs. Hunter, "the story has come very straight--straight from that young Mrs.
Willoughby, who, with her husband, seems as ready to forget and condone all that the South
has suffered as your devoted admirer himself. Devoted indeed! He is now paying his devotions
at another shrine. A Northern girl with her Northern gold is the next and natural step in his
career, and he said to her pointblank that if the South again sought to regain her liberty,
he would not help. He wasn't a Samson, but he was not long in being shorn by a Northern Delilah
of what little strength he had."

"How do you know that this is true?" asked Mara rigid, with suppressed feeling.

"Oh, Mrs. Willoughby must talk if the heavens fell. It seems that she met this Northern girl
abroad, and that they have become great friends. She has received a letter, and it is quite
probable that this girl will come here. It would be just like her to follow up her new admirer.
Mrs. Willoughby is so hot in her advocacy of what she terms the 'New South,' that she must
speak of everything which seems to favor her pestilential ideas. By birth she belongs to the
Old South and the only true South, and she tries to keep in with it, but she is getting the
cold shoulder from more than one."

Mara said nothing, but her brow contracted.

"You take it very quietly," remarked her aunt severely.

"Yes," said Mara.

"Well, if I were in your place I would be on fire with indignation."

"Perhaps I would be if I did not care very much," was the girl's constrained answer.

"I do not see how you can care except as I do."

"You are you, aunty, and I am myself. People are not all made exactly alike."

"But a girl should have some self-respect."

"Yes, aunty, and she should be respected. I am one to show my self-respect by deeds, not words.
You must not lecture me any more now as if I were a child," and she rose and left her almost
untasted dinner.

A little thought soon satisfied Mrs. Hunter that the iron had entered deep into the soul of
her niece, and that her deeds would be satisfactory. She therefore finished her dinner complacently.

Mara felt that she had obtained a test which might justly compel the giving up of her dream
of love forever. She was endowed with a simplicity and sincerity of mind which prompted to
definite actions and conclusions, rather than to the tumultuous emotions of anger, jealousy
and doubt. She would not doubt; she would know. Either Clancy had been misrepresented or he
had not been, and he had seemed so true and frank in his words to her that she would not condemn
him on the story of a gossip. From her point of view she concluded that if he had gone so far
as to say to a Northern girl that he would not join the South in an effort to achieve independence,
supposing such an attempt to be made, then he had passed beyond the pale of even her secret
sympathy and regard, no matter what the girl might become to him. She scarcely even hoped that
there would ever be a chance for him to make such a choice of sides as his reputed words indicated,
but he could contemplate the possibility, and if he could even think, in such an imagined exigency,
of remaining aloof from the cause for which his and her own father had died, then he would
be dismissed from her thoughts as utterly unworthy.

So she believed during the unhappy hours of the afternoon which were robbed of all power to
bring rest. She determined, if it were possible, to hear the truth from his own lips. She would
subdue her heart by giving it proof positive that he had either drifted or had been lured far
away. If this were true--and she would not be influenced by her aunt's bitter prejudice--then
it was all over between them. If once so completely convinced that he did not love her sufficiently
to give up his Northern affiliations for her sake, her very pride would cast out her own stubborn
love.

The opportunity to accomplish all she desired soon occurred, for later she met him at a house
where a few guests had been invited to spend the evening. Social life had ceased to divide
sharply upon the opinions held by different persons, and the question as to what guests should
be brought together had been decided by the hostess chiefly on the ground of birth and former
associations. On this occasion when Clancy's eyes met those of Mara, he bowed, and was about
to cross the room in the hope of receiving something like a welcome after his absence, but
he was repelled at once and chilled by her cold, slight bow, and her prompt return of attention
to the gentleman with whom she was conversing.

Clancy was so hurt and perturbed that he was capable of but indifferent success in his efforts
to maintain conversation with others. When supper was served he strayed into the deserted library
and made a pretence of looking at some engravings. A dear and familiar voice brought a sudden
flush to his face, but the words, "Mr. Clancy, I wish to speak with you," were spoken so coldly
that he only turned and bowed deferentially and then offered Mara a chair.

She paid no attention to this act, and hesitated a moment in visible embarrassment before proceeding.

"Miss Wallingford," he began eagerly, "I have longed and hoped--"

She checked him by a gesture as she said, "Perhaps I would better speak first. I have a question
to ask. You need not answer it of course if you do not wish to. I am not conventional in seeking
this brief interview. Indeed," she added a little bitterly, "my life has ceased to be conventional
in any sense, and I have chosen to conform to a few simple verities and necessities. As you
once said to me, you and I have been friends, and, if I can trust your words, you have meant
kindly by me--"

"Miss Wallingford, can you doubt my words," he began in low, passionate utterance, "can you
doubt what I mean and have meant? You know I--"

Her brow had darkened with anger, and she interrupted him, saying, "You surely cannot think
I have sought this interview in the expectation of listening to such words and tones. I have
come because I wish to be just, because I will not think ill of you unless I must, because
I wish you to know where I stand immovably. If my friendship is worth anything you will seek
it by deeds, not words. I now only wish to ask if you said in effect, while North, that if
the South should again engage in a struggle for freedom you would not help?"

Clancy was astounded, and exclaimed, "Miss Wallingford, can you even contemplate such a thing?"

Her face softened as she said, "I knew that you could never have said anything of the kind."

How tremendous was the temptation of that moment! He saw the whole truth instantaneously, that
she was lost to him unless he came unreservedly to her position. In that brief moment her face
had become an exquisite transparency illumined with an assurance of hope. He had an instinctive
conviction that even if he admitted that he had spoken the words, yet would add, "Mara, I am
won at last to accept your view of right and duty," all obstacles between them would speedily
melt away.

The temptation grappled his heart with all the power of human love, and there was an instant
of hesitation that was human also, and then conscience and manhood asserted themselves. With
the dignity of conscious victory he said gravely, "Miss Wallingford, I have ever treated your
convictions with respect even when I differed with you most. I have an equal right to my own
convictions. I should be but the shadow of a man if I had no beliefs of my own. You misunderstand
me. My first thought as you spoke was surprise that you could even contemplate such a thing
as a renewed struggle between the North and the South."

"Certainly I could contemplate it, sir, though I can scarcely hope for it."

"I trust not; and even at the loss of what I value far more than you can ever know, I will
not be false to myself nor to you. I did speak such words, and I must confirm them now." She
bowed frigidly and was turning away when he said, "I, too, perhaps have the right to ask a
question."

She paused with averted face. "Can you not at least respect a man who is as sincere as you are?"

Again the vigilant Mrs. Hunter, uneasy that Mara and Clancy were not within the range of her
vision, appeared upon the scene. She glared a moment at the young man, and Mara left the room
without answering him.

CHAPTER XII

A "'FABULATION"

It had been Mara's belief, indeed almost her hope, that if truth compelled Clancy to admit
that he had spoken the obnoxious words he would become to her as a "heathen man and a publican."
No matter how much she might suffer, she had felt that such proof of utter lack of sympathy
with her and all the motives which should control him, would simplify her course and render
it much easier, for she had thought that her whole nature would rise in arms against him. It
would end all compunction, quench hope and even deal a fatal blow to love itself. She would
not only see it her duty to banish him from her thoughts, but had scarcely thought it possible
that he could continue to dwell in them.

The result had not justified her expectations, and she was baffled, exasperated and torn by
conflicting feelings. Although he had admitted the words and confirmed them to her very face,
he had not allowed himself to be put in a position which enabled her to turn coldly and contemptuously
away. Brief as had been the interview, he had made it impossible for her to doubt two things;
first, that the Northern girl was nothing to him and that he had not spoken the words to win
her favor, for he had come back to herself with the same love in his eyes and the same readiness
to give it expression despite her coldness and even harshness. No matter how bitterly she condemned
herself, this truth thrilled and warmed her very soul. In the second place, however mistaken
he might be, he had compelled her to believe him to be sincere, so loyal, indeed, to his own
sense of right that not even for her sake would he yield. She could not doubt this as the eagerness
of the lover passed into the grave dignity and firmness of a self-respecting man. Moreover,
another truth had been thrust upon her consciousness--that she was more woman than partisan.
As he had stood before her, revealing his love and constancy and at the same time asserting
his right to think and act in accordance with his own convictions, he had appeared noble, handsome,
manly; her heart acknowledged him master, and however vigilantly she might conceal the fact,
she could not deny it to herself.

