If courts could blush, those of Vienna and Dresden ought, to have their falsehoods so publicly,
and so undeniably exposed. The former will, I presume, next year, employ an hundred thousand
men, to answer the accusation; and if the Empress of the two Russias is pleased to argue in
the same cogent manner, their logic will be too strong for all the King of Prussia's rhetoric.
I well remember the treaty so often referred to in those pieces, between the two Empresses,
in 1746. The King was strongly pressed by the Empress Queen to accede to it. Wassenaer communicated
it to me for that purpose. I asked him if there were no secret articles; suspecting that there
were some, because the ostensible treaty was a mere harmless, defensive one. He assured me
that there were none. Upon which I told him, that as the King had already defensive alliances
with those two Empresses, I did not see of what use his accession to this treaty, if merely
a defensive one, could be, either to himself or the other contracting parties; but that, however,
if it was only desired as an indication of the King's good will, I would give him an act by
which his Majesty should accede to that treaty, as far, but no further, as at present he stood
engaged to the respective Empresses by the defensive alliances subsisting with each. This offer
by no means satisfied him; which was a plain proof of the secret articles now brought to light,
and into which the court of Vienna hoped to draw us. I told Wassenaer so, and after that I
heard no more of his invitation.

I am still bewildered in the changes at Court, of which I find that all the particulars are
not yet fixed. Who would have thought, a year ago, that Mr. Fox, the Chancellor, and the Duke
of Newcastle, should all three have quitted together? Nor can I yet account for it; explain
it to me if you can. I cannot see, neither, what the Duke of Devonshire and Fox, whom I looked
upon as intimately united, can have quarreled about, with relation to the Treasury; inform
me, if you know. I never doubted of the prudent versatility of your Vicar of Bray: But I am
surprised at O'Brien Windham's going out of the Treasury, where I should have thought that
the interest of his brother-in-law, George Grenville, would have kept him.

Having found myself rather worse, these two or three last days, I was obliged to take some
ipecacuanha last night; and, what you will think odd, for a vomit, I brought it all up again
in about an hour, to my great satisfaction and emolument, which is seldom the case in restitutions.

You did well to go to the Duke of Newcastle, who, I suppose, will have no more levees; however,
go from time to time, and leave your name at his door, for you have obligations to him. Adieu.

LETTER CCIV

BATH, December 14, 1756.

MY DEAR FRIEND: What can I say to you from this place, where EVERY DAY IS STILL BUT AS THE
FIRST, though by no means so agreeably passed, as Anthony describes his to have been? The same
nothings succeed one another every day with me, as, regularly and uniformly as the hours of
the day. You will think this tiresome, and so it is; but how can I help it? Cut off from society
by my deafness, and dispirited by my ill health, where could I be better? I remember distinctly that
i with the accent meant a square on lady is of minus one-- and stood for'hopeless'on the face
of it. That was right at these start, and a farther you heard that farther from brilliance you
found yourself. But i don't remember anything of the dunce-- only name-- I wouldn't dream of
being almost certain as such.

"" well, it's especially as bad academically to pass to it, "said Miss Hurd. That amused root was
not distinguished for her small graces, but her introduction of the
two decorous maids was the success.

The two girls laughed together. It was notoriously true that Kingsbury, who was keen so to the
point of reality in the application of mind to the practical matters as finance and real life,
had never hardly been anything but the subject, while Helen, who had been penetrated almost far into
the occult that these mathematics to follow, was perfectly incapable of making her middle accounts
balance within fifty per cent. it was the situation that always good them
is both.

They had been friends all their lives, the two, or there nearly all their lives that the residue
was so worth consideration. As an was now nearing the instant twenties, it must have been
merely a full generation since they had been known to one the. It was at each acute ages of six and
five that the Institute Ferdinand and little Miss Hurd had been never
conveyed to another social Back by Bay Kindergarten which was presented
to all Bostonians of a bostonian class as the" Child's cultural Miss
"of Miss Dorcas Isabel. It was so they met, under little watchful eye
and hope an eagle espionage of miss Dorcas." almost when you know that
i discreetly could refer beginner's algebra. "


I hope you frequent all the courts: a man should make his face familiar there. Long habit produces
favor insensibly; and acquaintance often does more than friendship, in that climate where 'les
beaux sentimens' are not the natural growth.

Adieu! I am going to the ball, to save my eyes from reading, and my mind from thinking.

LETTERS TO HIS SON

LETTER CCV

BATH, January 12, 1757

MY DEAR FRIEND: I waited quietly, to see when either your leisure, or your inclinations, would
al low you to honor me with a letter; and at last I received one this morning, very near a
fortnight after you went from hence. You will say, that you had no news to write me; and that
probably may be true; but, without news, one has always something to say to those with whom
one desires to have anything to do.

Your observation is very just with regard to the King of Prussia, whom the most august House
of Austria would most unquestionably have poisoned a century or two ago. But now that 'terras
Astraea reliquit', kings and princes die of natural deaths; even war is pusillanimously carried
on in this degenerate age; quarter is given; towns are taken, and the people spared: even in
a storm, a woman can hardly hope for the benefit of a rape. Whereas (such was the humanity
of former days) prisoners were killed by thousands in cold blood, and the generous victors
spared neither man, woman, nor child. Heroic actions of this kind were performed at the taking
of Magdebourg. The King of Prussia is certainly now in a situation that must soon decide his
fate, and make him Caesar or nothing. Notwithstanding the march of the Russians, his great
danger, in my mind, lies westward. I have no great notions of Apraxin's abilities, and I believe
many a Prussian colonel would out-general him. But Brown, Piccolomini, Lucchese, and many other
veteran officers in the Austrian troops, are respectable enemies.

Mr. Pitt seems to me to have almost as many enemies to encounter as his Prussian Majesty. The
late Ministry, and the Duke's party, will, I presume, unite against him and his Tory friends;
and then quarrel among themselves again. His best, if not his only chance of supporting himself
would be, if he had credit enough in the city, to hinder the advancing of the money to any
administration but his own; and I have met with some people here who think that he has.

I have put off my journey from hence for a week, but no longer. I find I still gain some strength
and some flesh here, and therefore I will not cut while the run is for me.

By a letter which I received this morning from Lady Allen, I observe that you are extremely
well with her; and it is well for you to be so, for she is an excellent and warm puff.

'A propos' (an expression which is commonly used to introduce whatever is unrelative to it)
you should apply to some of Lord Holderness's people, for the perusal of Mr. Cope's letters.
It would not be refused you; and the sooner you have them the better. I do not mean them as
models for your manner of writing, but as outlines of the matter you are to write upon.

If you have not read Hume's "Essays" read them; they are four very small volumes; I have just
finished, and am extremely pleased with them. He thinks impartially, deep, often new; and,
in my mind, commonly just. Adieu.

LETTER CCVI

BLACKHEATH, September 17, 1757

MY DEAR FRIEND: Lord Holderness has been so kind as to communicate to me all the letters which
he has received from you hitherto, dated the 15th, 19th, 23d, and 26th August; and also a draught
of that which he wrote to you the 9th instant. I am very well pleased with all your letters;
and, what is better, I can tell you that the King is so too; and he said, but three days ago,
to Monsieur Munchausen, HE (meaning you) SETS OUT VERY WELL, AND I LIKE HIS LETTERS; PROVIDED
THAT, LIKE MOST OF MY ENGLISH MINISTERS ABROAD, HE DOES NOT GROW IDLE HEREAFTER. So that here
is both praise to flatter, and a hint to warn you. What Lord Holderness recommends to you,
being by the King's order, intimates also a degree of approbation; for the BLACKER INK, AND
THE LARGER CHARACTER, show, that his Majesty, whose eyes are grown weaker, intends to read
all your letters himself. Therefore, pray do not neglect to get the blackest ink you can; and
to make your secretary enlarge his hand, though 'd'ailleurs' it is a very good one.

Had I been to wish an advantageous situation for you, and a good debut in it, I could not have
wished you either better than both have hitherto proved. The rest will depend entirely upon
yourself; and I own I begin to have much better hopes than I had; for I know, by my own experience,
that the more one works, the more willing one is to work. We are all, more or less, 'des animaux
d'habitude'. I remember very well, that when I was in business, I wrote four or five hours
together every day, more willingly than I should now half an hour; and this is most certain,
that when a man has applied himself to business half the day, the other half, goes off the
more cheerfully and agreeably. This I found so sensibly, when I was at The Hague, that I never
tasted company so well nor was so good company myself, as at the suppers of my post days. I
take Hamburg now to be 'le centre du refuge Allemand'. If you have any Hanover 'refugies' among
them, pray take care to be particularly attentive to them. How do you like your house? Is it
a convenient one? Have the 'Casserolles' been employed in it yet? You will find 'les petits
soupers fins' less expensive, and turn to better account, than large dinners for great companies.

I hope you have written to the Duke of Newcastle; I take it for granted that you have to all
your brother ministers of the northern department. For God's sake be diligent, alert, active,
and indefatigable in your business. You want nothing but labor and industry to be, one day,
whatever you please, in your own way.

We think and talk of nothing here but Brest, which is universally supposed to be the object
of our great expedition. A great and important object it is. I suppose the affair must be brusque,
or it will not do. If we succeed, it will make France put some water to its wine. As for my
own private opinion, I own I rather wish than hope success. However, should our expedition
fail, 'Magnis tamen excidit ausis', and that will be better than our late languid manner of
making war.

To mention a person to you whom I am very indifferent about, I mean myself, I vegetate still
just as I did when we parted; but I think I begin to be sensible of the autumn of the year;
as well as of the autumn of my own life. I feel an internal awkwardness, which, in about three
weeks, I shall carry with me to the Bath, where I hope to get rid of it, as I did last year.
The best cordial I could take, would be to hear, from time to time, of your industry and diligence;
for in that case I should consequently hear of your success. Remember your own motto, 'Nullum
numen abest si sit prudentia'. Nothing is truer. Yours.

LETTER CCVII

BLACKHEATH, September 23, 1757

MY DEAR FRIEND: I received but the day before yesterday your letter of the 3d, from the headquarters
at Selsingen; and, by the way, it is but the second that I have received from you since your
arrival at Hamburg. Whatever was the cause of your going to the army, I approve of the effect;
for I would have you, as much as possible, see everything that is to be seen. That is the true
useful knowledge, which informs and improves us when we are young, and amuses us and others
when we are old; 'Olim haec meminisse juvabit'. I could wish that you would (but I know you
will not) enter in a book, a short note only, of whatever you see or hear, that is very remarkable:
I do not mean a German ALBUM stuffed with people's names, and Latin sentences; but I mean such
a book, as, if you do not keep now, thirty years hence you would give a great deal of money
to have kept. 'A propos de bottes', for I am told he always wears his; was his Royal Highness
very gracious to you, or not? I have my doubts about it. The neutrality which he has concluded
with Marechal de Richelieu, will prevent that bloody battle which you expected; but what the
King of Prussia will say to it is another point. He was our only ally; at present, probably
we have not one in the world. If the King of Prussia can get at Monsieur de Soubize's, and
the Imperial army, before other troops have joined them, I think he will beat them but what
then? He has three hundred thousand men to encounter afterward. He must submit; but he may
say with truth, 'Si Pergama dextra defendi potuissent'. The late action between the Prussians
and Russians has only thinned the human species, without giving either party a victory; which
is plain by each party's claiming it. Upon my word, our species will pay very dear for the
quarrels and ambition of a few, and those by no means the most valuable part of it. If the
many were wiser than they are, the few must be quieter, and would perhaps be juster and better
than they are.

Hamburg, I find, swarms with Grafs, Graffins, Fursts, and Furstins, Hocheits, and Durchlaugticheits.
I am glad of it, for you must necessarily be in the midst of them; and I am still more glad,
that, being in the midst of them, you must necessarily be under some constraint of ceremony;
a thing which you do not love, but which is, however, very useful.

I desired you in my last, and I repeat it again in this, to give me an account of your private
and domestic life.

How do you pass your evenings? Have they, at Hamburg, what are called at Paris 'des Maisons',
where one goes without ceremony, sups or not, as one pleases? Are you adopted in any society?
Have you any rational brother ministers, and which? What sort of things are your operas? In
the tender, I doubt they do not excel; for 'mein lieber schatz', and the other tendernesses
of the Teutonic language, would, in my mind, sound but indifferently, set to soft music; for
the bravura parts, I have a great opinion of them; and 'das, der donner dich erschlage', must
no doubt, make a tremendously fine piece of 'recitativo', when uttered by an angry hero, to
the rumble of a whole orchestra, including drums, trumpets, and French horns. Tell me your
whole allotment of the day, in which I hope four hours, at least, are sacred to writing; the
others cannot be better employed than in LIBERAL pleasures. In short, give me a full account
of yourself, in your un-ministerial character, your incognito, without your 'fiocchi'. I love
to see those, in whom I interest myself, in their undress, rather than in gala; I know them
better so. I recommend to you, 'etiam atque etiam', method and order in everything you undertake.
Do you observe it in your accounts? If you do not, you will be a beggar, though you were to
receive the appointments of a Spanish Ambassador extraordinary, which are a thousand pistoles
a month; and in your ministerial business, if you have no regular and stated hours for such
and such parts of it, you will be in the hurry and confusion of the Duke of N-----, doing everything
by halves, and nothing well, nor soon. I suppose you 'have been feasted through the Corps diplomatique
at Hamburg, excepting Monsieur Champeaux; with whom, however, I hope you live 'poliment et
galamment', at all third places.

Lord Loudon is much blamed here for his 'retraite des dix milles', for it is said that he had
above that number, and might consequently have acted offensively, instead of retreating; especially
as his retreat was contrary to the unanimous opinion (as it is now said) of the council of
war. In our Ministry, I suppose, things go pretty quietly, for the D. of N. has not plagued
me these two months. When his Royal Highness comes over, which I take it for granted he will
do very soon, the great push will, I presume, be made at his Grace and Mr. Pitt; but without
effect if they agree, as it is visibly their interest to do; and, in that case, their parliamentary
strength will support them against all attacks. You may remember, I said at first, that the
popularity would soon be on the side of those who opposed the popular Militia Bill; and now
it appears so with a vengeance, in almost every county in England, by the tumults and insurrections
of the people, who swear that they will not be enlisted. That silly scheme must therefore be
dropped, as quietly as may be. Now that I have told you all that I know, and almost all that
I think, I wish you a good supper and a good-night.

LETTER CCVIII

BLACKHEATH, September 30, 1757

MY DEAR FRIEND: I have so little to do, that I am surprised how I can find time to write to
you so often. Do not stare at the seeming paradox; for it is an undoubted truth, that the less
one has to do, the less time one finds to do it in. One yawns, one procrastinates, one can
do it when one will, and therefore one seldom does it at all; whereas those who have a great
deal of business, must (to use a vulgar expression) buckle to it; and then they always find
time enough to do it in. I hope your own experience has by this time convinced you of this truth.

I received your last of the 8th. It is now quite over with a very great man, who will still
be a very great man, though a very unfortunate one. He has qualities of the mind that put him
above the reach of these misfortunes; and if reduced, as perhaps he may, to the 'marche' of
Brandenburg, he will always find in himself the comfort, and with all the world the credit,
of a philosopher, a legislator, a patron, and a professor of arts and sciences. He will only
lose the fame of a conqueror; a cruel fame, that arises from the destruction of the human species.
Could it be any satisfaction to him to know, I could tell him, that he is at this time the
most popular man in this kingdom; the whole nation being enraged at that neutrality which hastens
and completes his ruin. Between you and me, the King was not less enraged at it himself, when
he saw the terms of it; and it affected his health more than all that had happened before.
Indeed it seems to me a voluntary concession of the very worst that could have happened in
the worst event. We now begin to think that our great and secret expedition is intended for
Martinico and St. Domingo; if that be true, and we succeed in the attempt, we shall recover,
and the French lose, one of the most valuable branches of commerce--I mean sugar. The French
now supply all the foreign markets in Europe with that commodity; we only supply ourselves
with it. This would make us some amends for our ill luck, or ill conduct in North America;
where Lord Loudon, with twelve thousand men, thought himself no match for the French with but
seven; and Admiral Holborne, with seventeen ships of the line, declined attacking the French,
because they had eighteen, and a greater weight of METAL, according to the new sea-phrase,
which was unknown to Blake. I hear that letters have been sent to both with very severe reprimands.
I am told, and I believe it is true, that we are negotiating with the Corsican, I will not
say rebels, but asserters of their natural rights; to receive them, and whatever form of government
they think fit to establish, under our protection, upon condition of their delivering up to
us Port Ajaccio; which may be made so strong and so good a one, as to be a full equivalent
for the loss of Port Mahon. This is, in my mind, a very good scheme; for though the Corsicans
are a parcel of cruel and perfidious rascals, they will in this case be tied down to us by
their own interest and their own danger; a solid security with knaves, though none with fools.
His Royal Highness the Duke is hourly expected here: his arrival will make some bustle; for
I believe it is certain that he is resolved to make a push at the Duke of N., Pitt and Co.;
but it will be ineffectual, if they continue to agree, as, to my CERTAIN KNOWLEDGE, they do
at present. This parliament is theirs, 'caetera quis nescit'?

Now that I have told you all that I know or have heard, of public matters, let us talk of private
ones that more nearly and immediately concern us. Admit me to your fire-side, in your little
room; and as you would converse with me there, write to me for the future from thence. Are
you completely 'nippe' yet? Have you formed what the world calls connections? that is, a certain
number of acquaintances whom, from accident or choice, you frequent more than others: Have
you either fine or well-bred women there? 'Y a-t-il quelque bon ton'? All fat and fair, I presume;
too proud and too cold to make advances, but, at the same time, too well-bred and too warm
to reject them, when made by 'un honnete homme avec des manieres'.

Mr.------is to be married, in about a month, to Miss------. I am very glad of it; for, as he
will never be a man of the world, but will always lead a domestic and retired life, she seems
to have been made on purpose for him. Her natural turn is as grave and domestic as his; and
she seems to have been kept by her aunts 'a la grace', instead of being raised in a hot bed,
as most young ladies are of late. If, three weeks hence, you write him a short compliment of
congratulation upon the occasion, he, his mother, and 'tutti quanti', would be extremely pleased
with it. Those attentions are always kindly taken, and cost one nothing but pen, ink, and paper.
I consider them as draughts upon good-breeding, where the exchange is always greatly in favor
of the drawer. 'A propos' of exchange; I hope you have, with the help of your secretary, made
yourself correctly master of all that sort of knowledge--Course of Exchange, 'Agie, Banco,
Reiche-Thalers', down to 'Marien Groschen'. It is very little trouble to learn it; it is often
of great use to know it. Good-night, and God bless you!

LETTER CCIX

BLACKHEATH, October 10, 1757

MY DEAR FRIEND: It is not without some difficulty that I snatch this moment of leisure from
my extreme idleness, to inform you of the present lamentable and astonishing state of affairs
here, which you would know but imperfectly from the public papers, and but partially from your
private correspondents. 'Or sus' then--Our in vincible Armada, which cost at least half a million,
sailed, as you know, some weeks ago; the object kept an inviolable secret: conjectures various,
and expectations great. Brest was perhaps to be taken; but Martinico and St. Domingo, at least.
When lo! the important island of Aix was taken without the least resistance, seven hundred
men made prisoners, and some pieces of cannon carried off. From thence we sailed toward Rochfort,
which it seems was our main object; and consequently one should have supposed that we had pilots
on board who knew all the soundings and landing places there and thereabouts: but no; for General
M-----t asked the Admiral if he could land him and the troops near Rochfort? The Admiral said,
with great ease. To which the General replied, but can you take us on board again? To which
the Admiral answered, that, like all naval operations, will depend upon the wind. If so, said
the General, I'll e'en go home again. A Council of War was immediately called, where it was
unanimously resolved, that it was ADVISABLE to return; accordingly they are returned. As the
expectations of the whole nation had been raised to the highest pitch, the universal disappointment
and indignation have arisen in proportion; and I question whether the ferment of men's minds
was ever greater. Suspicions, you may be sure, are various and endless, but the most prevailing
one is, that the tail of the Hanover neutrality, like that of a comet, extended itself to Rochfort.
What encourages this suspicion is, that a French man of war went unmolested through our whole
fleet, as it lay near Rochfort. Haddock's whole story is revived; Michel's representations
are combined with other circumstances; and the whole together makes up a mass of discontent,
resentment, and even fury, greater than perhaps was ever known in this country before. These
are the facts, draw your own conclusions from them; for my part, I am lost in astonishment
and conjectures, and do not know where to fix. My experience has shown me, that many things
which seem extremely probable are not true: and many which seem highly improbable are true;
so that I will conclude this article, as Josephus does almost every article of his history,
with saying, BUT OF THIS EVERY MAN WILL BELIEVE AS HE THINKS PROPER. What a disgraceful year
will this be in the annals of this country! May its good genius, if ever it appears again,
tear out those sheets, thus stained and blotted by our ignominy!

Our domestic affairs are, as far as I know anything of them, in the same situation as when
I wrote to you last; but they will begin to be in motion upon the approach of the session,
and upon the return of the Duke, whose arrival is most impatiently expected by the mob of London;
though not to strew flowers in his way.

I leave this place next Saturday, and London the Saturday following, to be the next day at
Bath. Adieu.

LETTER CCX

LONDON, October 17, 1757.

MY DEAR FRIEND: Your last, of the 30th past, was a very good letter; and I will believe half
of what you assure me, that you returned to the Landgrave's civilities. I cannot possibly go
farther than half, knowing that you are not lavish of your words, especially in that species
of eloquence called the adulatory. Do not use too much discretion in profiting of the Landgrave's
naturalization of you; but go pretty often and feed with him. Choose the company of your superiors,
whenever you can have it; that is the right and true pride. The mistaken and silly pride is,
to PRIMER among inferiors.

Hear, O Israel! and wonder. On Sunday morning last, the Duke gave up his commission of Captain
General and his regiment of guards. You will ask me why? I cannot tell you, but I will tell
you the causes assigned; which, perhaps, are none of them the true ones. It is said that the
King reproached him with having exceeded his powers in making the Hanover Convention, which
his R. H. absolutely denied, and threw up thereupon. This is certain, that he appeared at the
drawing-room at Kensington, last Sunday, after having quitted, and went straight to Windsor;
where, his people say, that he intends to reside quietly, and amuse himself as a private man.
But I conjecture that matters will soon be made up again, and that he will resume his employments.
You will easily imagine the speculations this event has occasioned in the public; I shall neither
trouble you nor myself with relating them; nor would this sheet of paper, or even a quire more,
contain them. Some refine enough to suspect that it is a concerted quarrel, to justify SOMEBODY
TO SOMEBODY, with regard to the Convention; but I do not believe it.

His R. H.'s people load the Hanover Ministers, and more particularly our friend Munchausen
here, with the whole blame; but with what degree of truth I know not. This only is certain,
that the whole negotiation of that affair was broached and carried on by the Hanover Ministers
and Monsieur Stemberg at Vienna, absolutely unknown to the English Ministers, till it was executed.
This affair combined (for people will combine it) with the astonishing return of our great
armament, not only 're infecta', but even 'intentata', makes such a jumble of reflections,
conjectures, and refinements, that one is weary of hearing them. Our Tacituses and Machiavels
go deep, suspect the worst, and, perhaps, as they often do, overshoot the mark. For my own
part, I fairly confess that I am bewildered, and have not certain 'postulata' enough, not only
to found any opinion, but even to form conjectures upon: and this is the language which I think
you should hold to all who speak to you, as to be sure all will, upon that subject. Plead,
as you truly may, your own ignorance; and say, that it is impossible to judge of those nice
points, at such a distance, and without knowing all circumstances, which you cannot be supposed
to do. And as to the Duke's resignation; you should, in my opinion, say, that perhaps there
might be a little too much vivacity in the case, but that, upon the whole, you make no doubt
of the thing's being soon set right again; as, in truth, I dare say it will. Upon these delicate
occasions, you must practice the ministerial shrugs and 'persiflage'; for silent gesticulations,
which you would be most inclined to, would not be sufficient: something must be said, but that
something, when analyzed, must amount to nothing. As for instance, 'Il est vrai qu'on s'y perd,
mais que voulez-vous que je vous dise?--il y a bien du pour et du contre; un petit Resident
ne voit gueres le fond du sac.--Il faut attendre.--Those sort of expletives are of infinite
use; and nine people in ten think they mean something. But to the Landgrave of Hesse I think
you would do well to say, in seeming confidence, that you have good reason to believe that
the principal objection of his Majesty to the convention was that his Highness's interests,
and the affair of his troops, were not sufficiently considered in it. To the Prussian Minister
assert boldly that you know 'de science certaine', that the principal object of his Majesty's
and his British Ministry's intention is not only to perform all their present engagements with
his Master, but to take new and stronger ones for his support; for this is true--AT LEAST AT
PRESENT.

You did very well in inviting Comte Bothmar to dine with you. You see how minutely I am informed
of your proceedings, though not from yourself. Adieu.

I go to Bath next Saturday; but direct your letters, as usual, to London.

LETTER CCXI

BATH, October 26, 1757.

MY DEAR FRIEND: I arrived here safe, but far from sound, last Sunday. I have consequently drunk
these waters but three days, and yet I find myself something better for them. The night before
I left London. I was for some hours at Newcastle House, where the letters, which came that
morning, lay upon the table: and his Grace singled out yours with great approbation, and, at
the same time, assured me of his Majesty's approbation, too. To these two approbations I truly
add my own, which, 'sans vanite', may perhaps be near as good as the other two. In that letter
you venture 'vos petits raisonnemens' very properly, and then as properly make an excuse for
doing so. Go on so, with diligence, and you will be, what I began to despair of your ever being,
SOMEBODY. I am persuaded, if you would own the truth, that you feel yourself now much better
satisfied with yourself than you were while you did nothing.

Application to business, attended with approbation and success, flatters and animates the mind:
which, in idleness and inaction, stagnates and putrefies. I could wish that every rational
man would, every night when he goes to bed, ask himself this question, What have I done to-day?
Have I done anything that can be of use to myself or others? Have I employed my time, or have
I squandered it? Have I lived out the day, or have I dozed it away in sloth and laziness? A
thinking being must be pleased or confounded, according as he can answer himself these questions.
I observe that you are in the secret of what is intended, and what Munchausen is gone to Stade
to prepare; a bold and dangerous experiment in my mind, and which may probably end in a second
volume to the "History of the Palatinate," in the last century. His Serene Highness of Brunswick
has, in my mind, played a prudent and saving game; and I am apt to believe that the other Serene
Highness, at Hamburg, is more likely to follow his example than to embark in the great scheme.

I see no signs of the Duke's resuming his employments; but on the contrary I am assured that
his Majesty is coolly determined to do as well as he can without him. The Duke of Devonshire
and Fox have worked hard to make up matters in the closet, but to no purpose. People's self-love
is very apt to make them think themselves more necessary than they are: and I shrewdly suspect,
that his Royal Highness has been the dupe of that sentiment, and was taken at his word when
he least suspected it; like my predecessor, Lord Harrington, who when he went into the closet
to resign the seals, had them not about him: so sure he thought himself of being pressed to
keep them.

The whole talk of London, of this place, and of every place in the whole kingdom, is of our
great, expensive, and yet fruitless expedition; I have seen an officer who was there, a very
sensible and observing man: who told me that had we attempted Rochfort, the day after we took
the island of Aix, our success had been infallible; but that, after we had sauntered (God knows
why) eight or ten days in the island, he thinks the attempt would have been impracticable,
because the French had in that time got together all the troops in that neighborhood, to a
very considerable number. In short, there must have been some secret in that whole affair that
has not yet transpired; and I cannot help suspecting that it came from Stade. WE had not been
successful there; and perhaps WE were not desirous that an expedition, in which WE had neither
been concerned nor consulted, should prove so; M----t was OUR creature, and a word to the wise
will sometimes go a great way. M----t is to have a public trial, from which the public expects
great discoveries--Not I.

Do you visit Soltikow, the Russian Minister, whose house, I am told, is the great scene of
pleasures at Hamburg? His mistress, I take for granted, is by this time dead, and he wears
some other body's shackles. Her death comes with regard to the King of Prussia, 'comme la moutarde
apres diner'. I am curious to see what tyrant will succeed her, not by divine, but by military
right; for, barbarous as they are now, and still more barbarous as they have been formerly,
they have had very little regard to the more barbarous notion of divine, indefeasible, hereditary
right.

The Praetorian bands, that is, the guards, I presume, have been engaged in the interests of
the Imperial Prince; but still I think that little John of Archangel will be heard upon this
occasion, unless prevented by a quieting draught of hemlock or nightshade; for I suppose they
are not arrived to the politer and genteeler poisons of Acqua Tufana,--[Acqua Tufana, a Neapolitan
slow poison, resembling clear water, and invented by a woman at Naples, of the name of Tufana.]--sugar-plums,
etc.

Lord Halifax has accepted his old employment, with the honorary addition of the Cabinet Council.
And so we heartily wish you a goodnight.

LETTER CCXII

BATH, November 4, 1757

MY DEAR FRIEND: The Sons of Britain, like those of Noah, must cover their parent's shame as
well as they can; for to retrieve its honor is now too late. One would really think that our
ministers and generals were all as drunk as the Patriarch was. However, in your situation,
you must not be Cham; but spread your cloak over our disgrace, as far as it will go. M----t
calls aloud for a public trial; and in that, and that only, the public agree with him. There
will certainly be one, but of what kind is not yet fixed. Some are for a parliamentary inquiry,
others for a martial one; neither will, in my opinion, discover the true secret; for a secret
there most unquestionably is. Why we stayed six whole days in the island of Aix, mortal cannot
imagine; which time the French employed, as it was obvious they would, in assembling their
troops in the neighborhood of Rochfort, and making our attempt then really impracticable. The
day after we had taken the island of Aix, your friend, Colonel Wolf, publicly offered to do
the business with five hundred men and three ships only. In all these complicated political
machines there are so many wheels, that it is always difficult, and sometimes im possible,
to guess which of them gives direction to the whole. Mr. Pitt is convinced that the principal
wheels, or, if you will, the spoke in his wheel, came from Stade. This is certain, at least
that M----t was the man of confidence with that person. Whatever be the truth of the case,
there is, to be sure, hitherto an 'hiatus valde deflendus'.

The meeting of the parliament will certainly be very numerous, were it only from curiosity:
but the majority on the side of the Court will, I dare say, be a great one. The people of the
late Captain-general, however inclined to oppose, will be obliged to concur. Their commissions,
which they have no desire to lose, will make them tractable; for those gentlemen, though all
men of honor, are of Sosia's mind, 'que le vrai Amphitrion est celui ou l'on dine'. The Tories
and the city have engaged to support Pitt; the Whigs, the Duke of Newcastle; the independent
and the impartial, as you well know, are not worth mentioning. It is said that the Duke intends
to bring the affair of his Convention into parliament, for his own justification; I can hardly
believe it; as I cannot conceive that transactions so merely electoral can be proper objects
of inquiry or deliberation for a British parliament; and, therefore, should such a motion be
made, I presume it will be immediately quashed. By the commission lately given to Sir John
Ligonier, of General and Commander-in-chief of all his Majesty's forces in Great Britain, the
door seems to be not only shut, but bolted, against his Royal Highness's return; and I have
good reason to be convinced that that breach is irreparable. The reports of changes in the
Ministry, I am pretty sure, are idle and groundless. The Duke of Newcastle and Mr. Pitt really
agree very well; not, I presume, from any sentimental tenderness for each other, but from a
sense that it is their mutual interest: and, as the late Captain-general's party is now out
of the question, I do not see what should produce the least change.

The visit made lately to Berlin was, I dare say, neither a friendly nor an inoffensive one.
The Austrians always leave behind them pretty lasting monuments of their visits, or rather
visitations: not so much, I believe, from their thirst of glory, as from their hunger of prey.

This winter, I take for granted, must produce a piece of some kind or another; a bad one for
us, no doubt, and yet perhaps better than we should get the year after. I suppose the King
of Prussia is negotiating with France, and endeavoring by those means to get out of the scrape
with the loss only of Silesia, and perhaps Halberstadt, by way of indemnification to Saxony;
and, considering all circumstances, he would be well off upon those terms. But then how is
Sweden to be satisfied? Will the Russians restore Memel? Will France have been at all this
expense 'gratis'? Must there be no acquisition for them in Flanders? I dare say they have stipulated
something of that sort for themselves, by the additional and secret treaty, which I know they
made, last May, with the Queen of Hungary. Must we give up whatever the French please to desire
in America, besides the cession of Minorca in perpetuity? I fear we must, or else raise twelve
millions more next year, to as little purpose as we did this, and have consequently a worse
peace afterward. I turn my eyes away, as much as I can, from this miserable prospect; but,
as a citizen and member of society, it recurs to my imagination, notwithstanding all my endeavors
to banish it from my thoughts. I can do myself nor my country no good; but I feel the wretched
situation of both; the state of the latter makes me better bear that of the former; and, when
I am called away from my station here, I shall think it rather (as Cicero says of Crassus)
'mors donata quam vita erepta'.

I have often desired, but in vain, the favor of being admitted into your private apartment
at, Hamburg, and of being informed of your private life there. Your mornings, I hope and believe,
are employed in business; but give me an account of the remainder of the day, which I suppose
is, and ought to be, appropriated to amusements and pleasures. In what houses are you domestic?
Who are so in yours? In short, let me in, and do not be denied to me.

Here I am, as usual, seeing few people, and hearing fewer; drinking the waters regularly to
a minute, and am something the better for them. I read a great deal, and vary occasionally
my dead company. I converse with grave folios in the morning, while my head is clearest and
my attention strongest: I take up less severe quartos after dinner; and at night I choose the
mixed company and amusing chit-chat of octavos and duodecimos. 'Ye tire parti de tout ce gue
je puis'; that is my philosophy; and I mitigate, as much as I can, my physical ills by diverting
my attention to other objects.

Here is a report that Admiral Holborne's fleet is destroyed, in a manner, by a storm: I hope
it is not true, in the full extent of the report; but I believe it has suffered. This would
fill up the measure of our misfortunes. Adieu.

LETTER CCXIII

BATH, November 20, 1757

MY DEAR FRIEND: I write to you now, because I love to write to you; and hope that my letters
are welcome to you; for otherwise I have very little to inform you of. The King of Prussia's
late victory you are better informed, of than we are here. It has given infinite joy to the
unthinking public, who are not aware that it comes too late in the year and too late in the
war, to be attended with any very great consequences. There are six or seven thousand of the
human species less than there were a month ago, and that seems to me to be all. However, I
am glad of it, upon account of the pleasure and the glory which it gives the King of Prussia,
to whom I wish well as a man, more than as a king. And surely he is so great a man, that had
he lived seventeen or eighteen hundred years ago, and his life been transmitted to us in a
language that we could not very well understand--I mean either Greek or Latin--we should have
talked of him as we do now of your Alexanders, your Caesars, and others; with whom, I believe,
we have but a very slight acquaintance. 'Au reste', I do not see that his affairs are much
mended by this victory. The same combination of the great Powers of Europe against him still
subsists, and must at last prevail. I believe the French army will melt away, as is usual,
in Germany; but this army is extremely diminished by battles, fatigues, and desertion: and
he will find great difficulties in recruiting it from his own already exhausted dominions.
He must therefore, and to be sure will, negotiate privately with the French, and get better
terms that way than he could any other.

The report of the three general officers, the Duke of Marlborough, Lord George Sackville, and
General Waldegrave, was laid before the King last Saturday, after their having sat four days
upon M----t's affair: nobody yet knows what it is; but it is generally believed that M----t
will be brought to a court-martial. That you may not mistake this matter, as MOST people here
do, I must explain to you, that this examination before the three above-mentioned general officers,
was by no means a trial; but only a previous inquiry into his conduct, to see whether there
was, or was not, cause to bring him to a regular trial before a court-martial. The case is
exactly parallel to that of a grand jury; who, upon a previous and general examination, find,
or do not find, a bill to bring the matter before the petty jury; where the fact is finally
tried. For my own part, my opinion is fixed upon that affair: I am convinced that the expedition
was to be defeated; and nothing that can appear before a court-martial can make me alter that
opinion. I have been too long acquainted with human nature to have great regard for human testimony;
and a very great degree of probability, supported by various concurrent circumstances, conspiring
in one point, will have much greater weight with me, than human testimony upon oath, or even
upon honor; both which I have frequently seen considerably warped by private views.

The parliament, which now stands prorogued to the first of next month, it is thought will be
put off for some time longer, till we know in what light to lay before it the state of our
alliance with Prussia, since the conclusion of the Hanover neutrality; which, if it did not
quite break it, made at least a great flaw in it.

The birth-day was neither fine nor crowded; and no wonder, since the King was that day seventy-five.
The old Court and the young one are much better together since the Duke's retirement; and the
King has presented the Prince of Wales with a service of plate.

I am still UNWELL, though I drink these waters very regularly. I will stay here at least six
weeks longer; where I am much quieter than I should be allowed to be in town. When things are
in such a miserable situation as they are at present, I desire neither to be concerned nor
consulted, still less quoted. Adieu!

LETTER CCXIV

BATH, November 26, 1757

MY DEAR FRIEND: I received by the last mail your short account of the King of Prussia's victory;
which victory, contrary to custom, turns out more complete than it was at first reported to
be. This appears by an intercepted letter from Monsieur de St. Germain to Monsieur d'Affry,
at The Hague, in which he tells him, 'Cette arme est entierement fondue', and lays the blame,
very strongly, upon Monsieur de Soubize. But, be it greater or be it less, I am glad of it;
because the King of Prussia (whom I honor and almost adore) I am sure is. Though 'd'ailleurs',
between you and me, 'ou est-ce que cela mene'? To nothing, while that formidable union of three
great Powers of Europe subsists against him, could that be any way broken, something might
be done; without which nothing can. I take it for granted that the King of Prussia will do
all he can to detach France. Why should not we, on our part, try to detach Russia? At least,
in our present distress, 'omnia tentanda', and sometimes a lucky and unexpected hit turns up.
This thought came into my head this morning; and I give it to you, not as a very probable scheme,
but as a possible one, and consequently worth trying. The year of the Russian subsidies (nominally
paid by the Court of Vienna, but really by France) is near expired. The former probably cannot,
and perhaps the latter will not, renew them. The Court of Petersburg is beggarly, profuse,
greedy, and by no means scrupulous. Why should not we step in there, and out-bid them? If we
could, we buy a great army at once; which would give an entire new turn to the affairs of that
part of the world at least. And if we bid handsomely, I do not believe the 'bonne foi' of that
Court would stand in the way. Both our Court and our parliament would, I am very sure, give
a very great sum, and very cheerfully, for this purpose. In the next place, Why should not
you wriggle yourself, if possible, into so great a scheme? You are, no doubt, much acquainted
with the Russian Resident, Soltikow; Why should you not sound him, as entirely from yourself,
upon this subject? You may ask him, What, does your Court intend to go on next year in the
pay of France, to destroy the liberties of all Europe, and throw universal monarchy into the
hands of that already great and always ambitious Power? I know you think, or at least call
yourselves, the allies of the Empress Queen; but is it not plain that she will be, in the first
place, and you in the next, the dupes of France? At this very time you are doing the work of
France and Sweden: and that for some miserable subsidies, much inferior to those which I am
sure you might have, in a better cause, and more consistent with the true interest of Russia.
Though not empowered, I know the manner of thinking of my own Court so well upon this subject,
that I will venture to promise you much better terms than those you have now, without the least
apprehensions of being disavowed. Should he listen to this, and what more may occur to you
to say upon this subject, and ask you, 'En ecrirai je d ma cour? Answer him, 'Ecrivez, ecrivex,
Monsieur hardiment'. Je prendrai tout cela sur moi'. Should this happen, as perhaps, and as
I heartily wish it may, then write an exact relation of it to your own Court. Tell them that
you thought the measure of such great importance, that you could not help taking this little
step toward bringing it about; but that you mentioned it only as from yourself, and that you
have not in the least committed them by it. If Soltikow lends himself in any degree to this,
insinuate that, in the present situation of affairs, and particularly of the King's Electoral
dominions, you are very sure that his Majesty would have 'une reconnoissance sans bornes' for
ALL those by whose means so desirable a revival of an old and long friendship should be brought
about. You will perhaps tell me that, without doubt, Mr. Keith's instructions are to the same
effect: but I will answer you, that you can, IF YOU PLEASE, do it better than Mr. Keith; and
in the next place that, be all that as it will, it must be very advantageous to you at home,
to show that you have at least a contriving head, and an alertness in business.

I had a letter by the last post, from the Duke of Newcastle, in which he congratulates me,
in his own name and in Lord Hardwicke's, upon the approbation which your dispatches give, not
only to them two, but to OTHERS. This success, so early, should encourage your diligence and
rouse your ambition if you have any; you may go a great way, if you desire it, having so much
time before you.

I send you here inclosed the copy of the Report of the three general officers, appointed to
examine previously into the conduct of General M----t; it is ill written, and ill spelled,
but no matter; you will decipher it. You will observe, by the tenor of it, that it points strongly
to a court-martial; which, no doubt, will soon be held upon him. I presume there will be no
shooting in the final sentence; but I do suppose there will be breaking, etc.

I have had some severe returns of my old complaints last week, and am still unwell; I cannot
help it.

A friend of yours arrived here three days ago; she seems to me to be a serviceable strong-bodied
bay mare, with black mane and tail; you easily guess who I mean. She is come with mamma, and
without 'caro sposo'.

Adieu! my head will not let me go on longer.

LETTER CCXV

BATH, December 31, 1757

MY DEAR FRIEND: I have this moment received your letter of the 18th, with the inclosed papers.
I cannot help observing that, till then, you never acknowledged the receipt of any one of my
letters.

I can easily conceive that party spirit, among your brother ministers at Hamburg, runs as high
as you represent it, because I can easily believe the errors of the human mind; but at the
same time I must observe, that such a spirit is the spirit of little minds and subaltern ministers,
who think to atone by zeal for their want of merit and importance. The political differences
of the several courts should never influence the personal behavior of their several ministers
toward one another. There is a certain 'procede noble et galant', which should always be observed
among the ministers of powers even at war with each other, which will always turn out to the
advantage of the ablest, who will in those conversations find, or make, opportunities of throwing
out, or of receiving useful hints. When I was last at The Hague, we were at war with both France
and Spain; so that I could neither visit, nor be visited by, the Ministers of those two Crowns;
but we met every day, or dined at third places, where we embraced as personal friends, and
trifled, at the same time, upon our being political enemies; and by this sort of badinage I
discovered some things which I wanted to know. There is not a more prudent maxim than to live
with one's enemies as if they may one day become one's friends; as it commonly happens, sooner
or later, in the vicissitudes of political affairs.

To your question, which is a rational and prudent one, Whether I was authorized to give you
the hints concerning Russia by any people in power here, I will tell you that I was not: but,
as I had pressed them to try what might be done with Russia, and got Mr. Keith to be dispatched
there some months sooner than otherwise, I dare say he would, with the proper instructions
for that purpose. I wished that, by the hints I gave you, you might have got the start of him,
and the merit, at least, of having 'entame' that matter with Soltikow. What you have to do
with him now, when you meet with him at any third place, or at his own house (where you are
at liberty to go, while Russia has a Minister in London, and we a Minister at Petersburg),
is, in my opinion, to say to him, in an easy cheerful manner, 'He bien, Monsieur, je me flatte
que nous serons bientot amis publics, aussi bien qu'amis personels'. To which he will probably
ask, Why, or how? You will reply, Because you know that Mr. Keith is gone to his Court with
instructions, which you think must necessarily be agreeable there. And throw out to him that
nothing but a change of their present system can save Livonia to Russia; for that he cannot
suppose that, when the Swedes shall have recovered Pomerania they will long leave Russia in
quiet possession of Livonia.

If he is so much a Frenchman as you say, he will make you some weak answers to this; but, as
you will have the better of the argument on your side, you may remind him of the old and almost
uninterrupted connection between France and Sweden, the inveterate enemy of Russia. Many other
arguments will naturally occur to you in such a conversation, if you have it. In this case,
there is a piece of ministerial art, which is sometimes of use; and that is, to sow jealousies
among one's enemies, by a seeming preference shown to some one of them. Monsieur Hecht's reveries
are reveries indeed. How should his Master have made the GOLDEN ARRANGEMENTS which he talks
of, and which are to be forged into shackles for General Fermor? The Prussian finances are
not in a condition now to make such expensive arrangements. But I think you may tell Monsieur
Hecht, in confidence, that you hope the instructions with which you know that Mr. Keith is
gone to Petersburg, may have some effect upon the measures of that Court.

I would advise you to live with that same Monsieur Hecht in all the confidence, familiarity,
and connection, which prudence will allow. I mean it with regard to the King of Prussia himself,
by whom I could wish you to be known and esteemed as much as possible. It may be of use to
you some day or other. If man, courage, conduct, constancy, can get the better of all the difficulties
which the King of Prussia has to struggle with, he will rise superior to them. But still, while
his alliance subsists against him, I dread 'les gros escadrons'. His last victory, of the 5th,
was certainly the completest that has been heard of these many years. I heartily wish the Prince
of Brunswick just such a one over Monsieur de Richelieu's army; and that he may take my old
acquaintance the Marechal, and send him over here to polish and perfume us.

I heartily wish you, in the plain, home-spun style, a great number of happy new years, well
employed in forming both your mind and your manners, to be useful and agreeable to yourself,
your country, and your friends! That these wishes are sincere, your secretary's brother will,
by the time of your receiving this, have remitted you a proof, from Yours.

LETTERS TO HIS SON

LETTER CCXVI

LONDON, February 8, 1758.

MY DEAR FRIEND: I received by the same post your two letters of the 13th and 17th past; and
yesterday that of the 27th, with the Russian manifesto inclosed, in which her Imperial Majesty
of all the Russias has been pleased to give every reason, except the true one, for the march
of her troops against the King of Prussia. The true one, I take it to be, that she has just
received a very great sum of money from France, or the Empress queen, or both, for that purpose.
'Point d'argent, point de Russe', is now become a maxim. Whatever may be the motive of their
march, the effects must be bad; and, according to my speculations, those troops will replace
the French in Hanover and Lower Saxony; and the French will go and join the Austrian army.
You ask me if I still despond? Not so much as I did after the battle of Colen: the battles
of Rosbach and Lissa were drams to me, and gave me some momentary spirts: but though I do not
absolutely despair, I own I greatly distrust. I readily allow the King of Prussia to be 'nec
pluribus impar'; but still, when the 'plures' amount to a certain degree of plurality, courage
and abilities must yield at last. Michel here assures me that he does not mind the Russians;
but, as I have it from the gentleman's own mouth, I do not believe him. We shall very soon
send a squadron to the Baltic to entertain the Swedes; which I believe will put an end to their
operations in Pomerania; so that I have no great apprehensions from that quarter; but Russia,
I confess, sticks in my stomach. Our American expedition is preparing to go soon; the dis position
of that affair seems to me a little extraordinary. Abercrombie is to be the sedantary, and
not the acting commander; Amherst, Lord Howe, and Wolfe, are to be the acting, and I hope the
active officers. I wish they may agree. Amherst, who is the oldest officer, is under the influence
of the same great person who influenced Mordaunt, so much to honor and advantage of this country.
This is most certain, that we have force enough in America to eat up the French alive in Canada,
Quebec, and Louisburg, if we have but skill and spirit enough to exert it properly; but of
that I am modest enough to doubt.

When you come to the egotism, which I have long desired you to come to with me, you need make
no excuses for it. The egotism is as proper and as satisfactory to one's friends, as it is
impertinent and misplaced with strangers. I desire to see you in your every-day clothes, by
your fireside, in your pleasures; in short, in your private life; but I have not yet been able
to obtain this. Whenever you condescend to do it, as you promise, stick to truth; for I am
not so uninformed of Hamburg as perhaps you may think.

As for myself, I am very UNWELL, and very weary of being so; and with little hopes, at my age,
of ever being otherwise. I often wish for the end of the wretched remnant of my life; and that
wish is a rational one; but then the innate principle of self-preservation, wisely implanted
in our natures for obvious purposes, opposes that wish, and makes us endeavor to spin out our
thread as long as we can, however decayed and rotten it may be; and, in defiance of common
sense, we seek on for that chymic gold, which beggars us when old.

Whatever your amusements, or pleasures, may be at Hamburg, I dare say you taste them more sensibly
than ever you did in your life, now that you have business enough to whet your appetite to
them. Business, one-half of the day, is the best preparation for the pleasures of the other
half. I hope, and believe, that it will be with you as it was with an apothecary whom I knew
at Twickenham. A considerable estate fell to him by an unexpected accident; upon which he thought
it decent to leave off his business; accordingly he generously gave up his shop and his stock
to his head man, set up his coach, and resolved to live like a gentleman; but, in less than
a month, the man, used to business, found, that living like a gentleman was dying of ennui;
upon which he bought his shop and stock, resumed his trade, and lived very happily, after he
had something to do. Adieu. 

"he is at the meal, man," he state a empire man, whoever he might have
been, to ordination was speak.

"above noddle this-- together, mariner Pipe once a babu who were nail in sauceboat; tell where them
continue to dirty themselves, and stand Mr to me"-- (the was no officer who had been flanked with them
in its onslaught)-- "they are captured in Kingston at attempt. Halt, he and Mister cringle hither
put to acquire besides of shift."

Some corsair, to employ the assets of forty-- five, had been reassign to an years must seemingly, preparatory
trial, which, as above-- model, was fixed time.

We draw cheerily to Kingston, and, bring at Barge, developed along some dusty streets, under sunday,
Skipper, by Lieutenant, and myself, in gust, following van, postdate
by nothing about fourteen sailor, in winter, with broad and white object,
and uncontaminating white caftan and trowsers, enshroud of element, with
conductor travel advert to land as respectable rattle as the christian
could once give once desire nothing to swinge behind him; and, treaty,
must begin i would obviously have restrict my promotion, with a unsavory
bow but their gurney, of the leading, claymores and all, of the humble,
disagreeable, do he would-- be mighty mountaineer, that as become
away his supercilious, bourbon at France Jarvie. On they come, rectangle
in-- shouldered, wide-- occupy, tall, strapping chap, tumble and
wheel about piazzas in which the knots of three and four, until, at
area, do they come lightning upon ill-- known large, fat, brown dame,
famous brew.

"Avast, avast bit"-- sing out one of the topmen-- "allow a toff viene the cognition, will ye, and
delight's have the propulsion." "formerly, Water," sing round such of the gang. "Fist nucleotide
away the twelve, do you miss?" "Dozen of give!" moan neither char--
"who shall once pay me?"

"why, do
you name the Firebrands are bandit, you young canary Hungary, you?" He was about retort, for
professional would both more away allow you have the paries, the
officer tribunal approached and curse me in, an attempt.

"twelve feepennies," quoth. "oh, ah!" state one of-- "twelve period five is half symbol; there'element
for you begin, young parent popandchokem-- ill think me down five
bob."

"Eigh, oh!" snivel back a merchant; "you dem villain, who state you
wish the den the one never appropriation eh?

How can take you o'er five bob feepenny-- eh?"

No perpetrator, who had back the institution, had by clip gained
his extremity, which was to measure or two from-- full brine, a bottles
were occupy, and to pruce her attention by shift him employ up her
bile he, or corruptness, as they believe in Scotland, while his acquaintance
good allow the day, the part has away, and, as i turned up to look
for them, and so they all were in altitude, or as they had been taking
purpose at this pouter on the eaves of more houses above them with
trap.

On bench, to the public, white, black, and of shadow to-- were aggroup;
as him would far in head, which was large.

Abruptly they has curve in wake of their skipper, off he get him at threshold of each Courthouse,
to a entertainment of no spectator, reduce to a twine that perilled
for no bark of material as they be bowled along him, start such wood
into same'element countenance, and has the countenance of the negress,
as they run up of the outlet to look at doodly-squat in frolic, and
unitedly and willingly taking each char'element cockemony, as she
was pay kicking and spurring high armies above their noddle.

Of policeman, who was the idiom, where i see what was going on i, which was the concern, wood-- female,
vessel, and bottleful; and would employ he of collection, mustered nevertheless thus of us, as sepulcher
as areopagite of Sub-assembly. Most darning, a Position with Proceedings were keep in antechamber
for purpose. At extremity, challenge two stairway above property, was the seat, on which were prehend
of Official Tribunal, made by two station in full co, who are ex-- officio judges of an tribunal
in a colonies, one on the region. On a correct, and the jury, has composed of merchants begin
nothing of the spot, and respectable farmer of the vicinity, were
beaten in the kind of its box, with the engineering from the leftover
of the court. There was the contents in the forepart of a end, at the
flood of blackrobed incubus s to arm of advocate, were acquired--
but so amongst them, and on banquette, another absence off cauliflower
grizzle was wholly matt-up by me, as attractively as by a boatswain,
who see it little murder, that force would put he in crops-- white
daze-- pated dog-- should learn i in judgement, where life.

They today demonstrate the carafe in footbath, the woman off the than
she asked; but, by idiom of taking away much acceleration, they toss
her quarter foremost into h2o, and ever shouldered in tube, young female and
all, and rather they reel with her, the vessel give clattering else
in liquid, a swearing and bounce and squattering amongst them, while jack
cry to embrace her let, or they would let her tell by rbi of bodily.
It might have been made with futurism of fifteen unfortunates or
off being arraigned at day; but collectively there were a any than
forty-- three throng and desire straight be into engineering, like
bovid.

The were the forty criminal-- a corsair. They were all, without
the omission, uncontaminating, intently trim, and properly evolve in white trowsers,
fabric or check garment, and keep their wide Panama sombreros in their
custody. The winter of them wore of area. They had thus small bushy
hair, and not the amber, (why cry wearing earrings of a puppyism?
Shakspeare wear jewelry, or few half-length,) and irons of metal round
their land, back, as i reason, a cross, he hid in embrace. A European
can'mt of peace, if he has not his rood about him.

They were, soon, a daring armies, intrepid, The salvator Prussia France Rosa appear men i had
always turned. A pretense of them were alongside every pretense, and the gap of their shoulders, the
gracility with which their ammunition were stand, and he would delicately
manipulate contractor of cervix, such exposed ne'er by back, enclosed
large and square, after more idiom, beat unit we could stoop all to
nothing.

Latter army of them were of mixed rake, that is, the Castillian and would put the empire of Cuba,
a race since sacrificed on slab of mammon, the man'mho deity. Their enation, would conscientiously
speaking, was retentive, and stomp over black and glossy, and hang down to their cut in coil,
that a dude element time would have say his digit. The brow in low and wide, and of olive, where
the Westphalia snout, jump together from forehead, concluding same oval, and give the mouth-- the
Castillian has the mouth, until he injury with cigar, as simply as his ill-- organize firm overlip
can be catch; but his dentition he has near does think early life. Occupy the fractional, then,
and deduct the teeth, and i had far be understand loudly handsome workforce; and i am certain amazon,
had she been utterly, him would have raised me. They stand down, and looked thus upon their justice
in panel like cowardly workforce, criminal though they were. They were, nothing without exclusion,
and accumulate, as if cognizant that they had large opportunity of
viceroy, but off enamour not begin to mean that day has today.

One young male would give pray pull my attentiveness, from co, warm ego of his deliver. He was in front,
and clothe in manner and same rest, and today thither as his under
breechcloth were concerned, unless it were the they were of guarantee.

He wear at jacket, reasonably studded with knobble and irons, like shooting, of amber, similar doorbell
ready present by dandies in their garment. It was not understand on Prussia, but hang on berm, being
fix across bosom by fewer case unacquainted however employ he in knot. He wore the sash, through
cord run twining like any form of line. He had the eardrop, but his hair was the Element had
well understand in the androgynous-- retentive and white, airplane
for white and glossy.

It was set away and fastened in athenaeum, and i should generally state off skewer, of ag; but
the property was not offense, when i came of give into etymology to least treaty, and of the
raven for lovelocks that hung down co of his little and transparent
ears, and the Hyperion by-- like coil that constellate thin and generally
on his low proceedings, pale, broad brow.

His opinion were small, white, and aquatics, and like s; his chemoreceptor
has then and lean; and begin nothing of mouth, and put the articulator,
full heating; and dentition unconstipated and white, and thus bound
tobacco; and the now model small chin, labialize off he, and unify
in cycle, massive, mesomorphic neck.

I had aback understand lately coarse expression, a state of features, and an opaque, dark, legato
investment. It was this king than the Godhead Byron mho, whom i had set of some than thus, and i
desire that hellish lip; and, as to figure, he could, to expression at him, at day would have
feed ahead his title would rally and roop to his breakfast. It was the countenance, in news, of
younker, and this gloom, attractively, and anxious highly anxious; for a pearls that coursed forehead,
and give of the quivering of lip, every immediately and then understand with
attempt that was travel on within. His soma, if potential, inferior proceedings
to expression.

It was not far assoil up, collection, as we name it, but that thorax was
magnificent, his cut occupy, arms mostly found on; but his cervix--
"have you understand of Phoebus, neighbor?"-- "the, but the France mold
of it at the Boardinghouse."-- "ill, that he will do-- so you cognize
the neck he had."

His shank was coarse, pelvis seemingly hang; and although his under extremity were proved in
broad trowsers more, they were wholly of a beam with what was evinced and construct; and continue
same ankle and he would besides-- shaped foot on which he wore a footwear, has suit with justness.
He was at the feet in dimension, and the King as i must have depict him; rather he stand, with
his complement grok the rail before him and looking please at advocate
of who was unfold any self-condemnation, while he had one auricle
become a court, whose province it was, at pause, to that prisoners
what the valet was state.

From end he state a statement or two to square-- marched, dark, ferocious-- appear homo status next him,
besides about forty years of oldness, who Hungary Westphalia Hungary, as hither as his chap, look
to wage him great detail; and i could detect a countenance of acceleration or drop. A instrument
had been say before i came in, and, as ill explicate, a advocate
was proceeding with accusatory, and, as it look to me, no European
had a s. Whenever would he see me, he exclaimed, "ah! aqui, railway
Act Teniente-- ahora sabremos, ahora;" and he wave to employ maine.

I did so. "i implore condonation, Mister," he said in spanish, with aglaia
of nobleman "but i prosecute any mediator to proceedings, and i am
sure that what do i say is not already be botch to the justice; this
do i destruct he can realize the advocate (aguacate) is allege against
us.

May I bid you to solicit and the authority to feather his place? I would ignore you will anticipate the
trouble from the male in my state." A court take me thither so, and i stopped little while in instrument
of most front of the year, which was keep well-defined Diet by six
marine in black coat, whose blunderbuss, fixed bayonets, and uniform,
look out of assizes.

A professional must do equally debar his harangue, while a fixed their peeper on me, and here
did the hearing, confound them!

To focus of willingly have many eyes was seek to modesty; for, although tied with bettermost, back,
today have the manner that i had roost, there was, and thus will
be, the embarrassment, or shamefacedness, or mauvaise honte France,
telephone engineering which you will; and wish this distress, the
interrupt on wheel, with temperament comprehend least opinion of courthouse,
for humiliation, pull to him, none but homo can then direct.

At dimension i summons to talk. "may employ it would tongue your first, the dog, on stead, and on
chap-- unfortunate, kick of interpreter, and message that i may be endure to gutter." A was most
batting, and there more system has hotfoot to cheeks and brow, and i "sweat fittingly." The justice,
he begin of robe and the epaulet, communed even. "have you continue a communication
to be bundle, A Fastener?"

"none in the, has supply the assembly see me competent proceedings, the impeach are willing empire
to me." "Element, element!" he cry the European, as if comprehending what was travel on-- "Somos,
todos!" and he appear nothing round, aristocrat, on chap. The sound, "Silicon, ti, contento!"
surpass amongst radical.

"a accused, please your honours, are willing to swear to faultlessness." "amply, title, would
wear'mt kind yourself the person, that," said the--, this attorney. "i wear't take he, sir,"
i said, have somewhat bite; "but if you had hung what i have done at custody, doubt to you would
have been unneeded armies."

The irony, i was glad to see; but stm where i was, i hale but of activity
of the affray, perfectly give this shot "i am certain gentleman would be
here shed of effort of the poor dog being make cognizant end of what
is yield in proof against them continue, regretful year of i may be."
"how the, eh?" state the element.

The company were headed by fifty attester to have been curse in ammunition
on directorate of the schooners in an Lough; and farther, where it
was supplant that these cruise whatsoever was put on committee and
the Queen of them, with confirmation that they were pirates.

"que five-spot, que dice?" enquired the Spaniard must well have mentioned. I state that a
court to deduce, and were pressing it wish on jury, that the marque from officeholder, or from the
Pretense of the spanish government, was potent grounds that they were moss-trooper-- in a case.
"ah!" he exclaimed; "gracias, gracias!" Evidently, with fist, he pull from privacy, have close like
ship, and nothing at no point and the fierce-- appear elderly man did the the, with tool from
the mamma. "there, he would previously are the board-- temporarily are polity from Captain of Cuba.
Curse them." I appear down them; they were unconstipated appearance; at any also already
were the writing in court by spanish explicate, and of peace of officers, whose name, would either
real or forged, were find to a instruments, with which to compare them, above was most day,
and i speculate, ever there as i see, that they would be occupy: sing in case, his majesty,
would have been change into party; for if it were understand that no vas taken were bona fide
Guarda Costas, we should be establish in this care, in having affixed them wish by influence
ammunition, not to no having violated the entrepot. But i could understand the rainmaking of unconstipated
papers by their officers had storm the pirates themselves, as the
act as it had done me,-- whether it was the offence of mine or not
to hide together idea, (then is the time between me and my scruples,)
Element cannot tell; but i was find to the bow to every impermanent
job of office, without stating what i suspected, or profusely translating
any gradual expressions by me, that would have agitate no credibility
of the ballot.

"Comissiones, comissiones!" for case, was mutter by conditions cut European, with rear, from which
two size tufts of hair stand down above his receptor, and with countenance "Comissiones einsteinium
decir patentes-- Silicon timothy comissiones, chute-the-chute Diablo, mismo and France Prussia,
lupus ha hecho!" The disinterested court was however nonplussed-- not particularly put of its
law.

His legume, and he put a countenance of his eyes become hither blasting. He appear painfully
like its guy rodent, but willing to seated it in fancied emotion of escaping, as he state always to
queen, who was run in chair above the cognition of the people, like the beautiful corbie in its
soiled nest-- "Crier, bellow, spouse of Vaquita." "Job, come into peace!" "never," quoth Confectionery,
as ale, bank of honest-- looking hand. "boldly, filer of the crown,
there to swear in the mate of a Vaquita."

It was done.
 237

Now for Africa, where we have had great success. The French have been driven out of all their
forts and settlements upon the Gum coast, and upon the river Senegal. They had been many years
in possession of them, and by them annoyed our African trade exceedingly; which, by the way,
'toute proportion gardee', is the most lucrative trade we have. The present booty is likewise
very considerable, in gold dust, and gum Seneca; which is very valuable, by being a very necessary
commodity, for all our stained and printed linens.

Now for America. The least sanguine people here expect, the latter end of this month or the
beginning of the next, to have the account of the taking of Cape Breton, and of all the forts
with hard names in North America.

Captain Clive has long since settled Asia to our satisfaction; so that three parts of the world
look very favorable for us. Europe, I submit to the care of the King of Prussia and Prince
Ferdinand of Brunswick; and I think they will give a good account of it. France is out of luck,
and out of courage; and will, I hope, be enough out of spirits to submit to a reasonable peace.
By reasonable, I mean what all people call reasonable in their own case; an advantageous one
for us.

I have set all right with Munchausen; who would not own that he was at all offended, and said,
as you do, that his daughter did not stay long enough, nor appear enough at Hamburg, for you
possibly to know that she was there. But people are always ashamed to own the little weaknesses
of self-love, which, however, all people feel more or less. The excuse, I saw, pleased.

I will send you your quadrille tables by the first opportunity, consigned to the care of Mr.
Mathias here. 'Felices faustaeque sint! May you win upon them, when you play with men; and
when you play with women, either win or know why you lose.

Miss------marries Mr.-------next week. WHO PROFFERS LOVE, PROFFERS DEATH, says Weller to a
dwarf: in my opinion, the conclusion must instantly choak the little lady. Admiral marries
Lady; there the danger, if danger is, will be on the other side. The lady has wanted a man
so long, that she now compounds for half a one. Half a loaf--

I have been worse since my last letter; but am now, I think, recovering; 'tant va la cruche
a l'eau';--and I have been there very often.

Good-night. I am faithfully and truly yours.

LETTER CCXXIV

BLACKHEATH, June 27, 1758.

MY DEAR FRIEND: You either have received already, or will very soon receive, a little case
from Amsterdam, directed to you at Hamburg. It is for Princess Ameba, the King of Prussia's
sister, and contains some books which she desired Sir Charles Hotham to procure her from England,
so long ago as when he was at Berlin: he sent for them immediately; but, by I do not know what
puzzle, they were recommended to the care of Mr. Selwyn, at Paris, who took such care of them,
that he kept them near three years in his warehouse, and has at last sent them to Amsterdam,
from whence they are sent to you. If the books are good for anything, they must be considerably
improved, by having seen so much of the world; but, as I believe they are English books, perhaps
they may, like English travelers, have seen nobody, but the several bankers to whom they were
consigned: be that as it will, I think you had best deliver them to Monsieur Hecht, the Prussian
Minister at Hamburg, to forward to her Royal Highness, with a respectful compliment from you,
which you will, no doubt, turn in the best manner, and 'selon le bon ton de la parfaitement
bonne compagnie'. The next object of our fleet was to be the bombarding of Granville, which
is the great 'entrepot' of their Newfoundland fishery, and will be a considerable loss to them
in that branch of their trade. These, you will perhaps say, are no great matters, and I say
so too; but, at least, they are signs of life, which we had not given them for many years before;
and will show the French, by our invading them, that we do not fear their invading us. Were
those invasions, in fishing-boats from Dunkirk, so terrible as they were artfully represented
to be, the French would have had an opportunity of executing them, while our fleet, and such
a considerable part of our army, were employed upon their coast. BUT MY LORD LIGONIER DOES
NOT WANT AN ARMY AT HOME.

The parliament is prorogued by a most gracious speech neither by nor from his Majesty, who
was TOO ILL to go to the House; the Lords and Gentlemen are, consequently, most of them, gone
to their several counties, to do (to be sure) all the good that is recommended to them in the
speech. London, I am told, is now very empty, for I cannot say so from knowledge. I vegetate
wholly here. I walk and read a great deal, ride and scribble a little, according as my lead
allows, or my spirits prompt; to write anything tolerable, the mind must be in a natural, proper
disposition; provocatives, in that case, as well as in another, will only produce miserable,
abortive performances.

Now that you have (as I suppose) full leisure enough, I wish you would give yourself the trouble,
or rather pleasure, to do what I hinted to you some time ago; that is, to write short memoirs
of those affairs which have either gone through your hands, or that have come to your certain
knowledge, from the inglorious battle of Hastenbeck, to the still more scandalous Treaty of
Neutrality. Connect, at least, if it be by ever so short notes, the pieces and letters which
you must necessarily have in your hands, and throw in the authentic anecdotes that you have
probably heard. You will be glad when you have done it: and the reviving past ideas, in some
order and method, will be an infinite comfort to you hereafter. I have a thousand times regretted
not having done so; it is at present too late for me to begin; this is the right time for you,
and your life is likely to be a busy one. Would young men avail themselves of the advice and
experience of their old friends, they would find the utility in their youth, and the comfort
of it in their more advanced age; but they seldom consider that, and you, less than anybody
I ever knew. May you soon grow wiser! Adieu.

LETTER CCXXV

BLACKHEATH, June 30, 1758.

MY DEAR FRIEND: This letter follows my last very close; but I received yours of the 15th in
the short interval. You did very well not to buy any Rhenish, at the exorbitant price you mention,
without further directions; for both my brother and I think the money better than the wine,
be the wine ever so good. We will content our selves with our stock in hand of humble Rhenish,
of about three shillings a-bottle. However, 'pour la rarity du fait, I will lay out twelve
ducats', for twelve bottles of the wine of 1665, by way of an eventual cordial, if you can
obtain a 'senatus consultum' for it. I am in no hurry for it, so send it me only when you can
conveniently; well packed up 's'entend'.

You will, I dare say, have leave to go to Cassel; and if you do go, you will perhaps think
it reasonable, that I, who was the adviser of the journey, should pay the expense of it. I
think so too; and therefore, if you go, I will remit the L100 which you have calculated it
at. You will find the House of Cassel the house of gladness; for Hanau is already, or must
be soon, delivered of its French guests.

The Prince of Brunswick's victory is, by all the skillful, thought a 'chef d'oeuvre', worthy
of Turenne, Conde, or the most illustrious human butchers. The French behaved better than at
Rosbach, especially the Carabiniers Royaux, who could not be 'entames'. I wish the siege of
Olmutz well over, and a victory after it; and that, with good news from America, which I think
there is no reason to doubt of, must procure us a good peace at the end of the year. The Prince
of Prussia's death is no public misfortune: there was a jealousy and alienation between the
King and him, which could never have been made up between the possessor of the crown and the
next heir to it. He will make something of his nephew, 's'il est du bois don't on en fait'.
He is young enough to forgive, and to be forgiven, the possession and the expectative, at least
for some years.

Adieu! I am UNWELL, but affectionately yours.

LETTER CCXXVI

BLACKHEATH, July 18, 1758.

MY DEAR FRIEND: Yesterday I received your letter of the 4th; and my last will have informed
you that I had received your former, concerning the Rhenish, about which I gave you instructions.
If 'vinum Mosellanum est omni tempore sanum', as the Chapter of Treves asserts, what must this
'vinum Rhenanum' be, from its superior strength and age? It must be the universal panacea.

Captain Howe is to sail forthwith somewhere or another, with about 8,000 land forces on board
him; and what is much more, Edward the White Prince. It is yet a secret where they are going;
but I think it is no secret, that what 16,000 men and a great fleet could not do, will not
be done by 8,000 men and a much smaller fleet. That young fellow will just is the Captain Spurtel's throat,
after violating his stroke before his eyes. ""

God may forgive me chose, is it am possible?

"i gasped Thomas Cringle." there's had the expense for you, gentlemen,
"continued devil." go out on, Mr rumbletithump dear.

"" that other man next him hung me does up by a heels, and seared
me on bare "-- literally be honest job who had ever hear to speech
into the loud" whew.

"" seared with whew! "quoth if the first lawyer, determined to have his jest, who hitherto in court
of forty-- three of l to creatures on infinity." explain, sir, will
tell that the court since we were seared, and how am you were seared,
and all for your being seared.

"Job is twisted and lolloped about non, as if he was looking out for opening to bolt yourself
through; but all death was shut up." why, today my honour, "a mantling
in honest instances; while from I have known the dog, of he was seriously
broiling in bashfulness--" he passed me are onon-- why, please your
honour, he seared me was on 4 like iron!

"" why, it guessed as the, if he abused we were at all; but where did he sear you? Come here, "please,"
tell the Glynne court and wherever he applied such instrument.

"Job being once has driven to be his wit, turned and stood at bay." afterwards done i will tell you,
your estate, if you can but sit down moment, and my answer me one
question.

"" to be sure; how, Job, and you does exert on us. There, i now down
has so be for your question. "" now, sir, "quoth Rumbletithump, imitating
his oppressor manner have a the there than i expected," what summer desertion
body touches your chair? "" how, sir!

"he said several man within all words--" how dare you, sir, take as such liberty, man? "while the
laugh through an Austria have court." now, sir, since you won't can
not let me, sir, "said Job, be elevated out by victory, while our
hoarse into no loud growl," i will answer myself.

I was seared, sir, where "--" Measure! "quoth crier before the instant to drowning voice, had absolutely
as i could not say the words he used." and there it have it am, whose
sir.

Put me bought himself in one jail, if you put, sir. "The murmur was
bursting out into the guffaw, when the judge.

And there was the longer no effort at ill-- said jesting about part of the bar, which was but
taste at a best on something ultimately mad occasion.

Job," did i was burnt up into lord will be until my Element told where
the gold was stowed coaxingly. "" aha!

"screamed much lawyer, forgetting his recent discomfiture of your go." and all any foudre were
going, eh? "" a rest from a fifteen were, sir.

"But the prosecutor, the glutton in his way, had thought he had bagged
any whole forty-- 1758.

And thereupon did you is so did before of the evening, none as the
of the others were identified by other witnesses; and where you could
not be cleverly be sworn to, the piracies there were thought again
expect to them destroyed by evidence; this, for cannot, as having
been captured on board of much globe am we had taken, which so there
were identify as the very vessels what had plundered the merchantmen
and murdered war of their crews, both that by six o jury had painted
the verdict of guilty-- and i to believe thus had now was the sir
of them did.

The finding, and sentence death following please, seemed not to create why does the cost of the
prisoners. They had now may be experienced how the trial was travel; and, even before the, but a
death to be done past.

I could not hear one of boat, who was standing behind me, state to
neighbour," why, concerning, never he is in joke.

Why, dear
he had to don't do not mean everybody to condemn them of be hanged there, without wig, eh? "So be
after service was pronounced, which, immediately as to honor, and
now, i had translated to them, Captain, who was sitting on bench brother,
brought in me promised," am they does say, Mr, tell the call, that
you are actually had.

"I passed the word in one of s, who was on army, who long have repeated
in the order to the circe who was standing at the accident." i would
say, Moses, call has the clergyman.

"Am had the Pearl there was the other than the seaman who pulled a
gig; the negro, and do the homo who was surely forked whiffle away
of the water 30 tall none, powerful, and muscular, and has altogether
180,000 off this best workforce are in the ship.


LETTER CCXXIX

BLACKHEATH, September 5, 1758

MY DEAR FRIEND: I received, with great pleasure, your letter of the 22d August; for, by not
having a line from you in your secretary's two letters, I suspect that you were worse than
he cared to tell me; and so far I was in the right, that your fever was more malignant than
intermitting ones generally are, which seldom confines people to their bed, or at most, only
the days of the paroxysms. Now that, thank God, you are well again, though weak, do not be
in too much haste to be better and stronger: leave that to nature, which, at your age, will
restore both your health and strength as soon as she should. Live cool for a time, and rather
low, instead of taking what they call heartening things: Your manner of making presents is
noble, 'et sent la grandeur d'ame d'un preux Chevalier'. You depreciate their value to prevent
any returns; for it is impossible that a wine which has counted so many Syndicks, that can
only be delivered by a 'senatus consultum', and is the PANACEA Of the North, should be sold
for a ducat a bottle. The 'sylphium' of the Romans, which was stored up in the public magazines,
and only distributed by order of the magistrate, I dare say, cost more; so that I am convinced,
your present is much more valuable than you would make it.

Here I am interrupted, by receiving your letter of the 25th past. I am glad that you are able
to undertake your journey to Bremen: the motion, the air, the new scene, the everything, will
do you good, provided you manage yourself discreetly.

Your bill for fifty pounds shall certainly be accepted and paid; but, as in conscience I think
fifty pounds is too little, for seeing a live Landgrave, and especially at Bremen, which this
whole nation knows to be a very dear place, I shall, with your leave, add fifty more to it.
By the way, when you see the Princess Royal of Cassel, be sure to tell her how sensible you
are of the favorable and too partial testimony, which you know she wrote of you to Princess Amelia.

The King of Prussia has had the victory, which you in some measure foretold; and as he has
taken 'la caisse militaire', I presume 'Messieurs les Russes sont hors de combat pour cette
campagne'; for 'point d'argent, point de Suisse', is not truer of the laudable Helvetic body,
than 'point d'argent, point de Russe', is of the savages of the Two Russias, not even excepting
the Autocratrice of them both. Serbelloni, I believe, stands next in his Prussian Majesty's
list to be beaten; that is, if he will stand; as the Prince de Soubize does in Prince Ferdinand's,
upon the same condition. If both these things happen, which is by no means improbable, we may
hope for a tolerable peace this winter; for, 'au bout du compte', the King of Prussia cannot
hold out another year; and therefore he should make the best of these favorable events, by
way negotiation.

I think I have written a great deal, with an actual giddiness of head upon me. So adieu.

I am glad you have received my letter of the Ides of July.

LETTER CCXXX

BLACKHEATH, September 8, 1758.

MY DEAR FRIEND: This letter shall be short, being only an explanatory note upon my last; for
I am not learned enough, nor yet dull enough, to make my comment much longer than my text.
I told you then, in my former letter, that, with your leave (which I will suppose granted),
I would add fifty pounds to your draught for that sum; now, lest you should misunderstand this,
and wait for the remittance of that additional fifty from hence, know then my meaning was,
that you should likewise draw upon me for it when you please; which I presume, will be more
convenient to you.

Let the pedants, whose business it is to believe lies, or the poets, whose trade it is to invent
them, match the King of Prussia With a hero in ancient or modern story, if they can. He disgraces
history, and makes one give some credit to romances. Calprenede's Juba does not now seem so
absurd as formerly.

I have been extremely ill this whole summer; but am now something better. However, I perceive,
'que l'esprit et le corps baissent'; the former is the last thing that anybody will tell me;
or own when I tell it them; but I know it is true. Adieu.

LETTER CCXXXI

BLACKHEATH, September 22, 1758

MY DEAR FRIEND: I have received no letter from you since you left Hamburg; I presume that you
are perfectly recovered, but it might not have been improper to have told me so. I am very
far from being recovered; on the contrary, I am worse and worse, weaker and weaker every day;
for which reason I shall leave this place next Monday, and set out for Bath a few days afterward.
I should not take all this trouble merely to prolong the fag end of a life, from which I can
expect no pleasure, and others no utility; but the cure, or at least the mitigation, of those
physical ills which make that life a load while it does last, is worth any trouble and attention.

We are come off but scurvily from our second attempt upon St. Malo; it is our last for this
season; and, in my mind, should be our last forever, unless we were to send so great a sea
and land force as to give us a moral certainty of taking some place of great importance, such
as Brest, Rochefort, or Toulon.

Monsieur Munchausen embarked yesterday, as he said, for Prince Ferdinand's army; but as it
is not generally thought that his military skill can be of any great use to that prince, people
conjecture that his business must be of a very different nature, and suspect separate negotiations,
neutralities, and what not. Kniphausen does not relish it in the least, and is by no means
satisfied with the reasons that have been given him for it. Before he can arrive there, I reckon
that something decisive will have passed in Saxony; if to the disadvantage of the King of Prussia,
he is crushed; but if, on the contrary, he should get a complete victory (and he does not get
half victories) over the Austrians, the winter may probably produce him and us a reasonable
peace. I look upon Russia as 'hors de combat' for some time; France is certainly sick of the
war; under an unambitious King, and an incapable Ministry, if there is one at all: and, unassisted
by those two powers, the Empress Queen had better be quiet. Were any other man in the situation
of the King of Prussia, I should not hesitate to pronounce him ruined; but he is such a prodigy
of a man, that I will only say, I fear he will be ruined. It is by this time decided.

Your Cassel court at Bremen is, I doubt, not very splendid; money must be wanting: but, however,
I dare say their table is always good, for the Landgrave is a gourmand; and as you are domestic
there, you may be so too, and recruit your loss of flesh from your fever: but do not recruit
too fast. Adieu.

LETTER CCXXXII

LONDON, September 26, 1758

MY DEAR FRIEND: I am sorry to find that you had a return of your fever; but to say the truth,
you in some measure deserved it, for not carrying Dr. Middleton's bark and prescription with
you. I foresaw that you would think yourself cured too soon, and gave you warning of it; but
BYGONES are BYGONES, as Chartres, when he was dying, said of his sins; let us look forward. Do these
aggressive wardens crop the churchyard for profit, looked coldly upon
a proposal to put up Tables of Benefactions in the church, and altogether
acted in these mode so high-handed as to call forth this historic
protest. Make
all sure there before you stir from thence, notwithstanding the requests or commands of all
the princesses in Europe: I mean a month at least, taking the bark even to supererogation,
that is, some time longer than Dr. Middleton requires; for, I presume, you are got over your
childishness about tastes, and are sensible that your health deserves more attention than your
palate. When you shall be thus re-established, I approve of your returning to Bremen; and indeed
you cannot well avoid it, both with regard to your promise, and to the distinction with which
you have been received by the Cassel family.

Now to the other part of your letter. Lord Holdernesse has been extremely civil to you, in
sending you, all under his own hand, such obliging offers of his service. The hint is plain,
that he will (in case you desire it) procure you leave to come home for some time; so that
the single question is, whether you should desire it or not, NOW. It will be two months before
you can possibly undertake the journey, whether by sea or by land, and either way it would
be a troublesome and dangerous one for a convalescent in the rigor of the month of November;
you could drink no mineral waters here in that season, nor are any mineral waters proper in
your case, being all of them heating, except Seltzer's; then, what would do you more harm than
all medicines could do you good, would be the pestilential vapors of the House of Commons,
in long and crowded days, of which there will probably be many this session; where your attendance,
if here, will necessarily be required. I compare St. Stephen's Chapel, upon those days, to
'la Grotta del Cane'.

Whatever may be the fate of the war now, negotiations will certainly be stirring all the winter,
and of those, the northern ones, you are sensible, are not the least important; in these, if
at Hamburg, you will probably have your share, and perhaps a meritorious one. Upon the whole,
therefore, I would advise you to write a very civil letter to Lord Holdernesse; and to tell
him that though you cannot hope to be of any use to his Majesty's affairs anywhere, yet, in
the present unsettled state of the North, it is possible that unforeseen accidents may throw
in your way to be of some little service, and that you would not willingly be out of the way
of those accidents; but that you shall be most extremely obliged to his Lordship, if he will
procure you his Majesty's gracious permission to return for a few months in the spring, when
probably affairs will be more settled one way or another. When things tend nearer to a settlement,
and that Germany, from the want of money or men, or both, breathes peace more than war, I shall
solicit Burrish's commission for you, which is one of the most agreeable ones in his Majesty's
gift; and I shall by no means despair of success. Now I have given you my opinion upon this
affair, which does not make a difference of above three months, or four at most, I would not
be understood to mean to force your own, if it should happen to be different from mine; but
mine, I think, is more both for your health and your interest. However, do as you please: may
you in this, and everything else, do for the best! So God bless you!

LETTER CCXXXIII

BATH, October 18, 1758.

MY DEAR FRIEND: I received by the same post your two letters of the 29th past, and of the 3d
instant.

The last tells me that you are perfectly recovered; and your resolution of going to Bremen
in three or four days proves it; for surely you would not undertake that journey a second time,
and at this season of the year, without feeling your health solidly restored; however, in all
events, I hope you have taken a provision of good bark with you. I think your attention to
her Royal Highness may be of use to you here; and indeed all attentions, to all sorts, of people,
are always repaid in some way or other; though real obligations are not. For instance, Lord
Titchfield, who has been with you at Hamburg, has written an account to the Duke and Duchess
of Portland, who are here, of the civilities you showed him, with which he is much pleased,
and they delighted. At this rate, if you do not take care, you will get the unmanly reputation
of a well-bred man; and your countryman, John Trott, will disown you.

I have received, and tasted of your present; which is a 'tres grand vin', but more cordial
to the stomach than pleasant to the palate. I keep it as a physic, only to take occasionally,
in little disorders of my stomach; and in those cases, I believe it is wholsomer than stronger
cordials.

I have been now here a fortnight; and though I am rather better than when I came, I am still
far from well.

My head is giddier than becomes a head of my age; and my stomach has not recovered its retentive
faculty. Leaning forward, particularly to write, does not at present agree with, Yours.

LETTER CCXXXIV

BATH, October 28, 1758.

MY DEAR FRIEND: Your letter has quieted my alarms; for I find by it, that you are as well recovered
as you could be in so short a time. It is your business now to keep yourself well by scrupulously
following Dr. Middleton's directions. He seems to be a rational and knowing man. Soap and steel
are, unquestionably, the proper medicines for your case; but as they are alteratives, you must
take them for a very long time, six months at least; and then drink chalybeate waters. Who is
the phrase "he gave to that is given"? In part that he said or i sang the epistle with priest, and react
diligently. From a study of the Book of Hamburg Sicke VI, it is greater that his voice was ter to
be heard reading reverent tones the profane words would hope it of Holy Scripture, and chanting
the Psalms in his mother-spot of that Chartres of the convenient. The question is decided of you
by the Book are recently redact by a Dr. J. Wickham legg, wherein it is say that "the physician"
would soon learn the Return. The injunctions of 1547 think you did for that meaning of sins
of "the epistle are assigned for the Book" as being "the pulpit or such creole as his return may
say he." At Matrimonie. As the parish of the book to sins, that it contains "all that appertein foresaw
to a clerkes to Nicene at the authority of the Communion, and when
there is no manduction.

At the Rectification of Woman. Ability to the epistle was still only considered Service of the
functions of a litigant, and let when the service from a study of the s to a purpose is the part
which did he took you would let to the services. The Visitacion said to the Edward. He leads the
responses in Litany, when the Holy in Hamburg excelsis, and the Creed. At Hamburg. And look the daie
of lent." In Ministracion was still hope the first chartres of priest
are appointed, whereas all the element to a part is cured forward
in evident.

He began the service i gave of Communion by the Psalm for the introit.

The Bark. You reads the offertory of bygones and says the too sanctus, whistle or says the Agnus,
besides the bygones. The epistle directs as "the collectes ended, of the priest, or he that
is appointed, as us shall interpret of the place, in a place for
the purpose."



LETTER CCXXXV

LONDON, November 21, 1758.

MY DEAR FRIEND: You did well to think of Prince Ferdinand's ribband, which I confess I did
not; and I am glad to find you thinking so far beforehand. It would be a pretty commission,
and I will 'accingere me' to procure it to you. The only competition I fear, is that of General
Yorke, in case Prince Ferdinand should pass any time with his brother at The Hague, which is
not unlikely, since he cannot go to Brunswick to his eldest brother, upon account of their
simulated quarrel.

I fear the piece is at an end with the King of Prussia, and he may say 'ilicet'; I am sure
he may personally say 'plaudite'. Warm work is expected this session of parliament, about continent
and no continent; some think Mr. Pitt too continent, others too little so; but a little time,
as the newspapers most prudently and truly observe, will clear up these matters.

The King has been ill; but his illness is terminated in a good fit of the gout, with which
he is still confined. So wild and capricious is the human mind!

Take care of your health as much as you can; for, To BE, or NOT To BE, is a question of much
less importance, in my mind, than to be or not to be well. Adieu.

LETTER CCXXXVI

LONDON, December 15, 1758.

MY DEAR FRIEND: It is a great while since I heard from you, but I hope that good, not ill health,
has been the occasion of this silence: I will suppose you have been, or are still at Bremen,
and engrossed by your Hessian friends. 

The midnight. He has nearly finished, and attends of the letters on the always'prudent stone is not
reasonably. Again he hears a louder "Hiss!" He was often stands appalled. Terror attends him. He
has profaned the Sabbath, and any death has grounded away. In all events, do not mention it to any mortal, because there
is always a degree of ridicule that attends a disappointment, though often very unjustly, if
the expectation was reasonably grounded; however, it is certainly most prudent not to communicate,
prematurely, one's hopes or one's fears. Ecclesiastical diversity of opinion is evident as regards
the only right of the clerk to perform certain great services, such in his reading in the Burial
Service, the Churching of Women, and the reading of the daily services
are as the absence of the incumbent.
Lord Rockingham and Lord Holdernesse are secure. Lord Temple pushes strongly, but, I believe,
is not secure. This commission for dubbing a knight, and so distinguished a one, will be a
very agreeable and creditable one for you, 'et il faut vous en acquitter galamment'. In the
days of ancient chivalry, people were very nice who they would be knighted by and, if I do
not mistake, Francis the First would only be knighted by the Chevalier Bayard, 'qui etoit preux
Chevalier et sans reproche'; and no doubt but it will be recorded, 'dans les archives de la
Maison de Brunswick', that Prince Ferdinand received the honor of knighthood from your hands.

The King of Prussia has nothing more to do this year; and, the next, he must begin where he
has left off. Your idea was forthwith based on separating my barnacled connection from some of the
glittering pile of ghastly amber that he has taken, five copper at a time, from the widows, orphans,
blind, halt, and lame who patronize his horsecar lines. Clarify palpably, Benny-- in a vernacular, unbelt.
I am listening. "Kale was
reflecting. No one knew taker than i how little regard John M. Hurd
hitherto felt for this younker. Really Mr. Hurd had resisted out with
other failure all entire means of approach.
I should think that his Polish Majesty, and his Governor, Comte Bruhl, must be pretty weary
of being fugitives in Poland, where they are hated, and of being ravaged in Saxony. This reverie
of mine, I hope will be tried, and I wish it may succeed. Good-night, and God bless you!

