As she knelt there in silence she heard the clock strike twelve, and the bells from the little
grey belfry of the church on the shore ring cheerily out into the night. Two years ago she
and her neighbours had watched the Old Year out in the kitchen below; and she could see, as
it were, Rhoda's pretty face again, and Joan's sleepy eyes, as they stood beside her singing
the New Year hymn, as soon as the clock had finished striking. The familiar verses of the hymn
ran through her mind till she came to the last but one--

  Oh! that each in the day of His coming may say,
        "I have fought my way through,
  I have finished the work Thou didst give me to do."

But Aunt Priscilla felt that she had not finished the work the Lord had given her to do for
Rhoda; she had not even begun what He had given her to do for little Joan. If Rhoda had sinned
against her, surely she had sinned against Christ.

With a heavy sob she rose from her knees and went downstairs. The house was empty, except that
Joan and the baby were sleeping in Rhoda's old bedroom; for all the rest had gone to keep the
watch-night in a chapel two miles or more away. The house-door was not fastened, and she had
only to lift the latch in order to open it. There was not the slightest sound from the threshold
outside where Rhoda was crouching; no moaning or sobbing, no movement of any kind. Aunt Priscilla
opened the door very gently and noiselessly.

"Rhoda!" she said, very pitifully.

But the girl did not answer her. She stooped down and raised her up against her shoulder. Oh!
what a small, light burden she seemed, no heavier than when she was a young child like Joan.
Aunt Priscilla lifted her quite easily in her arms, and carried her upstairs and laid her on
the bed. Then she struck a light, and, shading it with her hand, looked down on Rhoda's face,
as she had done many a time when she had been a sleeping child. The face was sharp and thin
and death-like; she looked like one who had perished from hunger and want. Was she really dead?

Little Joan was awakened suddenly from a sound sleep, and saw her aunt standing by her bedside,
looking to her dazzled eyes a very image of terror. The child uttered a shrill scream, and
threw both her arms round the baby, who was lying on a pillow beside her. She thought Aunt
Priscilla had come, knowing that everybody was gone out, to take away the Christmas child.
She must defend him with all her might.

"Get up, Joan," said Aunt Priscilla. "Rhoda is come home, and you must bring the little baby
to her."

She had not seen the child before; and now she stood looking down on the small sleeping face
with tears streaming from her eyes. She bent over him and Joan, and kissed them both with a
strange solemnity, as if she was making a vow to God. Then she lighted a candle, and bidding
Joan come as quickly as she could, she went away again; and in a few minutes Joan followed
her, carefully carrying the baby in her arms.

There was a pale, sunken face resting on Aunt Priscilla's pillow, and thin, wasted hands lying
on the counterpane. The eyelids were fast closed, and the lips clenched. And yet it was Rhoda's
face that Joan saw, and she called to her loudly and joyfully.

"See, Rhoda," she cried, "I found the little baby in the manger on Christmas morning!"

But Rhoda neither saw nor heard. Aunt Priscilla took the baby from Joan and laid it on Rhoda's
bosom, and placed her hand tenderly on Rhoda's head. Then it seemed to her that a flicker of
life moved over her set and death-like face.

"Sing, Joan, sing," said Aunt Priscilla, earnestly; and Joan, with her hands clasped, and her
eyes fastened upon Rhoda's dear face, sang in a loud, clear voice--

  Hark! the herald angels sing!

As she came to the last line, "God and sinners reconciled," Rhoda's lips moved, as if she was
repeating the words to herself, and her white eyelids slowly opened.

"Not to me!" she murmured.

"Oh! yes, yes, my darling!" cried Aunt Priscilla, falling on her knees--"you and me are reconciled,
and God 'ill be reconciled to us both. We are both sinners; but He'll forgive both you and me."

"And my baby," whispered Rhoda again, slowly moving one of her wasted arms to put it round
him, and gazing mournfully into her aunt's face.

"I'll take care of him," she answered; "God has sent him and Joan to me, and I'll take care
of them for His sake. I took care of you for my own sake, Rhoda."

There was a faint smile on Rhoda's face; and her eyelids closed again, as if she was too weak
to keep them open longer. By-and-by there came into the quiet room the sound of distant voices,
and Aunt Priscilla crept noiselessly downstairs and across the fold to the gate, to tell Nathan
what had happened and to bring them all into the house quietly.

That New Year's Day was as strangely happy a day to Joan as the Christmas Day before it had
been. She never left the room where Rhoda was lying; for Rhoda could not bear her to go out
of sight, and only seemed content while she could watch her nursing the baby, in her old-fashioned,
motherly manner. As Joan sat on a low rocking-chair, lulling him to sleep with snatches of
hymns, and soothing him tenderly if he began to cry, Rhoda's eyes shone with a tender light,
though the tears dimmed them at times. It was a peaceful, tranquil day, with few words spoken
by anyone. Aunt Priscilla's step had never been so quiet, or her voice so gentle; and she seemed
to Joan to be quite a different person.

When the short afternoon was over, and Nathan's work was done, he came upstairs to visit Rhoda.
She had been as dear to him as his own child; and as he took her small, withered hand in his,
his dim old eyes grew dark with tears.

"I saw you every day twice," she said, pausing often for breath; "I was hiding in the barn.
I hid myself on Christmas Eve among the straw--like Joan and me used to do for fun--and I laid
the baby asleep in the manger--for Joan to find; and I saw her come, and heard her sing--I
was watching her and you. And after that I couldn't go away; there was nowhere and nobody to
go to; and I stayed hiding in the barn. But I was very cold and miserable; I was frightened
of dying there in the barn. And in the night I came close to the house--to look for food--and
hearken if I could hear the baby. I'm not frightened or miserable now."

"Never mind the trouble now, Rhoda," said old Nathan. "Your aunt's forgiven you, and taken
you home again; and God, He'll forgive us all, and take us home again some day. Think o' getting
well and strong again, my poor lass."

"Not me," murmured Rhoda, faintly; "it's best for me to die, I know. Baby 'll be happier without
me. I couldn't play with him and make him merry. Joan 'ill be as a little mother to him, won't
you, Joan? I'm going to give him to you for your very own."

"For my very own!" repeated Joan, with wondering, wide-open eyes.

"Ay! if aunty will let me," answered Rhoda, smiling; "she 'll love the baby, I know, now she's
reconciled to me. Nathan, she forgives me, and God forgives me. I'm not unhappy any more."

"Rhoda, my lass," said old Nathan, "thy aunt 'ill never be happy no more, if thou dies. She's
pardoned thee with all her heart; and thou must try to live, and pay her back. Tell me where
thou 's been all this long while."

For a few minutes Rhoda lay silent, with a look of pain on her young, pale face.

"I dare n't ever have spoke to aunty," she murmured at last, "she's so bitter against marrying.
And so I ran away, and we were married at Bristol; and then we went to London; and Evan deserted
me before baby was born. I couldn't find him again anywhere in London; and it was a dreadful
place to stay in without money, and no home. He hadn't been good to me for a long while before
he left me. I've been a very wicked girl, but I've been sorely punished for it, Nathan; and
I'd rather die now, I think, than get well again."

"My poor lass!" answered old Nathan, pitifully, "say, 'Let it be as God pleases.'"

"Let it be as God pleases!" repeated Rhoda, in her faint, hollow voice.