Col. Jim Lane’s orderly boasted of the Cottonwood affair in his cups at a banquet one night.

The orderly was found dead soon after.

Quantrell told a friend that of the 32 who were concerned in the killing of his brother, only
two remained alive, and they had moved to California.

The fight at Carthage in July 1861, found Quantrell in Capt. Stewart’s company of cavalry.
I was there as a private in the state guard, fighting under Price. Then came Gen. Lyon’s fatal
charge at Wilson’s creek, and Gen. Price’s march on Lexington to dislodge Col. Mulligan and
his command.

Here Quantrell came into the public eye for the first time.  His red shirt stood out in the
first rank in every advance; he was one of the last when the men fell back.

After Lexington, Quantrell went with the command as far as the Osage river, and then, with
the consent of his officers, came up the Kansas line again to settle some old scores with the
Jayhawkers.

3. DRIVEN FROM HOME

I was only seventeen when Col. Mockbee gave a dancing party for his daughter at his home in
Harrisonville which was to terminate seriously for some of us who were there.

The colonel was a Southerner, and his daughter had the Southern spirit, too.  Probably this
was the reason that inspired the young Missouri militiamen who were stationed at Harrisonville
to intrude on the colonel’s party. Among them was Captain Irvin Walley, who, even though a
married man, was particularly obnoxious in forcing his attentions on the young women.  My sister
refused to dance with him, and he picked a quarrel with me.

“Where is Quantrell?” he asked me, with a sneer.

“I don’t know,” I answered.

“You are a liar,” he continued, and as he went down in a heap on the floor, he drew his pistol,
but friends came between us, and at their solicitation I went home and informed my father of
what had taken place. He told me to go down to the farm in Jackson county, and to keep away
from the conflict that Walley was evidently determined to force.  Next morning I started. 
That night Walley and a band of his scouts came to my father’s house and demanded that he surrender
me, on the ground that I was a spy, and in communication with Quantrell. Father denounced it
as a lie.

Though a slave-owner, father had never been in sympathy with secession, believing, as it turned
out, that it meant the death of slavery.  He was for the Union, in spite of his natural inclinations
to sympathy with the South.

A demand that I surrender was conveyed to my father by Col. Neugent, who was in charge of the
militia at Harrisonville, again charging that I was a spy.  I never doubted that his action
was due to the enmity of Walley.  My parents wanted me to go away to school.  I would have
liked to have stayed and fought it out, and although I consented to go away, it was too late,
and I was left no choice as to fighting it out.  Watch was being kept for me at every railroad
station, and the only school I could reach was the school of war close at home.

Armed with a shot-gun and revolver, I went out into the night and was a wanderer.

Instant death to all persons bearing arms in Missouri was the edict that went forth Aug. 30
of that year from Gen. John C. Fremont’s headquarters at St. Louis, and he declared that all
slaves belonging to persons in arms against the United States were free.  President Lincoln
promptly overruled this, but it had added to the bitterness in Missouri where many men who
owned slaves were as yet opposed to secession.

It was “hide and run for it” with me after that.  That winter my brother-in-law, John Jarrette,
and myself, joined Capt. Quantrell’s company. Jarrette was orderly sergeant. He never knew
fear, and the forty that then made up the company were as brave men as ever drew breath.

                              John Jarrette

