The epistles not in the prophetic style.

The Apostles not commanded to write or preach in particular places.

Different methods of teaching adopted by the Apostles.

CHAPTER XII - Of the true Original of the Divine Law, and wherefore Scripture is called Sacred,
and the Word of God. How that, in so far as it contains the Word of God, it has come down to
us uncorrupted.

CHAPTER XIII - It is shown, that Scripture teaches only very Simple Doctrines, such as suffice
for right conduct.

Error in speculative doctrine not impious - nor knowledge pious. Piety consists in obedience.

CHAPTER XIV - Definitions of Faith, the True Faith, and the Foundations of Faith, which is
once for all separated from Philosophy.

Danger resulting from the vulgar idea of faith.

The only test of faith obedience and good works.

As different men are disposed to obedience by different opinions, universal faith can contain
only the simplest doctrines.

Fundamental distinction between faith and philosophy - the key-stone of the present treatise.

CHAPTER XV - Theology is shown not to be subservient to Reason, nor Reason to Theology: a Definition
of the reason which enables us to accept the Authority of the Bible.

Theory that Scripture must be accommodated to Reason - maintained by Maimonides - already refuted
in Chapter vii.

Theory that Reason must be accommodated to Scripture - maintained by Alpakhar - examined.

And refuted.

Scripture and Reason independent of one another.

Certainty, of fundamental faith not mathematical but moral.

Great utility of Revelation.

Authors Endnotes to the Treatise.

CHAPTER XI - AN INQUIRY WHETHER THE APOSTLES WROTE THEIR EPISTLES AS APOSTLES AND PROPHETS,
OR MERELY AS TEACHERS; AND AN EXPLANATION OF WHAT IS MEANT BY AN APOSTLE.

(1) No reader of the New Testament can doubt that the Apostles were prophets; but as a prophet
does not always speak by revelation, but only, at rare intervals, as we showed at the end of
Chap. I., we may fairly inquire whether the Apostles wrote their Epistles as prophets, by revelation
and express mandate, as Moses, Jeremiah, and others did, or whether only as private individuals
or teachers, especially as Paul, in Corinthians xiv:6, mentions two sorts of preaching.

(2) If we examine the style of the Epistles, we shall find it totally different from that employed
by the prophets.

(3) The prophets are continually asserting that they speak by the command of God: "Thus saith
the Lord," "The Lord of hosts saith," "The command of the Lord," &c.; and this was their habit
not only in assemblies of the prophets, but also in their epistles containing revelations,
as appears from the epistle of Elijah to Jehoram, 2 Chron. xxi:12, which begins, "Thus saith
the Lord."

(4) In the Apostolic Epistles we find nothing of the sort. (5) Contrariwise, in I Cor. vii:40
Paul speaks according to his own opinion and in many passages we come across doubtful and perplexed
phrase; such as, "We think, therefore," Rom. iii:28; "Now I think," [Endnote 24],  Rom. viii:18,
and so on. (6) Besides these, other expressions are met with very different from those used
by the prophets. (1 Cor. vii:25), and so on in many other passages. (8) We must also remark
that in the aforesaid chapter the Apostle says that when he states that he has or has not the
precept or commandment of God, he does not mean the precept or commandment of God revealed
to himself, but only the words uttered by Christ in His Sermon on the Mount. (9) Furthermore,
if we examine the manner in which the Apostles give out evangelical doctrine, we shall see
that it differs materially from the method adopted by the prophets. (10) The Apostles everywhere
reason as if they were arguing rather than prophesying; the prophecies, on the other hand,
contain only dogmas and commands. (11) God is therein introduced not as speaking to reason,
but as issuing decrees by His absolute fiat. (12) The authority of the prophets does not submit
to discussion, for whosoever wishes to find rational ground for his arguments, by that very
wish submits them to everyone's private judgment. (13) This Paul, inasmuch as he uses reason,
appears to have done, for he says in 1 Cor. x:15, "I speak as to wise men, judge ye what I
say." (14) The prophets, as we showed at the end of Chapter I., did not perceive what was revealed
by virtue of their natural reason, and though there are certain passages in the Pentateuch
which seem to be appeals to induction, they turn out, on nearer examination, to be nothing
but peremptory commands. (15) For instance, when Moses says, Deut. xxxi:27, "Behold, while
I am yet alive with you, this day ye have been rebellious against the Lord; and how much more
after my death," we must by no means conclude that Moses wished to convince the Israelites
by reason that they would necessarily fall away from the worship of the Lord after his death;
for the argument would have been false, as Scripture itself shows: the Israelites continued
faithful during the lives of Joshua and the elders, and afterwards during the time of Samuel,
David, and Solomon. (16) Therefore the words of Moses are merely a moral injunction, in which
he predicts rhetorically the future backsliding of the people so as to impress it vividly on
their imagination. (17) I say that Moses spoke of himself in order to lend likelihood to his
prediction, and not as a prophet by revelation, because in verse 21 of the same chapter we
are told that God revealed the same thing to Moses in different words, and there was no need
to make Moses certain by argument of God's prediction and decree; it was only necessary that
it should be vividly impressed on his imagination, and this could not be better accomplished
than by imagining the existing contumacy of the people, of which he had had frequent experience,
as likely to extend into the future.

(18) All the arguments employed by Moses in the five books are to be understood in a similar
manner; they are not drawn from the armoury of reason, but are merely, modes of expression
calculated to instil with efficacy, and present vividly to the imagination the commands of
God. (19) However, I do not wish absolutely to deny that the prophets ever argued from revelation;
I only maintain that the prophets made more legitimate use of argument in proportion as their
knowledge approached more nearly to ordinary knowledge, and by this we know that they possessed
a knowledge above the ordinary, inasmuch as they proclaimed absolute dogmas, decrees, or judgments.
(20) Thus Moses, the chief of the prophets, never used legitimate argument, and, on the other
hand, the long deductions and arguments of Paul, such as we find in the Epistle to the Romans,
are in nowise written from supernatural revelation.

(21) The modes of expression and discourse adopted by the Apostles in the Epistles, show very
clearly that the latter were not written by revelation and Divine command, but merely by the
natural powers and judgment of the authors. (22) They consist in brotherly admonitions and
courteous expressions such as would never be employed in prophecy, as for instance, Paul's
excuse in Romans xv:15, "I have written the more boldly unto you in some sort, my brethren."

(23) We may arrive at the same conclusion from observing that we never read that the Apostles
were commanded to write, but only that they went everywhere preaching, and confirmed their
words with signs. (24) Their personal presence and signs were absolutely necessary for the
conversion and establishment in religion of the Gentiles; as Paul himself expressly states
in Rom. i:11, "But I long to see you, that I may impart to you some spiritual gift, to the
end that ye may be established."

(25) It may be objected that we might prove in similar fashion that the Apostles did not preach
as prophets, for they did not go to particular places, as the prophets did, by the command
of God. (26) We read in the Old Testament that Jonah went to Nineveh to preach, and at the
same time that he was expressly sent there, and told that he most preach. (27) So also it is
related, at great length, of Moses that he went to Egypt as the messenger of God, and was told
at the same time what he should say to the children of Israel and to king Pharaoh, and what
wonders he should work before them to give credit to his words. (28) Isaiah, Jeremiah, and
Ezekiel were expressly commanded to preach to the Israelites. Lastly, the prophets only preached
what we are assured by Scripture they had received from God, whereas this is hardly ever said
of the Apostles in the New Testament, when they went about to preach. (29) On the contrary,
we find passages expressly implying that the Apostles chose the places where they should preach
on their own responsibility, for there was a difference amounting to a quarrel between Paul
and Barnabas on the subject (Acts xv:37, 38). (30) Often they wished to go to a place, but
were prevented, as Paul writes, Rom. i:13, "Oftentimes I purposed to come to you, but was let
hitherto;" and in I Cor. xvi:12, "As touching our brother Apollos, I greatly desired him to
come unto you with the brethren, but his will was not at all to come at this time: but he will
come when he shall have convenient time."

(31) From these expressions and differences of opinion among the Apostles, and also from the
fact that Scripture nowhere testifies of them, as of the ancient prophets, that they went by
the command of God, one might conclude that they preached as well as wrote in their capacity
of teachers, and not as prophets: but the question is easily solved if we observe the difference
between the mission of an Apostle and that of an Old Testament prophet. (32) The latter were
not called to preach and prophesy to all nations, but to certain specified ones, and therefore
an express and peculiar mandate was required for each of them; the Apostles, on the other hand,
were called to preach to all men absolutely, and to turn all men to religion. (33) Therefore,
whithersoever they went, they were fulfilling Christ's commandment; there was no need to reveal
to them beforehand what they should preach, for they were the disciples of Christ to whom their
Master Himself said (Matt. X:19, 20): "But, when they deliver you up, take no thought how or
what ye shall speak, for it shall be given you in that same hour what ye shall speak." (34)
We therefore conclude that the Apostles were only indebted to special revelation in what they
orally preached and confirmed by signs (see the beginning of Chap. 11.); that which they taught
in speaking or writing without any confirmatory signs and wonders they taught from their natural
knowledge. (See I Cor. xiv:6.) (35) We need not be deterred by the fact that all the Epistles
begin by citing the imprimatur of the Apostleship, for the Apostles, as I will shortly show,
were granted, not only the faculty of prophecy, but also the authority to teach. (36) We may
therefore admit that they wrote their Epistles as Apostles, and for this cause every one of
them began by citing the Apostolic imprimatur, possibly with a view to the attention of the
reader by asserting that they were the persons who had made such mark among the faithful by
their preaching, and had shown bv many marvelous works that they were teaching true religion
and the way of salvation. (37) I observe that what is said in the Epistles with regard to the
Apostolic vocation and the Holy Spirit of God which inspired them, has reference to their former
preaching, except in those passages where the expressions of the Spirit of God and the Holy
Spirit are used to signify a mind pure, upright, and devoted to God. (38) For instance, in
1 Cor. vii:40, Paul says: But she is happier if she so abide, after my judgment, and I think
also that I have the Spirit of God." (39) By the Spirit of God the Apostle here refers to his
mind, as we may see from the context: his meaning is as follows: "I account blessed a widow
who does not wish to marry a second husband; such is my opinion, for I have settled to live
unmarried, and I think that I am blessed." (40) There are other similar passages which I need
not now quote.

(41) As we have seen that the Apostles wrote their Epistles solely by the light of natural
reason, we must inquire how they were enabled to teach by natural knowledge matters outside
its scope. (42) However, if we bear in mind what we said in Chap. VII. of this treatise our
difficulty will vanish: for although the contents of the Bible entirely surpass our understanding,
we may safely discourse of them, provided we assume nothing not told us in Scripture: by the
same method the Apostles, from what they saw and heard, and from what was revealed to them,
were enabled to form and elicit many conclusions which they would have been able to teach to
men had it been permissible.

(43) Further, although religion, as preached by the Apostles, does not come within the sphere
of reason, in so far as it consists in the narration of the life of Christ, yet its essence,
which is chiefly moral, like the whole of Christ's doctrine, can readily, be apprehended by
the natural faculties of all.

(44) Lastly, the Apostles had no lack of supernatural illumination for the purpose of adapting
the religion they had attested by signs to the understanding of everyone so that it might be
readily received; nor for exhortations on the subject: in fact, the object of the Epistles
is to teach and exhort men to lead that manner of life which each of the Apostles judged best
for confirming them in religion. (45) We may here repeat our former remark, that the Apostles
had received not only the faculty of preaching the history, of Christ as prophets, and confirming
it with signs, but also authority for teaching and exhorting according as each thought best.
(46) Paul (2 Tim. i:11), "Whereunto I am appointed a preacher, and an apostle, and a teacher
of the Gentiles;" and again (I Tim. ii:7), "Whereunto I am ordained a preacher and an apostle
(I speak the truth in Christ and lie not), a teacher of the Gentiles in faith and verity."
(47) These passages, I say, show clearly the stamp both of the apostleship and the teachership:
the authority for admonishing whomsoever and wheresoever he pleased is asserted by Paul in
the Epistle to Philemon, v:8: "Wherefore, though I might be much bold in Christ to enjoin thee
that which is convenient, yet," &c., where we may remark that if Paul had received from God
as a prophet what he wished to enjoin Philemon, and had been bound to speak in his prophetic
capacity, he would not have been able to change the command of God into entreaties. (48) We
must therefore understand him to refer to the permission to admonish which he had received
as a teacher, and not as a prophet. (49) We have not yet made it quite clear that the Apostles
might each choose his own way of teaching, but only that by virtue of their Apostleship they
were teachers as well as prophets; however, if we call reason to our aid we shall clearly see
that an authority to teach implies authority to choose the method. (51) If all the Apostles
had adopted the same method of teaching, and had all built up the Christian religion on the
same foundation, Paul would have had no reason to call the work of a fellow-Apostle "another
man's foundation," inasmuch as it would have been identical with his own: his calling it another
man's proved that each Apostle built up his religious instruction on different foundations,
thus resembling other teachers who have each their own method, and prefer instructing quite
ignorant people who have never learnt under another master, whether the subject be science,
languages, or even the indisputable truths of mathematics. (52) Furthermore, if we go through
the Epistles at all attentively, we shall see that the Apostles, while agreeing about religion
itself, are at variance as to the foundations it rests on. (53) Paul, in order to strengthen
men's religion, and show them that salvation depends solely on the grace of God, teaches that
no one can boast of works, but only of faith, and that no one can be justified by works (Rom.
iii:27,28); in fact, he preaches the complete doctrine of predestination. (54) James, on the
other hand, states that man is justified by works, and not by faith only (see his Epistle,
ii:24), and omitting all the disputations of Paul, confines religion to a very few elements.

(55) Lastly, it is indisputable that from these different ground; for
religion selected by the Apostles, many quarrels and schisms distracted the
Church, even in the earliest times, and doubtless they will continue so to
distract it for ever, or at least till religion is separated from
philosophical speculations, and reduced to the few simple doctrines taught
by Christ to His disciples; such a task was impossible for the Apostles,
because the Gospel was then unknown to mankind, and lest its novelty should
offend men's ears it had to be adapted to the disposition of
contemporaries (2 Cor. ix:19, 20), and built up on the groundwork most
familiar and accepted at the time. (56) Thus none of the Apostles
philosophized more than did Paul, who was called to preach to the Gentiles;
other Apostles preaching to the Jews, who despised philosophy, similarly,
adapted themselves to the temper of their hearers (see Gal. ii. 11), and
preached a religion free from all philosophical speculations. (57) How blest
would our age be if it could witness a religion freed also from all the
trammels of superstition!
 HOW THAT, IN S0 FAR AS IT CONTAINS THE WORD OF GOD,
 IT HAS COME DOWN TO US UNCORRUPTED.

(1) Those who look upon the Bible as a message sent down by God from Heaven to men, will doubtless
cry out that I have committed the sin against the Holy Ghost because I have asserted that the
Word of God is faulty, mutilated, tampered with, and inconsistent; that we possess it only
in fragments, and that the original of the covenant which God made with the Jews has been lost.
(2) However, I have no doubt that a little reflection will cause them to desist from their
uproar: for not only reason but the expressed opinions of prophets and apostles openly proclaim
that God's eternal Word and covenant, no less than true religion, is Divinely inscribed in
human hearts, that is, in the human mind, and that this is the true original of God's covenant,
stamped with His own seal, namely, the idea of Himself, as it were, with the image of His Godhood.

(3) Religion was imparted to the early Hebrews as a law written down, because they were at
that time in the condition of children, but afterwards Moses (Deut. xxx:6) and Jeremiah (xxxi:33)
predicted a time coming when the Lord should write His law in their hearts. (4) Thus only the
Jews, and amongst them chiefly the Sadducees, struggled for the law written on tablets; least
of all need those who bear it inscribed on their hearts join in the contest. (5) Those, therefore,
who reflect, will find nothing in what I have written repugnant either to the Word of God or
to true religion and faith, or calculated to weaken either one or the other: contrariwise,
they will see that I have strengthened religion, as I showed at the end of Chapter X.; indeed,
had it not been so, I should certainly have decided to hold my peace, nay, I would even have
asserted as a way out of all difficulties that the Bible contains the most profound hidden
mysteries; however, as this doctrine has given rise to gross superstition and other pernicious
results spoken of at the beginning of Chapter V., I have thought such a course unnecessary,
especially as religion stands in no need of superstitious adornments, but is, on the contrary,
deprived by such trappings of some of her splendour.

(6) Still, it will be said, though the law of God is written in the heart, the Bible is none
the less the Word of God, and it is no more lawful to say of Scripture than of God's Word that
it is mutilated and corrupted. (7) I fear that such objectors are too anxious to be pious,
and that they are in danger of turning religion into superstition, and worshipping paper and
ink in place of God's Word.

(8) I am certified of thus much: I have said nothing unworthy of Scripture or God's Word, and
I have made no assertions which I could not prove by most plain argument to be true. (9) I
can, therefore, rest assured that I have advanced nothing which is impious or even savours
of impiety.

(10) from what I have said, assume a licence to sin, and without any reason, at I confess that
some profane men, to whom religion is a burden, may, the simple dictates of their lusts conclude
that Scripture is everywhere faulty and falsified, and that therefore its authority is null;
but such men are beyond the reach of help, for nothing, as the pro verb has it, can be said
so rightly that it cannot be twisted into wrong. (11) Those who wish to give rein to their
lusts are at no loss for an excuse, nor were those men of old who possessed the original Scriptures,
the ark of the covenant, nay, the prophets and apostles in person among them, any better than
the people of to-day. (12) Human nature, Jew as well as Gentile, has always been the same,
and in every age virtue has been exceedingly rare.

(13) Nevertheless, to remove every scruple, I will here show in what sense the Bible or any
inanimate thing should be called sacred and Divine; also wherein the law of God consists, and
how it cannot be contained in a certain number of books; and, lastly, I will show that Scripture,
in so far as it teaches what is necessary for obedience and salvation, cannot have been corrupted.
(14) From these considerations everyone will be able to judge that I have neither said anything
against the Word of God nor given any foothold to impiety.

(15) A thing is called sacred and Divine when it is designed for promoting piety, and continues
sacred so long as it is religiously used: if the users cease to be pious, the thing ceases
to be sacred: if it be turned to base uses, that which was formerly sacred becomes unclean
and profane. (16) For instance, a certain spot was named by the patriarch Jacob the house of
God, because he worshipped God there revealed to him: by the prophets the same spot was called
the house of iniquity (see Amos v:5, and Hosea x:5), because the Israelites were wont, at the
instigation of Jeroboam, to sacrifice there to idols. (17) Another example puts the matter
in the plainest light. (18) Words gain their meaning solely from their usage, and if they are
arranged according to their accepted signification so as to move those who read them to devotion,
they will become sacred, and the book so written will be sacred also. (19) But if their usage
afterwards dies out so that the words have no meaning, or the book becomes utterly neglected,
whether from unworthy motives, or because it is no longer needed, then the words and the book
will lose both their use and their sanctity: lastly, if these same words be otherwise arranged,
or if their customary meaning becomes perverted into its opposite, then both the words and
the book containing them become, instead of sacred, impure and profane.

(20) From this it follows that nothing is in itself absolutely sacred, or profane, and unclean,
apart from the mind, but only relatively thereto. (21) Thus much is clear from many passages
in the Bible. (22) Jeremiah (to select one case out of many) says (chap. vii:4), that the Jews
of his time were wrong in calling Solomon's Temple, the Temple of God, for, as he goes on to
say in the same chapter, God's name would only be given to the Temple so long as it was frequented
by men who worshipped Him, and defended justice, but that, if it became the resort of murderers,
thieves, idolaters, and other wicked persons, it would be turned into a den of malefactors.

(23) Scripture, curiously enough, nowhere tells us what became of the Ark of the Covenant,
though there is no doubt that it was destroyed, or burnt together with the Temple; yet there
was nothing which the Hebrews considered more sacred, or held in greater reverence. (24) Thus
Scripture is sacred, and its words Divine so long as it stirs mankind to devotion towards God:
but if it be utterly neglected, as it formerly was by the Jews, it becomes nothing but paper
and ink, and is left to be desecrated or corrupted: still, though Scripture be thus corrupted
or destroyed, we must not say that the Word of God has suffered in like manner, else we shall
be like the Jews, who said that the Temple which would then be the Temple of God had perished
in the flames. (25) Jeremiah tells us this in respect to the law, for he thus chides the ungodly
of his time, "Wherefore, say you we are masters, and the law of the Lord is with us? (26) Surely
it has been given in vain, it is in vain that the pen of the scribes " (has been made) - that
is, you say falsely that the Scripture is in your power, and that you possess the law of God;
for ye have made it of none effect.

(27) So also, when Moses broke the first tables of the law, he did not by any means cast the
Word of God from his hands in anger and shatter it - such an action would be inconceivable,
either of Moses or of God's Word - he only broke the tables of stone, which, though they had
before been holy from containing the covenant wherewith the Jews had bound themselves in obedience
to God, had entirely lost their sanctity when the covenant had been violated by the worship
of the calf, and were, therefore, as liable to perish as the ark of the covenant. (28) It is
thus scarcely to be wondered at, that the original documents of Moses are no longer extant,
nor that the books we possess met with the fate we have described, when we consider that the
true original of the Divine covenant, the most sacred object of all, has totally perished.

(29) Let them cease, therefore, who accuse us of impiety, inasmuch as we have said nothing
against the Word of God, neither have we corrupted it, but let them keep their anger, if they
would wreak it justly, for the ancients whose malice desecrated the Ark, the Temple, and the
Law of God, and all that was held sacred, subjecting them to corruption.

