THE FINER GRAIN

By Henry James

1910

CONTENTS

     The Velvet Glove

     [Mora Montravers]

     A Round of Visits

     Crapy Cornelia

     The Bench of Desolation

"THE VELVET GLOVE"

I

HE thought he had already, poor John Berridge, tasted in their fulness the sweets of success;
but nothing yet had been more charming to him than when the young Lord, as he irresistibly
and, for greater certitude, quite correctly figured him, fairly sought out, in Paris, the new
literary star that had begun to hang, with a fresh red light, over the vast, even though rather
confused, Anglo-Saxon horizon; positively approaching that celebrity with a shy and artless
appeal. The young Lord invoked on this occasion the celebrity's prized judgment of a special
literary case; and Berridge could take the whole manner of it for one of the "quaintest" little
acts displayed to his amused eyes, up to now, on the stage of European society--albeit these
eyes were quite aware, in general, of missing everywhere no more of the human scene than possible,
and of having of late been particularly awake to the large extensions of it spread before him
(since so he could but fondly read his fate) under the omen of his prodigious "hit." It was
because of his hit that he was having rare opportunities--of which he was so honestly and humbly
proposing, as he would have said, to make the most: it was because every one in the world (so
far had the thing gone) was reading "The Heart of Gold" as just a slightly too fat volume,
or sitting out the same as just a fifth-act too long play, that he found himself floated on
a tide he would scarce have dared to show his favourite hero sustained by, found a hundred
agreeable and interesting things happen to him which were all, one way or another, affluents
of the golden stream.

The great renewed resonance--renewed by the incredible luck of the play--was always in his
ears without so much as a conscious turn of his head to listen; so that the queer world of
his fame was not the mere usual field of the Anglo-Saxon boom, but positively the bottom of
the whole theatric sea, unplumbed source of the wave that had borne him in the course of a
year or two over German, French, Italian, Russian, Scandinavian foot-lights. Paris itself really
appeared for the hour the centre of his cyclone, with reports and "returns," to say nothing
of agents and emissaries, converging from the minor capitals; though his impatience was scarce
the less keen to get back to London, where his work had had no such critical excoriation to
survive, no such lesson of anguish to learn, as it had received at the hand of supreme authority,
of that French authority which was in such a matter the only one to be artistically reckoned
with. If his spirit indeed had had to reckon with it his fourth act practically hadn't: it
continued to make him blush every night for the public more even than the inimitable feuilleton
had made him blush for himself.

This had figured, however, after all, the one bad drop in his cup; so that, for the rest, his
high-water mark might well have been, that evening at Gloriani's studio, the approach of his
odd and charming applicant, vaguely introduced at the latter's very own request by their hostess,
who, with an honest, helpless, genial gesture, washed her fat begemmed hands of the name and
identity of either, but left the fresh, fair, ever so habitually assured, yet ever so easily
awkward Englishman with his plea to put forth. There was that in this pleasant personage which
could still make Berridge wonder what conception of profit from him might have, all incalculably,
taken form in such a head--these being truly the last intrenchments of our hero's modesty.
He wondered, the splendid young man, he wondered awfully, he wondered (it was unmistakable)
quite nervously, he wondered, to John's ardent and acute imagination, quite beautifully, if
the author of "The Heart of Gold" would mind just looking at a book by a friend of his, a great
friend, which he himself believed rather clever, and had in fact found very charming, but as
to which--if it really wouldn't bore Mr. Berridge--he should so like the verdict of some one
who knew. His friend was awfully ambitious, and he thought there was something in it--with
all of which might he send the book to any address?

Berridge thought of many things while the young Lord thus charged upon him, and it was odd
that no one of them was any question of the possible worth of the offered achievement--which,
for that matter, was certain to be of the quality of all the books, to say nothing of the plays,
and the projects for plays, with which, for some time past, he had seen his daily post-bag
distended. He had made out, on looking at these things, no difference at all from one to the
other. Here, however, was something more--something that made his fellow-guest's overture independently
interesting and, as he might imagine, important. He smiled, he was friendly and vague; said
"A work of fiction, I suppose?" and that he didn't pretend ever to pronounce, that he in fact
quite hated, always, to have to, not "knowing," as he felt, any better than any one else; but
would gladly look at anything, under that demur, if it would give any pleasure. Perhaps the
very brightest and most diamond-like twinkle he had yet seen the star of his renown emit was
just the light brought into his young Lord's eyes by this so easy consent to oblige. It was
easy because the presence before him was from moment to moment, referring itself back to some
recent observation or memory; something caught somewhere, within a few weeks or months, as
he had moved about, and that seemed to flutter forth at this stir of the folded leaves of his
recent experience very much as a gathered, faded flower, placed there for "pressing," might
drop from between the pages of a volume opened at hazard.

He had seen him before, this splendid and sympathetic person--whose flattering appeal was by
no means all that made him sympathetic; he had met him, had noted, had wondered about him,
had in fact imaginatively, intellectually, so to speak, quite yearned over him, in some conjunction
lately, though ever so fleet-ingly, apprehended: which circumstance constituted precisely an
association as tormenting, for the few minutes, as it was vague, and set him to sounding, intensely
and vainly, the face that itself figured everything agreeable except recognition. He couldn't
remember, and the young man didn't; distinctly, yes, they had been in presence, during the
previous winter, by some chance of travel, through Sicily, through Italy, through the south
of France, but his Seigneurie--so Berridge liked exotically to phrase it--had then (in ignorance
of the present reasons) not noticed him. It was positive for the man of established identity,
all the while too, and through the perfect lucidity of his sense of achievement in an air "conducting"
nothing but the loudest bang, that this was fundamentally much less remarkable than the fact
of his being made up to in such a quarter now. That was the disservice, in a manner, of one's
having so much imagination: the mysterious values of other types kept looming larger before
you than the doubtless often higher but comparatively familiar ones of your own, and if you
had anything of the artist's real feeling for life the attraction and amusement of possibilities
so projected were worth more to you, in nineteen moods out of twenty, than the sufficiency,
the serenity, the felicity, whatever it might be, of your stale personal certitudes. You were
intellectually, you were "artistically" rather abject, in fine, if your curiosity (in the grand
sense of the term) wasn't worth more to you than your dignity. What was your dignity, "anyway,"
but just the consistency of your curiosity, and what moments were ever so ignoble for you as,
under the blighting breath of the false gods, stupid conventions, traditions, examples, your
lapses from that consistency? His Seigneurie, at all events, delightfully, hadn't the least
real idea of what any John Berridge was talking about, and the latter felt that if he had been
less beautifully witless, and thereby less true to his right figure, it might scarce have been
forgiven him.

His right figure was that of life in irreflective joy and at the highest thinkable level of
prepared security and unconscious insolence. What was the pale page of fiction compared with
the intimately personal adventure that, in almost any direction, he would have been all so
stupidly, all so gallantly, all so instinctively and, by every presumption, so prevailingly
ready for? Berridge would have given six months' "royalties" for even an hour of his looser
dormant consciousness--since one was oneself, after all, no worm, but an heir of all the ages
too--and yet without being able to supply chapter and verse for the felt, the huge difference.
His Seigneurie was tall and straight, but so, thank goodness, was the author of "The Heart
of Gold," who had no such vulgar "mug" either; and there was no intrinsic inferiority in being
a bit inordinately, and so it might have seemed a bit strikingly, black-browed instead of being
fair as the morning. Again while his new friend delivered himself our own tried in vain to
place him; he indulged in plenty of pleasant, if rather restlessly headlong sound, the confessed
incoherence of a happy mortal who had always many things "on," and who, while waiting at any
moment for connections and consummations, had fallen into the way of talking, as they said,
all artlessly, and a trifle more betrayingly, against time. He would always be having appointments,
and somehow of a high "romantic" order, to keep, and the imperfect punctualities of others
to wait for--though who would be of a quality to make such a pampered personage wait very much
our young analyst could only enjoy asking himself. There were women who might be of a quality--half
a dozen of those perhaps, of those alone, about the world; our friend was as sure of this,
by the end of four minutes, as if he knew all about it.

After saying he would send him the book the young Lord indeed dropped that subject; he had
asked where he might send it, and had had an "Oh, I shall remember!" on John's mention of an
hotel; but he had made no further dash into literature, and it was ten to one that this would
be the last the distinguished author might hear of the volume. Such again was a note of these
high existences--that made one content to ask of them no whit of other consistency than that
of carrying off the particular occasion, whatever it might be, in a dazzle of amiability and
felicity and leaving that as a sufficient trace of their passage. Sought and achieved consistency
was but an angular, a secondary motion; compared with the air of complete freedom it might
have an effect of deformity. There was no placing this figure of radiant ease, for Berridge,
in any relation that didn't appear not good enough--that is among the relations that hadn't
been too good for Berridge himself. He was all right where he was; the great Gloriani somehow
made that law; his house, with his supreme artistic position, was good enough for any one,
and to-night in especial there were charming people, more charming than our friend could recall
from any other scene, as the natural train or circle, as he might say, of such a presence.
For an instant he thought he had got the face as a specimen of imperturbability watched, with
wonder, across the hushed rattle of roulette at Monte-Carlo; but this quickly became as improbable
as any question of a vulgar table d'hote, or a steam-boat deck, or a herd of fellow-pilgrims
cicerone-led, or even an opera-box serving, during a performance, for frame of a type observed
from the stalls. One placed young gods and goddesses only when one placed them on Olympus,
and it met the case, always, that they were of Olympian race, and that they glimmered for one,
at the best, through their silver cloud, like the visiting apparitions in an epic.

This was brief and beautiful indeed till something happened that gave it, for Berridge, on
the spot, a prodigious extension--an extension really as prodigious, after a little, as if
he had suddenly seen the silver clouds multiply and then the whole of Olympus presently open.
Music, breaking upon the large air, enjoined immediate attention, and in a moment he was listening,
with the rest of the company, to an eminent tenor, who stood by the piano; and was aware, with
it, that his Englishman had turned away and that in the vast, rich, tapestried room where,
in spite of figures and objects so numerous, clear spaces, wide vistas, and, as they might
be called, becoming situations abounded, there had been from elsewhere, at the signal of unmistakable
song, a rapid accession of guests. At first he but took this in, and the way that several young
women, for whom seats had been found, looked charming in the rapt attitude; while even the
men, mostly standing and grouped, "composed," in their stillness, scarce less impressively,
under the sway of the divine voice. It ruled the scene, to the last intensity, and yet our
young man's fine sense found still a resource in the range of the eyes, without sound or motion,
while all the rest of consciousness was held down as by a hand mailed in silver. It was better,
in this way, than the opera--John alertly thought of that: the composition sung might be Wagnerian,
but no Tristram, no Iseult, no Parsifal and, no Kundry of them all could ever show, could ever
"act" to the music, as our friend had thus the power of seeing his dear contemporaries of either
sex (armoured they so otherwise than in cheap Teutonic tinsel!) just continuously and inscrutably
sit to it.

It made, the whole thing together, an enchantment amid which he had in truth, at a given moment,
ceased to distinguish parts--so that he was himself certainly at last soaring as high as the
singer's voice and forgetting, in a lost gaze at the splendid ceiling, everything of the occasion
but what his intelligence poured into it. This, as happened, was a flight so sublime that by
the time he had dropped his eyes again a cluster of persons near the main door had just parted
to give way to a belated lady who slipped in, through the gap made for her, and stood for some
minutes full in his view. It was a proof of the perfect hush that no one stirred to offer her
a seat, and her entrance, in her high grace, had yet been so noiseless that she could remain
at once immensely exposed and completely unabashed. For Berridge, once more, if the scenic
show before him so melted into the music, here precisely might have been the heroine herself
advancing to the foot-lights at her cue. The interest deepened to a thrill, and everything,
at the touch of his recognition of this personage, absolutely the most beautiful woman now
present, fell exquisitely together and gave him what he had been wanting from the moment of
his taking in his young Englishman.

It was there, the missing connection: her arrival had on the instant lighted it by a flash.
Olympian herself, supremely, divinely Olympian, she had arrived, could only have arrived, for
the one person present of really equal race, our young man's late converser, whose flattering
demonstration might now stand for one of the odd extravagant forms taken by nervous impatience.
This charming, this dazzling woman had been one member of the couple disturbed, to his intimate
conviction, the autumn previous, on his being pushed by the officials, at the last moment,
into a compartment of the train that was to take him from Cremona to Mantua--where, failing
a stop, he had had to keep his place. The other member, by whose felt but unseized identity
he had been haunted, was the unconsciously insolent form of guaranteed happiness he had just
been engaged with. The sense of the admirable intimacy that, having taken its precautions,
had not reckoned with his irruption--this image had remained with him; to say nothing of the
interest of aspect of the associated figures, so stamped somehow with rarity, so beautifully
distinct from the common occupants of padded corners, and yet on the subject of whom, for the
romantic structure he was immediately to raise, he had not had a scrap of evidence.

If he had imputed to them conditions it was all his own doing: it came from his inveterate
habit of abysmal imputation, the snatching of the ell wherever the inch peeped out, without
which where would have been the tolerability of life? It didn't matter now what he had imputed--and
he always held that his expenses of imputation were, at the worst, a compliment to those inspiring
them. It only mattered that each of the pair had been then what he really saw each now--full,
that is, of the pride of their youth and beauty and fortune and freedom, though at the same
time particularly preoccupied: preoccupied, that is, with the affairs, and above all with the
passions, of Olympus. Who had they been, and what? Whence had they come, whither were they
bound, what tie united them, what adventure engaged, what felicity, tempered by what peril,
magnificently, dramatically attended? These had been his questions, all so inevitable and so
impertinent, at the time, and to the exclusion of any scruples over his not postulating an
inane honeymoon, his not taking the "tie," as he should doubtless properly have done, for the
mere blest matrimonial; and he now retracted not one of them, flushing as they did before him
again with their old momentary life. To feel his two friends renewedly in presence--friends
of the fleeting hour though they had but been, and with whom he had exchanged no sign save
the vaguest of salutes on finally relieving them of his company--was only to be conscious that
he hadn't, on the spot, done them, so to speak, half justice, and that, for his superior entertainment,
there would be ever so much more of them to come.

II

It might already have been coming indeed, with an immense stride, when, scarce more than ten
minutes later, he was aware that the distinguished stranger had brought the Princess straight
across the room to speak to him. He had failed in the interval of any glimpse of their closer
meeting; for the great tenor had sung another song and then stopped, immediately on which Madame
Gloriani had made his pulse quicken to a different, if not to a finer, throb by hovering before
him once more with the man in the world he most admired, as it were, looking at him over her
shoulder. The man in the world he most admired, the greatest then of contemporary Dramatists--and
bearing, independently, the name inscribed if not in deepest incision at least in thickest
gilding on the rich recreative roll--this prodigious personage was actually to suffer "presentation"
to him at the good lady's generous but ineffectual hands, and had in fact the next instant,
left alone with him, bowed, in formal salutation, the massive, curly, witty head, so "romantic"
yet so modern, so "artistic" and ironic yet somehow so civic, so Gallic yet somehow so cosmic,
his personal vision of which had not hitherto transcended that of the possessor of a signed
and framed photograph in a consecrated quarter of a writing-table.

It was positive, however, that poor John was afterward to remember of this conjunction nothing
whatever but the fact of the great man's looking at him very hard, straight in the eyes, and
of his not having himself scrupled to do as much, and with a confessed intensity of appetite.
It was improbable, he was to recognise, that they had, for the few minutes, only stared and
grimaced, like pitted boxers or wrestlers; but what had abode with him later on, none the less,
was just the cherished memory of his not having so lost presence of mind as to fail of feeding
on his impression. It was precious and precarious, that was perhaps all there would be of it;
and his subsequent consciousness was quite to cherish this queer view of the silence, neither
awkward nor empty nor harsh, but on the contrary quite charged and brimming, that represented
for him his use, his unforgettable enjoyment in fact, of his opportunity. Had nothing passed
in words? Well, no misery of murmured "homage," thank goodness; though something must have
been said, certainly, to lead up, as they put it at the theatre, to John's having asked the
head of the profession, before they separated, if he by chance knew who the so radiantly handsome
young woman might be, the one who had so lately come in and who wore the pale yellow dress,
of the strange tone, and the magnificent pearls. They must have separated soon, it was further
to have been noted; since it was before the advance of the pair, their wonderful dazzling charge
upon him, that he had distinctly seen the great man, at a distance again, block out from his
sight the harmony of the faded gold and the pearls--to speak only of that--and plant himself
there (the mere high Atlas-back of renown to Berridge now) as for communion with them. There was not a single man working in
the fields, or a horse on the roads. Old spent the paths to the glistening mantilla over her eyes and
a saddle in the arm, as if they throw it to the bell that turned around far, far away, on the roofs
of the village. Chasing screaming at a crossroads a large group of children, on the green
of the slopes stood out red pants some soldiers who took advantage of the party for an hour
at home. Sounded In the distance, like a fabric that is torn, the shotgun against the bands
of swallows flew to one side to another in contradanza whimsical whistling sharply, as if rayasen
with glass wings of blue sky; buzzed about the clouds of mosquitoes ditches nearly invisible,
and a green farmhouse, under the arbor years, as an amalgam Men swarmed colored floral skirts,
colorful scarves. The sleepy rhythm of the guitars seemed lull a shrill bugle that would throw
all the ends of the valley, sleeping under the sun, the sounds of the Jack Moorish Valencia.

This peaceful landscape was the idealization of a hardworking and
happy Arcadia.

There was no There are bad people. Batiste desperezábase with pleasure, being dominated by
the quiet that seemed to pervade the environment. Rosetta, with the boys, had gone to dance farm,
his wife dozed under the sunshade, and he was walking from his home on the road, per piece
of uncultivated land which gave entrance to the car.

Standing on the bridge, was replying to the greetings of neighbors, laughing as they passed if
they were to witness a hilarious sight.

They were going to house all Cup, to get close to the famous "stubbornness" of the brothers
Pimento Terreròla, two bad heads as well as Pepeta's husband, who had also sworn I hate to work
and spent the entire day at the tavern. Including many rivalries arose and gambling, especially at this
time, it was when increased competition from the establishment.

The three bullies were pushing in brutality, eager to reach each of popularity over the other.

Batiste
had heard of this commitment that made people go to the famous tavern
as in Jubilee.

It was playing barter sit and drink more fluid without liquor, to see who was the last to fall.

Began
on Friday evening, and all three were still in their saddles rope on Sunday afternoon, playing
one-hundredth of barter, with the jug of liquor on zinc side table, leaving only the letters
to swallow the delicious sausages that they highly Cup fame by the
innkeeper knew how well preserved in oil.

The news spreading through the meadow, had come as a procession to all the nations of a league
round. The three handsome were not left alone for a moment. They had their fans, who were in
charge of occupying the fourth place in the game, and when night came when mass of spectators
retired to their barracks, quedábanse there watching how they played into the light of a chandelier
hanging from a poplar Cup was as ornery man, unable to endure the
heavy monotony of this bet, and so it was time to sleep he closed
his door, leaving the square to the players after renewing his supply
of liquor.

Many pretended indignation at the brutality of this "stubbornness",
but in the back of his mind escarabeajaba certain pride in the fact
that such men their neighbors.

Look at those youths iron garden breeds! Spirit passed through his body like water.

All around seemed to be staring at the tavern, spreading rapidly prodigious the news over the course of
the bet.

Had already drunk two pitchers, and as usual .... Since there were three ... and so firm. Copa
kept track of drinking. And people, in your choice, bet on any of the three contenders.

This struggle, which for two days the whole plain passionate and did
not seem even close to an end, reached the ears of Batiste.

He, sober man, unable to drink alcohol without feeling nauseous and headaches, could not hide
a wonder very close to the admiration of these brutes, that according to their assumptions, they
should have a stomach lined with tin.

He continued to look with envy to all who marched into the tavern.

Why had not He would go where others?

... I had never entered the house of Copa, formerly the antrum their enemies, but now his presence
justified extraordinary event .... In addition, What the devil! after so much work and so
good harvest, or an honest man could afford a bit of expansion.

And with a cry to his sleeping wife to warn her he was going, took the road from the tavern.

It
was like a human tingling mass of people filled the plaza in front
of house to Cup There were, body shirt, corduroy pants, black belt
and handkerchief bulging to the miter-shaped head, all men in the
outline.

The old were supported by thick staffs of Liria, yellow and black arabesques, showing young
people with bare sinewy arms and reddish, and as thin sticks moving
contrast between his fingers ash huge and calloused.

The huge poplars shaded around the tavern to the lively groups.

Batiste was set for the first time in detail in the famous tavern, with its white walls, blue painted
windows and doorways clad in colorful tiles from Manises.

It had two doors. One was the cellar, and leaves open could be seen between the two rows of huge
vats reached the ceiling, piles of empty and wrinkled skins, large
funnels and measures of zinc dyed red by the continued slide of the
liquid.

At the bottom of the piece was the heavy truck that rolled to the limits of the province to bring
the wine purchases. This room is dark and moist exhaled a breath alcohol the scent of wine,
which intoxicates the smell and sight disturbed, suggesting that land whole was to be covered
by a flood of wine.

Here were the treasures of Copa, which spoke with reverence and respect
all the drunks orchard.

He alone knew the secret of their barrels, through her, the old view staves, appreciated the
quality of the blood contained, was the high priest of this temple alcohol, and wanting to give
away to someone, he withdrew it, with as much devotion as if he had
been among custody hands, a vessel in which the liquid sparkled with
iridescent color of topaz crown of diamonds.

The other door was the tavern, which was open from one hour before pointing the day and at
night until ten, scoring on the road like a big black rectangle light red oil lamp hanging
above the counter.

They had the red brick walls and baseboards painted, at the height
of a man with a terminal floral border tiles.

From there to the ceiling the walls were dedicated the sublime art of painting, as Cup, though he
looked rough man, attentive only to at night would be filled the drawer of his desk, was a veritable
Maecenas. There brought a painter of the city, keeping it there for more than a week, and this
freak magnate patron of the arts had cost him, as he declared, about five dollars, more than
peseta less.

It was true that the hearing could not go anywhere without tripping over a masterpiece whose rabid
colors seemed happy to parishioners, encouraging them to drink. Blue trees on purple fields, yellow
horizons, bigger houses than the trees and people larger than houses,
hunters with shotguns appeared majos brooms and Andalusia, with his
blunderbuss on his legs, mounted on spirited horses that looked like
rats.

A wonder of originality that excites drinkers. And on the doors of the rooms, the artist,
alluding quietly to the establishment, had painted amazing 'Still Life' livers grenades as
open and bleeding, which seemed enormous pepper watermelon, balls
red yarn peaches trying to cross.

Many argued that the preponderance of the house on the other taverns in the orchard due to these
amazing decorations, and cursing the flies Cup dimmed so much beauty with black dots of their
outbursts.

Beside the front door was the bar, dirty and sticky, and behind him, the triple row of small drums, topped
by battlements of bottles containing the various and innumerable liquids facility. Of the beams,
greasy wings, hanging flags of sausages and black pudding, or small strings of red peppers
and fingers pointed as devil, and breaking the monotony of this set, some ham majestic red tassels
sausages.

The gift for delicate palates was in a murky glass cabinet at the counter. There the stars of
pastry, cakes of raisins, candied sugar rolls, the muffins, all with a certain twang dark and
suspicious spots denouncing old Murviedro and cheese, sweet, fresh, soft white, in pieces like
bread, distilling yet serum.

Moreover, he had his fourth Cup with a pantry, where they were in
large pots as monuments matches the green olives and onion sausages
preserved in oil, goods higher office.

At the end of the tavern opened the corral gate, huge, spacious, his half-dozen fires to cook the
paella. The white pillars holding a vine very old, which gave shade to such a vast space, and
stacked along a stretch of wall Zinc stools and tables in such prodigious quantities that seemed
to have foreseen the Cup invasion of his home in the entire valley.

Batiste, peering into the tavern, the owner noticed, big man bare-chested, but with a cap helmeted
ear-muffs in full summer on his face huge, plump, purple. Was first customer of his establishment:
he never went to bed happy if there was drunk three meals half jug of wine.

Therefore, without doubt, only if his attention is as sprawling bet brought to the whole valley.

His
desk was a vantage point from which, as a knowledgeable expert, watched drunkenness of his parishioners.
Let no one boast of handsome in his house, as before speaking and had seized him at a club
that was under the counter, kind of ace of clubs, which Pimento trembled and all the bullies
of the contour ... At home, no brawls. A kill himself, the way! And when he opened the blade
and stools flying at night Sunday, Cup, without a word or lose your temper, arose among the soldiers,
grab the arm to the bravest, took them in suspense until the road
and blocking the main door inside, quietly began to count the money
in the drawer before bedtime, while sounded out the blows and the
cries of the fight resumed.

Everything was subject to close a hour before the tavern, but inside it would never have any
justice task while He was behind the counter.

Batiste, after looking furtively at the door the bartender, who with
the help of Women and dispatched a servant to the parishioners, he
returned to the square.

There is added to a clique of old men arguing about which of the three holders showed bet more
serene.

Many farmers, tired of admiring the three handsome, played on their own or snacking forming a
circle around the tables. Circulating the jug, releasing its red trickle that a faint rose glu-glu
to fall into the open mouths obsequiábanse at each other with handfuls da peanuts and lupine.
Earthenware dishes served concave gives the tavern maids the Oily
black puddings, soft cheeses, olives games, with their liquid in which
floating scented herbs, and on the tables could be seen the new wheat
bread, rolls blonde cortex, showing inside brown crumb and a thick
succulent meal from the garden.

All these people, eating, drinking and gesticulating, he raised the same rumor that if the
square nest was occupied by a huge, floating vapor in the atmosphere
of alcohol, a suffocating fog frying oil and the penetrating smell
of wine, mingling with the perfume from neighboring fields.

Batiste finally approached the large circle surrounding the bet.

At first I saw nothing, but slowly, driven by the curiosity of those who were behind him, was
making his way through sweaty bodies and tight, to be first row. Some spectators were sitting on
the floor, his jaw resting on both hands, the nose on the edge of
the table and staring at the players, not to lose detail of the famous
event.

This was where most intolerable was the smell of alcohol. Seemed he impregnated breath and clothes
of all people.

Saw Pimento Batiste and his opponents sitting on wooden stools strong carob with the cards
before the eyes, the jug of liquor within reach of one hand and on
zinc the pile of corn that was equivalent to the many of the game.

In each play, some of the three grabbed the pitcher and drank it and went quietly to their partners,
which I would also steep with no less ceremony.

The most immediate audience watching the cards to every man over his shoulder to convince they played
well.

There was no care: the heads were solid, as if there is no drinker but water, no one was guilty
of neglect or made stupid plays.

And still the game, without necessarily those of the bet would stop talking with friends, joking
the end of the fight.

Pimento, on seeing Batiste, muttered a "Hey!"

Was intended as a greeting, and looked back to his letters.

Sereno, you may be pregnant, but her eyes were red, his eyes shone a spark blue and indecisive,
resembling the flame of alcohol, and his face was getting at times
a pallor.

The others were not better, but everyone laughed. The spectators, infected by the game, it passed
from hand to hand jugs paid to cleavage, and it meant a flood of
brandy, which, overflowing out of the tavern down as wave of fire
in all stomachs.

Batiste had to drink up, pressed by the circle. He did not like, but a man must prove all things,
and he again animated by the same considerations which led it to the tavern. When a parent
has worked and is in the barn harvest can well afford his bit of madness.

He felt heat in the stomach and head a delicious confusion. Beginning to get used to the atmosphere
of the tavern, finding more and more funny the "stubbornness."

Up Pimento was a remarkable man you ... his own way.

The players had finished the game number ... (Nobody knew how many) and discussed with friends
about the next meal. One of the Terreròla visibly lost ground. Two days spirit to all grass,
with two nights spent in turbid, began to weigh upon him.

It would closing his eyes and his head dropped heavily on his brother, who wanted revive him
with tremendous blows on the flanks, muted given below the table.

Pimento smiled slyly before this win. Already had one on the ground.

And discussing dinner with fans. Should be excellent, without fear of spending, however, he
had not to pay. A final dinner was worthy of the deed, then surely the same night bet would be completed
by beating another sibling.

And what glorious trumpet announcing in advance the triumph of Pimento, began to sound snoring
Terreròla the small, fallen face down on the table and close to collapse stool, as if all the
liquor he had in his stomach seek the ground by law seriously.

His brother talked about to slap wake, but spoke kindly Pimento as
a magnanimous victor.

And to wake him for dinner. And give little importance affecting to the imagination and his own
strength, he spoke of his lack of appetite as a great misfortune, after spending two days in the
place eating and drinking severely.

A friend ran to the tavern to bring a long string of chillies.

This would restore appetite. Slapstick caused great laughter, and Pimento, for more to impress
their fans infernal delicacy offered to Terreròla still holding firm, while he, in turn, I
was eating with the same indifference as if it were bread.

A murmur of admiration went round the circle. For each chili that ate the other, Pepeta husband eat
up three, and so ended the string, true demons Rosary red.

The gross must have shield on the stomach.

And continued firm, impassive, increasingly pale, numb and red eyes, asking if FIFA had already killed
a couple of chickens for dinner and giving instructions on how stews.

Batiste him with wonder and at the same time I felt a vague desire to leave. Began to fall afternoon,
in the square the voices grew louder, initiating the scandal every
night Sunday.

In addition, Pimento too often looked at him with angry eyes and strange drunken firm. But without
knowing why, he stood there, as if this show so new for he could more than his will.

Friends of the bully gave him a joke to see that after the chilli was tientos jar, not caring
if he imitated his enemy. "I should not drink so much: he was going to lose, and you missing
money to pay. Now was not as rich as in previous years, when owner of the land was content
to not collect the rent. "

Reckless said this without realizing the value of their words, and it was a painful silence,
as in the bedroom of a patient when it exposes the damaged part.

Speaking of leases and pay in the place where actors and spectators he had consumed liquor jugs!
...

Batiste felt uneasy. It seemed that suddenly passed by the environment somewhat hostile, threatening.
Without much effort had run away, but stayed, believing that all looked at him by stealth. Feared,
if he fled, anticipating the attack, arrested by the insult, and
hoping to pass unnoticed, stood as subjugated by an impression that
it was not scary, but If anything more than prudence.

Pimento's fans made him repeat the procedure in value every year Non-pay
to the owner of the land, and celebrated with great laughter, with
shivering of malignant joy, as slaves who rejoice at the misfortunes
of his master.

The relatively modest bully its glories. Every year at Christmas and San Juan, started for Valencia,
tole, Tole, to see to the owner of the land. Other had a good couple of chickens, the basket
of cakes, the basket of fruit to soften to lords, to accept the pay incomplete, crying and
promising to round out the added later. He only had words, and not many.

His mistress, a stately matron, received him in the dining room of
his house.

Walked near here daughters, a señoritingas always full of ribbons and bunting.

Doña Manuela put his hand to the book to remember the semesters that led back .... Pimento "He
came to pay, huh ?...»

And the sly, on hearing the question of Mrs. Pajares, always answered
the same: "No, ma'am, I could not pay because he was without a room.

Knew that This was credited to crook. Already said their grandfather, who was man of great to
know: Who chains have been made? For men. Do you pay? You're a good person. Can not pay? You are
a crook. "And after this brief course of rustic philosophy, appealed to the second argument, which was
removed from his belt a snuff thistles in black, with a huge knife and began to chop rolling
a cigarette.

The view of the knife shudder at the lady, was nervous,
and that is why the rogue cut the snuff slowly and takes to save,
always repeating the same arguments grandfather to explain his delay
in payment.

Girls in bows nicknamed him 'the chain', the mother felt
uneasy with the presence of this barbarian's infamous, smelling of
wine and talked gesticulating with the knife; and convinced at last
that there was nothing out of it, indicábale that was, but he felt
a deep joy to be upset and tried to prolong the interview. He even
came to say already paid could not save her visits. The lady would
forget the existence of their land. Ah, no, Dona Manuela! Pimento
was accurate observer of his duties, and a lessee should visit his
love at Christmas and San Juan, to show that if not why not pay ceased
to be your humble servant.

And there was two times a year, to stain
the floor with his muddy sandals and repeat strings are for men, making
pinwheels with the knife. It was a revenge slave, the beggar bitter
pleasure of appearing with their stinking rags in the middle of a
rich feast.

All the peasants laughed, commenting on the conduct of
Pimento to his mistress.

And the bully behavior supported with reasons.
Why should he pay for it? Let's see, why what ... Their land and cultivated
his grandfather. On the death of his father had divided the the brothers
to his taste, following the custom of the garden, without asking for
anything the owner. They were those who worked, what they did produce,
which left little by little life on their lumps. What word he
had found to say, he was afterward to reflect, must have little enough mattered; for he was
to have kept, of what then occurred, but a single other impression, that of her great fragrant
rustle beside him over the rest of the ample room and toward their nearest and friendliest
resource, the door by which he had come in and which gave directly upon a staircase. This independent
image was just that of the only other of his fellow-guests with whom he had been closely concerned;
he had thought of him rather indeed, up to that moment, as the Princess's fellow-Olympian--but
a new momentary vision of him seemed now to qualify it.

The young Lord had reappeared within a minute on the threshold, that of the passage from the
supper-room, lately crossed by the Princess herself, and Berridge felt him there, saw him there,
wondered about him there, all, for the first minute, without so much as a straight look at
him. He would have come to learn the reason of his friend's extraordinary public demonstration--having
more right to his curiosity, or his anxiety or whatever, than any one else; he would be taking
in the remarkable appearances that thus completed it, and would perhaps be showing quite a
different face for them, at the point they had reached, than any that would have hitherto consorted
with the beautiful security of his own position. So much, on our own young man's part, for
this first flush of a presumption that he might have stirred the germs of ire in a celestial
breast; so much for the moment during which nothing would have induced him to betray, to a
possibly rueful member of an old aristocracy, a vulgar elation or a tickled, unaccustomed glee.
His inevitable second thought was, however, it has to be confessed, another matter, which took
a different turn--for, frankly, all the conscious conqueror in him, as Amy Evans would again
have said, couldn't forego a probably supreme consecration. He treated himself to no prolonged
reach of vision, but there was something he nevertheless fully measured for five seconds--the
sharp truth of the fact, namely, of how the interested observer in the doorway must really
have felt about him. Rather disconcertingly, hereupon, the sharp truth proved to be that the
most amused, quite the most encouraging and the least invidious of smiles graced the young
Lord's handsome countenance--forming, in short, his final contribution to a display of high
social candour unprecedented in our hero's experience. No, he wasn't jealous, didn't do John
Berridge the honour to be, to the extent of the least glimmer of a spark of it, but was so
happy to see his immortal mistress do what she liked that he could positively beam at the odd
circumstance of her almost lavishing public caresses on a gentleman not, after all, of negligible
importance.

III

Well, it was all confounding enough, but this indication in particular would have jostled our
friend's grasp of the presented cup had he had, during the next ten minutes, more independence
of thought. That, however, was out of the question when one positively felt, as with a pang
somewhere deep within, or even with a smothered cry for alarm, one's whole sense of proportion
shattered at a blow and ceasing to serve. "Not straight, and not too fast, shall we?" was the
ineffable young woman's appeal to him, a few minutes later, beneath the wide glass porch-cover
that sheltered their brief wait for their chariot of fire. It was there even as she spoke;
the capped charioteer, with a great clean curve, drew up at the steps of the porch, and the
Princess's footman, before rejoining him in front, held open the door of the car. Y the
bully, closing the cabin, bed.

The Barret went straight to their fields and as a stray dog, he began
to laps around the block.

Closed! ... Closed forever!

Those walls had risen of his grandfather and renewed it every year. Even in the darkness stood
out the white with crisp whitewash her girls covered them three months earlier.

The corral, the barn, pens, were the work of his father, and that cap of straw, as high, so slender,
with two small crosses at the ends, had raised him again replacing the old, which was water
everywhere.

And his handiwork was also the edge of the well, the pillars of the arbor, weirs, above which
showed their plumes of flowers and carnations dompedro.

What everything was going to be owned by another, because, because they wanted the men? ...

He
reached into his belt matches the strip of cardboard that served
to light their cigars.

Wanted set fire to the straw roof. That takes all the devil! At last it was his, God well
knew, and could destroy your finances before you see it in the hands
of thieves.

But to go and burn down their old house felt a sense of horror, as if he were to he bodies of
all his ancestors, and threw the match down.

Continued to rage in his mind the desire for destruction, and got to meet her sickle in hand in
those fields that had been their tormentors.

Now the land would pay all together unpleasant because of their misfortunes!

Devastation

lasted for hours. Derrumbáronse to kick the vaults of rods for which climbed the green strands of
green beans and peas, beans fell items by the furious sickle, and rows of lettuces and cabbages
distance jumped sharp pulse steel, such as severed heads, spreading
in sheets around her hair .... No one would take advantage of your
work!

And so it remained until near dawn, cutting, crushing with crazy kicking, swearing loudly,
roaring curses, until exhaustion finally calmed his anger, and threw in a groove like a child
crying, thinking that the earth would henceforth be her bed eternal and only work begging on
the roads.

He was awakened by the first rays of the sun hurting your eyes and the happy chatter of birds
jumping around his head, drawing his lunch the remains of the destruction night.

He got up, numbed by fatigue and humidity. Pimento and his wife called him from further, inviting
him to take something. Barret answered them with contempt. "Thief! After who had remained with
his gun !...» and began the way to Valencia, trembling cold, not knowing where he went.

As he passed the tavern Cup, went into it.

Some roads in the neighborhood spoke to him to pity his misfortune, inviting him to drink, and
he hastened to accept. Wanted something about that cold that he had
gotten into the bones.

And he, as sober, he drank one after another two glasses of brandy, which fell like waves of
fire in his stomach weary.

His face colored, becoming then a deathly pallor, her eyes vetearon
blood.

The road was pitied him expressive and confident, almost as an be happy. I called my children,
assuring them that did not hurry for so little. I had not lost everything. He still had the best
of the house, the sickle of his grandfather, a gem that did not want to change or for fifty
bushels of good land.

And he drew from his girdle the curved steel, pure and bright: a tool for fine tuning and cutting
very subtle, that he said Barrett was in the air from a cigarette
paper.

Paid the road, and driving their beasts alejáronse to the city, filling the road of squeaky wheels.

The old man was still more than an hour in the bar, talking to himself, noting that the head
it was, until, disturbed by the harsh gaze of the owners, who guessed his condition, felt a vague impression
of shame and left without saying goodbye, walk unsteadily.

I could not take your memory a tenacious memory. I saw with my eyes closed a large vegetable garden
orange that was more than an hour away from Benimaclet and sea.

There was left him many times in their affairs, and he was now, to see if the devil was so good
did you encounter with the master, which was rare day not inspect your eyes miser the beautiful
trees one by one, as if he counted the oranges.

Came after two hours of walking, stopping many times to his body poise, that is balanced on the
legs unsafe.

Spirit had seized him. Did not know what purpose it got there, so far from the part of the garden
where they lived theirs, and eventually drop into a field hemp to the roadside. Soon his drunken snores
sounded painful between the green and upright stems.

When he awoke it was already late afternoon. I felt heaviness in the head and stomach weary.
Ears tingled, and her mouth pasted perceived taste horrible.

What was there near the garden of the Jew? What had gone so far? His honesty made him ashamed
primitive of this degradation, and tried to stand to flee. The pressure produced on its sickle
stomach cross belt gave him chills.

By joining stuck his head between hemp and saw a turn of the road to an old man I walked slowly,
wrapped in a layer.

Barret felt all his blood was up at once to the head, which reappeared
his drunkenness, and sat up, pulling the scythe .... And yet say the
devil is not good?

There was her man, the same he wanted to see from the previous day.

The old usurer had hesitated long before leaving home.

Something stung him Uncle Barret, the event was recent and the garden is treacherous. But the
fear in drawing its absence in the orange grove was stronger than their fears, and thinking that
the farm was away from the shed attached, stood in the road.

And stood to contemplate his garden, and laughed at the fear last jump of the bed when he saw Barrett
himself hemp, and it seemed a huge demon, red face, arms outstretched,
preventing any leakage, cornered at the edge of the ditch that ran
parallel to the road.

Believed to dream; crashed his teeth, his face green stood and dropped his coat, revealing a
dirty old coat and rolled up to his neck scarves. So great was his terror and confusion, until
he spoke in Castilian.

- Barret! My son - he gasped -. Everything was a joke, never mind. What happened yesterday was
to make it a little scared ... nothing more. You're going to continue on the land .... Spend
morning at home ... talk. Pay me as you see fit.

And bend your body, keeping you close the Barret. Intended to drain, run away the terrible scythe,
whose blade broke a ray of sunshine and blue skies reproduced.

As was the ditch behind him, could not find room to move, and threw the body behind seeks to cover
the clasped hands.

The farmer smiled like a hyena, showing his sharp teeth and poor whites.

- Liar! Liar! - Answered with a voice like a snore.

And moving the tool from side to side, seeking to wound site, preventing thin hands and desperate
to be put forward.

- But Barret!

My son! What is this?

... Put that gun ... do not play .... You are a man honest ... think of your daughters. I repeat
that was a joke. Come tomorrow and I will make the call .... Oooh! ...

It was a horrible roar, a cry of wounded beast.

Sickle tired of obstacles, had shot down one stroke of the clenched hands. Hung from the tendons
and skin, and red blood stump threw hard, splashing to Barret, who roared to receive in the face
of the hot spray.

Faltered the old man on his legs, but before falling to the ground, horizontally split sickle
against his neck, y. ..

Bang! complicated cutting sheath tissues, opened a deep cleft separating
the head near the trunk.

Don Salvador fell in the ditch, his legs were in the ditch, blown
by a kick slaughtered beef funeral.

Meanwhile, head buried in the mud, let go of all its blood in the deep gap and water stained red,
following its course with a gentle placid murmur glad the solemn silence of the afternoon.

Barrett remained planted on the bank like an idiot. Much blood was the guy thief! The canal,
the red, seemed more mighty.

Suddenly, the farmer, dominated by terror, began to run, as if afraid that the stream of blood
drown the overflow.

Before ending the day the news spread like a cannon shot that shook
the entire valley.

Have you seen hypocritical gesture, the glad silence with a town that hosts the ruler's death you
press?

... So cried the garden of Don Salvador's disappearance. Everyone guessed the Barret's hand, and
nobody spoke. The barracks had opened for him his last hiding; women would have hidden under
their skirts.

But the murderer wandered like a madman through the garden, avoiding
people, lying behind of the slopes, crouching under the bridges, escaping
across the fields, frightened by the barking of dogs, until the day
after the Civil Guard found him sleeping in a haystack.

For six months only spoke in the garden of Barret.

Sunday went like a pilgrimage for men and women to prison in Valencia
to watch through the bars to the poor "liberator" increasingly gaunt,
with sunken eyes and look worried.

Came the view of the process, and sentenced him to death.

The news made a deep impression on the plain, cures and mayors moving they stood for avoid such a
shame .... District One sitting on the scaffold!

As Barrett had been always docile, voting as the chief and ordered that passively obeying sent,
there were trips to Madrid for his life, and the pardon was timely.

The farmer left the jail made a mummy, and was taken to prison in Ceuta, for to die there a few years.

Disolvióse
his family, disappeared as a handful of straw in the wind.

Daughters, one after another, were leaving the families that had been collected and moved to
Valencia to earn a living as maids, and the poor old, tired to bother
with disease, left the hospital, dying shortly afterwards.

The people of the garden, with the ease with which all the world to
forget the misery of others, barely remembered now and again the terrible
tragedy of Barret, wondering what would be their daughters.

But nobody forgot the camps and barracks, remaining one and another
in the same state the day when justice drove the unfortunate settler.

Was this a tacit agreement of all the garden, a plot instinctive, in the preparation barely
saying a word, but even the trees and the roads seemed to get into it.

Pimento had said the day of the disaster. "To see who was the handsome dare to get into that land!
"

And all the people of the garden, even the women and children, seemed to answer with their eyes
of mutual understanding, "Yes, to see."

Parasitic plants, thistles, began to emerge from the cursed land that
Barret was kicked and stabbed with a sickle on the last night, as
if sensing that her fault die in prison.

The children of Don Salvador, some rich men as greedy as his father,
mired in creyéronse misery because the piece of land remained unproductive.

A

farmer resident of another district in the garden, the man who never missed handsome had enough
land, he felt tempted by the low price of the lease and to go through
with to all fields that inspired fear.

I was going to till the land with the gun on his shoulder, he and
his servants were laughing at the loneliness they let the neighbors,
the barracks were closed to his step, and followed them from afar
hostile glances.

Much the farmer watched, sensing an ambush, but it was useless caution, because one afternoon
when I returned alone to his house, when he still had not finished clearing their new fields,
you dropped it out two shotguns, but saw the attacker, and miraculously came unscathed from the
handful of BBs that he passed to his ears.

On the roads did not see anyone. Not a new track. He had been pulled from a ditch, ambushed the
shooter behind the Canar.

With enemies and could not fight, and the bully, on the same night,
gave the keys of the cabin to their masters.

You had to listen to the children of Don Salvador. Is it that there was no government or security
for property ... or anything?

Pimento was undoubtedly the author of the attack, which prevented the fields were cultivated and the
Civil Guard seized the check from the garden, taking him to prison.

But when it came to the statements, all paraded before the district court affirming Pimento's innocence,
but to those rustic rogues they could start a contradictory word.

All recited the same lesson. Even old ailing never left their barracks declared that day, at
the same time that they heard the two shots, was in a tavern Pimento Alboraya of carousing with
friends.

Nothing could be against these people and look stupid gesture candida, scratching his neck lied
with such aplomb, Pimento was released, and all the barracks came a sigh of triumph and satisfaction.

Since
the test was made: everyone would know in future that the cultivation
of those lands paid to the skin.

Did not give the greedy masters. Cultivate the land themselves, and sought laborers between people
suffered and submissive, smelling of rough wool and misery, low in search of work, driven from
hunger, from the ends of the province, from the border mountains
to Aragon.

In the garden he pitied the poor churros.

Woe! Iban to earn a wage, what fault theirs? And at night, when he retired with a hoe over his shoulder,
there was always a good soul who called from the door of the tavern's Cup were in, the guests
to drink and then we were talking in his ear with his face grim and parental stress and mild
as one who counsels a child to avoid the danger.

And the result was that the docile churros the next day instead of
going to the field, mass presented themselves to the owners of the
land.

- My lord, we come to pay us.

And they were frustrated all the arguments of the two bachelors, furious at being attacked in
their greed.

- My master - answered everything -: semos probes, but we have not encontrao life behind a
haystack.

Not only left the job, but passing notice to all his countrymen
to flee from earn a wage in the fields of Barret, and those who shun
the devil.

The landowners asked for protection even in the public
papers. And pairs of Civil Guard were to run the orchard, to bet on
the roads, to surprise gestures and conversation, always unsuccessfully.
Every day looked the same: women sewing and singing in the vines,
the men in the fields, bent, eyes on the ground, giving no rest to
the active arms; Pimento tending to the great man sticks to the league,
hoping to birds, or helping Pepeta to clumsy and lazy, in the tavern
a few old Cup sunbathing or playing trick. The landscape breathed
peace and honest bestiality was a Moorish Arcadia. But The guild did
not trust, no farmer wanted the land or even for free, and so the
masters had to abandon his efforts, allowing it to be covered with
weeds and that barrack is shut down, awaiting the arrival of a man
of good will can of shopping or work.

The garden trembled with pride
seeing how that wealth was lost and the heirs of Don Salvador became
the "holy."

It was a new and intense pleasure. Ever had to impose
the poor and the rich get below. And the drive seemed more delicious
bread, good wine, the lighter work, imagining tantrums of two greedy,
that with all his money had to suffer the rustic orchard fun of them.

In
addition, this spot of devastation and misery in the midst of the
meadow was used for the other owners were less demanding and taking
example in neighboring leases would not increase and it took up when
the semester to take effect.

The desolate fields were the talisman
that kept closely united to the huerta, continuous elbows touch, a
monument proclaiming its power over the owners, the miracle of solidarity
of misery against the laws and the wealth of those who are lords of
the land without working or sweat on their lumps.

All this confused
thought, made them believe that the day when the fields were Barret
cultivated the garden would suffer all kinds of misfortune. And do
not imagine, after a win ten years, he could enter another person
abandoned fields that Tomba, a blind pastor and talkative, that in
the absence of audience, recounted his daily exploits guerrilla dirty
his flock of sheep.

From here the gasps of amazement and anger expression
across the garden when Pimento from field to field and in barracks
hut, was making it known that the land had Barret and tenant, a stranger,
and that 'he' ... "Him!" - Whoever he was - was there with all his
family, settling without hesitation ... 'As if it was yours! "

III

Batiste,
to inspect the uncultivated land, there was said to work for a long
time.

Though this could not feel discouraged. He was an energetic
man, entrepreneur, seasoned to the struggle for win the bread. There
he was 'very long', as he said, and also comforted remembering trances
that had seen worse.

His past life was a continual change of profession,
always within the circle of misery rural, moving every year automatically,
without a finding for family well-being mean that was all his aspiration.

When
he met his wife, was young mill near Sagunto. Then working "Like a
wolf" - he said so - so that your home is not missing anything, and
God rewarded his diligence by sending each year a son, beautiful creatures
that seemed to be born with teeth according to the hurry that arose
in the chest maternal leave to ask for bread at all hours.

Result:
they had to leave the mill and devoted to roads, in search of greater
profits.

Bad luck pursued him. No one as he tended the cattle and
watch the march. Dead dream, never dared, as partners, to sleep in
the car, leaving the animals march guided by instinct. Watched at
all hours, was always close to nag front, avoiding the deep potholes
and missteps, and yet, if a truck poured was his, if an animal fell
ill because of the rains was surely Batiste in spite of paternal care
with which he rushed to cover the flanks of the beasts burlap trappings
fell just four drops. A young jibbering ape of one of the more formidable
sorts, or an ominous infant panther, smuggled into the great gaudy hotel and whom it might
yet be important he shouldn't advertise, couldn't have affected him as needing more domestic
attention. The great gaudy hotel--The Pocahontas, but carried out largely on "Du Barry" lines--made
all about him, beside, behind, below, above, in blocks and tiers and superpositions, a sufficient
defensive hugeness; so that, between the massive labyrinth and the New York weather, life in
a lighthouse during a gale would scarce have kept him more apart. Even when in the course of
that worse Thursday it had occurred to him for vague relief that the odious certified facts
couldn't be all his misery, and that, with his throat and a probable temperature, a brush of
the epidemic, which was for ever brushing him, accounted for something, even then he couldn't
resign himself to bed and broth and dimness, but only circled and prowled the more within his
high cage, only watched the more from his tenth story the rage of the elements.

In the afternoon he had a doctor--the caravanserai, which supplied everything in quantities,
had one for each group of so many rooms--just in order to be assured that he was grippé enough
for anything. What his visitor, making light of his attack, perversely told him was that he
was, much rather, "blue" enough, and from causes doubtless known to himself--which didn't come
to the same thing; but he "gave him something," prescribed him warmth and quiet and broth and
courage, and came back the next day as to readminister this last dose. He then pronounced him
better, and on Saturday pronounced him well--all the more that the storm had abated and the
snow had been dealt with as New York, at a push, knew how to deal with things. Oh, how New
York knew how to deal--to deal, that is, with other accumulations lying passive to its hand--was
exactly what Mark now ached with his impression of; so that, still threshing about in this
consciousness, he had on the Saturday come near to breaking out as to what was the matter with
him. The Doctor brought in somehow the air of the hotel--which, cheerfully and conscientiously,
by his simple philosophy, the good man wished to diffuse; breathing forth all the echoes of
other woes and worries and pointing the honest moral that, especially with such a thermometer,
there were enough of these to go round.

Our sufferer, by that time, would have liked to tell some one; extracting, to the last acid
strain of it, the full strength of his sorrow, taking it all in as he could only do by himself
and with the conditions favourable at least to this, had been his natural first need. But now,
he supposed, he must be better; there was something of his heart's heaviness he wanted so to
give out. He had rummaged forth on the Thursday night half a dozen old photographs stuck into
a leather frame, a small show-case that formed part of his usual equipage of travel--he mostly
set it up on a table when he stayed anywhere long enough; and in one of the neat gilt-edged
squares of this convenient portable array, as familiar as his shaving-glass or the hair-brushes,
of backs and monograms now so beautifully toned and wasted, long ago given him by his mother,
Phil Blood-good handsomely faced him. Not contemporaneous, and a little faded, but so saying
what it said only the more dreadfully, the image seemed to sit there, at an immemorial window,
like some long effective and only at last exposed "decoy" of fate. It was because he was so
beautifully good-looking, because he was so charming and clever and frank--besides being one's
third cousin, or whatever it was, one's early schoolfellow and one's later college classmate--that
one had abjectly trusted him. To live thus with his unremoved, undestroyed, engaging, treacherous
face, had been, as our traveller desired, to live with all of the felt pang; had been to consume
it in such a single hot, sore mouthful as would so far as possible dispose of it and leave
but cold dregs. Thus, if the Doctor, casting about for pleasantness, had happened to notice
him there, salient since he was, and possibly by the same stroke even to know him, as New York--and
more or less to its cost now, mightn't one say?--so abundantly and agreeable had, the cup would
have overflowed and Monteith, for all he could be sure of the contrary, would have relieved
himself positively in tears.

"Oh he's what's the matter with me--that, looking after some of my poor dividends, as he for
the ten years of my absence had served me by doing, he has simply jockeyed me out of the whole
little collection, such as it was, and taken the opportunity of my return, inevitably at last
bewildered and uneasy, to 'sail,' ten days ago, for parts unknown and as yet unguessable. It
isn't the beastly values themselves, however; that's only awkward and I can still live, though
I don't quite know how I shall turn round; it's the horror of his having done it, and done
it to me--without a mitigation or, so to speak, a warning or an excuse." That, at a hint or
a jog, is what he would have brought out--only to feel afterward, no doubt, that he had wasted
his impulse and profaned even a little his sincerity. The Doctor didn't in the event so much
as glance at his cluster of portraits--which fact quite put before our friend the essentially
more vivid range of imagery that a pair of eyes transferred from room to room and from one
queer case to another, in such a place as that, would mainly be adjusted to. It wasn't for
him to relieve himself touchingly, strikingly or whatever, to such a man: such a man might
much more pertinently--save for professional discretion--have emptied out there his own bag
of wonders; prodigies of observation, flowers of oddity, flowers of misery, flowers of the
monstrous, gathered in current hotel practice. Countless possibilities, making doctors perfunctory,
Mark felt, swarmed and seethed at their doors; it showed for an incalculable world, and at
last, on Sunday, he decided to leave his room.

II

Everything, as he passed through the place, went on--all the offices of life, the whole bustle
of the market, and withal, surprisingly, scarce less that of the nursery and the playground;
the whole sprawl in especial of the great gregarious fireside: it was a complete social scene
in itself, on which types might figure and passions rage and plots thicken and dramas develop,
without reference to any other sphere, or perhaps even to anything at all outside. The signs
of this met him at every turn as he threaded the labyrinth, passing from one extraordinary
masquerade of expensive objects, one portentous "period" of decoration, one violent phase of
publicity, to another: the heavy heat, the luxuriance, the extravagance, the quantity, the
colour, gave the impression of some wondrous tropical forest, where vociferous, bright-eyed,
and feathered creatures, of every variety of size and hue, were half smothered between undergrowths
of velvet and tapestry and ramifications of marble and bronze. The fauna and the flora startled
him alike, and among them his bruised spirit drew in and folded its wings. But he roamed and
rested, exploring and in a manner enjoying the vast rankness--in the depth of which he suddenly
encountered Mrs. Folliott, whom he had last seen, six months before, in London, and who had
spoken to him then, precisely, of Phil Bloodgood, for several years previous her confidential
American agent and factotum too, as she might say, but at that time so little in her good books,
for the extraordinary things he seemed to be doing, that she was just hurrying home, she had
made no scruple of mentioning, to take everything out of his hands.

Mark remembered how uneasy she had made him--how that very talk with her had wound him up to
fear, as so acute and intent a little person she affected him; though he had affirmed with
all emphasis and flourish his own confidence and defended, to iteration, his old friend. This
passage had remained with him for a certain pleasant heat of intimacy, his partner, of the
charming appearance, being what she was; he liked to think how they had fraternised over their
difference and called each other idiots, or almost, without offence. It was always a link to
have scuffled, failing a real scratch, with such a character; and he had at present the flutter
of feeling that something of this would abide. He hadn't been hurrying home, at the London
time, in any case; he was doing nothing then, and had continued to do it; he would want, before
showing suspicion--that had been his attitude--to have more, after all, to go upon. Mrs. Folliott
also, and with a great actual profession of it, remembered and rejoiced; and, also staying
in the house as she was, sat with him, under a spreading palm, in a wondrous rococo salon,
surrounded by the pinkest, that is the fleshiest, imitation Boucher panels, and wanted to know
if he now stood up for his swindler. She would herself have tumbled on a cloud, very passably,
in a fleshy Boucher manner, hadn't she been over-dressed for such an exercise; but she was
quite realistically aware of what had so naturally happened--she was prompt about Bloodgood's
"flight."

She had acted with energy, on getting back--she had saved what she could; which hadn't, however,
prevented her losing all disgustedly some ten thousand dollars. She was lovely, lively, friendly,
interested, she connected Monteith perfectly with their discussion that day during the water-party
on the Thames; but, sitting here with him half an hour, she talked only of her peculiar, her
cruel sacrifice--since she should never get a penny back. He had felt himself, on their meeting,
quite yearningly reach out to her--so decidedly, by the morning's end, and that of his scattered
sombre stations, had he been sated with meaningless contacts, with the sense of people all
about him intensely, though harmlessly, animated, yet at the same time raspingly indifferent.
They would have, he and she at least, their common pang--through which fact, somehow, he should
feel less stranded. It wasn't that he wanted to be pitied--he fairly didn't pity himself; he
winced, rather, and even to vicarious anguish, as it rose again, for poor shamed Bloodgood's
doom-ridden figure. But he wanted, as with a desperate charity, to give some easier turn to
the mere ugliness of the main facts; to work off his obsession from them by mixing with it
some other blame, some other pity, it scarce mattered what--if it might be some other experience;
as an effect of which larger ventilation it would have, after a fashion and for a man of free
sensibility, a diluted and less poisonous taste.

By the end of five minutes of Mrs. Folliott, however, he felt his dry lips seal themselves
to a makeshift simper. She could take nothing--no better, no broader perception of anything
than fitted her own small faculty; so that though she must have recalled or imagined that he
had still, up to lately, had interests at stake, the rapid result of her egotistical little
chatter was to make him wish he might rather have conversed with the French waiter dangling
in the long vista that showed the oriental café as a climax, or with the policeman, outside,
the top of whose helmet peeped above the ledge of a window. She bewailed her wretched money
to excess--she who, he was sure, had quantities more; she pawed and tossed her bare bone, with
her little extraordinarily gemmed and manicured hands, till it acted on his nerves; she rang
all the changes on the story, the dire fatality, of her having wavered and muddled, thought
of this and but done that, of her stupid failure to have pounced, when she had first meant
to, in season. She abused the author of their wrongs--recognising thus too Monteith's right
to loathe him--for the desperado he assuredly had proved, but with a vulgarity of analysis
and an incapacity for the higher criticism, as her listener felt it to be, which made him determine
resentfully, almost grimly, that she shouldn't have the benefit of a grain of his vision or
his version of what had befallen them, and of how, in particular, it had come; and should never
dream thereby (though much would she suffer from that!) of how interesting he might have been.
She had, in a finer sense, no manners, and to be concerned with her in any retrospect was--since
their discourse was of losses--to feel the dignity of history incur the very gravest. It was
true that such fantasies, or that any shade of inward irony, would be Greek to Mrs. Folliott.
It was also true, however, and not much more strange, when she had presently the comparatively
happy thought of "Lunch with us, you poor dear!" and mentioned three or four of her "crowd"--a
new crowd, rather, for her, all great Sunday lunchers there and immense fun, who would in a
moment be turning up--that this seemed to him as easy as anything else; so that after a little,
deeper in the jungle and while, under the temperature as of high noon, with the crowd complete
and "ordering," he wiped the perspiration from his brow, he felt he was letting himself go.
He did that certainly to the extent of leaving far behind any question of Mrs. Folliott's manners.
They didn't matter there--nobody's did; and if she ceased to lament her ten thousand it was
only because, among higher voices, she couldn't make herself heard. Poor Blood-good didn't
have a show, as they might have said, didn't get through at any point; the crowd was so new
that--there either having been no hue and cry for him, or having been too many others, for
other absconders, in the intervals--they had never so much as heard of him and would have no
more of Mrs. Folliott's true inwardness, on that subject at least, than she had lately cared
to have of Monteith's.

There was nothing like a crowd, this unfortunate knew, for making one feel lonely, and he felt
so increasingly during the meal; but he got thus at least in a measure away from the terrible
little lady; after which, and before the end of the hour, he wanted still more to get away
from every one else. He was in fact about to perform this manoeuvre when he was checked by
the jolly young woman he had been having on his left and who had more to say about the Hotels,
up and down the town, than he had ever known a young woman to have to say on any subject at
all; she expressed herself in hotel terms exclusively, the names of those establishments playing
through her speech as the leit-motif might have recurrently flashed and romped through a piece
of profane modern music. She wanted to present him to the pretty girl she had brought with
her, and who had apparently signified to her that she must do so.

"I think you know my brother-in-law, Mr. Newton Winch," the pretty girl had immediately said;
she moved her head and shoulders together, as by a common spring, the effect of a stiff neck
or of something loosened in her back hair; but becoming, queerly enough, all the prettier for
doing so. He had seen in the papers, her brother-in-law, Mr. Monteith's arrival--Mr. Mark P.
Monteith, wasn't it?--and where he was, and she had been with him, three days before, at the
time; whereupon he had said "Hullo, what can have brought old Mark back?" He seemed to have
believed--Newton had seemed--that that shirker, as he called him, never would come; and she
guessed that if she had known she was going to meet such a former friend ("Which he claims
you are, sir," said the pretty girl) he would have asked her to find out what the trouble could
be. But the real satisfaction would just be, she went on, if his former friend would himself
go and see him and tell him; he had appeared of late so down.

"Oh, I remember him"--Mark didn't repudiate the friendship, placing him easily; only then he
wasn't married and the pretty girl's sister must have come in later: which showed, his not
knowing such things, how they had lost touch. The pretty girl was sorry to have to say in return
to this that her sister wasn't living--had died two years after marrying; so that Newton was
up there in Fiftieth Street alone; where (in explanation of his being "down") he had been shut
up for days with bad grippe; though now on the mend, or she wouldn't have gone to him, not
she, who had had it nineteen times and didn't want to have it again. But the horrid poison
just seemed to have entered into poor Newton's soul.

"That's the way it can take you, don't you know?" And then as, with her single twist, she just
charmingly hunched her eyes at our friend, "Don't you want to go to see him?"

Mark bethought himself: "Well, I'm going to see a lady-----"

She took the words from his mouth. "Of course you're going to see a lady--every man in New
York is. But Newton isn't a lady, unfortunately for him, to-day; and Sunday afternoon in this
place, in this weather, alone-----!"

"Yes, isn't it awful?"--he was quite drawn to her.

"Oh, you've got your lady!"

"Yes, I've got my lady, thank goodness!" The fervour of which was his sincere tribute to the
note he had had on Friday morning from Mrs. Ash, the only thing that had a little tempered
his gloom.

"Well then, feel for others. Fit him in. Tell him why!"

"Why I've come back? I'm glad I have--since it was to see you!" Monteith made brave enough
answer, promising to do what he could. He liked the pretty girl, with her straight attack and
her free awkwardness--also with her difference from the others through something of a sense
and a distinction given her by so clearly having Newton on her mind. Yet it was odd to him,
and it showed the lapse of the years, that Winch--as he had known him of old--could be to that
degree on any one's mind.

III

Outside in the intensity of the cold--it was a jump from the Tropics to the Pole--he felt afresh
the force of what he had just been saying; that if it weren't for the fact of Mrs. Ash's good
letter of welcome, despatched, characteristically, as soon as she had, like the faithful sufferer
in Fiftieth Street, observed his name, in a newspaper, on one of the hotel-lists, he should
verily, for want of a connection and an abutment, have scarce dared to face the void and the
chill together, but have sneaked back into the jungle and there tried to lose himself. He made,
as it was, the opposite effort, resolute to walk, though hovering now and then at vague crossways,
radiations of roads to nothing, or taking cold counsel of the long but still sketchy vista,
as it struck him, of the northward Avenue, bright and bleak, fresh and harsh, rich and evident
somehow, a perspective like a page of florid modern platitudes. He didn't quite know what he
had expected for his return--not certainly serenades and deputations; but without Mrs. Ash
his mail would have quite lacked geniality, and it was as if Phil Blood-good had gone off not
only with so large a slice of his small peculium, but with all the broken bits of the past,
the loose ends of old relationships, that he had supposed he might pick up again. Well, perhaps
he should still pick up a few--by the sweat of his brow; no motion of their own at least, he
by this time judged, would send them fluttering into his hand.

Which reflections but quickened his forecast of this charm of the old Paris inveteracy renewed--the
so-prized custom of nine years before, when he still believed in results from his fond frequentation
of the Beaux Arts; that of walking over the river to the Rue de Marignan, precisely, every
Sunday without exception, and sitting at her fireside, and often all offensively, no doubt,
outstaying every one. How he had used to want those hours then, and how again, after a little,
at present, the Rue de Marignan might have been before him! 

And with the terrible majesty of the Latin father, absolute master of his children more likely to
instill fear to inspire affection, began to walk followed by the trembling Rosetta, which, when
approaching to his cabin, believed to march to a safe hiding.

He was wrong. The poor father had no more children at that time in the world that their harvest
diseased wheat, wrinkled, thirsty, calling him screaming for a drink to stay alive.

And in this thought while his wife arranged dinner. Rosetta went from side to side pretending
occupations to avoid attention, expecting at any moment the outbreak
of cholera paternal.

And Batiste was thinking in his field, sitting at the bedside dwarf, surrounded by his family
often, than to light the lamp looked greedily a steaming pot cod with potatoes.

The woman sighed still thinking about the fine, and certainly provided comparisons fabulous amount
they were going to tear and the relief with which he moved his entire family jaws.

Batiste just ate, occupied in contemplating the voracity of their own. Batistet, the eldest son
to be seized with feigned distraction of small crumbs. A Rosetta, fear gave him a ferocious
appetite.

Never Batiste then realized the burden on their backs. Those mouths that opened to swallow up the
meager savings of the family would be without food if came out to dry.

And all for what?

For the wickedness of men, because there are laws to harass workers honest .... Should not pass
through it. His family before anyone else. Was not ready to defend his men of the greatest dangers?
Did not he have a duty to keep them?

... Man was he able to become a thief to feed them.

Why should I submit, when it was not to steal, but the salvation
of his own, than it was all his own?

The image of the ditch at a short distance caudal dragging its whispering
to others was for him a martyr.

Enfurecíale life pass her door without being able to take advantage, because they wanted the
laws.

Suddenly he rose, like a man who adopts a resolution, and to do it tramples all:

- A water! To water!

The woman was frightened, realizing all the danger instantly so desperate resolution. "By God, Batiste!
... Would impose a higher fine, perhaps the court, offended by default, to take from the water
forever.

Had to think about .... It was better to wait. "

But Batiste had strong anger and phlegmatic phlegmatic men that when
they lose calm take long to recover.

- A water!

To water!

And Batistet, gleefully repeating the words of his father, took the hoe and left the barracks
followed by his sister and the kids.

Everyone wanted to take part in this study, which looked like a party.

The family felt the joy of a people to rebellion gains his freedom.

All went into the ditch, murmuring in the shade.

The vast plain lost in blue gloom cañares waving, as rumors and dark masses, and the stars twinkled
in black space.

Batiste went into the ditch to the knees, placing the barrier that had to stop water, while
his son, his wife and even his daughter attacked with spades the
bank, opening gaps where irrigation came in spurts.

The whole family felt a sense of freshness and wellbeing.

The earth sang with a sweet joy glu-glu which reached the heart to all of them. "Baby, baby,
poor thing!" And his feet sinking in the mud, Bent going side to side the field to see if the
water was everywhere.

Batiste roared with cruel satisfaction that produces the joy of the
forbidden.

What weight is removed off me ... Could the court now come and do what they wanted. Drank his
field; this was important.

And as his fine ear of a man accustomed to solitude thought he heard
a disturbing rumor in neighboring cañares, ran to the cabin, to return
immediately clutching his shotgun new.

With the gun on the arm and finger on the trigger, was more than an hour beside the barrier
of the canal.

The water did not go forward, poured in the fields of Batiste, who drank and drank the thirst of
dropsy.

Perhaps complained below, perhaps Pimento, warned as "atandador" haunted
by Nearby, outraged by the insolent attack upon the law.

But there was Batiste as a sentinel of his crop, desperate hero of the struggle for life, keeping
his men, who were moving about extending the irrigation field, ready to drop a shotgun at first
tried to take the course by restoring barrier water law.

His attitude was so fierce standing upright in the middle of the canal, could be glimpsed in
this black ghost to receive such resolution shots that show, nobody left the cañares immediate
and drank their fields for an hour without any protest.

And what's more strange: the following Thursday, the "atandador" did not appear before the Tribunal
de las Aguas.

The garden had learned that in the former barracks of Barrett the
only valuable was a double-barreled shotgun, purchased recently by
the intruder with passion African of Valencia, who are deprived of
bread glad to have behind the door of your house a new weapon that
will excite and inspire envy respect.

V

Every day at dawn, jumped out of bed Rosetta, daughter of Batiste,
and eye sleep-swollen, extending the arms with gentle stretches that
shook all slender blond body, he opened the door of the hut.

Screamed the pulley of the well, barking jumping for joy with her skirts the ugly tyke who spent
the night outside the barracks, and Rosetta, by the light of the latest stars, cast face and
hands for a bucket of cold water taken out of that hole round and dark, crowned on top by
thick tufts of ivy.

Then, to light the candle, paced the cabin preparing for the journey to Valencia.

Her mother still did not see it from the bed to make all sorts of directions. Could be the leftovers
from dinner with this and three sardines would find in the Vasari
had enough.

Beware of breaking the pot, like the other day. Ah! And do not forget to buy yarn needles and
espadrilles to the child. Destrozona creature! ... In the drawer of the table find the money.

And while the mother went for a walk on the bed, gently caressed by the warmth of the students,
proposing to sleep half an hour along with big Batiste, who was snoring loudly, Rosetta followed
their progress. Placed the food in a basket miserable, spent a comb through the a blond hair, as
if the sun had eaten its color, knotted handkerchief under beard,
and before going back with a caring older sister to see if the boys
were well covered, worried about the little people, sleeping on the
floor of his study, and lying in order from largest to smallest -
from the giant to the little Batistet barely spoke - it seemed a pipe
organ.

- Well, goodbye.

To nit! - Shouted the spirited girl from her arm through the handle of the basket, and closed
the door of the barracks, throwing the wrench at the bottom crack.

It was daylight. Under the steely light of dawn could be seen in the paths and roads laborious
parade going in one direction, attracted by the life of the city.

Graceful groups spent spinners with equal step, gracefully moving
arm right, cutting the air like an oar, and screaming all in chorus
each time a tall boy hailed from the neighboring fields with loving
words.

Rosetta walked alone into the city. The poor knew they were her friends, daughters and sisters of
the enemies of his family.

Several of them worked in his factory, and the poor blonde, more than
once, making gut heart, he had to defend to scrape clean.

Taking advantage of their carelessness, showed infect things in their food basket, break the pot
had done several times and not passed along to it in the workshop but would stop pushing for the
smoking pot where the bud was drowned, and devote wolverine calling
other similar praise to his family.

On the way all of them fled as a troop of furies, and only felt calm to be within the factory,
an old mansion near the market, whose facade, painted al fresco in the eighteenth century,
still preserved among certain groups chipping and cracking Pink legs and faces in profile
bed, remnants of medallions and mythological paintings.

Rosetta gives the whole family was the closest to his father: "a beast
for the job" as Batiste told himself.

The steam burning of pots where the cocoon subíasele drowning at the head, scald the eyes, but
in spite of this, remained firmly in place, looking at the bottom of the boiling water up the
loose ends of those flabby tissue capsules of a light caramel color,
into which death had scorched the worm laborious baba precious larvae
for the crime of making a rich dungeon for processing butterfly.

A reigned in the big house deafening roar and tiring work for the daughters of orchard, accustomed
to the calm of the vast plain, where the voice is transmitted to
huge distances.

Roared down the steam, giving snorting appalling that were transmitted by multiple pipes, rolling
pulleys and winches with a cacophony of a thousand devils, and if not sufficed much noise, the spinners,
as traditional custom, singing along with a nasal voice Our Father,
Hail Mary and the Gloria Patri, with the same tune of the named Rosario
of Aurora, procession parades through the paths of the garden on Sunday
at dawn.

This devotion did not prevent it riesen singing, and so on, between prayer and prayer, bespoken
to be insulted and four scratches to the output, because these girls
brunette, enslaved by the rigid tyranny that reigns in the family
and forced laborers of concern for inheritance to be always before
men with downcast eyes, there were real demons to be together and
without restraint, indulging their tongues drop everything heard on
the roads roads and farmers.

Rosetta was the most quiet and industrious. To not be distracted at work, he refrained from singing
and never caused strife. Had such an easy to learn all that he earned a few weeks three reals a day,
almost the maximum of wages, with great envy of the others.

While girls disheveled bands came from the factory to lunchtime to swallow the contents of their
pots in the immediate content, harassing men with eyes insolent to
say something and scream them after falsely outraged by undertaking
with them a shameless shooting, Rosetta stayed in a corner of the
shop sitting on the floor, with two or three young men who were of
another garden, on the right bank of the river and damned if they
were interested in the history of Barret and hatred of their peers.

In the first weeks, with some terror Rosetta saw the arrival of dusk,
and with it the departure time ...

Fearing companions who followed
the same road, entertained at the factory some time leaving them out
in front like a whirlwind, which departed outrageous laughter, fluttering
skirts, daring and smell dicharachos health of members harsh and hard.

Lazily walked through the streets of the city during the cold winter sunsets, shopping the orders
of his mother, stopping captivated by the shop windows began to glow, and finally, crossing the
bridge, got into the dark alleys of the slums to exit Alboraya the road.

So far so good. But after dark fell in the garden, with its mysterious noises, their black bodies
and alarming passing greeting her with a "Bona nit!" gloomy, and
began for her fear and chattering teeth.

Not intimidated by the silence and darkness.

As a good daughter of the field, was used to them. The certainty that they would find one on
the road would have given confidence.

In his terror, never thought, as her companions in death, or witches and ghosts. The were worried
that the living.

He recalled with horror stories of the garden some hearing in the factory: the fear of girls Pimento
and other jaques to those who gathered at the home of FIFA: thugs
who take advantage of darkness, pushing the girls alone at the bottom
of the shower dry or made them falling behind the barns.

And Rosetta, which was no longer innocent after its entry into the factory, let your imagination
run wild to the limits of what horrible, seeing killed by one of these monsters, his belly sliced
​​open and the inside as well as children they were talking about
the legends of the garden, to which a mysterious executioner drew
the shortenings, preparing miracle drug for the rich.

In the twilight of winter, dark and often wet, shivering saved Rosetta more than halfway. But
the cruelest trance, the most formidable obstacle was almost eventually close and your cabin,
and was the famous Tavern Cup

There was the cave of the beast.

This piece of road was the busiest and well lit.

Rumor vocals, bursts of laughter, guitar playing and songs to his lungs out through that door
red like a furnace mouth, which showed the way black a light box cut by agitation of grotesque shadows.
And yet, the poor weaver, to get near there, indecisive he stopped trembling, as the heroines
of the tales to the ogre's cave, ready to get across the fields to
be turned on and behind the building to sink into the ditch bordering
the road and crouched by slipping between the slopes, to anything
but to pass the red face to face bouncing the din of drunkenness and
brutality.

Finally he decided. An effort of will, as he is about to plunge from a height, and along the edge
of the ditch, with very light and balanced way that gives the portentous
fear, going fast at the tavern.

It was a breath, a white shadow that will stick by its speed in the murky eyes of the customers'
Cup

After the tavern, the girl ran and ran, thinking that someone was going to her achievements,
waiting felt in her lap the pull of a powerful claw.

Not calmed until you hear the dog barking in his hut, that ugly animal
that by antithesis doubtless was called Lucifer, and who received
it in the middle of the road with capers, licking their hands.

Never guess at home Rosetta past terrors on the road. The poor girl composing the gesture as he
entered the cabin, and to the questions of his mother, anxious, answered
by casting of courageous and said they come with some mates.

I did not want his father had to go out at night on the road to accompany
it.

Knew hatred of the neighborhood, the tavern Cup with quarrelsome
people inspired him scared.

And the next day returned to the factory, to suffer the same fears to return, animated only
hope that soon would come the spring, with its long afternoons the
twilight light, that would return to the barracks before darkening.

One night Rosetta experienced some relief. Near the city yet, went on the road a man he began to march
in step with her.

- Bona nit!

And while the spinner was on the high bank that bordered the road, the man walked by Basically,
in the deep furrows by the wheels of cars, stumbling blocks broken,
chipped pots and even glassware with which sighted hands wanted Remote
blind bumps in origin.

Rosetta was calm: he had seen his companion just waved. Tonet was the Tomba grandson of the pastor,
a good boy, who served as valet to butcher Alboraya and who mocked
the spinners to find on the road, delighting in seeing how blushed,
turning her face to the lower floor.

Chico more shy! ... He had no other relatives in the world that his grandfather worked up Sundays,
and so was going to Valencia to collect manure for the fields of
his master, as helped him in the killing of cattle and tilled the
ground or carried to the farms rich meat.

Malcolm everything to change him and his grandfather and go there in his ragged, old clothes
of his master. He did not smoke, had entered two or three times in his life at home in the Cup,
and Sunday, if he some free time, instead of standing in the square Alboraya squatted as others,
seeing the boys so to play the ball, found himself on the field, wandering aimlessly through the
tangled web of paths, and if he found a tree full of birds, there
gawk by the flutter and the shrieks of those bohemians of the garden.

People saw in him something of the extravagance of his grandfather mysterious pastor, and everyone
regarded as an unhappy, shy and docile.

The spinner was encouraged with his company. It was safer to leave it next to a man and more
if it was Tonet, who inspired confidence.

He spoke, asking where he came from, and the young man knew only vaguely
with his usual answer shyness, "D'there ... d'there ... "then paused,
as if those words cost him great effort.

Followed the path in silence, parting near the hut.

- Bona nit and greasy! - Said the girl.

- Bona nit! - And disappeared Tonet marching toward the village.

For it was a minor incident, a pleasant meeting, he had removed fear no more. And yet, Rosetta
had dinner that night and went to bed thinking of the grandson Tomba uncle.

I remembered the times she had met in the morning on the way, and even seemed Tonet tried to
always march in step with her, but something separate to avoid drawing
the attention of the stinging spinners .... On occasion, the head
sharply back, believed to have been surprised with his eyes fixed
on her ...

And the girl, as if spinning a cocoon, grab these loose
ends of his memory and pulled and pulled, remembering all of his life
that was related to Tonet, the first Once they saw it, and compassionate
sympathy for the fun of the spinners, he bore downcast and shy, as
if these harpies in band will inspire fear, then frequent encounters
on the road and the stares of the boy, who seemed to want to tell
her something.

To go to Valencia in the morning, saw him no, but at night, to start back to his cabin, he felt
no fear, in spite of the twilight was dark and rainy. Sensed the appearance of reassuring companion,
and actually met him at almost the same point the previous day.

It was as expressive as ever, "Bona nit!" And walked beside her.

Rosetta was more talkative. Where did it come?

What a coincidence, found two days! And he, trembling, as if the words cost him great effort,
he answered as usual: "D'there ... d'there ....»

The girl, who was actually as shy as he felt no desire to laugh but his embarrassment. She spoke
of her fear, the shocks during the winter went on the road; and Tonet, flattered by the service
they provide to the young man finally opened his mouth to tell it
often accompany her.

He always had his love affairs that required him to march through the meadow.

They said goodbye to the brevity of the previous day, but that night the girl stirred in bed,
restless, nervous, dreaming thousand foolish, seeing themselves in
a way black, very black, accompanied by a huge dog licked her hand
and had the same face Tonet. After out a wolf to bite, with a nose
vaguely reminiscent of the hated Pimento, and fought the two animals
with his teeth, and left his father with a club, and she cried as
if the back Soltan in the beatings he received his poor dog, and so
was yacketayakking your imagination, but always seeing the scenes
of his dream run over the grandson of Tomba, with blue eyes and her
face covered with a girl, blond hair, which was first sign of manhood.

It
is broken up, as if to come out of a delirium. That day was Sunday
and not go to factory. The sun came through the little window of her
bedroom and all the people of the cabin was and out of bed. Rosetta
began arranging to go to mass with her mother.

The devilish dream
was still upset. He felt another, with different thoughts, last night
as if it were a wall that divided his life into two parts.

Happy
as a bird sang, while he was removing clothes from the ark and placed
it on his bed still warm with the traces of his body.

Much liked
Sundays, with their freedom to get up later, their hours of idleness
and his little trip to Alboraya to hear Mass, but that Sunday was
better than the others, shone more sun, singing birds harder, went
through the little window air that smelled to glory: how to say! ...
in short, that the morning was for her something new and extraordinary.

It
had been taunted until then a female care for herself. Ten and six
years and who thought it was time to get ready. How stupid was to
laugh his mother was always calling her awkward! ...

And like a new
dress that I saw for the first time, Then he put over his head with
great care, if it were subtle lace, the skirt of calico every Sunday.
Then squeezed much the corset, and if you do not oppress one frame
still quite high shovels, a true corset styling, which cruelly crushed
chest rising, as in the Valencian garden is immodesty than singles
do not hide the seductive trappings of nature so that no sinfully
can mean in the future virgin motherhood.

For the first time in his
life was the spinner over a quarter of an hour before the middle span
mercury glass and painted pine frame that gave him his father had
a mirror in which to contemplate the face sections.

She was not much
he recognized, but were uglier to dozens in the garden. And without
knowing why, he delighted watching his eyes light green, mottled cheeks
of those freckles that the sun raises the skin toasted white blond
hair, with flaccid fineness of silk, the little nose of sheltering
a mouth quivering wings shaded the hair of a seasoned fruit, half
opened and the teeth showed a strong and equal, whiteness of milk,
which seemed to illuminate his face shine: a poor teeth.

His mother
had to wait. In vain the poor woman made haste, writhing impatiently
the cabin, as spurred by the bell sounded in the distance. Iban to
lose mass. While So calmly combing Rosetta, then undo your work soon
satisfied it. He hadn't so much minded the epithets Mrs. Folliott had applied, for they were to
the appropriator of her securities. As the appropriator of his own he didn't so much want to
brand him as--just more "amusingly" even, if one would.--to make out, perhaps, with intelligent
help, how such a man, in such a relation, could come to tread such a path: which was exactly
the interesting light that Winch's curiosity and sympathy were there to assist him to. He pleaded
at any rate immediately his advertising no grievance. "I feel sore, I admit, and it's a horrid
sort of thing to have had happen; but when you call him a brute and a hog I rather squirm,
for brutes and hogs never live, I guess, in the sort of hell in which he now must be."

Newton Winch, before the fireplace, his hands deep in his pockets, where his guest could see
his long fingers beat a tattoo on his thighs, Newton Winch dangled and swung himself, and threw
back his head and laughed. "Well, I must say you take it amazingly!--all the more that to see
you again this way is to feel that if, all along, there was a man whose delicacy and confidence
and general attitude might have marked him for a particular consideration, you'd have been
the man." And they were more directly face to face again; with Newton smiling and smiling so
appreciatively; making our friend in fact almost ask himself when before a man had ever grinned
from ear to ear to the effect of its so becoming him. What he replied, however, was that Newton
described in those flattering terms a client temptingly fatuous; after which, and the exchange
of another protest or two in the interest of justice and decency, and another plea or two in
that of the still finer contention that even the basest misdeeds had always somewhere or other,
could one get at it, their propitiatory side, our hero found himself on his feet again, under
the influence of a sudden failure of everything but horror--a horror determined by some turn
of their talk and indeed by the very fact of the freedom of it. It was as if a far-borne sound
of the hue and cry, a vision of his old friend hunted and at bay, had suddenly broken in--this
other friend's, this irresistibly intelligent other companion's, practically vivid projection
of that making the worst ugliness real. "Oh, it's just making my wry face to somebody, and
your letting me and caring and wanting to know: that," Mark said, "is what does me good; not
any other hideous question. I mean I don't take any interest in my case--what one wonders about,
you see, is what can be done for him. I mean, that is"--for he floundered a little, not knowing
at last quite what he did mean, a great rush of mere memories, a great humming sound as of
thick, thick echoes, rising now to an assault that he met with his face indeed contorted. If
he didn't take care he should howl; so he more or less successfully took care--yet with his
host vividly watching him while he shook the danger temporarily off. "I don't mind--though
it's rather that; my having felt this morning, after three dismal dumb bad days, that one's
friends perhaps would be thinking of one. All I'm conscious of now--I give you my word--is
that I'd like to see him."

"You'd like to see him?"

"Oh, I don't say," Mark ruefully smiled, "that I should like him to see me--!"

Newton Winch, from where he stood--and they were together now, on the great hearth-rug that
was a triumph of modern orientalism--put out one of the noted fine hands and, with an expressive
headshake, laid it on his shoulder. "Don't wish him that, Monteith--don't wish him that!"

"Well, but,"--and Mark raised his eyebrows still higher--"he'd see I bear up; pretty well!"

"God forbid he should see, my dear fellow!" Newton cried as for the pang of it.

Mark had for his idea, at any rate, the oddest sense of an exaltation that grew by this use
of frankness. "I'd go to him. Hanged if I wouldn't--anywhere!"

His companion's hand still rested on him. "You'd go to him?"

Mark stood up to it--though trying to sink solemnity as pretentious. "I'd go like a shot."
And then he added: "And it's probably what--when we've turned round--I shall do."

"When 'we' have turned round?"

"Well"--he was a trifle disconcerted at the tone--"I say that because you'll have helped me."

"Oh, I do nothing but want to help you!" Winch replied--which made it right again; especially
as our friend still felt himself reassuringly and sustainingly grasped. But Winch went on:
"You would go to him--in kindness?"

"Well--to understand."

"To understand how he could swindle you?"

"Well," Mark kept on, "to try and make out with him how, after such things--!" But he stopped;
he couldn't name them.

It was as if his companion knew. "Such things as you've done for him of course--such services
as you've rendered him."

"Ah, from far back. If I could tell you," our friend vainly wailed--"if I could tell you!"

Newton Winch patted his shoulder. "Tell me--tell me!"

"The sort of relation, I mean; ever so many things of a kind--!" Again, however, he pulled
up; he felt the tremor of his voice.

"Tell me, tell me," Winch repeated with the same movement.

The tone in it now made their eyes meet again, and with this presentation of the altered face
Mark measured as not before, for some reason, the extent of the recent ravage. "You must have
been ill indeed."

"Pretty bad. But I'm better. And you do me good"--with which the light of convalescence came back.

"I don't awfully bore you?"

Winch shook his head. "You keep me up--and you see how no one else comes near me."

Mark's eyes made out that he was better--though it wasn't yet that nothing was the matter with
him. If there was ever a man with whom there was still something the matter--! Yet one couldn't
insist on that, and meanwhile he clearly did want company. "Then there we are. I myself had
no one to go to."

"You save my life," Newton renewedly grinned.

VII

"Well, it's your own fault," Mark replied to that, "if you make me take advantage of you."
Winch had withdrawn his hand, which was back, violently shaking keys or money, in his trousers
pocket; and in this position he had abruptly a pause, a sensible, absence, that might have
represented either some odd drop of attention, some turn-off to another thought, or just simply
the sudden act of listening. His guest had indeed himself--under suggestion--the impression
of a sound. "Mayn't you perhaps--if you hear something--have a call?"

Mark had said it so lightly, however, that he was the more struck with his host's appearing
to turn just paler; and, with it, the latter now was listening. "You hear something?"

"I thought you did." Winch himself, on Mark's own pressure of the outside bell, had opened
the door of the apartment--an indication then, it sufficiently appeared, that Sunday afternoons
were servants', or attendants', or even trained nurses' holidays. It had also marked the stage
of his convalescence, and to that extent--after his first flush of surprise--had but smoothed
Monteith's way. At present he barely gave further attention; detaching himself as under some
odd cross-impulse, he had quitted the spot and then taken, in the wide room, a restless turn--only,
however, to revert in a moment to his friend's just-uttered deprecation of the danger of boring
him. "If I make you take advantage of me--that is blessedly talk to me--it's exactly what I
want to do. Talk to me--talk to me!" He positively waved it on; pulling up again, however,
in his own talk, to say with a certain urgency: "Hadn't you better sit down?"

Mark, who stayed before the fire, couldn't but excuse himself. "Thanks--I'm very well so. I
think of things and I fidget."

Winch stood a moment with his eyes on the ground. "Are you very sure?"

"Quite--I'm all right if you don't mind."

"Then as you like!" With which, shaking to extravagance again his long legs, Newton had swung
off--only with a movement that, now his back was turned, affected his visitor as the most whimsical
of all the forms of his rather unnatural manner. He was curiously different with his back turned,
as Mark now for the first time saw it--dangling and somewhat wavering, as from an excess of
uncertainty of gait; and this impression was so strange, it created in our friend, uneasily
and on the spot, such a need of explanation, that his speech was stayed long enough to give
Winch time to turn round again. The latter had indeed by this moment reached one of the limits
of the place, the wide studio bay, where he paused, his back to the light and his face afresh
presented, to let his just passingly depressed and quickened eyes take in as much as possible
of the large floor, range over it with such brief freedom of search as the disposition of the
furniture permitted. He was looking for something, though the betrayed reach of vision was
but of an instant. Mark caught it, however, and with his own sensibility all in vibration,
found himself feeling at once that it meant something and that what it meant was connected
with his entertainer's slightly marked appeal to him, the appeal of a moment before, not to
remain standing. Winch knew by this time quite easily enough that he was hanging fire; which
meant that they were suddenly facing each other across the wide space with a new consciousness.

Everything had changed--changed extraordinarily with the mere turning of that gentleman's back,
the treacherous aspect of which its owner couldn't surely have suspected. If the question was
of the pitch of their sensibility, at all events, it wouldn't be Mark's that should vibrate
to least purpose. Visibly it had come to his host that something had within the few instants
remarkably happened, but there glimmered on him an induction that still made him keep his own
manner. Newton himself might now resort to any manner he liked. His eyes had raked the floor
to recover the position of something dropped or misplaced, and something, above all, awkward
or compromising; and he had wanted his companion not to command this scene from the hearth-rug,
the hearthrug where he had been just before holding him, hypnotising him to blindness, because
the object in question would there be most exposed to sight Mark embraced this with a further
drop--while the apprehension penetrated--of his power to go on, and with an immense desire
at the same time that his eyes should seem only to look at his friend; who broke out now, for
that matter, with a fresh appeal. "Aren't you going to take advantage of me, man--aren't you
going to take it?"

Everything had changed, we have noted, and nothing could more have proved it than the fact
that, by the same turn, sincerity of desire had dropped out of Winch's chords, while irritation,
sharp and almost imperious, had come in. "That's because he sees I see something!" Mark said
to himself; but he had no need to add that it shouldn't prevent his seeing more--for the simple
reason that, in a miraculous fashion, this was exactly what he did do in glaring out the harder.
It was beyond explanation, but the very act of blinking thus in an attempt at showy steadiness
became one and the same thing with an optical excursion lasting the millionth of a minute and
making him aware that the edge of a rug, at the point where an arm-chair, pushed a little out
of position, over-straddled it, happened just not wholly to have covered in something small
and queer, neat and bright, crooked and compact, in spite of the strong toe-tip surreptitiously
applied to giving it the right lift Our gentleman, from where he hovered, and while looking
straight at the master of the scene, yet saw, as by the tiny flash of a reflection from fine
metal, under the chair. What he recognised, or at least guessed at, as sinister, made him for
a moment turn cold, and that chill was on him while Winch again addressed him--as differently
as possible from any manner yet used. "I beg of you in God's name to talk to me--to talk to me!"

It had the ring of pure alarm and anguish, but was by this turn at least more human than the
dazzling glitter of intelligence to which the poor man had up to now been treating him. "It's
you, my good friend, who are in deep trouble," Mark was accordingly quick to reply, "and I
ask your pardon for being so taken up with my own sorry business."

"Of course I'm in deep trouble"--with which Winch came nearer again; "but turning you on was
exactly what I wanted."

Mark Monteith, at this, couldn't, for all his rising dismay, but laugh out; his sense of the
ridiculous so swallowed up, for that brief convulsion, his sense of the sinister. Of such conivence
in pain, it seemed, was the fact of another's pain, and of so much worth again disinterested
sympathy! "Your interest was then----?"

"My interest was in your being interesting. For you are! And my nerves--!" said Newton Winch
with a face from which the mystifying smile had vanished, yet in which distinction, as Mark
so persistently appreciated it, still sat in the midst of ravage.

Mark wondered and wondered--he made strange things out. "Your nerves have needed company."
He could lay his hand on him now, even as shortly before he had felt Winch's own pressure of
possession and detention. "As good for you yourself, that--or still better," he went on--"than
I and my grievance were to have found you. Talk to we, talk to we, Newton Winch!" he added
with an immense inspiration of charity.

"That's a different matter--that others but too much can do! But I'll say this. If you want
to go to Phil Bloodgood----!"

"Well?" said Mark as he stopped. He stopped, and Mark had now a hand on each of his shoulders
and held him at arm's-length, held him with a fine idea that was not disconnected from the
sight of the small neat weapon he had been fingering in the low luxurious morocco chair--it
was of the finest orange colour--and then had laid beside him on the carpet; where, after he
had admitted his visitor, his presence of mind coming back to it and suggesting that he couldn't
pick it up without making it more conspicuous, he had thought, by some swing of the foot or
other casual manoeuvre, to dissimulate its visibility.

They were at close quarters now as not before and Winch perfectly passive, with eyes that somehow
had no shadow of a secret left and with the betrayal to the sentient hands that grasped him
of an intense, an extraordinary general tremor. To Mark's challenge he opposed afresh a brief
silence, but the very quality of it, with his face speaking, was that of a gaping wound. "Well,
you needn't take that trouble. You see I'm such another."

"Such another as Phil-----?"

He didn't blink. "I don't know for sure, but I guess I'm worse."

"Do you mean you're guilty-----?"

"I mean I shall be wanted. Only I've stayed to take it."

Mark threw back his head, but only tightened his hands. He inexpressibly understood, and nothing
in life had ever been so strange and dreadful to him as his thus helping himself by a longer
and straighter stretch, as it were, to the monstrous sense of his friend's "education." It
had been, in its immeasurable action, the education of business, of which the fruits were all
around them. Yet prodigious was the interest, for prodigious truly--it seemed to loom before
Mark--must have been the system. "To 'take' it?" he echoed; and then, though faltering a little,
"To take what?"

He had scarce spoken when a long sharp sound shrilled in from the outer door, seeming of so
high and peremptory a pitch that with the start it gave him his grasp of his host's shoulders
relaxed an instant, though to the effect of no movement in them but what came from just a sensibly
intenser vibration of the whole man. "For that!" said Newton Winch.

"Then you've known-----?"

"I've expected. You've helped me to wait." And then as Mark gave an ironic wail: "You've tided
me over. My condition has wanted somebody or something. Therefore, to complete this service,
will you be so good as to open the door?"

Deep in the eyes Mark looked him, and still to the detection of no glimmer of the earlier man
in the depths. The earlier man had been what he invidiously remembered--yet would he had been
the whole simpler story! Then he moved his own eyes straight to the chair under which the revolver
lay and which was but a couple of yards away. He felt his companion take this consciousness
in, and it determined in them another long, mute exchange. "What do you mean to do?"

"Nothing."

"On your honour?"

"My 'honour'?" his host returned with an accent that he felt even as it sounded he should never
forget.

It brought to his own face a crimson flush--he dropped his guarding hands. Then as for a last
look at him: "You're wonderful!"

"We are wonderful," said Newton Winch, while, simultaneously with the words, the pressed electric
bell again and for a longer time pierced the warm cigaretted air.

Mark turned, threw up his arms, and it was only when he had passed through the vestibule and
laid his hand on the door-knob that the horrible noise dropped. The next moment he was face
to face with two visitors, a nondescript personage in a high hat and an astrakhan collar and
cuffs, and a great belted constable, a splendid massive New York "officer" of the type he had
had occasion to wonder at much again in the course of his walk, the type so by itself--his
wide observation quite suggested--among those of the peacemakers of the earth. The pair stepped
straight in--no word was said; but as he closed the door behind them Mark heard the infallible
crack of a discharged pistol and, so nearly with it as to make all one violence, the sound
of a great fall; things the effect of which was to lift him, as it were, with his company,
across the threshold of the room in a shorter time than that taken by this record of the fact.
But their rush availed little; Newton was stretched on his back before the fire; he had held
the weapon horribly to his temple, and his upturned face was disfigured. The emissaries of
the law, looking down at him, exhaled simultaneously a gruff imprecation, and then while the
worthy in the high hat bent over the subject of their visit the one in the helmet raised a
severe pair of eyes to Mark. "Don't you think, sir, you might have prevented it?"

Mark took a hundred things in, it seemed to him--things of the scene, of the moment, and of
all the strange moments before; but one appearance more vividly even than the others stared
out at him. "I really think I must practically have caused it."

CRAPY CORNELIA

I

THREE times within a quarter of an hour--shifting the while his posture on his chair of contemplation--had
he looked at his watch as for its final sharp hint that he should decide, that he should get
up. His seat was one of a group fairly sequestered, unoccupied save for his own presence, and
from where he lingered he looked off at a stretch of lawn freshened by recent April showers
and on which sundry small children were at play. The trees, the shrubs, the plants, every stem
and twig just ruffled as by the first touch of the light finger of the relenting year, struck
him as standing still in the blest hope of more of the same caress; the quarter about him held
its breath after the fashion of the child who waits with the rigour of an open mouth and shut
eyes for the promised sensible effect of his having been good. So, in the windless, sun-warmed
air of the beautiful afternoon, the Park of the winter's end had struck White-Mason as waiting;
even New York, under such an impression, was "good," good enough--for him; its very sounds
were faint, were almost sweet, as they reached him from so seemingly far beyond the wooded
horizon that formed the remoter limit of his large shallow glade. The tones of the frolic infants
ceased to be nondescript and harsh--were in fact almost as fresh and decent as the frilled
and puckered and ribboned garb of the little girls, which had always a way, in those parts,
of so portentously flaunting the daughters of the strange native--that is of the overwhelmingly
alien--populace at him.

Not that these things in particular were his matter of meditation now; he had wanted, at the
end of his walk, to sit apart a little and think--and had been doing that for twenty minutes,
even though as yet to no break in the charm of procrastination. But he had looked without seeing
and listened without hearing: all that had been positive for him was that he hadn't failed
vaguely to feel. He had felt in the first place, and he continued to feel--yes, at forty-eight
quite as much as at any point of the supposed reign of younger intensities--the great spirit
of the air, the fine sense of the season, the supreme appeal of Nature, he might have said,
to his time of life; quite as if she, easy, indulgent, indifferent, cynical Power, were offering
him the last chance it would rest with his wit or his blood to embrace. Then with that he had
been entertaining, to the point and with the prolonged consequence of accepted immobilization,
the certitude that if he did call on Mrs. Worthingham and find her at home he couldn't in justice
to himself not put to her the question that had lapsed the other time, the last time, through
the irritating and persistent, even if accidental, presence of others. What friends she had--the
people who so stupidly, so wantonly stuck! It seems that
Siddhartha is the embodiment, the avatar of love, weeping and regrets having created life;
itself suffering as every life has suffered, and longs to roll back the life to nothing for
the suffering ends.

Ephemeral .-- GOPA's life: the suffering that emerges should be too.

PRATYAPATI .-- No, Gopa, life has no end. Death is change, no end.

Entrained in the current life, so moved, but not of essence, which
always comes back reborn or for pain.

In this sense, the gods, the asuras, and men are equally immortal.

GOPA .-- And there is no happy?

PRATYAPATI .-- None. Unhappiness
is the first condition of life.

GOPA .-- Why Love created life, and
unhappiness with her?

The sound he at last most wittingly distinguished in his nook was the single deep note of half-past
five borne to him from some high-perched public clock. He finally got up with the sense that
the time from then on ought at least to be felt as sacred to him. At this juncture it was--while
he stood there shaking his garments, settling his hat, his necktie, his shirt-cuffs, fixing
the high polish of his fine shoes as if for some reflection in it of his straight and spare
and grizzled, his refined and trimmed and dressed, his altogether distinguished person, that
of a gentleman abundantly settled, but of a bachelor markedly nervous--at this crisis it was,
doubtless, that he at once most measured and least resented his predicament. If he should go
he would almost to a certainty find her, and if he should find her he would almost to a certainty
come to the point. He wouldn't put it off again--there was that high consideration for him
of justice at least to himself. He had never yet denied himself anything so apparently fraught
with possibilities as the idea of proposing to Mrs. Worthingham--never yet, in other words,
denied himself anything he had so distinctly wanted to do; and the results of that wisdom had
remained for him precisely the precious parts of experience. Counting only the offers of his
honourable hand, these had been on three remembered occasions at least the consequence of an
impulse as sharp and a self-respect as reasoned; a self-respect that hadn't in the least suffered,
moreover, from the failure of each appeal. He had been met in the three cases--the only ones
he at all compared with his present case--by the frank confession that he didn't somehow, charming
as he was, cause himself to be superstitiously believed in; and the lapse of life, afterward,
had cleared up many doubts.

It wouldn't have done, he eventually, he lucidly saw, each time he had been refused; and the
candour of his nature was such that he could live to think of these very passages as a proof
of how right he had been--right, that is, to have put himself forward always, by the happiest
instinct, only in impossible conditions. He had the happy consciousness of having exposed the
important question to the crucial test, and of having escaped, by that persistent logic, a
grave mistake. What better proof of his escape than the fact that he was now free to renew
the all-interesting inquiry, and should be exactly, about to do so in different and better
conditions? The conditions were better by as much more--as much more of his career and character,
of his situation, his reputation he could even have called it, of his knowledge of life, of
his somewhat extended means, of his possibly augmented charm, of his certainly improved mind
and temper--as was involved in the actual impending settlement. Once he had got into motion,
once he had crossed the Park and passed out of it, entering, with very little space to traverse,
one of the short new streets that abutted on its east side, his step became that of a man young
enough to find confidence, quite to find felicity, in the sense, in almost any sense, of action.
He could still enjoy almost anything, absolutely an unpleasant thing, in default of a better,
that might still remind him he wasn't so old. The standing newness of everything about him
would, it was true, have weakened this cheer by too much presuming on it; Mrs. Worthingham's
house, before which he stopped, had that gloss of new money, that glare of a piece fresh from
the mint and ringing for the first time on any counter, which seems to claim for it, in any
transaction, something more than the "face" value.

This could but be yet more the case for the impression of the observer introduced and committed.
On our friend's part I mean, after his admission and while still in the hall, the sense of
the general shining immediacy, of the still unhushed clamour of the shock, was perhaps stronger
than he had ever known it. That broke out from every corner as the high pitch of interest,
and with a candour that--no, certainly--he had never seen equalled; every particular expensive
object shrieking at him in its artless pride that it had just "come home." He met the whole
vision with something of the grimace produced on persons without goggles by the passage from
a shelter to a blinding light; and if he had--by a perfectly possible chance--been "snap-shotted"
on the spot, would have struck you as showing for his first tribute to the temple of Mrs. Worthingham's
charming presence a scowl almost of anguish. He wasn't constitutionally, it may at once be
explained for him, a goggled person; and he was condemned, in New York, to this frequent violence
of transition--having to reckon with it whenever he went out, as who should say, from himself.
The high pitch of interest, to his taste, was the pitch of history, the pitch of acquired and
earned suggestion, the pitch of association, in a word; so that he lived by preference, incontestably,
if not in a rich gloom, which would have been beyond his means and spirits, at least amid objects
and images that confessed to the tone of time. I was going to sunrise. In the red furrows larks flew with the joy of
living another day, and the naughty sparrows perched on the windows yet closed, pecking wood,
telling the inside with its cry of drifters used to cadge 'Up, lazy! To work the land, to eat us !...»

In
Toni's shack, known all around for Pimento, had just entered his
wife Pepeta, an animated creature, whitish and flabby flesh in his
youth, undermined by anemia, which was nevertheless the hardest working
female entire garden.

At dawn he was back in the market.

Got up at three, loaded with baskets Toni picked vegetables to close the night before between
oaths and vows against a naughty life in which both have to work, and to grope for the path,
guided in Dark as the good child of the garden, going to Valencia, while her husband, that
good boy who cost so dear, still snoring in the hot students, well wrapped in Carrion rugs marriage.

Those
who bought vegetables in bulk to resell it to this young woman knew before dawn and was in the
market of Valencia, sitting in their baskets, shivering under the
thin and threadbare shawl.

I looked with envy, not realized, those who could drink a cup of coffee to combat the cool morning.
And with the patience of a beast submissive waiting to give him money for vegetables that had
been set in their complex calculations, to keep Toni and bring the house forward.

After the sale ran back toward his cabin, hoping to save as soon as one hour way.

Came back in office to develop a second industry: after vegetables milk. And pulling the halter
of a cow blonde, who had hit the tail as loving Satellite a playful
calf, returned to the city with his wand under his arm and tin as
to serve customers.

La Roche, and dubbed the cow for his blond hair, bellowed sweet, shuddering under a burlap trappings,
hurt by the cool of the morning, turning his eyes wet towards the
hut, he stayed behind with his stable black, relaxed, in which straw
smelly thought with pleasure of the dream unfulfilled.

Pepeta the herding with his staff. It was getting late, and they would complain about the customers.
And the cow and the calf trotted through downtown Alboraya Road,
deep, muddy, deeply furrowed lanes.

On the slopes side, one arm in the basket and the other swinging,
spent endless cigar beads and spinners of silk, all the virginity
of the garden, going to work in factories, leaving with the flutter
of her skirts a trail of chastity rude and rough.

Fields scattered by the blessing of God.

After the trees and houses that blocked the horizon as the sun peeped huge red wafer, horizontal
casting golden needles forced to cover their eyes. The mountains in the background and towers
of the city were taking a rosy tint, the puffs that rowed by coloreábanse sky as skeins of silk
crimson ditches and puddles in the road seemed fishiest fire. It sounded inside the barracks dragging
the broom the clash of crockery, all the noises of the morning cleaning. Agachábanse women
in slopes, taking the basket next to the laundry. Jumped on the brown paths rabbits, with his
devious smile, teaching, to flee, heading for the pink buttocks the button-shaped tail, and
on piles of manure blonde, cock, surrounded by his cloqueantes odalisques, uttered a cry of
jealous sultan, with the ardent pupil chins red with anger.

Pepeta, insensible to this awakening he witnessed daily, continued
their march, more more quickly, on an empty stomach, aching legs and
undergarments impregnated a sweat of his own weakness and poor white
blood, that perhaps escaped during for weeks, contravening the rules
of nature.

The avalanche of hard working people that was heading to Valencia filled bridges. Pepeta passed
among workers in the suburbs who came to the lunch bag neck slope,
stopped at the octroi of Consumption to take his ticket - a few coins
that all ached on the soul - and went through the deserted streets,
cheering the cowbell de la Rocha with badajeo pastoral melody, sounding
to the sleepy bourgeois with green meadows and idyllic pastoral scenes.

He

had the poor woman parishioners scattered throughout the city. His departure was a convoluted
journey through the streets, stopping before the gates closed, a knock here, three and ringing away,
and always, then the shrill, sharp cry, which seemed impossible could arise from its poor and
satin chest: "The lleeet!" Jug in hand down the maid disheveled in sandals, with swollen eyes,
to receive the milk, or the old caretaker, still with blanket that had to go to the Mass of
the morning.

At eight o'clock, after serving all customers, Pepeta was seen near the neighborhood of Fishermen.

As
also found in the office, poor orchard went bravely into the dirty alleys, which seemed dead at that
hour. Always, on entering, felt a certain uneasiness, instinctive repugnance weak stomach. But its
spirit of honest and sick woman known to overcome this impression, and continued on with some
pride vanity, a pride of female caste, comforting to see that she,
weak and overwhelmed by poverty, was still superior to others.

In the closed and silent houses came the breath of cheap debauchery, loud and undisguised: the smell
of spicy meat and rotten, wine and sweat. Through the cracks of doors seemed to escape the brutal
breath and sleep after a night landslide caresses of fierce and drunken amorous whims.

Pepeta heard his name called.

At the door of a ladder beckoning a good girl, bare-chested, ugly, no other charm than a youth about
to disappear, the eyes wet, the twisted ribbon, and cheeks blush stains from the night before:
a cartoon, a clown for vice.

The styling, pressing his lips with a gesture of pride and disdain for the distances it was
quite clear, he began to milk the udder de la Rocha inside the jug out to him the girl. It
did not take his view of the peasant.

- Pepeta! - His voice wavering, as if it were not certain that was herself.

Pepeta raised his head, fixed his eyes for the first time in the slut,
and seemed to hesitate.

- Rosario!

... Is that you?

Yes, she was, I said with sad nods.

And Pepeta immediately expressed amazement. She there! ... The daughter of parents so honored! Shame
on you, Lord ...

The harlot, by custom of the trade, tried to accommodate with cynical smile, the gesture skeptical
who knows the secret of life and believes in nothing, the exclamations of shocked styling.
But the gaze of the eyes eventually clear Pepeta embarrassing, and
lowered head as if to mourn.

No, it was not bad. He had worked in factories, had served as home to a family, but finally
gave her sisters example, tired of being hungry, and there he was, receiving sometimes affection
and other blows, until they burst forever. It was natural: where no father and mother, the
family ends well.

Of all his fault the master of the earth, it Don Salvador, sure to burn in hell. Ah, you thief!
... And how he had lost whole family!

Forgot Pepeta cold and reserved attitude to join the outrage of the girl. Truth all true, this
guy was to blame greedy. I knew the whole orchard. Good God, and how you lose a house! So good
that Barret was the poor guy! If you raise his head and saw their daughters! ... They knew
in the garden that the poor father had died in prison in Ceuta For two years, and as to the
mother, the old wretch had just suffer in a bed Hospital.

The twists and turns the world in ten years! Who had told them to her and to her sisters, used
to live at home and queens who end up that way? Lord! Lord! Libradnos a bad person! ...

Rosario was encouraged with the conversation seemed to rejuvenate with this childhood friend.
His eyes, before dying, sparked by remembering the past. And your booth? What land? Remained
abandoned, right? ... This liked: busting, which is the Holy hiciesen the sons of Don Salvador
rascal! ... It was all I could comfort her.

I was very grateful Pimento and to all the folks they had prevented other work that you enter of
right belonged to his family. And if someone wanted to grab something, well known was the remedy
.... Pum! A shotgun that break the head.

The girl was whipped up, shining in his eyes sparks of ferocity. Revived in the harlot passive
beast accustomed to the beatings, the daughter of the garden, which is born from the shotgun
hanging behind the door and holidays and aims to delight the smoke of gunpowder.

After speaking of the sad past, awakens curiosity was wondering Rosario all there, and ended
in Pepeta. Poor thing! Everyone could see she was not happy. Still young, age revealed only clear
those big eyes virgin, dupes and timid. The body, a mere skeleton, and blonde hair, color of sweet
corn, and appeared gray to handfuls before thirty years. What life gave Pimento? Ever so drunk
and fleeing work? She had sought, by marrying against the advice
of everyone.

Good boy, yes, he shook everyone in the tavern Cup on Sunday afternoon,
when he played the trick with the most handsome in the garden, but
at home should be an insufferable husband .... Although In truth,
all men were equal.

If you know it! Dogs that were not worth is worth looking at them.

Daughter! And what was the poor deteriorated Pepeta! ...

A booming voice came down like thunder tomboy through the gap in the
ladder.

- Elisa!

... Upload milk soon. The Lord is waiting.

Rosario began to laugh herself. Now called Elisa: Do not you know? Age requirement rename office
and speak with an Andalusian accent.

And mimicked with rustic grace the voice of the invisible tomboy.

But in spite of his joy, was quick to withdraw. He feared the above.

The booming voice or The Lord of the milk could give something bad for his delay. He climbed the
ladder faster, After much to recommend Pepeta that ever pass through there, to remember together
the things from the garden.

The weary bell rang de la Rocha over an hour through the streets of Valencia. Released the withered
teats to milk the last drop of tasteless product of a poor grass
leaves cabbage and waste, and finally undertook Pepeta back to his
hut.

The poor peasant walking sad and pensive under the impression that meeting. Remembered like it was
the day before the terrible tragedy that engulfed the Barret with whole family.

Since then, the fields over a hundred years ago the ancestors of the
poor working labrador had been left by the wayside.

His cabin, deserted, without a hand merciful to cast a patch to the roof and a handful of mud
cracks walls, was sinking slowly.

Ten years of continuous flow together had managed to ruin that people do not take notice already
on it. Pepeta it had long had not stopped his attention to the old shack. This interest only
to the boys, who, inheriting the hatred of his parents, he plunged into between the nettles
of the barren fields to mow the abandoned house with stones, breaking the timbers of its closed door,
or blind with dirt and stones that opened well under a very old vines.

But this morning, Pepeta, influenced by his recent encounter, he noticed debris and to stopped
on the way for a better view.

The Barret fields, or rather for her, "the Jew and his unholy Don Salvador heirs "were a blur
of misery amid the fertile garden, worked and smiling. Ten years of neglect had hardened the
ground, drawing from its neglected innards all parasitic plants, all the thorns which God has created
for the punishment of the farmer. A dwarf jungle, tangled and misshapen spread over those fields,
with a wave of foreign shades of green, tinged here and there by
mysterious and rare flowers, the kind that only arise in the ruins
and cemeteries.

Under the foliage of the jungle tiny and encouraged by the safety of his lair, grew and multiplied
all sorts of nasty, spilling into neighboring fields: Rough-backed green lizards, giant beetles
with metallic shimmer shell, spiders short-legged and hairy, even snakes that glide immediate
ditches. There living in the heart of the beautiful and neat plain, forming separate world, devouring
one to others, and even cause harm to the neighbors, they were respected with a certain reverence,
for the seven plagues of Egypt seemed little to those of the garden to throw on those lands are
cursed.

As Barret lands would never be for men, were nesting in them bicharraco
disgusting, and the more the merrier.

In the middle of these desolate fields, which stood out on the beautiful
plain as a stain of dirt in a regal cloak of green velvet, rose the
cabin, or rather this, falling, with straw cap of gutted, teaching
through the openings pierced the wind rain and its rotten wooden ribbing.

The walls, scratched by water, showed their raw clay bricks, no more than a very slight white
spots that exposed the former whitewashed. The door was broken underneath, gnawed by rats, with
cracks that cut from one extreme to another. Two or three windows, completely open and martyred by gales,
hung from one hinge, and were to fall at any moment, just blow a rude gust of wind.

Sorry to ruin that mood, squeezing the heart. It seemed that the left were CASUCO to shut out
ghosts in the night, who were inside screaming to people from murdered, that the whole bush was
hiding under a shroud of it hundreds of corpses.

Horrific images was what inspired the contemplation of these abandoned fields, and highlighted
even more dismal misery when contrasted with the lands near, red, well maintained, correct full
of rows of vegetables and seedlings, to which was the autumn leaves
transparency caramel.

Even the birds fled from the fields of death, perhaps for fear of
the animaluchos that rebullían under brush or by sniffing the breath
of misfortune.

On the broken thatch, if anything could see was the fluttering of
black wings and treacherous funeral feathers of crows and kites, which
were shaken mute the laden trees of joyful and playful fluttering
PIID, remaining silent the garden, as if there were sparrows half-mile
radius.

Pepeta going to move forward, toward his white farmhouse, which peeked through the trees some fields
beyond, but had to lie still on the high side of the road, that he
should a cart loaded advancing stumbling and seemed to come from the
city.

Her feminine curiosity was excited to notice him.

He was a poor farm cart drawn by a bony old nag, which helped in hard bumps a tall man who was
walking next to him encouraging him with shouts and pops whiplash.

Labrador dressed, but how to wear the scarf round his head, his pants corduroy and other details
of his suit, which was not betrayed in the garden, where personal adornment has gradually been
contaminated by the taste of the city. Was a farmer in some remote village: kidney may come
from the province.

On the car amontonábanse, forming pyramid to higher than the poles, all kinds domestic objects.
Was the emigration of an entire family.

Consumptive mattresses, straw mattresses scandalous stuffed corn husk, esparto chairs, pans,
kettles, plates, baskets, bed green benches, all piled on the car, dirty, worn out, miserable,
smelling famine, to escape desperate, as if the march unfortunately
after nipping family heels.

At the top of this mess three children could be seen hugging, which provided the fields with
wide eyes, as explorers visiting a country for the first time.

On foot and behind the cart as watching for anything out of it fell, a woman and a marching girl,
tall, slim, slim, it seemed daughter. On the other side of the horse, helping when the vehicle
is stopped in a bad way, was a boy of eleven years.

Its exterior betrayed serious child, accustomed to struggle with poverty, is a man at the age others
play. A dirty little dog panting up the rear.

Pepeta, supported on the back of his cow, they looked forward, ever possessed the most curiosity.
"Where would these poor people?

The way that, tributary to Alboraya not going anywhere. Extinguished in the distance, and exhausted
by the myriad branching paths and trails that gave entrance to the barracks.

But his curiosity had an unexpected ending. Jesus!

The car left the road, crossing the dilapidated bridge of logs and earth which gave access to
the cursed land, and is got by Barret fields, flattening their tires
brush respected.

The family remained behind, saying with gestures and words confusing
the impression that caused him misery, but straight at the wrecked
cabin, and who takes possession of what is yours.

Pepeta not want to see more. Now I really ran to his hut. Anxious to arrive before left to the
cow and calf, and the two beasts continued their march calmly, as who does not care about things
outside the barn and has insurance.
Pimento was lying on one side of his hut, smoking lazily, staring
at three sticks smeared with lime, put in the sun, around which fluttered
some birds. Occupation was a master.

Upon seeing his wife come to
the astonished eyes and poor chest heaving, Pimento changed positions
to hear better, recommending that does not approach the wands.

Let's
see, what was that? Have you had stolen the cow? ...

Pepeta, with
emotion and fatigue, could barely say two words together.

"The land
of Barret .... An entire family .... Iban to work, to live in the
barracks. She I had seen. " 

Pimento, bird hunter with league foe
of labor and terror of the contoured, could not impassive gravity
retain great man at such unexpected news.

- Recontracordóns! ...

Got
a jump straight weighed and human muscles, and began to run without
waiting for further explanation.

His wife saw how he ran cross country
to a bluff to the lands immediately cursed. There he knelt, lay on
his stomach to peer through the reeds like a Bedouin lurking, and
after a few minutes he returned to run, lost in this labyrinth of
paths, each of which led to a hut, to a field where men hunched by
shone his hoe like a flash of steel. One wouldn't do that for the world--a rudimentary discretion forbade
it; and yet this check from elementary undiscussable taste quite consorted with a due respect
for them, or at any rate with a due respect for oneself in connection with them; as was just
exemplified in what would be his own, what would be poor dear old White-Mason's, insurmountable
aversion to having, on any pretext, the doubtless very queer spectre of the late Mr. Worthingham
presented to him. No question had he asked, or would he ever ask, should his life--that is
should the success of his courtship--even intimately depend on it, either about that obscure
agent of his mistress's actual affluence or about the happy head-spring itself, and the apparently
copious tributaries, of the golden stream.

From all which marked anomalies, at any rate, what was the moral to draw? He dropped into a
Park chair again with that question, he lost himself in the wonder of why he had come away
with his homage so very much unpaid. Yet it didn't seem at all, actually, as if he could say
or conclude, as if he could do anything but keep on worrying--just in conformity with his being
a person who, whether or no familiar with the need to make his conduct square with his conscience
and his taste, was never wholly exempt from that of making his taste and his conscience square
with his conduct. To this latter occupation he further abandoned himself, and it didn't release
him from his second brooding session till the sweet spring sunset had begun to gather and he
had more or less cleared up, in the deepening dusk, the effective relation between the various
parts of his ridiculously agitating experience. There were vital facts he seemed thus to catch,
to seize, with a nervous hand, and the twilight helping, by their vaguely whisked tails; unquiet
truths that swarmed out after the fashion of creatures bold only at eventide, creatures that
hovered and circled, that verily brushed his nose, in spite of their shyness. Yes, he had practically
just sat on with his "mistress"--heaven save the mark!--as if not to come to the point; as
if it had absolutely come up that there would be something rather vulgar and awful in doing
so. The whole stretch of his stay after Cornelia's withdrawal had been consumed by his almost
ostentatiously treating himself to the opportunity of which he was to make nothing. It was
as if he had sat and watched himself--that came back to him: Shall I now or sha'n't I? Will
I now or won't I? "Say within the next three minutes, say by a quarter past six, or by twenty
minutes past, at the furthest--always if nothing more comes up to prevent."

What had already come up to prevent was, in the strangest and drollest, or at least in the
most preposterous, way in the world, that not Cornelia's presence, but her very absence, with
its distraction of his thoughts, the thoughts that lumbered after her, had made the difference;
and without his being the least able to tell why and how. He put it to himself after a fashion
by the image that, this distraction once created, his working round to his hostess again, his
reverting to the matter of his errand, began suddenly to represent a return from so far. That
was simply all--or rather a little less than all; for something else had contributed. "I never
dreamed you knew her," and "I never dreamed you did," were inevitably what had been exchanged
between them--supplemented by Mrs. Worthingham's mere scrap of an explanation: "Oh yes--to
the small extent you see. Two years ago in Switzerland when I was at a high place for an 'aftercure,'
during twenty days of incessant rain, she was the only person in an hotel full of roaring,
gorging, smoking Germans with whom I could have a word of talk. She and I were the only speakers
of English, and were thrown together like castaways on a desert island and in a raging storm.
She was ill besides, and she had no maid, and mine looked after her, and she was very grateful--writing
to me later on and saying she should certainly come to see me if she ever returned to New York.
She has returned, you see--and there she was, poor little creature!" Such was Mrs. Worthingham's
tribute--to which even his asking her if Miss Rasch had ever happened to speak of him caused
her practically to add nothing. Visibly she had never thought again of any one Miss Rasch had
spoken of or anything Miss Rasch had said; right as she was, naturally, about her being a little
clever queer creature. This was perfectly true, and yet it was probably--by being all she could
dream of about her--what had paralysed his proper gallantry. Its effect had been not in what
it simply stated, but in what, under his secretly disintegrating criticism, it almost luridly
symbolised.

He had quitted his seat in the Louis Quinze drawing-room without having, as he would have described
it, done anything but give the lady of the scene a superior chance not to betray a defeated
hope--not, that is, to fail of the famous "pride" mostly supposed to prop even the most infatuated
women at such junctures; by which chance, to do her justice, she had thoroughly seemed to profit.
But he finally rose from his later station with a feeling of better success. He had by a happy
turn of his hand got hold of the most precious, the least obscure of the flitting, circling
things that brushed his ears. What he wanted--as justifying for him a little further consideration--was
there before him from the moment he could put it that Mrs. Worthingham had no data. He almost
hugged that word,--it suddenly came to mean so much to him. No data, he felt, for a conception
of the sort of thing the New York of "his time" had been in his personal life--the New York
so unexpectedly, so vividly and, as he might say, so perversely called back to all his senses
by its identity with that of poor Cornelia's time: since even she had had a time, small show
as it was likely to make now, and his time and hers had been the same. Cornelia figured to
him while he walked away as, by contrast and opposition, a massive little bundle of data; his
impatience to go to see her sharpened as he thought of this: so certainly should he find out
that wherever he might touch her, with a gentle though firm pressure, he would, as the fond
visitor of old houses taps and fingers a disfeatured, overpapered wall with the conviction
of a wainscot-edge beneath, recognise some small extrusion of history.

IV

There would have been a wonder for us meanwhile in his continued use, as it were, of his happy
formula--brought out to Cornelia Rasch within ten minutes, or perhaps only within twenty, of
his having settled into the quite comfortable chair that, two days later, she indicated to
him by her fireside. He had arrived at her address through the fortunate chance of his having
noticed her card, as he went out, deposited, in the good old New York fashion, on one of the
rococo tables of Mrs. Worthingham's hall. His eye had been caught by the pencilled indication
that was to affect him, the next instant, as fairly placed there for his sake. This had really
been his luck, for he shouldn't have liked to write to Mrs. Worthingham for guidance--that
he felt, though too impatient just now to analyze the reluctance. There was nobody else he
could have approached for a clue, and with this reflection he was already aware of how it testified
to their rare little position, his and Cornelia's--position as conscious, ironic, pathetic
survivors together of a dead and buried society--that there would have been, in all the town,
under such stress, not a member of their old circle left to turn to. Mrs. Worthingham had practically,
even if accidentally, helped him to knowledge; the last nail in the coffin of the poor dear
extinct past had been planted for him by his having thus to reach his antique contemporary
through perforation of the newest newness. The note of this particular recognition was in fact
the more prescribed to him that the ground of Cornelia's return to a scene swept so bare of
the associational charm was certainly inconspicuous. What had she then come back for?--he had
asked himself that; with the effect of deciding that it probably would have been, a little,
to "look after" her remnant of property. Perhaps she had come to save what little might still
remain of that shrivelled interest; perhaps she had been, by those who took care of it for
her, further swindled and despoiled, so that she wished to get at the facts. Perhaps on the
other hand--it was a more cheerful chance--her investments, decently administered, were making
larger returns, so that the rigorous thrift of Bognor could be finally relaxed.

He had little to learn about the attraction of Europe, and rather expected that in the event
of his union with Mrs Worthingham he should find himself pleading for it with the competence
of one more in the "know" about Paris and Rome, about Venice and Florence, than even she could
be. He could have lived on in his New York, that is in the sentimental, the spiritual, the
more or less romantic visitation of it; but had it been positive for him that he could live
on in hers?--unless indeed the possibility of this had been just (like the famous vertige de
l'abîme, like the solicitation of danger, or otherwise of the dreadful) the very hinge of his
whole dream. However that might be, his curiosity was occupied rather with the conceivable
hinge of poor Cornelia's: it was perhaps thinkable that even Mrs. Worthingham's New York, once
it should have become possible again at all, might have put forth to this lone exile a plea
that wouldn't be in the chords of Bognor. For himself, after all, too, the attraction had been
much more of the Europe over which one might move at one's ease, and which therefore could
but cost, and cost much, right and left, than of the Europe adapted to scrimping. He saw himself
on the whole scrimping with more zest even in Mrs. Worthingham's New York than under the inspiration
of Bognor. Apart from which it was yet again odd, not to say perceptibly pleasing to him, to
note where the emphasis of his interest fell in this fumble of fancy over such felt oppositions
as the new, the latest, the luridest power of money and the ancient reserves and moderations
and mediocrities. These last struck him as showing by contrast the old brown surface and tone
as of velvet rubbed and worn, shabby, and even a bit dingy, but all soft and subtle and still
velvety--which meant still dignified; whereas the angular facts of current finance were as
harsh and metallic and bewildering as some stacked "exhibit" of ugly patented inventions, things
his mediaeval mind forbade his taking in. He had for instance the sense of knowing the pleasant
little old Rasch fortune--pleasant as far as it went; blurred memories and impressions of what
it had been and what it hadn't, of how it had grown and how languished and how melted; they
came back to him and put on such vividness that he could almost have figured himself testify
for them before a bland and encouraging Board. The idea of taking the field in any manner on
the subject of Mrs. Worthingham's resources would have affected him on the other hand as an
odious ordeal, some glare of embarrassment and exposure in a circle of hard unhelpful attention,
of converging, derisive, unsuggestive eyes.

In Cornelia's small and quite cynically modern flat--the house had a grotesque name, "The Gainsborough,"
but at least wasn't an awful boarding-house, as he had feared, and she could receive him quite
honourably, which was so much to the good--he would have been ready to use at once to her the
greatest freedom of friendly allusion: "Have you still your old 'family interest' in those
two houses in Seventh Avenue?--one of which was next to a corner grocery, don't you know? and
was occupied as to its lower part by a candy-shop where the proportion of the stock of suspectedly
stale popcorn to that of rarer and stickier joys betrayed perhaps a modest capital on the part
of your father's, your grandfather's, or whoever's tenant, but out of which I nevertheless
remember once to have come as out of a bath of sweets, with my very garments, and even the
separate hairs of my head, glued together. The other of the pair, a tobacconist's, further
down, had before it a wonderful huge Indian who thrust out wooden cigars at an indifferent
world--you could buy candy cigars too, at the pop-corn shop, and I greatly preferred them to
the wooden; I remember well how I used to gape in fascination at the Indian and wonder if the
last of the Mohicans was like him; besides admiring so the resources of a family whose 'property'
was in such forms. I haven't been round there lately--we must go round together; but don't
tell me the forms have utterly perished!" It was after that fashion he might easily have been
moved, and with almost no transition, to break out to Cornelia--quite as if taking up some
old talk, some old community of gossip, just where they had left it; even with the consciousness
perhaps of overdoing a little, of putting at its maximum, for the present harmony, recovery,
recapture (what should he call it?) the pitch and quantity of what the past had held for them.

He didn't in fact, no doubt, dart straight off to Seventh Avenue, there being too many other
old things and much nearer and long subsequent; the point was only that for everything they
spoke of after he had fairly begun to lean back and stretch his legs, and after she had let
him, above all, light the first of a succession of cigarettes--for everything they spoke of
he positively cultivated extravagance and excess, piling up the crackling twigs as on the very
altar of memory; and that by the end of half an hour she had lent herself, all gallantly, to
their game. It was the game of feeding the beautiful iridescent flame, ruddy and green and
gold, blue and pink and amber and silver, with anything they could pick up, anything that would
burn and flicker. Thick-strown with such gleanings the occasion seemed indeed, in spite of
the truth that they perhaps wouldn't have proved, under cross-examination, to have rubbed shoulders
in the other life so very hard. Casual contacts, qualified communities enough, there had doubtless
been, but not particular "passages," nothing that counted, as he might think of it, for their
"very own" together, for nobody's else at all. These shades of historic exactitude didn't signify;
the more and the less that there had been made perfect terms--and just by his being there and
by her rejoicing in it--with their present need to have had all their past could be made to
appear to have given them. It was to this tune they proceeded, the least little bit as if they
knowingly pretended--he giving her the example and setting her the pace of it, and she, poor
dear, after a first inevitable shyness, an uncertainty of wonder, a breathlessness of courage,
falling into step and going whatever length he would.

She showed herself ready for it, grasping gladly at the perception of what he must mean; and
if she didn't immediately and completely fall in--not in the first half-hour, not even in the
three or four others that his visit, even whenever he consulted his watch, still made nothing
of--she yet understood enough as soon as she understood that, if their finer economy hadn't
so beautifully served, he might have been conveying this, that, and the other incoherent and
easy thing by the comparatively clumsy method of sound and statement. "No, I never made love
to you; it would in fact have been absurd, and I don't care--though I almost know, in the sense
of almost remembering!--who did and who didn't; but you were always about, and so was I, and,
little as you may yourself care who I did it to, I dare say you remember (in the sense of having
known of it!) any old appearances that told. But we can't afford at this time of day not to
help each other to have had--well, everything there was, since there's no more of it now, nor
any way of coming by it except so; and therefore let us make together, let us make over and
recreate, our lost world; for which we have after all and at the worst such a lot of material.
You were in particular my poor dear sisters' friend--they thought you the funniest little brown
thing possible; so isn't that again to the good? You were mine only to the extent that you
were so much in and out of the house--as how much, if we come to that, wasn't one in and out,
south of Thirtieth Street and north of Washington Square, in those days, those spacious, sociable,
Arcadian days, that we flattered ourselves we filled with the modern fever, but that were so
different from any of these arrangements of pretended hourly Time that dash themselves forever
to pieces as from the fiftieth floors of sky-scrapers."

This was the kind of thing that was in the air, whether he said it or not, and that could hang
there even with such quite other things as more crudely came out; came in spite of its being
perhaps calculated to strike us that these last would have been rather and most the unspoken
and the indirect. They were Cornelia's contribution, and as soon as she had begun to talk of
Mrs. Worthingham--he didn't begin it!--they had taken their place bravely in the centre of
the circle. There they made, the while, their considerable little figure, but all within the
ring formed by fifty other allusions, fitful but really intenser irruptions that hovered and
wavered and came and went, joining hands at moments and whirling round as in chorus, only then
again to dash at the slightly huddled centre with a free twitch or peck or push or other taken
liberty, after the fashion of irregular frolic motions in a country dance or a Christmas game.

"You're so in love with her and want to marry her!"--she said it all sympathetically and yearningly,
poor crapy Cornelia; as if it were to be quite taken for granted that she knew all about it.
And then when he had asked how she knew--why she took so informed a tone about it; all on the
wonder of her seeming so much more "in" it just at that hour than he himself quite felt he
could figure for: "Ah, how but from the dear lovely thing herself? Don't you suppose she knows it?"

"Oh, she absolutely 'knows' it, does she?"--he fairly heard himself ask that; and with the
oddest sense at once of sharply wanting the certitude and yet of seeing the question, of hearing
himself say the words, through several thicknesses of some wrong medium. He came back to it
from a distance; as he would have had to come back (this was again vivid to him) should he
have got round again to his ripe intention three days before--after his now present but then
absent friend, that is, had left him planted before his now absent but then present one for
the purpose. "Do you mean she--at all confidently!--expects?" he went on, not much minding
if it couldn't but sound foolish; the time being given it for him meanwhile by the sigh, the
wondering gasp, all charged with the unutterable, that the tone of his appeal set in motion.
He saw his companion look at him, but it might have been with the eyes of thirty years ago;
when--very likely.--he had put her some such question about some girl long since dead. Dimly
at first, then more distinctly, didn't it surge back on him for the very strangeness that there
had been some such passage as this between them--yes, about Mary Cardew!--in the autumn of '68?

"Why, don't you realise your situation?" Miss Rasch struck him as quite beautifully wailing--above
all to such an effect of deep interest, that is, on her own part and in him. 

He took some land near Sagunto: dry fields, red and eternally thirsty in which twisted its ancient
carob hollow trees or olive trees raised their powdered round heads.

His life was a continuous battle with drought, a continuing look at the sky, trembling with emotion
whenever a small black cloud looming on the horizon.

Little rain, the crops were bad for four years, and Batiste did not know what to do or where
to go, when on a trip to Valencia met the sons of Don Salvador, a great masters (God bless),
who gave that beauty of fields, free lease for two years until they
completely regain their status of other times.

Something he heard what had happened in the cabin, the causes that force the owners so beautiful to
keep unproductive land, but after going so long!

... In addition, misery has no ears, he suited to the fields, and they left. What mattered old
stories of Don Salvador and Barret? ...

Forgot everything despised and contemplating their land. And Batiste felt himself possessed
of a sweet Ecstasy to be fertile orchard grower had so often envied when he passed the road from
Valencia to Sagunto.

That was land, evergreen, with the entrails of a crop breeding tireless after another, circling the red
water at all hours as life-giving blood for the many ditches and
sprinklers that plied its surface as a complex network of veins and
arteries fertile to feed whole families with tables, so small, they
seemed scarves foliage.

Sagunto dry fields recordábalos thirsty as hell, which fortunately had escaped.

Now he was really on track. Business The fields were lost, was there much to do, but when you have
good will ... And stretching, the big man strong, muscular back of a giant, round head and a
kindly face sustained sheared by a thick neck, a monk, extending
his powerful arms, lifted her accustomed to sacks of flour and the
heavy skins of the cart.

So concerned was their land, who barely noticed the curious neighbors.

The restless heads poking among cañares or lying on his stomach on the slopes, Men stared at
him, little boys and even women of the barracks immediately. Batiste
did ignore them.

It was the curiosity, expectation always inspire hostile newcomers. He knew what that was,
and would be accustomed.

Also, maybe they were interested see how poverty burned ten years of neglect had heaped upon
the fields of Barret.

And helped by his wife and children, began to burn a day after his arrival the whole parasitic vegetation.

Shrubs,
after writhing in the flames, embers fell facts, escaping from their nasty bugs charred ashes.
The hut appeared to be blurred between the clouds smoke of lamps,
which aroused anger deaf throughout the garden.

Once clean the land, Batiste, without wasting time, proceeded to its cultivation. Were harsh; but
he, as an expert farmer, wanted to work slowly, in sections, and setting a box near his hut,
he began to remove the help of his family land.

Neighbors burlábanse them all with an irony that betrayed his irritation. Go a family! They were
gypsies and those who sleep under bridges. They lived in the old barracks the same as shipwrecked
on a ship wrecked endure: plugging a hole here shoring up there, doing real wonders that would
hold up the thatch, distributing its poor furniture, carefully fregoteados in all rooms, which were
before burrowing mice and bugs.

In point of time-consuming, were like a herd of squirrels, unable to sit still while the father
worked.

Teresa Rosetta women and the eldest daughter, with her skirts gathered between legs and spade
in hand, digging more ardently than a laborer, resting only to turn
back by the hair falling on the red sweaty face.

The eldest son was continuous Valencia travel to the basket on his shoulder, carrying manure
and debris, placed in two piles, like columns of honor, at the entrance
of the building.

The three little ones, serious and laborious, as if they understood the plight of the family,
went to all fours after diggers, tearing lumps of hard burned shrub roots.

This preparatory task lasted more than a week, sweating and panting
family from dawn till night.

Half of the land was removed.

Batiste filed and styled with the help of the old and spirited horse, which seemed to the family.

Had
to come to his crop, were in San Martin, the time of sowing and the
farmer cleared land divided into three parts.

The higher in wheat, a smaller frame for beans and other plant for fodder, it was not something
to forget the Morrut, the good old nag. Well it had won.

And with the joy of that after a laborious navigation discover the port, the family proceeded to
planting. The future was assured. The lands of the garden did not
deceive, hence would bread for the whole year.

The afternoon saw the planting was completed by the immediate way forward a few sheep of dirty fleece,
fearful that they stopped at the edge of the field.

Behind them came an old parchment, yellow, eyes sunken in the deep orbits and mouth surrounded
by a halo of wrinkles. Progressed slowly, with steps firm, but with
the staff ahead of testing the waters.

The family looked at him intently. Was the only one in the two weeks that there were dared to approach
the land. Noting the hesitation of his sheep, he shouted for them to go forward.

Batiste went to meet the old. Could not happen: the lands are now cultivated. Did not you know?
...

Some of it had heard the old Tomba, but in the past two weeks had
led his flock to graze the weeds in the cliff of Carraixet, without
worrying about these fields .... Really now they were grown?

And the old shepherd moved his head to make efforts to see with their
eyes almost dead bold man who dared to do what all the garden was
as impossible.

He paused a while, and finally began to murmur sadly

"Too bad, he also, in his youth he had been dared: he liked to wear
them all the opposite.

But when too many enemies ... Too bad, she had gone into a difficult step. Those land, after
the poor Barret, were cursed.

I could believe him, that was old and experienced, would bring misfortune.

"

And the pastor called his herd, to march him down the road, and before leaving threw the blanket
back, raising his emaciated arms, and some chanting wizard that predicts the future or a prophet
who sniffs the ruin, he shouted to Batiste:

- Creume, fill meu: desgrasia will carry you !...[ 4]

[4] - Believe
me, my son will bring disgrace!

...

From this meeting arose another reason for anger to the entire garden. Tomba's uncle could no longer
put the sheep on that land, after ten years of peaceful enjoyment of their pastures.

Nobody said a word about the legitimacy of the refusal of the occupant to be the ground cultivated.
All spoke only of the respect he deserved the old minister, a man
that in his youth, the French ate raw, who had seen much of the world,
and whose wisdom, demonstrated average incoherent words and advice,
inspired a superstitious respect to the people of the barracks.

When Batiste and his family were drenched fertile seed the bowels of their land, thought of housing,
lack of work more urgent.

The field would do his duty. It was time to think about themselves.

And for the first time since his arrival in the orchard, land Batiste left to go to Valencia to
charge your car every scrap of the city that might be useful.

The man was a tireless ant to search for it. The mounds formed by Batistet widened considerably with
the father's expeditions.

The hump of manure, which was a shade defensively to the hut, grew rapidly, and beyond hundreds amontonáronse
of bricks, rotting timbers, broken doors, windows made chips, all demolition waste in the city.

People
watched in amazement how quickly the garden and good skill of industrious
hackers to fix your home.

The thatched roof of the cabin was suddenly straightened, the ribs of the roof eaten away by
the rains, were reinforced and substituted some other, a layer of
fresh straw covered the remaining two planes abroad.

Even the little crosses on the ends were substituted by others that worked cucamente Batiste knife,
decorating its edges with jagged notches, and there was all round roof that they stood more graceful.

The
neighbors, seeing how reformed Barrett's cabin, standing straight cap, saw in this bit of fun
and challenge.

Then began the work below. What a way to use the rubble of Valencia! ... Cracks disappeared, and
finished plaster walls, the wife and daughter the whitewashed dazzling
white.

The new door and painted blue, it seemed the mother of all windows, poking through the holes
in the walls its square faces of the same color.

Under the vine Batiste made a square, paved with red bricks, for
women to sew there in the afternoon.

Well, after a grueling week of declines and carries, was cleared of all stones and rubbish that
the rascals had crowded orchard for ten years, and again its clean, fresh water rose again in mossy
pail with cheerful chirps of the wheel, which seemed to laugh at people with a raucous contour
old mischievous laugh.

Neighbors devouring rage in silence. Thief, rather than a thief! What a way to work! ... The man
seemed to have with their brawny arms two magic wands that transform all at the touch.

Ten weeks after his arrival, had not yet left their lands half a dozen
times.

Always on them, his head between his shoulders and his spine bent, intoxicated in their work,
and Barrett's cabin had a flirtatious and cheerful appearance, as never had been held by its
former occupier.

The yard, surrounded with rotten hurdles before, now had poles and mud walls, painted white on the
edges of chickens running around the blonde and inflamed the rooster,
straightening purple head .... In the square, opposite the barracks,
beds blooming dompedro and vines.

A row of pots painted blue chipped pots served on the bank of red bricks, and through the open
door - ah, blowhard - there was the Cantarera new white sheets with tiles and green jars belly
pan, a set insolent glare and took the view that once ran through the road.

All in his fury rising, went to Pimento. Could this be pampered? What did make Pepeta the terrible
husband?

And Pimento scratched his face listening to them, with some confusion.

What was I going to do?

... Its purpose was to say two little words to that upstart that was brought to cultivate what
was not theirs, a very serious indication that "it was not stupid"
and again his land, because there had nothing to do.

But this subject did not come out of their fields, and not thing was going to threaten him
at home.

This would "give the body" too, taking consider what might happen
next.

Had to be cautious and save the output.

Anyway ... a little patience. Him, all I could say is that this subject would not reap the wheat,
and beans, and all that was planted in the fields of Barret. That would be for the devil.

Pimento reassuring words to the neighbors, and they continued with
the watchful eye Progress of the goddam family, wishing silently that
soon came when his ruin.

One afternoon he returned Batiste of Valencia, very happy with the results of his trip. I did not
want to arm home pointless. Batistet, when there was work in the field, sought occupation
going into the city to collect manure. There was the girl, a Bouncers that arrangement ended
the cabin, no good for much, and thanks to the protection of the
children of Don Salvador showed that thrilled with the new tenant
just to get that support it in a silk factory.

From the next day, Rosetta would be part of the string of girls, waking up dawn, going through
all the paths with flowing skirt and the basket to the arm path the
city, to spin the silken cocoon between his thick fingers of daughters
of the garden.

Batiste Arriving to the vicinity of the tavern Cup, a man appeared
on the road leaving a trail immediately and marched him slowly, giving
to understand their desire talk.

Batiste was stopped inside regretting not carrying not a bad knife or a sickle, but serene,
tranquil, rearing its head round the expression so feared by pressing his family and across
the chest the arms of former strongman mill boy.

Known to man, although he had never spoken with him.

Pimento was.

At last the encounter occurred had feared.

The bully was measured with a look at the hated intruder, and spoke with honeyed voice, striving
to give his ferocity and malice in a tone of kindly advice.

I wanted to tell you two reasons: it had long wanted, but how to do it, if you never left from
their land?

- Two rahonetes not més ... [5]

[5] - Two razoncitas nothing more ...

And let the couple of reasons,
advising him to leave as soon as the land of Barret.

Must believe the men who loved him well, to those familiar with the customs of the garden. His
presence there was an offense, and the cabin almost new an insult to the poor people. There to
follow his advice and go elsewhere with his family.

Batiste Pimento smiled ironically as he spoke, and he, at last, seemed confused by the serenity
of the intruder, shocked to find a man who felt no fear in his presence.

"" Leaving it? ... There was cute to make him abandon what was his, which was watered with their
sweat and had to give bread to his family. He was a peaceful man, are we? but if you seek
out tickles, was as brave as they come. Everyone that gets into your business, and he would rather
meet with him without offending anyone. "

Then, past the bully, went his way, turning away with a confidence derogatory.

Pimento, accustomed to him tremble all the garden, looked increasingly puzzled by the serenity of
Batiste.

- Is the Darrera paraula [6] - he cried when he was already at a distance.

[6]

- Is the last word?

- Yes, the Darrera - Batiste replied without turning.

And went ahead, disappearing around a turn of the road.

Far away, in the former barracks Barrett, sniffing dog barked near his master.

When left alone, Pimento regained its pride. "Christ! And how he had taunted him Uncle! "muttered
some curses and threatening a fist pointed curve of the road where he had gone Batiste.

- You will pay me .... I will pay, backpack!

In his voice trembling with anger, hatred vibrated condensed all of the garden.

IV

It was Thursday, and according to a custom dating back five centuries, the Tribunal de las Aguas
was to meet at the door of the Apostles of the Cathedral of Valencia.

The clock tower pointing Miguelete called a little after ten, and
juntábanse huertanos in little groups or were seated on the edge of
the bowl of the font that adorns the plaza, forming around the glass
a vibrant garland of blue and white blankets, scarves red and yellow
calico skirts or light colors.

Came about pulling his nag with pannier full of manure, content of sampling on the streets, others
in their empty cars, trying to soften the guards municipal dejasen them stay there, and while
conversing with the old women, young people went into the nearest
cafe to kill time before the cup brandy, mumbling his cigar three
cents.

All orchard that avenge wrongs had was there, grinning and
frowning, talking their rights, eager to drop to the trustees or judges
of the seven judges the endless litany of complaints.

Court bailiffs,
who had more than fifty years of struggle with this troop insolent
and aggressive, placed under the shade of the arched cover parts of
old damask sofa, and tended then a low fence, closing the sidewalk
space was to serve as room hearing.

The door of the Apostles, old,
red, eaten for centuries, spreading their gnawed beauties to sunlight,
was a fund worth of the old court was like a canopy stone shelter
built for an institution than five centuries.

In the tympanum the
Virgin appeared six angels with rigid wings often dawns and plumage
chubby, with flaming toupee and heavy curls, playing viola and flutes,
reeds and drums. Running through the three arches superimposed on
the cover three wreaths of figurines, angels, kings and saints, canopies
sheltering in drafts. On sturdy pedestals exhibíanse the twelve apostles,
but so disfigured, so battered, that I had not known Jesus foot gnawed,
broken noses, hands cut off, a row of dummies, which more than apostles
seemed ill escaped from a clinic reports showing painfully dies. Above,
at the end of the cover, opened, like a gigantic flower wire cover,
escutcheon of colors that gave light to the church, and on the floor
at the base of the columns adorned with coats of Aragon, the stone
was worn edges and blurred by the foliage friction of countless generations.

In
this wear on the cover guessed the passage of the revolt and mutiny.
Alongside these had gathered stones and confused an entire people
there were busy in other centuries, screaming and red with rage, the
Valencianism rebellious, and the saints of the cover, mutilated and
smooth as Egyptian mummies, to look at the sky with broken heads,
seemed to be listening even revolutionary union campaign or the gunshot
of the Germanies.

He finished the sheriff court and plantóse fix
at the entrance of the gate, waiting to the judges.

Iban came and
solemn, with the majesty of rich peasants, dressed in black, white
sandals and silk handkerchief under the broad hat. Each carried behind
a procession of ditch guards of beggars before the time of seeking
justice bias the mind of the court in their favor.

The peasant folk
look with respect to these judges come out of his class, whose deliberations
admitted no appeal. They were the masters of water in his hands was
the life of families, the food of the fields, irrigation, timely,
lack of which kills the harvest. And the people the extensive river
valley cut by the nurturer, as a bristling barbed spine were his channels
to the judges designated by the name of the canals they represented.

A
dry old man, hunched, whose red hands trembling and covered with scales
to rely on arch thickness was Faitanar room, the other large and majestic,
with eyes that just if they were under the two handfuls of white hair
of his eyebrows, was Mislata, shortly after arriving Rascaño, a young
man of ironed shirt and lay round head, and behind them were performing
others, up to seven: Favara, Robella, Tormos and Mestalla.

Was there
representing the two valleys: the left of the river, the four ditches,
which encloses the garden paths Ruzafa with lush foliage that go to
extinct within the limits of the Albufera lake and the valley to the
right of the Turia, the poetic the Benimaclet strawberries, groundnuts
Alboraya and lush gardens are always flowers. I take it of course," he
had swaggered on, "that your pretension wouldn't be for a moment that I should--after the act
of profanity--take up my life with you."

"It's just as much my dream as it ever was, Herbert Dodd, to take up mine with you! Remember
for me that I can do with it, my dear, that my idea is for even as much as that of you!" she
had cried; "remember that for me, Herbert Dodd; remember, remember!"

It was on this she had left him--left him frankly under a mortal chill. There might have been
the last ring of an appeal or a show of persistent and perverse tenderness in it, however preposterous
any such matter; but in point of fact her large, clean, plain, brown face--so much too big
for her head, he now more than ever felt it to be, just as her head was so much too big for
her body, and just as her hats had an irritating way of appearing to decline choice and conformity
in respect to any of her dimensions--presented itself with about as much expression as his
own shop-window when the broad, blank, sallow blind was down. He was fond of his shop-window
with some good show on; he had a fancy for a good show and was master of twenty different schemes
of taking arrangement for the old books and prints, "high-class rarities" his modest catalogue
called them, in which he dealt and which his maternal uncle, David Geddes, had, as he liked
to say, "handed down" to him. His widowed mother had screwed the whole thing, the stock and
the connection and the rather bad little house in the rather bad little street, out of the
ancient worthy, shortly before his death, in the name of the youngest and most interesting,
the "delicate" one and the literary, of her five scattered and struggling children. He could
enjoy his happiest collocations and contrasts and effects, his harmonies and varieties of toned
and faded leather and cloth, his sought color-notes and the high clearnesses, here and there,
of his white and beautifully figured price-labels, which pleased him enough in themselves almost
to console him for not oftener having to break, on a customer's insistence, into the balanced
composition. But the dropped expanse of time-soiled canvas, the thing of Sundays and holidays,
with just his name, "Herbert Dodd, Successor," painted on below his uncle's antique style,
the feeble penlike flourishes already quite archaic--this ugly vacant mask, which might so
easily be taken for the mask of failure, somehow always gave him a chill.

That had been just the sort of chill--the analogy was complete--of Kate Cookham's last look.
He supposed people doing an awfully good and sure and steady business, in whatever line, could
see a whole front turned to vacancy that way and merely think of the hours off represented
by it. Only for this--nervously to bear it, in other words, and Herbert Dodd, quite with the
literary temperament himself, was capable of that amount of play of fancy, or even of morbid
analysis--you had to be on some footing, you had to feel some confidence, pretty different
from his own up to now. He had never not enjoyed passing his show on the other side of the
street and taking it in thence with a casual obliquity; but he had never held optical commerce
with the drawn blind for a moment longer than he could help. It always looked horribly final
and as if it never would come up again. Big and bare, with his name staring at him from the
middle, it thus offered in its grimness a turn of comparison for Miss Cookham's ominous visage.
She never wore pretty, dotty, transparent veils, as Nan Drury did, and the words "Herbert Dodd"--save
that she had sounded them at him there two or three times more like a Meg Merrilies or the
bold bad woman in one of the melodramas of high life given during the fine season in the pavilion
at the end of Properley Pier--were dreadfully, were permanently, seated on her lips. She was
grim, no mistake.

That evening, alone in the back room above the shop, he saw so little what he could do that,
consciously demoralised for the hour, he gave way to tears about it. Her taking a stand so
incredibly "low," that was what he couldn't get over. The particular bitterness of his cup
was his having let himself in for a struggle on such terms--the use, on her side, of the vulgarest
process known to the law: the vulgarest, the vulgarest, he kept repeating that, clinging to
the help rendered him by this imputation to his terrorist of the vice he sincerely believed
he had ever, among difficulties (for oh he recognised the difficulties!) sought to keep most
alien to him. He knew what he was, in a dismal, down-trodden sphere enough--the lean young
proprietor of an old business that had itself rather shrivelled with age than ever grown fat,
the purchase and sale of second-hand books and prints, with the back street of a long-fronted
south-coast watering-place (Old Town by good luck) for the dusky field of his life. But he
had gone in for all the education he could get--his educated customers would often hang about
for more talk by the half-hour at a time, he actually feeling himself, and almost with a scruple,
hold them there; which meant that he had had (he couldn't be blind to that) natural taste and
had lovingly cultivated and formed it. Thus, from as far back as he could remember, there had
been things all round him that he suffered from when other people didn't; and he had kept most
of his suffering to himself--which had taught him, in a manner, how to suffer, and how almost
to like to.

So, at any rate, he had never let go his sense of certain differences, he had done everything
he could to keep it up--whereby everything that was vulgar was on the wrong side of his line.
He had believed, for a series of strange, oppressed months, that Kate Cookham's manners and
tone were on the right side; she had been governess--for young children--in two very good private
families, and now had classes in literature and history for bigger girls who were sometimes
brought by their mammas; in fact, coming in one day to look over his collection of students'
manuals, and drawing it out, as so many did, for the evident sake of his conversation, she
had appealed to him that very first time by her apparently pronounced intellectual side--goodness
knew she didn't even then by the physical!--which she had artfully kept in view till she had
entangled him past undoing. And it had all been but the cheapest of traps--when he came to
take the pieces apart a bit--laid over a brazen avidity. What he now collapsed for, none the
less--what he sank down on a chair at a table and nursed his weak, scared sobs in his resting
arms for--was the fact that, whatever the trap, it held him as with the grip of sharp murderous
steel. There he was, there he was; alone in the brown summer dusk--brown through his windows--he
cried and he cried. He shouldn't get out without losing a limb. The only question was which
of his limbs it should be.

Before he went out, later on--for he at last felt the need to--he could, however, but seek
to remove from his face and his betraying eyes, over his washing-stand, the traces of his want
of fortitude. He brushed himself up; with which, catching his stricken image a bit spectrally
in an old dim toilet-glass, he knew again, in a flash, the glow of righteous resentment. Who
should be assured against coarse usage if a man of his really elegant, perhaps in fact a trifle
over-refined or "effete" appearance, his absolutely gentlemanlike type, couldn't be? He never
went so far as to rate himself, with exaggeration, a gentleman; but he would have maintained
against all comers, with perfect candour and as claiming a high advantage, that he was, in
spite of that liability to blubber, "like" one; which he was no doubt, for that matter, at
several points. Like what lady then, who could ever possibly have been taken for one, was Kate
Cookham, and therefore how could one have anything--anything of the intimate and private order--out
with her fairly and on the plane, the only possible one, of common equality? He might find
himself crippled for life; he believed verily, the more he thought, that that was what was
before him. But be ended by seeing this doom in the almost redeeming light of the fact that
it would all have been because he was, comparatively, too aristocratic. Yes, a man in his station
couldn't afford to carry that so far--it must sooner or later, in one way or another, spell
ruin. Never mind--it was the only thing he could be. Of course he should exquisitely suffer--but
when hadn't he exquisitely suffered? How was he going to get through life by any arrangement
without that? No wonder such a woman as Kate Cookham had been keen to annex so rare a value.
The right thing would have been that the highest price should be paid for it--by such a different
sort of logic from this nightmare of his having to pay.

II

Which was the way, of course, he talked to Nan Drury--as he had felt the immediate wild need
to do; for he should perhaps be able to bear it all somehow or other with her--while they sat
together, when time and freedom served, on one of the very last, the far westward, benches
of the interminable sea-front. It wasn't every one who walked so far, especially at that flat
season--the only ghost of a bustle now, save for the gregarious, the obstreperous haunters
of the fluttering, far-shining Pier, being reserved for the sunny Parade of midwinter. It wasn't
every one who cared for the sunsets (which you got awfully well from there and which were a
particular strong point of the lower, the more "sympathetic," as Herbert Dodd liked to call
it, Properley horizon) as he had always intensely cared, and as he had found Nan Drury care;
to say nothing of his having also observed how little they directly spoke to Miss Cookham.
He had taught this oppressive companion to notice them a bit, as he had taught her plenty of
other things, but that was a different matter; for the reason that the "land's end" (stretching
a point it carried off that name) had been, and had had to be, by their lack of more sequestered
resorts and conveniences, the scene of so much of what she styled their wooing-time--or, to
put it more properly, of the time during which she had made the straightest and most unabashed
love to him: just as it could henceforth but render possible, under an equal rigour, that he
should enjoy there periods of consolation from beautiful, gentle, tender-souled Nan, to whom
he was now at last, after the wonderful way they had helped each other to behave, going to
make love, absolutely unreserved and abandoned, absolutely reckless and romantic love, a refuge
from poisonous reality, as hard as ever he might.

The league-long, paved, lighted, garden-plotted, seated and refuged Marina renounced its more
or less celebrated attractions to break off short here; and an inward curve of the kindly westward
shore almost made a wide-armed bay, with all the ugliness between town and country, and the
further casual fringe of the coast, turning, as the day waned, to rich afternoon blooms of
grey and brown and distant--it might fairly have been beautiful Hampshire--blue. Here it was
that, all that blighted summer, with Nan--from the dreadful May-day on--he gave himself up
to the reaction of intimacy with the kind of woman, at least, that he liked; even if of everything
else that might make life possible he was to be, by what he could make out, forever starved.
Here it was that--as well as on whatever other scraps of occasions they could manage--Nan began
to take off and fold up and put away in her pocket her pretty, dotty, becoming veil; as under
the logic of his having so tremendously ceased, in the shake of his dark storm-gust, to be
engaged to another woman. Her removal of that obstacle to a trusted friend's assuring himself
whether the peachlike bloom' of her finer facial curves bore the test of such further inquiry
into their cool sweetness as might reinforce a mere baffled gaze--her momentous, complete surrender
of so much of her charm, let us say, both marked the change in the situation of the pair and
established the record of their perfect observance of every propriety for so long before. They
afterward in fact could have dated it, their full clutch of their freedom and the bliss of
their having so little henceforth to consider save their impotence, their poverty, their ruin;
dated it from the hour of his recital to her of the--at the first blush--quite appalling upshot
of his second and conclusive "scene of violence" with the mistress of his fortune, when the
dire terms of his release had had to be formally, and oh! so abjectly, acceded to. She "compromised,"
the cruel brute, for Four Hundred Pounds down--for not a farthing less would she stay her strength
from "proceedings." No jury in the land but would give her six, on the nail ("Oh she knew quite
where she was, thank you!") and he might feel lucky to get off with so whole a skin. This was
the sum, then, for which he had grovellingly compounded--under an agreement sealed by a supreme
exchange of remarks.

"'Where in the name of lifelong ruin are you to find Four Hundred?'" Miss Cookham had mockingly
repeated after him while he gasped as from the twist of her grip on his collar. "That's your
look-out, and I should have thought you'd have made sure you knew before you decided on your
base perfidy." And then she had mouthed and minced, with ever so false a gentility, her consistent,
her sickening conclusion. "Of course--I may mention again--if you too distinctly object to
the trouble of looking, you know where to find me."

"I had rather starve to death than ever go within a mile of you!" Herbert described himself
as having sweetly answered; and that was accordingly where they devotedly but desperately were--he
and she, penniless Nan Drury. Her father, of Drury & Dean, was, like so far too many other
of the anxious characters who peered through the dull window-glass of dusty offices at Properley,
an Estate and House Agent, Surveyor, Valuer and Auctioneer; she was the prettiest of six, with
two brothers, neither of the least use, but, thanks to the manner in which their main natural
protector appeared to languish under the accumulation of his attributes, they couldn't be said
very particularly or positively to live. Their continued collective existence was a good deal
of a miracle even to themselves, though they had fallen into the way of not unnecessarily,
or too nervously, exchanging remarks upon it, and had even in a sort, from year to year, got
used to it. Nan's brooding pinkness when he talked to her, her so very parted lips, considering
her pretty teeth, her so very parted eyelids, considering her pretty eyes, all of which might
have been those of some waxen image of uncritical faith, cooled the heat of his helplessness
very much as if he were laying his head on a tense silk pillow. She had, it was true, forms
of speech, familiar watchwords, that affected him as small scratchy perforations of the smooth
surface from within; but his pleasure in her and need of her were independent of such things
and really almost altogether determined by the fact of the happy, even if all so lonely, forms
and instincts in her which claimed kinship with his own. With her natural elegance stamped
on her as by a die, with her dim and disinherited individual refinement of grace, which would
have made any one wonder who she was anywhere--hat and veil and feather-boa and smart umbrella-knob
and all--with her regular God-given distinction of type, in fine, she couldn't abide vulgarity
much more than he could.

Therefore it didn't seem to him, under his stress, to matter particularly, for instance, if
she would keep on referring so many things to the time, as she called it, when she came into
his life--his own great insistence and contention being that she hadn't in the least entered
there till his mind was wholly made up to eliminate his other friend. What that methodical
fury was so fierce to bring home to him was the falsity to herself involved in the later acquaintance;
whereas just his precious right to hold up his head to everything--before himself at least--sprang
from the fact that she couldn't make dates fit anyhow. He hadn't so much as heard of his true
beauty's existence (she had come back but a few weeks before from her two years with her terribly
trying deceased aunt at Swindon, previous to which absence she had been an unnoticeable chit)
till days and days, ever so many, upon his honour, after he had struck for freedom by his great
first backing-out letter--the precious document, the treat for a British jury, in which, by
itself, Miss Cookham's firm instructed her to recognise the prospect of a fortune. The way
the ruffians had been "her" ruffians--it appeared as if she had posted them behind her from
the first of her beginning her game!--and the way "instructions" bounced out, with it, at a
touch, larger than life, as if she had arrived with her pocket full of them! The date of the
letter, taken with its other connections, and the date of her first give-away for himself,
his seeing her get out of the Brighton train with Bill Frankle that day he had gone to make
the row at the Station parcels' office about the miscarriage of the box from Wales--those were
the facts it sufficed him to point to, as he had pointed to them for Nan Drury's benefit, goodness
knew, often and often enough. If he didn't seek occasion to do so for any one else's--in open
court as they said--that was his own affair, or at least his and Nan's.

It little mattered, meanwhile, if on their bench of desolation, all that summer--and it may
be added for summers and summers, to say nothing of winters, there and elsewhere, to come--she
did give way to her artless habit of not contradicting him enough, which led to her often trailing
up and down before him, too complacently, the untimely shreds and patches of his own glooms
and desperations. "Well, I'm glad I am in your life, terrible as it is, however or whenever
I did come in!" and "Of course you'd rather have starved--and it seems pretty well as if we
shall, doesn't it?--than have bought her off by a false, abhorrent love, wouldn't you?" and
"It isn't as if she hadn't made up to you the way she did before you had so much as looked
at her, is it? or as if you hadn't shown her what you felt her really to be before you had
so much as looked at me, is it either?" and "Yes, how on earth, pawning the shoes on your feet,
you're going to raise another shilling--that's what you want to know, poor darling, don't you?"

III

His creditor, at the hour it suited her, transferred her base of operations to town, to which
impenetrable scene she had also herself retired; and his raising of the first Two Hundred,
during five exasperated and miserable months, and then of another Seventy piecemeal, bleedingly,
after long delays and under the epistolary whiplash cracked by the London solicitor in his
wretched ear even to an effect of the very report of Miss Cookham's tongue--these melancholy
efforts formed a scramble up an arduous steep where steps were planted and missed, and bared
knees were excoriated, and clutches at wayside tufts succeeded and failed, on a system to which
poor Nan could have intelligently entered only if she had been somehow less ladylike. She kept
putting into his mouth the sick quaver of where he should find the rest, the always inextinguishable
rest, long after he had in silent rage fallen away from any further payment at all--at first,
he had but too blackly felt, for himself, to the still quite possible non-exclusion of some
penetrating ray of "exposure." He didn't care a tuppenny damn now, and in point of fact, after
he had by hook and by crook succeeded in being able to unload to the tune of Two-Hundred-and-Seventy,
and then simply returned the newest reminder of his outstanding obligation unopened, this latter
belated but real sign of fight, the first he had risked, remarkably caused nothing at all to
happen; nothing at least but his being moved to quite tragically rueful wonder as to whether
exactly some such demonstration mightn't have served his turn at an earlier stage.

He could by this time at any rate measure his ruin--with three fantastic mortgages on his house,
his shop, his stock, and a burden of interest to carry under which his business simply stretched
itself inanimate, without strength for a protesting kick, without breath for an appealing groan.
Customers lingering for further enjoyment of the tasteful remarks he had cultivated the unobstrusive
art of throwing in, would at this crisis have found plenty to repay them, might his wit have
strayed a little more widely still, toward a circuitous egotistical outbreak, from the immediate
question of the merits of this and that author or of the condition of this and that volume.
He had come to be conscious through it all of strangely glaring at people when they tried to
haggle--and not, as formerly, with the glare of derisive comment on their overdone humour,
but with that of fairly idiotised surrender--as if they were much mistaken in supposing, for
the sake of conversation, that he might take himself for saveable by the difference between
sevenpence and ninepence. He watched everything impossible and deplorable happen as in an endless
prolongation of his nightmare; watched himself proceed, that is, with the finest, richest incoherence,
to the due preparation of his catastrophe. Everything came to seem equally part of this--in
complete defiance of proportion; even his final command of detachment, on the bench of desolation
(where each successive fact of his dire case regularly cut itself out black, yet of senseless
silhouette, against the red west) in respect to poor Nan's flat infelicities, which for the
most part kept no pace with the years or with change, but only shook like hard peas in a child's
rattle, the same peas a ways, of course, so long as the rattle didn't split open with usage
or from somebody's act of irritation. They represented, or they had long done so, her contribution
to the more superficial of the two branches of intimacy--the intellectual alternative, the
one that didn't merely consist of her preparing herself for his putting his arm round her waist.

There were to have been moments, nevertheless, all the first couple of years, when she did
touch in him, though to his actively dissimulating it, a more or less sensitive nerve--moments
as they were too, to do her justice, when she treated him not to his own wisdom, or even folly,
served up cold, but to a certain small bitter fruit of her personal, her unnatural, plucking.
"I wonder that since she took legal advice so freely, to come down on you, you didn't take
it yourself, a little, before being so sure you stood no chance. Perhaps your people would
have been sure of something quite different--perhaps, I only say, you know." She "only" said
it, but she said it, none the less, in the early time, about once a fortnight. In the later,
and especially after their marriage, it had a way of coming up again to the exclusion, as it
seemed to him, of almost everything else; in fact during the most dismal years, the three of
the loss of their two children, the long stretch of sordid embarrassment ending in her death,
he was afterward to think of her as having generally said it several times a day. He was then
also to remember that his answer, before she had learnt to discount it, had been inveterately
at hand: "What would any solicitor have done or wanted to do but drag me just into the hideous
public arena"--he had always so put it--"that it has been at any rate my pride and my honour,
the one rag of self-respect covering my nakedness, to have loathed and avoided from every point
of view?"

That had disposed of it so long as he cared, and by the time he had ceased to care for anything
it had also lost itself in the rest of the vain babble of home. After his wife's death, during
his year of mortal solitude, it awoke again as an echo of far-off things--far-off, very far-off,
because he felt then not ten but twenty years older. That was by reason simply of the dead
weight with which his load of debt had settled--the persistence of his misery dragging itself
out. With all that had come and gone the bench of desolation was still there, just as the immortal
flush of the westward sky kept hanging its indestructible curtain. He had never got away--everything
had left him, but he himself had been able to turn his back on nothing--and now, his day's
labour before a dirty desk at the Gas Works ended, he more often than not, almost any season
at temperate Properley serving his turn, took his slow straight way to the Land's End and,
collapsing there to rest, sat often for an hour at a time staring before him. He might in these
sessions, with his eyes on the grey-green sea, have been counting again and still recounting
the beads, almost all worn smooth, of his rosary of pain--which had for the fingers of memory
and the recurrences of wonder the same felt break of the smaller ones by the larger that would
have aided a pious mumble in some dusky altar-chapel.

If it has been said of him that when once full submersion, as from far back, had visibly begun
to await him, he watched himself, in a cold lucidity, do punctually and necessarily each of
the deplorable things that were inconsistent with his keeping afloat, so at present again he
might have been held agaze just by the presented grotesqueness of that vigil. Such ghosts of
dead seasons were all he had now to watch--such a recaptured sense for instance as that of
the dismal unavailing awareness that had attended his act of marriage. He had let submersion
final and absolute become the signal for it--a mere minor determinant having been the more
or less contemporaneously unfavourable effect on the business of Drury & Dean of the sudden
disappearance of Mr. Dean with the single small tin box into which the certificates of the
firm's credit had been found to be compressible. That had been his only form--or had at any
rate seemed his only one. He couldn't not have married, no doubt, just as he couldn't not have
suffered the last degree of humiliation and almost of want, or just as his wife and children
couldn't not have died of the little he was able, under dire reiterated pinches, to do for
them; but it was "rum," for final solitary brooding, that he hadn't appeared to see his way
definitely to undertake the support of a family till the last scrap of his little low-browed,
high-toned business, and the last figment of "property" in the old tiled and timbered shell
that housed it, had been sacrificed to creditors mustering six rows deep.

Of course what had counted too in the odd order was that even at the end of the two or three
years he had "allowed" her, Kate Cookham, gorged with his unholy tribute, had become the subject
of no successful siege on the part either of Bill Frankle or, by what he could make out, of
any one else. She had judged decent--he could do her that justice--to take herself personally
out of his world, as he called it, for good and all, as soon as he had begun regularly to bleed;
and, to whatever lucrative practice she might be devoting her great talents in London or elsewhere,
he felt his conscious curiosity about her as cold, with time, as the passion of vain protest
that she had originally left him to. He could recall but two direct echoes of her in all the
bitter years--both communicated by Bill Frankle, disappointed and exposed and at last quite
remarkably ingenuous sneak, who had also, from far back, taken to roaming the world, but who,
during a period, used fitfully and ruefully to reappear. Herbert Dodd had quickly seen, at
their first meeting--every one met every one sooner or later at Properley, if meeting it could
always be called, either in the glare or the gloom of the explodedly attractive Embankment--that
no silver stream of which he himself had been the remoter source could have played over the
career of this all but repudiated acquaintance. That hadn't fitted with his first, his quite
primitive raw vision of the probabilities, and he had further been puzzled when, much later
on, it had come to him in a roundabout way that Miss Cookham was supposed to be, or to have
been, among them for a few days "on the quiet," and that Frankle, who had seen her and who
claimed to know more about it than he said, was cited as authority for the fact. But he hadn't
himself at this juncture seen Frankle; he had only wondered, and a degree of mystification
had even remained.

That memory referred itself to the dark days of old Drury's smash, the few weeks between his
partner's dastardly flight and Herbert's own comment on it in the form of his standing up with
Nan for the nuptial benediction of the Vicar of St. Bernard's on a very cold, bleak December
morning and amid a circle of seven or eight long-faced, red-nosed and altogether dowdy persons.
Poor Nan herself had come to affect him as scarce other than red-nosed and dowdy by that time,
but this only added, in his then, and indeed in his lasting view, to his general and his particular
morbid bravery. He had cultivated ignorance, there were small inward immaterial luxuries he
could scrap-pily cherish even among other, and the harshest, destitutions; and one of them
was represented by this easy refusal of his mind to render to certain passages of his experience,
to various ugly images, names, associations, the homage of continued attention. That served
him, that helped him; but what happened when, a dozen dismal years having worn themselves away,
he sat single and scraped bare again, as if his long wave of misfortune had washed him far
beyond everything and then conspicuously retreated, was that, thus stranded by tidal action,
deposited in the lonely hollow of his fate, he felt even sustaining pride turn to nought and
heard no challenge from it when old mystifications, stealing forth in the dusk of the day's
work done, scratched at the door of speculation and hung about, through the idle hours, for
irritated notice.

The evenings of his squalid clerkship were all leisure now, but there was nothing at all near
home on the other hand, for his imagination, numb and stiff from its long chill, to begin to
play with. Voices from far off would quaver to him therefore in the stillness; where he knew
for the most recurrent, little by little, the faint wail of his wife. He had become deaf to
it in life, but at present, after so great an interval, he listened again, listened and listened,
and seemed to hear it sound as by the pressure of some weak broken spring. It phrased for his
ear her perpetual question, the one she had come to at the last as under the obsession of a
discovered and resented wrong, a wrong withal that had its source much more in his own action
than anywhere else. "That you didn't make sure she could have done anything, that you didn't
make sure and that you were too afraid!"--this commemoration had ended by playing such a part
of Nan's finally quite contracted consciousness as to exclude everything else.

At the time, somehow, he had made his terms with it; he had then more urgent questions to meet
than that of the poor creature's taste in worrying pain; but actually it struck him--not the
question, but the fact itself of the taste--as the one thing left over from all that had come
and gone. So it was; nothing remained to him in the world, on the bench of desolation, but
the option of taking up that echo--together with an abundance of free time for doing so. That
he hadn't made sure of what might and what mightn't have been done to him, that he had been
too afraid--had the proposition a possible bearing on his present apprehension of things? To
reply indeed he would have had to be able to say what his present apprehension of things, left
to itself, amounted to; an uninspiring effort indeed he judged it, sunk to so poor a pitch
was his material of thought--though it might at last have been the feat he sought to perform
as he stared at the grey-green sea.

IV

It was seldom he was disturbed in any form of sequestered speculation, or that at his times
of predilection, especially that of the long autumn blankness between the season of trippers
and the season of Bath-chairs, there were westward stragglers enough to jar upon his settled
sense of priority. For himself his seat, the term of his walk, was consecrated; it had figured
to him for years as the last (though there were others, not immediately near it, and differently
disposed, that might have aspired to the title); so that he could invidiously distinguish as
he approached, make out from a distance any accident of occupation, and never draw nearer while
that unpleasantness lasted. What he disliked was to compromise on his tradition, whether for
a man, a woman or a connoodling couple; it was to idiots of this last composition he most objected,
he having sat there, in the past, alone, having sat there interminably with Nan, having sat
there with--well, with other women when women, at hours of ease, could still care or count
for him, but having never shared the place with any shuffling or snuffling stranger. It was
a world of fidgets and starts, however, the world of his present dreariness--he alone possessed
in it, he seemed to make out, of the secret, of the dignity of sitting still with one's fate;
so that if he took a turn about or rested briefly elsewhere even foolish philanderers--though
this would never have been his and Nan's way--ended soon by some adjournment as visibly pointless
as their sprawl. Then, their backs turned, he would drop down on it, the bench of desolation--which
was what he, and he only, made it by sad adoption; where, for that matter, moreover, once he
had settled at his end, it was marked that nobody else ever came to sit. He saw people, along
the Marina, take this liberty with other resting presences; but his own struck them perhaps
in general as either of too grim or just of too dingy a vicinage. He might have affected the
fellow-lounger as a man evil, unsociable, possibly engaged in working out the idea of a crime;
or otherwise, more probably--for on the whole he surely looked harmless--devoted to the worship
of some absolutely unpractical remorse.

On a certain October Saturday he had got off, as usual, early; but the afternoon light, his
pilgrimage drawing to its aim, could still show him, at long range, the rare case of an established
usurper. His impulse was then, as by custom, to deviate a little and wait, all the more that
the occupant of the bench was a lady, and that ladies, when alone, were--at that austere end
of the varied frontal stretch--markedly discontinuous; but he kept on at sight of this person's
rising, while he was still fifty yards off, and proceeding, her back turned, to the edge of
the broad terrace, the outer line of which followed the interspaced succession of seats and
was guarded by an iron rail from the abruptly lower level of the beach. Here she stood before
the sea, while our friend on his side, recognising no reason to the contrary, sank into the
place she had quitted. There were other benches, eastward and off by the course of the drive,
for vague ladies. The lady indeed thus thrust upon Herbert's vision might have struck an observer
either as not quite vague or as vague with a perverse intensity suggesting design.

Not that our own observer at once thought of these things; he only took in, and with no great
interest, that the obtruded presence was a "real" lady; that she was dressed--he noticed such
matters--with a certain elegance of propriety or intention of harmony; and that she remained
perfectly still for a good many minutes; so many in fact that he presently ceased to heed her,
and that as she wasn't straight before him, but as far to the left as was consistent with his
missing her profile, he had turned himself to one of his sunsets again (though it wasn't quite
one of his best) and let it hold him for a time that enabled her to alter her attitude and
present a fuller view. Who says extension-all,
it contradicts the terms, and yet this is reduced to the view we're talking.

[46.] If a room is reduced to nothing all that it contains, it seems that the walls can not be distant.
The idea of ​​distance, including a medium between objects: nothing can not be a means, is
nothing. If the delay is nothing, no distance, they will be empty words. To say that nothing can
own property, to destroy all ideas, is to affirm the possibility of being and not being at the
same moment, and thus subvert the foundations of human knowledge.

[47.] To say that all content is annihilating negative space, is to play with words and leave
standing the same difficulty. This negative space is something or nothing, if anything, falls are
fighting opinion, if anything, the challenge remains the same.

[48.] If the answer is that in spite of not getting anything between the surfaces, they nevertheless
left with the ability to contain, observe that this capability is not on the surfaces same,
but the distances between: otherwise arranged in any way the surfaces always retain the same capacity,
which is absurd. We therefore advance a step: need to explain what
that capacity, that distance, the question is still intact.

[49.] Perhaps you could replicate that wiped contained within the surfaces, not volume is destroyed
that form, and the idea of ​​this volume enters the building.

But I reply that the idea of ​​wrapping volume away, for if it does not exist, no volume, and there
is no such distance, if distance is a mere nothing.

[50.] Pondering to release these difficulties so hurry, think of a specific response at first
sight, but well considered, is as futile as the others. The distance, we say, is a sheer denial of
contact, the denial is pure nothing, then we have nothing with this what we want. I repeat that
this solution is as futile as the other: for if the distance is nothing but the denial of contact
distances no greater or less, all are equal; since in having denial
of contact, and be all you can be.

The same exists denial of contact between two surfaces that are far each one millionth of a line
like a million miles. This denial then, nothing explains the same problem continues to exist.

[51.]
Far from the idea of ​​distance can be explained by the contact, as its opposite, On the contrary,
the contact can only be explained by the distance. If you ask what is the proximity of two surfaces,
as explained by the immediacy, we say that touch because there is nothing between the two, because
there is no distance. In the idea of ​​contact the relative qualities do not come to the senses,
nor of the action that one contiguous bodies can exert over another, such as momentum or compression:
contiguity is a negative idea, purely geometrical: it contains nothing but denial away. Contiguity
has no more no less, for all that may be, it is enough that no distance is a real denial. Two things
can be more or less distant: but can not be played more or less, with respect to a same parties.
What can be is more contact points, but no further contact between
the same points.

[52.] Strive but the argument for the reality of space, on the assumption
that are attributed to capacity and distance.

Suppose an area of ​​two feet in diameter, entirely empty. Within that space is not over: if space
is nothing, nothing left.

I ask now: in the interior of the hollow sphere is it possible the movement? It seems certain; there
is no reason, there is a movable body, there is a greater extent than the body, no distance
to go. In addition, if the movement is not possible, it would be impossible also that the area
is filled with any body, after being empty, and emptying into being full. Neither empty nor filled
can be no movement of bodies in the interior of the sphere, and this movement is not a body
within another body, but in space: 1. º For the bodies are impenetrable: 2. No. Because when
it fills the area after having been empty, the body can not find
another body goes, and whoever comes out when the field is empty,
it moves through space it leaves, in which nothing but himself, and
nothing remains in dating him.

After assuming a hollow sphere, within it there can be movement. Now, if the content space is a pure
nothing, the movement is also nothing, and therefore does not exist. The movement can not exist
nor be conceived, but walking distance; this is essence, if the distance is nothing, anything goes,
then no motion. What will it mean the body has traveled half the diameter, or one foot? If this
is nothing, no mean nothing.

I do not know what to respond to all these good reasons in that axiom: nothing has no property.

[53.]
However great the difficulties are refusing to give the space a reality, I do not reach that
can be as serious as those which militate against anything, on the assumption one wishes to grant
extension. Those, as we shall see, lie rather in certain problems born out of our way of thinking, that
based on sound reasons; when we have just proposed are based on the ideas that underlie all knowledge:
in that most unquestionable proposition: nothing has no properties. If this proposition is not
admitted as incontrovertible axiom goes awry all human knowledge, including the principle
of contradiction: for obvious contradiction is that nothing has any property or parties, that nothing
can say anything, that nothing can move anything that the idea of ​​nothing can be founded
a science as geometry, that refer to nothing all calculations are made on the nature.

CHAPTER VIII.

OPINION Descartes and Leibniz, ON THE SPACE.

[54.] If space is something, what is? Here is another very serious difficulty: to combat the
opponents have been easy to hold the position you choose, not be so. Could it be said that
space is nothing but the same extension of bodies, which conceived
abstract, which gives an idea of ​​what we call pure space, and that
the diversity of points and positions, are but modifications of the
extension?

As soon as you see that if the space is the same extension of bodies, where there will be no blank
body. Then a vacuum is impossible. This result is inevitable.

So two philosophers have thought so egregious as Descartes and Leibnitz, but do not know why
both wanted to point out to the universe an indefinite extension. It is true that this sort
eluded difficult to imagine the spaces beyond the limits of the universe, then that if the universe
is limited, there can be nothing out of bounds, and therefore everything
We can imagine is within the universe.

But this is not to circumvent the difficulties but releasing them, for a review to avoid a
hard drive, nothing is in favor of strength.

[55.] According to Descartes the essence of body consists in extension, and as in space extension
conceived out of necessity, it follows that body, extension and space,
are three things essentially identical.

The vacuum as usually conceived, is an extension or space without a body, is something contradictory
as that body is to assume, therefore that extension means, and no body, therefore it is supposed
to removed.

Descartes simply accept the ultimate consequences of this doctrine. Thus, proposing the difficulty
Founded in which we imagine that God could remove all matter contained in a glass, staying
the same shape of the glass, answered firmly that this is impossible. "For we can, he says, correcting
an opinion so false, we see that there is no necessary link between the glass and body that
you full, but it is so absolutely necessary between concave glass figure, and the extension
must be included in this concavity, which there is more reluctance to conceive a mountain
without a valley, that such an extension without the concavity it contains, and this extension
without any extended thing, because it's nothing, as has been observed many times, can not have
extension. For which reason, if we are asked What would happen if God removed the whole body
is in a glass, without allowing enter another answer to the sides of this vessel would be
found so close, that would play immediately.

For two bodies must touch when there is nothing between them, it would be contradiction in these two
bodies were apart, ie have distance from each other, and that this distance was not anything. Distance
is a extension property that can not exist without the extension "(Princ. of Filos. p. 2. § 18).

[56.]
If cinemas Descartes argued that space, because it contains real distances can not be a pure nothing,
its reasoning would seem conclusive, but when he adds that the space is the body, for the reason that
space extension and the extension is the essence the body, seat does not prove a thing. They
do not conceive or imagine body without extension, only follows that the extension is a property
of the body, without which we will not conceive, but not that is its essence. To be sure of this,
it would be necessary as we have the idea of ​​extension, the body
we had also to see if among them are identity.

But the bodies we know nothing but what we experienced through the senses, without being there
been given to penetrate the intimate nature.

Where does the inseparability of the extension and body ideas? Born from the idea that body we have
is a confused idea, as conceived as a substance that is a relationship with us, and because the
impressions we call sensations. And as we have shown above, the basis of feelings is the extension,
this is the only conduit through which we put ourselves in relation to the body. When this
base we need, because without it, we have no body but a general idea of ​​being, or of substance,
not anything that characterizes and distinguishes him from the rest.

All these things are in the order of our ideas, but we can not infer that the bodies themselves
did not actually nothing more than extension.

[57.] With the same reasoning is destroyed the opinion of the infinite or indefinite extension. Descartes
unwrapping his doctrine on the idea of ​​extension, said: "We will know too this world, or the
extended matter that makes up the universe has no limits: because where we propose to pretend
they want, we can imagine further, spaces indefinitely extended,
not only imagine, but we conceive to be such in fact as we imagine;
of luck containing an extensive body indefinitely, because the idea
of ​​extension which we conceive in all space, is the true idea that
we have the body "(ib. p. 2.

§ 21).

In this passage, but the error on the essence of bodies, there is free transit of a purely ideal,
or rather imaginary, to a real order. It is true that wherever I imagine the limits of the universe
as an immense dome, denying, still imagine outside the dome new wastes of space that my fantasy
is submerged, but this infer that the reality is as I imagine, does not seem very tight to the
rules of sound logic. If this is as clear as Descartes supposed, it is not just imagination,
but concepcion based on clear and distinct ideas, how is that many
philosophers are not at all this more than a game of imagination?

[58.] Leibniz says that space is "a relation, an order, not only among existing things but
among the possible, as if they exist "(New Essays on the understanding
human, Lib.

2, chap. 13, § 17). Cree also that the vacuum is impossible, but not based on the reason of
Descartes. These are his words.

"Philalethes. Those who take the field and the extension for the same thing, pretend that interior
walls of a hollow, empty body be touched, but the space between two bodies is sufficient to
prevent mutual contact.

"Theophilo. I would argue the same way: when I not support empty distinction matter of extension, and
I confess that if I had a vacuum in a sphere, so it would touch the opposites. But I think
that this case does not support the divine perfection "(ib.

§. 21).

[59.] I think that Leibniz makes in this passage a petition of principle. Said that the Of course
if the walls would not be touched, because the space between them sufficient to prevent it; but
this is precisely what has to be proved: the actual existence of this space. This is which denies
Descartes.

[60.] Comparing the views of Descartes and Leibniz, one can see that both agree to deny to space a reality
distinct from the bodies, but based its opinion on matters very different. Descartes puts
the essence of the body in extension, where extension is body: where
there is space extension: therefore there can be no vacuum.

Leibnitz not inherently create an empty capacity absurd, and if not supported, it is because,
in his opinion, repugnant to the divine perfection. The two famous philosophers came to the same
starting point very different principles: Descartes lies in metaphysical reasons, based on
the essence of things, Leibniz does not rely on the absolute essence, but in its relations with
the perfection divine. The empty capacity, was not contradictory feelings of Leibnitz, but as
soon as opposed to optimism.

[61.] Since it is rather remarkable that three such distinguished
philosophers as Aristotle, Descartes and Leibniz, have agreed to deny
the existence of this capability is called space considered as being
different from the bodies, and which can exist without them.

The diversity of their opinions only proves that at the bottom of the matter is a difficult thing
more serious than some ideologues seem to believe that so easily explain the idea space and their
generation, as if it were simple things.

CHAPTER IX.

OPINION OF THE SPACE THAT ATTRIBUTED TO A DIFFERENT KIND OF BODIES.

[62.] By the above considerations, it seems little short of demonstrating
the contradiction enclosing a space-anything.

If it is a capacity, with dimensions that can actually measure, has real property, and therefore
is not a pure nothing. We have idea of ​​space; it combines a science as true, as obvious as the geometry,
this idea we is also necessary to design the motion. This idea can not match a mere nothing.

"The
space will be somewhat different from the same extension of bodies? In this opinion objetársele
usually holds that space must be either body or spirit if not body is spirit, which is contradictory
because it is essentially composed of parts, as space can not be
simple and spirit.

Strong reasons militate against the opinion which gives the space a different nature the body,
but I do not think much of that I have proposed, for in denying the
alternative, The whole argument is ruined.

How do I test that there is no medium between body and spirit? No way. Also, do not know the
essence of the body, not the spirit, what we claim the right to assert that there is nothing
in the universe than one of these extreme nature of which is unknown to us?

[63.] Reply that there is middle ground between simple and compound, and not between the other
and not, and that therefore there is no medium between the body that
is composed, and spirit is simple.

I agree that there is no middle ground between simple and compound, and that everything that exists
is one or the other, but not everything is composed of body, spirit and everything simple.

This proposition: "Every body is made" is not identical to this: "Each compound is body. "Then there
may be compounds that are not bodies.

The composition, having parties, is a property of the body, but this is not its essence, or
at least we know. Otherwise it would be necessary to embrace the opinion of Descartes, that the
essence of the body the extension is. What is known about whether there may be things that have parts
and not are body?

[64.] Note that the very state of the question to us assume the space as a substance, that is
subsisting by itself, regardless of the inherent other being: therefore, having released the difficulty
in this course, as is the case more difficult, and therefore at all. Moreover, assuming that space distinct
from the body, yet true reality would pose serious substance indispensable, since they are
not inherent to nothing.

[65.] To explain what I have said that to be a simple thing need not be spirit, observe that:
"Every spirit is simple" is not the same as "everything is simple spirit." Simplicity is necessary
to the spirit, but not its essence. The idea of ​​simple, explicit denial of parts, and the
essence of the spirit can not consist of a denial.

[66.] Against the opinion which gives the space a different kind of
body into an extended substance, does not seem worth the argument
that there wanted to deduct its infinity, because even in this case,
there is no objection to point out a limit.

What then beyond? nothing. We conceive extension still vague, but
the imagination Not really.

Also imagine the same thing referring to a time that we figured before the creation of the
world: if they try on something in the imagination for the many the world, would prove also for
its eternity.

And here remember that the arguments with which I have fought the space-anything, do not lie
in we imagine, but that is impossible for nothing is extension, or have any property. This capital
is the reason I challenged those who claim to be possible are designed and there are properties
that are attributed to space, and yet space a pure nothing.

CHAPTER X.

OPINION OF THOSE WHO BELIEVE THAT THE SPACE IS the immensity of God.

[67.] Overwhelmed by some philosophers such serious difficulties, unable to reconcile with
the anything that actually offered us space, nor conceive any created thing, immobility, infinity,
perpetuity and imagined space, have said that the space was the very immensity of God. This
at first sight seems an absurd extravagance, but but then prove the falsity of this opinion, it is
necessary to do justice not only straight to the intention of those who have sustained, healthy
and sought explanations that take hand, but also the reason that led to such an extent, by the
way, but nothing solid, Nor is negligible.

[68.] Here is how to reason in favor of this opinion. Space is something.
Before God nourishing the world, there was space.

It is conceivable that there are bodies without extending space. Before there, we think that capacity
that can be placed: then the space is eternal. No movement out of space, and in the first instant
of being raised bodies, were unable to move and move.

Although not involve more than one body in the world could move, and this movement may extend
to infinity. Then space is infinite. If God annihilate the whole universe, at least one body,
this body could also move in all directions, extended to infinity.
If it were then reduced to nothing the one body, the extension would
stay in that movie: it could create new bodies, new worlds. Then the
space is indestructible. An eternal, infinite, indestructible, can
not be raised, then the space is uncreated. Then it is God himself.
Then must be God as we understood with relation to the extension,
then the space is the immensity of God. The vastness is that attribute
by which God is everywhere: this attribute is the relationship says
to the Chapter. Space since it is the vastness of God. Adopted this
theory there is no objection to the space infinite, eternal, indestructible.

[69.]
This opinion is against him, which destroys the simplicity of God.
If the space is a property of God, God himself, because everything
in God is God. Then, being essentially extended space, God is also
extensive.

Clarke saw the force of this argument, force also made
him feel the argument Leibnitz opponent, but responds to it in a very
weak. Says that space has parts, but not separate. Then, whether as
may be, does. Herbert had seen things, in his walk of life--rough things,
plenty; but never things smoothed with that especial smoothness, carried out as it were by
the fine form of Captain Roper's own retreat, which included even a bright convulsed leave-taking
cognisance of the plain, vague individual, of no lustre at all and with the very low-class
guard of an old silver watch buttoned away under an ill-made coat, to whom he was sacrificed.

It came to Herbert as he left the place a shade less remarkable--though there was still wonder
enough and to spare--that he had been even publicly and designedly sacrificed; exactly so that,
as the door closed behind him, Kate Cookham, standing there to wait for it, could seem to say,
across the room, to the friend of her youth, only by the expression of her fine eyes: "There--see
what I do for you!" "For" him--that was the extraordinary thing, and not less so that he was
already, within three minutes, after this fashion, taking it in as by the intensity of a new
light; a light that was one somehow with this rich inner air of the plush-draped and much-mirrored
hotel, where the fire-glow and the approach of evening confirmed together the privacy, and
the loose curtains at the wide window were parted for a command of his old lifelong Parade--the
field of life so familiar to him from below and in the wind and the wet, but which he had never
in all the long years hung over at this vantage.

"He's an acquaintance, but a bore," his hostess explained in respect to Captain Roper. "He
turned up yesterday, but I didn't invite him, and I had said to him before you came in that
I was expecting a gentleman with whom I should wish to be alone. I go quite straight at my
idea that way, as a rule; but you know," she now strikingly went on, "how straight I go. And
he had had," she added, "his tea."

Dodd had been looking all round--had taken in, with the rest, the brightness, the distinguished
elegance, as he supposed it, of the tea-service with which she was dealing and the variously
tinted appeal of certain savoury edibles on plates. "Oh but he hadn't had his tea!" he heard
himself the next moment earnestly reply; which speech had at once betrayed, he was then quickly
aware, the candour of his interest, the unsophisticated state that had survived so many troubles.
If he was so interested how could he be proud, and if he was proud how could he be so interested?

He had made her at any rate laugh outright, and was further conscious, for this, both that
it was the first time of that since their new meeting, and that it didn't affect him as harsh.
It affected him, however, as free, for she replied at once, still smiling and as a part of
it: "Oh, I think we shall get on!"

This told him he had made some difference for her, shown her the way, or something like it,
that she hadn't been sure of yesterday; which moreover wasn't what he had intended--he had
come armed for showing her nothing; so that after she had gone on with the same gain of gaiety,
"You must at any rate comfortably have yours," there was but one answer for him to make.

His eyes played again over the tea-things--they seemed strangely to help him; but he didn't
sit down.

"I've come, as you see--but I've come, please, to understand; and if you require to be alone
with me, and if I break bread with you, it seems to me I should first know exactly where I
am and to what you suppose I so commit myself." He had thought it out and over and over, particularly
the turn about breaking bread; though perhaps he didn't give it, in her presence--this was
impossible, her presence altered so many things--quite the full sound or the weight he had planned.

But it had none the less come to his aid--it had made her perfectly grave. "You commit yourself
to nothing. You're perfectly free. It's only I who commit myself."

On which, while she stood there as if all handsomely and deferentially waiting for him to consider
and decide, he would have been naturally moved to ask her what she committed herself then to--so
moved, that is, if he hadn't, before saying it, thought more sharply still of something better.
"Oh, that's another thing."

"Yes, that's another thing," Kate Cookham returned. To which she added, "So now won't you sit
down?" He sank with deliberation into the seat from which Captain Roper had risen; she went
back to her own and while she did so spoke again. "I'm not free. At least," she said over her
tea-tray, "I'm free only for this."

Everything was there before them and around them, everything massive and shining, so that he
had instinctively fallen back in his chair as for the wondering, the resigned acceptance of
it; where her last words stirred in him a sense of odd deprecation. Only for "that"? "That"
was everything, at this moment, to his long inanition, and the effect, as if she had suddenly
and perversely mocked him, was to press the spring of a protest. "Isn't 'this' then riches?"

"Riches?" she smiled over, handing him his cup--for she had triumphed in having struck from
him a question.

"I mean haven't you a lot of money?" He didn't care now that it was out; his cup was in his
hand, and what was that but proved interest? He had succumbed to the social relation.

"Yes, I've money. Of course you wonder--but I've wanted you to wonder. It was to make you take
that in that I came. So now you know," she said, leaning back where she faced him, but in a
straighter chair and with her arms closely folded, after a fashion characteristic of her, as
for some control of her nerves.

"You came to show you've money?"

"That's one of the things. Not a lot--not even very much. But enough," said Kate Cookham.

"Enough? I should think so!" he again couldn't help a bit crudely exhaling.

"Enough for what I wanted. I don't always live like this--not at all. But I came to the best
hotel on purpose. I wanted to show you I could. Now," she asked, "do you understand?"

"Understand?" He only gaped.

She threw up her loosed arms, which dropped again beside her. "I did it for you--I did it for you!"

"'For' me----?"

"What I did--what I did here of old."

He stared, trying to see it. "When you made me pay you?"

"The Two Hundred and Seventy--all I could get from you, as you reminded me yesterday, so that
I had to give up the rest It was my idea," she went on--"it was my idea."

"To bleed me quite to death?" Oh, his ice was broken now!

"To make you raise money--since you could, you could. You did, you did--so what better proof?"

His hands fell from what he had touched; he could only stare--her own manner for it was different
now too. "I did. I did indeed--!" And the woful weak simplicity of it, which seemed somehow
all that was left him, fell even on his own ear.

"Well then, here it is--it isn't lost!" she returned with a graver face.

"'Here' it is," he gasped, "my poor agonised old money--my blood?"

"Oh, it's my blood too, you must know now!" She held up her head as not before--as for her
right to speak of the thing to-day most precious to her. "I took it, but this--my being here
this way--is what I've made of it! That was the idea I had!"

Her "ideas," as things to boast of, staggered him. "To have everything in the world, like this,
at my wretched expense?"

She had folded her arms back again--grasping each elbow she sat firm; she knew he could see,
and had known well from the first, what she had wanted to say, difficult, monstrous though
it might be. "No more than at my own--but to do something with your money that you'd never
do yourself."

"Myself, myself?" he wonderingly wailed. "Do you know--or don't you?--what my life has been?"

She waited, and for an instant, though the light in the room had failed a little more and would
soon be mainly that of the flaring lamps on the windy Parade, he caught from her dark eye a
silver gleam of impatience. "You've suffered and you've worked--which, God knows, is what I've
done! Of course you've suffered," she said--"you inevitably had to! We have to," she went on,
"to do or to be or to get anything."

"And pray what have I done or been or got?" Herbert Dodd found it almost desolately natural
to demand.

It made her cover him again as with all she was thinking of. "Can you imagine nothing, or can't
you conceive--?" And then as her challenge struck deeper in, deeper down than it had yet reached,
and with the effect of a rush of the blood to his face, "It was for you, it was for you!" she
again broke out--"and for what or whom else could it have been?"

He saw things to a tune now that made him answer straight: "I thought at one time it might
be for Bill Frankle."

"Yes--that was the way you treated me," Miss Cookham as plainly replied.

But he let this pass; his thought had already got away from it. "What good then--its having
been for me--has that ever done me?"

"Doesn't it do you any good now?" his friend returned. To which she added, with another dim
play of her tormented brightness, before he could speak: "But if you won't even have your tea----!"

He had in fact touched nothing and, if he could have explained, would have pleaded very veraciously
that his appetite, keen when he came in, had somehow suddenly failed. It was beyond eating
or drinking, what she seemed to want him to take from her. So if he looked, before him, over
the array, it was to say, very grave and graceless: "Am I to understand that you offer to repay
me?"

"I offer to repay you with interest, Herbert Dodd"--and her emphasis of the great word was
wonderful.

It held him in his place a minute, and held his eyes upon her; after which, agitated too sharply
to sit still, he pushed back his chair and stood up. It was as if mere distress or dismay at
first worked in him, and was in fact a wave of deep and irresistible emotion which made him,
on his feet, sway as in a great trouble and then, to correct it, throw himself stiffly toward
the window, where he stood and looked out unseeing. The road, the wide terrace beyond, the
seats, the eternal sea beyond that, the lighted lamps now flaring in the October night-wind,
with the few dispersed people abroad at the tea-hour; these things, meeting and melting into
the firelit hospitality at his elbow--or was it that portentous amenity that melted into them?--seemed
to form round him and to put before him, all together, the strangest of circles and the newest
of experiences, in which the unforgettable and the unimaginable were confoundingly mixed. "Oh,
oh, oh!"--he could only almost howl for it.

And then, while a thick blur for some moments mantled everything, he knew she had got up, that
she stood watching him, allowing for everything, again all "cleverly" patient with him, and
he heard her speak again as with studied quietness and clearness. "I wanted to take care of
you--it was what I first wanted--and what you first consented to. I'd have done it, oh I'd
have done it, I'd have loved you and helped you and guarded you, and you'd have had no trouble,
no bad blighting ruin, in all your easy, yes, just your quite jolly and comfortable life. I
showed you and proved to you this--I brought it home to you, as I fondly fancied, and it made
me briefly happy. You swore you cared for me, you wrote it and made me believe it--you pledged
me your honour and your faith. Then you turned and changed suddenly from one day to another;
everything altered, you broke your vows, you as good as told me you only wanted it off. You
faced me with dislike, and in fact tried not to face me at all; you behaved as if you hated
me--you had seen a girl, of great beauty, I admit, who made me a fright and a bore." And
what we call "the genius of a people", is the set of skills preferably raised by the ideals dominant.
Encouraged those who agree with them, discouraged the they differ, and extended in successive
generations this double process of selection and combined exclusion, leads to the uniformity
of the motives of conduct on established guidelines and the same way as in cattle, slaughtering
those who do not leave the favorite color is achieved even in this the whole herd, and will have
no application skills that have no chance in human groups, they are standardized on those that
do, and the national character is determined by national opportunities.

Defined by their characteristics, Swift said that "English is a political animal and French
social animals ", and it was at that time the political powers were universally inputs in the military,
and only in England communal institutions and parliamentary life political opportunity had been preserved,
which raises the political skills, alongside religious opportunity, who had evacuated to the
Greco-Roman civilization, so so that mental energy, channeled into the two channels, only produced
leaders and saints, castles and monasteries, and ecclesiastical chivalric literature. And there
is no political life in France, there were no more likely to apply to the personal skills war devotion
and gallantry, so that they and we, in the fall of the old regime they lacked the skills for the
new, they were not improvised, because it takes years, at least, to undo or redo the work in the
spirit of the centuries.

Vice versa, creating new opportunities for thought and action, new wake skills, and the series
of capabilities without the application, finding open its pathway, becomes active. This is
what has made the liberal civilization, gradually increasing educated professions, which were only
three in Christian civilization, preacher, lawyer and doctor, and now come to fifty-seven, according
to the computation of Hubbard.

But the funniest is the case of Japan, the European missionaries tried to convert Christianity,
claiming that it came from the superiority of Western nations, and, instead, turned himself
in forty years of liberalism, declining Free offer of the sacred sciences and magical instruments
of the West Bibles, catechisms and the lives of saints, images, relics and scapulars be miraculous,
instead of them, the secular sciences and mechanical instruments, and hygiene and disregard of death,
which already had implemented schools laboratories, railways, steamers, postal and telegraph,
purchased armored built wise, gunpowder, guns and rifles to Europe, and Russia defeated the holy
water and land, with signs and everything.

Neither objective nor subjective improvement may have been unchanged from previous. And Indeed,
the fact that has contributed to the advancement of ancient societies is the same as determined
in the first modern progress: what John M. Robertson, Buckle completing the concept, called "intellectual
change."

The two centers of American civilization, caused by soil fertility in both tropical regions, with two harvests
per year, although they had met to draw some constructions permanent, in temples, of course, and
certain political and social development had not reached to contact, or spread mostly, until
the time of discovery, the lack of the horse, ox, elephant and camel, who contributed so much
in the old world to facilitate the movement of goods and ideas, and played invasions human intelligence
for the job destroyer and fertilizing at the same time, weather storm on the ground.

Finding himself away and isolated from all schools of ancient civilization, and until were brought
into contact with them by the Roman conquest, did not enter the path of progress indigenous populations
of Britain, and being in contact Hellenic tribes with the Egyptians and Phoenicians, and at
the same time in relative isolation for the Mediterranean that allowed them to import their
culture to implant and cultivate in the ground, under political institutions themselves, so
like the Teutonic, according to Freeman, as if from a common origin, in an exceptionally advantageous
to defend of the strange and absorbing their advances, the Greeks gleaned in the fields of others,
selecting existing materials to form a new culture superior to all concurrent that its banned, its merchants
and settlers brought to the archipelago, Italy, to Carthage and Marseille, in Epirus and Macedonia,
and the soldiers of Alexander into Asia and Egypt.

Beginning with a political organization, social and military far outweigh the benefits the geographical
situation of Greece, and benefit from their intellectual progress, the Romans subdued because
they had given their superiority without acquiring them, and owned of the highest achievements of
human understanding, then Rome conquers all countries surrounding, and is mistress of the ancient
world, adjacent to the full savagery in all bearings.

It has been said that "being the best among these is the surest way to get worse", and Indeed,
the individual is now in the position of a body of high temperature among others who have low. Ceding
heat or culture, not receiving them but the reverse, cooling or ignorance, does nothing to
lift the persons, if any, and reduce your own. This is known as environmental influences, particularly
noticeable in the individual in the city that is hearty living in the countryside and the
peasant who urbanizing residing in the city, the school master, giving and not receiving instruction,
is brutish in the noble and fruitful work of "desasnar the people" because, as the lion tamer of beasts
who always sticks something of beasts, as the sweeper gets dirty cleaning the streets, to
transmit force know that they do not, usually run out until be "ignorant comme un maître d'école",
unless constantly replenished by the book magazines and newspapers, they play in our day the craft
of the old Vestal, unquenchable maintaining mental activity, which is the sacred fire of liberal
civilization.

Moral culture is also dependent on the exercise of generosity, love, sympathy, benevolence, fairness,
gentleness, consideration for the sufferings of others; that make the cultivation of cells or the
corresponding connections in the respective bodies, and the spread of the Gospel by the sword without
pity for the suffering of heretics, the Spanish also lost for the faithful, and thus was born the
famous cruelty who knew and learned the Netherlands, Italy and America on the occasion of
the conquest, colonization and emancipation. The treatment of the rough, and rude soldiers of old,
in life border and the war against the savages, visibly lowered the official culture, black is
the treatment of blacks who come from the worst cracks or depressions' moral Americans, and any profession,
or butcher, has ever become so monstrously degraded human character, as the Holy Office of the
Inquisition.

Is that human groups draw their intellectual commerce culture, like individuals educating each
other, so when the Romans had no where to get or who acquire new instruments of culture, bearing in
abundance to those who degrade their own, with sixty millions of barbarians, incorporated into Roman
society as slaves, and, for now, reduced most of the freemen to the miserable condition of slaves
or clients of the rich, ruling the worst that they lowered their ability to govern, in very circumstances
in which an intellectual change of internal origin, began to change political orientation which
subordinated the individual to the "state service" for management theological than subordinated
to the "service of God" on the same or a greater lack of what we now call "human rights", more particularly
marked on the vast province of ecclesiastical jurisdiction, which has cost so much blood, tears,
backwardness and misery, and that this is where our constitution states "reserved for God and free
of authority of judges. "

With the transfer operated by Constantine, the official protection
and income and assets the ancient cult of the new Christianity, as
most genuine and comprehensive is the perfect way sterility of mysticism,
evicts Hellenism and the philosopher, and determines, in effect, a
new intellectual activity, special character, inhibiting any other,
such as Islam, that comes later in the same strain Jew, and also for
drying or sterilizing like this and it the source that have sprung
up, in order to be in the privileged position of child unique understanding
to monopolize all the powers and affections, heir property, cuddles
and honors in the person of its most zealous guardians and therefore
Acceding intellectual unicato Christian revelation preserved to modern
times and Islam to the present.

Intellectual uniformity stalled mental activity of the Arabs at the height of greatness, by reduction
to a common denominator, resulting from the division of thought inampleable a revelation, also weighed
on the Christians during the ten centuries who were forced to the passivity of the believer
forced another revelation insurmountable and is characterized by the most hopeless sterility,
in all areas in which marvelous advances made the modern understanding of the border spent understanding
Old, not postmarked by the Abyssinians still, Maronites, Armenians, the vast majority Russians,
more than half of Spanish and three-quarters of South America, yet enclosed by the credulity into
the fold of faith, while outside, critical achieved and provide a
source of inexhaustible intellectual renewal, whose superiority comes,
precisely from the fact that Brunetière attributed his alleged bankruptcy:
its inability to close in any direction the horizons of the human
spirit with a definitive explanation and impassable.

Just the momentum of the intellectual changes introduced by Muhammad, the Arabs took superstitions
of the time of Abraham, which were frozen, and even led higher than the Christians who, at one
time, had to go to universities Cordoba, Fez and Baghdad, to learn what is still ignored in
yours.

But once past the effects of novelty, as we say today, exhausted and shaking subsided Intellectual
produced by the new doctrine, with the conversion of infidels to the new faith, where again become
entrenched, feeling, thinking and acting all the same way, impulse of the same passions and the
same hopes, all of the components equal spirit, although different in social status, such as different
copies same book in different binding, paperback, medium pasta, material, pasta or leather, with or
no gilt-edged, intellectual trade in their mutual relations, was
reduced to confirmation reciprocal common superstitions, which overheated
and kept in tension indurated fanaticism, reaching effect in our day
the Catholic priests to the missions the fraternities and sororities,
and the Protestants with their revivals.

In the background, was a repeat of the Koran, which the Jews were made on the Talmud and Christians
on the Bible, crucifying all those who dared to look the world without
the blinders made by the respective prophets, to delete the original,
which is the source of differentiation that results in progress.

And so, when Newton, looking down a ripe apple, it was a different reason from the will of God, "was accused
says White, having removed God from direct action on the work assigned Scripture a mechanism
to transfer material and replace gravitation to Providence. "

As he had said: "Seek first God's love and everything else will come yapa "Christian procedure
was to get progress of science by way of innocence, making the removal of sin and the absolute
submission to the Almighty, that ceasing labor imposed as punishment for disobedience of the first
man, and degrading therefore, the bread came from heaven like manna, and wisdom come down from
the clouds, in the form blessings of the Almighty. With the idea of ​​redemption for the sins of men
the sacrifice of a God, and the atonement of evil through suffering
and prayer, together with the assumption that the dead are in greater
need than the living, earning, therefore, more attention, the Church
looked at the sky all that human intelligence is found in soil, by
thought and work rehabilitated ennobled.

And on that plan, the universal teacher of religious culture for semi-barbarous peoples of Europe, the fall
of the Roman Empire, blinding all sources of new thinking and springs of the old, refusing to
learn anything in the blind belief of knowing all confined to the intellectual isolation of his
own doctrine, stagnated in the cult of the dead European culture and the persistent influence
of the remnant of ignorance and barbarism corresponding to the absence
of other forms of culture that she had prevented taking into sin penance,
he became the most barbaric of the powers of Europe.

And as the Muslim culture was not yet arrested in the clash of these two civilizations unilateral,
for the dispute of the Holy Sepulchre, could be that, in ferocity and cruelty useless Christian
warlords eclipsed the Mohammedans, as the Russians to the Japanese in our days.

Finally, in four or five centuries of intellectual food supply of a single species and without allowing
the cultivation of other species, flogging by piety to impiety, to occur the impact of the Reformation
intestine, the teacher of culture for ten centuries had learned a lot and not learned anything,
appears in an intrinsic level of barbarity, not met in ancient times
and is starting to be a source of wonder for future generations, who
can no longer explain or understand the vicars of the Redeemer by
burning alive men and women more virtuous, from Bruno to Joan of Arc,
and pre-opening and wide the Porta Coelum those who enlisted in the
bands of outlaws devoted to torturing men, women and children, Christians
of different guilds mayorem Dey ad gloriam.

 Yet he would dress himself
as he scarce mustered resources for even to figure on the fringe of Society, local and transient,
at St. Bernard's, and in this trim he took his way westward; occupied largely, as he went,
it might have seemed to any person pursuing the same course and happening to observe him, in
a fascinated study of the motions of his shadow, the more or less grotesque shape projected,
in front of him and mostly a bit to the right, over the blanched asphalt of the Parade and
dandling and dancing at such a rate, shooting out and then contracting, that, viewed in themselves,
its eccentricities might have formed the basis of an interesting challenge: "Find the state
of mind, guess the nature of the agitation, possessing the person so remarkably represented!"
Herbert Dodd, for that matter, might have been himself attempting to make by the sun's sharp
aid some approach to his immediate horoscope.

It had at any rate been thus put before him that the dandling and dancing of his image occasionally
gave way to perfect immobility, when he stopped and kept his eyes on it. "Suppose she should
come, suppose she should!" it is revealed at least to ourselves that he had at these moments
audibly breathed--breathed with the intensity of an arrest between hope and fear. It had glimmered
upon him from early, with the look of the day, that, given all else that could happen, this
would be rather, as he put it, in her line; and the possibility lived for him, as he proceeded,
to the tune of a suspense almost sickening. It was, from one small stage of his pilgrimage
to another, the "For ever, never!" of the sentimental case the playmates of his youth used
to pretend to settle by plucking the petals of a daisy. But it came to his truly turning faint--so
"queer" he felt--when, at the gained point of the long stretch from which he could always tell,
he arrived within positive sight of his immemorial goal. His seat was taken and she was keeping
it for him--it could only be she there in possession; whereby it shone out for Herbert Dodd
that if he hadn't been quite sure of her recurrence she had at least been quite sure of his.
That pulled him up to some purpose, where recognition began for them--or to the effect, in
other words, of his pausing to judge if he could bear, for the sharpest note of their intercourse,
this inveterate demonstration of her making him do what she liked. What settled the question
for him then--and just while they avowedly watched each other, over the long interval, before
closing, as if, on either side, for the major advantage--what settled it was this very fact
that what she liked she liked so terribly. If it were simply to "use" him, as she had said
the last time, and no matter to the profit of which of them she called it, one might let it
go for that; since it could make her wait over, day after day, in that fashion, and with such
a spending of money, on the hazard of their meeting again. How could she be the least sure
he would ever again consent to it after the proved action on him, a week ago, of her last monstrous
honesty? It was indeed positively as if he were now himself putting this influence--and for
their common edification--to the supreme, to the finest test. He had a sublime, an ideal flight,
which lasted about a minute. "Suppose, now that I see her there and what she has taken so characteristically
for granted, suppose I just show her that she hasn't only confidently to wait or whistle for
me, and that the length of my leash is greater than she measures, and that everything's impossible
always?--show it by turning my back on her now and walking straight away. She won't be able
not to understand that!"

Nothing had passed, across their distance, but the mute apprehension of each on the part of
each; the whole expanse, at the church hour, was void of other life (he had scarce met a creature
on his way from end to end), and the sun-seasoned gusts kept brushing the air and all the larger
prospect clean. It was through this beautiful lucidity that he watched her watch him, as it
were--watch him for what he would do. Neither moved at this high tension; Kate Cookham, her
face fixed on him, only waited with a stiff appearance of leaving him, not for dignity but--to
an effect of even deeper perversity--for kindness, free to choose. It yet somehow affected
him at present, this attitude, as a gage of her knowing too--knowing, that is, that he wasn't
really free, that this was the thinnest of vain parades, the poorest of hollow heroics, that
his need, his solitude, his suffered wrong, his exhausted rancour, his foredoomed submission
to any shown interest, all hung together too heavy on him to let the weak wings of his pride
do more than vaguely tremble. They couldn't, they didn't carry him a single beat further away;
according to which he stood rooted, neither retreating nor advancing, but presently correcting
his own share of the bleak exchange by looking off at the sea. Deeply conscious of the awkwardness
this posture gave him, he yet clung to it as the last shred of his honour, to the clear argument
that it was one thing for him to have felt beneath all others, the previous days, that she
was to be counted on, but quite a different for her to have felt that he was. His checked approach,
arriving thus at no term, could in these odd conditions have established that he wasn't only
if Kate Cookham had, as either of them might have said, taken it so--if she had given up the
game at last by rising, by walking away and adding to the distance between them, and he had
then definitely let her vanish into space. It became a fact that when she did finally rise--though
after how long our record scarce takes on itself to say--it was not to confirm their separation
but to put an end to it; and this by slowly approaching him till she had come within earshot
He had wondered, once aware of it in spite of his averted face, what she would say and on what
note, as it were, she would break their week's silence; so that he had to recognise anew, her
voice reaching him, that remarkable quality in her which again and again came up for him as
her art.

"There are twelve hundred and sixty pounds, to be definite, but I have it all down for you--and
you've only to draw."

They lost themselves, these words, rare and exquisite, in the wide bright genial medium and
the Sunday stillness, but even while that occurred and he was gaping for it she was herself
there, in her battered ladylike truth, to answer for them, to represent them, and, if a further
grace than their simple syllabled beauty were conceivable, almost embarrassingly to cause them
to materialise. Yes, she let her smart and tight little reticule hang as if it bulged, beneath
its clasp, with the whole portentous sum, and he felt himself glare again at this vividest
of her attested claims. She might have been ready, on the spot, to open the store to the plunge
of his hand, or, with the situation otherwise conceived, to impose on his pauperised state
an acceptance of alms on a scale unprecedented in the annals of street charity. Nothing so
much counted for him, however, neither grave numeral nor elegant fraction, as the short, rich,
rounded word that the breeze had picked up as it dropped and seemed now to blow about between
them. "To draw--to draw?" Yes, he gaped it as if it had no sense; the fact being that even
while he did so he was reading into her use of the term more romance than any word in the language
had ever had for him. He, Herbert Dodd, was to live to "draw," like people, scarce hampered
by the conditions of earth, whom he had remotely and circuitously heard about, and in fact
when he walked back with her to where she had been sitting it was very much, for his strained
nerves, as if the very bench of desolation itself were to be the scene of that exploit and
he mightn't really live till he reached it. What a country! There are men with about
white hats and mats, color jackets with the collars up to the neck, boots high as those of
the cavalry, women with skirts and sleeves flute, so narrow mark them all that remains inside. And
on and on talking about the costumes and customs the time of the Empire, imagining everything
and still existed today's France was like to beginning of the century.

While detailing his memories, the teacher and his wife heard him attentively, and some boys, abusing
the unexpected holiday, away from the barracks were attracted to the sheep, fleeing from them
as the devil. The pulling of the tail, cogíanlas legs, forcing them to walk with the front legs
were rolled by the wayside, or trying to ride them registering a jump on their dirty wool.
And the poor animals in vain protesting with tender bleating, because he did not hear the pastor,
occupied in recounting with delight the agony of French finally killed him.

- And how many fell? - Ask the teacher at the end of the story.

- Question one hundred and twenty or one hundred thirty. Can not remember.

The marriage was smiling. Since the last conversation had increased
twenty French.

As the years passed their exploits were getting larger and the number of victims.

The moans of the herd finally called the teacher's attention.

- Gentlemen - shouted to the brave disciples while cane required - all here. Can you imagine that there
is more to spend the day having fun?

... The center works.

And to prove it by example, moving the rod it was a pleasure introducing
to blows the fold of wisdom to all the flock of playful rascals.

-
With your permission, Tomba: more than two hours we are talking about.

I have to continue the lesson.

And while the pastor, dismissed politely guided his sheep to the mill, to repeat there their stories,
started school again in the humming of the multiplication table, it was for the disciples of
Don Joaquin the great show of wisdom.

At sundown the boys let loose his last song, thanking the Lord "because
had assisted with their lights "and picked up the pouch each meal,
because as distances in the garden were not insignificant, the boys
went in the morning from their barracks with provisions for a day
at school.

This meant that some enemies of Don Joaquin teacher was fond of chastising his disciples diminished
rations for thus overcome the shortcomings of the kitchen of Dona Pepa.

On Friday, after leaving school, they all invariably heard the same speech:

- Gentlemen, tomorrow is Saturday, you remember it to their wives mothers and let them know
that tomorrow will not bring the two rooms will not enter the school. To you I say especially
'Lord of ... such ', and to you,' Lord of ... which "- and thus let
out a dozen names -.

Three weeks since he promised to bring you the stipend, and so the instruction is not possible or
science can procreate, nor fought with native barbarism relief from these fields. I I put everything,
my wisdom, my books - and watched the three cards he was collecting
his woman carefully to keep them in the old comfortable - and you
do not bring anything.

I said: that morning come with empty hands will not go in that door.

Notice the ladies mothers.

Boys were in pairs, holding hands - as in the schools of Valencia; What is believed some? - And left
the cabin, before kissing the right hand don squamous Joachim and repeating all of run to pass
by him:

- You have a good time! Until tomorrow, God willing! 

Acompañábales
the teacher to the square of the mill, which was a star of roads and
paths and there he undid the training in small groups, moving away
to different parts of the valley.

- Mind you, sirs, that I will keep
watch! - Joaquin shouted a last warning -. Care to steal fruit, to
skip stones or ditches. I have a bird that connects me everything;
and if I am wrong, cane walk off as a demon. It was so long, at any rate, that
Kate herself got up--and quite indeed, presently, as if her own forms were now at an end. He
had returned her nothing--so what was she waiting for? She had been on the two other occasions
momentarily at a loss, but never so much so, no doubt, as was thus testified to by her leaving
the bench and moving over once more to the rail of the terrace. She could carry it off, in
a manner, with her resources, that she was waiting with so little to wait for; she could face
him again, after looking off at the sea, as if this slightly stiff delay, not wholly exempt
from awkwardness, had been but a fine scruple of her courtesy. She had gathered herself in;
after giving him time to appeal she could take it that he had decided and that nothing was
left for her to do. "Well then," she clearly launched at him across the broad walk--"well then,
good-bye."

She had come nearer with it, as if he might rise for some show of express separation; but he
only leaned back motionless, his eyes on her now--he kept her a moment before him. "Do you
mean that we don't--that we don't--?" But he broke down.

"Do I 'mean'--?" She remained as for questions he might ask, but it was wellnigh as if there
played through her dotty veil an irrepressible irony for that particular one. "I've meant,
for long years, I think, all I'm capable of meaning. I've meant so much that I can't mean more.
So there it is."

"But if you go," he appealed--and with a sense as of final flatness, however he arranged it,
for his own attitude--"but if you go sha'n't I see you again?"

She waited a little, and it was strangely for him now as if--though at last so much more gorged
with her tribute than she had ever been with his--something still depended on her. "Do you
like to see me?" she very simply asked.

At this he did get up; that was easier than to say--at least with responsive simplicity; and
again for a little he looked hard and in silence at his letter; which at last, however, raising
his eyes to her own for the act, while he masked their conscious ruefulness, to his utmost,
in some air of assurance, he slipped into the inner pocket of his coat, letting it settle there
securely. "You're too wonderful." But he frowned at her with it as never in his life. "Where
does it all come from?"

"The wonder of poor me?" Kate Cookham said. "It comes from you."

He shook his head slowly--feeling, with his letter there against his heart, such a new agility,
almost such a new range of interest. "I mean so much money--so extraordinarily much."

Well, she held him a while blank. "Does it seem to you extraordinarily much--twelve-hundred-and-sixty?
Because, you know," she added, "it's all."

"It's enough!" he returned with a slight thoughtful droop of his head to the right and his
eyes attached to the far horizon as through a shade of shyness for what he was saying. He felt
all her own lingering nearness somehow on his cheek.

"It's enough? Thank you then!" she rather oddly went on.

He shifted a little his posture. "It was more than a hundred a year--for you to get together."

"Yes," she assented, "that was what year by year I tried for."

"But that you could live all the while and save that--!" Yes, he was at liberty, as he hadn't
been, quite pleasantly to marvel. All his wonderments in life had been hitherto unanswered--and
didn't the change mean that here again was the social relation?

"Ah, I didn't live as you saw me the other day."

"Yes," he answered--and didn't he the next instant feel he must fairly have smiled with it?--"the
other day you were going it!"

"For once in my life," said Kate Cookham. "I've left the hotel," she after a moment added.

"Ah, you're in--a--lodgings?" he found himself inquiring as for positive sociability.

She had apparently a slight shade of hesitation, but in an instant it was all right; as what
he showed he wanted to know she seemed mostly to give him. "Yes--but far of course from here.
Up on the hill." To which, after another instant, "At The Mount, Castle Terrace," she subjoined.

"Oh, I know The Mount. And Castle Terrace is awfully sunny and nice."

"Awfully sunny and nice," Kate Cookham took from him.

"So that if it isn't," he pursued, "like the Royal, why you're at least comfortable." 

The mulatto lover.

Colin.

HENRY DE REGNIER

The fear of love.

Mirmault Romana.

The amphisbaenids.

The living past.

JH ROSNY (MORE)

The untamed.

Marta Baraquin.

The overriding goodness.

Vamireb.

The death of the earth.

       

The mysterious force.

MARCELA Tinayre

The house of sin.

The sweetness of life.

The shadow of love.

Before love.

The love life of Francisco Barbazanges.

Binet Valmer

Metics (foreigners).

ALFREDO VANSI

The parody of love.

* * * * *

For sale at all bookstores
and libraries of the stations to 4 pts. Paperback and 5 glossy fabric.

Ordering:
EDITORIAL SECTION .-- Prometheus 130.--VALENCIA

HOME BOOKS

= ESSENTIAL
IN EVERY HOME =

LETTERS TO WRITE GOOD

Quickly exhausted the first
edition, just published the second, which contains numerous forms
for all correspondence, cards, telegrams and printed, a new form of
correspondence in social life. Special forms in French and English.
Collins Treaty Spelling. Idem of synonyms to avoid repetition of words.
Very complete collection of abbreviations. Graphology tried to interpret
the letter the character of the writer. Form all kinds of documents.
Guide to write telegrams and passwords. Treaty special postal, telegraph
and telephone. Current legislation and correspondence. A modern, comprehensive
treaty to write letters to help all kinds of correspondence without
difficulty and safety of doing well .-- 2 pesetas.

COOKING FOR ALL

More
than fifteen hundred formulas for all kinds of dishes, soups, rice
(specialties Valencian cuisine), purees, sauces, eggs, meat, poultry,
fish, legumes, fruits, pastries, confectionery, liquor and ice cream.
Layout and tableware, wines, etc. Nothing more practical or cheaper.
A volume of 336 pages .-- 2 pesetas.

"And I mayn't hear it?"

"No--because I mayn't hear yours."

"Oh, mine--!" he said with the strangest, saddest, yet after all most resigned sense of surrender
of it; which he tried to make sound as if he couldn't have told it, for its splendor of sacrifice
and of misery, even if he would.

It seemed to move in her a little, exactly, that sense of the invidious. "Ah, mine too, I assure
you----!"

He rallied at once to the interest. "Oh, we can talk then?"

"Never," she all oddly replied. "Never," said Kate Cookham.

They remained so, face to face; the effect of which for him was that he had after a little
understood why. That was fundamental. "Well, I see."

Thus confronted they stayed; and then, as he saw with a contentment that came up from deeper
still, it was indeed she who, with her worn fine face, would conclude. "But I can take care
of you."

"You have!" he said as with nothing left of him but a beautiful appreciative candour.

"Oh, but you'll want it now in a way--!" she responsibly answered.

He waited a moment, dropping again on the seat. 

Since the men believed in heaven and hell, to escape hell and gain heaven was the big question,
and unhappiness was the way it was said that the last shall be the first and the first would be
the last in the kingdom of God. He leaned forward, dropping his elbows to his
knees and pressing his head on his hands. So he stayed, saying nothing; only, with the sense
of her own sustained, renewed and wonderful action, knowing that an arm had passed round him
and that he was held. She was beside him on the bench of desolation.

