"Ay, truly was it," said Wildrake, who now sat triumphant and glorious in his easy-chair; "and
here is to all the brave hearts, sir, that fought and fell in that same storm of Brentford.
We drove all before us like chaff, till the shops, where they sold strong waters, and other
temptations, brought us up. Gad, sir, we, the babe-eaters, had too many acquaintances in Brentford,
and our stout Prince Rupert was ever better at making way than drawing off. Gad, sir, for my
own poor share, I did but go into the house of a poor widow lady, who maintained a charge of
daughters, and whom I had known of old, to get my horse fed, a morsel of meat, and so forth,
when these cockney-pikes of the artillery ground, as you very well call them, rallied, and
came in with their armed heads, as boldly as so many Cotswold rams. I sprang down stairs, got
to my horse,--but, egad, I fancy all my troop had widows and orphan maidens to comfort as well
as I, for only five of us got together. We cut our way through successfully; and Gad, gentlemen,
I carried my little Breakfast on the pommel before me; and there was such a hollowing and screeching,
as if the whole town thought I was to kill, roast, and eat the poor child, so soon as I got
to quarters. But devil a cockney charged up to my bonny bay, poor lass, to rescue little cake-bread;
they only cried haro, and out upon me."

"Alas, alas!" said the knight, "we made ourselves seem worse than we were; and we were too
bad to deserve God's blessing even in a good cause. But it is needless to look back; we did
not deserve victories when God gave them, for we never improved them like good soldiers, or
like Christian men; and so we gave these canting scoundrels the advantage of us, for they assumed,
out of mere hypocrisy, the discipline and orderly behaviour which we, who drew our swords in
a better cause, ought to have practised out of true principle. But here is my hand, Captain.
I have often wished to see the honest fellow who charged up so smartly in our behalf, and I
reverence you for the care you took of the poor child. I am glad this dilapidated place has
still some hospitality to offer you, although we cannot treat you to roasted babes or stewed
sucklings--eh, Captain?"

"Truth, Sir Henry, the scandal was sore against us on that score. I remember Lacy, who was
an old play-actor, and a lieutenant in ours, made drollery on it in a play which was sometimes
acted at Oxford, when our hearts were something up, called, I think, the Old Troop."

So saying, and feeling more familiar as his merits were known, he hitched his chair up against
that of the Scottish lad, who was seated next him, and who, in shifting his place, was awkward
enough to disturb, in his turn, Alice Lee, who sate opposite, and, a little offended, or at
least embarrassed, drew her chair away from the table.

"I crave pardon," said the honourable Master Kerneguy; "but, sir," to Master Wildrake, "ye
hae e'en garr'd me hurt the young lady's shank."

"I crave your pardon, sir, and much more that of the fair lady, as is reasonable; though, rat
me, sir, if it was I set your chair a-trundling in that way. Zooks, sir, I have brought with
me no plague, nor pestilence, nor other infectious disorder, that ye should have started away
as if I had been a leper, and discomposed the lady, which I would have prevented with my life,
sir. Sir, if ye be northern born, as your tongue bespeaks, egad, it was I ran the risk in drawing
near you; so there was small reason for you to bolt."

"Master Wildrake," said Albert, interfering, "this young gentleman is a stranger as well as
you, under protection of Sir Henry's hospitality, and it cannot be agreeable for my father
to see disputes arise among his guests. You may mistake the young gentleman's quality from
his present appearance--this is the Honourable Master Louis Kerneguy, sir, son of my Lord Killstewers
of Kincardineshire, one who has fought for the King, young as he is."

"No dispute shall rise through me, sir--none through me," said Wildrake; "your exposition sufficeth,
sir.--Master Louis Girnigo, son of my Lord Kilsteer, in Gringardenshire, I am your humble slave,
sir, and drink your health, in token that I honour you, and all true Scots who draw their Andrew
Ferraras on the right side, sir."

"I'se beholden to you, and thank you, sir," said the young man, with some haughtiness of manner,
which hardly corresponded with his rusticity; "and I wuss your health in a ceevil way."

Most judicious persons would have here dropped the conversation; but it was one of Wildrake's
marked peculiarities, that he could never let matters stand when they were well. He continued
to plague the shy, proud, and awkward lad with his observations. "You speak your national dialect
pretty strongly, Master Girnigo," said he, "but I think not quite the language of the gallants
that I have known among the Scottish cavaliers--I knew, for example, some of the Gordons, and
others of good repute, who always put an f for wh, as faat for what, fan for when, and the like."

Albert Lee here interposed, and said that the provinces of Scotland, like those of England,
had their different modes of pronunciation.

"You are very right, sir," said Wildrake. "I reckon myself, now, a pretty good speaker of their
cursed jargon--no offence, young gentleman; and yet, when I took a turn with some of Montrose's
folk, in the South Highlands, as they call their beastly wildernesses, (no offence again,)
I chanced to be by myself, and to lose my way, when I said to a shepherd-fellow, making my
mouth as wide, and my voice as broad as I could, whore am I ganging till?--confound me if the
fellow could answer me, unless, indeed, he was sulky, as the bumpkins will be now and then
to the gentlemen of the sword."

This was familiarly spoken, and though partly addressed to Albert, was still more directed
to his immediate neighbour, the young Scotsman, who seemed, from bashfulness, or some other
reason, rather shy of his intimacy. To one or two personal touches from Wildrake's elbow, administered
during his last speech, by way of a practical appeal to him in particular, he only answered,
"Misunderstandings were to be expected when men converse in national deealects."

Wildrake, now considerably drunker than he ought to have been in civil company, caught up the
phrase and repeated it:--"Misunderstanding, sir--Misunderstanding, sir?--I do not know how
I am to construe that, sir; but to judge from the information of these scratches on your honourable
visnomy, I should augur that you had been of late at misunderstanding with the cat, sir."

"You are mistaken, then, friend, for it was with the dowg," answered the Scotsman, dryly, and
cast a look towards Albert.

"We had some trouble with the watch-dogs in entering so late in the evening," said Albert,
in explanation, "and this youth had a fall among some rubbish, by which he came by these scratches."

"And now, dear Sir Henry," said Dr. Rochecliffe, "allow us to remind you of your gout, and
our long journey. I do it the rather that my good friend your son has been, during the whole
time of supper, putting questions to me aside, which had much better be reserved till to-morrow--May
we therefore ask permission to retire to our night's rest?"

"These private committees in a merry meeting," said Wildrake, "are a solecism in breeding.
They always put me in mind of the cursed committees at Westminster.--But shall we roost before
we rouse the night-owl with a catch?"

"Aha, canst thou quote Shakspeare?" said Sir Henry, pleased at discovering a new good quality
in his acquaintance, whose military services were otherwise but just able to counterbalance
the intrusive freedom of his conversation. "In the name of merry Will," he continued,--"whom
I never saw, though I have seen many of his comrades, as Alleyn, Hemmings, and so on,--we will
have a single catch, and one rouse about, and then to bed."

After the usual discussion about the choice of the song, and the parts which each was to bear,
they united their voices in trolling a loyal glee, which was popular among the party at the
time, and in fact believed to be composed by no less a person than Dr. Rochecliffe himself.

GLEE FOR KING CHARLES.

Bring the bowl which you boast,
  Fill it up to the brim;
'Tis to him we love most,
  And to all who love him.
Brave gallants, stand up.
  And avauant, ye base carles!
Were there death in the cup,
  Here's a health to King Charles!

Though he wanders through dangers,
  Unaided, unknown,
Dependent 'on strangers,
  Estranged from his own;
Though 'tis under our breath,
  Amidst forfeits and perils,
Here's to honour and faith,
  And a health to King Charles!

Let such honours abound
  As the time can afford.
The knee on the ground,
  And the hand on the sword;
But the time shall come round.
  When, 'mid Lords, Dukes, and Earls,
The loud trumpets shall sound
  Here's a health to King Charles!

After this display of loyalty, and a final libation, the party took leave of each other for
the night. Sir Henry offered his old acquaintance Wildrake a bed for the evening, who weighed
the matter somewhat in this fashion: "Why, to speak truth, my patron will expect me at the
borough--but then he is used to my staying out of doors a-nights. Then there's the Devil, that
they say haunts Woodstock; but with the blessing of this reverend Doctor, I defy him and all
his works--I saw him not when I slept here twice before, and I am sure if he was absent then,
he has not come back with Sir Henry Lee and his family. So I accept your courtesy, Sir Henry,
and I thank you, as a cavalier of Lunsford should thank one of the fighting clerks of Oxon.
God bless the King! I care not who hears it, and confusion to Noll and his red nose!" Off he
went accordingly with a bottle-swagger, guided by Joceline, to whom Albert, in the meantime,
had whispered, to be sure to quarter him far enough from the rest of the family.

Young Lee then saluted his sister, and, with the formality of those times, asked and received
his father's blessing with an affectionate embrace. His page seemed desirous to imitate one
part of his example, but was repelled by Alice, who only replied to his offered salute with
a curtsy. He next bowed his head in an awkward fashion to her father, who wished him a good
night. "I am glad to see, young man," he said, "that you have at least learned the reverence
due to age. It should always be paid, sir; because in doing so you render that honour to others
which you will expect yourself to receive when you approach the close of your life. More will
I speak with you at leisure, on your duties as a page, which office in former days used to
be the very school of chivalry; whereas of late, by the disorderly times, it has become little
better than a school of wild and disordered license; which made rare Ben Jonson exclaim"--

"Nay, father," said Albert, interposing, "you must consider this day's fatigue, and the poor
lad is almost asleep on his legs--to-morrow he will listen with more profit to your kind admonitions.--And
you, Louis, remember at least one part of your duty--take the candles and light us--here Joceline
comes to show us the way. Once more, good night, good Dr. Rochecliffe--good night, all."

       *       *        *       *        *

CHAPTER THE TWENTY-FIRST.

  Groom. Hail, noble prince!
  King Richard. Thanks, noble peer;
  The cheapest of us is a groat too dear.
    RICHARD II

Albert and his page were ushered by Joceline to what was called the Spanish Chamber, a huge
old scrambling bedroom, rather in a dilapidated condition, but furnished with a large standing-bed
for the master, and a truckle-bed for the domestic, as was common at a much later period in
old English houses, where the gentleman often required the assistance of a groom of the chambers
to help him to bed, if the hospitality had been exuberant. The walls were covered with hangings
of cordovan leather, stamped with gold, and representing fights between the Spaniards and Moriscoes,
bull-feasts, and other sports peculiar to the Peninsula, from which it took its name of the
Spanish Chamber. These hangings were in some places entirely torn down, in others defaced and
hanging in tatters. But Albert stopped not to make observations, anxious, it seemed, to get
Joceline out of the room; which he achieved by hastily answering his offers of fresh fuel,
and more liquor, in the negative, and returning, with equal conciseness, the under-keeper's
good wishes for the evening. He at length retired, somewhat unwillingly, and as if he thought
that his young master might have bestowed a few more words upon a faithful old retainer after
so long absence.

Joliffe was no sooner gone, than, before a single word was spoken between Albert Lee and his
page, the former hastened to the door, examined lock, latch, and bolt, and made them fast,
with the most scrupulous attention. He superadded to these precautions that of a long screw-bolt,
which he brought out of his pocket, and which he screwed on to the staple in such a manner
as to render it impossible to withdraw it, or open the door, unless by breaking it down. The
page held a light to him during the operation, which his master went through with much exactness
and dexterity. But when Albert arose from his knee, on which he had rested during the accomplishment
of this task, the manner of the companions was on the sudden entirely changed towards each
other. The honourable Master Kerneguy, from a cubbish lout of a raw Scotsman, seemed to have
acquired at once all the grace and ease of motion and manner, which could be given by an acquaintance
of the earliest and most familiar kind with the best company of the time.

He gave the light he held to Albert, with the easy indifference of a superior, who rather graces
than troubles his dependent by giving him some slight service to perform. Albert, with the
greatest appearance of deference, assumed in his turn the character of torch-bearer, and lighted
his page across the chamber, without turning his back upon him as he did so. He then set the
light on the table by the bedside, and approaching the young man with deep reverence, received
from him the soiled green jacket, with the same profound respect as if he had been a first
lord of the bedchamber, or other officer of the household of the highest distinction, disrobing
his Sovereign of the Mantle of the Garter. The person to whom this ceremony was addressed endured
it for a minute or two with profound gravity, and then bursting out a-laughing, exclaimed to
Albert, "What a devil means all this formality?--thou complimentest with these miserable rags
as if they were silks and sables, and with poor Louis Kerneguy as if he were the King of Great
Britain!"

"And if your Majesty's commands, and the circumstances of the time, have made me for a moment
seem to forget that you are my sovereign, surely I may be permitted to render my homage as
such while you are in your own royal palace of Woodstock?"

"Truly," replied the disguised Monarch, "the sovereign and the palace are not ill matched;--these
tattered hangings and my ragged jerkin suit each other admirably.--This Woodstock!--this the
bower where the royal Norman revelled with the fair Rosamond Clifford!--Why, it is a place
of assignation for owls." Then, suddenly recollecting himself, with his natural courtesy, he
added, as if fearing he might have hurt Albert's feelings--"But the more obscure and retired,
it is the fitter for our purpose, Lee; and if it does seem to be a roost for owls, as there
is no denying, why we know it has nevertheless brought up eagles."

He threw himself as he spoke upon a chair, and indolently, but gracefully, received the kind
offices, of Albert, who undid the coarse buttonings of the leathern gamashes which defended
his legs, and spoke to him the whilst:--"What a fine specimen of the olden time is your father,
Sir Henry! It is strange I should not have seen him before;--but I heard my father often speak
of him as being among the flower of our real old English gentry. By the mode in which he began
to school me, I can guess you had a tight taskmaster of him, Albert--I warrant you never wore
hat in his presence, eh?"

"I never cocked it at least in his presence, please your Majesty, as I have seen some youngsters
do," answered Albert; "indeed if I had, it must have been a stout beaver to have saved me from
a broken head."

"Oh, I doubt it not," replied the king; "a fine old gentleman--but with that, methinks, in
his countenance, that assures you he would not hate the child in sparing the rod.--Hark ye,
Albert--Suppose the same glorious Restoration come round--which, if drinking to its arrival
can hasten it, should not be far distant,--for in that particular our adherents never neglect
their duty, suppose it come, therefore, and that thy father, as must be of course, becomes
an Earl and one of the Privy Council, oddsfish, man, I shall be as much afraid of him as ever
was my grandfather Henri Quatre of old Sully.--Imagine there were such a trinket now about
the Court as the Fair Rosamond, or La Belle Gabrielle, what a work there would be of pages,
and grooms of the chamber, to get the pretty rogue clandestinely shuffled out by the backstairs,
like a prohibited commodity, when the step of the Earl of Woodstock was heard in the antechamber!"

"I am glad to see your Majesty so--merry after your fatiguing journey."

"The fatigue was nothing, man," said Charles; "a kind welcome and a good meal made amends for
all that. But they must have suspected thee of bringing a wolf from the braes of Badenoch along
with you, instead of a two-legged being, with no more than the usual allowance of mortal stowage
for provisions. I was really ashamed of my appetite; but thou knowest I had eat nothing for
twenty-four hours, save the raw egg you stole for me from the old woman's hen-roost--I tell
thee, I blushed to show myself so ravenous before that high-bred and respectable old gentleman
your father, and the very pretty girl your sister--or cousin, is she?"

"She is my sister," said Albert Lee, dryly, and added, in the same breath, "Your Majesty's
appetite suited well enough with the character of a raw northern lad.--Would your Majesty now
please to retire to rest?"

"Not for a minute or two," said the King, retaining his seat. "Why, man, I have scarce had
my tongue unchained to-day; and to talk with that northern twang, and besides, the fatigue
of being obliged to speak every word in character,--Gad, it's like walking as the galley-slaves
do on the Continent, with a twenty-four pound shot chained to their legs--they may drag it
along, but they cannot move with comfort. And, by the way, thou art slack in paying me my well-deserved
tribute of compliment on my counterfeiting.--Did I not play Louis Kerneguy as round as a ring?"

"If your Majesty asks my serious opinion, perhaps I may be forgiven if I say your dialect was
somewhat too coarse for a Scottish youth of high birth, and your behaviour perhaps a little
too churlish. I thought too--though I pretend not to be skilful--that some of your Scottish
sounded as if it were not genuine."

"Not genuine?--there is no pleasing thee, Albert.--Why, who should speak genuine Scottish but
myself?--Was I not their King for a matter of ten months? and if I did not get knowledge of
their language, I wonder what else I got by it. Did not east country, and south country, and
west country, and Highlands, caw, croak, and shriek about me, as the deep guttural, the broad
drawl, and the high sharp yelp predominated by turns?--Oddsfish, man, have I not been speeched
at by their orators, addressed by their senators, rebuked by their kirkmen? Have I not sate
on the cutty-stool, mon, [again assuming the northern dialect,] and thought it grace of worthy
Mrs John Gillespie, that I was permitted to do penance in my own privy chamber, instead of
the face of the congregation? and wilt thou tell me, after all, that I cannot speak Scotch
enough to baffle an Oxon Knight and his family?"

"May it please your Majesty,--I begun by saying I was no judge of the Scottish language."

"Pshaw--it is mere envy; just so you said at Norton's, that I was too courteous and civil for
a young page--now you think me too rude."

"And there is a medium, if one could find it," said Albert, defending his opinion in the same
tone in which the King attacked him; "so this morning, when you were in the woman's dress,
you raised your petticoats rather unbecomingly high, as you waded through the first little
stream; and when I told you of it, to mend the matter, you draggled through the next without
raising them at all."

"O, the devil take the woman's dress!" said Charles; "I hope I shall never be driven to that
disguise again. Why, my ugly face was enough to put gowns, caps, and kirtles, out of fashion
for ever--the very dogs fled from me--Had I passed any hamlet that had but five huts in it,
I could not have escaped the cucking-stool.--I was a libel on womankind. These leathern conveniences
are none of the gayest, but they are propria quae maribus; and right glad am I to be repossessed
of them. I can tell you too, my friend, I shall resume all my masculine privileges with my
proper habiliments; and as you say I have been too coarse to-night, I will behave myself like
a courtier to Mistress Alice to-morrow. I made a sort of acquaintance with her already, when
I seemed to be of the same sex with herself, and found out there are other Colonels in the
wind besides you, Colonel Albert Lee."

"May it please your Majesty," said Albert--and then stopped short, from the difficulty of finding
words to express the unpleasant nature of his feelings. They could not escape Charles; but
he proceeded without scruple. "I pique myself on seeing as far into the hearts of young ladies
as most folk, though God knows they are sometimes too deep for the wisest of us. But I mentioned
to your sister in my character of fortune-teller,--thinking, poor simple man, that a country
girl must have no one but her brother to dream about,--that she was anxious about a certain
Colonel. I had hit the theme, but not the person; for I alluded to you, Albert; and I presume
the blush was too deep ever to be given to a brother. So up she got, and away she flew from
me like a lap-wing. I can excuse her--for, looking at myself in the well, I think if I had
met such a creature as I seemed, I should have called fire and fagot against it.--Now, what
think you, Albert--who can this Colonel be, that more than rivals you in your sister's affection?"

Albert, who well knew that the King's mode of thinking, where the fair sex was concerned, was
far more gay than delicate, endeavoured to put a stop to the present topic by a grave answer.

"His sister," he said, "had been in some measure educated with the son of her maternal uncle,
Markham Everard; but as his father and he himself had adopted the cause of the roundheads,
the families had in consequence been at variance; and any projects which might have been formerly
entertained, were of course long since dismissed on all sides."

"You are wrong, Albert, you are wrong," said the King, pitilessly pursuing his jest. "You Colonels,
whether you wear blue or orange sashes, are too pretty fellows to be dismissed so easily, when
once you have acquired an interest. But Mistress Alice, so pretty, and who wishes the restoration
of the King with such a look and accent, as if she were an angel whose prayers must needs bring
it down, must not be allowed to retain any thoughts of a canting roundhead--What say you--will
you give me leave to take her to task about it?--After all, I am the party most concerned in
maintaining true allegiance among my subjects; and if I gain the pretty maiden's good will,
that of the sweetheart's will soon follow. This was jolly King Edward's way--Edward the Fourth,
you know. The king-making Earl of Warwick--the Cromwell of his day--dethroned him more than
once; but he had the hearts of the merry dames of London, and the purses and veins of the cockneys
bled freely, till they brought him home again. How say you?--shall I shake off my northern
slough, and speak with Alice in my own character, showing what education and manners have done
for me, to make the best amends they can for an ugly face?"

"May it please your Majesty," said Albert, in an altered and embarrassed tone, "I did not expect"--

Here he stopped, not able to find words adequate at the same time to express his sentiments,
and respectful enough to the King, while in his father's house, and under his own protection.

"And what is it that Master Lee does not expect?" said Charles, with marked gravity on his part.

Again Albert attempted a reply, but advanced no farther than, "I would hope, if it please your
Majesty"--when he again stopped short, his deep and hereditary respect for his sovereign, and
his sense of the hospitality due to his misfortunes, preventing his giving utterance to his
irritated feelings.

"And what does Colonel Albert Lee hope?" said Charles, in the same dry and cold manner in which
he had before spoken.--"No answer?--Now, I hope that Colonel Lee does not see in a silly jest
anything offensive to the honour of his family, since methinks that were an indifferent compliment
to his sister, his father, and himself, not to mention Charles Stewart, whom he calls his King;
and I expect, that I shall not be so hardly construed, as to be supposed capable of forgetting
that Mistress Alice Lee is the daughter of my faithful subject and host, and the sister of
my guide and preserver.--Come, come, Albert," he added, changing at once to his naturally frank
and unceremonious manner, "you forget how long I have been abroad where men, women, and children,
talk gallantry morning, noon, and night, with no more serious thought than just to pass away
the time; and I forget, too, that you are of the old-fashioned English school, a son after
Sir Henry's own heart, and don't understand raillery upon such subjects.--But I ask your pardon,
Albert, sincerely, if I have really hurt you."

So saying, he extended his hand to Colonel Lee, who, feeling he had been rather too hasty in
construing the King's jest in an unpleasant sense, kissed it with reverence, and attempted
an apology.

"Not a word--not a word," said the good-natured Prince, raising his penitent adherent as he
attempted to kneel; "we understand each other. You are somewhat afraid of the gay reputation
which I acquired in Scotland; but I assure you, I will be as stupid as you or your cousin Colonel
could desire, in presence of Mistress Alice Lee, and only bestow my gallantry, should I have
any to throw away, upon the pretty little waiting-maid who attended at supper--unless you should
have monopolized her ear for your own benefit, Colonel Albert?"

"It is monopolized, sure enough, though not by me, if it please your Majesty, but by Joceline
Joliffe, the under-keeper, whom we must not disoblige, as we have trusted him so far already,
and may have occasion to repose even entire confidence in him. I half think he suspects who
Louis Kerneguy may in reality be."

"You are an engrossing set, you wooers of Woodstock," said the King, laughing. "Now, if I had
a fancy, as a Frenchman would not fail to have in such a case, to make pretty speeches to the
deaf old woman I saw in the kitchen, as a pisaller, I dare say I should be told that her ear
was engrossed for Dr. Rochecliffe's sole use?"

"I marvel at your Majesty's good spirits," said Albert, "that after a day of danger, fatigue,
and accidents, you should feel the power of amusing yourself thus."

"That is to say, the groom of the chambers wishes his Majesty would go to sleep?--Well, one
word or two on more serious business, and I have done.--I have been completely directed by
you and Rochecliffe--I have changed my disguise from female to male upon the instant, and altered
my destination from Hampshire to take shelter here--Do you still hold it the wiser course?"

"I have great confidence in Dr. Rochecliffe," replied Albert, "whose acquaintance with the
scattered royalists enables him to gain the most accurate intelligence. His pride in the extent
of his correspondence, and the complication of his plots and schemes for your Majesty's service,
is indeed the very food he lives upon; but his sagacity is equal to his vanity. I repose, besides,
the utmost faith in Joliffe. Of my father and sister I would say nothing; yet I would not,
without reason, extend the knowledge of your Majesty's person farther than it is indispensably
necessary."

"Is it handsome in me," said Charles, pausing, "to withhold my full confidence from Sir Henry Lee?"

"Your Majesty heard of his almost death-swoon of last night--what would agitate him most deeply
must not be hastily communicated."

"True; but are we safe from a visit of the red-coats--they have them in Woodstock as well as
in Oxford?" said Charles.

"Dr. Rochecliffe says, not unwisely," answered Lee, "that it is best sitting near the fire
when the chimney smokes; and that Woodstock, so lately in possession of the sequestrators,
and still in the vicinity of the soldiers, will be less suspected, and more carelessly searched,
than more distant corners, which might seem to promise more safety. Besides," he added, "Rochecliffe
is in possession of curious and important news concerning the state of matters at Woodstock,
highly favourable to your Majesty's being concealed in the palace for two or three days, till
shipping is provided. The Parliament, or usurping Council of State, had sent down sequestrators,
whom their own evil conscience, assisted, perhaps, by the tricks of some daring cavaliers,
had frightened out of the Lodge, without much desire to come back again. Then the more formidable
usurper, Cromwell, had granted a warrant of possession to Colonel Everard, who had only used
it for the purpose of repossessing his uncle in the Lodge, and who kept watch in person at
the little borough, to see that Sir Henry was not disturbed."

"What! Mistress Alice's Colonel?" said the King--"that sounds alarming;--for grant that he
keeps the other fellows at bay, think you not, Master Albert, he will have an hundred errands
a-day, to bring him here in person?"

"Dr. Rochecliffe says," answered Lee, "the treaty between Sir Henry and his nephew binds the
latter not to approach the Lodge, unless invited;--indeed, it was not without great difficulty,
and strongly arguing the good consequences it might produce to your Majesty's cause, that my
father could be prevailed on to occupy Woodstock at all; but be assured he will be in no hurry
to send an invitation to the Colonel."

"And be you assured that the Colonel will come without waiting for one," said Charles. "Folk
cannot judge rightly where sisters are concerned--they are too familiar with the magnet to
judge of its powers of attraction.--Everard will be here, as if drawn by cart-ropes-- fetters,
not to talk of promises, will not hold him--and then, methinks, we are in some danger."

"I hope not," said Albert. "In the first place, I know Markham is a slave to his word: besides,
were any chance to bring him here, I think I could pass your Majesty upon him without difficulty,
as Louis Kerneguy. Then, although my cousin and I have not been on good terms for these some
years, I believe him incapable of betraying your Majesty; and lastly, if I saw the least danger
of it, I would, were he ten times the son of my mother's sister, run my sword through his body,
ere he had time to execute his purpose."

"There is but another question," said Charles, "and I will release you, Albert:--You seem to
think yourself secure from search. It may be so; but, in any other country, this tale of goblins
which is flying about would bring down priests and ministers of justice to examine the reality
of the story, and mobs of idle people to satisfy their curiosity."

"Respecting the first, sir, we hope and understand that Colonel Everard's influence will prevent
any immediate enquiry, for the sake of preserving undisturbed the peace of his uncle's family;
and as for any one coming without some sort of authority, the whole neighbours have so much
love and fear of my father, and are, besides, so horribly alarmed about the goblins of Woodstock,
that fear will silence curiosity."

"On the whole, then," said Charles, "the chances of safety seem to be in favour of the plan
we have adopted, which is all I can hope for in a condition where absolute safety is out of
the question. The Bishop recommended Dr. Rochecliffe as one of the most ingenious, boldest,
and most loyal sons of the Church of England; you, Albert Lee, have marked your fidelity by
a hundred proofs. To you and your local knowledge I submit myself.--And now, prepare our arms--alive
I will not be taken;-- yet I will not believe that a son of the King of England, and heir of
her throne, could be destined to danger in his own palace, and under the guard of the loyal Lees."

Albert Lee laid pistols and swords in readiness by the King's bed and his own; and Charles,
after some slight apology, took his place in the larger and better bed, with a sigh of pleasure,
as from one who had not lately enjoyed such an indulgence. He bid good night to his faithful
attendant, who deposited himself on his truckle; and both monarch and subject were soon fast
asleep.

       *       *        *       *        *

CHAPTER THE TWENTY-SECOND.

  Give Sir Nicholas Threlkeld praise;
  Hear it, good man, old in days,
  Thou tree of succour and of rest

  To this young bird that was distress'd;
  Beneath thy branches he did stay;
  And he was free to sport and play,
  When falcons were abroad for prey.
    WORDSWORTH.

The fugitive Prince slept, in spite of danger, with the profound repose which youth and fatigue
inspire. But the young cavalier, his guide and guard, spent a more restless night, starting
from time to time, and listening; anxious, notwithstanding Dr. Rochecliffe's assurances, to
procure yet more particular knowledge concerning the state of things around them, than he had
been yet able to collect.

He rose early after daybreak; but although he moved with as little noise as was possible, the
slumbers of the hunted Prince were easily disturbed. He started up in his bed, and asked if
there was any alarm.

"None, please your Majesty," replied Lee; "only, thinking on the questions your Majesty was
asking last night, and the various chances there are of your Majesty's safety being endangered
from unforeseen accidents, I thought of going thus early, both to communicate with Dr. Rochecliffe,
and to keep such a look-out as befits the place, where are lodged for the time the Fortunes
of England. I fear I must request of your Majesty, for your own gracious security, that you
have the goodness to condescend to secure the door with your own hand after I go out."

"Oh, talk not to Majesty, for Heaven's sake, dear Albert!" answered the poor King, endeavouring
in vain to put on a part of his clothes, in order to traverse the room.--"When a King's doublet
and hose are so ragged that he can no more find his way into them than he could have travelled
through the forest of Deane without a guide, good faith, there should be an end of Majesty,
until it chances to be better accommodated. Besides, there is the chance of these big words
bolting out at unawares, when there are ears to hear them whom we might think dangerous."

"Your commands shall be obeyed," said Lee, who had now succeeded in opening the door; from
which he took his departure, leaving the King, who had hustled along the floor for that purpose,
with his dress wofully ill arranged, to make it fast again behind him, and begging him in no
case to open to any one, unless he or Rochecliffe were of the party who summoned him.

Albert then set out in quest of Dr. Rochecliffe's apartment, which was only known to himself
and the faithful Joliffe, and had at different times accommodated that steady churchman with
a place of concealment, when, from his bold and busy temper, which led him into the most extensive
and hazardous machinations on the King's behalf, he had been strictly sought after by the opposite
party. Of late, the inquest after him had died entirely away, as he had prudently withdrawn
himself from the scene of his intrigues. Since the loss of the battle of Worcester, he had
been afloat again, and more active than ever; and had, by friends and correspondents, and especially
the Bishop of ----, been the means of directing the King's flight towards Woodstock, although
it was not until the very day of his arrival that he could promise him a safe reception at
that ancient mansion.

Albert Lee, though he revered both the undaunted spirit and ready resources of the bustling
and intriguing churchman, felt he had not been enabled by him to answer some of Charles's questions
yesternight, in a way so distinct as one trusted with the King's safety ought to have done;
and it was now his object to make himself personally acquainted, if possible, with the various
bearings of so weighty a matter, as became a man on whom so much of the responsibility was
likely to descend.

Even his local knowledge was scarce adequate to find the Doctor's secret apartment, had he
not traced his way after a genial flavour of roasted game through divers blind passages, and
up and down certain very useless stairs, through cupboards and hatchways, and so forth, to
a species of sanctum sanctorum, where Joceline Joliffe was ministering to the good Doctor a
solemn breakfast of wild-fowl, with a cup of small beer stirred with a sprig of rosemary, which
Dr. Rochecliffe preferred to all strong potations. Beside him sat Bevis on his tail, slobbering
and looking amiable, moved by the rare smell of the breakfast, which had quite overcome his
native dignity of disposition.

The chamber in which the Doctor had established himself was a little octangular room, with
walls of great thickness, within which were fabricated various issues, leading in different
directions, and communicating with different parts of the building. Around him were packages
with arms, and near him one small barrel, as it seemed, of gunpowder; many papers in different
parcels, and several keys for correspondence in cipher; two or three scrolls covered with hieroglyphics
were also beside him, which Albert took for plans of nativity; and various models of machinery,
in which Dr. Rochecliffe was an adept. There were also tools of various kinds, masks, cloaks,
and a dark lantern, and a number of other indescribable trinkets belonging to the trade of
a daring plotter in dangerous times. Last, there was a casket with gold and silver coin of
different countries, which was left carelessly open, as if it were the least of Dr. Rochecliffe's
concern, although his habits in general announced narrow circumstances, if not actual poverty.
Close by the divine's plate lay a Bible and Prayer-book, with some proof sheets, as they are
technically called, seemingly fresh from the press. There was also within the reach of his
hand a dirk, or Scottish poniard, a powder-horn, and a musketoon, or blunderbuss, with a pair
of handsome pocket-pistols. In the midst of this miscellaneous collection, the Doctor sat eating
his breakfast with great appetite, as little dismayed by the various implements of danger around
him, as a workman is when accustomed to the perils of a gunpowder manufactory.

"So, young gentleman," he said, getting up and extending his hand, "are you come to breakfast
with me in good fellowship, or to spoil my meal this morning, as you did my supper last night,
by asking untimely questions?"

"I will pick a bone with you with all my heart," said Albert; "and if you please, Doctor, I
would ask some questions which seem not quite untimely."

So saying he sat down, and assisted the Doctor in giving a very satisfactory account of a brace
of wild-ducks and a leash of teal. Bevis, who maintained his place with great patience and
insinuation, had his share of a collop, which was also placed on the well-furnished board;
for, like most high-bred dogs, he declined eating waterfowl.

"Come hither then, Albert Lee," said the Doctor, laying down his knife and fork, and plucking
the towel from his throat, so soon as Joceline was withdrawn; "thou art still the same lad
thou wert when I was thy tutor--never satisfied with having got a grammar rule, but always
persecuting me with questions why the rule stood so, and not otherwise-- over-curious after
information which thou couldst not comprehend, as Bevis slobbered and whined for the duck-wing,
which he could not eat."

"I hope you will find me more reasonable, Doctor," answered Albert; "and at the same time,
that you will recollect I am not now sub ferula, but am placed in circumstances where I am
not at liberty to act upon the ipse dixit of any man, unless my own judgment be convinced.
I shall deserve richly to be hanged, drawn, and quartered, should any misfortune happen by
my misgovernment in this business."

"And it is therefore, Albert, that I would have thee trust the whole to me, without interfering.
Thou sayest, forsooth, thou art not sub ferula; but recollect that while you have been fighting
in the field, I have been plotting in the study--that I know all the combinations of the King's
friends, ay, and all the motions of his enemies, as well as a spider knows every mesh of his
web. Think of my experience, man. Not a cavalier in the land but has heard of Rochecliffe,
the Plotter. I have been a main limb in every thing that has been attempted since forty-two--penned
declarations, conducted correspondence, communicated with chiefs, recruited followers, commissioned
arms, levied money, appointed rendezvouses. I was in the Western Riding; and before that, in
the City Petition, and in Sir John Owen's stir in Wales; in short, almost in every plot for
the King, since Tomkins and Challoner's matter."

"But were not all these plots unsuccessful?" said Albert; "and were not Tomkins and Challoner
hanged, Doctor?"

"Yes, my young friend," answered the Doctor, gravely, "as many others have been with whom I
have acted; but only because they did not follow my advice implicitly. You never heard that
I was hanged myself?"

"The time may come, Doctor," said Albert; "The pitcher goes oft to the well.--The proverb,
as my father would say, is somewhat musty. But I, too, have some confidence in my own judgment;
and, much as I honour the Church, I cannot altogether subscribe to passive obedience. I will
tell you in one word what points I must have explanation on; and it will remain with you to
give it, or to return a message to the King that you will not explain your plan; in which case,
if he acts by my advice, he will leave Woodstock, and resume his purpose of getting to the
coast without delay."

"Well, then," said the Doctor, "thou suspicious monster, make thy demands, and, if they be
such as I can answer without betraying confidence, I will reply to them."

"In the first place, then, what is all this story about ghosts, and witch-crafts, and apparitions?
and do you consider it as safe for his Majesty to stay in a house subject to such visitations,
real or pretended?"

"You must be satisfied with my answer in verbo sacerdotis--the circumstances you allude to
will not give the least annoyance to Woodstock during the King's residence. I cannot explain
farther; but for this I will be bound, at the risk of my neck."

"Then," said Lee, "we must take Dr. Rochecliffe's bail that the devil will keep the peace towards
our Sovereign Lord the King--good. Now there lurked about this house the greater part of yesterday,
and perhaps slept here, a fellow called Tomkins,--a bitter Independent, and a secretary, or
clerk, or something or other, to the regicide dog Desborough. The man is well known--a wild
ranter in religious opinions, but in private affairs far-sighted, cunning, and interested even
as any rogue of them all."

"Be assured we will avail ourselves of his crazy fanaticism to mislead his wicked cunning;--a
child may lead a hog, if it has wit to fasten a cord to the ring in its nose," replied the Doctor.

"You may be deceived," said Albert; "the age has many such as this fellow, whose views of the
spiritual and temporal world are so different, that they resemble the eyes of a squinting man;
one of which, oblique and distorted, sees nothing but the end of his nose, while the other,
instead of partaking the same defect, views strongly, sharply, and acutely, whatever is subjected
to its scrutiny."

"But we will put a patch on the better eye," said the Doctor, "and he shall only be allowed
to speculate with the imperfect optic. You must know, this fellow has always seen the greatest
number, and the most hideous apparitions; he has not the courage of a cat in such matters,
though stout enough when he hath temporal antagonists before him. I have placed him under the
charge of Joceline Joliffe, who, betwixt plying him with sack and ghost-stories, would make
him incapable of knowing what was done, if you were to proclaim the King in his presence."

"But why keep such a fellow here at all?"

"Oh, sir, content you;--he lies leaguer, as a sort of ambassador for his worthy masters, and
we are secure from any intrusion so long as they get all the news of Woodstock from Trusty
Tomkins."

"I know Joceline's honesty well," said Albert; "and if he can assure me that he will keep a
watch over this fellow, I will so far trust in him. He does not know the depth of the stake,
'tis true, but that my life is concerned will be quite enough to keep him vigilant.--Well,
then, I proceed:--What if Markham Everard comes down on us?"

"We have his word to the contrary," answered Rochecliffe--"his word of honour, transmitted
by his friend:--Do you think it likely he will break it?"

"I hold him incapable of doing so," answered Albert; "and, besides, I think Markham would make
no bad use of any thing which might come to his knowledge--Yet God forbid we should be under
the necessity of trusting any who ever wore the Parliament's colours in a matter of such dear
concernment!"

"Amen!" said the Doctor.--"Are your doubts silenced now?"

"I still have an objection," said Albert, "to yonder impudent rakehelly fellow, styling himself
a cavalier, who rushed himself on our company last night, and gained my father's heart by a
story of the storm of Brentford, which I dare say the rogue never saw."

"You mistake him, dear Albert," replied Rochecliffe--"Roger Wildrake, although till of late
I only knew him by name, is a gentleman, was bred at the Inns of Court, and spent his estate
in the King's service."

"Or rather in the devil's service," said Albert. "It is such fellows as he, who, sunk from
the license of their military habits into idle debauched ruffians, infest the land with riots
and robberies, brawl in hedge alehouses and cellars where strong waters are sold at midnight,
and, with their deep oaths, their hot loyalty, and their drunken valour, make decent men abominate
the very name of cavalier."

"Alas!" said the Doctor, "it is but too true; but what can you expect? When the higher and
more qualified classes are broken down and mingled undistinguishably with the lower orders,
they are apt to lose the most valuable marks of their quality in the general confusion of morals
and manners--just as a handful of silver medals will become defaced and discoloured if jumbled
about among the vulgar copper coin. Even the prime medal of all, which we royalists would so
willingly wear next our very hearts, has not, perhaps, entirely escaped some deterioration--But
let other tongues than mine speak on that subject."

Albert Lee paused deeply after having heard these communications on the part of Rochecliffe.
"Doctor," he said, "it is generally agreed, even by some who think you may occasionally have
been a little over busy in putting men upon dangerous actions"--

"May God forgive them who entertain so false an opinion of me," said the Doctor.

--"That, nevertheless, you have done and suffered more in the King's behalf than any man of
your function."

"They do me but justice there," said Dr. Rochecliffe--"absolute justice."

"I am therefore disposed to abide by your opinion, if, all things considered, you think it
safe that we should remain at Woodstock."

"That is not the question," answered the divine.

"And what is the question, then?" replied the young soldier.

"Whether any safer course can be pointed out. I grieve to say, that the question must be comparative,
as to the point of option. Absolute safety is--alas the while!--out of the question on all
sides. Now, I say Woodstock is, fenced and guarded as at present, by far the most preferable
place of concealment."

"Enough," replied Albert; "I give up to you the question, as to a person whose knowledge of
such important affairs, not to mention your age and experience, is more intimate and extensive
than mine can be."

"You do well," answered Rochecliffe; "and if others had acted with the like distrust of their
own knowledge, and confidence in competent persons, it had been better for the age. This makes
Understanding bar himself up within his fortalice, and Wit betake himself to his high tower."
(Here he looked around his cell with an air of self-complacence.) "The wise man forseeth the
tempest, and hideth himself."

"Doctor," said Albert, "let our foresight serve others far more precious than either of us.
Let me ask you, if you have well considered whether our precious charge should remain in society
with the family, or betake himself to some of the more hidden corners of the house?"

"Hum!" said the Doctor, with an air of deep reflection--"I think he will be safest as Louis
Kerneguy, keeping himself close beside you"--

"I fear it will be necessary," added Albert, "that I scout abroad a little, and show myself
in some distant part of the country, lest, coming here in quest of me, they should find higher
game."

"Pray do not interrupt me--Keeping himself close beside you or your father, in or near to Victor
Lee's apartment, from which you are aware he can make a ready escape, should danger approach.
This occurs to me as best for the present--I hope to hear of the vessel to-day--to-morrow at
farthest."

Albert Lee bid the active but opiniated man good morrow; admiring how this species of intrigue
had become a sort of element in which the Doctor seemed to enjoy himself, notwithstanding all
that the poet has said concerning the horrors which intervene betwixt the conception and execution
of a conspiracy.

In returning from Dr. Rochecliffe's sanctuary, he met with Joceline, who was anxiously seeking
him. "The young Scotch gentleman," he said, in a mysterious manner, "has arisen from bed, and,
hearing me pass, he called me into his apartment."

"Well," replied Albert, "I will see him presently."

"And he asked me for fresh linen and clothes. Now, sir, he is like a man who is quite accustomed
to be obeyed, so I gave him a suit which happened to be in a wardrobe in the west tower, and
some of your linen to conform; and when he was dressed, he commanded me to show him to the
presence of Sir Henry Lee and my young lady. I would have said something, sir, about waiting
till you came back, but he pulled me goodnaturedly by the hair, (as, indeed, he has a rare
humour of his own,) and told me, he was guest to Master Albert Lee, and not his prisoner; so,
sir, though I thought you might be displeased with me for giving him the means of stirring
abroad, and perhaps being seen by those who should not see him, what could I say?"

"You are a sensible fellow, Joceline, and comprehend always what is recommended to you. This
youth will not be controlled, I fear, by either of us; but we must look the closer after his
safety. You keep your watch over that prying fellow the steward?"

"Trust him to my care--on that side have no fear. But ah, sir! I would we had the young Scot
in his old clothes again, for the riding-suit of yours which he now wears hath set him off
in other-guess fashion."

From the manner in which the faithful dependent expressed himself, Albert saw that he suspected
who the Scottish page in reality was; yet he did not think it proper to acknowledge to him
a fact of such importance, secure as he was equally of his fidelity, whether explicitly trusted
to the full extent, or left to his own conjectures. Full of anxious thought, he went to the
apartment of Victor Lee, in which Joliffe told him he would find the party assembled. The sound
of laughter, as he laid his hand on the lock of the door, almost made him start, so singularly
did it jar with the doubtful and melancholy reflections which engaged his own mind. He entered,
and found his father in high good-humour, laughing and conversing freely with his young charge,
whose appearance was, indeed, so much changed to the better in externals, that it seemed scarce
possible a night's rest, a toilet, and a suit of decent clothes, could have done so much in
his favour in so short a time. It could not, however, be imputed to the mere alteration of
dress, although that, no doubt, had its effect. There was nothing splendid in that which Louis
Kerneguy (we continue to call him by his assumed name) now wore. It was merely a riding-suit
of grey cloth, with some silver lace, in the fashion of a country gentleman of the time. But
it happened to fit him very well, and to become his very dark complexion, especially as he
now held up his head, and used the manners, not only of a well-behaved but of a highly-accomplished
gentleman. When he moved, his clumsy and awkward limp was exchanged for a sort of shuffle,
which, as it might be the consequence of a wound in those perilous times, had rather an interesting
than an ungainly effect. At least it was as genteel an expression that the party had been overhard
travelled, as the most polite pedestrian could propose to himself.

The features of the Wanderer were harsh as ever, but his red shock peruke, for such it proved,
was laid aside, his sable elf-locks were trained, by a little of Joceline's assistance, into
curls, and his fine black eyes shone from among the shade of these curls, and corresponded
with the animated, though not handsome, character of the whole head. In his conversation, he
had laid aside all the coarseness of dialect which he had so strongly affected on the preceding
evening; and although he continued to speak a little Scotch, for the support of his character
as a young gentleman of that nation, yet it was not in a degree which rendered his speech either
uncouth or unintelligible, but merely afforded a certain Doric tinge essential to the personage
he represented. No person on earth could better understand the society in which he moved; exile
had made him acquainted with life in all its shades and varieties;--his spirits, if not uniform,
were elastic--he had that species of Epicurean philosophy, which, even in the most extreme
difficulties and dangers, can, in an interval of ease, however brief, avail itself of the enjoyments
of the moment--he was, in short, in youth and misfortune, as afterwards in his regal condition,
a good-humoured but hard-hearted voluptuary--wise, save where his passions intervened--beneficent,
save when prodigality had deprived him of the means, or prejudice of the wish, to confer benefits--his
faults such as might often have drawn down hatred, but that they were mingled with so much
urbanity, that the injured person felt it impossible to retain the full sense of his wrongs.

Albert Lee found the party, consisting of his father, sister, and the supposed page, seated
by the breakfast-table, at which he also took his place. He was a pensive and anxious beholder
of what passed, while the page, who had already completely gained the heart of the good old
cavalier, by mimicking the manner in which the Scottish divines preached in favour of Ma gude
Lord Marquis of Argyle and the Solemn League and Covenant, was now endeavouring to interest
the fair Alice by such anecdotes, partly of warlike and perilous adventure, as possessed the
same degree of interest for the female ear which they have had ever since Desdemona's days.
But it was not only of dangers by land and sea that the disguised page spoke; but much more,
and much oftener, on foreign revels, banquets, balls, where the pride of France, of Spain,
or of the Low Countries, was exhibited in the eyes of their most eminent beauties. Alice being
a very young girl, who, in consequence of the Civil War, had been almost entirely educated
in the country, and often in great seclusion, it was certainly no wonder that she should listen
with willing ears, and a ready smile, to what the young gentleman, their guest, and her brother's
protege, told with so much gaiety, and mingled with such a shade of dangerous adventure, and
occasionally of serious reflection, as prevented the discourse from being regarded as merely
light and frivolous.

In a word, Sir Henry Lee laughed, Alice smiled from time to time, and all were satisfied but
Albert, who would himself, however, have been scarce able to allege a sufficient reason for
his depression of spirits. The materials of breakfast were at last removed, under the active
superintendence of the neat-handed Phoebe, who looked over her shoulder, and lingered more
than once, to listen to the fluent discourse of their new guest, whom, on the preceding evening,
she had, while in attendance at supper, accounted one of the most stupid inmates to whom the
gates of Woodstock had been opened since the times of Fair Rosamond.

Louis Kerneguy then, when they were left only four in the chamber, without the interruption
of domestics, and the successive bustle occasioned by the discussion and removal of the morning
meal, became apparently sensible, that his friend and ostensible patron Albert ought not altogether
to be suffered to drop to leeward in the conversation, while he was himself successfully engaging
the attention of those members of his family to whom he had become so recently known. He went
behind his chair, therefore, and, leaning on the back, said with a good-humoured tone, which
made his purpose entirely intelligible,--

"Either my good friend, guide, and patron, has heard worse news this morning than he cares
to tell us, or he must have stumbled over my tattered jerkin and leathern hose, and acquired,
by contact, the whole mass of stupidity which I threw off last night with those most dolorous
garments. Cheer up, my dear Colonel Albert, if your affectionate page may presume to say so--you
are in company with those whose society, dear to strangers, must be doubly so to you. Oddsfish,
man, cheer up! I have seen you gay on a biscuit and a mouthful of water-cresses--don't let
your heart fail you on Rhenish wine and venison."

"Dear Louis," said Albert, rousing himself into exertion, and somewhat ashamed of his own silence,
"I have slept worse, and been astir earlier than you."

"Be it so," said his father; "yet I hold it no good excuse for your sullen silence. Albert,
you have met your sister and me, so long separated from you, so anxious on your behalf, almost
like mere strangers, and yet you are returned safe to us, and you find us well."

"Returned indeed--but for safety, my dear father, that word must be a stranger to us Worcester
folk for some time. However, it is not my own safety about which I am anxious."

"About whose, then, should you be anxious?--All accounts agree that the King is safe out of
the dogs' jaws."

"Not without some danger, though," muttered Louis, thinking of his encounter with Bevis on
the preceding evening.

"No, not without danger, indeed," echoed the knight; "but, as old Will says,--

  'There's such divinity doth hedge a king,
  That treason dares not peep at what it would.'

"No, no--thank God, that's cared for; our Hope and Fortune is escaped, so all news affirm,
escaped from Bristol--if I thought otherwise, Albert, I should be as sad as you are. For the
rest of it, I have lurked a month in this house when discovery would have been death, and that
is no longer since than after Lord Holland and the Duke of Buckingham's rising at Kingston;
and hang me, if I thought once of twisting my brow into such a tragic fold as yours, but cocked
my hat at misfortune as a cavalier should."

"If I might put in a word," said Louis, "it would be to assure Colonel Albert Lee that I verily
believe the King would think his own hap, wherever he may be, much the worse that his best
subjects were seized with dejection on his account."

"You answer boldly on the King's part, young man," said Sir Henry.

"Oh, my father was meikle about the King's hand," answered Louis, recollecting his present
character.

"No wonder, then," said Sir Henry, "that you have so soon recovered your good spirits and good
breeding, when you heard of his Majesty's escape. Why, you are no more like the lad we saw
last night, than the best hunter I ever had was like a dray-horse."

"Oh, there is much in rest, and food, and grooming," answered Louis. "You would hardly know
the tired jade you dismounted from last night, when she is brought out prancing and neighing
the next morning, rested, refreshed, and ready to start again--especially if the brute hath
some good blood, for such pick up unco fast."

"Well, then, but since thy father was a courtier, and thou hast learned, I think, something
of the trade, tell us a little, Master Kerneguy, of him we love most to hear about--the King;
we are all safe and secret, you need not be afraid. He was a hopeful youth; I trust his flourishing
blossom now gives promise of fruit?"

As the knight spoke, Louis bent his eyes on the ground, and seemed at first uncertain what
to answer. But, admirable at extricating himself from such dilemmas, he replied, "that he really
could not presume to speak on such a subject in the presence of his patron, Colonel Albert
Lee, who must be a much better judge of the character of King Charles than he could pretend to be."

Albert was accordingly next assailed by the Knight, seconded by Alice, for some account of
his Majesty's character.

"I will speak but according to facts," said Albert; "and then I must be acquitted of partiality.
If the King had not possessed enterprise and military skill, he never would have attempted
the expedition to Worcester;--had he not had personal courage, he had not so long disputed
the battle that Cromwell almost judged it lost. That he possesses prudence and patience, must
be argued from the circumstances attending his flight; and that he has the love of his subjects
is evident, since, necessarily known to many, he has been betrayed by none."

"For shame, Albert!" replied his sister; "is that the way a good cavalier doles out the character
of his Prince, applying an instance at every concession, like a pedlar measuring linen with
his rod?--Out upon you!--no wonder you were beaten, if you fought as coldly for your King as
you now talk for him."

"I did my best to trace a likeness from what I have seen and known of the original, sister
Alice," replied her brother.--"If you would have a fancy portrait, you must get an artist of
more imagination than I have to draw it for you."

"I will be that artist myself" said Alice; "and, in my portrait, our Monarch shall show all
that he ought to be, having such high pretensions--all that he must be, being so loftily descended--all
that I am sure he is, and that every loyal heart in the kingdom ought to believe him."

"Well said, Alice," quoth the old knight--"Look thou upon this picture, and on this!--Here
is our young friend shall judge. I wager my best nag--that is, I would wager him had I one
left--that Alice proves the better painter of the two.--My son's brain is still misty, I think,
since his defeat--he has not got the smoke of Worcester out of it. Plague on thee!--a young
man, and cast down for one beating? Had you been banged twenty times like me, it had been time
to look grave.--But come, Alice, forward; the colours are mixed on your pallet--forward with
something that shall show like one of Vandyck's living portraits, placed beside the dull dry
presentation there of our ancestor Victor Lee."

Alice, it must be observed, had been educated by her father in the notions of high and even
exaggerated loyalty, which characterized the cavaliers, and she was really an enthusiast in
the royal cause. But, besides, she was in good spirits at her brother's happy return, and wished
to prolong the gay humour in which her father had of late scarcely ever indulged.

"Well, then," she said, "though I am no Apelles, I will try to paint an Alexander, such as
I hope, and am determined to believe, exists in the person of our exiled sovereign, soon I
trust to be restored. And I will not go farther than his own family. He shall have all the
chivalrous courage, all the warlike skill, of Henry of France, his grandfather, in order to
place him on the throne; all his benevolence, love of his people, patience even of unpleasing
advice, sacrifice of his own wishes and pleasures to the commonweal, that, seated there, he
may be blest while living, and so long remembered when dead, that for ages after it shall be
thought sacrilege to breathe an aspersion against the throne which he had occupied! Long after
he is dead, while there remains an old man who has seen him, were the condition of that survivor
no higher than a groom or a menial, his age shall be provided for at the public charge, and
his grey hairs regarded with more distinction than an earl's coronet, because he remembers
the Second Charles, the monarch of every heart in England!"

While Alice spoke, she was hardly conscious of the presence of any one save her father and
brother; for the page withdrew himself somewhat from the circle, and there was nothing to remind
her of him. She gave the reins, therefore, to her enthusiasm; and as the tears glittered in
her eye, and her beautiful features became animated, she seemed like a descended cherub proclaiming
the virtues of a patriot monarch. The person chiefly interested in her description held himself
back, as we have said, and concealed his own features, yet so as to preserve a full view of
the beautiful speaker.

Albert Lee, conscious in whose presence this eulogium was pronounced, was much embarrassed;
but his father, all whose feelings were flattered by the panegyric, was in rapture.

"So much for the King, Alice," he said, "and now for the Man."

"For the man," replied Alice, in the same tone, "need I wish him more than the paternal virtues
of his unhappy father, of whom his worst enemies have recorded, that if moral virtues and religious
faith were to be selected as the qualities which merited a crown, no man could plead the possession
of them in a higher or more indisputable degree. Temperate, wise, and frugal, yet munificent
in rewarding merit--a friend to letters and the muses, but a severe discourager of the misuse
of such gifts--a worthy gentleman--a kind master--the best friend, the best father, the best
Christian"--Her voice began to falter, and her father's handkerchief was already at his eyes.

"He was, girl, he was!" exclaimed Sir Henry; "but no more on't, I charge ye--no more on't--enough;
let his son but possess his virtues, with better advisers, and better fortunes, and he will
be all that England, in her warmest wishes, could desire."

There was a pause after this; for Alice felt as if she had spoken too frankly and too zealously
for her sex and youth. Sir Henry was occupied in melancholy recollections on the fate of his
late sovereign, while Kerneguy and his supposed patron felt embarrassed, perhaps from a consciousness
that the real Charles fell far short of his ideal character, as designed in such glowing colours.
In some cases, exaggerated or unappropriate praise becomes the most severe satire.

But such reflections were not of a nature to be long willingly cherished by the person to whom
they might have been of great advantage. He assumed a tone of raillery, which is, perhaps,
the readiest mode of escaping from the feelings of self-reproof. "Every cavalier," he said,
"should bend his knee to thank Mistress Alice Lee for having made such a flattering portrait
of the King their master, by laying under contribution for his benefit the virtues of all his
ancestors; only there was one point he would not have expected a female painter to have passed
over in silence. When she made him, in right of his grandfather and father, a muster of royal
and individual excellences, why could she not have endowed him at the same time with his mother's
personal charms? Why should not the son of Henrietta Maria, the finest woman of her day, add
the recommendations of a handsome face and figure to his internal qualities? He had the same
hereditary title to good looks as to mental qualifications; and the picture, with such an addition,
would be perfect in its way--and God send it might be a resemblance."

"I understand you, Master Kerneguy," said Alice; "but I am no fairy, to bestow, as those do
in the nursery tales, gifts which Providence has denied. I am woman enough to have made enquiries
on the subject, and I know the general report is, that the King, to have been the son of such
handsome parents, is unusually hard-favoured."

"Good God, sister!" said Albert, starting impatiently from his seat. "Why, you yourself told
me so," said Alice, surprised at the emotion he testified; "and you said"--

"This is intolerable," muttered Albert; "I must out to speak with Joceline without delay--Louis,"
(with an imploring look to Kerneguy,) "you will surely come with me?"

"I would with all my heart," said Kerneguy, smiling maliciously; "but you see how I suffer
still from lameness.--Nay, nay, Albert," he whispered, resisting young Lee's attempt to prevail
on him to leave the room, "can you suppose I am fool enough to be hurt by this?--on the contrary,
I have a desire of profiting by it."

"May God grant it!" said Lee to himself, as he left the room--"it will be the first lecture
you ever profited by; and the devil confound the plots and plotters who made me bring you to
this place!" So saying, he carried his discontent forth into the Park.

       *       *        *       *        *

CHAPTER THE TWENTY-THIRD.
    RICHARD II.

The conversation which Albert had in vain endeavoured to interrupt, flowed on in the same course
after he had left the room. It entertained Louis Kerneguy; for personal vanity, or an over-sensitiveness
to deserved reproof, were not among the faults of his character, and were indeed incompatible
with an understanding, which, combined with more strength of principle, steadiness of exertion,
and self-denial, might have placed Charles high on the list of English monarchs. On the other
hand, Sir Henry listened with natural delight to the noble sentiments uttered by a being so
beloved as his daughter. His own parts were rather steady than brilliant; and he had that species
of imagination which is not easily excited without the action of another, as the electrical
globe only scintillates when rubbed against its cushion. He was well pleased, therefore, when
Kerneguy pursued the conversation, by observing that Mistress Alice Lee had not explained how
the same good fairy that conferred moral qualities, could not also remove corporeal blemishes.

"You mistake, sir," said Alice. "I confer nothing. I do but attempt to paint our King such
as I hope he is--such as I am sure he may be, should he himself desire to be so. The same general
report which speaks of his countenance as unprepossessing, describes his talents as being of
the first order. He has, therefore, the means of arriving at excellence, should he cultivate
them sedulously and employ them usefully--should he rule his passions and be guided by his
understanding. Every good man cannot be wise; but it is in the power of every wise man, if
he pleases, to be as eminent for virtue as for talent."

Young Kerneguy rose briskly, and took a turn through the room; and ere the knight could make
any observation on the singular vivacity in which he had indulged, he threw himself again into
his chair, and said, in rather an altered tone of voice--"It seems, then, Mistress Alice Lee,
that the good friends who have described this poor King to you, have been as unfavourable in
their account of his morals as of his person?"

"The truth must be better known to you, sir," said Alice, "than it can be to me. Some rumours
there have been which accuse him of a license, which, whatever allowance flatterers make for
it, does not, to say the least, become the son of the Martyr--I shall be happy to have these
contradicted on good authority."

"I am surprised at your folly," said Sir Henry Lee, "in hinting at such things, Alice; a pack
of scandal, invented by the rascals who have usurped the government--a thing devised by the enemy."

"Nay, sir," said Kerneguy, laughing, "we must not let our zeal charge the enemy with more scandal
than they actually deserve. Mistress Alice has put the question to me. I can only answer, that
no one can be more devotedly attached to the King than I myself,--that I am very partial to
his merits and blind to his defects;--and that, in short, I would be the last man in the world
to give up his cause where it was tenable. Nevertheless, I must confess, that if all his grandfather
of Navarre's morals have not descended to him, this poor King has somehow inherited a share
of the specks that were thought to dim the lustre of that great Prince--that Charles is a little
soft-hearted, or so, where beauty is concerned.--Do not blame him too severely, pretty Mistress
Alice; when a man's hard fate has driven him among thorns, it were surely hard to prevent him
from trifling with the few roses he may find among them?"

Alice, who probably thought the conversation had gone far enough, rose while Master Kerneguy
was speaking, and was leaving the room before he had finished, without apparently hearing the
interrogation with which he concluded. Her father approved of her departure, not thinking the
turn which Kerneguy had given to the discourse altogether fit for her presence; and, desirous
civilly to break off the conversation, "I see," he said, "this is about the time, when, as
Will says, the household affairs will call my daughter hence; I will therefore challenge you,
young gentleman, to stretch your limbs in a little exercise with me, either at single rapier,
or rapier and poniard, back-sword, spadroon, or your national weapons of broad-sword and target;
for all or any of which I think we shall find implements in the hall."

It would be too high a distinction, Master Kerneguy said, for a poor page to be permitted to
try a passage of arms with a knight so renowned as Sir Henry Lee, and he hoped to enjoy so
great an honour before he left Woodstock; but at the present moment his lameness continued
to give him so much pain, that he should shame himself in the attempt.

Sir Henry then offered to read him a play of Shakspeare, and for this purpose turned up King
Richard II. But hardly had he commenced with

  "Old John of Gaunt, time-honored Lancaster,"

when the young gentleman was seized with such an incontrollable fit of the cramp as could only
be relieved by immediate exercise. He therefore begged permission to be allowed to saunter
abroad for a little while, if Sir Henry Lee considered he might venture without danger.

"I can answer for the two or three of our people that are still left about the place," said
Sir Henry; "and I know my son has disposed them so as to be constantly on the watch. If you
hear the bell toll at the Lodge, I advise you to come straight home by the way of the King's
Oak, which you see in yonder glade towering above the rest of the trees. We will have some
one stationed there to introduce you secretly into the house."

The page listened to these cautions with the impatience of a schoolboy, who, desirous of enjoying
his holiday, hears without marking the advice of tutor or parent, about taking care not to
catch cold, and so forth.

The absence of Alice Lee had removed all which had rendered the interior of the Lodge agreeable,
and the mercurial young page fled with precipitation from the exercise and amusement which
Sir Henry had proposed. He girded on his rapier, and threw his cloak, or rather that which
belonged to his borrowed suit, about him, bringing up the lower part so as to muffle the face
and show only the eyes over it, which was a common way of wearing them in those days, both
in streets, in the country, and in public places, when men had a mind to be private, and to
avoid interruption from salutations and greetings in the market-place. He hurried across the
open space which divided the front of the Lodge from the wood, with the haste of a bird, escaped
from the cage, which, though joyful at its liberation, is at the same time sensible of its
need of protection and shelter. The wood seemed to afford these to the human fugitive, as it
might have done to the bird in question.

When under the shadow of the branches, and within the verge of the forest, covered from observation,
yet with the power of surveying the front of the Lodge, and all the open ground before it,
the supposed Louis Kerneguy meditated on his escape.

"What an infliction--to fence with a gouty old man, who knows not, I dare say, a trick of the
sword which was not familiar in the days of old Vincent Saviolo! or, as a change of misery,
to hear him read one of those wildernesses of scenes which the English call a play, from prologue
to epilogue--from Enter the first to the final Exeunt omnes--an unparalleled horror--a penance
which would have made a dungeon darker, and added dullness even to Woodstock!"

Here he stopped and looked around, then continued his meditations--"So, then, it was here that
the gay old Norman secluded his pretty mistress--I warrant, without having seen her, that Rosamond
Clifford was never half so handsome as that lovely Alice Lee. And what a soul there is in the
girl's eye!--with what abandonment of all respects, save that expressing the interest of the
moment, she poured forth her tide of enthusiasm! Were I to be long here, in spite of prudence,
and half-a-dozen very venerable obstacles beside, I should be tempted to try to reconcile her
to the indifferent visage of this same hard-favoured Prince.--Hard favoured?--it is a kind
of treason for one who pretends to so much loyalty, to say so of the King's features, and in
my mind deserves punishment.--Ah, pretty Mistress Alice! many a Mistress Alice before you has
made dreadful exclamations on the irregularities of mankind, and the wickedness of the age,
and ended by being glad to look out for apologies for their own share in them. But then her
father--the stout old cavalier--my father's old friend--should such a thing befall, it would
break his heart.--Break a pudding's-end--he has more sense. If I give his grandson a title
to quarter the arms of England, what matter if a bar sinister is drawn across them?--Pshaw!
far from an abatement, it is a point of addition--the heralds in their next visitation will
place him higher in the roll for it. Then, if he did wince a little at first, does not the
old traitor deserve it;--first, for his disloyal intention of punching mine anointed body black
and blue with his vile foils--and secondly, his atrocious complot with Will Shakspeare, a fellow
as much out of date as himself, to read me to death with five acts of a historical play, or
chronicle, 'being the piteous Life and Death of Richard the Second?' Odds-fish, my own life
is piteous enough, as I think; and my death may match it, for aught I see coming yet. Ah, but
then the brother--my friend--my guide--my guard--So far as this little proposed intrigue concerns
him, such practising would be thought not quite fair. But your bouncing, swaggering, revengeful
brothers exist only on the theatre. Your dire revenge, with which a brother persecuted a poor
fellow who had seduced his sister, or been seduced by her, as the case might be, as relentlessly
as if he had trodden on his toes without making an apology, is entirely out of fashion, since
Dorset killed the Lord Bruce many a long year since. Pshaw! when a King is the offender, the
bravest man sacrifices nothing by pocketing a little wrong which he cannot personally resent.
And in France, there is not a noble house, where each individual would not cock his hat an
inch higher, if they could boast of such a left-handed alliance with the Grand Monarque."

Such were the thoughts which rushed through the mind of Charles, at his first quitting the
Lodge of Woodstock, and plunging into the forest that surrounded it. His profligate logic,
however, was not the result of his natural disposition, nor received without scruple by his
sound understanding. It was a train of reasoning which he had been led to adopt from his too
close intimacy with the witty and profligate youth of quality by whom he had been surrounded.
It arose from the evil communication with Villiers, Wilmot, Sedley, and others, whose genius
was destined to corrupt that age, and the Monarch on whom its character afterwards came so
much to depend. Such men, bred amidst the license of civil war, and without experiencing that
curb which in ordinary times the authority of parents and relations imposes upon the headlong
passions of youth, were practised in every species of vice, and could recommend it as well
by precept as by example, turning into pitiless ridicule all those nobler feelings which withhold
men from gratifying lawless passion. The events of the King's life had also favoured his reception
of this Epicurean doctrine. He saw himself, with the highest claims to sympathy and assistance,
coldly treated by the Courts which he visited, rather as a permitted supplicant, than an exiled
Monarch. He beheld his own rights and claims treated with scorn and indifference; and, in the
same proportion, he was reconciled to the hard-hearted and selfish course of dissipation, which
promised him immediate indulgence. If this was obtained at the expense of the happiness of
others, should he of all men be scrupulous upon the subject, since he treated others only as
the world treated him?

But although the foundations of this unhappy system had been laid, the Prince was not at this
early period so fully devoted to it as he was found to have become, when a door was unexpectedly
opened for his restoration. On the contrary, though the train of gay reasoning which we have
above stated, as if it had found vent in uttered language, did certainly arise in his mind,
as that which would have been suggested by his favourite counsellors on such occasions, he
recollected that what might be passed over as a peccadillo in France or the Netherlands, or
turned into a diverting novel or pasquinade by the wits of his own wandering Court, was likely
to have the aspect of horrid ingratitude and infamous treachery among the English gentry, and
would inflict a deep, perhaps an incurable wound upon his interests, among the more aged and
respectable part of his adherents. Then it occurred to him--for his own interest did not escape
him, even in this mode of considering the subject--that he was in the power of the Lees, father
and son, who were always understood to be at least sufficiently punctilious on the score of
honour; and if they should suspect such an affront as his imagination had conceived, they could
be at no loss to find means of the most ample revenge, either by their own hands, or by those
of the ruling faction.

"The risk of re-opening the fatal window at Whitehall, and renewing the tragedy of the Man
in the Mask, were a worse penalty," was his final reflection, "than the old stool of the Scottish
penance; and pretty though Alice Lee is, I cannot afford to intrigue at such a hazard. So,
farewell, pretty maiden! unless, as sometimes has happened, thou hast a humour to throw thyself
at thy King's feet, and then I am too magnanimous to refuse thee my protection. Yet, when I
think of the pale clay-cold figure of the old man, as he lay last night extended before me,
and imagine the fury of Albert Lee raging with impatience, his hand on a sword which only his
loyalty prevents him from plunging into his sovereign's heart--nay, the picture is too horrible!
Charles must for ever change his name to Joseph, even if he were strongly tempted; which may
Fortune in mercy prohibit!"

To speak the truth of a prince, more unfortunate in his early companions, and the callousness
which he acquired by his juvenile adventures and irregular mode of life, than in his natural
disposition, Charles came the more readily to this wise conclusion, because he was by no means
subject to those violent and engrossing passions, to gratify which the world has been thought
well lost. His amours, like many of the present day, were rather matters of habit and fashion,
than of passion and affection: and, in comparing himself in this respect to his grandfather,
Henry IV., he did neither his ancestor nor himself perfect justice. He was, to parody the words
of a bard, himself actuated by the stormy passions which an intriguer often only simulates,--

   None of those who loved so kindly,
   None of those who loved so blindly.

An amour was with him a matter of amusement, a regular consequence, as it seemed to him, of
the ordinary course of things in society. He was not at the trouble to practise seductive arts,
because he had seldom found occasion to make use of them; his high rank, and the profligacy
of part of the female society with which he had mingled, rendering them unnecessary. Added
to this, he had, for the same reason, seldom been crossed by the obstinate interference of
relations, or even of husbands, who had generally seemed not unwilling to suffer such matters
to take their course.

So that, notwithstanding his total looseness of principle, and systematic disbelief in the
virtue of women, and the honour of men, as connected with the character of their female relatives,
Charles was not a person to have studiously introduced disgrace into a family, where a conquest
might have been violently disputed, attained with difficulty, and accompanied with general
distress, not to mention the excitation of all fiercer passions against the author of the scandal.

But the danger of the King's society consisted in his being much of an unbeliever in the existence
of such cases as were likely to be embittered by remorse on the part of the principal victim,
or rendered perilous by the violent resentment of her connexions or relatives. He had even
already found such things treated on the continent as matters of ordinary occurrence, subject,
in all cases where a man of high influence was concerned, to an easy arrangement; and he was
really, generally speaking, sceptical on the subject of severe virtue in either sex, and apt
to consider it as a veil assumed by prudery in women, and hypocrisy in men, to extort a higher
reward for their compliance.

While we are discussing the character of his disposition to gallantry, the Wanderer was conducted,
by the walk he had chosen, through several whimsical turns, until at last it brought him under
the windows of Victor Lee's apartment, where he descried Alice watering and arranging some
flowers placed on the oriel window, which was easily accessible by daylight, although at night
he had found it a dangerous attempt to scale it. But not Alice only, her father also showed
himself near the window, and beckoned him up. The family party seemed now more promising than
before, and the fugitive Prince was weary of playing battledore and shuttlecock with his conscience,
and much disposed to let matters go as chance should determine.

He climbed lightly up the broken ascent, and was readily welcomed by the old knight, who held
activity in high honour. Alice also seemed glad to see the lively and interesting young man;
and by her presence, and the unaffected mirth with which she enjoyed his sallies, he was animated
to display those qualities of wit and humour, which nobody possessed in a higher degree.

His satire delighted the old gentleman, who laughed till his eyes ran over as he heard the
youth, whose claims to his respect he little dreamed of, amusing him with successive imitations
of the Scottish Presbyterian clergymen, of the proud and poor Hidalgo of the North, of the
fierce and over-weening pride and Celtic dialect of the mountain chief, of the slow and more
pedantic Lowlander, with all of which his residence in Scotland had made him familiar. Alice
also laughed, and applauded, amused herself, and delighted to see that her father was so; and
the whole party were in the highest glee, when Albert Lee entered, eager to find Louis Kerneguy,
and to lead him away to a private colloquy with Dr. Rochecliffe, whose zeal, assiduity, and
wonderful possession of information, had constituted him their master-pilot in those difficult
times.

It is unnecessary to introduce the reader to the minute particulars of their conference. The
information obtained was so far favourable, that the enemy seemed to have had no intelligence
of the King's route towards the south, and remained persuaded that he had made his escape from
Bristol, as had been reported, and as had indeed been proposed; but the master of the vessel
prepared for the King's passage had taken the alarm, and sailed without his royal freight.
His departure, however, and the suspicion of the service in which he was engaged, served to
make the belief general, that the King had gone off along with him.

But though this was cheering, the Doctor had more unpleasant tidings from the sea-coast, alleging
great difficulties in securing a vessel, to which it might be fit to commit a charge so precious;
and, above all, requesting his Majesty might on no account venture to approach the shore, until
he should receive advice that all the previous arrangements had been completely settled.

No one was able to suggest a safer place of residence than that which he at present occupied.
Colonel Everard was deemed certainly not personally unfriendly to the King; and Cromwell, as
was supposed, reposed in Everard an unbounded confidence. The interior presented numberless
hiding-places, and secret modes of exit, known to no one but the ancient residents of the Lodge--nay,
far better to Rochecliffe than to any of them; as, when Rector at the neighbouring town, his
prying disposition as an antiquary had induced him to make very many researches among the old
ruins--the results of which he was believed, in some instances, to have kept to himself.

To balance these conveniences, it was no doubt true, that the Parliamentary Commissioners were
still at no great distance, and would be ready to resume their authority upon the first opportunity.
But no one supposed such an opportunity was likely to occur; and all believed, as the influence
of Cromwell and the army grew more and more predominant, that the disappointed Commissioners
would attempt nothing in contradiction to his pleasure, but wait with patience an indemnification
in some other quarter for their vacated commissions. Report, through the voice of Master Joseph
Tomkins, stated, that they had determined, in the first place, to retire to Oxford, and were
making preparations accordingly. This promised still farther to insure the security of Woodstock.
It was therefore settled, that the King, under the character of Louis Kerneguy, should remain
an inmate of the Lodge, until a vessel should be procured for his escape, at the port which
might be esteemed the safest and most convenient.

       *       *        *       *        *

CHAPTER THE TWENTY-FOURTH.

   The deadliest snakes are those which, twined 'mongst flowers,
   Blend their bright colouring with the varied blossoms,
   Their fierce eyes glittering like the spangled dew-drop;
   In all so like what nature has most harmless,
   That sportive innocence, which dreads no danger,
   Is poison'd unawares.

   OLD PLAY.

Charles (we must now give him his own name) was easily reconciled to the circumstances which
rendered his residence at Woodstock advisable. No doubt he would much rather have secured his
safety by making an immediate escape out of England; but he had been condemned already to many
uncomfortable lurking-places, and more disagreeable disguises, as well as to long and difficult
journeys, during which, between pragmatical officers of justice belonging to the prevailing
party, and parties of soldiers whose officers usually took on them to act on their own warrant,
risk of discovery had more than once become very imminent. He was glad, therefore, of comparative
repose, and of comparative safety.

Then it must be considered, that Charles had been entirely reconciled to the society at Woodstock
since he had become better acquainted with it. He had seen, that, to interest the beautiful
Alice, and procure a great deal of her company, nothing more was necessary than to submit to
the humours, and cultivate the intimacy, of the old cavalier her father. A few bouts at fencing,
in which Charles took care not to put out his more perfect skill, and full youthful strength
and activity--the endurance of a few scenes from Shakspeare, which the knight read with more
zeal than taste--a little skill in music, in which the old man had been a proficient--the deference
paid to a few old-fashioned opinions, at which Charles laughed in his sleeve--were all-sufficient
to gain for the disguised Prince an interest in Sir Henry Lee, and to conciliate in an equal
degree the good-will of his lovely daughter.

Never were there two young persons who could be said to commence this species of intimacy with
such unequal advantages. Charles was a libertine, who, if he did not in cold blood resolve
upon prosecuting his passion for Alice to a dishonourable conclusion, was at every moment liable
to be provoked to attempt the strength of a virtue, in which he was no believer. Then Alice,
on her part, hardly knew even what was implied by the word libertine or seducer. Her mother
had died early in the commencement of the Civil War, and she had been bred up chiefly with
her brother and cousin; so that she had an unfearing and unsuspicious frankness of manner,
upon which Charles was not unwilling or unlikely to put a construction favourable to his own
views. Even Alice's love for her cousin--the first sensation which awakens the most innocent
and simple mind to feelings of shyness and restraint towards the male sex in general--had failed
to excite such an alarm in her bosom. They were nearly related; and Everard, though young,
was several years her elder, and had, from her infancy, been an object of her respect as well
as of her affection. When this early and childish intimacy ripened into youthful love, confessed
and returned, still it differed in some shades from the passion existing between lovers originally
strangers to each other, until their affections have been united in the ordinary course of
courtship. Their love was fonder, more familiar, more perfectly confidential; purer too, perhaps,
and more free from starts of passionate violence, or apprehensive jealousy.

The possibility that any one could have attempted to rival Everard in her affection, was a
circumstance which never occurred to Alice; and that this singular Scottish lad, whom she laughed
with on account of his humour, and laughed at for his peculiarities, should be an object of
danger or of caution, never once entered her imagination. The sort of intimacy to which she
admitted Kerneguy was the same to which she would have received a companion of her own sex,
whose manners she did not always approve, but whose society she found always amusing.

It was natural that the freedom of Alice Lee's conduct, which arose from the most perfect indifference,
should pass for something approaching to encouragement in the royal gallant's apprehension,
and that any resolutions he had formed against being tempted to violate the hospitality of
Woodstock, should begin to totter, as opportunities for doing so became more frequent.

These opportunities were favoured by Albert's departure from Woodstock the very day after his
arrival. It had been agreed, in full council with Charles and Rochecliffe, that he should go
to visit his uncle Everard in the county of Kent, and, by showing himself there, obviate any
cause of suspicion which might arise from his residence at Woodstock, and remove any pretext
for disturbing his father's family on account of their harbouring one who had been so lately
in arms. He had also undertaken, at his own great personal risk, to visit different points
on the sea-coast, and ascertain the security of different places for providing shipping for
the King's leaving England.

These circumstances were alike calculated to procure the King's safety, and facilitate his
escape. But Alice was thereby deprived of the presence of her brother, who would have been
her most watchful guardian, but who had set down the King's light talk upon a former occasion
to the gaiety of his humour, and would have thought he had done his sovereign great injustice,
had he seriously suspected him of such a breach of hospitality as a dishonourable pursuit of
Alice would have implied.

There were, however, two of the household at Woodstock, who appeared not so entirely reconciled
with Louis Kerneguy or his purposes. The one was Bevis, who seemed, from their first unfriendly
rencontre, to have kept up a pique against their new guest, which no advances on the part of
Charles were able to soften. If the page was by chance left alone with his young mistress,
Bevis chose always to be of the party; came close by Alice's chair, and growled audibly when
the gallant drew near her. "It is a pity," said the disguised Prince, "that your Bevis is not
a bull-dog, that we might dub him a roundhead at once--He is too handsome, too noble, too aristocratic,
to nourish those inhospitable prejudices against a poor houseless cavalier. I am convinced
the spirit of Pym or Hampden has transmigrated into the rogue and continues to demonstrate
his hatred against royalty and all its adherents."

Alice would then reply, that Bevis was loyal in word and deed, and only partook her father's
prejudices against the Scots, which, she could not but acknowledge, were tolerably strong.

"Nay, then," said the supposed Louis, "I must find some other reason, for I cannot allow Sir
Bevis's resentment to rest upon national antipathy. So we will suppose that some gallant cavalier,
who wended to the wars and never returned, has adopted this shape to look back upon the haunts
he left so unwillingly, and is jealous at seeing even poor Louis Kerneguy drawing near to the
lady of his lost affections."--He approached her chair as he spoke, and Bevis gave one of his
deep growls.

"In that case, you had best keep your distance," said Alice, laughing, "for the bite of a dog,
possessed by the ghost of a jealous lover, cannot be very safe." And the King carried on the
dialogue in the same strain--which, while it led Alice to apprehend nothing more serious than
the apish gallantry of a fantastic boy, certainly induced the supposed Louis Kerneguy to think
that he had made one of those conquests which often and easily fall to the share of sovereigns.
Notwithstanding the acuteness of his apprehension, he was not sufficiently aware that the Royal
Road to female favour is only open to monarchs when they travel in grand costume, and that
when they woo incognito, their path of courtship is liable to the same windings and obstacles
which obstruct the course of private individuals.

There was, besides Bevis, another member of the family, who kept a look-out upon Louis Kerneguy,
and with no friendly eye. Phoebe Mayflower, though her experience extended not beyond the sphere
of the village, yet knew the world much better than her mistress, and besides she was five
years older. More knowing, she was more suspicious. She thought that odd-looking Scotch boy
made more up to her young mistress than was proper for his condition of life; and, moreover,
that Alice gave him a little more encouragement than Parthenia would have afforded to any such
Jack-a-dandy, in the absence of Argalus--for the volume treating of the loves of these celebrated
Arcadians was then the favourite study of swains and damsels throughout merry England. Entertaining
such suspicions, Phoebe was at a loss how to conduct herself on the occasion, and yet resolved
she would not see the slightest chance of the course of Colonel Everard's true love being obstructed,
without attempting a remedy. She had a peculiar favour for Markham herself; and, moreover,
he was, according to her phrase, as handsome and personable a young man as was in Oxfordshire;
and this Scottish scarecrow was no more to be compared to him than chalk was to cheese. And
yet she allowed that Master Girnigy had a wonderfully well-oiled tongue, and that such gallants
were not to be despised. What was to be done?--she had no facts to offer, only vague suspicion;
and was afraid to speak to her mistress, whose kindness, great as it was, did not, nevertheless,
encourage familiarity.

She sounded Joceline; but he was, she knew not why, so deeply interested about this unlucky
lad, and held his importance so high, that she could make no impression on him. To speak to
the old knight would have been to raise a general tempest. The worthy chaplain, who was, at
Woodstock, grand referee on all disputed matters, would have been the damsel's most natural
resource, for he was peaceful as well as moral by profession, and politic by practice. But
it happened he had given Phoebe unintentional offence by speaking of her under the classical
epithet of Rustica Fidele, the which epithet, as she understood it not, she held herself bound
to resent as contumelious, and declaring she was not fonder of a fiddle than other folk, had
ever since shunned all intercourse with Dr. Rochecliffe which she could easily avoid.

Master Tomkins was always coming and going about the house under various pretexts; but he was
a roundhead, and she was too true to the cavaliers to introduce any of the enemy as parties
to their internal discords; besides, he had talked to Phoebe herself in a manner which induced
her to decline everything in the shape of familiarity with him. Lastly, Cavaliero Wildrake
might have been consulted; but Phoebe had her own reasons for saying, as she did with some
emphasis, that Cavaliero Wildrake was an impudent London rake. At length she resolved to communicate
her suspicions to the party having most interest in verifying or confuting them.

"I'll let Master Markham Everard know, that there is a wasp buzzing about his honey-comb,"
said Phoebe; "and, moreover, that I know that this young Scotch Scapegrace shifted himself
out of a woman's into a man's dress at Goody Green's, and gave Goody Green's Dolly a gold-piece
to say nothing about it; and no more she did to any one but me, and she knows best herself
whether she gave change for the gold or not--but Master Louis is a saucy jackanapes, and like
enough to ask it."

Three or four days elapsed while matters continued in this condition--the disguised Prince
sometimes thinking on the intrigue which Fortune seemed to have thrown in his way for his amusement,
and taking advantage of such opportunities as occurred to increase his intimacy with Alice
Lee; but much oftener harassing Dr. Rochecliffe with questions about the possibility of escape,
which the good man finding himself unable to answer, secured his leisure against royal importunity,
by retreating into the various unexplored recesses of the Lodge, known perhaps only to himself,
who had been for nearly a score of years employed in writing the Wonders of Woodstock.

It chanced on the fourth day, that some trifling circumstance had called the knight abroad;
and he had left the young Scotsman, now familiar in the family, along with Alice, in the parlour
of Victor Lee. Thus situated, he thought the time not unpropitious for entering upon a strain
of gallantry, of a kind which might be called experimental, such as is practised by the Croats
in skirmishing, when they keep bridle in hand, ready to attack the enemy, or canter off without
coming to close quarters, as circumstances may recommend. After using for nearly ten minutes
a sort of metaphysical jargon, which might, according to Alice's pleasure, have been interpreted
either into gallantry, or the language of serious pretension, and when he supposed her engaged
in fathoming his meaning, he had the mortification to find, by a single and brief question,
that he had been totally unattended to, and that Alice was thinking on anything at the moment
rather than the sense of what he had been saying. She asked him if he could tell what it was
o'clock, and this with an air of real curiosity concerning the lapse of time, which put coquetry
wholly out of the question.

"I will go look at the sundial, Mistress Alice," said the gallant, rising and colouring, through
a sense of the contempt with which he thought himself treated.

"You will do me a pleasure, Master Kerneguy," said Alice, without the least consciousness of
the indignation she had excited.

Master Louis Kerneguy left the room accordingly, not, however, to procure the information required,
but to vent his anger and mortification, and to swear, with more serious purpose than he had
dared to do before, that Alice should rue her insolence. Good-natured as he was, he was still
a prince, unaccustomed to contradiction, far less to contempt, and his self pride felt, for
the moment, wounded to the quick. With a hasty step he plunged into the Chase, only remembering
his own safety so far as to choose the deeper and sequestered avenues, where, walking on with
the speedy and active step, which his recovery from fatigue now permitted him to exercise according
to his wont, he solaced his angry purposes, by devising schemes of revenge on the insolent
country coquette, from which no consideration of hospitality was in future to have weight enough
to save her.

The irritated gallant passed

   "The dial-stone, aged and green,"

without deigning to ask it a single question; nor could it have satisfied his curiosity if
he had, for no sun happened to shine at the moment. He then hastened forward, muffling himself
in his cloak, and assuming a stooping and slouching gait, which diminished his apparent height.
He was soon involved in the deep and dim alleys of the wood, into which he had insensibly plunged
himself, and was traversing it at a great rate, without having any distinct idea in what direction
he was going, when suddenly his course was arrested, first by a loud hello, and then by a summons
to stand, accompanied by what seemed still more startling and extraordinary, the touch of a
cane upon his shoulder, imposed in a good-humoured but somewhat imperious manner.

There were few symptoms of recognition which would have been welcome at this moment; but the
appearance of the person who had thus arrested his course, was least of all that he could have
anticipated as timely or agreeable. When he turned, on receiving the signal, he beheld himself
close to a young man, nearly six feet in height, well made in joint and limb, but the gravity
of whose apparel, although handsome and gentlemanlike, and a sort of precision in his habit,
from the cleanness and stiffness of his band to the unsullied purity of his Spanish-leather
shoes, bespoke a love of order which was foreign to the impoverished and vanquished cavaliers,
and proper to the habits of those of the victorious party, who could afford to dress themselves
handsomely; and whose rule--that is, such as regarded the higher and more respectable classes--enjoined
decency and sobriety of garb and deportment. There was yet another weight against the Prince
in the scale, and one still more characteristic of the inequality in the comparison, under
which he seemed to labour. There was strength in the muscular form of the stranger who had
brought him to this involuntary parley, authority and determination in his brow, a long rapier
on the left, and a poniard or dagger on the right side of his belt, and a pair of pistols stuck
into it, which would have been sufficient to give the unknown the advantage, (Louis Kerneguy
having no weapon but his sword,) even had his personal strength approached nearer than it did
to that of the person by whom he was thus suddenly stopped.

Bitterly regretting the thoughtless fit of passion that brought him into his present situation,
but especially the want of the pistols he had left behind, and which do so much to place bodily
strength and weakness upon an equal footing, Charles yet availed himself of the courage and
presence of mind, in which few of his unfortunate family had for centuries been deficient.
He stood firm and without motion, his cloak still wrapped round the lower part of his face,
to give time for explanation, in case he was mistaken for some other person.

This coolness produced its effect; for the other party said,--with doubt and surprise on his
part, "Joceline Joliffe, is it not?--if I know not Joceline Joliffe, I should at least know
my own cloak."

"I am not Joceline Joliffe, as you may see, sir," said Kerneguy, calmly, drawing himself erect
to show the difference of size, and dropping the cloak from his face and person.

"Indeed!" replied the stranger, in surprise; "then, Sir Unknown, I have to express my regret
at having used my cane in intimating that I wished you to stop. From that dress, which I certainly
recognise for my own, I concluded you must be Joceline, in whose custody I had left my habit
at the Lodge."

"If it had been Joceline, sir," replied the supposed Kerneguy, with perfect composure, "methinks
you should not have struck so hard." The other party was obviously confused by the steady calmness
with which he was encountered. The sense of politeness dictated, in the first place, an apology
for a mistake, when he thought he had been tolerably certain of the person. Master Kerneguy
was not in a situation to be punctilious; he bowed gravely, as indicating his acceptance of
the excuse offered, then turned, and walked, as he conceived, towards the Lodge; though he
had traversed the woods which were cut with various alleys in different directions, too hastily
to be certain of the real course which he wished to pursue.

He was much embarrassed to find that this did not get him rid of the companion whom he had
thus involuntarily acquired. Walked he slow, walked he fast, his friend in the genteel but
puritanic habit, strong in person, and well armed, as we have described him, seemed determined
to keep him company, and, without attempting to join, or enter into conversation, never suffered
him to outstrip his surveillance for more than two or three yards. The Wanderer mended his
pace; but, although he was then, in his youth, as afterwards in his riper age, one of the best
walkers in Britain, the stranger, without advancing his pace to a run, kept fully equal to
him, and his persecution became so close and constant, and inevitable, that the pride and fear
of Charles were both alarmed, and he began to think that, whatever the danger might be of a
single-handed rencontre, he would nevertheless have a better bargain of this tall satellite
if they settled the debate betwixt them in the forest, than if they drew near any place of
habitation, where the man in authority was likely to find friends and concurrents.

Betwixt anxiety, therefore, vexation, and anger, Charles faced suddenly round on his pursuer,
as they reached a small narrow glade, which led to the little meadow over which presided the
King's Oak, the ragged and scathed branches and gigantic trunk of which formed a vista to the
little wild avenue.

"Sir," said he to his pursuer, "you have already been guilty of one piece of impertinence towards
me. You have apologised; and knowing no reason why you should distinguish me as an object of
incivility, I have accepted your excuse without scruple. Is there any thing remains to be settled
betwixt us, which causes you to follow me in this manner? If so, I shall be glad to make it
a subject of explanation or satisfaction, as the case may admit of. I think you can owe me
no malice; for I never saw you before to my knowledge. If you can give any good reason for
asking it, I am willing to render you personal satisfaction. If your purpose is merely impertinent
curiosity, I let you know that I will not suffer myself to be dogged in my private walks by
any one."

"When I recognise my own cloak on another man's shoulders," replied the stranger, dryly, "methinks
I have a natural right to follow and see what becomes of it; for know, sir, though I have been
mistaken as to the wearer, yet I am confident I had as good a right to stretch my cane across
the cloak you are muffled in, as ever had any one to brush his own garments. If, therefore,
we are to be friends, I must ask, for instance, how you came by that cloak, and where you are
going with it? I shall otherwise make bold to stop you, as one who has sufficient commission
to do so."

"Oh, unhappy cloak," thought the Wanderer, "ay, and thrice unhappy the idle fancy that sent
me here with it wrapped around my nose, to pick quarrels and attract observation, when quiet
and secrecy were peculiarly essential to my safety!"

"If you will allow me to guess, sir," continued the stranger, who was no other than Markham
Everard, "I will convince you that you are better known than you think for."

"Now, Heaven forbid!" prayed the party addressed, in silence, but with as much devotion as
ever he applied to a prayer in his life. Yet even in this moment of extreme urgency, his courage
and composure did not fail; and he recollected it was of the utmost importance not to seem
startled, and to answer so as, if possible, to lead the dangerous companion with whom he had
met, to confess the extent of his actual knowledge or suspicions concerning him.

"If you know me, sir," he said, "and are a gentleman, as your appearance promises, you cannot
be at a loss to discover to what accident you must attribute my wearing these clothes, which
you say are yours." "Oh, sir," replied Colonel Everard, his wrath in no sort turned away by
the mildness of the stranger's answer--"we have learned our Ovid's Metamorphoses, and we know
for what purposes young men of quality travel in disguise--we know that even female attire
is resorted to on certain occasions--We have heard of Vertumnus and Pomona."

The Monarch, as he weighed these words, again uttered a devout prayer, that this ill-looking
affair might have no deeper root than the jealousy of some admirer of Alice Lee, promising
to himself, that, devotee as he was to the fair sex, he would make no scruple of renouncing
the fairest of Eve's daughters in order to get out of the present dilemma.

"Sir," he said, "you seem to be a gentleman. I have no objection to tell you, as such, that
I also am of that class."

"Or somewhat higher, perhaps?" said Everard.

"A gentleman," replied Charles, "is a term which comprehends all ranks entitled to armorial
bearings--A duke, a lord, a prince, is no more than a gentleman; and if in misfortune as I
am, he may be glad if that general term of courtesy is allowed him."

"Sir," replied Everard, "I have no purpose to entrap you to any acknowledgment fatal to your
own safety,--nor do I hold it my business to be active in the arrest of private individuals,
whose perverted sense of national duty may have led them into errors, rather to be pitied than
punished by candid men. But if those who have brought civil war and disturbance into their
native country, proceed to carry dishonour and disgrace into the bosom of families--if they
attempt to carry on their private debaucheries to the injury of the hospitable roofs which
afford them refuge from the consequences of their public crimes, do you think, my lord, that
we shall bear it with patience?"

"If it is your purpose to quarrel with me," said the Prince, "speak it out at once like a gentleman.
You have the advantage, no doubt, of arms; but it is not that odds which will induce me to
fly from a single man. If, on the other hand, you are disposed to hear reason, I tell you in
calm words, that I neither suspect the offence to which you allude, nor comprehend why you
give me the title of my Lord."

"You deny, then, being the Lord Wilmot?" said Everard.

"I may do so most safely," said the Prince.

"Perhaps you rather style yourself Earl of Rochester? We heard that the issuing of some such
patent by the King of Scots was a step which your ambition proposed."

"Neither lord nor earl am I, as sure as I have a Christian soul to be saved. My name is"--

"Do not degrade yourself by unnecessary falsehood, my lord; and that to a single man, who,
I promise you, will not invoke public justice to assist his own good sword should he see cause
to use it. Can you look at that ring, and deny that you are Lord Wilmot?"

He handed to the disguised Prince a ring which he took from his purse, and his opponent instantly
knew it for the same he had dropped into Alice's pitcher at the fountain, obeying only, through
imprudently, the gallantry of the moment, in giving a pretty gem to a handsome girl, whom he
had accidentally frightened.

"I know the ring," he said; "it has been in my possession. How it should prove me to be Lord
Wilmot, I cannot conceive; and beg to say, it bears false witness against me."

"You shall see the evidence," answered Everard; and, resuming the ring, he pressed a spring
ingeniously contrived in the collet of the setting, on which the stone flew back, and showed
within it the cipher of Lord Wilmot beautifully engraved in miniature, with a coronet.--"What
say you now, sir?"

"That probabilities are no proofs," said the Prince; "there is nothing here save what may be
easily accounted for. I am the son of a Scottish nobleman, who was mortally wounded and made
prisoner at Worcester fight. When he took leave, and bid me fly, he gave me the few valuables
he possessed, and that among others. I have heard him talk of having changed rings with Lord
Wilmot, on some occasion in Scotland, but I never knew the trick of the gem which you have
shown me."

In this it may be necessary to say, Charles spoke very truly; nor would he have parted with
it in the way he did, had he suspected it would be easily recognised. He proceeded after a
minute's pause:--"Once more, sir--I have told you much that concerns my safety--if you are
generous, you will let me pass, and I may do you on some future day as good service. If you
mean to arrest me, you must do so here, and at your own peril, for I will neither walk farther
your way, nor permit you to dog me on mine. If you let me pass, I will thank you: if not, take
to your weapon."

"Young gentleman," said Colonel Everard, "whether you be actually the gay young nobleman for
whom I took you, you have made me uncertain; but, intimate as you say your family has been
with him, I have little doubt that you are proficient in the school of debauchery, of which
Wilmot and Villiers are professors, and their hopeful Master a graduated student. Your conduct
at Woodstock, where you have rewarded the hospitality of the family by meditating the most
deadly wound to their honour, has proved you too apt a scholar in such an academy. I intended
only to warn you on this subject--it will be your own fault if I add chastisement to admonition."

"Warn me, sir!" said the Prince indignantly, "and chastisement! This is presuming more on my
patience than is consistent with your own safety-- Draw, sir."--So saying, he laid his hand
on his sword.

"My religion," said Everard, "forbids me to be rash in shedding blood--Go home, sir--be wise--consult
the dictates of honour as well as prudence. Respect the honour of the House of Lee, and know
there is one nearly allied to it, by whom your motions will be called to severe account."

"Aha!" said the Prince, with a bitter laugh, "I see the whole matter now--we have our roundheaded
Colonel, our puritan cousin before us--the man of texts and morals, whom Alice Lee laughs at
so heartily. If your religion, sir, prevents you from giving satisfaction, it should prevent
you from offering insult to a person of honour."

The passions of both were now fully up--they drew mutually, and began to fight, the Colonel
relinquishing the advantage he could have obtained by the use of his fire-arms. A thrust of
the arm, or a slip of the foot, might, at the moment, have changed the destinies of Britain,
when the arrival of a third party broke off the combat.

       *       *        *       *        *

CHAPTER THE TWENTY-FIFTH.

  Stay--for the King has thrown his warder down.
    RICHARD II.

The combatants, whom we left engaged at the end of the last chapter, made mutual passes at
each other with apparently equal skill and courage. Charles had been too often in action, and
too long a party as well as a victim to civil war, to find any thing new or surprising in being
obliged to defend himself with his own hands; and Everard had been distinguished, as well for
his personal bravery, as for the other properties of a commander. But the arrival of a third
party prevented the tragic conclusion of a combat, in which the success of either party must
have given him much cause for regretting his victory.

It was the old knight himself, who arrived, mounted upon a forest pony, for the war and sequestration
had left him no steed of a more dignified description. He thrust himself between the combatants,
and commanded them on their lives to hold. So soon as a glance from one to the other had ascertained
to him whom he had to deal with, he demanded, "Whether the devils of Woodstock, whom folk talked
about, had got possession of them both, that they were tilting at each other within the verge
of the royal liberties? Let me tell both of you," he said, "that while old Henry Lee is at
Woodstock, the immunities of the Park shall be maintained as much as if the King were still
on the throne. None shall fight duellos here, excepting the stags in their season. Put up,
both of you, or I shall lug out as thirdsman, and prove perhaps the worst devil of the three!--As
Will says--

  'I'll so maul you and your toasting-irons,
  That you shall think the devil has come from hell.'"

The combatants desisted from their encounter, but stood looking at each other sullenly, as
men do in such a situation, each unwilling to seem to desire peace more than the other, and
averse therefore to be the first to sheathe his sword.

"Return your weapons, gentlemen, upon the spot," said the knight yet more peremptorily, "one
and both of you, or you will have something to do with me, I promise you. You may be thankful
times are changed. I have known them such, that your insolence might have cost each of you
your right hand, if not redeemed with a round sum of money. Nephew, if you do not mean to alienate
me for ever, I command you to put up.--Master Kerneguy, you are my guest. I request of you
not to do me the insult of remaining with your sword drawn, where it is my duty to see peace
observed."

"I obey you, Sir Henry," said the King, sheathing his rapier--"I hardly indeed know wherefore
I was assaulted by this gentleman. I assure you, none respects the King's person or privileges
more than myself--though the devotion is somewhat out of fashion."

"We may find a place to meet, sir," replied Everard, "where neither the royal person nor privileges
can be offended."

"Faith, very hardly, sir," said Charles, unable to suppress the rising jest--"I mean, the King
has so few followers, that the loss of the least of them might be some small damage to him;
but, risking all that, I will meet you wherever there is fair field for a poor cavalier to
get off in safety, if he has the luck in fight."

Sir Henry Lee's first idea had been fixed upon the insult offered to the royal demesne; he
now began to turn them towards the safety of his kinsman, and of the young royalist, as he
deemed him. "Gentlemen," he said, "I must insist on this business being put to a final end.
Nephew Markham, is this your return for my condescension in coming back to Woodstock on your
warrant, that you should take an opportunity to cut the throat of my guest?"

"If you knew his purpose as well as I do,"--said Markham, and then paused, conscious that he
might only incense his uncle without convincing him, as any thing he might say of Kerneguy's
addresses to Alice was likely to be imputed to his own jealous suspicions--he looked on the
ground, therefore, and was silent.

"And you, Master Kerneguy," said Sir Henry, "can you give me any reason why you seek to take
the life of this young man, in whom, though unhappily forgetful of his loyalty and duty, I
must yet take some interest, as my nephew by affinity?"

"I was not aware the gentleman enjoyed that honour, which certainly would have protected him
from my sword," answered Kerneguy. "But the quarrel is his; nor can I tell any reason why he
fixed it upon me, unless it were the difference of our political opinions."

"You know the contrary," said Everard; "you know that I told you you were safe from me as a
fugitive royalist--and your last words showed you were at no loss to guess my connexion with
Sir Henry. That, indeed, is of little consequence. I should debase myself did I use the relationship
as a means of protection from you, or any one."

As they thus disputed, neither choosing to approach the real cause of quarrel, Sir Henry looked
from one to the other, with a peace-making conscience, exclaiming--

  "'Why, what an intricate impeach is this?
  I think you both have drunk of Circe's cup.'

"Come, my young masters, allow an old man to mediate between you. I am not shortsighted in
such matters--The mother of mischief is no bigger than a gnat's wing; and I have known fifty
instances in my own day, when, as Will says--

  'Gallants have been confronted hardily,
  In single opposition, hand to hand.'

in which, after the field was fought, no one could remember the cause of quarrel.--Tush! a
small thing will do it--the taking of the wall--or the gentle rub of the shoulder in passing
each other, or a hasty word, or a misconceived gesture--Come, forget your cause of quarrel,
be what it will--you have had your breathing, and though you put up your rapiers unbloodied,
that was no default of yours, but by command of your elder, and one who had right to use authority.
In Malta, where the duello is punctiliously well understood, the persons engaged in a single
combat are bound to halt on the command of a knight, or priest, or lady, and the quarrel so
interrupted is held as honourably terminated, and may not be revived.--Nephew, it is, I think,
impossible that you can nourish spleen against this young gentleman for having fought for his
king. Hear my honest proposal, Markham--You know I bear no malice, though I have some reason
to be offended with you--Give the young man your hand in friendship, and we will back to the
Lodge, all three together, and drink a cup of sack in token of reconciliation."

Markham Everard found himself unable to resist this approach towards kindness on his uncle's
part. He suspected, indeed, what was partly the truth, that it was not entirely from reviving
good-will, but also, that his uncle thought, by such attention, to secure his neutrality at
least, if not his assistance, for the safety of the fugitive royalist. He was sensible that
he was placed in an awkward predicament; and that he might incur the suspicions of his own
party, for holding intercourse even with a near relation, who harboured such guests. But, on
the other hand, he thought his services to the Commonwealth had been of sufficient importance
to outweigh whatever envy might urge on that topic. Indeed, although the Civil War had divided
families much, and in many various ways, yet when it seemed ended by the triumph of the republicans,
the rage of political hatred began to relent, and the ancient ties of kindred and friendship
regained at least a part of their former influence. Many reunions were formed; and those who,
like Everard, adhered to the conquering party, often exerted themselves for the protection
of their deserted relatives.

As these things rushed through his mind, accompanied with the prospect of a renewed intercourse
with Alice Lee, by means of which he might be at hand to protect her against every chance,
either of injury or insult, he held out his hand to the supposed Scottish page, saying at the
same time, "That, for his part, he was very ready to forget the cause of quarrel, or rather,
to consider it as arising out of a misapprehension, and to offer Master Kerneguy such friendship
as might exist between honourable men, who had embraced different sides in politics."

Unable to overcome the feeling of personal dignity, which prudence recommended him to forget,
Louis Kerneguy in return bowed low, but without accepting Everard's proffered hand.

"He had no occasion," he said, "to make any exertions to forget the cause of quarrel, for he
had never been able to comprehend it; but as he had not shunned the gentleman's resentment,
so he was now willing to embrace and return any degree of his favour, with which he might be
pleased to honour him."

Everard withdrew his hand with a smile, and bowed in return to the salutation of the page,
whose stiff reception of his advances he imputed to the proud pettish disposition of a Scotch
boy, trained up in extravagant ideas of family consequence and personal importance, which his
acquaintance with the world had not yet been sufficient to dispel.

Sir Henry Lee, delighted with the termination of the quarrel, which he supposed to be in deep
deference to his own authority, and not displeased with the opportunity of renewing some acquaintance
with his nephew, who had, notwithstanding his political demerits, a warmer interest in his
affections than he was, perhaps, himself aware of, said, in a tone of consolation, "Never be
mortified, young gentlemen. I protest it went to my heart to part you, when I saw you stretching
yourselves so handsomely, and in fair love of honour, without any malicious or blood-thirsty
thoughts. I promise you, had it not been for my duty as Ranger here, and sworn to the office,
I would rather have been your umpire than your hinderance.--But a finished quarrel is a forgotten
quarrel; and your tilting should have no further consequence excepting the appetite it may
have given you."

So saying, he urged forward his pony, and moved in triumph towards the Lodge by the nearest
alley. His feet almost touching the ground, the ball of his toe just resting in the stirrup,--the
forepart of the thigh brought round to the saddle,--the heels turned outwards, and sunk as
much as possible,--his body precisely erect,--the reins properly and systematically divided
in his left hand, his right holding a riding-rod diagonally pointed towards the horse's left
ear,--he seemed a champion of the manege, fit to have reined Bucephalus himself. His youthful
companions, who attended on either hand like equerries, could scarcely suppress a smile at
the completely adjusted and systematic posture of the rider, contrasted with the wild and diminutive
appearance of the pony, with its shaggy coat, and long tail and mane, and its keen eyes sparkling
like red coals from amongst the mass of hair which fell over its small countenance. If the
reader has the Duke of Newcastle's book on horsemanship, (splendida moles!) he may have some
idea of the figure of the good knight, if he can conceive such a figure as one of the cavaliers
there represented, seated, in all the graces of his art, on a Welsh or Exmoor pony, in its
native savage state, without grooming or discipline of any kind; the ridicule being greatly
enhanced by the disproportion of size betwixt the animal and its rider.

Perhaps the knight saw their wonder, for the first words he said after they left the ground
were, "Pixie, though small, is mettlesome, gentlemen," (here he contrived that Pixie should
himself corroborate the assertion, by executing a gambade,)--"he is diminutive, but full of
spirit;--indeed, save that I am somewhat too large for an elfin horseman," (the knight was
upwards of six feet high,) "I should remind myself, when I mount him, of the Fairy King, as
described by Mike Drayton:--

  Himself he on an ear-wig set,
  Yet scarce upon his back could get,
  So oft and high he did curvet,
      Ere he himself did settle.
  He made him stop, and turn, and bound,
  To gallop, and to trot the round.
  He scarce could stand on any ground,
      He was so full of mettle.'"

"My old friend, Pixie," said Everard, stroking the pony's neck, "I am glad that he has survived
all these bustling days--Pixie must be above twenty years old, Sir Henry?"

"Above twenty years, certainly. Yes, nephew Markham, war is a whirlwind in a plantation, which
only spares what is least worth leaving. Old Pixie and his old master have survived many a
tall fellow, and many a great horse--neither of them good for much themselves. Yet, as Will
says, an old man can do somewhat. So Pixie and I still survive."

So saying, he again contrived that Pixie should show some remnants of activity.

"Still survive?" said the young Scot, completing the sentence which the good knight had left
unfinished--"ay, still survive,

  'To witch the world with noble horsemanship.'"

Everard coloured, for he felt the irony; but not so his uncle, whose simple vanity never permitted
him to doubt the sincerity of the compliment.

"Are you advised of that?" he said. "In King James's time, indeed, I have appeared in the tilt-yard,
and there you might have said--

  'You saw young Harry with his beaver up.'

"As to seeing old Harry, why"--Here the knight paused, and looked as a bashful man in labour
of a pun--"As to old Harry--why, you might as well see the devil. You take me, Master Kerneguy--the
devil, you know, is my namesake--ha--ha--ha!--Cousin Everard, I hope your precision is not
startled by an innocent jest?"

He was so delighted with the applause of both his companions, that he recited the whole of
the celebrated passage referred to, and concluded with defying the present age, bundle all
its wits, Donne, Cowley, Waller, and the rest of them together, to produce a poet of a tenth
part of the genius of old Will.

"Why, we are said to have one of his descendants among us--Sir William D'Avenant," said Louis
Kerneguy; "and many think him as clever a fellow."

"What!" exclaimed Sir Henry--"Will D'Avenant, whom I knew in the North, an officer under Newcastle,
when the Marquis lay before Hull?--why, he was an honest cavalier, and wrote good doggrel enough;
but how came he a-kin to Will Shakspeare, I trow?"

"Why," replied the young Scot, "by the surer side of the house, and after the old fashion,
if D'Avenant speaks truth. It seems that his mother was a good-looking, laughing, buxom mistress
of an inn between Stratford and London, at which Will Shakspeare often quartered as he went
down to his native town; and that out of friendship and gossipred, as we say in Scotland, Will
Shakspeare became godfather to Will D'Avenant; and not contented with this spiritual affinity,
the younger Will is for establishing some claim to a natural one, alleging that his mother
was a great admirer of wit, and there were no bounds to her complaisance for men of genius."

"Out upon the hound!" said Colonel Everard; "would he purchase the reputation of descending
from poet, or from prince, at the expense of his mother's good fame?--his nose ought to be slit."

"That would be difficult," answered the disguised Prince, recollecting the peculiarity of the
bard's countenance. [Footnote: D'Avenant actually wanted the nose, the foundation of many a
jest of the day.]

"Will D'Avenant the son of Will Shakspeare?" said the knight, who had not yet recovered his
surprise at the enormity of the pretension; "why, it reminds me of a verse in the Puppet-show
of Phaeton, where the hero complains to his mother--

  'Besides, by all the village boys I am sham'd,
  You the Sun's son, you rascal, you be d--d!'

"I never heard such unblushing assurance in my life!--Will D'Avenant the son of the brightest
and best poet that ever was, is, or will be?--But I crave your pardon, nephew--You, I believe,
love no stage plays."

"Nay, I am not altogether so precise as you would make me, uncle. I have loved them perhaps
too well in my time, and now I condemn them not altogether, or in gross, though I approve not
their excesses and extravagances.--I cannot, even in Shakspeare, but see many things both scandalous
to decency and prejudicial to good manners--many things which tend to ridicule virtue, or to
recommend vice,--at least to mitigate the hideousness of its features. I cannot think these
fine poems are an useful study, and especially for the youth of either sex, in which bloodshed
is pointed out as the chief occupation of the men, and intrigue as the sole employment of the
women."

In making these observations, Everard was simple enough to think that he was only giving his
uncle an opportunity of defending a favourite opinion, without offending him by a contradiction,
which was so limited and mitigated. But here, as on other occasions, he forgot how obstinate
his uncle was in his views, whether of religion, policy, or taste, and that it would be as
easy to convert him to the Presbyterian form of government, or engage him to take the abjuration
oath, as to shake his belief in Shakspeare. There was another peculiarity in the good knight's
mode of arguing, which Everard, being himself of a plain and downright character, and one whose
religious tenets were in some degree unfavourable to the suppressions and simulations often
used in society, could never perfectly understand. Sir Henry, sensible of his natural heat
of temper, was wont scrupulously to guard against it, and would for some time, when in fact
much offended, conduct a debate with all the external appearance of composure, till the violence
of his feelings would rise so high as to overcome and bear away the artificial barriers opposed
to it, and rush down upon the adversary with accumulating wrath. It thus frequently happened,
that, like a wily old general, he retreated in the face of his disputant in good order and
by degrees, with so moderate a degree of resistance, as to draw on his antagonist's pursuit
to the spot, where, at length, making a sudden and unexpected attack, with horse, foot, and
artillery at once, he seldom failed to confound the enemy, though he might not overthrow him.

It was on this principle, therefore, that, hearing Everard's last observation, he disguised
his angry feelings, and answered, with a tone where politeness was called in to keep guard
upon passion, "That undoubtedly the Presbyterian gentry had given, through the whole of these
unhappy times, such proofs of an humble, unaspiring, and unambitious desire of the public good,
as entitled them to general credit for the sincerity of those very strong scruples which they
entertained against works, in which the noblest, sentiments of religion and virtue,--sentiments
which might convert hardened sinners, and be placed with propriety in the mouths of dying saints
and martyrs,-- happened, from the rudeness and coarse taste of the times, to be mixed with
some broad jests, and similar matter, which lay not much in the way, excepting of those who
painfully sought such stuff out, that they might use it in vilifying what was in itself deserving
of the highest applause. But what he wished especially to know from his nephew was, whether
any of those gifted men, who had expelled the learned scholars and deep divines of the Church
of England from the pulpit, and now flourished in their stead, received any inspiration from
the muses, (if he might use so profane a term without offence to Colonel Everard,) or whether
they were not as sottishly and brutally averse from elegant letters, as they were from humanity
and common sense?"

Colonel Everard might have guessed, by the ironical tone in which this speech was delivered,
what storm was mustering within his uncle's bosom--nay, he might have conjectured the state
of the old knight's feelings from his emphasis on the word Colonel, by which epithet, as that
which most connected his nephew with the party he hated, he never distinguished Everard, unless
when his wrath was rising; while, on the contrary, when disposed to be on good terms with him,
he usually called him Kinsman, or Nephew Markham. Indeed, it was under a partial sense that
this was the case, and in the hope to see his cousin Alice, that the Colonel forbore making
any answer to the harangue of his uncle, which had concluded just as the old knight had alighted
at the door of the Lodge, and was entering the hall, followed by his two attendants.

Phoebe at the same time made her appearance in the hall, and received orders to bring some
"beverage" for the gentlemen. The Hebe of Woodstock failed not to recognise and welcome Everard
by an almost imperceptible curtsy; but she did not serve her interest, as she designed, when
she asked the knight, as a question of course, whether he commanded the attendance of Mistress
Alice. A stern No, was the decided reply; and the ill-timed interference seemed to increase
his previous irritation against Everard for his depreciation of Shakspeare. "I would insist,"
said Sir Henry, resuming the obnoxious subject, "were it fit for a poor disbanded cavalier
to use such a phrase towards a commander of the conquering army,--upon, knowing whether the
convulsion which has sent us saints and prophets without end, has not also afforded us a poet
with enough both of gifts and grace to outshine poor old Will, the oracle and idol of us blinded
and carnal cavaliers."

"Surely, sir," replied Colonel Everard; "I know verses written by a friend of the Commonwealth,
and those, too, of a dramatic character, which, weighed in an impartial scale, might equal
even the poetry of Shakspeare, and which are free from the fustian and indelicacy with which
that great bard was sometimes content to feed the coarse appetites of his barbarous audience."

"Indeed!" said the knight, keeping down his wrath with difficulty. "I should like to be acquainted
with this master-piece of poetry!--May we ask the name of this distinguished person?"

"It must be Vicars, or Withers, at least," said the feigned page.

"No, sir," replied Everard, "nor Drummond of Hawthornden, nor Lord Stirling neither. And yet
the verses will vindicate what I say, if you will make allowance for indifferent recitation,
for I am better accustomed to speak to a battalion than to those who love the muses. The speaker
is a lady benighted, who, having lost her way in a pathless forest, at first expresses herself
agitated by the supernatural fears to which her situation gave rise."

"A play, too, and written by a roundhead author!" said Sir Henry in surprise.

"A dramatic production at least," replied his nephew; and began to recite simply, but with
feeling, the lines now so well known, but which had then obtained no celebrity, the fame of
the author resting upon the basis rather of his polemical and political publications, than
on the poetry doomed in after days to support the eternal structure of his immortality.

"My own opinion, nephew Markham, my own opinion," said Sir Henry, with a
burst of admiration; "better expressed, but just what I said when the
scoundrelly roundheads pretended to see ghosts at Woodstock--Go on, I
prithee."
  Turn forth her silver lining on the night?'"

"The rest has escaped me," said the reciter; "and I marvel I have been able to remember so much."

Sir Henry Lee, who had expected some effusion very different from those classical and beautiful
lines, soon changed the scornful expression of his countenance, relaxed his contorted upper
lip, and, stroking down his beard with his left hand, rested the forefinger of the right upon
his eyebrow, in sign of profound attention. After Everard had ceased speaking, the old man
signed as at the end of a strain of sweet music. He then spoke in a gentler manner than formerly.

"Cousin Markham," he said, "these verses flow sweetly, and sound in my ears like the well-touched
warbling of a lute. But thou knowest I am somewhat slow of apprehending the full meaning of
that which I hear for the first time. Repeat me these verses again, slowly and deliberately;
for I always love to hear poetry twice, the first time for sound, and the latter time for sense."

Thus encouraged, Everard recited again the lines with more hardihood and better effect; the
knight distinctly understanding, and from his looks and motions, highly applauding them.

"Yes!" he broke out, when Everard was again silent--"Yes, I do call that poetry--though it
were even written by a Presbyterian, or an Anabaptist either. Ay, there were good and righteous
people to be found even amongst the offending towns which were destroyed by fire. And certainly
I have heard, though with little credence (begging your pardon, cousin. Everard,) that there
are men among you who have seen the error of their ways in rebelling against the best and kindest
of masters, and bringing it to that pass that he was murdered by a gang yet fiercer than themselves.
Ay, doubtless, the gentleness of spirit, and the purity of mind, which dictated those beautiful
lines, has long ago taught a man so amiable to say, I have sinned, I have sinned. Yes, I doubt
not so sweet a harp has been broken, even in remorse, for the crimes he was witness to; and
now he sits drooping for the shame and sorrow of England,--all his noble rhymes, as Will says,

  'Like sweet bells jangled out of tune and harsh.'

Dost thou not think so, Master Kerneguy?"

"Not I, Sir Henry," answered the page, somewhat maliciously.

"What, dost not believe the author of these lines must needs be of the better file, and leaning
to our persuasion?"

"I think, Sir Henry, that the poetry qualifies the author to write a play on the subject of
Dame Potiphar and her recusant lover; and as for his calling--that last metaphor of the cloud
in a black coat or cloak, with silver lining, would have dubbed him a tailor with me, only
that I happen to know that he is a schoolmaster by profession, and by political opinions qualified
to be Poet Laureate to Cromwell; for what Colonel Everard has repeated with such unction, is
the production of no less celebrated a person than John Milton."

"John Milton!" exclaimed Sir Henry in astonishment--"What! John Milton, the blasphemous and
bloody-minded author of the Defensio Populi Anglicani!--the advocate of the infernal High Court
of Fiends; the creature and parasite of that grand impostor, that loathsome hypocrite, that
detestable monster, that prodigy of the universe, that disgrace of mankind, that landscape
of iniquity, that sink of sin, and that compendium of baseness, Oliver Cromwell!"

"Even the same John Milton," answered Charles; "schoolmaster to little boys, and tailor to
the clouds, which he furnishes with suits of black, lined with silver, at no other expense
than that of common sense."

"Markham Everard," said the old knight, "I will never forgive thee-- never, never. Thou hast
made me speak words of praise respecting one whose offal should fatten the region-kites. Speak
not to me, sir, but begone! Am I, your kinsman and benefactor, a fit person to be juggled out
of my commendation and eulogy, and brought to bedaub such a whitened sepulchre as the sophist
Milton?"

"I profess," said Everard, "this is hard measure, Sir Henry. You pressed me--you defied me,
to produce poetry as good as Shakspeare's. I only thought of the verses, not of the politics
of Milton."

"Oh yes, sir," replied Sir Henry; "we well know your power of making distinctions; you could
make war against the King's prerogative, without having the least design against his person.
Oh Heaven forbid! But Heaven will hear and judge you. Set down the beverage, Phoebe"--(this
was added by way of parenthesis to Phoebe, who entered with refreshment)--"Colonel Everard
is not thirsty--You have wiped your mouths, and said you have done no evil. But though you
have deceived man, yet God you cannot deceive. And you shall wipe no lips in Woodstock, either
after meat or drink, I promise you."

Charged thus at once with the faults imputed to his whole religious sect and political party,
Everard felt too late of what imprudence he had been guilty in giving the opening, by disputing
his uncle's taste in dramatic poetry. He endeavoured to explain--to apologise.

"I mistook your purpose, honoured sir, and thought you really desired to know something of
our literature; and in repeating what you deemed not unworthy your hearing, I profess I thought
I was doing you pleasure, instead of stirring your indignation."

"O ay!" returned the knight, with unmitigated rigour of resentment-- "profess--profess--Ay,
that is the new phrase of asseveration, instead of the profane adjuration of courtiers and
cavaliers--Oh, sir, profess less and practise more--and so good day to you. Master Kerneguy,
you will find beverage in my apartment."

While Phoebe stood gaping in admiration at the sudden quarrel which had arisen, Colonel Everard's
vexation and resentment was not a little increased by the nonchalance of the young Scotsman,
who, with his hands thrust into his pockets, (with a courtly affectation of the time,) had
thrown himself into one of the antique chairs, and, though habitually too polite to laugh aloud,
and possessing that art of internal laughter by which men of the world learn to indulge their
mirth without incurring quarrels, or giving direct offence, was at no particular pains to conceal
that he was exceedingly amused by the result of the Colonel's visit to Woodstock. Colonel Everard's
patience, however, had reached bounds which it was very likely to surpass; for, though differing
widely in politics, there was a resemblance betwixt the temper of the uncle and nephew.

"Damnation" exclaimed the Colonel, in a tone which became a puritan as little as did the exclamation
itself.

"Amen!" said Louis Kerneguy, but in a tone so soft and gentle, that the ejaculation seemed
rather to escape him than to be designedly uttered. "Sir!" said Everard, striding towards him
in that sort of humour, when a man, full of resentment, would not unwillingly find an object
on which to discharge it.

"Plait-il?" said the page, in the most equable tone, looking up in his face with the most unconscious
innocence.

"I wish to know, sir," retorted Everard, "the meaning of that which you said just now?"

"Only a pouring out of the spirit, worthy sir," returned Kerneguy--"a small skiff dispatched
to Heaven on my own account, to keep company with your holy petition just now expressed."

"Sir, I have known a merry gentleman's bones broke for such a smile as you wear just now,"
replied Everard.

"There, look you now" answered the malicious page, who could not weigh even the thoughts of
his safety against the enjoyment of his jest--"If you had stuck to your professions, worthy
sir, you must have choked by this time; but your round execration bolted like a cork from a
bottle of cider, and now allows your wrath to come foaming out after it, in the honest unbaptized
language of common ruffians."

"For Heaven's sake, Master Girnegy," said Phoebe, "forbear giving the Colonel these bitter
words! And do you, good Colonel Markham, scorn to take offence at his hands--he is but a boy."

"If the Colonel or you choose, Mistress Phoebe, you shall find me a man--I think the gentleman
can say something to the purpose already.-- Probably he may recommend to you the part of the
Lady in Comus; and I only hope his own admiration of John Milton will not induce him to undertake
the part of Samson Agonistes, and blow up this old house with execration, or pull it down in
wrath about our ears."

"Young man," said the Colonel, still in towering passion, "if you respect my principles for
nothing else, be grateful to the protection which, but for them, you would not easily attain."

"Nay, then," said the attendant, "I must fetch those who have more influence with you than
I have," and away tripped Phoebe; while Kerneguy answered Everard in the same provoking tone
of calm indifference,-- "Before you menace me with a thing so formidable as your resentment,
you ought to be certain whether I may not be compelled by circumstances to deny you the opportunity
you seem to point at."

At this moment Alice, summoned no doubt by her attendant, entered the hall hastily.

"Master Kerneguy," she said, "my father requests to see you in Victor Lee's apartment."

Kerneguy arose and bowed, but seemed determined to remain till Everard's departure, so as to
prevent any explanation betwixt the cousins. "Markham," said Alice, hurriedly--"Cousin Everard--I
have but a moment to remain here--for God's sake, do you instantly begone!--be cautious and
patient--but do not tarry here--my father is fearfully incensed."

"I have had my uncle's word for that, madam," replied Everard, "as well as his injunction to
depart, which I will obey without delay. I was not aware that you would have seconded so harsh
an order quite so willingly; but I go, madam, sensible I leave those behind whose company is
more agreeable."

"Unjust--ungenerous--ungrateful!" said Alice; but fearful her words might reach ears for which
they were not designed, she spoke them in a voice so feeble, that her cousin, for whom they
were intended, lost the consolation they were calculated to convey.

He bowed coldly to Alice, as taking leave, and said, with an air of that constrained courtesy
which sometimes covers, among men of condition, the most deadly hatred, "I believe, Master
Kerneguy, that I must make it convenient at present to suppress my own peculiar opinions on
the matter which we have hinted at in our conversation, in which case I will send a gentleman,
who, I hope, may be able to conquer yours."

The supposed Scotsman made him a stately, and at the same time a condescending bow, said he
should expect the honour of his commands, offered his hand to Mistress Alice, to conduct her
back to her father's apartment, and took a triumphant leave of his rival.

Everard, on the other hand, stung beyond his patience, and, from the grace and composed assurance
of the youth's carriage, still conceiving him to be either Wilmot, or some of his compeers
in rank and profligacy, returned to the town of Woodstock, determined not to be outbearded,
even though he should seek redress by means which his principles forbade him to consider as
justifiable.

       *       *        *       *        *

CHAPTER THE TWENTY-SIXTH.

       Boundless intemperance
  In nature is a tyranny--it hath been
  The untimely emptying of many a throne,
  And fall of many kings.
   MACBETH.

While Colonel Everard retreated in high indignation from the little refection, which Sir Henry
Lee had in his good-humour offered, and withdrawn under the circumstances of provocation which
we have detailed, the good old knight, scarce recovered from his fit of passion, partook of
it with his daughter and guest, and shortly after, recollecting some silvan task, (for, though
to little efficient purpose, he still regularly attended to his duties as Ranger,) he called
Bevis, and went out, leaving the two young people together.

"Now," said the amorous Prince to himself, "that Alice is left without her lion, it remains
to see whether she is herself of a tigress breed.-- So, Sir Bevis has left his charge," he
said loud; "I thought the knights of old, those stern guardians of which he is so fit a representative,
were more rigorous in maintaining a vigilant guard."

"Bevis," said Alice, "knows that his attendance on me is totally needless; and, moreover, he
has other duties to perform, which every true knight prefers to dangling the whole morning
by a lady's sleeve."

"You speak treason against all true affection," said the gallant; "a lady's lightest wish should
to a true knight be more binding than aught excepting the summons of his sovereign. I wish,
Mistress Alice, you would but intimate your slightest desire to me, and you should see how
I have practised obedience."

"You never brought me word what o'clock it was this morning," replied the young lady, "and
there I sate questioning of the wings of Time, when I should have remembered that gentlemen's
gallantry can be quite as fugitive as Time himself. How do you know what your disobedience
may have cost me and others? Pudding and pasty may have been burned to a cinder, for, sir,
I practise the old domestic rule of visiting the kitchen; or I may have missed prayers, or
I may have been too late for an appointment, simply by the negligence of Master Louis Kerneguy
failing to let me know the hour of the day."

"O," replied Kerneguy, "I am one of those lovers who cannot endure absence--I must be eternally
at the feet of my fair enemy--such, I think, is the title with which romances teach us to grace
the fair and cruel to whom we devote our hearts and lives.--Speak for me, good lute," he added,
taking up the instrument, "and show whether I know not my duty."

He sung, but with more taste than execution, the air of a French rondelai, to which some of
the wits or sonnetteers, in his gay and roving train, had adapted English verses.

  An hour with thee!--When earliest day
  Dapples with gold the eastern grey,
  Oh, what, can frame my mind to bear
  The toil and turmoil, cark and care.
  New griefs, which coming hours unfold,
  And sad remembrance of the old?--
  One hour with thee!

  One hour with thee!--When burning June
  Waves his red flag at pitch of noon;
  What shall repay the faithful swain,
  His labour on the sultry plain,
  And more than cave or sheltering bough,
  Cool feverish blood, and throbbing brow?--
  One hour with thee!

  One hour with thee!--When sun is set,
  O, what can teach me to forget
  The thankless labours of the day;
  The hopes, the wishes, flung away:
  The increasing wants, and lessening gains,
  The master's pride, who scorns my pains?--
  One hour with thee!

"Truly, there is another verse," said the songster; "but I sing it not to you, Mistress Alice,
because some of the prudes of the court liked it not." "I thank you, Master Louis," answered
the young lady, "both for your discretion in singing what has given me pleasure, and in forbearing
what might offend me. Though a country girl, I pretend to be so far of the court mode, as to
receive nothing which does not pass current among the better class there."

"I would," answered Louis, "that you were so well confirmed in their creed, as to let all pass
with you, to which court ladies would give currency."

"And what would be the consequence?" said Alice, with perfect composure.

"In that case," said Louis, embarrassed like a general who finds that his preparations for
attack do not seem to strike either fear or confusion into the enemy--"in that case you would
forgive me, fair Alice, if I spoke to you in a warmer language than that of mere gallantry--if
I told you how much my heart was interested in what you consider as idle jesting--if I seriously
owned it was in your power to make me the happiest or the most miserable of human beings."

"Master Kerneguy," said Alice, with the same unshaken nonchalance, "let us understand each
other. I am little acquainted with high-bred manners, and I am unwilling, I tell you plainly,
to be accounted a silly country girl, who, either from ignorance or conceit, is startled at
every word of gallantry addressed to her by a young man, who, for the present, has nothing
better to do than coin and circulate such false compliments. But I must not let this fear of
seeming rustic and awkwardly timorous carry me too far; and being ignorant of the exact limits,
I will take care to stop within them."

"I trust, madam," said Kerneguy, "that however severely you may be disposed to judge of me,
your justice will not punish me too severely for an offence, of which your charms are alone
the occasion?"

"Hear me out, sir, if you please," resumed Alice. "I have listened to you when you spoke en
berger--nay, my complaisance has been so great, as to answer you en bergere--for I do not think
any thing except ridicule can come of dialogues between Lindor and Jeanneton; and the principal
fault of the style is its extreme and tiresome silliness and affectation. But when you begin
to kneel, offer to take my hand, and speak with a more serious tone, I must remind you of our
real characters. I am the daughter of Sir Henry Lee, sir; you are, or profess to be, Master
Louis Kerneguy, my brother's page, and a fugitive for shelter under my father's roof, who incurs
danger by the harbour he affords you, and whose household, therefore, ought not to be disturbed
by your unpleasing importunities."

"I would to Heaven, fair Alice," said the King, "that your objections to the suit which I am
urging, not in jest, but most seriously, as that on which my happiness depends, rested only
on the low and precarious station of Louis Kerneguy!--Alice, thou hast the soul of thy family,
and must needs love honour. I am no more the needy Scottish page, whom I have, for my own purposes,
personated, than I am the awkward lout, whose manners I adopted on the first night of our acquaintance.
This hand, poor as I seem, can confer a coronet."

"Keep it," said Alice, "for some more ambitious damsel, my lord,--for such I conclude is your
title, if this romance be true,--I would not accept your hand, could you confer a duchy."

"In one sense, lovely Alice, you have neither overrated my power nor my affection. It is your
King--it is Charles Stewart who speaks to you!--he can confer duchies, and if beauty can merit
them, it is that of Alice Lee. Nay, nay--rise--do not kneel--it is for your sovereign to kneel
to thee, Alice, to whom he is a thousand times more devoted than the wanderer Louis dared venture
to profess himself. My Alice has, I know, been trained up in those principles of love and obedience
to her sovereign, that she cannot, in conscience or in mercy, inflict on him such a wound as
would be implied in the rejection of his suit."

In spite of all Charles's attempts to prevent her, Alice had persevered in kneeling on one
knee, until she had touched with her lip the hand with which he attempted to raise her. But
this salutation ended, she stood upright, with her arms folded on her bosom--her looks humble,
but composed, keen, and watchful, and so possessed of herself, so little flattered by the communication
which the King had supposed would have been overpowering, that he scarce knew in what terms
next to urge his solicitation.

"Thou art silent--thou art silent," he said, "my pretty Alice. Has the King no more influence
with thee than the poor Scottish page?"

"In one sense, every influence," said Alice; "for he commands my best thoughts, my best wishes,
my earnest prayers, my devoted loyalty, which, as the men of the House of Lee have been ever
ready to testify with the sword, so are the women bound to seal, if necessary, with their blood.
But beyond the duties of a true and devoted subject, the King is even less to Alice Lee than
poor Louis Kerneguy. The Page could have tendered an honourable union--the Monarch can but
offer a contaminated coronet."

"You mistake, Alice--you mistake," said the King, eagerly. "Sit down and let me speak to you--sit
down--What is't you fear?"

"I fear nothing, my liege," answered Alice. "What can I fear from the King of Britain--I, the
daughter of his loyal subject, and under my father's roof? But I remember the distance betwixt
us; and though I might trifle and jest with mine equal, to my King I must only appear in the
dutiful posture of a subject, unless where his safety may seem to require that I do not acknowledge
his dignity."

Charles, though young, being no novice in such scenes, was surprised to encounter resistance
of a kind which had not been opposed to him in similar pursuits, even in cases where he had
been unsuccessful. There was neither anger, nor injured pride, nor disorder, nor disdain, real
or affected, in the manners and conduct of Alice. She stood, as it seemed, calmly prepared
to argue on the subject, which is generally decided by passion--showed no inclination to escape
from the apartment, but appeared determined to hear with patience the suit of the lover--while
her countenance and manner intimated that she had this complaisance only in deference to the
commands of the King.

"She is ambitious," thought Charles; "it is by dazzling her love of glory, not by mere passionate
entreaties, that I must hope to be successful.--I pray you be seated, my fair Alice," he said;
"the lover entreats--the King commands you."

"The King," said Alice, "may permit the relaxation of the ceremonies due to royalty, but he
cannot abrogate the subject's duty, even by express command. I stand here while it is your
Majesty's pleasure to address--a patient listener, as in duty bound."

"Know then, simple girl," said the King, "that in accepting my proffered affection and protection,
you break through no law either of virtue or morality. Those who are born to royalty are deprived
of many of the comforts of private life--chiefly that which is, perhaps, the dearest and most
precious, the power of choosing their own mates for life. Their formal weddings are guided
upon principles of political expedience only, and those to whom they are wedded are frequently,
in temper, person, and disposition, the most unlikely to make them happy. Society has commiseration,
therefore, towards us, and binds our unwilling and often unhappy wedlocks with chains of a
lighter and more easy character than those which fetter other men, whose marriage ties, as
more voluntarily assumed, ought, in proportion, to be more strictly binding. And therefore,
ever since the time that old Henry built these walls, priests and prelates, as well as nobles
and statesmen, have been accustomed to see a fair Rosamond rule the heart of an affectionate
monarch, and console him for the few hours of constraint and state which he must bestow upon
some angry and jealous Eleanor. To such a connection the world attaches no blame; they rush
to the festival to admire the beauty of the lovely Esther, while the imperious Vashti is left
to queen it in solitude; they throng the palace to ask her protection, whose influence is more
in the state an hundred times than that of the proud consort; her offspring rank with the nobles
of the land, and vindicate by their courage, like the celebrated Longsword, Earl of Salisbury,
their descent from royalty and from love. From such connections our richest ranks of nobles
are recruited; and the mother lives, in the greatness of her posterity honoured and blest,
as she died lamented and wept in the arms of love and friendship."

"Did Rosamond so die, my lord?" said Alice. "Our records say she was poisoned by the injured
Queen--poisoned, without time allowed to call to God for the pardon of her many faults. Did
her memory so live? I have heard that, when the Bishop purified the church at Godstowe, her
monument was broken open by his orders, and her bones thrown out into unconsecrated ground."

"Those were rude old days, sweet Alice," answered Charles; "queens are not now so jealous,
nor bishops so rigorous. And know, besides, that in the lands to which I would lead the loveliest
of her sex, other laws obtain, which remove from such ties even the slightest show of scandal.
There is a mode of matrimony, which, fulfilling all the rites of the Church, leaves no stain
on the conscience; yet investing the bride with none of the privileges peculiar to her husband's
condition, infringes not upon the duties which the King owes to his subjects. So that Alice
Lee may, in all respects, become the real and lawful wife of Charles Stewart, except that their
private union gives her no title to be Queen of England."

"My ambition," said Alice, "will be sufficiently gratified to see Charles king, without aiming
to share either his dignity in public, or his wealth and regal luxury in private."

"I understand thee, Alice," said the King, hurt but not displeased. "You ridicule me, being
a fugitive, for speaking like a king. It is a habit, I admit, which I have learned, and of
which even misfortune cannot cure me. But my case is not so desperate as you may suppose. My
friends are still many in these kingdoms; my allies abroad are bound, by regard to their own
interest, to espouse my cause. I have hopes given me from Spain, from France, and from other
nations; and I have confidence that my father's blood has not been poured forth in vain, nor
is doomed to dry up without due vengeance. My trust is in Him from whom princes derive their
title, and, think what thou wilt of my present condition, I have perfect confidence that I
shall one day sit on the throne of England."

"May God grant it!" said Alice; "and that he may grant it, noble Prince, deign to consider--whether
you now pursue a conduct likely to conciliate his favour. Think of the course you recommend
to a motherless maiden, who has no better defence against your sophistry, than what a sense
of morality, together with the natural feeling of female dignity inspires. Whether the death
of her father, which would be the consequence of her imprudence;--whether the despair of her
brother, whose life has been so often in peril to save that of your Majesty;-- whether the
dishonour of the roof which has sheltered you, will read well in your annals, or are events
likely to propitiate God, whose controversy with your House has been but too visible, or recover
the affections of the people of England, in whose eyes such actions are an abomination, I leave
to your own royal mind to consider."

Charles paused, struck with a turn to the conversation which placed his own interests more
in collision with the gratification of his present passion than he had supposed.

"If your Majesty," said Alice, curtsying deeply, "has no farther commands for my attendance,
may I be permitted to withdraw?"

"Stay yet a little, strange and impracticable girl," said the King; "and answer me but one
question:--Is it the lowness of my present fortunes that makes my suit contemptible?"

"I have nothing to conceal, my liege," she said, "and my answer shall be as plain and direct
as the question you have asked. If I could have been moved to an act of ignominious, insane,
and ungrateful folly, it could only arise from my being blinded by that passion, which I believe
is pleaded as an excuse for folly and for crime much more often than it has a real existence.
I must, in short, have been in love, as it is called--and that might have been--with my equal,
but surely never with my sovereign, whether such only in title, or in possession of his kingdom."

"Yet loyalty was ever the pride, almost the ruling passion, of your family, Alice," said the King.

"And could I reconcile that loyalty," said Alice, "with indulging my sovereign, by permitting
him to prosecute a suit dishonourable to himself as to me? Ought I, as a faithful subject,
to join him in a folly, which might throw yet another stumbling-block in the path to his restoration,
and could only serve to diminish his security, even if he were seated upon his throne?"

"At this rate," said Charles, discontentedly, "I had better have retained my character of the
page, than assumed that of a sovereign, which it seems is still more irreconcilable with my
wishes."

"My candour shall go still farther," said Alice. "I could have felt as little for Louis Kerneguy
as for the heir of Britain; for such love as I have to bestow, (and it is not such as I read
of in romance, or hear poured forth in song,) has been already conferred on another object.
This gives your Majesty pain--I am sorry for it--but the wholesomest medicines are often bitter."

"Yes," answered the King, with some asperity, "and physicians are reasonable enough to expect
their patients to swallow them, as if they were honeycomb. It is true, then, that whispered
tale of the cousin Colonel, and the daughter of the loyal Lee has set her heart upon a rebellious
fanatic?"

"My love was given ere I knew what these words fanatic and rebel meant. I recalled it not,
for I am satisfied, that amidst the great distractions which divide the kingdom, the person
to whom you allude has chosen his part, erroneously, perhaps, but conscientiously--he, therefore,
has still the highest place in my affection and esteem. More he cannot have, and will not ask,
until some happy turn shall reconcile these public differences, and my father be once more
reconciled to him. Devoutly do I pray that such an event may occur by your Majesty's speedy
and unanimous restoration!"

"You have found out a reason," said the King, pettishly, "to make me detest the thought of
such a change--nor have you, Alice, any sincere interest to pray for it. On the contrary, do
you not see that your lover, walking side by side with Cromwell, may, or rather must, share
his power? nay, if Lambert does not anticipate him, he may trip up Oliver's heels, and reign
in his stead. And think you not he will find means to overcome the pride of the loyal Lees,
and achieve an union, for which things are better prepared than that which Cromwell is said
to meditate betwixt one of his brats and the no less loyal heir of Fauconberg?"

"Your Majesty," said Alice, "has found a way at length to avenge yourself--if what I have said
deserves vengeance."

"I could point out a yet shorter road to your union," said Charles, without minding her distress,
or perhaps enjoying the pleasure of retaliation. "Suppose that you sent your Colonel word that
there was one Charles Stewart here, who had come to disturb the Saints in their peaceful government,
which they had acquired by prayer and preaching, pike and gun,--and suppose he had the art
to bring down a half-score of troopers, quite enough, as times go, to decide the fate of this
heir of royalty--think you not the possession of such a prize as this might obtain from the
Rumpers, or from Cromwell, such a reward as might overcome your father's objections to a roundhead's
alliance, and place the fair Alice and her cousin Colonel in full possession of their wishes?"

"My liege," said Alice, her cheeks glowing, and her eyes sparkling--for she too had her share
of the hereditary temperament of her family,-- "this passes my patience. I have heard, without
expressing anger, the most ignominious persuasions addressed to myself, and I have vindicated
myself for refusing to be the paramour of a fugitive Prince, as if I had been excusing myself
from accepting a share of an actual crown. But do you think I can hear all who are dear to
me slandered without emotion or reply? I will not, sir; and were you seated with all the terrors
of your father's Star-chamber around you, you should hear me defend the absent and the innocent.
Of my father I will say nothing, but that if he is now without wealth--without state, almost
without a sheltering home and needful food--it is because he spent all in the service of the
King. He needed not to commit any act of treachery or villany to obtain wealth-- he had an
ample competence in his own possessions. For Markham Everard-- he knows no such thing as selfishness--he
would not, for broad England, had she the treasures of Peru in her bosom, and a paradise on
her surface, do a deed that would disgrace his own name, or injure the feelings of another--Kings,
my liege, may take a lesson from him. My liege, for the present I take my leave."

"Alice, Alice--stay!" exclaimed the King. "She is gone.--This must be virtue--real, disinterested,
overawing virtue--or there is no such thing on earth. Yet Wilmot and Villiers will not believe
a word of it, but add the tale to the other wonders of Woodstock. 'Tis a rare wench! and I
profess, to use the Colonel's obtestation, that I know not whether to forgive and be friends
with her, or study a dire revenge. If it were not for that accursed cousin--that puritan Colonel--I
could forgive every thing else to so noble a wench. But a roundheaded rebel preferred to me--the
preference avowed to my face, and justified with the assertion, that a king might take a lesson
from him--it is gall and wormwood. If the old man had not come up this morning as he did, the
King should have taken or given a lesson, and a severe one. It was a mad rencontre to venture
upon with my rank and responsibility--and yet this wench has made me so angry with her, and
so envious of him, that if an opportunity offered, I should scarce be able to forbear him.--Ha!
whom have we here?"

The interjection at the conclusion of this royal soliloquy, was occasioned by the unexpected
entrance of another personage of the drama.

       *       *        *       *        *

CHAPTER THE TWENTY-SEVENTH.

As Charles was about to leave the apartment, he was prevented by the appearance of Wildrake,
who entered with an unusual degree of swagger in his gait, and of fantastic importance on his
brow. "I crave your pardon, fair sir," he said; "but, as they say in my country, when doors
are open dogs enter. I have knocked and called in the hall to no purpose; so, knowing the way
to this parlour, sir,--for I am a light partisan, and the road I once travel I never forget,--I
ventured to present myself unannounced."

"Sir Henry Lee is abroad, sir, I believe, in the Chase," said Charles, coldly, for the appearance
of this somewhat vulgar debauchee was not agreeable to him at the moment, "and Master Albert
Lee has left the Lodge for two or three days."

"I am aware of it, sir," said Wildrake; "but I have no business at present with either."

"And with whom is your business?" said Charles; "that is, if I may be permitted to ask--since
I think it cannot in possibility be with me."

"Pardon me in turn, sir," answered the cavalier; "in no possibility can it be imparted to any
other but yourself, if you be, as I think you are, though in something better habit, Master
Louis Girnigo, the Scottish gentleman who waits upon Master Albert Lee."

"I am all you are like to find for him," answered Charles.

"In truth," said the cavalier, "I do perceive a difference, but rest, and better clothing,
will do much; and I am glad of it, since I would be sorry to have brought a message, such as
I am charged with, to a tatterdemalion."

"Let us get to the business, sir, if you please," said the King--"you have a message for me,
you say?"

"True, sir," replied Wildrake; "I am the friend of Colonel Markham Everard, sir, a tall man,
and a worthy person in the field, although I could wish him a better cause--A message I have
to you, it is certain, in a slight note, which I take the liberty of presenting with the usual
formalities." So saying, he drew his sword, put the billet he mentioned upon the point, and
making a profound bow, presented it to Charles.

The disguised Monarch accepted of it, with a grave return of the salute, and said, as he was
about to open the letter, "I am not, I presume, to expect friendly contents in an epistle presented
in so hostile a manner?"

"A-hem, sir," replied the ambassador, clearing his voice, while he arranged a suitable answer,
in which the mild strain of diplomacy might be properly maintained; "not utterly hostile, I
suppose, sir, is the invitation, though it be such as must be construed in the commencement
rather bellicose and pugnacious. I trust, sir, we shall find that a few thrusts will make a
handsome conclusion of the business; and so, as my old master used to say, Pax mascitur ex
bello. For my own poor share, I am truly glad to have been graced by my friend, Markham Everard,
in this matter--the rather as I feared the puritan principles with which he is imbued, (I will
confess the truth to you, worthy sir,) might have rendered him unwilling, from certain scruples,
to have taken the gentlemanlike and honourable mode of righting himself in such a case as the
present. And as I render a friend's duty to my friend, so I humbly hope, Master Louis Girnigo,
that I do no injustice to you, in preparing the way for the proposed meeting, where, give me
leave to say, I trust, that if no fatal accident occur, we shall be all better friends when
the skirmish is over than we were before it began."

"I should suppose so, sir, in any case," said Charles, looking at the letter; "worse than mortal
enemies we can scarce be, and it is that footing upon which this billet places us."

"You say true, sir," said Wildrake; "it is, sir, a cartel, introducing to a single combat,
for the pacific object of restoring a perfect good understanding betwixt the survivors--in
case that fortunately that word can be used in the plural after the event of the meeting."

"In short, we only fight, I suppose," replied the King, "that we may come to a perfectly good
and amicable understanding?"

"You are right again, sir; and I thank you for the clearness of your apprehension," said Wildrake.--"Ah,
sir, it is easy to do with a person of honour and of intellect in such a case as this. And
I beseech you, sir, as a personal kindness to myself, that, as the morning is like to be frosty,
and myself am in some sort rheumatic--as war will leave its scars behind, sir,--I say, I will
entreat of you to bring with you some gentleman of honour, who will not disdain to take part
in what is going forward--a sort of pot-luck, sir--with a poor old soldier like myself-- that
we may take no harm by standing unoccupied during such cold weather."

"I understand, sir," replied Charles; "if this matter goes forward, be assured I will endeavour
to provide you with a suitable opponent."

"I shall remain greatly indebted to you, sir," said Wildrake; "and I am by no means curious
about the quality of my antagonist. It is true I write myself esquire and gentleman, and should
account myself especially honoured by crossing my sword with that of Sir Henry or Master Albert
Lee; but, should that not be convenient, I will not refuse to present my poor person in opposition
to any gentleman who has served the King,-- which I always hold as a sort of letters of nobility
in itself, and, therefore, would on no account decline the duello with such a person."

"The King is much obliged to you, sir," said Charles, "for the honour you do his faithful subjects."

"O, sir, I am scrupulous on that point--very scrupulous.--When there is a roundhead in question,
I consult the Herald's books, to see that he is entitled to bear arms, as is Master Markham
Everard, without which, I promise you, I had borne none of his cartel. But a cavalier is with
me a gentleman, of course--Be his birth ever so low, his loyalty has ennobled his condition."

"It is well, sir," said the King. "This paper requests me to meet Master Everard at six to-morrow
morning, at the tree called the King's Oak--I object neither to place nor time. He proffers
the sword, at which, he says, we possess some equality--I do not decline the weapon; for company,
two gentlemen--I shall endeavour to procure myself an associate, and a suitable partner for
you, sir, if you incline to join in the dance."

"I kiss your hand, sir, and rest yours, under a sense of obligation," answered the envoy.

"I thank you, sir," continued the King; "I will therefore be ready at place and time, and suitably
furnished; and I will either give your friend such satisfaction with my sword as he requires,
or will render him such cause for not doing so as he will be contented with."

"You will excuse me, sir," said Wildrake, "if my mind is too dull, under the circumstances,
to conceive any alternative that can remain betwixt two men of honour in such a case, excepting--sa--sa--."
He threw himself into a fencing position, and made a pass with his sheathed rapier, but not
directed towards the person of the King, whom he addressed.

"Excuse me, sir," said Charles, "if I do not trouble your intellects with the consideration
of a case which may not occur.--But, for example, I may plead urgent employment on the part
of the public." This he spoke in a low and mysterious tone of voice, which Wildrake appeared
perfectly to comprehend; for he laid his forefinger on his nose with what he meant for a very
intelligent and apprehensive nod.

"Sir," said he, "if you be engaged in any affair for the King, my friend shall have every reasonable
degree of patience--Nay, I will fight him myself in your stead, merely to stay his stomach,
rather than you should be interrupted.--And, sir, if you can find room in your enterprise for
a poor gentleman that has followed Lunsford and Goring, you have but to name day, time, and
place of rendezvous; for truly, sir, I am tired of the scald hat, cropped hair, and undertaker's
cloak, with which my friend has bedizened me, and would willingly ruffle it out once more in
the King's cause, when whether I be banged or hanged, I care not."

"I shall remember what you say, sir, should an opportunity occur," said the King; "and I wish
his Majesty had many such subjects--I presume our business is now settled?"

"When you shall have been pleased, sir, to give me a trifling scrap of writing, to serve for
my credentials--for such, you know, is the custom--your written cartel hath its written answer."

"That, sir, will I presently do," said Charles, "and in good time, here are the materials."

"And, sir," continued the envoy--"Ah!--ahem!--if you have interest in the household for a cup
of sack--I am a man of few words, and am somewhat hoarse with much speaking--moreover, a serious
business of this kind always makes one thirsty.--Besides, sir, to part with dry lips argues
malice, which God forbid should exist in such an honourable conjuncture."

"I do not boast much influence in the house, sir," said the King; "but if you would have the
condescension to accept of this broad piece towards quenching your thirst at the George"--

"Sir," said the cavalier, (for the times admitted of this strange species of courtesy, nor
was Wildrake a man of such peculiar delicacy as keenly to dispute the matter,)--"I am once
again beholden to you. But I see not how it consists with my honour to accept of such accommodation,
unless you were to accompany and partake?"

"Pardon me, sir," replied Charles, "my safety recommends that I remain rather private at present."

"Enough said," Wildrake observed; "poor cavaliers must not stand on ceremony. I see, sir, you
understand cutter's law--when one tall fellow has coin, another must not be thirsty. I wish
you, sir, a continuance of health and happiness until to-morrow, at the King's Oak, at six
o'clock."

"Farewell, sir," said the King, and added, as Wildrake went down the stair whistling, "Hey
for cavaliers," to which air his long rapier, jarring against the steps and banisters, bore
no unsuitable burden-- "Farewell, thou too just emblem of the state, to which war, and defeat,
and despair, have reduced many a gallant gentleman."

During the rest of the day, there occurred nothing peculiarly deserving of notice. Alice sedulously
avoided showing towards the disguised Prince any degree of estrangement or shyness, which could
be discovered by her father, or by any one else. To all appearance, the two young persons continued
on the same footing in every respect. Yet she made the gallant himself sensible, that this
apparent intimacy was assumed merely to save appearances, and in no way designed as retracting
from the severity with which she had rejected his suit. The sense that this was the case, joined
to his injured self-love, and his enmity against a successful rival, induced Charles early
to withdraw himself to a solitary walk in the wilderness, where, like Hercules in the Emblem
of Cebes, divided betwixt the personifications of Virtue and of Pleasure, he listened alternately
to the voice of Wisdom and of passionate Folly.

Prudence urged to him the importance of his own life to the future prosecution of the great
object in which he had for the present miscarried--the restoration of monarchy in England,
the rebuilding of the throne, the regaining the crown of his father, the avenging his death,
and restoring to their fortunes and their country the numerous exiles, who were suffering poverty
and banishment on account of their attachment to his cause. Pride too, or rather a just and
natural sense of dignity, displayed the unworthiness of a Prince descending to actual personal
conflict with a subject of any degree, and the ridicule which would be thrown on his memory,
should he lose his life for an obscure intrigue by the hand of a private gentleman. What would
his sage counsellors, Nicholas and Hyde--what would his kind and wise governor, the Marquis
of Hertford, say to such an act of rashness and folly? Would it not be likely to shake the
allegiance of the staid and prudent persons of the royalist party, since wherefore should they
expose their lives and estates to raise to the government of a kingdom a young man who could
not command his own temper? To this was to be added, the consideration that even his success
would add double difficulties to his escape, which already seemed sufficiently precarious.
If, stopping short of death, he merely had the better of his antagonist, how did he know that
he might not seek revenge by delivering up to government the malignant Louis Kerneguy, whose
real character could not in that case fail to be discovered?

These considerations strongly recommended to Charles that he should clear himself of the challenge
without fighting; and the reservation under which he had accepted it, afforded him some opportunity
of doing so.

But Passion also had her arguments, which she addressed to a temper rendered irritable by recent
distress and mortification. In the first place, if he was a prince, he was also a gentleman,
entitled to resent as such, and obliged to give or claim the satisfaction expected on occasion
of differences among gentlemen. With Englishmen, she urged, he could never lose interest by
showing himself ready, instead of sheltering himself under his royal birth and pretensions,
to come frankly forward and maintain what he had done or said on his own responsibility. In
a free nation, it seemed as if he would rather gain than lose in the public estimation by a
conduct which could not but seem gallant and generous. Then a character for courage was far
more necessary to support his pretensions than any other kind of reputation; and the lying
under a challenge, without replying to it, might bring his spirit into question. What would
Villiers and Wilmot say of an intrigue, in which he had allowed himself to be shamefully baffled
by a country girl, and had failed to revenge himself on his rival? The pasquinades which they
would compose, the witty sarcasms which they would circulate on the occasion, would be harder
to endure than the grave rebukes of Hertford, Hyde, and Nicholas. This reflection, added to
the stings of youthful and awakened courage, at length fixed his resolution, and he returned
to Woodstock determined to keep his appointment, come of it what might.

Perhaps there mingled with his resolution a secret belief that such a rencontre would not prove
fatal. He was in the flower of his youth, active in all his exercises, and no way inferior
to Colonel Everard, as far as the morning's experiment had gone, in that of self-defence. At
least, such recollection might pass through his royal mind, as he hummed to himself a well-known
ditty, which he had picked up during his residence in Scotland--

  "A man may drink and not be drunk;
     A man may fight and not be slain;
   A man may kiss a bonnie lass,
     And yet be welcome back again."

Meanwhile the busy and all-directing Dr. Rochecliffe had contrived to intimate to Alice that
she must give him a private audience, and she found him by appointment in what was called the
study, once filled with ancient books, which, long since converted into cartridges, had made
more noise in the world at their final exit, than during the space which had intervened betwixt
that and their first publication. The Doctor seated himself in a high-backed leathern easy-chair,
and signed to Alice to fetch a stool and sit down beside him.

"Alice," said the old man, taking her hand affectionately, "thou art a good girl, a wise girl,
a virtuous girl, one of those whose price is above rubies--not that rubies is the proper translation--but
remind me to tell you of that another time. Alice, thou knowest who this Louis Kerneguy is--nay,
hesitate not to me--I know every thing--I am well aware of the whole matter. Thou knowest this
honoured house holds the Fortunes of England." Alice was about to answer. "Nay, speak not,
but listen to me, Alice--How does he bear himself towards you?"

Alice coloured with the deepest crimson. "I am a country-bred girl," she said, "and his manners
are too courtlike for me."

"Enough said--I know it all. Alice, he is exposed to a great danger to-morrow, and you must
be the happy means to prevent him."

"I prevent him!--how, and in what manner?" said Alice, in surprise. "It is my duty, as a subject,
to do anything--anything that may become my father's daughter"--

Here she stopped, considerably embarrassed.

"Yes," continued the Doctor, "to-morrow he hath made an appointment--an appointment with Markham
Everard; the hour and place are set--six in the morning, by the King's Oak. If they meet, one
will probably fall."

"Now, may God forefend they should meet," said Alice, turning as suddenly pale as she had previously
reddened. "But harm cannot come of it; Everard will never lift his sword against the King."

"For that," said Dr. Rochecliffe, "I would not warrant. But if that unhappy young gentleman
shall have still some reserve of the loyalty which his general conduct entirely disavows, it
would not serve us here; for he knows not the King, but considers him merely as a cavalier,
from whom he has received injury."

"Let him know the truth, Doctor Rochecliffe, let him know it instantly," said Alice; "he lift
hand against the King, a fugitive and defenceless! He is incapable of it. My life on the issue,
he becomes most active in his preservation."

"That is the thought of a maiden, Alice," answered the Doctor; "and, as I fear, of a maiden
whose wisdom is misled by her affections. It were worse than treason to admit a rebel officer,
the friend of the arch-traitor Cromwell, into so great a secret. I dare not answer for such
rashness. Hammond was trusted by his father, and you know what came of it."

"Then let my father know. He will meet Markham, or send to him, representing the indignity
done to him by attacking his guest."

"We dare not let your father into the secret who Louis Kerneguy really is. I did but hint the
possibility of Charles taking refuge at Woodstock, and the rapture into which Sir Henry broke
out, the preparations for accommodation and the defence which he began to talk of, plainly
showed that the mere enthusiasm of his loyalty would have led to a risk of discovery. It is
you, Alice, who must save the hopes of every true royalist."

"I!" answered Alice; "it is impossible.--Why cannot my father be induced to interfere, as in
behalf of his friend and guest, though he know him as no other than Louis Kerneguy?"

"You have forgot your father's character, my young friend," said the Doctor; "an excellent
man, and the best of Christians, till there is a clashing of swords, and then he starts up
the complete martialist, as deaf to every pacific reasoning as if he were a game-cock."

"You forget, Doctor Rochecliffe," said Alice, "that this very morning, if I understand the
thing aright, my father prevented them from fighting."

"Ay," answered the Doctor, "because he deemed himself bound to keep the peace in the Royal-Park;
but it was done with such regret, Alice, that, should he find them at it again, I am clear
to foretell he will only so far postpone the combat as to conduct them to some unprivileged
ground, and there bid them tilt and welcome, while he regaled his eyes with a scene so pleasing.
No, Alice, it is you, and you only, who can help us in this extremity."

"I see no possibility," said she, again colouring, "how I can be of the least use."

"You must send a note," answered Dr. Rochecliffe, "to the King--a note such as all women know
how to write better than any man can teach them--to meet you at the precise hour of the rendezvous.
He will not fail you, for I know his unhappy foible."

"Doctor Rochecliffe," said Alice gravely,--"you have known me from infancy,--What have you
seen in me to induce you to believe that I should ever follow such unbecoming counsel?"

"And if you have known me from infancy," retorted the Doctor, "what have you seen of me that
you should suspect me of giving counsel to my friend's daughter, which it would be misbecoming
in her to follow? You cannot be fool enough, I think, to suppose, that I mean you should carry
your complaisance farther than to keep him in discourse for an hour or two, till I have all
in readiness for his leaving this place, from which I can frighten him by the terrors of an
alleged search?--So, C. S. mounts his horse and rides off, and Mistress Alice Lee has the honour
of saving him."

"Yes, at the expense of my own reputation," said Alice, "and the risk of an eternal stain on
my family. You say you know all. What can the King think of my appointing an assignation with
him after what has passed, and how will it be possible to disabuse him respecting the purpose
of my doing so?"

"I will disabuse him, Alice; I will explain the whole."

"Doctor Rochecliffe," said Alice, "you propose what is impossible. You can do much by your
ready wit and great wisdom; but if new-fallen snow were once sullied, not all your art could
wash it clean again; and it is altogether the same with a maiden's reputation."

"Alice, my dearest child," said the Doctor, "bethink you that if I recommended this means of
saving the life of the King, at least rescuing him from instant peril, it is because I see
no other of which to avail myself. If I bid you assume, even for a moment, the semblance of
what is wrong, it is but in the last extremity, and under circumstances which cannot return--I
will take the surest means to prevent all evil report which can arise from what I recommend."

"Say not so, Doctor," said Alice; "better undertake to turn back the Isis than to stop the
course of calumny. The King will make boast to his whole licentious court, of the ease with
which, but for a sudden alarm, he could have brought off Alice Lee as a paramour--the mouth
which confers honour on others, will then be the means to deprive me of mine. Take a fitter
course, one more becoming your own character and profession. Do not lead him to fail in an
engagement of honour, by holding out the prospect of another engagement equally dishonourable,
whether false or true. Go to the King himself, speak to him, as the servants of God have a
right to speak, even to earthly sovereigns. Point out to him the folly and the wickedness of
the course he is about to pursue--urge upon him, that he fear the sword, since wrath bringeth
the punishment of the sword. Tell him, that the friends who died for him in the field at Worcester,
on the scaffolds, and on the gibbets, since that bloody day--that the remnant who are in prison,
scattered, fled, and ruined on his account, deserve better of him and his father's race, than
that he should throw away his life in an idle brawl--Tell him, that it is dishonest to venture
that which is not his own, dishonourable to betray the trust which brave men have reposed in
his virtue and in his courage."

Dr. Rochecliffe looked on her with a melancholy smile, his eyes glistening as he said, "Alas!
Alice, even I could not plead that just cause to him so eloquently or so impressively as thou
dost. But, alack! Charles would listen to neither. It is not from priests or women, he would
say, that men should receive counsel in affairs of honour."

"Then, hear me, Doctor Rochecliffe--I will appear at the place of rendezvous, and I will prevent
the combat--do not fear that I can do what I say--at a sacrifice, indeed, but not that of my
reputation. My heart may be broken"--she endeavoured to stifle her sobs with difficulty--"for
the consequence; but not in the imagination of a man, and far less that man her sovereign,
shall a thought of Alice Lee be associated with dishonour." She hid her face in her handkerchief,
and burst out into unrestrained tears.

"What means this hysterical passion?" said Dr. Rochecliffe, surprised and somewhat alarmed
by the vehemence of her grief--"Maiden, I must have no concealments; I must know."

"Exert your ingenuity, then, and discover it," said Alice--for a moment put out of temper at
the Doctor's pertinacious self-importance--"Guess my purpose, as you can guess at every thing
else. It is enough to have to go through my task, I will not endure the distress of telling
it over, and that to one who--forgive me, dear Doctor--might not think my agitation on this
occasion fully warranted."

"Nay, then, my young mistress, you must be ruled," said Rochecliffe; "and if I cannot make
you explain yourself, I must see whether your father can gain so far on you." So saying, he
arose somewhat displeased, and walked towards the door.

"You forget what you yourself told me, Doctor Rochecliffe," said Alice, "of the risk of communicating
this great secret to my father."

"It is too true," he said, stopping short and turning round; "and I think, wench, thou art
too smart for me, and I have not met many such. But thou art a good girl, and wilt tell me
thy device of free-will--it concerns my character and influence with the King, that I should
be fully acquainted with whatever is actum atque tractatum, done and treated of in this matter."

"Trust your character to me, good Doctor," said Alice, attempting to smile; "it is of firmer
stuff than those of women, and will be safer in my custody than mine could have been in yours.
And thus much I condescend--you shall see the whole scene--you shall go with me yourself, and
much will I feel emboldened and heartened by your company."

"That is something," said the Doctor, though not altogether satisfied with this limited confidence.
"Thou wert ever a clever wench, and I will trust thee; indeed, trust thee I find I must, whether
voluntarily or no."

"Meet me, then," said Alice, "in the wilderness to-morrow. But first tell me, are you well
assured of time and place?--a mistake were fatal."

"Assure yourself my information is entirely accurate," said the Doctor, resuming his air of
consequence, which had been a little diminished during the latter part of their conference.

"May I ask," said Alice, "through what channel you acquired such important information?"

"You may ask, unquestionably," he answered, now completely restored to his supremacy; "but
whether I will answer or not, is a very different question. I conceive neither your reputation
nor my own is interested in your remaining in ignorance on that subject. So I have my secrets
as well as you, mistress; and some of them, I fancy, are a good deal more worth knowing."

"Be it so," said Alice, quietly; "if you will meet me in the wilderness by the broken dial
at half-past five exactly, we will go together to-morrow, and watch them as they come to the
rendezvous. I will on the way get the better of my present timidity, and explain to you the
means I design to employ to prevent mischief. You can perhaps think of making some effort which
may render my interference, unbecoming and painful as it must be, altogether unnecessary."

"Nay, my child," said the Doctor, "if you place yourself in my hands, you will be the first
that ever had reason to complain of my want of conduct, and you may well judge you are the
very last (one excepted) whom I would see suffer for want of counsel. At half-past five, then,
at the dial in the wilderness--and God bless our undertaking!"

Here their interview was interrupted by the sonorous voice of Sir Henry Lee, which shouted
their names, "Daughter Alice--Doctor Rochecliffe," through passage and gallery.

"What do you here," said he, entering, "sitting like two crows in a mist, when we have such
rare sport below? Here is this wild crack-brained boy Louis Kerneguy, now making me laugh till
my sides are fit to split, and now playing on his guitar sweetly enough to win a lark from
the heavens.--Come away with you, come away. It is hard work to laugh alone."

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAPTER THE TWENTY-EIGHTH.

  This is the place, the centre of the grove;
  Here stands the oak, the monarch of the wood.
   JOHN HOME.

The sun had risen on the broad boughs of the forest, but without the power of penetrating into
its recesses, which hung rich with heavy dewdrops, and were beginning on some of the trees
to exhibit the varied tints of autumn; it being the season when Nature, like a prodigal whose
race is well-nigh run, seems desirous to make up in profuse gaiety and variety of colours,
for the short space which her splendour has then to endure. The birds were silent--and even
Robin-redbreast, whose chirruping song was heard among the bushes near the Lodge, emboldened
by the largesses with which the good old knight always encouraged his familiarity, did not
venture into the recesses of the wood, where he encountered the sparrow-hawk, and other enemies
of a similar description, preferring the vicinity of the dwellings of man, from whom he, almost
solely among the feathered tribes, seems to experience disinterested protection.

The scene was therefore at once lovely and silent, when the good Dr. Rochecliffe, wrapped in
a scarlet roquelaure, which had seen service in its day, muffling his face more from habit
than necessity, and supporting Alice on his arm, (she also defended by a cloak against the
cold and damp of the autumn morning,) glided through the tangled and long grass of the darkest
alleys, almost ankle-deep in dew, towards the place appointed for the intended duel. Both so
eagerly maintained the consultation in which they were engaged, that they were alike insensible
of the roughness and discomforts of the road, though often obliged to force their way through
brushwood and coppice, which poured down on them all the liquid pearls with which they were
loaded, till the mantles they were wrapped in hung lank by their sides, and clung to their
shoulders heavily charged with moisture. They stopped when they had attained a station under
the coppice, and shrouded by it, from which they could see all that passed on the little esplanade
before the King's Oak, whose broad and scathed form, contorted and shattered limbs, and frowning
brows, made it appear like some ancient war-worn champion, well selected to be the umpire of
a field of single combat.

The first person who appeared at the rendezvous was the gay cavalier Roger Wildrake. He also
was wrapped in his cloak, but had discarded his puritanic beaver, and wore in its stead a Spanish
hat, with a feather and gilt hatband, all of which had encountered bad weather and hard service;
but to make amends for the appearance of poverty by the show of pretension, the castor was
accurately adjusted after what was rather profanely called the d--me cut, used among the more
desperate cavaliers. He advanced hastily, and exclaimed aloud--"First in the field after all,
by Jove, though I bilked Everard in order to have my morning draught.-- It has done me much
good," he added, smacking his lips.--"Well, I suppose I should search the ground ere my principal
comes up, whose Presbyterian watch trudges as slow as his Presbyterian step."

He took his rapier from under his cloak, and seemed about to search the thickets around.

"I will prevent him," whispered the Doctor to Alice. "I will keep faith with you--you shall
not come on the scene--nisi dignus vindice nodus-- I'll explain that another time. Vindex is
feminine as well as masculine, so the quotation is defensible.--Keep you close."

So saying, he stepped forward on the esplanade, and bowed to Wildrake.

"Master Louis Kerneguy," said Wildrake, pulling off his hat; but instantly discovering his
error, he added, "But no--I beg your pardon, sir--Fatter, shorter, older.--Mr. Kerneguy's friend,
I suppose, with whom I hope to have a turn by and by.--And why not now, sir, before our principals
come up? Just a snack to stay the orifice of the stomach, till the dinner is served, sir? What
say you?"

"To open the orifice of the stomach more likely, or to give it a new one," said the Doctor.

"True, sir," said Roger, who seemed now in his element; "you say well--that is as thereafter
may be.--But come, sir, you wear your face muffled. I grant you, it is honest men's fashion
at this unhappy time; the more is the pity. But we do all above board--we have no traitors
here. I'll get into my gears first, to encourage you, and show you that you have to deal with
a gentleman, who honours the King, and is a match fit to fight with any who follow him, as
doubtless you do, sir, since you are the friend of Master Louis Kerneguy."

All this while, Wildrake was busied undoing the clasps of his square-caped cloak.

"Off--off, ye lendings," he said, "borrowings I should more properly call you--"

So saying, he threw the cloak from him, and appeared in cuerpo, in a most cavalier-like doublet,
of greasy crimson satin, pinked and slashed with what had been once white tiffany; breeches
of the same; and nether-stocks, or, as we now call them, stockings, darned in many places,
and which, like those of Poins, had been once peach-coloured. A pair of pumps, ill calculated
for a walk through the dew, and a broad shoulderbelt of tarnished embroidery, completed his
equipment.

"Come, sir!" he exclaimed; "make haste, off with your slough--Here I stand tight and true--as
loyal a lad as ever stuck rapier through a roundhead.--Come, sir, to your tools!" he continued;
"we may have half-a-dozen thrusts before they come yet, and shame them for their tardiness.--Pshaw!"
he exclaimed, in a most disappointed tone, when the Doctor, unfolding his cloak, showed his
clerical dress; "Tush! it's but the parson after all!"

Wildrake's respect for the Church, however, and his desire to remove one who might possibly
interrupt a scene to which he looked forward with peculiar satisfaction, induced him presently
to assume another tone.

"I beg pardon," he said, "my dear Doctor--I kiss the hem of your cassock--I do, by the thundering
Jove--I beg your pardon again.--But I am happy I have met with you--They are raving for your
presence at the Lodge--to marry, or christen, or bury, or confess, or something very urgent.--For
Heaven's sake, make haste!"

"At the Lodge?" said the Doctor; "why, I left the Lodge this instant--I was there later, I
am sure, than you could be, who came the Woodstock road."

"Well," replied Wildrake, "it is at Woodstock they want you.--Rat it, did I say the Lodge?--No,
no--Woodstock--Mine host cannot be hanged--his daughter married--his bastard christened, or
his wife buried--without the assistance of a real clergyman--Your Holdenoughs won't do for
them.--He's a true man mine host; so, as you value your function, make haste."

"You will pardon me, Master Wildrake," said the Doctor--"I wait for Master Louis Kerneguy."

"The devil you do!" exclaimed Wildrake. "Why, I always knew the Scots could do nothing without
their minister; but d--n it, I never thought they put them to this use neither. But I have
known jolly customers in orders, who understood how to handle the sword as well as their prayer-book.
You know the purpose of our meeting, Doctor. Do you come only as a ghostly comforter--or as
a surgeon, perhaps--or do you ever take bilboa in hand?--Sa--sa!"

Here he made a fencing demonstration with his sheathed rapier.

"I have done so, sir, on necessary occasion," said Dr. Rochecliffe.

"Good sir, let this stand for a necessary one," said Wildrake. "You know my devotion for the
Church. If a divine of your skill would do me the honour to exchange but three passes with
me, I should think myself happy for ever."

"Sir," said Rochecliffe, smiling, "were there no other objection to what you propose, I have
not the means--I have no weapon."

"What? you want the de quoi? that is unlucky indeed. But you have a stout cane in your hand--what
hinders our trying a pass (my rapier being sheathed of course) until our principals come up?
My pumps are full of this frost-dew; and I shall be a toe or two out of pocket, if I am to
stand still all the time they are stretching themselves; for, I fancy, Doctor, you are of my
opinion, that the matter will not be a fight of cock-sparrows."

"My business here is to make it, if possible, be no fight at all," said the divine.

"Now, rat me, Doctor, but that is too spiteful," said Wildrake; "and were it not for my respect
for the Church, I could turn Presbyterian, to be revenged."

"Stand back a little, if you please, sir," said the Doctor; "do not press forward in that direction."--For
Wildrake, in the agitation of his movements, induced by his disappointment, approached the
spot where Alice remained still concealed.

"And wherefore not, I pray you, Doctor?" said the cavalier.

But on advancing a step, he suddenly stopped short, and muttered to himself, with a round oath
of astonishment, "A petticoat in the coppice, by all that is reverend, and at this hour in
the morning-- Whew--ew--ew!"--He gave vent to his surprise in a long low interjectional whistle;
then turning to the Doctor, with his finger on the side of his nose, "You're sly, Doctor, d--d
sly! But why not give me a hint of your--your commodity there--your contraband goods? Gad,
sir, I am not a man to expose the eccentricities of the Church."

"Sir," said Dr. Rochecliffe, "you are impertinent; and if time served, and it were worth my
while, I would chastise you."

And the Doctor, who had served long enough in the wars to have added some of the qualities
of a captain of horse to those of a divine, actually raised his cane, to the infinite delight
of the rake, whose respect for the Church was by no means able to subdue his love of mischief.

"Nay, Doctor," said he, "if you wield your weapon broadsword-fashion, in that way, and raise
it as high as your head, I shall be through you in a twinkling." So saying, he made a pass
with his sheathed rapier, not precisely at the Doctor's person, but in that direction; when
Rochecliffe, changing the direction of his cane from the broadsword guard to that of the rapier,
made the cavalier's sword spring ten yards out of his hand, with all the dexterity of my friend
Francalanza. At this moment both the principal parties appeared on the field.

Everard exclaimed angrily to Wildrake, "Is this your friendship? In Heaven's name, what make
you in that fool's jacket, and playing the pranks of a jack-pudding?" while his worthy second,
somewhat crest-fallen, held down his head, like a boy caught in roguery, and went to pick up
his weapon, stretching his head, as he passed, into the coppice, to obtain another glimpse,
if possible, of the concealed object of his curiosity.

Charles in the meantime, still more surprised at what he beheld, called out on his part--"What!
Doctor Rochecliffe become literally one of the church militant, and tilting with my friend
cavalier Wildrake? May I use the freedom to ask him to withdraw, as Colonel Everard and I have
some private business to settle?"

It was Dr. Rochecliffe's cue, on this important occasion, to have armed himself with the authority
of his sacred office, and used a tone of interference which might have overawed even a monarch,
and made him feel that his monitor spoke by a warrant higher than his own. But the indiscreet
latitude he had just given to his own passion, and the levity in which he had been detected,
were very unfavourable to his assuming that superiority, to which so uncontrollable a spirit
as that of Charles, wilful as a prince, and capricious as a wit, was at all likely to submit.
The Doctor did, however, endeavour to rally his dignity, and replied, with the gravest, and
at the same time the most respectful, tone he could assume, that he also had business of the
most urgent nature, which prevented him from complying with Master Kerneguy's wishes and leaving
the spot.

"Excuse this untimely interruption," said Charles, taking off his hat, and bowing to Colonel
Everard, "which I will immediately put an end to." Everard gravely returned his salute, and
was silent.

"Are you mad, Doctor Rochecliffe?" said Charles--"or are you deaf?--or have you forgotten your
mother-tongue? I desired you to leave this place."

"I am not mad," said the divine, rousing up his resolution, and regaining the natural firmness
of his voice--"I would prevent others from being so; I am not deaf--I would pray others to
hear the voice of reason and religion; I have not forgotten my mother-tongue--but I have come
hither to speak the language of the Master of kings and princes."

"To fence with broomsticks, I should rather suppose," said the King-- "Come, Doctor Rochecliffe,
this sudden fit of assumed importance befits you as little as your late frolic. You are not,
I apprehend, either a Catholic priest or a Scotch Mass-John to claim devoted obedience from
your hearers, but a Church-of-England-man, subject to the rules of that Communion--and to its
HEAD." In speaking the last words, the King lowered his voice to a low and impressive whisper.
Everard observing this drew back, the natural generosity of his temper directing him to avoid
overhearing private discourse, in which the safety of the speakers might be deeply concerned.
They continued, however, to observe great caution in their forms of expression.

"Master Kerneguy," said the clergyman, "it is not I who assume authority or control over your
wishes--God forbid; I do but tell you what reason, Scripture, religion, and morality, alike
prescribe for your rule of conduct."

"And I, Doctor," said the King, smiling, and pointing to the unlucky cane, "will take your
example rather than your precept. If a reverend clergyman will himself fight a bout at single-stick,
what right can he have to interfere in gentlemen's quarrels?--Come, sir, remove yourself, and
do not let your present obstinacy cancel former obligations."

"Bethink yourself," said the divine,--"I can say one word which will prevent all this."

"Do it," replied the King, "and in doing so belie the whole tenor and actions of an honourable
life--abandon the principles of your Church, and become a perjured traitor and an apostate,
to prevent another person from discharging his duty as a gentleman! This were indeed killing
your friend to prevent the risk of his running himself into danger. Let the Passive Obedience,
which is so often in your mouth, and no doubt in your head, put your feet for once into motion,
and step aside for ten minutes. Within that space your assistance may be needed, either as
body-curer or soul-curer."

"Nay, then," said Dr. Rochecliffe, "I have but one argument left."

While this conversation was carried on apart, Everard had almost forcibly detained by his own
side his follower, Wildrake, whose greater curiosity, and lesser delicacy, would otherwise
have thrust him forward, to get, if possible, into the secret. But when he saw the Doctor turn
into the coppice, he whispered eagerly to Everard--"A gold Carolus to a commonwealth farthing,
the Doctor has not only come to preach a peace, but has brought the principal conditions along
with him!"

Everard made no answer; he had already unsheathed his sword; and Charles hardly saw Rochecliffe's
back fairly turned, than he lost no time in following his example. But, ere they had done more
than salute each other, with the usual courteous nourish of their weapons, Dr. Rochecliffe
again stood between them, leading in his hand Alice Lee, her garments dank with dew, and her
long hair heavy with moisture, and totally uncurled. Her face was extremely pale, but it was
the paleness of desperate resolution, not of fear. There was a dead pause of astonishment--the
combatants rested on their swords--and even the forwardness of Wildrake only vented itself
in half-suppressed ejaculations, as, "Well done, Doctor--this beats the 'parson among the pease'--No
less than your patron's daughter--And Mistress Alice, whom I thought a very snowdrop, turned
out a dog-violet after all--a Lindabrides, by heavens, and altogether one of ourselves."

Excepting these unheeded mutterings, Alice was the first to speak.

"Master Everard," she said--"Master Kerneguy, you are surprised to see me here--Yet, why should
I not tell the reason at once? Convinced that I am, however guiltlessly, the unhappy cause
of your misunderstanding, I am too much interested to prevent fatal consequences to pause upon
any step which may end it.--Master Kerneguy, have my wishes, my entreaties, my prayers--have
your noble thoughts--the recollections of your own high duties, no weight with you in this
matter? Let me entreat you to consult reason, religion, and common sense, and return your weapon."

"I am obedient as an Eastern slave, madam," answered Charles, sheathing his sword; "but I assure
you, the matter about which you distress yourself is a mere trifle, which will be much better
settled betwixt Colonel Everard and myself in five minutes, than with the assistance of the
whole Convocation of the Church, with a female parliament to assist their reverend deliberations.--Mr.
Everard, will you oblige me by walking a little farther?--We must change ground, it seems."

"I am ready to attend you, sir," said Everard, who had sheathed his sword so soon as his antagonist
did so.

"I have then no interest with you, sir," said Alice, continuing to address the King--"Do you
not fear I should use the secret in my power to prevent this affair going to extremity? Think
you this gentleman, who raises his hand against you, if he knew"--

"If he knew that I were Lord Wilmot, you would say?--Accident has given him proof to that effect,
with which he is already satisfied, and I think you would find it difficult to induce him to
embrace a different opinion."

Alice paused, and looked on the King with great indignation, the following words dropping from
her mouth by intervals, as if they burst forth one by one in spite of feelings that would have
restrained them--"Cold--selfish--ungrateful--unkind!--Woe to the land which"--Here she paused
with marked emphasis, then added--"which shall number thee, or such as thee, among her nobles
and rulers!"

"Nay, fair Alice," said Charles, whose good nature could not but feel the severity of this
reproach, though too slightly to make all the desired impression, "You are too unjust to me--too
partial to a happier man. Do not call me unkind; I am but here to answer Mr. Everard's summons.
I could neither decline attending, nor withdraw now I am here, without loss of honour; and
my loss of honour would be a disgrace which must extend to many--I cannot fly from Mr. Everard--it
would be too shameful. If he abides by his message, it must be decided as such affairs usually
are. If he retreats or yields it up, I will, for your sake, wave punctilio. I will not even
ask an apology for the trouble it has afforded me, but let all pass as if it were the consequence
of some unhappy mistake, the grounds of which shall remain on my part unenquired into.--This
I will do for your sake, and it is much for a man of honour to condescend so far--You know
that the condescension from me in particular is great indeed. Then do not call me ungenerous,
or ungrateful, or unkind, since I am ready to do all, which, as a man, I can do, and more perhaps
than as a man of honour I ought to do."

"Do you hear this, Markham Everard?" exclaimed Alice--"do you hear this?--The dreadful option
is left entirely at your disposal. You were wont to be temperate in passion, religious, forgiving--will
you, for a mere punctilio, drive on this private and unchristian broil to a murderous extremity?
Believe me, if you now, contrary to all the better principles of your life, give the reins
to your passions, the consequences may be such as you will rue for your lifetime, and even,
if Heaven have not mercy, rue after your life is finished."

Markham Everard remained for a moment gloomily silent,--with his eyes fixed on the ground.
At length he looked up, and answered her--"Alice, you are a soldier's daughter--a soldier's
sister. All your relations, even including one whom you then entertained some regard for, have
been made soldiers by these unhappy discords. Yet you have seen them take the field--in some
instances on contrary sides, to do their duty where their principles called them, without manifesting
this extreme degree of interest."

He continued, "However, what is the true concern here is our relations with your own self,
and mine is with this gentleman's interest in you. I had expected that our disagreement could
be dealt with as men dispute matters of honor. With your intrusion this cannot be done. I have
few other options for politely resolving this, for you would surely hate the one who killed
the other, to the loss of us both. Therefore," addressing Charles, "in the interest of avoid
this fate, I am forced to yield my interest in her to you; and, as I will never be the means
of giving her pain, I trust you will not think I act unworthily in retracting the letter which
gave you the trouble of attending this place at this hour.--Alice," he said, turning his head
towards her, "Farewell, Alice, at once, and for ever!"

The poor young lady, whose adventitious spirit had almost deserted her, attempted to repeat
the word farewell, but failing in the attempt, only accomplished a broken and imperfect sound,
and would have sunk to the ground, but for Dr. Rochecliffe, who caught her as she fell. Roger
Wildrake, also, who had twice or thrice put to his eyes what remained of a kerchief, interested
by the lady's evident distress, though unable to comprehend the mysterious cause, hastened
to assist the divine in supporting so fair a burden.

Meanwhile, the disguised Prince had beheld the whole in silence, but with an agitation to which
he was unwonted, and which his swarthy features, and still more his motions, began to betray.
His posture was at first absolutely stationary, with his arms folded on his bosom, as one who
waits to be guided by the current of events; presently after, he shifted his position, advanced
and retired his foot, clenched and opened his hand, and otherwise showed symptoms that he was
strongly agitated by contending feelings--was on the point, too, of forming some sudden resolution,
and yet still in uncertainty what course he should pursue.

But when he saw Markham Everard, after one look of unspeakable anguish towards Alice, turning
his back to depart, he broke out into his familiar ejaculation, "Oddsfish! this must not be."
In three strides he overtook the slowly retiring Everard, tapped him smartly on the shoulder,
and, as he turned round, said, with an air of command, which he well knew how to adopt at pleasure,
"One word with you, sir."

"At your pleasure, sir," replied Everard; and naturally conjecturing the purpose of his antagonist
to be hostile, took hold of his rapier with the left hand, and laid the right on the hilt,
not displeased at the supposed call; for anger is at least as much akin to disappointment as
pity is said to be to love.

"Pshaw!" answered the King, "that cannot be now--Colonel Everard, I am CHARLES STEWART!"

Everard recoiled in the greatest surprise, and next exclaimed, "Impossible--it cannot be! The
King of Scots has escaped from Bristol.--My Lord Wilmot, your talents for intrigue are well
known; but this will not pass upon me."

"The King of Scots, Master Everard," replied Charles, "since you are so pleased to limit his
sovereignty--at any rate, the Eldest Son of the late Sovereign of Britain--is now before you;
therefore it is impossible he could have escaped from Bristol. Doctor Rochecliffe shall be
my voucher, and will tell you, moreover, that Wilmot is of a fair complexion and light hair;
mine, you may see, is swart as a raven."

Rochecliffe, seeing what was passing, abandoned Alice to the care of Wildrake, whose extreme
delicacy in the attempts he made to bring her back to life, formed an amiable contrast to his
usual wildness, and occupied him so much, that he remained for the moment ignorant of the disclosure
in which he would have been so much interested. As for Dr. Rochecliffe, he came forward, wringing
his hands in all the demonstration of extreme anxiety, and with the usual exclamations attending
such a state.

"Peace, Doctor Rochecliffe!" said the King, with such complete self-possession as indeed became
a prince; "we are in the hands, I am satisfied, of a man of honour. Master Everard must be
pleased in finding only a fugitive prince in the person in whom he thought he had discovered
a successful rival. He cannot but be aware of the feelings which prevented me from taking advantage
of the cover which this young lady's devoted loyalty afforded me, at the risk of her own happiness.
He is the party who is to profit by my candour; and certainly I have a right to expect that
my condition, already indifferent enough, shall not be rendered worse by his becoming privy
to it under such circumstances. At any rate, the avowal is made; and it is for Colonel Everard
to consider how he is to conduct himself."

"Oh, your Majesty! my Liege! my King! my royal Prince!" exclaimed Wildrake, who, at length
discovering what was passing, had crawled on his knees, and seizing the King's hand, was kissing
it, more like a child mumbling gingerbread, or like a lover devouring the yielded hand of his
mistress, than in the manner in which such salutations pass at court--"If my dear friend Mark
Everard should prove a dog on this occasion, rely on me I will cut his throat on the spot,
were I to do the same for myself the moment afterwards!"

"Hush, hush, my good friend and loyal subject," said the King, "and compose yourself; for though
I am obliged to put on the Prince for a moment, we have not privacy or safety to receive our
subjects in King Cambyses' vein."

Everard, who had stood for a time utterly confounded, awoke at length like a man from a dream.

"Sire," he said, bowing low, and with profound deference, "if I do not offer you the homage
of a subject with knee and sword, it is because God, by whom kings reign, has denied you for
the present the power of ascending your throne without rekindling civil war. For your safety
being endangered by me, let not such an imagination for an instant cross your mind. Had I not
respected your person--were I not bound to you for the candour with which your noble avowal
has prevented the misery of my future life, your misfortunes would have rendered your person
as sacred, so far as I can protect it, as it could be esteemed by the most devoted royalist
in the kingdom. If your plans are soundly considered, and securely laid, think that all which
is now passed is but a dream. If they are in such a state that I can aid them, saving my duty
to the Commonwealth, which will permit me to be privy to no schemes of actual violence, your
Majesty may command my services."

"It may be I may be troublesome to you, sir," said the King; "for my fortunes are not such
as to permit me to reject even the most limited offers of assistance; but if I can, I will
dispense with applying to you. I would not willingly put any man's compassion at war with his
sense of duty on my account.--Doctor, I think there will be no farther tilting to-day, either
with sword or cane; so we may as well return to the Lodge, and leave these"--looking at Alice
and Everard--"who may have more to say in explanation."

"No--no!" exclaimed Alice, who was now perfectly come to herself, and partly by her own observation,
and partly from the report of Dr. Rochecliffe, comprehended all that had taken place--"My cousin
Everard and I have nothing to explain; he will forgive me for having riddled with him when
I dared not speak plainly; and I forgive him for having read my riddle wrong. But my father
has my promise--we must not correspond or converse for the present--I return instantly to the
Lodge, and he to Woodstock, unless you, sire," bowing to the King, "command his duty otherwise.
Instant to the town, Cousin Markham; and if danger should approach, give us warning."

Everard would have delayed her departure, would have excused himself for his unjust suspicion,
would have said a thousand things; but she would not listen to him, saying, for all other answer,--"Farewell,
Markham, till God send better days!"

"She is an angel of truth and beauty," said Roger Wildrake; "and I, like a blasphemous heretic,
called her a Lindabrides!" [Footnote: A sort of court name for a female of no reputation.]
But has your Majesty, craving your pardon, no commands for poor Hodge Wildrake, who will blow
out his own or any other man's brains in England, to do your Grace a pleasure?"

"We entreat our good friend Wildrake to do nothing hastily," said Charles, smiling; "such brains
as his are rare, and should not be rashly dispersed, as the like may not be easily collected.
We recommend him to be silent and prudent--to tilt no more with loyal clergymen of the Church
of England, and to get himself a new jacket with all convenient speed, to which we beg to contribute
our royal aid. When fit time comes, we hope to find other service for him."

As he spoke, he slid ten pieces into the hand of poor Wildrake, who, confounded with the excess
of his loyal gratitude, blubbered like a child, and would have followed the King, had not Dr.
Rochecliffe, in few words, but peremptory, insisted that he should return with his patron,
promising him he should certainly be employed in assisting the King's escape, could an opportunity
be found of using his services.

"Be so generous, reverend sir, and you bind me to you for ever," said the cavalier; "and I
conjure you not to keep malice against me on account of the foolery you wot of."

"I have no occasion, Captain Wildrake," said the Doctor, "for I think I had the best of it."

"Well, then, Doctor, I forgive you on my part: and I pray you, for Christian charity, let me
have a finger in this good service; for as I live in hope of it, rely that I shall die of disappointment."

While the Doctor and soldier thus spoke together, Charles took leave of Everard, (who remained
uncovered while he spoke to him,) with his usual grace--"I need not bid you no longer be jealous
of me," said the King; "for I presume you will scarce think of a match betwixt Alice and me,
which would be too losing a one on her side. For other thoughts, the wildest libertine could
not entertain them towards so high-minded a creature; and believe me, that my sense of her
merit did not need this last distinguished proof of her truth and loyalty. I saw enough of
her from her answers to some idle sallies of gallantry, to know with what a lofty character
she is endowed. Mr. Everard, her happiness I see depends on you, and I trust you will be the
careful guardian of it. If we can take any obstacle out of the way of your joint happiness,
be assured we will use our influence.--Farewell, sir; if we cannot be better friends, do not
at least let us entertain harder or worse thoughts of each other than we have now."

There was something in the manner of Charles that was extremely affecting; something too, in
his condition as a fugitive in the kingdom which was his own by inheritance, that made a direct
appeal to Everard's bosom--though in contradiction to the dictates of that policy which he
judged it his duty to pursue in the distracted circumstances of the country. He remained, as
we have said, uncovered; and in his manner testified the highest expression of reverence, up
to the point when such might seem a symbol of allegiance. He bowed so low as almost to approach
his lips to the hand of Charles--but he did not kiss it.--"I would rescue your person, sir,"
he said, "with the purchase of my own life. More"--He stopped short, and the King took up his
sentence where it broke off--"More you cannot do," said Charles, "to maintain an honourable
consistency--but what you have said is enough. You cannot render homage to my proffered hand
as that of a sovereign, but you will not prevent my taking yours as a friend--if you allow
me to call myself so--I am sure, as a well-wisher at least."

The generous soul of Everard was touched--He took the King's hand, and pressed it to his lips.

"Oh!" he said, "were better times to come"--

"Bind yourself to nothing, dear Everard," said the good-natured Prince, partaking his emotion--"We
reason ill while our feelings are moved. I will recruit no man to his loss, nor will I have
my fallen fortunes involve those of others, because they have humanity enough to pity my present
condition. If better times come, why we will meet again, and I hope to our mutual satisfaction.
If not, as your future father-in-law would say," (a benevolent smile came over his face, and
accorded not unmeetly with his glistening eyes,)--"If not, this parting was well made."

Everard turned away with a deep bow, almost choking under contending feelings; the uppermost
of which was a sense of the generosity with which Charles, at his own imminent risk, had cleared
away the darkness that seemed about to overwhelm his prospects of happiness for life-- mixed
with a deep sense of the perils by which he was environed. He returned to the little town,
followed by his attendant Wildrake, who turned back so often, with weeping eyes, and hands
clasped and uplifted as supplicating Heaven, that Everard was obliged to remind him that his
gestures might be observed by some one, and occasion suspicion.

The generous conduct of the King during the closing part of this remarkable scene, had not
escaped Alice's notice; and, erasing at once from her mind all resentment of Charles's former
conduct, and all the suspicions they had deservedly excited, awakened in her bosom a sense
of the natural goodness of his disposition, which permitted her to unite regard for his person,
with that reverence for his high office in which she had been educated as a portion of her
creed. She felt convinced, and delighted with the conviction, that his virtues were his own,
his libertinism the fault of education, or rather want of education, and the corrupting advice
of sycophants and flatterers. She could not know, or perhaps did not in that moment consider,
that in a soil where no care is taken to eradicate tares, they will outgrow and smother the
wholesome seed, even if the last is more natural to the soil. For, as Dr. Rochecliffe informed
her afterwards for her edification, promising, as was his custom, to explain the precise words
on some future occasion, if she would put him in mind--Virtus rectorem ducemque desiderat;
Vitia sine magistro discuntur. [Footnote: The quotations of the learned doctor and antiquary
were often left uninterpreted, though seldom incommunicated, owing to his contempt for those
who did not understand the learned languages, and his dislike to the labour of translation,
for the benefit of ladies and of country gentlemen. That fair readers and country thanes may
not on this occasion burst in ignorance, we add the meaning of the passage in the text--"Virtue
requires the aid of a governor and director; vices are learned without a teacher."] There was
no room for such reflections at present. Conscious of mutual sincerity, by a sort of intellectual
communication, through which individuals are led to understand each other better, perhaps,
in delicate circumstances, than by words, reserve and simulation appeared to be now banished
from the intercourse between the King and Alice. With manly frankness, and, at the same time,
with princely condescension, he requested her, exhausted as she was, to accept of his arm on
the way homeward, instead of that of Dr. Rochecliffe; and Alice accepted of his support with
modest humility, but without a shadow of mistrust or fear. It seemed as if the last half hour
had satisfied them perfectly with the character of each other, and that each had full conviction
of the purity and sincerity of the other's intentions.

Dr. Rochecliffe, in the meantime, had fallen some four or five paces behind; for, less light
and active than Alice, (who had, besides, the assistance of the King's support,) he was unable,
without effort and difficulty, to keep up with the pace of Charles, who then was, as we have
elsewhere noticed, one of the best walkers in England, and was sometimes apt to forget (as
great men will) that others were inferior to him in activity.

"Dear Alice," said the King, but as if the epithet were entirely fraternal, "I like your Everard
much--I would to God he were of our determination--But since that cannot be, I am sure he will
prove a generous enemy." "May it please you, sire," said Alice, modestly, but with some firmness,
"my cousin will never be your Majesty's personal enemy--and he is one of the few on whose slightest
word you may rely more than on the oath of those who profess more strongly and formally. He
is utterly incapable of abusing your Majesty's most generous and voluntary confidence."

"On my honour, I believe so, Alice," replied the King: "But oddsfish! my girl, let Majesty
sleep for the present--it concerns my safety, as I told your brother lately--Call me sir, then,
which belongs alike to king, peer, knight, and gentleman--or rather let me be wild Louis Kerneguy
again." Alice looked down, and shook her head. "That cannot be, please your Majesty."

"What! Louis was a saucy companion--a naughty presuming boy--and you cannot abide him?--Well,
perhaps you are right--But we will wait for Dr. Rochecliffe"--he said, desirous, with good-natured
delicacy, to make Alice aware that he had no purpose of engaging her in any discussion which
could recall painful ideas. They paused accordingly, and again she felt relieved and grateful.

"I cannot persuade our fair friend, Mistress Alice, Doctor," said the King, "that she must,
in prudence, forbear using titles of respect to me, while there are such very slender means
of sustaining them."

"It is a reproach to earth and to fortune," answered the divine, as fast as his recovered breath
would permit him, "that your most sacred Majesty's present condition should not accord with
the rendering of those honours which are your own by birth, and which, with God's blessing
on the efforts of your loyal subjects, I hope to see rendered to you as your hereditary right,
by the universal voice of the three kingdoms."

"True, Doctor," replied the King; "but, in the meanwhile, can you expound to Mistress Alice
Lee two lines of Horace, which I have carried in my thick head several years, till now they
have come pat to my purpose. As my canny subjects of Scotland say, If you keep a thing seven
years you are sure to find a use for it at last--Telephus--ay, so it begins--

  'Telephus et Peleus, cum pauper et exul uterque,
  Projicit ampullas et sesquipedalia verba.'"

"I will explain the passage to Mistress Alice," said the Doctor, "when she reminds me of it--or
rather," (he added, recollecting that his ordinary dilatory answer on such occasions ought
not to be returned when the order for exposition emanated from his Sovereign,) "I will repeat
a poor couplet from my own translation of the poem--

  'Heroes and kings, in exile forced to roam.
  Leave swelling phrase and seven-leagued words at home.'"

"A most admirable version, Doctor," said Charles; "I feel all its force, and particularly the
beautiful rendering of sesquipedalia verba into seven-leagued boots--words I mean--it reminds
me, like half the things I meet with in this world, of the Contes de Commere L'Oye." [Footnote:
Tales of Mother Goose.]

Thus conversing they reached the Lodge; and as the King went to his chamber to prepare for
the breakfast summons, now impending, the idea crossed his mind, "Wilmot, and Villiers, and
Killigrew, would laugh at me, did they hear of a campaign in which neither man nor woman had
been conquered--But, oddsfish! let them laugh as they will, there is something at my heart
which tells me, that for once in my life I have acted well."

That day and the next were spent in tranquillity, the King waiting impatiently for the intelligence,
which was to announce to him that a vessel was prepared somewhere on the coast. None such was
yet in readiness; but he learned that the indefatigable Albert Lee was, at great personal risk,
traversing the sea-coast from town to village, and endeavouring to find means of embarkation
among the friends of the royal cause, and the correspondents of Dr. Rochecliffe.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAPTER THE TWENTY-NINTH.

  Ruffian, let go that rude uncivil touch!
  TWO GENTLEMEN OF VERONA.

At this time we should give some account of the other actors in our drama, the interest due
to the principal personages having for some time engrossed our attention exclusively.

We are, therefore, to inform the reader, that the lingering longings of the Commissioners,
who had been driven forth of their proposed paradise of Woodstock, not by a cherub indeed,
but, as they thought, by spirits of another sort, still detained them in the vicinity. They
had, indeed, left the little borough under pretence of indifferent accommodation. The more
palpable reasons were, that they entertained some resentment against Everard, as the means
of their disappointment, and had no mind to reside where their proceedings could be overlooked
by him, although they took leave in terms of the utmost respect. They went, however, no farther
than Oxford, and remained there, as ravens, who are accustomed to witness the chase, sit upon
a tree or crag, at a little distance, and watch the disembowelling of the deer, expecting the
relics which fall to their share. Meantime, the University and City, but especially the former,
supplied them with some means of employing their various faculties to advantage, until the
expected moment, when, as they hoped, they should either be summoned to Windsor, or Woodstock
should once more be abandoned to their discretion.

Bletson, to pass the time, vexed the souls of such learned and pious divines and scholars,
as he could intrude his hateful presence upon, by sophistry, atheistical discourse, and challenges
to them to impugn the most scandalous theses. Desborough, one of the most brutally ignorant
men of the period, got himself nominated the head of a college, and lost no time in cutting
down trees, and plundering plate. As for Harrison, he preached in full uniform in Saint Mary's
Church, wearing his buff-coat, boots, and spurs, as if he were about to take the field for
the fight at Armageddon. And it was hard to say, whether the seat of Learning, Religion, and
Loyalty, as it is called by Clarendon, was more vexed by the rapine of Desborough, the cold
scepticism of Bletson, or the frantic enthusiasm of the Fifth-Monarchy Champion.

Ever and anon, soldiers, under pretence of relieving guard, or otherwise, went and came betwixt
Woodstock and Oxford, and maintained, it may be supposed, a correspondence with Trusty Tomkins,
who, though he chiefly resided in the town of Woodstock, visited the Lodge occasionally, and
to whom, therefore, they doubtless trusted for information concerning the proceedings there.

Indeed, this man Tomkins seemed by some secret means to have gained the confidence in part,
if not in whole, of almost every one connected with these intrigues. All closeted him, all
conversed with him in private; those who had the means propitiated him with gifts, those who
had not were liberal of promises. When he chanced to appear at Woodstock, which always seemed
as it were by accident--if he passed through the hall, the knight was sure to ask him to take
the foils, and was equally certain to be, after less or more resistance, victorious in the
encounter; so, in consideration of so many triumphs, the good Sir Henry almost forgave him
the sins of rebellion and puritanism. Then, if his slow and formal step was heard in the passages
approaching the gallery, Dr. Rochecliffe, though he never introduced him to his peculiar boudoir,
was sure to meet Master Tomkins in some neutral apartment, and to engage him in long conversations,
which apparently had great interest for both.

Neither was the Independent's reception below stairs less gracious than above. Joceline failed
not to welcome him with the most cordial frankness; the pasty and the flagon were put in immediate
requisition, and good cheer was the general word. The means for this, it may be observed, had
grown more plenty at Woodstock since the arrival of Dr. Rochecliffe, who, in quality of agent
for several royalists, had various sums of money at his disposal. By these funds it is likely
that Trusty Tomkins also derived his own full advantage.

In his occasional indulgence in what he called a fleshly frailty, (and for which he said he
had a privilege,) which was in truth an attachment to strong liquors, and that in no moderate
degree, his language, at other times remarkably decorous and reserved, became wild and animated.
He sometimes talked with all the unction of an old debauchee, of former exploits, such as deer-stealing,
orchard-robbing, drunken gambols, and desperate affrays in which he had been engaged in the
earlier part of his life, sung bacchanalian and amorous ditties, dwelt sometimes upon adventures
which drove Phoebe Mayflower from the company, and penetrated even the deaf ears of Dame Jellicot,
so as to make the buttery in which he held his carousals no proper place for the poor old woman.

In the middle of these wild rants, Tomkins twice or thrice suddenly ran into religious topics,
and spoke mysteriously, but with great animation, and a rich eloquence, on the happy and pre-eminent
saints, who were saints, as he termed them, indeed--Men who had stormed the inner treasure-house
of Heaven, and possessed themselves of its choicest jewels. All other sects he treated with
the utmost contempt, as merely quarrelling, as he expressed it, like hogs over a trough about
husks and acorns; under which derogatory terms, he included alike the usual rites and ceremonies
of public devotion, the ordinances of the established churches of Christianity, and the observances,
nay, the forbearances, enjoined by every class of Christians. Scarcely hearing, and not at
all understanding him, Joceline, who seemed his most frequent confidant on such occasions,
generally led him back into some strain of rude mirth, or old recollection of follies before
the Civil Wars, without caring about or endeavouring to analyze the opinion of this saint of
an evil fashion, but fully sensible of the protection which his presence afforded at Woodstock,
and confident in the honest meaning of so freespoken a fellow, to whom ale and brandy, when
better liquor was not to be come by, seemed to be principal objects of life, and who drank
a health to the King, or any one else, whenever required, provided the cup in which he was
to perform the libation were but a brimmer.

These peculiar doctrines, which were entertained by a sect sometimes termed the Family of Love,
but more commonly Ranters, had made some progress in times when such variety of religious opinions
were prevalent, that men pushed the jarring heresies to the verge of absolute and most impious
insanity. Secrecy had been enjoined on these frantic believers in a most blasphemous doctrine,
by the fear of consequences, should they come to be generally announced; and it was the care
of Master Tomkins to conceal the spiritual freedom which he pretended to have acquired, from
all whose resentment would have been stirred by his public avowal of them. This was not difficult;
for their profession of faith permitted, nay, required their occasional conformity with the
sectaries or professors of any creed which chanced to be uppermost.

Tomkins had accordingly the art to pass himself on Dr. Rochecliffe as still a zealous member
of the Church of England, though serving under the enemy's colours, as a spy in their camp;
and as he had on several times given him true and valuable intelligence, this active intriguer
was the more easily induced to believe his professions.

Nevertheless, lest this person's occasional presence at the Lodge, which there were perhaps
no means to prevent without exciting suspicion, should infer danger to the King's person, Rochecliffe,
whatever confidence he otherwise reposed in him, recommended that, if possible, the King should
keep always out of his sight, and when accidentally discovered, that he should only appear
in the character of Louis Kerneguy. Joseph Tomkins, he said, was, he really believed, Honest
Joe; but honesty was a horse which might be overburdened, and there was no use in leading our
neighbour into temptation.

It seemed as if Tomkins himself had acquiesced in this limitation of confidence exercised towards
him, or that he wished to seem blinder than he really was to the presence of this stranger
in the family. It occurred to Joceline, who was a very shrewd fellow, that once or twice, when
by inevitable accident Tomkins had met Kerneguy, he seemed less interested in the circumstance
than he would have expected from the man's disposition, which was naturally prying and inquisitive.
"He asked no questions about the young stranger," said Joceline--"God avert that he knows or
suspects too much!" But his suspicions were removed, when, in the course of their subsequent
conversation, Joseph Tomkins mentioned the King's escape from Bristol as a thing positively
certain, and named both the vessel in which, he said, he had gone off, and the master who commanded
her, seeming so convinced of the truth of the report, that Joceline judged it impossible he
could have the slightest suspicion of the reality.

Yet, notwithstanding this persuasion, and the comradeship which had been established between
them, the faithful under-keeper resolved to maintain a strict watch over his gossip Tomkins,
and be in readiness to give the alarm should occasion arise. True, he thought, he had reason
to believe that his said friend, notwithstanding his drunken and enthusiastic rants, was as
trustworthy as he was esteemed by Dr. Rochecliffe; yet still he was an adventurer, the outside
and lining of whose cloak were of different colours, and a high reward, and pardon for past
acts of malignancy, might tempt him once more to turn his tippet. For these reasons Joceline
kept a strict, though unostentatious watch over Trusty Tomkins.

We have said, that the discreet seneschal was universally well received at Woodstock, whether
in the borough or at the Lodge, and that even Joceline Joliffe was anxious to conceal any suspicions
which he could not altogether repress, under a great show of cordial hospitality. There were,
however, two individuals, who, for very different reasons, nourished personal dislike against
the individual so generally acceptable.

One was Nehemiah Holdenough, who remembered, with great bitterness of spirit, the Independent's
violent intrusion into his pulpit, and who ever spoke of him in private as a lying missionary,
into whom Satan had put a spirit of delusion; and preached, besides, a solemn sermon on the
subject of the false prophet, out of whose mouth came frogs. The discourse was highly prized
by the Mayor and most of the better class, who conceived that their minister had struck a heavy
blow at the very root of Independency. On the other hand, those of the private spirit contended,
that Joseph Tomkins had made a successful and triumphant rally, in an exhortation on the evening
of the same day, in which he proved, to the conviction of many handicraftsmen, that the passage
in Jeremiah, "The prophets prophesy falsely, and the priests bare rule by their means," was
directly applicable to the Presbyterian system of church government. The clergyman dispatched
an account of his adversary's conduct to the Reverend Master Edwards, to be inserted in the
next edition of Gangraena, as a pestilent heretic; and Tomkins recommended the parson to his
master, Desborough, as a good subject on whom to impose a round fine, for vexing the private
spirit; assuring him, at the same time, that though the minister might seem poor, yet if a
few troopers were quartered on him till the fine was paid, every rich shopkeeper's wife in
the borough would rob the till, rather than go without the mammon of unrighteousness with which
to redeem their priest from sufferance; holding, according to his expression, with Laban, "You
have taken from me my gods, and what have I more?" There was, of course, little cordiality
between the polemical disputants, when religious debate took so worldly a turn.

But Joe Tomkins was much more concerned at the evil opinion which seemed to be entertained
against him, by one whose good graces he was greatly more desirous to obtain than those of
Nehemiah Holdenough. This was no other than pretty Mistress Phoebe Mayflower, for whose conversion
he had felt a strong vocation, ever since his lecture upon Shakspeare on their first meeting
at the Lodge. He seemed desirous, however, to carry on this more serious work in private, and
especially to conceal his labours from his friend Joceline Joliffe, lest, perchance, he had
been addicted to jealousy. But it was in vain that he plied the faithful damsel, sometimes
with verses from the Canticles, sometimes with quotations from Green's Arcadia, or pithy passages
from Venus and Adonis, and doctrines of a nature yet more abstruse, from the popular work entitled
Aristotle's Masterpiece. Unto no wooing of his, sacred or profane, metaphysical or physical,
would Phoebe Mayflower seriously incline.

The maiden loved Joceline Joliffe, on the one hand; and, on the other, if she disliked Joseph
Tomkins when she first saw him, as a rebellious puritan, she had not been at all reconciled
by finding reason to regard him as a hypocritical libertine. She hated him in both capacities--never
endured his conversation when she could escape from it--and when obliged to remain, listened
to him only because she knew he had been so deeply trusted, that to offend him might endanger
the security of the family, in the service of which she had been born and bred up, and to whose
interest she was devoted. For reasons somewhat similar, she did not suffer her dislike of the
steward to become manifest before Joceline Joliffe, whose spirit, as a forester and a soldier,
might have been likely to bring matters to an arbitrement, in which the couteau de chasse and
quarterstaff of her favourite, would have been too unequally matched with the long rapier and
pistols which his dangerous rival always carried about his person. But it is difficult to blind
jealousy-- when there is any cause of doubt; and perhaps the sharp watch maintained by Joceline
on his comrade, was prompted not only by his zeal for the King's safety, but by some vague
suspicion that Tomkins was not ill disposed to poach upon his own fair manor.

Phoebe, in the meanwhile, like a prudent girl, sheltered herself as much as possible by the
presence of Goody Jellicot. Then, indeed, it is true the Independent, or whatever he was, used
to follow her with his addresses to very little purpose; for Phoebe seemed as deaf, through
wilfulness, as the old matron by natural infirmity. This indifference highly incensed her new
lover, and induced him anxiously to watch for a time and place, in which he might plead his
suit with an energy that should command attention. Fortune, that malicious goddess, who so
often ruins us by granting the very object of our vows, did at length procure him such an opportunity
as he had long coveted.

It was about sunset, or shortly after, when Phoebe, upon whose activity much of the domestic
arrangements depended, went as far as fair Rosamond's spring to obtain water for the evening
meal, or rather to gratify the prejudice of the old knight, who believed that celebrated fountain
afforded the choicest supplies of the necessary element. Such was the respect in which he was
held by his whole family, that to neglect any of his wishes that could be gratified, though
with inconvenience to themselves, would, in their estimation, have been almost equal to a breach
of religious duty.

To fill the pitcher had, we know, been of late a troublesome task; but Joceline's ingenuity
had so far rendered it easy, by repairing rudely a part of the ruined front of the ancient
fountain, that the water was collected, and trickling along a wooden spout, dropped from a
height of about two feet. A damsel was thereby enabled to place her pitcher under the slowly
dropping supply, and, without toil to herself, might wait till her vessel was filled.

Phoebe Mayflower, on the evening we allude to, saw, for the first time, this little improvement;
and, justly considering it as a piece of gallantry of her silvan admirer, designed to save
her the trouble of performing her task in a more inconvenient manner, she gratefully employed
the minutes of ease which the contrivance procured her, in reflecting on the good-nature and
ingenuity of the obliging engineer, and perhaps in thinking he might have done as wisely to
have waited till she came to the fountain, that he might have secured personal thanks for the
trouble he had taken. But then she knew he was detained in the buttery with that odious Tomkins,
and rather than have seen the Independent along with him, she would have renounced the thought
of meeting Joceline.

As she was thus reflecting, Fortune was malicious enough to send Tomkins to the fountain, and
without Joceline. When she saw his figure darken the path up which he came, an anxious reflection
came over the poor maiden's breast, that she was alone, and within the verge of the forest,
where in general persons were prohibited to come during the twilight, for fear of disturbing
the deer settling to their repose. She encouraged herself, however, and resolved to show no
sense of fear, although, as the steward approached, there was something in the man's look and
eye no way calculated to allay her apprehensions.

"The blessings of the evening upon you, my pretty maiden," he said. "I meet you even as the
chief servant of Abraham, who was a steward like myself, met Rebecca, the daughter of Bethuel,
the son of Milcah, at the well of the city of Nahor, in Mesopotamia. Shall I not, therefore,
say to you, set down thy pitcher that I may drink?"

"The pitcher is at your service, Master Tomkins," she replied, "and you may drink as much as
you will; but you have, I warrant, drank better liquor, and that not long since."

It was, indeed, obvious that the steward had arisen from a revel, for his features were somewhat
flushed, though he had stopped far short of intoxication. But Phoebe's alarm at his first appearance
was rather increased when she observed how he had been lately employed.

"I do but use my privilege, my pretty Rebecca; the earth is given to the saints, and the fulness
thereof. They shall occupy and enjoy it, both the riches of the mine, and the treasures of
the vine; and they shall rejoice, and their hearts be merry within them. Thou hast yet to learn
the privileges of the saints, my Rebecca."

"My name is Phoebe," said the maiden, in order to sober the enthusiastic rapture which he either
felt or affected.

"Phoebe after the flesh," he said, "but Rebecca being spiritualised; for art thou not a wandering
and stray sheep?--and am I not sent to fetch thee within the fold?--Wherefore else was it said,
Thou shalt find her seated by the well, in the wood which is called after the ancient harlot,
Rosamond?"

"You have found me sitting here sure enough," said Phoebe; "but if you wish to keep me company,
you must walk to the Lodge with me; and you shall carry my pitcher for me, if you will be so
kind. I will hear all the good things you have to say to me as we go along. But Sir Henry calls
for his glass of water regularly before prayers."

"What!" exclaimed Tomkins, "hath the old man of bloody hand and perverse heart sent thee hither
to do the work of a bondswoman? Verily thou shalt return enfranchised; and for the water thou
hast drawn for him, it shall be poured forth, even as David caused to be poured forth the water
of the well of Bethlehem."

So saying, he emptied the water pitcher, in spite of Phoebe's exclamations and entreaties.
He then replaced the vessel beneath the little conduit, and continued:--"Know that this shall
be a token to thee. The filling of that pitcher shall be like the running of a sand-glass;
and if within the time which shall pass ere it rises to the brim, thou shalt listen to the
words which I shall say to thee, then it shall be well with thee, and thy place shall be high
among those who, forsaking the instruction which is as milk for babes and sucklings, eat the
strong food which nourishes manhood. But if the pitcher shall overbrim with water ere thy ear
shall hear and understand, thou shalt then be given as a prey, and as a bondsmaiden, unto those
who shall possess the fat and the fair of the earth."

"You frighten me, Master Tomkins," said Phoebe, "though I am sure you do not mean to do so.
I wonder how you dare speak words so like the good words in the Bible, when you know how you
laughed at your own master, and all the rest of them--when you helped to play the hobgoblins
at the Lodge."

"Think'st thou then, thou simple fool, that in putting that deceit upon Harrison and the rest,
I exceeded my privileges?--Nay, verily.--Listen to me, foolish girl. When in former days I
lived the most wild, malignant rakehell in Oxfordshire, frequenting wakes and fairs, dancing
around May-poles, and showing my lustihood at football and cudgel-playing--Yea, when I was
called, in the language of the uncircumcised, Philip Hazeldine, and was one of the singers
in the choir, and one of the ringers in the steeple, and served the priest yonder, by name
Rochecliffe, I was not farther from the straight road than when, after long reading, I at length
found one blind guide after another, all burners of bricks in Egypt. I left them one by one,
the poor tool Harrison being the last; and by my own unassisted strength, I have struggled
forward to the broad and blessed light, whereof thou too, Phoebe, shalt be partaker."

"I thank you, Master Tomkins," said Phoebe, suppressing some fear under an appearance of indifference;
"but I shall have light enough to carry home my pitcher, would you but let me take it; and
that is all the want of light I shall have this evening."

So saying, she stooped to take the pitcher from the fountain; but he snatched hold of her by
the arm, and prevented her from accomplishing her purpose. Phoebe, however, was the daughter
of a bold forester, prompt at thoughts of self-defence; and though she missed getting hold
of the pitcher, she caught up instead a large pebble, which she kept concealed in her right hand.

"Stand up, foolish maiden, and listen," said the Independent, sternly; "and know, in one word,
that sin, for which the spirit of man is punished with the vengeance of Heaven, lieth not in
the corporal act, but in the thought of the sinner. Believe, lovely Phoebe, that to the pure
all acts are pure, and that sin is in our thought, not in our actions--even as the radiance
of the day is dark to a blind man, but seen and enjoyed by him whose eyes receive it. To him
who is but a novice in the things of the spirit, much is enjoined, much is prohibited; and
he is fed with milk fit for babes--for him are ordinances, prohibitions, and commands. But
the saint is above these ordinances and restraints.--To him, as to the chosen child of the
house, is given the pass-key to open all locks which withhold him from the enjoyment of his
heart's desire. Into such pleasant paths will I guide thee, lovely Phoebe, as shall unite in
joy, in innocent freedom, pleasures, which, to the unprivileged, are sinful and prohibited."
"I really wish, Master Tomkins, you would let me go home." said Phoebe, not comprehending the
nature of his doctrine, but disliking at once his words and his manner. He went on, however,
with the accursed and blasphemous doctrines, which, in common with others of the pretended
saints, he had adopted, after having long shifted from one sect to another, until he settled
in the vile belief, that sin, being of a character exclusively spiritual, only existed in the
thoughts, and that the worst actions were permitted to those who had attained to the pitch
of believing themselves above ordinance. "Thus, my Phoebe," he continued, endeavouring to draw
her towards him "I can offer thee more than ever was held out to woman since Adam first took
his bride by the hand. It shall be for others to stand dry-lipped, doing penance, like papists,
by abstinence, when the vessel of pleasure pours forth its delights. Dost thou love money?--I
have it, and can procure more--am at liberty to procure it on every hand, and by every means--the
earth is mine and its fulness. Do you desire power?--which of these poor cheated commissioner-fellows'
estates dost thou covet, I will work it out for thee; for I deal with a mightier spirit than
any of them. And it is not without warrant that I have aided the malignant Rochecliffe, and
the clown Joliffe, to frighten and baffle them in the guise they did. Ask what thou wilt, Phoebe,
I can give, or I can procure it for thee--Then enter with me into a life of delight in this
world, which shall prove but an anticipation of the joys of Paradise hereafter!"

Again the fanatical voluptuary endeavoured to pull the poor girl towards him, while she, alarmed,
but not scared out of her presence of mind, endeavoured, by fair entreaty, to prevail on him
to release her. But his features, in themselves not marked, had acquired a frightful expression,
and he exclaimed, "No, Phoebe--do not think to escape--thou art given to me as a captive--thou
hast neglected the hour of grace, and it has glided past--See, the water trickles over thy
pitcher, which was to be a sign between us--Therefore I will urge thee no more with words,
of which thou art not worthy, but treat thee as a recusant of offered grace."

"Master Tomkins," said Phoebe, in an imploring tone, "consider, for God's sake, I am a fatherless
child--do me no injury, it would be a shame to your strength and your manhood--I cannot understand
your fine words--I will think on them till to-morrow." Then, in rising resentment, she added
more vehemently--"I will not be used rudely--stand off, or I will do you a mischief." But,
as he pressed upon her with a violence, of which the object could not be mistaken, and endeavoured
to secure her right hand, she exclaimed, "Take it then, with a wanion to you!"--and struck
him an almost stunning blow on the face, with the pebble which she held ready for such an extremity.

The fanatic let her go, and staggered backward, half stupified; while Phoebe instantly betook
herself to flight, screaming for help as she ran, but still grasping the victorious pebble.
Irritated to frenzy by the severe blow which he had received, Tomkins pursued, with every black
passion in his soul and in his face, mingled with fear least his villany should be discovered.
He called on Phoebe loudly to stop, and had the brutality to menace her with one of his pistols
if she continued to fly. Yet she slacked not her pace for his threats, and he must either have
executed them, or seen her escape to carry the tale to the Lodge, had she not unhappily stumbled
over the projecting root of a fir-tree. But as he rushed upon his prey, rescue interposed in
the person of Joceline Joliffe, with his quarterstaff on his shoulder. "How now? what means
this?" he said, stepping between Phoebe and her pursuer. Tomkins, already roused to fury, made
no other answer than by discharging at Joceline the pistol which he held in his hand. The ball
grazed the under keeper's face, who, in requital of the assault, and saying "Aha! Let ash answer
iron," applied his quarterstaff with so much force to the Independent's head, that lighting
on the left temple, the blow proved almost instantly mortal.

A few convulsive struggles were accompanied with these broken words,-- "Joceline--I am gone--but
I forgive thee--Doctor Rochecliffe--I wish I had minded more--Oh!--the clergyman--the funeral
service"--As he uttered these words, indicative, it may be, of his return to a creed, which
perhaps he had never abjured so thoroughly as he had persuaded himself, his voice was lost
in a groan, which, rattling in the throat, seemed unable to find its way to the air. These
were the last symptoms of life: the clenched hands presently relaxed--the closed eyes opened,
and stared on the heavens a lifeless jelly--the limbs extended themselves and stiffened. The
body, which was lately animated with life, was now a lump of senseless clay--the soul, dismissed
from its earthly tenement in a moment so unhallowed, was gone before the judgment-seat.

"Oh, what have you done?--what have you done, Joceline!" exclaimed Phoebe; "you have killed
the man!"

"Better than he should have killed me," answered Joceline; "for he was none of the blinkers
that miss their mark twice running.--And yet I am sorry for him.--Many a merry bout have we
had together when he was wild Philip Hazeldine, and then he was bad enough; but since he daubed
over his vices with hypocrisy, he seems to have proved worse devil than ever."

"Oh, Joceline, come away," said poor Phoebe, "and do not stand gazing on him thus;" for the
woodsman, resting on his fatal weapon, stood looking down on the corpse with the appearance
of a man half stunned at the event.

"This comes of the ale pitcher," she continued, in the true style of female consolation, "as
I have often told you--For Heaven's sake, come to the Lodge, and let us consult what is to
be done."

"Stay first, girl, and let me drag him out of the path; we must not have him lie herein all
men's sight--Will you not help me, wench?"

"I cannot, Joceline--I would not touch a lock on him for all Woodstock."

"I must to this gear myself, then," said Joceline, who, a soldier as well as a woodsman, still
had great reluctance to the necessary task. Something in the face and broken words of the dying
man had made a deep and terrific impression on nerves not easily shaken. He accomplished it,
however, so far as to drag the late steward out of the open path, and bestow his body amongst
the undergrowth of brambles and briers, so as not to be visible unless particularly looked
for. He then returned to Phoebe, who had sate speechless all the while beneath the tree over
whose roots she had stumbled.

"Come away, wench," he said, "come away to the Lodge, and let us study how this is to be answered
for--the mishap of his being killed will strangely increase our danger. What had he sought
of thee, wench, when you ran from him like a madwoman?--But I can guess--Phil was always a
devil among the girls, and I think, as Doctor Rochecliffe says, that, since he turned saint,
he took to himself seven devils worse than himself.--Here is the very place where I saw him,
with his sword in his hand raised against the old knight, and he a child of the parish--it
was high treason at least--but, by my faith, he hath paid for it at last."

"But, oh, Joceline," said Phoebe, "how could you take so wicked a man into your counsels, and
join him in all his plots about scaring the roundhead gentlemen?"

"Why look thee, wench, I thought I knew him at the first meeting especially when Bevis, who
was bred here when he was a dog-leader, would not fly at him; and when we made up our old acquaintance
at the Lodge, I found he kept up a close correspondence with Doctor Rochecliffe, who was persuaded
that he was a good King's man, and held consequently good intelligence with him.--The doctor
boasts to have learned much through his means; I wish to Heaven he may not have been as communicative
in turn."

"Oh, Joceline," said the waiting-woman, "you should never have let him within the gate of the
Lodge!"

"No more I would, if I had known how to keep him out; but when he went so frankly into our
scheme, and told me how I was to dress myself like Robinson the player, whose ghost haunted
Harrison--I wish no ghost may haunt me!--when he taught me how to bear myself to terrify his
lawful master, what could I think, wench? I only trust the Doctor has kept the great secret
of all from his knowledge.--But here we are at the Lodge. Go to thy chamber, wench, and compose
thyself. I must seek out Doctor Rochecliffe; he is ever talking of his quick and ready invention.
Here come times, I think, that will demand it all."

Phoebe went to her chamber accordingly; but the strength arising from the pressure of danger
giving way when the danger was removed, she quickly fell into a succession of hysterical fits,
which required the constant attention of Dame Jellicot, and the less alarmed, but more judicious
care of Mistress Alice, before they even abated in their rapid recurrence.

The under-keeper carried his news to the politic Doctor, who was extremely disconcerted, alarmed,
nay angry with Joceline, for having slain a person on whose communications he had accustomed
himself to rely. Yet his looks declared his suspicion, whether his confidence had not been
too rashly conferred--a suspicion which pressed him the more anxiously, that he was unwilling
to avow it, as a derogation from his character for shrewdness, on which he valued himself.

Dr. Rochecliffe's reliance, however, on the fidelity of Tomkins, had apparently good grounds.
Before the Civil Wars, as may be partly collected from what has been already hinted at, Tomkins,
under his true name of Hazeldine, had been under the protection of the Rector of Woodstock,
occasionally acted as his clerk, was a distinguished member of his choir, and, being a handy
and ingenious fellow, was employed in assisting the antiquarian researches of Dr. Rochecliffe
through the interior of Woodstock. When he engaged in the opposite side in the Civil Wars,
he still kept up his intelligence with the divine, to whom he had afforded what seemed valuable
information from time to time. His assistance had latterly been eminently useful in aiding
the Doctor, with the assistance of Joceline and Phoebe, in contriving and executing the various
devices by which the Parliamentary Commissioners had been expelled from Woodstock. Indeed,
his services in this respect had been thought worthy of no less a reward than a present of
what plate remained at the Lodge, which had been promised to the Independent accordingly. The
Doctor, therefore, while admitting he might be a bad man, regretted him as a useful one, whose
death, if enquired after, was likely to bring additional danger on a house which danger already
surrounded, and which contained a pledge so precious.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAPTER THE THIRTIETH.

  Cassio. That thrust had been my enemy indeed,
  But that my coat is better than thou know'st.
    OTHELLO.

On the dark October night succeeding the evening on which Tomkins was slain, Colonel Everard,
besides his constant attendant Roger Wildrake, had Master Nehemiah Holdenough with him as a
guest at supper. The devotions of the evening having been performed according to the Presbyterian
fashion, a light entertainment, and a double quart of burnt claret, were placed before his
friends at nine o'clock, an hour unusually late. Master Holdenough soon engaged himself in
a polemical discourse against Sectaries and Independents, without being aware that his eloquence
was not very interesting to his principal hearer, whose ideas in the meanwhile wandered to
Woodstock and all which it contained--the Prince, who lay concealed there--his uncle--above
all, Alice Lee. As for Wildrake, after bestowing a mental curse both on Sectaries and Presbyterians,
as being, in his opinion, never a barrel the better herring, he stretched out his limbs, and
would probably have composed himself to rest, but that he as well as his patron had thoughts
which murdered sleep.

The party were waited upon by a little gipsy-looking boy, in an orange-tawny doublet, much
decayed, and garnished with blue worsted lace. The rogue looked somewhat stinted in size, but
active both in intelligence and in limb, as his black eyes seemed to promise by their vivacity.
He was an attendant of Wildrake's choice, who had conferred on him the nom de guerre of Spitfire,
and had promised him promotion so soon as his young protege, Breakfast, was fit to succeed
him in his present office. It need scarce be said that the manege was maintained entirely at
the expense of Colonel Everard, who allowed Wildrake to arrange the household very much according
to his pleasure. The page did not omit, in offering the company wine from time to time, to
accommodate Wildrake with about twice the number of opportunities of refreshing himself which
he considered it necessary to afford to the Colonel or his reverend guest.

While they were thus engaged, the good divine lost in his own argument, and the hearers in
their private thoughts, their attention was about half-past ten arrested by a knocking at the
door of the house. To those who have anxious hearts, trifles give cause of alarm.

Even a thing so simple as a knock at the door may have a character which excites apprehension.
This was no quiet gentle tap, intimating a modest intruder; no redoubled rattle, as the pompous
annunciation of some vain person; neither did it resemble the formal summons to formal business,
nor the cheerful visit of some welcome friend. It was a single blow, solemn and stern, if not
actually menacing in the sound. The door was opened by some of the persons of the house; a
heavy foot ascended the stair, a stout man entered the room, and drawing the cloak from his
face, said, "Markham Everard, I greet thee in God's name."

It was General Cromwell.

Everard, surprised and taken at unawares, endeavoured in vain to find words to express his
astonishment. A bustle occurred in receiving the General, assisting him to uncloak himself,
and offering in dumb show the civilities of reception. The General cast his keen eye around
the apartment, and fixing it first on the divine, addressed Everard as follows: "A reverend
man I see is with thee. Thou art not one of those, good Markham, who let the time unnoted and
unimproved pass away. Casting aside the things of this world--pressing forward to those of
the next--it is by thus using our time in this poor seat of terrestrial sin and care, that
we may, as it were--But how is this?" he continued, suddenly changing his tone, and speaking
briefly, sharply, and anxiously; "one hath left the room since I entered?"

Wildrake had, indeed, been absent for a minute or two, but had now returned, and stepped forward
from a bay window, as if he had been out of sight only, not out of the apartment. "Not so,
sir; I stood but in the background out of respect. Noble General, I hope all is well with the
Estate, that your Excellency makes us so late a visit? Would not your Excellency choose some"--

"Ah!" said Oliver, looking sternly and fixedly at him--"Our trusty Go-between--our faithful
confidant.--No, sir; at present I desire nothing more than a kind reception, which, methinks,
my friend Markham Everard is in no hurry to give me."

"You bring your own welcome, my lord," said Everard, compelling himself to speak. "I can only
trust it was no bad news that made your Excellency a late traveller, and ask, like my follower,
what refreshment I shall command for your accommodation."

"The state is sound and healthy, Colonel Everard," said the General; "and yet the less so,
that many of its members, who have been hitherto workers together, and propounders of good
counsel, and advancers of the public weal, have now waxed cold in their love and in their affection
for the Good Cause, for which we should be ready, in our various degrees, to act and do so
soon as we are called to act that whereunto we are appointed, neither rashly nor over-slothfully,
neither lukewarmly nor over-violently, but with such a frame and disposition, in which zeal
and charity may, as it were, meet and kiss each other in our streets. Howbeit, because we look
back after we have put our hand to the plough, therefore is our force waxed dim."

"Pardon me, sir," said Nehemiah Holdenough, who, listening with some impatience, began to guess
in whose company he stood--"Pardon me, for unto this I have a warrant to speak."

"Ah! ah!" said Cromwell. "Surely, most worthy sir, we grieve the Spirit when we restrain those
pourings forth, which, like water from a rock"--

"Nay, therein I differ from you, sir," said Holdenough; "for as there is the mouth to transmit
the food, and the profit to digest what Heaven hath sent; so is the preacher ordained to teach
and the people to hear; the shepherd to gather the flock into the sheepfold, the sheep to profit
by the care of the shepherd."

"Ah! my worthy sir," said Cromwell, with much unction, "methinks you verge upon the great mistake,
which supposes that churches are tall large houses built by masons, and hearers are men--wealthy
men, who pay tithes, the larger as well as the less; and that the priests, men in black gowns
or grey cloaks, who receive the same, are in guerdon the only distributors of Christian blessings;
whereas, in my apprehension, there is more of Christian liberty in leaving it to the discretion
of the hungry soul to seek his edification where it can be found, whether from the mouth of
a lay teacher, who claimeth his warrant from Heaven alone, or at the dispensation of those
who take ordinations and degrees from synods and universities, at best but associations of
poor sinful creatures like themselves."

"You speak you know not what, sir," replied Holdenough, impatiently. "Can light come out of
darkness, sense out of ignorance, or knowledge of the mysteries of religion from such ignorant
mediciners as give poisons instead of wholesome medicaments, and cram with filth the stomachs
of such as seek to them for food?" This, which the Presbyterian divine uttered rather warmly,
the General answered with the utmost mildness.

"Lack-a-day, lack-a-day! a learned man, but intemperate; over-zeal hath eaten him up.--A well-a-day,
sir, you may talk of your regular gospel-meals, but a word spoken in season by one whose heart
is with your heart, just perhaps when you are riding on to encounter an enemy, or are about
to mount a breach, is to the poor spirit like a rasher on the coals, which the hungry shall
find preferable to a great banquet, at such times when the full soul loatheth the honey-comb.
Nevertheless, although I speak thus in my poor judgment, I would not put force on the conscience
of any man, leaving to the learned to follow the learned, and the wise to be instructed by
the wise, while poor simple wretched souls are not to be denied a drink from the stream which
runneth by the way.--Ay, verily, it will be a comely sight in England when men shall go on
as in a better world, bearing with each other's infirmities, joining in each other's comforts.--Ay,
truly, the rich drink out of silver flagons, and goblets of silver, the poor out of paltry
bowls of wood--and even so let it be, since they both drink the same element."

Here an officer opened the door and looked in, to whom Cromwell, exchanging the canting drawl,
in which it seemed he might have gone on interminably, for the short brief tone of action,
called out, "Pearson, is he come?"

"No, sir," replied Pearson; "we have enquired for him at the place you noted, and also at other
haunts of his about the town."

"The knave!" said Cromwell, with bitter emphasis; "can he have proved false?--No, no, his interest
is too deeply engaged. We shall find him by and by. Hark thee hither."

While this conversation was going forward, the reader must imagine the alarm of Everard. He
was certain that the personal attendance of Cromwell must be on some most important account,
and he could not but strongly suspect that the General had some information respecting Charles's
lurking place. If taken, a renewal of the tragedy of the 30th of January was instantly to be
apprehended, and the ruin of the whole family of Lee, with himself probably included, must
be the necessary consequence.

He looked eagerly for consolation at Wildrake, whose countenance expressed much alarm, which
he endeavoured to bear out with his usual look of confidence. But the weight within was too
great; he shuffled with his feet, rolled his eyes, and twisted his hands, like an unassured
witness before an acute and not to be deceived judge.

Oliver, meanwhile, left his company not a minute's leisure to take counsel together. Even while
his perplexed eloquence flowed on in a stream so mazy that no one could discover which way
its course was tending, his sharp watchful eye rendered all attempts of Everard to hold communication
with Wildrake, even by signs, altogether vain. Everard, indeed, looked for an instant at the
window, then glanced at Wildrake, as if to hint there might be a possibility to escape that
way. But the cavalier had replied with a disconsolate shake of the head, so slight as to be
almost imperceptible. Everard, therefore, lost all hope, and the melancholy feeling of approaching
and inevitable evil, was only varied by anxiety concerning the shape and manner in which it
was about to make its approach.

But Wildrake had a spark of hope left. The very instant Cromwell entered he had got out of
the room, and down to the door of the house. "Back-- back!" repeated by two armed sentinels,
convinced him that, as his fears had anticipated, the General had come neither unattended nor
unprepared. He turned on his heel, ran up stairs, and meeting on the landing-place the boy
whom he called Spitfire, hurried him into the small apartment which he occupied as his own.
Wildrake had been shooting that morning, and game lay on the table. He pulled a feather from
a woodcock's wing, and saying hastily, "For thy life, Spitfire, mind my orders--I will put
thee safe out at the window into the court--the yard wall is not high--and there will be no
sentry there--Fly to the Lodge, as thou wouldst win Heaven, and give this feather to Mistress
Alice Lee, if possible--if not, to Joceline Joliffe--say I have won the wages of the young
lady. Dost mark me, boy?"

The sharp-witted youth clapped his hand in his master's, and only replied, "Done, and done."

Wildrake opened the window, and, though the height was considerable, he contrived to let the
boy down safely by holding his cloak. A heap of straw on which Spitfire lighted rendered the
descent perfectly safe, and Wildrake saw him scramble over the wall of the court-yard, at the
angle which bore on a back lane; and so rapidly was this accomplished, that the cavalier had
just re-entered the room, when, the bustle attending Cromwell's arrival subsiding, his own
absence began to be noticed.

He remained during Cromwell's lecture on the vanity of creeds, anxious in mind whether he might
not have done better to send an explicit verbal message, since there was no time to write.
But the chance of the boy being stopped, or becoming confused with feeling himself the messenger
of a hurried and important communication, made him, on the whole, glad that he had preferred
a more enigmatical way of conveying the intelligence. He had, therefore, the advantage of his
patron, for he was conscious still of a spark of hope.

Pearson had scarce shut the door, when Holdenough, as ready in arms against the future Dictator
as he had been prompt to encounter the supposed phantoms and fiends of Woodstock, resumed his
attack upon the schismatics, whom he undertook to prove to be at once soul-slayers, false brethren,
and false messengers; and was proceeding to allege texts in behalf of his proposition, when
Cromwell, apparently tired of the discussion, and desirous to introduce a discourse more accordant
with his real feelings, interrupted him, though very civilly, and took the discourse into his
own hands.

"Lack-a-day," he said, "the good man speaks truth, according to his knowledge and to his lights,--ay,
bitter truths, and hard to be digested, while we see as men see, and not with the eyes of angels.--
False messengers, said the reverend man?--ay, truly, the world is full of such. You shall see
them who will carry your secret message to the house of your mortal foe, and will say to him,
'Lo! my master is going forth with a small train, by such and such desolate places; be you
speedy, therefore, that you may arise and slay him.' And another, who knoweth where the foe
of your house, and enemy of your person, lies hidden, shall, instead of telling his master
thereof, carry tidings to the enemy even where he lurketh, saying, 'Lo! my master knoweth of
your secret abode--up now, and fly, lest he come on thee like a lion on his prey.'--But shall
this go without punishment?" looking at Wildrake with a withering glance. "Now, as my soul
liveth, and as He liveth who hath made me a ruler in Israel, such false messengers shall be
knitted to gibbets on the wayside, and their right hands shall be nailed above their heads,
in an extended position, as if pointing out to others the road from which they themselves have
strayed!"

"Surely," said Master Holdenough, "it is right to cut off such offenders."

"Thank ye, Mass-John," muttered Wildrake; "when did the Presbyterian fail to lend the devil
a shove?"

"But, I say," continued Holdenough, "that the matter is estranged from our present purpose,
for the false brethren of whom I spoke are"--

"Right, excellent sir, they be those of our own house," answered Cromwell; "the good man is
right once more. Ay, of whom can we now say that he is a true brother, although he has lain
in the same womb with us? Although we have struggled in the same cause, eat at the same table,
fought in the same battle, worshipped at the same throne, there shall be no truth in him.--Ah,
Markham Everard, Markham Everard!"

He paused at this ejaculation; and Everard, desirous at once of knowing how far he stood committed,
replied, "Your Excellency seems to have something in your mind in which I am concerned. May
I request you will speak it out, that I may know what I am accused of?"

"Ah, Mark, Mark," replied the General, "there needeth no accuser speak when the still small
voice speaks within us. Is there not moisture on thy brow, Mark Everard? Is there not trouble
in thine eye? Is there not a failure in thy frame? And who ever saw such things in noble and
stout Markham Everard, whose brow was only moist after having worn the helmet for a summer's
day; whose hand only shook when it had wielded for hours the weighty falchion?--But go to,
man! thou doubtest over much. Hast thou not been to me as a brother, and shall I not forgive
thee even the seventy-seventh time? The knave hath tarried somewhere, who should have done
by this time an office of much import. Take advantage of his absence, Mark; it is a grace that
God gives thee beyond expectance. I do not say, fall at my feet; but speak to me as a friend
to his friend."

"I have never said any thing to your Excellency that was in the least undeserving the title
you have assigned to me," said Colonel Everard, proudly.

"Nay, nay, Markham," answered Cromwell; "I say not you have. But--but you ought to have remembered
the message I sent you by that person" (pointing to Wildrake;) "and you must reconcile it with
your conscience, how, having such a message, guarded with such reasons, you could think yourself
at liberty to expel my friends from Woodstock, being determined to disappoint my object, whilst
you availed yourself of the boon, on condition of which my warrant was issued."

Everard was about to reply, when, to his astonishment, Wildrake stepped forward; and with a
voice and look very different from his ordinary manner, and approaching a good deal to real
dignity of mind, said, boldly and calmly, "You are mistaken, Master Cromwell; and address yourself
to the wrong party here."

The speech was so sudden and intrepid that Cromwell stepped a pace back, and motioned with
his right hand towards his weapon, as if he had expected that an address of a nature so unusually
bold was to be followed by some act of violence. He instantly resumed his indifferent posture;
and, irritated at a smile which he observed on Wildrake's countenance, he said, with the dignity
of one long accustomed to see all tremble before him, "This to me, fellow! Know you to whom
you speak?"

"Fellow!" echoed Wildrake, whose reckless humour was now completely set afloat--"No fellow
of yours, Master Oliver. I have known the day when Roger Wildrake of Squattlesea-mere, Lincoln,
a handsome young gallant, with a good estate, would have been thought no fellow of the bankrupt
brewer of Huntingdon."

"Be silent!" said Everard; "be silent, Wildrake, if you love your life!"

"I care not a maravedi for my life," said Wildrake. "Zounds, if he dislikes what I say, let
him take to his tools! I know, after all, he hath good blood in his veins! and I will indulge
him with a turn in the court yonder, had he been ten times a brewer."

"Such ribaldry, friend," said Oliver, "I treat with the contempt it deserves. But if thou hast
any thing to say touching the matter in question speak out like a man, though thou look'st
more like a beast."

"All I have to say is," replied Wildrake, "that whereas you blame Everard for acting on your
warrant, as you call it, I can tell you he knew not a word of the rascally conditions you talk
of. I took care of that; and you may take the vengeance on me, if you list."

"Slave! dare you tell this to me?" said Cromwell, still heedfully restraining his passion,
which he felt was about to discharge itself upon an unworthy object.

"Ay, you will make every Englishman a slave, if you have your own way," said Wildrake, not
a whit abashed;--for the awe which had formerly overcome him when alone with this remarkable
man, had vanished, now that they were engaged in an altercation before witnesses.--"But do
your worst, Master Oliver; I tell you beforehand, the bird has escaped you."

"You dare not say so!--Escaped?--So ho! Pearson! tell the soldiers to mount instantly.--Thou
art a lying fool!--Escaped?--Where, or from whence?"

"Ay, that is the question," said Wildrake; "for look you, sir--that men do go from hence is
certain--but how they go, or to what quarter"--

Cromwell stood attentive, expecting some useful hint from the careless impetuosity of the cavalier,
upon the route which the King might have taken.

--"Or to what quarter, as I said before, why, your Excellency, Master Oliver, may e'en find
that out yourself."

As he uttered the last words he unsheathed his rapier, and made a full pass at the General's
body. Had his sword met no other impediment than the buff jerkin, Cromwell's course had ended
on the spot. But, fearful of such attempts, the General wore under his military dress a shirt
of the finest mail, made of rings of the best steel, and so light and flexible that it was
little or no encumbrance to the motions of the wearer. It proved his safety on this occasion,
for the rapier sprung in shivers; while the owner, now held back by Everard and Holdenough,
flung the hilt with passion on the ground, exclaiming, "Be damned the hand that forged thee!--To
serve me so long, and fail me when thy true service would have honoured us both for ever! But
no good could come of thee, since thou wert pointed, even in jest, at a learned divine of the
Church of England."

In the first instant of alarm,--and perhaps suspecting Wildrake might be supported by others,
Cromwell half drew from his bosom a concealed pistol, which he hastily returned, observing
that both Everard and the clergyman were withholding the cavalier from another attempt.

Pearson and a soldier or two rushed in--"Secure that fellow," said the General, in the indifferent
tone of one to whom imminent danger was too familiar to cause irritation--"Bind him--but not
so hard, Pearson;"--for the men, to show their zeal, were drawing their belts, which they used
for want of cords, brutally tight round Wildrake's limbs. "He would have assassinated me, but
I would reserve him for his fit doom."

"Assassinated!--I scorn your words, Master Oliver," said Wildrake; "I proffered you a fair duello."

"Shall we shoot him in the street, for an example?" said Pearson to Cromwell; while Everard
endeavoured to stop Wildrake from giving further offence.

"On your life harm him not; but let him be kept in safe ward, and well looked after," said
Cromwell; while the prisoner exclaimed to Everard, "I prithee let me alone--I am now neither
thy follower, nor any man's, and I am as willing to die as ever I was to take a cup of liquor.--And
hark ye, speaking of that, Master Oliver, you were once a jolly fellow, prithee let one of
thy lobsters here advance yonder tankard to my lips, and your Excellency shall hear a toast,
a song, and a--secret."

"Unloose his head, and hand the debauched beast the tankard," said Oliver; "while yet he exists,
it were shame to refuse him the element he lives in."

"Blessings on your head for once," said Wildrake, whose object in continuing this wild discourse
was, if possible, to gain a little delay, when every moment was precious. "Thou hast brewed
good ale, and that's warrant for a blessing. For my toast and my song, here they go together--

  Son of a witch,
  Mayst thou die in a ditch,
    With the hutchers who back thy quarrels;
  And rot above ground,
  While the world shall resound
    A welcome to Royal King Charles.

And now for my secret, that you may not say I had your liquor for nothing--I fancy my song
will scarce pass current for much--My secret is, Master Cromwell--that the bird is flown--and
your red nose will be as white as your winding-sheet before you can smell out which way."

"Pshaw, rascal," answered Cromwell, contemptuously, "keep your scurrile jests for the gibbet foot."

"I shall look on the gibbet more boldly," replied Wildrake, "than I have seen you look on the
Royal Martyr's picture."

This reproach touched Cromwell to the very quick.--"Villain!" he exclaimed; "drag him hence,
draw out a party, and--But hold, not now--to prison with him--let him be close watched, and
gagged, if he attempts to speak to the sentinels--Nay, hold--I mean, put a bottle of brandy
into his cell, and he will gag himself in his own way, I warrant you--When day comes, that
men can see the example, he shall be gagged after my fashion."

During the various breaks in his orders, the General was evidently getting command of his temper;
and though he began in fury, he ended with the contemptuous sneer of one who overlooks the
abusive language of an inferior. Something remained on his mind notwithstanding, for he continued
standing, as if fixed to the same spot in the apartment, his eyes bent on the ground, and with
closed hand pressed against his lips, like a man who is musing deeply. Pearson, who was about
to speak to him, drew back, and made a sign to those in the room to be silent.

Master Holdenough did not mark, or, at least, did not obey it. Approaching the General, he
said, in a respectful but firm tone, "Did I understand it to be your Excellency's purpose that
this poor man shall die next morning?"

"Hah!" exclaimed Cromwell, starting from his reverie, "what say'st thou?"

"I took leave to ask, if it was your will that this unhappy man should die to-morrow?"

"Whom saidst thou?" demanded Cromwell: "Markham Everard--shall he die, saidst thou?"

"God forbid!" replied Holdenough, stepping back--"I asked whether this blinded creature, Wildrake,
was to be so suddenly cut off?"

"Ay, marry is he," said Cromwell, "were the whole General Assembly of Divines at Westminster--the
whole Sanhedrim of Presbytery--to offer bail for him."

"If you will not think better of it, sir," said Holdenough, "at least give not the poor man
the means of destroying his senses--Let me go to him as a divine, to watch with him, in case
he may yet be admitted into the vineyard at the latest hour--yet brought into the sheepfold,
though he has neglected the call of the pastor till time is wellnigh closed upon him."

"For God's sake," said Everard, who had hitherto kept silence, because he knew Cromwell's temper
on such occasions, "think better of what you do!"

"Is it for thee to teach me?" replied Cromwell; "think thou of thine own matters, and believe
me it will require all thy wit.--And for you, reverend sir, I will have no father-confessors
attend my prisoners--no tales out of school. If the fellow thirsts after ghostly comfort, as
he is much more like to thirst after a quartern of brandy, there is Corporal Humgudgeon, who
commands the corps de garde, will preach and pray as well as the best of ye.--But this delay
is intolerable--Comes not this fellow yet?"

"No, sir," replied Pearson. "Had we not better go down to the Lodge? The news of our coming
hither may else get there before us."

"True," said Cromwell, speaking aside to his officer, "but you know Tomkins warned us against
doing so, alleging there were so many postern-doors, and sallyports, and concealed entrances
in the old house, that it was like a rabbit-warren, and that an escape might be easily made
under our very noses, unless he were with us, to point out all the ports which should be guarded.
He hinted, too, that he might be delayed a few minutes after his time of appointment--but we
have now waited half-an-hour."

"Does your Excellency think Tomkins is certainly to be depended upon?" said Pearson.

"As far as his interest goes, unquestionably," replied the General. "He has ever been the pump
by which I have sucked the marrow out of many a plot, in special those of the conceited fool
Rochecliffe, who is goose enough to believe that such a fellow as Tomkins would value any thing
beyond the offer of the best bidder. And yet it groweth late--I fear we must to the Lodge without
him--Yet, all things well considered, I will tarry here till midnight.--Ah! Everard, thou mightest
put this gear to rights if thou wilt! Shall some foolish principle of fantastic punctilio have
more weight with thee, man, than have the pacification and welfare of England; the keeping
of faith to thy friend and benefactor, and who will be yet more so, and the fortune and security
of thy relations? Are these, I say, lighter in the balance than the cause of a worthless boy,
who, with his father and his father's house, have troubled Israel for fifty years?"

"I do not understand your Excellency, nor at what service you point, which I can honestly render,"
replied Everard. "That which is dishonest I should be loth that you proposed."

"Then this at least might suit your honesty, or scrupulous humour, call it which thou wilt,"
said Cromwell. "Thou knowest, surely, all the passages about Jezebel's palace down yonder?--Let
me know how they may be guarded against the escape of any from within."

"I cannot pretend to aid you in this matter," said Everard; "I know not all the entrances and
posterns about Woodstock, and if I did, I am not free in conscience to communicate with you
on this occasion."

"We shall do without you, sir," replied Cromwell, haughtily; "and if aught is found which may
criminate you, remember you have lost right to my protection."

"I shall be sorry," said Everard, "to have lost your friendship, General; but I trust my quality
as an Englishman may dispense with the necessity of protection from any man. I know no law
which obliges me to be spy or informer, even if I were in the way of having opportunity to
do service in either honourable capacity."

"Well, sir," said Cromwell, "for all your privileges and qualities, I will make bold to take
you down to the Lodge at Woodstock to-night, to enquire into affairs in which the State is
concerned.--Come hither, Pearson." He took a paper from his pocket, containing a rough sketch
or ground-plan of Woodstock Lodge, with the avenues leading to it.--"Look here," he said, "we
must move in two bodies on foot, and with all possible silence--thou must march to the rear
of the old house of iniquity with twenty file of men, and dispose them around it the wisest
thou canst. Take the reverend man there along with you. He must be secured at any rate, and
may serve as a guide. I myself will occupy the front of the Lodge, and thus having stopt all
the earths, thou wilt come to me for farther orders--silence and dispatch is all.--But for
the dog Tomkins, who broke appointment with me, he had need render a good excuse, or woe to
his father's son!--Reverend sir, be pleased to accompany that officer.--Colonel Everard, you
are to follow me; but first give your sword to Captain Pearson, and consider yourself as under
arrest."

