This woman, as I said, was a Samaritan sinner, a sinner of the worst complexion; for the Jews
abhorred to have ought to do with them (verse 9), wherefore none more fit than she to be made
one of the decoys of heaven, to bring others of these Samaritan wild-fowls under the net of
the grace of Christ; and she did the work to purpose. Many, and many more of the Samaritans
believed on him (verse 40-42). The heart of man, though set on sin, will, when it comes once
to a persuasion that God is willing to have mercy upon us, incline to come to Jesus Christ
for life. Witness those turn-aways from God that you also read of in Jeremiah; for after they
had heard, three or four times over, that God had mercy for backsliders, they broke out, and
said, 'Behold, we come unto thee; for thou art the Lord our God.' (Jer 3:22); or, as those
in Hosea did, 'For in thee the fatherless findeth mercy' (Hosea 14:1-3).

Mercy, and the revelation thereof, is the only antidote against sin. 'Tis of a thawing nature;
'twill loose the heart that is frozen up in sin; yea, 'twill make the unwilling willing to
come to Jesus Christ for life. Wherefore, do you think, was it that Jesus Christ told the adulterous
woman, and that before so many sinners, that he had not condemned her, but to allure her, with
them there present, to hope to find favour at his hands? As he also saith, in another place,
'I came not to judge, but to save the world.' For might they not thence most rationally conclude,
that if Jesus Christ had rather save than damn an harlot, there was encouragement for them
[although great sinners] to come to him for mercy.

I heard once a story from a soldier, who, with his company, had laid siege against a fort,
that so long as the besieged were persuaded their foes would show them no favour, they fought
like madmen; but when they saw one of their fellows taken, and received to favour, they all
came tumbling down from their fortress, and delivered themselves into their enemies' hands.
I am persuaded, did men believe that there is that grace and willingness in the heart of Christ
to save sinners, as the Word imports there is, they would come tumbling into his arms: but
Satan has blinded their minds that they cannot see this thing. Howbeit, the Lord Jesus has,
as I said, that others might take heart and come to him, given out a commandment, that mercy
should, in the first place, be offered to the biggest sinners. 'Begin,' saith he, 'at Jerusalem';
and thus I end the third reason.

Fourth, Jesus Christ would have mercy offered, in the first place, to biggest sinners, because
that is the way, if they receive it, most to weaken the kingdom of Satan, and to keep it lowest
in every age of the world. Wherefore, let these first be conquered, and his kingdom will be
weak. When Ishbosheth had lost his Abner, the kingdom was made weak, nor did he sit but tottering
then upon his throne. So, when Satan loseth his strong men, them that are mighty to work iniquity,
and dexterous to manage others in the same, then is his kingdom weak (2 Sam 3). Therefore,
I say, Christ, and doth offer mercy, in the first place, to such, the more to weaken his kingdom.
Christ Jesus was glad to see Satan fall like lightning from heaven; that is, suddenly, or head-long;
and it was, surely, by casting of him out of strong possession, and by recovering of some notorious
sinners out of his clutches (Luke 10:17-19).

Samson, when he would pull down the Philistines' temple, took hold of the two main pillars
of it, and, breaking them, down came the house. Christ came to destroy the works of the devil,
and to destroy by converting grace, as well as by redeeming blood. Now, sin swarms, and lieth
by legions, and whole armies, in the souls of the biggest sinners, as in garrisons;14 wherefore,
the way, the most direct way, to destroy it, is first to deal with such sinners by the word
of his gospel, and by the merits of his passion.

For example, though I shall give you but a homely one; suppose a family to be very lousy, and
one or two of the family to be in chief the breeders, the way, the quickest way, to clean that
family, or at least to weaken the so swarming of those vermin, is, in the first place, to sweeten
the skin, head, and clothes of the chief breeders; and then, though all the family should be
apt to breed them, the number of them, and so the greatness of that plague there, will be the
more impaired. Why, there are some people that are in chief the devil's sin-breeders in the
towns and places where they live. The place, town, or family where they live, must needs be
horribly lousy, and, as it were, eaten up with vermin. Now, let the Lord Jesus, in the first
place, cleanse these great breeders, and there will be given a nip to those swarms of sins
that used to be committed in such places throughout the town, house, or family, where such
sin-breeding persons used to be.

I speak by experience. I was one of these lousy ones, one of these great sin-breeders; I infected
all the youth of the town where I was born, with all manner of youthful vanities. They also
gave their various opinions of me; but, as I said, sin cooled, and failed, as to his full career.
When I went out to seek the bread of life, some of them would follow, and the rest be put into
a muse 15 at home. Yea, almost the town, at first, at times would go out to hear at the place
where I found good; yea, young and old for a while had some reformation on them; also some
of them, perceiving that God had mercy upon me, came crying to him for mercy too.

But what need I give you an instance of poor I; I will come to Manasseh the king. So long as
he was a ringleading sinner, the great idolater, and chief for devilism, the whole land flowed
with wickedness; for he made them to sin (2 Chron 33), and do worse than the heathen that dwelt
round about them, or that was cast out from before them: but when God converted him, the whole
land was reformed. Down went the groves, the idols, and altars of Baal, and up went true religion
in much of the power and purity of it. You will say, The king reformed by power. I answer,
doubtless, and by example too; for people observe their leaders; as their fathers did, so did
they (2 Kings 17:41).

And do you not think now, that if God would but take hold of the hearts of some of the most
notorious in your town, in your family, or country, that this thing would be verified before
your faces? It would, it would, to the joy of you that are godly, to the making of hell to
sigh, to the great suppressing of sin, the glory of Christ, and the joy of the angels of God.16
And ministers, should, therefore, that this work might go on, take advantages to persuade with
the biggest sinners to come into Christ, according to my text, and their commission, 'Beginning
at Jerusalem.'

Fifth, Jesus Christ would have mercy offered, in the first place, to the biggest sinners, because
such, when converted, are usually the best helps in the church against temptations, and fittest
for the support of the feeble-minded there.

Hence, usually, you have some such in the first plantation of churches, or quickly upon it.
Churches would do but sorrily, if Christ Jesus did not put such converts among them; they are
the monuments and mirrors of mercy. The very sight of such a sinner in God's house, yea, the
very thought of him, where the sight of him cannot be had, is ofttimes greatly for the help
of the faith of the feeble.

When the churches, saith Paul, that were in Judea, heard this concerning me, that he which
persecuted them in time past, now preached the faith which once he destroyed, 'they glorified
God in me' (Gal 1:20-24). 'Glorified God.' How is that? Why, they praised him, and took courage
to believe the more in the mercy of God; for that he had had mercy on such a great sinner as
he. They glorified God 'in me'; they wondered that grace should be so rich, as to take hold
of such a wretch as I was; and for my sake believed in Christ the more.

There are two things that great sinners are acquainted with, when they come to divulge them
to the saints, that are a great relief to their faith. 1. The contests that they usually have
with the devil at their parting with him. 2. Their knowledge of his secrets in his workings.

1. For first, The biggest sinners17 have usually great contests with the devil at their partings;
and this is an help to saints: for ordinary saints find afterwards what the vile ones find
at first, but when, at the opening of hearts, the one finds himself to be as the other--the
one is a comfort to the other. The lesser sort of sinners find but little of this, till after
they have been some time in profession; but the vile man meets with his at the beginning. Wherefore
he, when the other is down, is ready to tell that he has met with the same before; for, I say,
he has had it before.

2.

I might also here tell you of the contests and battles that such are engaged in, wherein they
find the buffetings of Satan, above any other of the saints. But, as I said, when these come
a little to be settled, they are prepared for helps for others, and are great comforts unto
them. Their great sins give encouragement to the devil to assault them; and by these temptations
Christ takes advantage to make them the more helpful to the churches.

The biggest sinner, when he is converted, and comes into the church, says to them all, by his
very coming in, Behold me, all you that are men and women of a low and timorous spirit, you
whose hearts are narrow, for that you never had the advantage to know, because your sins are
few, the largeness of the grace of God. Behold, I say, in me, the exceeding riches of his grace!
I am a pattern set forth before your faces, on whom you may look and take heart. This, I say,
the great sinner can say, to the exceeding comfort of all the rest. Wherefore, as I have hinted
before, when God intends to stock a place with saints, and to make that place excellently to
flourish with the riches of his grace, he usually begins with the conversion of some of the
most notorious thereabouts, and lays them, as an example, to allure others, and to build up
when they are converted. It was Paul that must go to the Gentiles, because Paul was the most
outrageous of all the apostles, in the time of his unregeneracy. Yea, Peter must be he, that
after his horrible fall, was thought fittest, when recovered again, to comfort and strengthen
his brethren (See Luke 22:31,32).

Some must be pillars in God's house; and if they be pillars of cedar, they must stand while
they are stout and sturdy sticks in the forest, before they are cut down, and planted or placed
there. No man, when he buildeth his house, makes the principal parts thereof of weak or feeble
timber; for how could such bear up the rest? but of great and able wood. Christ Jesus also
goeth this way to work; he makes of the biggest sinners bearers and supporters to the rest.

This agrees both with scripture and reason. Scripture says so. To whom much is forgiven, the
same loveth much. 'To whom little is forgiven, the same loveth little' (Luke 7:47). Reason
says so: for as it would be the unreasonablest thing in the world to render hatred for love,
and contempt for forgiveness; so it would be as ridiculous to think, that the reception of
a little kindness should lay the same obligations upon the heart to love as the reception of
a great deal. I would not disparage the love of Christ; I know the least drachm of it, when
it reaches to forgiveness, is great above all the world; but comparatively, there are greater
extensions of the love of Christ to one than to another. He that has most sin, if. forgiven,
is partaker of the greatest love, of the greatest forgiveness.

I know also, that there are some, that from this very doctrine say, 'Let us do evil that good
may come'; and that turn the grace of our God into lasciviousness. But I speak not of these;
these will neither be ruled by grace nor reason. Grace would teach them, if they knew it, to
deny ungodly courses; and so would reason too, if it could truly sense the love of God (Titus
2:11,12; Rom 12:1).

Doth it look like what hath any coherence with reason or mercy, for a man to abuse his friend?
Because Christ died for me, shall I therefore spit in his face? The bread and water that was
given by Elisha to his enemies, that came into the land of Israel to take him, had so much
influence upon their minds, though heathens, that they returned to their homes without hurting
him; yea, it kept them from coming again in a hostile manner into the coasts of Israel (2 Kings
6:19-23).

But to forbear to illustrate, till anon. One reason why Christ Jesus shows mercy to sinners,
is, that he might obtain their love, that he may remove their base affections from base objects
to himself. Now, if he loves to be loved a little, he loves to be loved much; but there is
not any that are capable of loving much, save those that have much forgiven them. Hence it
is said of Paul, that he laboured more than them all; to wit, with a labour of love, because
he had been by sin more vile against Christ than they all (1 Cor 15). He it was that 'persecuted
the church of God, and wasted it' (Gal 1:13). He of them all was the only raving bedlam against
the saints. 'And being exceeding mad,' says he, 'against them, I persecuted them even unto
strange cities' (Acts 26:11). This raving bedlam, that once was so, is he that now says, I
laboured more than them all, more for Christ than them all. But Paul, what moved thee thus
to do? The love of Christ, says he. It was not I, but the grace of God that was with me. As
who should say, O grace! It was such grace to save me! It was such marvellous grace for God
to look down from heaven upon me, and that secured me from the wrath to come, that I am captivated
with the sense of the riches of it. Hence I act, hence I labour; for how can I otherwise do,
since God not only separated me from my sins and companions, but separated all the powers of
my soul and body to his service? I am, therefore, prompted on by this exceeding love to labour
as I have done; yet not I, but the grace of God with me. Oh! I shall never forget his love,
nor the circumstances under which I was, when his love laid hold upon me. I was going to Damascus
with letters from the high-priest, to make havoc of God's people there, as I had made havoc
of them in other places. These bloody letters were not imposed upon me. I went to the high-priest
and desired them of him, and yet he saved me! (Acts 9:1,2). I was one of the men, of the chief
men, that had a hand in the blood of his martyr Stephen; yet he had mercy upon me! When I was
at Damascus, I stunk19 so horribly like a blood-sucker, that I became a terror to all thereabout.
Yea, Ananias, good man, made intercession to my Lord against me; yet he would have mercy upon
me, yea, joined mercy to mercy, until he had made me a monument of grace. He made a saint of
me, and persuaded me that my transgressions were forgiven me.

When I began to preach, those that heard me were amazed, and said, 'Is not this he that destroyed
them that called on this name in Jerusalem, and came hither for that intent, that he might
bring them bound to the high-priest?' Hell doth know that I was a sinner; heaven doth know
that I was a sinner; the world also knows that I was a sinner, a sinner of the greatest size;
but I obtained mercy (Acts 9:20,21). Shall not this lay obligation upon me? Is not love of
the greatest force to oblige? Is it not strong as death, cruel as the grave, and hotter than
the coals of juniper? Hath it not a most vehement flame? Can the waters quench it? can the
floods drown it? I a m under the force of it, and this is my continual cry, What shall I render
to the Lord for all the benefits which he has bestowed upon me?

Aye, Paul! this is something; thou speakest like a man, like a man affected, and carried away
with the love and grace of God. Now, this sense, and this affection, and this labour, giveth
to Christ the love that he looks for. But he might have converted twenty little sinners, and
yet not found, for grace bestowed, so much love in them all. I wonder how far a man might go
among the converted sinners of the smaller size, before he could find one that so much as looked
anything this way ward. Where is he that is thus under pangs of love for the grace bestowed
upon him by Jesus Christ? Excepting only some few, you may walk to the world's end, and find
none. But, as I said, some there are, and so there have been in every age of the church, great
sinners, that have had much forgiven them; and they love much upon this account. Jesus Christ,
therefore, knows what he doth, when he lays hold on the hearts of sinners of the biggest size.
He knows that such an one will love more than many that have not sinned half their sins.

I will tell you a story that I have read of Martha and Mary; the name of the book I have forgot;
I mean of the book in which I found the relation; but the thing was thus:--

Martha, saith my author, was a very holy woman, much like Lazarus, her brother; but Mary was
a loose and wanton creature; Martha did seldom miss good sermons and lectures, when she could
come at them in Jerusalem; but Mary would frequent the house of sports, and the company of
the vilest of men for lust. And though Martha had often desired that her sister would go with
her to hear her preachers, yea, had often entreated her with tears to do it, yet could she
never prevail; for still Mary would make her excuse, or reject her with disdain, for her zeal
and preciseness in religion.

After Martha had waited long, tried many ways to bring her sister to good, and all proved ineffectual,
at last she comes upon her thus: 'Sister,' quoth she, 'I pray thee go with me to the temple
today, to hear one preach a sermon.' 'What kind of preacher is he?' said she. Martha replied,
'It is one Jesus of Nazareth; he is the handsomest man that ever you saw with your eyes. Oh!
he shines in beauty, and is a most excellent preacher.'

Now, what does Mary, after a little pause, but goes up into her chamber, and, with her pins
and her clouts,20 decks up herself as fine as her fingers could make her. This done, away she
goes, not with her sister Martha, but as much unobserved as she could, to the sermon, or rather
to see the preacher.

The hour and preacher being come, and she having observed whereabout the preacher would stand,
goes and sets herself so in the temple, that she might be sure to have the full view of this
excellent person. So he comes in, and she looks, and the first glimpse of his person pleased
her. Well, Jesus addresseth himself to his sermon, and she looks earnestly on him.

Now, at that time, saith my author, Jesus preached about the lost sheep, the lost groat, and
the prodigal child. And when he came to show what care the shepherd took for one lost sheep,
and how the woman swept to find her piece which was lost, and what joy there was at their finding,
she began to be taken by the ears, and forgot what she came about, musing what the preacher
would make of it. But when he came to the application, and showed, that by the lost sheep,
was meant a great sinner; by the shepherd's care, was meant God's love for great sinners; and
that by the joy of the neighbours, was showed what joy there was among the angels in heaven
over one great sinner that repenteth; she began to be taken by the heart. And as he spake these
last words, she thought he pitched his innocent eyes just upon her, and looked as if he spake
what was now said to her: wherefore her heart began to tremble, being shaken with affection
and fear; then her eyes ran down with tears apace; wherefore she was forced to hide her face
with her handkerchief, and so sat sobbing and crying all the rest of the sermon.

Sermon being done, up she gets, and away she goes, and withal inquired where this Jesus the
preacher dined that day? and one told her, At the house of Simon the Pharisee. So away goes
she, first to her chamber, and there strips herself of her wanton attire; then falls upon her
knees to ask God forgiveness for all her wicked life. This done, in a modest dress she goes
to Simon's house, where she finds Jesus sat at dinner. So she gets behind him, and weeps, and
drops her tears upon his feet like rain, and washes them, and wipes them with the hair of her
head. She also kissed his feet with her lips, and anointed them with ointment. When Simon the
Pharisee perceived what the woman did, and being ignorant of what it was to be forgiven much
(for he never was forgiven more than fifty pence), he began to think within himself, that he
had been mistaken about Jesus Christ, because he suffered such a sinner as this woman was,
to touch him. Surely, quoth he, this man, if he were a prophet, would not let this woman come
near him, for she is a town-sinner; so ignorant are all self-righteous men of the way of Christ
with sinners. But, lest Mary should be discouraged with some clownish carriage of this Pharisee,
and so desert her good beginnings, and her new steps which she now had begun to take towards
eternal life, Jesus began thus with Simon: 'Simon,' saith he, 'I have somewhat to say unto
thee. And he saith, Master, say on. There was,' said Jesus, 'a certain creditor which had two
debtors; the one owed five hundred pence, and the other fifty. And he said unto him, Thou hast
rightly judged. And he turned to the woman, and said unto Simon, Seest thou this woman? I entered
into thine house, thou gavest me no water for my feet; but she hath washed my feet with tears,
and wiped them with the hairs of her head. Thou gavest me no kiss; but this woman, since the
time I came in, hath not ceased to kiss my feet. My head with oil thou didst not anoint, but
this woman hath anointed my feet with ointment. Wherefore, I say unto her, Her sins, which
are many, are forgiven, for she loved much; but to whom little is forgiven, the same loveth
little. And he said unto her, Thy sins are forgiven'(Luke 7:36-48).

Thus you have the story. If I come short in any circumstance, I beg pardon of those that can
correct me. It is three or four and twenty years since I saw the book; yet I have, as far as
my memory will admit, given you the relation of the matter. However, Luke, as you see, doth
here present you with the substance of the whole.21

Alas! Christ Jesus has but little thanks for the saving of little sinners. 'To whom little
is forgiven, the same loveth little.' He gets not water for his feet, by his saving of such
sinners. There are abundance of dry-eyed Christians in the world, and abundance of dry-eyed
duties too; duties that never were wetted with the tears of contrition and repentance, nor
ever sweetened with the great sinner's box of ointment. And the reason is, such sinners have
not great sins to be saved from; or, if they have, they look upon them in the diminishing glass
of the holy law of God.22 But, I rather believe, that the professors of our days want a due
sense of what they are; for, verily, for the generality of them, both before and since conversion,
they have been sinners of a lusty size. But if their eyes be holden, if convictions are not
shown, if their knowledge of their sins is but like to the eye-sight in twilight; the heart
cannot be affected with that grace that has laid hold on the man; and so Christ Jesus sows
much, and has little coming in. Wherefore his way is ofttimes to step out of the way, to Jericho,
to Samaria, to the country of the Gadarenes, to the coasts of Tyre and Sidon, and also to Mount
Calvary, that he may lay hold of such kind of sinners as will love him to his liking (Luke
19:1-11; John 4:3-11; Mark 5:1-20; Matt 15:21-29; Luke 23:33-43).

But thus much for the sixth reason, why Christ Jesus would have mercy offered, in the first
place, to the biggest sinners, to wit, because such sinners, when converted, are apt to love
him most. The Jerusalem sinners were they that outstripped, when they were converted, in some
things, all the churches of the Gentiles. They 'were of one heart, and of one soul: neither
said any of them that aught of the things which he possessed was his own.' 'Neither was there
any among them that lacked: for as many as were possessors of lands or houses sold them, and
brought the prices of the things that were sold, and laid them down at the apostles' feet,'
&c. (Acts 4:32,35). Now, show me such another pattern, if you can. But why did these do thus?
Oh! they were Jerusalem sinners. These were the men that, but a little before, had killed the
Prince of life; and those to whom he did, that notwithstanding, send the first offer of grace
and mercy. And the sense of this took them up betwixt the earth and the heaven, and carried
them on in such ways and methods as could never be trodden by any since. They talk of the church
of Rome, and set her, in her primitive state, as a pattern and mother of churches; when the
truth is, they were the Jerusalem sinners, when converts, that out-did all the churches that
ever were.

Seventh, Christ Jesus would have mercy offered, in the first place, to the biggest sinners,
because grace, when it is received by such, finds matter to kindle upon more freely than it
finds in other sinners.

Great sinners are like the dry wood, or like great candles, which burn best and shine with
biggest light. I lay not this down, as I did those reasons before, to show, that when great
sinners are converted, they will be encouragement to others, though that is true; but to show,
that Christ has a delight to see grace, the grace we receive, to shine. We love to see things
that bear a good gloss; yea, we choose to buy such kind of matter to work upon, as will, if
wrought up to what we intend, cast that lustre that we desire. Candles that burn not bright,
we like not; wood that is green will rather smother, and sputter, and smoke, and crack, and
flounce, than cast a brave light and a pleasant heat; wherefore great folks care not much,
not so much, for such kind of things, as for them that will better answer their ends.

Hence Christ desires the biggest sinner; in him there is matter to work by, to wit, a great
deal of sin; for as by the tallow of the candle, the first takes occasion to burn the brighter;
so, by the sin of the soul, grace takes occasion to shine the clearer. Little candles shine
but little, for there wanteth matter for the fire to work upon; but in the great sinner, here
is more matter for grace to work by. Faith shines, when it worketh towards Christ, through
the sides of many and great transgressions, and so does love, for that much is forgiven. And
what matter can be found in the soul for humility to work by so well, as by a sight that I
have been and am an abominable sinner? And the same is to be said of patience, meekness, gentleness,
self-denial, or of any other grace. Grace takes occasion, by the vileness of the man, to shine
the more; even as by the ruggedness of a very strong distemper or disease, the virtue of the
medicine is best made manifest. 'Where sin abounded, grace did much more abound' (Rom 5:20).
A black string makes the neck look whiter; great sins make grace burn clear. Some say, when
grace and a good nature meet together, they do make shining Christians; but I say, when grace
and a great sinner meet, and when grace shall subdue that great sinner to itself, and shall
operate after its kind in the soul of that great sinner, then we have a shining Christian;
witness all those of whom mention was made before.

Abraham was among the idolaters when in the land of Assyria, and served idols, with his kindred,
on the other side of the flood (Josh 24:2; Gen 11:31). But who, when called, was there in the
world, in whom grace shone so bright as in him? The Thessalonians were idolaters before the
Word of God came to them; but when they had received it, they became examples to all that did
believe in Macedonia and Achaia (1 Thess 1:6-10).

God the Father, and Jesus Christ his Son, are for having things seen; for having the Word of
life held forth. They light not a candle that it might be put under a bushel, or under a bed,
but on a candlestick, that all that come in may see the light (Matt 5:15; Mark 4:21; Luke 8:16;
11:33). and, I say, as I said before, in whom is it, light, like so to shine, as in the souls
of great sinners?

When the Jewish Pharisees dallied with the gospel, Christ threatened to take it from them,
and to give it to the barbarous heathens and idolaters. Why so? For they, saith he, will bring
forth the fruits thereof in their season. 23 'Therefore say I unto you, The kingdom of God
shall be taken from you, and given to a nation bringing forth the fruits thereof' (Matt 21:43).

I have often marvelled at our youth, and said in my heart, What should be the reason that they
should be so generally at this day debauched as they are? For they are now profane to amazement;
and sometimes I have thought one thing, and sometimes another; that is, why God should suffer
it so to be? At last I have thought of this: How if the God, whose ways are past finding out,
should suffer it so to be now, that he might make of some of them the more glorious saints
hereafter. I know sin is of the devil, but it cannot work in the world without permission:
and if it happens to be as I have thought, it will not be the first time that God the Lord
hath caught Satan in his own design. For my part, I believe that the time is at hand, that
we shall see better saints in the world than has been seen in it this many a day. And this
vileness, that at present does so much swallow up our youth, is one cause of my thinking so;
for out of them, for from among them, when God sets to his hand, as of old, you shall see what
penitent ones, what trembling ones, and what admirers of grace, will be found to profess the
gospel to the glory of God by Christ.

Alas! we are a company of worn-out Christians; our moon is in the wane; we are much more black
than white, more dark than light; we shine but a little; grace in the most of us is decayed.
But I say, when they of these debauched ones that are to be saved shall be brought in--when
these that look more like devils than men shall be converted to Christ (and I believe several
of them will), then will Christ be exalted, grace adored, the Word prized, Zion's path better
trodden, and men in the pursuit of their own salvation, to the amazement of them that are left
behind.

Just before Christ came into the flesh, the world was degenerated as it is now: the generality
of the men in Jerusalem were become either high and famous for hypocrisy, or filthy, base in
their lives. The devil also was broke loose in hideous manner, and had taken possession of
many: yea, I believe, that there was never generation before nor since, that could produce
so many possessed with devils, deformed, lame, blind, and infected with monstrous diseases,
as that generation could. But what was the reason thereof, I mean the reason from God? Why,
one--and we may sum up more in that answer that Christ gave to his disciples concerning him
that was born blind--was, that 'the works of God should be made manifest' in them, and 'that
the Son of God might be glorified thereby' (John 9:2,3; 11:4).

Now, if these devils and diseases, as they possessed men then, were to make way and work for
an approaching to Christ in person, and for the declaring of his power, why may we not think
that now, even now also, he is ready to come, by his Spirit in the gospel, to heal many of
the debaucheries of our age? I cannot believe that grace will take them all, for there are
but few that are saved; but yet it will take some, even some of the worst of men, and make
blessed ones of them. But, O how these ringleaders in vice will then shine in virtue! They
will be the very pillars in churches, they will be as an ensign in the land. 'The Lord their
God shall save them in that day as the flock of his people: for they shall be as the stones
of a crown, lifted up as an ensign upon his land' (Zech 9:16). But who are these? Even idolatrous
Ephraim, and backsliding Judah (verse 13).

I know there is ground to fear, that the iniquity of this generation will be pursued with heavy
judgments; but that will not hinder that we have supposed. God took him a glorious church out
of bloody Jerusalem, yea, out of the chief of the sinners there, and left the rest to be taken
and spoiled, and sold, thirty for a penny, in the nations where they were captives. The gospel
working gloriously in a place, to the seizing upon many of the ringleading sinners thereof,
promiseth no security to the rest, but rather threateneth them with the heaviest and smartest
judgments; as in the instance now given, we have a full demonstration; but in defending, the
Lord will defend his people; and in saving, he will save his inheritance.

Nor does this speak any great comfort to a decayed and backsliding sort of Christian; for the
next time God rides post with his gospel, he will leave such Christians behind him. But, I
say, Christ is resolved to set up his light in the world; yea, he is delighted to see his graces
shine; and therefore he commands that his gospel should, to that end, be offered, in the first
place, to the biggest sinners; for by great sins it shineth most; therefore he saith, 'Begin
at Jerusalem.'

Eighth, and lastly, Christ Jesus will have mercy to be offered, in the first place, to the
biggest sinners, for that by that means the impenitent that are left behind will be, at the
judgment, the more left withoutexcuse.

God's Word has two edges; it can cut back-stroke and fore-stroke. If it doth thee no good,
it will do thee hurt; it is 'the savour of life unto life' to those that receive it, but of
'death unto death' to them that refuse it (2 Cor 2:15,16). But this is not all; the tender
of grace to the biggest sinners, in the first place, will not only leave the rest, or those
that refuse it, in a deplorable condition, but will also stop their mouths, and cut off all
pretence to excuse at that day. 'If I had not come and spoken unto them,' saith Christ,' saith
Christ, 'they had not had sin; but now they have no cloke for their sin'--for their sin of
persevering in impenitence (John 15:22). But what did he speak to them? Why, even that which
I have told you; to wit, That he has in special a delight in saving the biggest sinners. He
spake this in the way of his doctrine; he spake this in the way of his practice, even to the
pouring out of his last breath before them (Luke 23:34).

Now, since this is so, what can the condemned at the judgment say for themselves, why sentence
of death should not be passed upon them? I say, what excuse can they make for themselves, when
they shall be asked why they did not in the day of salvation come to Christ to be saved? Will
they have ground to say to the Lord, Thou wast only for saving of little sinners; and, therefore,
because they were great ones, they durst not come unto him; or that thou hadst not compassion
for the biggest sinners, therefore I died in despair? Will these be excuses for them, as the
case now standeth with them? Is there not everywhere in God's Book a flat contradiction to
this, in multitudes of promises, of invitations, of examples, and the like? Alas! alas! there
will then be there millions of souls to confute this plea; ready, I say, to stand up, and say,
'O! deceived world, heaven swarms with such as were, when they were in the world, to the full
as bad as you!' Now, this will kill all plea or excuse, why they should not perish in their
sins; yea, the text says they shall see them there. 'There shall be weeping-when ye shall see
Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob, and all the prophets, in the kingdom of heaven, and you yourselves
thrust out. Out of which company, it is easy to pick such as sometimes were as bad people as
any [that] now breathe on the face of [the] earth. What think you of the first man, by whose
sins there are millions now in hell? And so I may say, What think you of ten thousand more besides?

But if the Word will not stifle and gag them up--I speak now for amplification's sake--the
view of those who are saved shall. There comes an incestuous person to the bar, and pleads,
That the bigness of his sins was a bar to his receiving the promise. But will not his mouth
be stopped as to that, when Lot, and the incestuous Corinthians, shall be set before him (Gen
19:33-37; 1 Cor 5:1,2).

There comes a thief, and says, Lord, my sin of thefts, I thought, was such as could not be
pardoned by thee! But when he shall see the thief that was saved on the cross stand by, as
clothed with beauteous glory, what further can he be able to object? Yea, the Lord will produce
ten thousand of his saints at his coming, who shall after this manner 'execute judgment upon
all, and so convince all that are ungodly among them--of all their hard speeches which ungodly
sinners have spoken against him' (Jude 15). And these are hard speeches against him, to say
that he was not able or willing to save men, because of the greatness of their sins, or to
say that they were discouraged by his Word from repentance, because of the heinousness of their
offences. These things, I say, shall then be confuted. He comes with ten thousand of his saints
to confute them, and to stop their mouths from making objections against their own eternal
damnation.

Here is Adam, the destroyer of the world; here is Lot, that lay with both his daughters; here
is Abraham, that was sometime an idolater; and Jacob, that was a supplanter; and Reuben, that
lay with his father's concubine; and Judah, that lay with his daughter-in-law; and Levi and
Simeon, that wickedly slew the Shechemites; and Aaron, that made an idol to be worshipped,
and that proclaimed a religious feast unto it. Here is also Rahab the harlot, and Bathsheba,
that bare a bastard to David. Here is Solomon, that great backslider; and Manasseh, that man
of blood and a witch. Time would fail to tell you of the woman of Canaan's daughter, of Mary
Magdalene, of Matthew the publican, and of Gideon and Samson, and many thousands more.

Alas! alas! I say, what will these sinners do, that have, through their unbelief, eclipsed
the glorious largeness of the mercy of God, and gave way to despair of salvation, because of
the bigness of their sins? For all these, though now glorious saints in light, were sometimes
sinners of the biggest size, who had sins that were of a notorious hue; yet now, I say, they
are in their shining and heavenly robes before the throne of God and of the Lamb, blessing
for ever and ever that Son of God for their salvation, who died for them upon the tree; admiring
that ever it should come into their hearts once to think of coming to God by Christ; but above
all, blessing God for granting of them light to see those encouragements in his Testament;
without which, without doubt, they had been daunted, and sunk down under guilt of sin and despair,
as their fellow-sinners have done. But now they also are witnesses for God, and for his grace,
against an unbelieving world; for, as I said, they shall come to convince the world of their
speeches, their hard and unbelieving words, that they have spoken concerning the mercy of God,
and the merits of the passion of his blessed Son, Jesus Christ.

But will it not, think you, strangely put to silence all such thoughts, and words, and reasons
of the ungodly before the bar of God? Doubtless it will; yea, and will send them away from
his presence also, with the greatest guilt that possibly can fasten upon the consciences of men.

For what will sting like this?--'I have, through mine own foolish, narrow, unworthy, undervaluing
thoughts, of the love and ability of Christ to save me, brought myself to everlasting ruin.
It is true, I was a horrible sinner; not one in a hundred did live so vile a life as I. But
this should not have kept me from closing with Jesus Christ. I see now that there are abundance
in glory that once were as bad as I have been; but they were saved by faith, and I am damned
by unbelief. Wretch that I am! why did not I give glory to the redeeming blood of Jesus? Why
did I not humbly cast my soul at his blessed footstool for mercy? Why did I judge of his ability
to save me by the voice of my shallow reason, and the voice of a guilty conscience? Why betook
not I myself to the holy Word of God? Why did I not read and pray that I might understand,
since now I perceive that God said then, He giveth liberally to them that pray, and upbraideth
not' (James 1:5).

It is rational to think, that by such cogitations as these, the unbelieving world will be torn
in pieces before the judgment of Christ; especially those that have lived where they did or
might have heard the gospel of the grace of God. Oh! that saying, 'It shall be more tolerable
for Sodom at the judgment than for them,' will be better understood (Luke 10:8-12). This reason,
therefore, standeth fast; namely, that Christ, by offering mercy, in the first place, to the
biggest sinners now, will stop all the mouths of the impenitent at the day of judgment, and
cut off all excuse that shall be attempted to be made, from the thoughts of the greatness of
their sins, why they came not to him.

I have often thought of the day of judgment, and how God will deal with sinners at that day;
and I believe it will be managed with that sweetness, with that equitableness, with that excellent
righteousness, as to every sin, and circumstance and aggravation thereof, that men that are
damned, shall, before the judgment is over, receive such conviction of the righteous judgment
of God upon them, and of their deserts of hell-fire, that they shall in themselves conclude,
that there is all the reason in the world that they should be shut out of heaven, and go to
hell-fire: 'These shall go away into everlasting punishment' (Matt 25:46).24

Only this will tear [them,] that they have missed of mercy and glory, and obtained everlasting
damnation, through their unbelief; but it will tear but themselves, but their own souls; they
will gnash upon themselves, for that mercy was offered to the chief of them in the first place,
and yet they were damned for rejecting of it; they were damned for forsaking what they had
a propriety in; for forsaking their own mercy.

And thus much for the reasons. Second, I will conclude with a word of application.

THE APPLICATION.

First, Would Jesus Christ have mercy offered, in the first place, to the biggest sinners? Then
this shows us how to make a right judgment of the heart of Christ to men. Indeed, we have advantage
to guess at the goodness of his heart by many things; as by his taking our nature upon him,
his dying for us, his sending his Word and ministers to us, and all that we might be saved.
But this of beginning to offer mercy to Jerusalem, is that which heightens all the rest; for
this doth not only confirm to us, that love was the use of his dying for us, but it shows us
yet more the depth of that love. He might have died for us, and yet have extended the benefit
of his death to a few, as one might call them, of the best-conditioned sinners, to those who,
though they were weak, and so could not but sin, yet made not a trade of sinning; to those
that sinned not lavishingly. There are in the world, as one may call them, the moderate sinners;
the sinners that mix righteousness with their pollutions; the sinners that, though they be
sinners, do what on their part lies--some that are blind would think so--that they might be
saved. I say, it had been love, great love, if he had died for none but such, and sent his
love to such; but that he should send out conditions of peace to the biggest of sinners; yea,
that they should be offered to them first of all; (for so he means when he says, 'Begin at
Jerusalem';) this is wonderful! this shows his heart to purpose, as also the heart of God his
Father, who sent him to do thus.

There is nothing more incident to men that are awake in their souls, than to have wrong thoughts
of God--thoughts that are narrow, and that pinch and pen up his mercy to scanty and beggarly
conclusions, and rigid legal conditions; supposing that it is rude, and an intrenching upon
his majesty to come ourselves, or to invite others, until we have scraped and washed, and rubbed
off as much of our dirt from us as we think is convenient, to make us somewhat orderly and
handsome in his sight.25 Such never knew what these words meant, 'Begin at Jerusalem.' Yea,
such in their hearts have compared the Father and his Son to niggardly rich men, whose money
comes from them like drops of blood. True, say such, God has mercy, but he is loath to part
with it; you must please him well, if you get any from him; he is not so free as many suppose,
nor is he so willing to save as some pretended gospellers imagine. But I ask such, if the Father
and Son be not unspeakably free to show mercy, why was this clause put into our commission
to preach the gospel? Yea, why did he say, 'Begin at Jerusalem': for when men, through the
weakness of their wits, have attempted to show other reasons why they would have the first
proffer of mercy; yet I can prove, by many undeniable reasons, that they of Jerusalem, to whom
the apostles made the first offer, according as they were commanded, were the biggest sinners
that ever did breathe upon the face of God's earth (set the unpardonable sin aside); upon which
[fact] my doctrine stands like a rock, that Jesus the Son of God would have mercy, in the first
place, offered to the biggest sinners. And if this doth not show the heart of the Father and
the Son to be infinitely free in bestowing forgiveness of sins, I confess myself mistaken.

Neither is there, set this aside, another argument like it, to show us the willingness of Christ
to save sinners; for, as was said before, all the rest of the signs of Christ's mercifulness
might have been limited to sinners that are so and so qualified; but when he says, 'Begin at
Jerusalem,' the line is stretched out to the utmost; no man can imagine beyond it; and it is
folly here to pinch and spare, to narrow, and seek to bring it within scanty bounds; for he
plainly saith, 'Begin at Jerusalem,' the biggest sinner is the biggest sinner; the biggest
is the Jerusalem sinner.

It is true, he saith, that repentance and remission of sins must go together, but yet remission
is sent to the chief, the Jerusalem sinner; nor doth repentance lessen at all the Jerusalem
sinner's crimes; it diminisheth none of his sins, nor causes that there should be so much as
half an one the fewer; it only puts a stop to the Jerusalem sinner's course, and makes him
willing to be saved freely by grace; and for time to come to be governed by that blessed word
that has brought the tidings of good things to him. Besides, no man shows himself willing to
be saved that repenteth not of his deeds; for he that goes on still in his trespasses, declares
that he is resolved to pursue his own damnation further.

Learn then to judge of the largeness of God's heart, and of the heart of his Son Jesus Christ,
by the Word; judge not thereof by feeling, nor by the reports of thy conscience; conscience
is ofttimes here befooled, and made to go quite beside the Word. It was judging without the
Word that made David say, I am cast off from God's eyes, and 'shall perish one day by the hand
of Saul' (Psa 31:22; 1 Sam 27:1). The Word had told him another thing; namely, that he should
be king in his stead. Our text says also, that Jesus Christ bids preachers, in their preaching
repentance and remission of sins, begin first at Jerusalem; thereby declaring most truly the
infinite largeness of the merciful heart of God and his Son, to the sinful children of men.
Judge thou, I say, therefore, of the goodness of the heart of God and his Son, by this text,
and by others of the same import; so shalt thou not dishonour the grace of God, nor needlessly
fright thyself, nor give away thy faith, nor gratify the devil, nor lose the benefit of God's
Word. I speak now to weak believers. Then, by this also, you must learn to judge of the sufficiency
of the merits of Christ; not that the merits of Christ can be comprehended, for that they are
beyond the conceptions of the whole world, being called 'the unsearchable riches of Christ';
but yet they may be apprehended to a considerable degree. Now, the way to apprehend them most,
is, to consider what offers, after his resurrection, he makes of his grace to sinners; for
to be sure he will not offer beyond the virtue of his merits; because, as grace is the cause
of his merits, so his merits are the basis and bounds upon and by which his grace stands good,
and is let out to sinners. Doth he then command that his mercy should be offered, in the first
place, to the biggest sinners? It declares, that there is a sufficiency in his blood to save
the biggest sinners. 'The blood of Jesus Christ cleanseth from all sin.' And again, 'Be it
known unto you, therefore, men and brethren, that through this man [this man's merits] is preached
unto you the forgiveness of sins; and by him all that believe are justified from all things,
from which ye could not be justified by the law of Moses' (Acts 13:38).

Observe, then, thy rule to make judgment of the sufficiency of the blessed merits of thy Saviour.
If he had not been able to have reconciled the biggest sinners to his Father by his blood,
he would not have sent to them, have sent to them in the first place, the doctrine of remission
of sins; for remission of sins is through faith in his blood. We are justified freely by the
grace of God, through the redemption that is in the blood of Christ. Upon the square, as I
may call it, of the worthiness of the blood of Christ, grace acts, and offers forgiveness of
sin to men (Eph 1:7; 2:13,14; Col 1:20-22). Hence, therefore, we must gather, that the blood
of Christ is of infinite value, for that he offereth mercy to the biggest of sinners. Nay,
further, since he offereth mercy, in the first place, to the biggest sinners, considering also,
that this first act of his is that which the world will take notice of, and expect it should
be continued unto the end. Also it is a disparagement to a man that seeks his own glory in
what he undertakes, to do that for a spurt, which he cannot continue and hold out in. This
is our Lord's own argument, He began to build, saith he, but was not able to finish (Luke 14:30).

Shouldst thou hear a man say, I am resolved to be kind to the poor, and should begin with giving
handfuls of guineas, you would conclude, that either he is wonderful rich, or must straiten
his hand, or will soon be at the bottom of his riches. Why, this is the case: Christ, at his
resurrection, gave it out that he would be good to the world; and first sends to the biggest
sinners, with an intent to have mercy on them. Now, the biggest sinners cannot be saved but
by abundance of grace; it is not a little that will save great sinners (Rom 5:17). And I say
again, since the Lord Jesus mounts thus high at the first, and sends to the Jerusalem sinners,
that they may come first to partake of his mercy, it follows, that either he has unsearchable
riches of grace and worth in himself, or else he must straiten his hand, or his grace and merits
will be spent before the world is at an end. But let it be believed, as surely as spoken, he
is still as full as ever. He is not a jot the poorer for all the forgiveness tha the has given
away to great sinners. Also he is still as free as at first; for he never yet called back this
word, Begin at the Jerusalem sinners. And, as I said, since his grace is extended according
to the worth of his merits. I conclude, that there is the same virtue in his merits to save
now, as there was at the very beginning, Oh! the riches of the grace of Christ! Oh! the riches
of the blood of Christ!

Third, Would Jesus Christ have mercy offered in the first place to the biggest sinners? Then
here is encouragement for you that think, for wicked hearts and lives, you have not your fellows
in the world, yet to come to him.

There is a people that therefore fear lest they should be rejected of Jesus Christ, because
of the greatness of their sins; when, as you see here, such are sent to, sent to by Jesus Christ,
to come to him for mercy: 'Begin at Jerusalem.' Never did one thing answer another more fitly
in this world, than this text fitteth such a kind of sinners. As face answereth face in a glass,
so this text answereth the necessities of such sinners. What can a man say more, but that he
stands in the rank of the biggest sinners? let him stretch himself whither he can, and think
of himself to the utmost, he can but conclude himself to be one of the biggest sinners. And
what then? Why, the text meets him in the very face, and saith, Christ offereth mercy to the
biggest sinners, to the very Jerusalem sinners. What more can be objected? Nay, he doth not
only offer to such his mercy, but to them it is commanded to be offered in the first place:
'Begin at Jerusalem.' 'Preach repentance and remission of sins among all nations: beginning
at Jerusalem.' Is not here encouragement for those that think, for wicked hearts and lives,
they have not their fellows in the world?

Objection. But I have a heart as hard as a rock.

Answer. Well, but this doth but prove thee a biggest sinner.

Objection. But my heart continually frets against the Lord.

Answer. Well, this doth but prove thee a biggest sinner.

Objection. But I have been desperate in sinful courses.

Answer. Well, stand thou with the number of the biggest sinners.

Objection. But my gray head is found in the way of wickedness.

Answer. Well, thou art in the rank of the biggest sinners.

Objection. But I have not only a base heart, but I have lived a debauched life.

Answer. Stand thou also among those that are called the biggest sinners. And what then? Why,
the text swoops you all; you cannot object yourselves beyond the text. It has a particular
message to the biggest sinners. I say, it swoops you all.26

Objection. But I am a reprobate.

Answer. Now thou talkest like a fool, and meddlest with what thou understandest not: no sin,
but the sin of final impenitence, can prove a man a reprobate; and I am sure thou hast not
arrived as yet unto that; therefore thou understandest not what thou sayest, and makest groundless
conclusions against thyself. Say thou art a sinner, and I will hold with thee; say thou art
a great sinner, and I will say so too; yea, say thou art one of the biggest sinners, and spare
not; for the text yet is beyond thee, is yet betwixt hell and thee; 'Begin at Jerusalem' has
yet a smile upon thee; and thou talkest as if thou wast a reprobate, and that the greatness
of thy sins do prove thee so to be, when yet they of Jerusalem were not such, whose sins, I
dare say, were such, both for bigness and heinousness, as thou art not capable of committing
beyond them; unless now, after thou hast received conviction that the Lord Jesus is the only
Saviour of the world, thou shouldst wickedly and despitefully turn thyself from him, and conclude
he is not to be trusted to for life, and so crucify him for a cheat afresh. This, I must confess,
will bring a man under the black rod, and set him in danger of eternal damnation (Heb 6:7,8;
10:8,9). This is trampling under foot the Son of God, and counting his blood an unholy thing.
This did they of Jerusalem; but they did it ignorantly in unbelief, and so were yet capable
of mercy; but to do this against professed light, and to stand to it, puts a man beyond the
text indeed (Acts 3:14-17; 1 Tim 1:13).

But I say, what is this to him that would fain be saved by Christ? His sins did, as to greatness,
never yet reach to the nature of the sins that the sinners intended by the text had made themselves
guilty of. He that would be saved by Christ, has an honourable esteem of him; but they of Jerusalem
preferred a murderer before him; and as for him, they cried, Away, away with him, it is not
fit that he should live. Perhaps thou wilt object, That thyself hast a thousand times preferred
a stinking lust before him: I answer, Be it so; it is but what is common to men to do; nor
doth the Lord Jesus make such a foolish life a bar to thee, to forbid thy coming to him, or
a bond to his grace, that it might be kept from thee; but admits of thy repentance, and offereth
himself unto thee freely, as thou standest among the Jerusalem sinners.

Take therefore encouragement, man; mercy is, by the text, held forth to the biggest sinners;
yea, put thyself into the number of the worst, by reckoning that thou mayest be one of the
first, and mayest not be put off till the biggest sinners are served; for the biggest sinners
are first invited; consequently, if they come, they are like to be the first that shall be
served. It was so with Jerusalem; Jerusalem sinners were they that were first invited, and
those of them that came first--and there came three thousand of them the first day they were
invited; how many came afterwards none can tell--they were first served.

Put in thy name, man, among the biggest, lest thou art made to wait till they are served. You
have some men that think themselves very cunning, because they put up their names in their
prayers among them that feign it, saying, God, I thank thee I am not so bad as the worst. But
believe it, if they be saved at all, they shall be saved in the last place. The first in their
own eyes shall be served last; and the last or worst shall be first. The text insinuates it,
'Begin at Jerusalem'; and reason backs it, for they have most need. Behold ye, therefore, how
God's ways are above ours; we are for serving the worst last, God is for serving the worst
first. The man at the pool, that to my thinking was longest in his disease, and most helpless
as to his cure, was first healed; yea, he only was healed; for we read that Christ healed him,
but we read not then that he healed one more there! (John 5:1-10). Wherefore, if thou wouldst
soonest be served, put in thy name among the very worst of sinners. Say, when thou art upon
thy knees, Lord, here is a Jerusalem sinner! a sinner of the biggest size! one whose burden
is of the greatest bulk and heaviest weight! one that cannot stand long without sinking into
hell, without thy supporting hand! 'Be not thou far from me, O Lord! O my strength, haste thee
to help me!' (Psa 22:19).

I say, put in thy name with Magdalene, with Manasseh, that thou mayest fare as the Magdalene
and the Manasseh sinners do. The man in the gospel made the desperate condition of his child
an argument with Christ to haste his cure: 'Sire, come down,' saith he, 'ere my child die'
(John 4:49), and Christ regarded his haste, saying, 'Go thy way; thy son liveth' (verse 50).
Haste requires haste. David was for speed; 'Deliver me speedily'; 'Hear me speedily'; 'Answer
me speedily' (Psa 31:2; 69:17; 102:2). But why speedily? I am in 'the net'; 'I am in trouble';
'My days are consumed like smoke' (Psa 31:4; 69:17; 102:3). Deep calleth unto deep, necessity
calls for help; great necessity for present help. Wherefore, I say, be ruled by me in this
matter; feign not thyself another man, if thou hast been a filthy sinner, but go in thy colours
to Jesus Christ, and put thyself among the most vile, and let him alone to 'put thee among
the children' (Jer 3:19). Confess all that thou knowest of thyself; I know thou wilt find it
hard work to do thus: especially if thy mind be legal; but do it, lest thou stay and be deferred
with the little sinners, until the great ones have had their alms. What do you think David
intended when he said, his wounds stunk and were corrupted, but to hasten God to have mercy
upon him, and not to defer his cure? David knew what he did by all this; he knew that his making
the worst of his case, was the way to speedy help, and that a feigning and dissembling the
matter with God, was the next way to a demur as to his forgiveness.

I have one thing more to offer for thy encouragement, who deemest thyself one of the biggest
sinners; and that is, thou art as it were called by thy name, in the first place, to come in
for mercy. Why sittest thou still? arise: why standest thou still? come, man, thy call should
give thee authority to come. The Jerusalem sinner is first in thought, first in commission,
first in the record of names; and therefore should give attendance, with the expectation that
he is first to receive mercy of God.

Is not this an encouragement to the biggest sinners to make their application to Christ for
mercy? 'Come unto me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden,' doth also confirm this thing;
that is, that the biggest sinner, and he that has the biggest burden, is he who is first invited.
Then come, thou profane wretch, and let me a little enter into an argument with thee. Why wilt
thou not come to Jesus Christ, since thou art a Jerusalem sinner? How canst thou find in thy
heart to set thyself against grace, against such grace as offereth mercy to thee? What spirit
possesseth thee, and holds thee back from a sincere closure with thy Saviour? Behold, God groaningly
complains of thee, saying, 'But Israel would none of me.' 'When I called, none did answer'
(Psa 81:11; Isa 66:4).

Shall God enter this complaint against thee? Why dost thou put him off? Why dost thou stop
thine ear? Canst thou defend thyself? When thou art called to an account for thy neglects of
so great salvation, what canst thou answer? or dost thou think that thou shalt escape the judgment?
(Heb 2:3). No more such Christs! There will be no more such Christs, sinner! Oh, put not the
day, the day of grace, away from thee! if it be once gone, it will never come again, sinner.

But what is it that has got thy heart, and that keeps it from thy Saviour? 'Who in the heaven
can be compared unto the Lord? who among the sons of the mighty can be likened unto the Lord?'
(Psa 89:6). Hast thou, thinkest thou, found anything so good as Jesus Christ? Is there any
among thy sins, thy companions, and foolish delights, that, like Christ, can help thee in the
day of thy distress? Behold, the greatness of thy sins cannot hinder; let not the stubbornness
of thy heart hinder thee, sinner.

Objection. I am ashamed.

Answer. Oh! don't be ashamed to be saved, sinner.

Objection. But my old companions will mock me.

Answer. Oh! don't be mocked out of eternal life, sinner.

Thy stubbornness affects, afflicts the heart of thy Saviour. Carest thou not for this? Of old,
'he beheld the city, and wept over it.' Canst thou hear this, and not be concerned? (Luke 19:41,42).
Shall Christ weep to see thy soul going on to destruction, and will though sport thyself in
that way? Yea, shall Christ, that can be eternally happy without thee, be more afflicted at
the thoughts of the loss of thy soul, than thyself, who art certainly eternally miserable if
thou neglectest to come to him. Those things that keep thee and thy Saviour, on thy part, asunder,
are but bubbles; the least prick of an affliction will let out, as to thee, what now thou thinkest
is worth the venture of heaven to enjoy.

Hast thou not reason? Canst thou not so much as once soberly think of thy dying hour, or of
whither thy sinful life will drive thee then? Hast thou no conscience? or having one, is it
rocked so fast asleep by sin, or made so weary with an unsuccessful calling upon thee, that
it is laid down, and cares for thee no more? Poor man! thy state is to be lamented. Hast no
judgment? Art not able to conclude, that to be saved is better than to burn in hell? and that
eternal life with God's favour, is better than a temporal life in God's displeasure? Hast no
affection but what is brutish? what, none at all? No affection for the God that made thee?
What! none for his loving Son that has showed his love, and died for thee? Is not heaven worth
thy affection? O poor man! which is strongest, thinkest thou, God or thee? If thou art not
able to overcome him, thou art a fool for standing out against him (Matt 5:25,26). 'It is a
fearful thing to fall into the hand of the living God' (Heb 10:29-31). He will gripe hard;
his fist is stronger than a lion's paw; take heed of him, he will be angry if you despise his
Son; and will you stand guilty in your trespasses, when he offereth you his grace and favour?
(Exo 34:6,7).

Now we come to the text, 'Beginning at Jerusalem.' This text, though it be now one of the brightest
stars that shineth in the Bible, because there is in it, as full, if not the fullest offer
of grace that can be imagined, to the sons of men; yet, to them that shall perish from under
this word, even this text will be to such one of the hottest coals in hell. This text, therefore,
will save thee or sink thee: there is no shifting of it; if it saves thee, it will set thee
high; if it sinks thee, it will set thee low.

But, I say, why so unconcerned? Hast no soul? or dost think thou mayest lose thy soul, and
save thyself? Is it not pity, had it otherwise been the will of God, that ever thou wast made
a man, for that thou settest so little by thy soul? Sinner, take the invitation; thou art called
upon to come to Christ: nor art thou called upon but by order from the Son of God, though thou
shouldst happen to come of the biggest sinners; for he has bid us offer mercy, as to all the
world in general, so, in the first place, to the sinners of Jerusalem, or to the biggest sinners.

I now speak to them that despair. There are four sorts of despair. There is the despair of
devils; there is the despair of souls in hell; there is the despair that is grounded upon men's
deficiency; and there is the despair that they are perplexed with that are willing to be saved,
but are too strongly borne down with the burden of their sins.

The despair of devils, the damned's despair, and that despair that a man has of attaining of
life because of his own deficiency, are all reasonable. Why should not devils and damned souls
despair? yea, why should not man despair of getting to heaven by his own abilities? I, therefore,
am concerned only with the fourth sort of despair, to wit, with the despair of those that would
be saved, but are too strongly borne down with the burden of their sins. I say, therefore,
to thee that art thus, And why despair? Thy despair, if it was reasonable, should flow from
thee, because found in the land that is beyond the grave; or because thou certainly knowest
that Christ will not, or cannot save thee.

But, for the first, thou art yet in the land of the living; and, for the second, thou hast
ground to believe the quite contrary; Christ is able to save to the uttermost them that come
to God by him; and if he were not willing, he would not have commanded that mercy, in the first
place, should be offered to the biggest sinners. Besides, he hath said, 'And let him that is
athirst come. And whosoever will, let him take the water of life freely'; that is, with all
my heart. What ground now is here for despair? If thou sayest, The number and burden of my
sins; I answer, Nay; that is rather a ground for faith; because such an one, above all others,
is invited by Christ to come unto him, yea, promised rest and forgiveness if they come (Matt
11:28). What ground then to despair? Verily, none at all. Thy despair, then, is a thing unreasonable,
and without footing in the Word.

But I have no experience of God's love; God hath given me no comfort, or ground of hope, though
I have waited upon him for it many a day. Thou hast e xperience of God's love, for that he
has opened thine eyes to see thy sins: and for that he has given thee desires to be saved by
Jesus Christ. For by thy sense of sin thou art made to see thy poverty of spirit, and that
has laid under thee a sure ground to hope that heaven shall be thine hereafter.

Also thy desires to be saved by Christ, has put thee under another promise, so there is two
to hold thee up in hope, though thy present burden be never so heavy (Matt 5:3,6). As for what
thou sayest as to God's silence to thee, perhaps he has spoken to thee once or twice already,
but thou hast not perceived it (Job 33:14,15). However, thou hast Christ crucified set forth
before thine eyes in the Bible, and an invitation to come unto him, though thou be a Jerusalem
sinner, though thou be a biggest sinner; and so no ground to despair. What if God will be silent
to thee, is that ground of despair? Not at all, so long as there is a promise in the Bible,
that God will in no wise cast away the coming sinner, and so long as he invites the Jerusalem
sinner to come unto him (John 6:37).

Build not, therefore, despair upon these things; they are no sufficient foundation for it,
such plenty of promises being in the Bible, and such a discovery of his mercy to great sinners
of old; especially since we have withal a clause in the commission given to ministers to preach,
that they should begin with the Jerusalem sinners in their offering of mercy to the world.
Besides, God says, 'They that wait upon the Lord shall renew their strength, they shall mount
up with wings like eagles'; but, perhaps, it may be long first. I waited long, saith David,
and did seek the Lord; and, at length, his cry was heard: wherefore he bids his soul wait on
God, and says, For it is good so to do before thy saints (Psa 40:1; 62:5; 52:9).

And what if thou waitest upon God all thy days? Is it below thee? And what if God will cross
his book, and blot out the handwriting that is against thee, and not let thee know it as yet?
Is it fit to say unto God, Thou art hard-hearted? Despair not; thou hast no ground to despair,
so long as thou livest in this world. (2 Cor 5:18-20). He often calls upon sinners to trust
him, though they walk in darkness, and have no light (Isa 50:10). They have his promise and
oath for their salvation, that flee for refuge to the hope set before them (Heb 6:17,18).

Despair! when we have a God of mercy, and a redeeming Christ alive! A living man despair when
he is chid for murmuring and complaining! (Lam 3:39). Oh! so long as we are where promises
swarm, where mercy is proclaimed, where grace reigns, and where Jerusalem sinners are privileged
with the first offer of mercy, it is a base thing to despair. Despair undervalues the promise,
undervalues the invitation, undervalues the proffer of grace. Despair undervalues the ability
of God the Father, and the redeeming blood of Christ his Son. Oh unreasonable despair! Despair
makes man God's judge; it is a controller of the promise, a contradictor of Christ in his large
offers of mercy: and one that undertakes to make unbelief the great manager of our reason and
judgment, in determining about what God can and will do for sinners. Despair! It is the devil's
fellow, the devil's master; yea, the chains with which he is captivated and held under darkness
for ever: and to give way thereto in a land, in a state and time that flows with milk and honey,
is an uncomely thing.

I would say to my soul, 'O my soul! this is not the place of despair; this is not the time
to despair in; as long as mine eyes can find a promise in the Bible, as long as there is the
least mention of grace, as long as there is a moment left me of breath or life in this world,
so long will I wait or look for mercy, so long will I fight against unbelief and despair.'
This is the way to honour God and Christ; this is the way to set the crown on the promise;
this is the way to welcome the invitation and inviter; and this is the way to thrust thyself
under the shelter and protection of the word of grace. Never despair so long as our text is
alive, for that doth sound it out--that mercy by Christ is offered, in the first place, to
the biggest sinner.

Despair is an unprofitable thing; it will make a man weary of waiting upon God (2 Kings 6:33).
It will make a man forsake God, and seek his heaven in the good things of this world (Gen 4:13-18).

Besides, I am persuaded also, that despair is the cause that there are so many that would fain
be Atheists in the world. For, because, they have entertained a conceit that God will never
be merciful to them, therefore they labour to persuade themselves that there is no God at all,
as if their misbelief would kill God, or cause him to cease to be. A poor shift for an immortal
soul, for a soul who liketh not to retain God in its knowledge! If this be the best that despair
can do, let it go, man, and betake thyself to faith, to prayer, to wait for God, and to hope,
in despite of ten thousand doubts. And for thy encouragement, take yet, as an addition to what
has already been said, the following Scripture: 'The Lord taketh pleasure in them that fear
him, in those that hope in his mercy' (Psa 147:11). Whence note, They fear not God, that hope
not in his mercy; also, God is angry with them that hope not in his mercy; for he only taketh
pleasure in them that hope. 'He that believeth,' or 'hath received his testimony, hath set
to his seal that God is true' (John 3:33). But he that receiveth it not, 'hath made him a liar,'
and that is a very unworthy thing (1 John 5:10,11). Perhaps thou art weary of thy ways, but
art not weary of thy thoughts; of thy unbelieving and despairing thoughts; now, God also would
have thee cast away these thoughts, as such which he deserveth not at thy hands; for 'he will
have mercy upon thee, and he will abundantly pardon.'

'O fools, and slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken!' (Luke 24:25). Mark
you, here, slowness to believe is a piece of folly. Ay! but sayest thou, I do believe some,
and I believe what can make against me. Ay, but sinner, Christ Jesus here calls thee fool for
not believing all. Believe all, and despair if thou canst! He that believes all, believes that
text that saith, Christ would have mercy preached first to the Jerusalem sinners. He that believeth
all, believeth all the promises and consolations of the Word; and the promises and consolations
of the Word weigh heavier than do all the curses and threatenings of the law; and mercy rejoiceth
against judgment. Wherefore believe all, and mercy will, to thy conscience, weigh judgment
down, and so minister comfort to thy soul. The Lord take the yoke from off thy jaws, since
he has set meat before thee (Hosea 11:4). And help thee to remember that he is pleased, in
the first place, to offer mercy to the biggest sinners.

Sixth, Since Jesus Christ would have mercy offered, in the first place, to the biggest sinners,
let souls see that they lay right hold thereof, lest they, notwithstanding, indeed, come short
thereof. Faith only knows how to deal with mercy; wherefore, put not in the place thereof presumption.
I also call it wild faith, because it only grows up and is nourished where other wild notions
abound. Wherefore, take heed of this, and all may be well; for this presumptuousness is a very
heinous thing in the eyes of God. 'The soul,' saith he, 'that doeth ought presumptuously, whether
he be born in the land, or a stranger, the same reproacheth the Lord; and that soul shall be
cut off from among his people' (Num 15:30).

The thoughts of this made David tremble, and pray that God would hold him back from presumptuous
sins, and not suffer them to have dominion over him (Psa 19:13). Now, this presumption, then,
puts itself in the place of faith, when it tampereth with the promise for life, while the soul
is a stranger to repentance. Wherefore, you have in the text, to prevent doing thus, both repentance
and remission of sins to be offered to Jerusalem; not remission without repentance, for all
that repent not shall perish, let them presume on grace and the promise while they will (Luke
13:1-3).

Presumption, then, is that which severeth faith and repentance; concluding that the soul shall
be saved by grace, though the man was never made sorry for his sins, nor the love of the heart
turned therefrom. This is to be self-willed, as Peter has it; and this is a despising the Word
of the Lord, for that has put repentance and faith together (Mark 1:15). Let such, therefore,
look to it who yet are, and abide, in their sins; for such, if they hope, as they are, to be
saved, presume upon the grace of God.27 Wherefore, presumption and not hearkening to God's
Word are put together (Deu 17:12).

Again, THEN men presume, when they are resolved to abide in their sins, and yet expect to be
saved by God's grace through Christ. This is as much as to say, God liketh of sin as well as
I do, and careth not how men live, if so be they lean upon his Son. But look to it! Such will
be found at the day of God, not among that great company of Jerusalem sinners that shall be
saved by grace, but among those that have been the great abusers of the grace of God in the
world. Those that say, Let us sin that grace may abound, and let us do evil that good may come,
their damnation is just. And if so, they are a great way off of that salvation that is, by
Jesus Christ, presented to the Jerusalem sinners.

I have, therefore, these things to propound to that Jerusalem sinner that would know, if he
may be so bold [as] to venture himself upon this grace. 1. Dost thou see thy sins? 2. Art thou
weary of them? 3. Wouldst thou, with all thy heart, be saved by Jesus Christ? I dare say no
less; I dare say no more. But if it be truly thus with thee, how great soever thy sins have
been, how bad soever thou feelest thy heart, how far soever thou art from thinking that God
has mercy for thee, thou art the man, the Jerusalem sinner, that the Word of God has conquered,
and to whom it offereth free remission of sins, by the redemption that is in Jesus Christ.

When the jailor cried out, 'Sirs, what must I do to be saved?' the answer was, 'Believe on
the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved.' He that sees his sins aright, is brought to
his wit's end by them; and he that is so, is willing to part from them, and to be saved by
the grace of God. If this be thy case, fear not, give no way to despair; thou presumest not,
if thou believest to life everlasting in Jesus Christ; yea, Christ is prepared for such as
thou art. Therefore, take good courage, and believe. The design of Satan is, to tell the presumptuous
that their presuming on mercy is good; but to persuade the believer, that his believing is
impudent, bold dealing with God. I never heard a presumptuous man, in my life, say that he
was afraid that he presumed; but I have heard many an honest humble soul say, that they have
been afraid that their faith has been presumption. Why should Satan molest those whose ways
he knows will bring them to him? And who can think that he should be quiet, when men take the
right course to escape his hellish snares? This, therefore, is the reason why the truly humbled
is opposed, while the presumptuous goes on by wind and tide. The truly humble, Satan hates;
but he laughs to see the foolery of the other.

Does thy hand and heart tremble? Upon thee the promise smiles. 'To this man will I look,' says
God, 'even to him that is poor and of a contrite spirit, and trembleth at my word' (Isa 66:2).
What, therefore, I have said of presumption, concerns not the humble in spirit at all. I therefore
am for gathering up the stones, and for taking the stumbling-blocks out of the way of God's
people; and forewarning of them, that they lay the stumbling-block of their iniquity before
their faces; and [of those] that are for presuming upon God's mercy; and let them look to themselves
(Eze 14:6-8).

Also, our text stands firm as ever it did, and our observation is still of force, that Jesus
Christ would have mercy offered, in the first place, to the biggest sinners. So them, let none
despair, let none presume; let none despair that are sorry for their sins, and would be saved
by Jesus Christ; let none presume that abide in the liking of their sins, though they seem
to know the exceeding grace of Christ; for though the door stands wide open for the reception
of the penitent, yet it is fast29 enough barred and bolted against the presumptuous sinner.
Be not deceived, God is not mocked; whatsoever a man sows, that he shall reap. It cannot be
that God should be wheedled out of his mercy, or prevailed upon by lips of dissimulation; he
knows them that trust on him, and that sincerely come to him, by Christ, for mercy (Nahum 1:7).

It is, then, not the abundance of sins committed, but the not coming heartily to God, by Christ,
for mercy, that shuts men out of doors. And though their not coming heartily may be said to
be but a sin, yet it is such a sin as causeth that all thy other sins abide upon thee unforgiven.
God complains of this. 'They have not cried unto me with their heart--they return, but not
to the most High.' They turned 'feignedly' (Jer 3:10; Hosea 7:14,16). Thus doing, his soul
hates [them]; but the penitent, humble, broken-hearted sinner, be his transgressions red as
scarlet, red like crimson, in number as the sand; though his transgressions cry to heaven against
him for vengeance, and seem there to cry louder than do his prayers, or tears, or groans for
mercy; yet he is safe. To this man God will look (Isa 1:18; 66:2).

Seventh, Would Jesus Christ have mercy offered, in the first place, to the biggest sinners?
Then here is ground for those that, as to practice, have not been such, to come to him for mercy.

Although there is no sin little of itself, because it is a contradiction of the nature and
majesty of God, yet we must admit of divers numbers, and, also, of aggravations. Two sins are
not so many as three; nor are three that are done in ignorance so big as one that is done against
light, against knowledge and conscience. Also, there is the child in sin, and a man in sin
that has his hairs gray and his skin wrinkled for very age. And we must put a difference betwixt
these sinners also; for can it be that a child of seven, or ten, or sixteen years old, should
be such a sinner--a sinner so vile in the eyes of the law as he is who has walked according
to the course of this world, forty, fifty, sixty, or seventy years? Now, the youth, this stripling,
though he is a sinner, is but a little sinner, when compared with such. Now, I say, if there
be room for the first sort, for those of the biggest size, certainly there is room for the
lesser size. If there be a door wide enough for a giant to go in at, there is certainly room
for a dwarf. If Christ Jesus has grace enough to save great sinners, he has surely grace enough
to save little ones. If he can forgive five hundred pence, for certain he can forgive fifty
(Luke 7:41,42).

But you said before, that the little sinners must stand by until the great ones have received
their grace, and that is discouraging! I answer, there are two sorts of little sinners--such
as are so, and such as feign themselves so. There are those that feign themselves so, that
I intended there, and not those that are, indeed, comparatively so. Such as feign themselves
so, may wait long enough before they obtain forgiveness.

But again, a sinner may be comparatively a little sinner, and sensibly a great one. There are,
then, two sorts of greatness in sin--greatness by reason of number; greatness by reason of
thoroughness of conviction of the horrible nature of sin. In this last sense, he that has but
one sin, if such an one could be found, may, in his own eyes, find himself the biggest sinner
in the world. Let this man or this child, therefore, put himself among the great sinners, and
plead with God as great sinners do, and expect to be saved with the great sinners, and as soon
and as heartily as they. Yea, a little sinner, that, comparatively, is truly so, if he shall
graciously give way to conviction, and shall, in God's light, diligently weigh the horrible
nature of his own sin, may yet sooner obtain forgiveness for them at the hands of the heavenly
Father, than he that has ten times his sins, and so cause to cry ten times harder to God for mercy.

For the grievousness of the cry is a great thing with God; for if he will hear the widow, if
she cries at all, how much more if she cries most grievously? (Exo 22:22,23). It is not the
number, but the true sense of the abominable nature of sin, that makes the cry for pardon lamentable.
30 He, as I said, that has many sins, may not cry so loud in the ears of God as he that has
far fewer; he, in our present sense, that is in his own eyes the biggest sinner, is he that
soonest findeth mercy. The offer, then, is to the biggest sinner; to the biggest sinner first,
and the mercy is first obtained by him that first confesseth himself to be such an one.

There are men that strive at the throne of grace for mercy, by pleading the greatness of their
necessity. Now their plea, as to the prevalency of it, lieth not in their counting up of the
number, but in the sense of the greatness of their sins, and in the vehemency of their cry
for pardon. And it is observable, that though the birthright was Reuben's, and, for his foolishness,
given to the sons of Joseph, yet Judah prevailed above his brethren, and of him came the Messiah
(1 Chron 5:1,2). There is a heavenly subtilty to be managed in this matter. 'Thy brother came
with subtilty, and hath taken away thy blessing.' The blessing belonged to Esau, but Jacob
by his diligence made it his own (Gen 27:35). The offer is to the biggest sinner, to the biggest
sinner first; but if he forbear to cry, the sinner that is a sinner less by far than he, both
as to number and the nature of transgression, may get the blessing first, if he shall have
grace to bestir himself well; for the loudest cry is heard furthest, and the most lamentable
pierces soonest.

I therefore urge this head, not because I would have little sinners go and tell God that they
are little sinners, thereby to think to obtain his mercy; for, verily, so they are never like
to have it; for such words declare, that such an one hath no true sense at all of the nature
of his sins. Sin, as I said, in the nature of it, is horrible, though it be but one single
sin as to act; yea, though it be but a sinful thought; and so worthily calls for the damnation
of the soul. The comparison, then, of little and great sinners, is to go for good sense among
men. But to plead the fewness of thy sins, or the comparative harmlessness of their quantity
before God, argueth no sound knowledge of the nature of thy sin, and so no true sense of the
nature or need of mercy.

Little sinner! when therefore thou goest to God, though thou knowest in thy conscience that
thou, as to acts, art no thief, no murderer, no whore, no liar, no false swearer, or the like,
and in reason must needs understand that thus thou art not so profanely vile as others; yet
when thou goest to God for mercy, know no man's sins but thine own, make mention of no man's
sins but thine own. Also labour not to lessen thy own, but magnify and greaten them by all
just circumstances, and be as if there was never a sinner in the world but thyself. Also cry
out, as if thou wast but the only undone man; and that is the way to obtain God's mercy.

It is one of the comeliest sights in the world to see a little sinner commenting upon the greatness
of his sins, multiplying and multiplying them to himself, till he makes them in his own eyes
bigger and higher than he seeth any other man's sins to be in the world; and as base a thing
it is to see a man do otherwise, and as basely will come on it (Luke 18:10-14). As, therefore,
I said to the great sinner before, let him take heed lest he presume; I say now to the little
sinner, let him take heed that he do not dissemble; for there is as great an aptness in the
little sinner to dissemble, as there is in the great one. 'He that hideth his sins shall not
prosper,'31 be he a sinner little or great (Prov 28:13).

The Father and the Holy Spirit are well spoken of by all deluders and deceived persons; Christ
only is the rock of offence. Not that Satan careth for the Father or the Spirit more than he
careth for the Son; but he can let men alone with their notions of the Father and the Spirit,
for he knows they shall never enjoy the Father or the Spirit, if indeed they receive not the
merits of the Son. 'He that hath the Son, hath life; he that hath not the Son of God hath not
life,' however they may boast themselves of the Father and the Spirit (1 John 5:12). Again,
'Whosoever transgresseth, and abideth not in the doctrine of Christ, hath not God. He that
abideth in the doctrine of Christ, he hath both the Father and the Son' (2 John 9). Christ,
and Christ only, is he that can make us capable to enjoy God with life and joy to all eternity.
Hence he calls himself the way to the Father, the true and living way (John 14:6). For we cannot
come to the Father but by him (Heb 10:19,20). Satan knows this, therefore he hates him. Deluded
persons are ignorant of this, and therefore, they are so led up and down by Satan by the nose
as they are.

There are many things by which Satan has taken occasion to greaten his rage against Jesus Christ.
As, first, His love to man, and then, the many expressions of that love. He hath taken man's
nature upon him; he hath in that nature fulfilled the law to bring in righteousness for man;
and hath spilt his blood for the reconciling of man to God; he hath broke the neck of death,
put away sin, destroyed the works of the devil, and got into his own hands the keys of death;
and all these are heinous things to Satan. He cannot abide Christ for this. Besides, He hath
eternal life in himself, and that to bestow upon us; and we in all likelihood are to possess
the very places from which the Satans by transgression fell, if not places more glorious. Wherefore
he must needs be angry. And is it not a vexatious thing to him, that we should be admitted
to the throne of grace by Christ, while he stands bound over in chains of darkness, to answer
for his rebellions against God and his Son, at the terrible day of judgment. Yea, we poor dust
and ashes must become his judges, and triumph over him for ever: and all this long32 of Jesus
Christ; for he is the meritorious cause of all this.

Now though Satan seeks to be revenged for this, yet he knows it is in vain to attack the person
of Christ; He [Christ] has overcome him; therefore he [Satan] tampers with a company of silly
men; that he may vilify him by them. And they, bold fools as they are, will not spare to spit
in his face. They will rail at his person, and deny the very being of it; they will rail at
his blood, and deny the merit and worth of it. They will deny the very end why he accomplished
the law, and by jiggs, and tricks, and quirks, which he helpeth them to, they set up fond names
and images in his place, and give the glory of a Saviour to them. Thus Satan worketh under
the name of Christ; and his ministers under the name of the ministers of righteousness.

And by his wiles and stratagems he undoes a world of men; but there is a seed, and they shall
serve him, and it shall be counted to the Lord for a generation. These shall see their sins,
and that Christ is the way to happiness. These shall venture themselves, both body and soul,
upon his worthiness. All this Satan knows, and therefore his rage is kindled the more. Wherefore,
according to his ability and allowance, he assaulteth, tempteth, abuseth, and stirs up what
he can to be hurtful to these poor people, that he may, while his time shall last, make it
as hard and difficult for them to go to eternal glory as he can. Ofttimes he abuses them with
wrong apprehensions of God, and with wrong apprehensions of Christ. He bedaubeth us with his
own foam, and then tempts us to believe that that bedaubing comes from ourselves.33

Oh! the rage and the roaring of this lion, and the hatred that he manifests against the Lord
Jesus, and against them that are purchased with his blood! But yet, in the midst of all this,
the Lord Jesus sends forth his herald to proclaim in the nations his love to the world, and
to invite them to come in to him for life. Yea, his invitation is so large, that it offereth
his mercy in the first place to the biggest sinners of every age, which augments the devil's
rage the more. Wherefore, as I said before, fret he, fume he, the Lord Jesus will 'divide the
spoil' with this great one; yea, he shall divide the spoil with the strong, 'because he hath
poured out his soul unto death, and he was numbered with the transgressors; and he bare the
sin of many, and made intercession for the transgressors' (Isa 53:12).

Ninth, Would Jesus Christ have mercy offered, in the first place, to the biggest sinners? Let
the tempted harp upon this string for their help and consolation.

The tempted, wherever he dwells, always thinks himself the biggest sinner, one most unworthy
of eternal life. And all this while Christ says to his ministers, offer mercy, in the first
place, to the biggest sinners. So that this temptation drives thee directly into the arms of
Jesus Christ.

And this is the meaning of Peter, when he saith, 'Resist him steadfast in the faith' (1 Peter
5:9). Wherefore is it said, Begin at Jerusalem, if the Jerusalem sinner is not to have the
benefit of it? And if I am to have the benefit of it, let me call it to mind when Satan haunts
me with continual remembrance of my sins, of my Jerusalem sins. Satan and my conscience say
I am the biggest sinner:--Christ offereth mercy, in the first place, to the biggest sinners!
Nor is the manner of the offer other but such as suiteth with my mind. I am sorry for my sin;
yea, sorry at my heart that ever sinful thought did enter, or find the least entertainment
in my wicked mind: and might I obtain my wish, I would never more that my heart should be a
place for ought but the grace, and spirit, and faith of the Lord Jesus. I speak not this to
lessen my wickedness; I would not for all the world but be placed by mine own conscience in
the very front of the biggest sinners, that I might be one of the first that are beckoned,
by the gracious hand of Jesus the Saviour, to come to him for mercy.

Well, sinner, thou now speakest like a Christian; but say thus, in a strong spirit, in the
hour of temptation, and then thou wilt, to thy commendation and comfort, quit thyself well.
This improving of Christ, in dark hours, is the life, though the hardest part of our Christianity.
We should neither stop at darkness nor at the raging of our lusts, but go on in a way of venturing,
and casting the whole of our affairs for the next world at the foot of Jesus Christ. This is
the way to make the darkness light, and also to allay the raging of corruption.

The first time the Passover was eaten was in the night; and when Israel took courage to go
forward, though the sea stood in their way like a devouring gulf, and the host of the Egyptians
follow them at the heels; yet the sea gives place, and their enemies were as still as a stone
till they were gone over (Exo 12:8; 14:13,14,21,22; 15:16).

There is nothing like faith to help at a pinch; faith dissolves doubts as the sun drives away
the mists. And that you may not be put out, know your time, as I said, of believing is always.
There are times when some graces may be out of use, but there is no time wherein faith can
be said to be so. Wherefore, faith must be always in exercise. Faith is the eye, is the mouth,
is the hand, and one of these is of use all day long. Faith is to see, to receive, to work,
or to eat; and a Christian should be seeing, or receiving, or working, or feeding all day long.
Let it rain, let it blow, let it thunder, let it lighten, a Christian must still believe. At
'what time,' said the good man, 'I am afraid, I will trust in thee' (Psa 56:2,3).

Nor can we have a better encouragement to do this than is, by the text, set before us; even
an open heart for a Jerusalem sinner. And if for a Jerusalem sinner to come, then for such
an one when come. If for such an one to be saved, then for such an one that is saved. If for
such an one to be pardoned his great transgressions, then for such an one who is pardoned these
to come daily to Jesus Christ too, to be cleansed and set free from his common infirmities,
and from the iniquities of his holy things. Therefore, let the poor sinner that would be saved
labour for skill to make the best improvement of the grace of Christ to help him against the
temptations of the devil and his sins.

Tenth, Would Jesus Christ have mercy offered, in the first place, to the biggest sinners? Let
those men consider this that have, or may, in a day of trial, spoken or done what their profession
or conscience told them they should not, and that have the guilt and burden thereof upon their
consciences.

Whether a thing be wrong or right, guilt may pursue him that doth contrary to his conscience.
But suppose a man should deny his God, or his Christ, or relinquish a good profession, and
be under the real guilt thereof, shall he, therefore, conclude he is gone for ever? Let him
come again with Peter's tears, and no doubt but he shall obtain Peter's forgiveness; for the
text includes the biggest sinners. And it is observable, that before this clause was put into
this commission, Peter was pardoned his horrible revolt from his Master. He that revolteth
in the day of trial, if he is not shot quite dead upon the place, but is sensible of his wound,
and calls out for a chirurgeon, shall find his Lord at hand to pour wine and oil into his wounds,
that he may again be healed, and to encourage him to think that there may be mercy for him;
besides what we find recorded of Peter, you read in the Acts, some were, through the violence
of their trials, compelled to blaspheme, and yet are called saints (Acts 26:9-11).

Hence you have a promise or two that speak concerning such kind of men, to encourage us to
think that, at least, some of them shall come back to the Lord their God. 'Shall they fall,'
saith he, 'and not arise? Shall he turn away, and not return?' (Jer 8:4). 'and in that day
will I assemble her that halteth, and I will gather her that is driven out, and her that I
have afflicted. And I will make her that halted a remnant, and her that was cast far off a
strong nation; and the Lord shall reign over them in Mount Zion--for ever.' What we are to
understand by her that halteth, is best expressed by the prophet Elijah (Micah 4:6,7; Zeph
3:19; 1 Kings 18:21).

I will conclude, then, that for them that have halted, or may halt, the Lord has mercy in the
bank,35 and is willing to accept them if they return to him again. Perhaps they may never be
after that of any great esteem in the house of God, but if the Lord will admit them to favour
and forgiveness--O exceeding and undeserved mercy! (See Ezekiel 44:10-14). Thou, then, that
mayest be the man, remember this, that there is mercy also for thee. Return, therefore, to
God, and to his Son, who hath yet in store for thee, and who will do thee good.

But, perhaps, thou wilt say, He doth not save all revolters, and, therefore, perhaps not me.
Answer. Art thou returning to God? If thou art returning, thou art the man; 'Return, ye backsliding
children, and I will heal your backslidings' (Jer 3:22).

Some, as I said, that revolt, are shot dead upon the place; and for them, who can help them?
But for them that cry out of their wounds it is a sign that they are yet alive, and, if they
use the means in time, doubtless they may be healed.

Christ Jesus has bags of mercy that were never yet broken up or unsealed. Hence it is said,
he has goodness laid up; things reserved in heaven for his. And if he breaks up one of these
bags, who can tell what he can do? Hence his love is said to be such as passeth knowledge,
and that his riches are unsearchable. He has, nobody knows what; for nobody knows who! He has
by him, in store, for such as seem, in the view of all men, to be gone beyond recovery. For
this, the text is plain. What man or angel could have thought that the Jerusalem sinners had
been yet on this side of an impossibility of enjoying life and mercy? Hadst thou seen their
actions, and what horrible things they did to the Son of God; yea, how stoutly they backed
what they did with resolves and endeavours to persevere, when they had killed his person, against
his name and doctrine; and that there was not found among them all that while, as we read of,
the least remorse or regret for these their doings; couldest though have imagined that mercy
would ever have took hold of them, at least so soon! Nay, that they should, of all the world,
be counted those only meet to have it offered to them in the very first place! For so my text
commands, saying, Preach repentance and remission of sins among all nations, beginning at Jerusalem.

I tell you the thing is a wonder, and must for ever stand for a wonder among the sons of men.
It stands, also, for an everlasting invitation and allurement to the biggest sinners to come
to Christ for mercy. Now since, in the opinion of all men, the revolter is such an one; if
he has, as I said before, any life in him, let him take encouragement to come again, that he
may live by Christ.

Eleventh, Would Jesus Christ have mercy offered, in the first place, to the biggest sinners?
Then let God's ministers tell them so. There is an incidence36 in us, I know not how it doth
come about, when we are converted, to contemn them that are left behind. Poor fools as we are,
we forget that we ourselves were so (Titus 3:2,3).

But would it not become us better, since we have tasted that the Lord is gracious, to carry
it towards them so, that we may give them convincing ground to believe that we have found that
mercy which also sets open the door for them to come and partake with us. Ministers, I say,
should do thus, both by their doctrine, and in all other respects. Austerity doth not become
us, neither in doctrine nor in conversation.37 We ourselves live by grace; let us give as we
receive, and labour to persuade our fellow-sinners, which God has left behind us, to follow
after, that they may partake with us of grace. We are saved by grace; let us live like them
that are gracious. Let all our things, to the world, be done in charity towards them; pity
them, pray for them, be familiar with them, for their good. Let us lay aside our foolish, worldly,
carnal grandeur; let us not walk the streets, and have such behaviours as signify we are scarce
for touching of the poor ones that are left behind; no, not with a pair of tongs. It becomes
not ministers thus to do.

[A gentle reproof.]

Remember your Lord, he was familiar with publicans and sinners to a proverb: 'Behold a man
gluttonous, and a wine-bibber, a friend of publicans and sinners' (Matt 11:19). The first part,
concerning his gluttonous eating and drinking, to be sure, was an horrible slander; but for
the other, nothing was ever spoke truer of him by the world. Now, why should we lay hands cross
on this text; that is, choose good victuals, and love the sweet wine better than the salvation
of the poor publican? Why not familiar with sinners, provided we hate their spots and blemishes,
and seek that they may be healed of them? Why not fellowly with our carnal neighbours? If we
do take occasion to do so, that we may drop, and be yet distilling some good doctrine upon
their souls? Why not go to the poor man's house, and give him a penny, and a Scripture to think
upon? Why not send for the poor to fetch away, at least, the fragments of thy table, that the
bowels of thy fellow-sinner may be refreshed as well as thine?

Ministers should be exemplary; but I am an inferior man, and must take heed of too much meddling.
But might I, I would meddle with them, with their wives, and with their children too. I mean
not this of all, but of them that deserve it, though I may not name them. But, I say, let ministers
follow the steps of their blessed Lord, who, by word and deed, showed his love to the salvation
of the world, in such a carriage as declared him to prefer their salvation before his own private
concern. For we are commanded to follow his steps, 'who did no sin, neither was guile found
in his mouth.'

And as I have said concerning ministers, so I say to all the brethren, Carry it so, that all
the world may see, that indeed you are the sons of love. Love your Saviour; yea, show one to
another that you love him, not only by a seeming love of affection, but with the love of duty.
Practical love is best.38 Many love Christ with nothing but the lick of the tongue. Alas! Christ
Jesus the Lord must not be put off thus; 'He that hath my commandments, and keepeth them,'
saith he, 'he it is that loveth me' (John 14:21). Practical love, which stands in self-denial,
in charity to my neighbour, and a patient enduring of affliction for his name; this is counted
love. Right love to Christ is that which carries in it a provoking argument to others of the
brethren (Heb 10:24). Love to God and Christ is then shown, when we are tender of his name;
and then we show ourselves tender of his name, when we are afraid to break any, the least of
his commandments. And when we are here, then do we show our love to our brother also.

[The Conclusion.]

Now, we have obligation sufficient thus to do, for that our Lord loved us, and gave himself
for us, to deliver us from death, that we might live through him. And, I say, let the love
of Christ constrain us to this. Who deserveth our heart, our mouth, our life, our goods, so
much as Jesus Christ, who has bought us to himself by his blood, to this very end, that we
should be a peculiar people, zealous of good works?

There is nothing more seemly in the world than to see a Christian walk as becomes the gospel;
nor anything more unbecoming a reasonable creature, than to hear a man say, 'I believe in Christ,'
and yet see in his life debauchery and profaneness. Might I, such men should be counted the
basest of men; such men should be counted by all unworthy of the name of a Christian, and should
be shunned by every good man, as such who are the very plague of profession. For so it is written,
we should carry it towards them. Whoso have a form of godliness, and deny the power thereof,
from such we must turn away.

It has ofttimes come into my mind to ask, By what means it is that the gospel profession should
be so tainted39 with loose and carnal gospellers? and I could never arrive to better satisfaction
in the matter than this--such men are made professors by the devil, and so by him put among
the rest of the godly. A certain man had a fruitless fig tree planted in his vineyard; but
by whom was it planted there? even by him that sowed the tares, his own children, among the
wheat (Luke 13:6; Matt 13:37-40). And that was the devil. But why doth the devil do thus? Not
of love to them, but to make of them offences and stumbling-blocks to others. For he knows
that a loose professor in the church does more mischief to religion than ten can do to it that
are in the world. Was it not, think you, the devil that stirred up the damsel that you read
of in Acts 16 to cry out, 'These men are the servants of the most high God, which show unto
us the way of salvation?' Yes it was, as is evident, for Paul was grieved to hear it. But why
did the devil stir up her to cry so, but because that was the way to blemish the gospel, and
to make the world think that it came from the same hand as did her soothsaying and witchery?
(verse 16-18). 'Holiness, O Lord, becomes thy house for ever.' Let, therefore, whoever they
be that profess the name of Christ, take heed that they scandal not that profession which they
make of him, since he has so graciously offered us, as we are sinners of the biggest size,
in the first place, his grace to save us.

[Answers to Objections.]

Having thus far spoken of the riches of the grace of Christ, and of the freeness of his heart
to embrace the Jerusalem sinners, it may not be amiss to give you yet, as a caution, an intimation
of one thing, namely, that this grace and freeness of his heart, is limited to time and day;
the which, whoso overstandeth, shall perish notwithstanding. For, as a king, who, of grace,
sendeth out to his rebellious people an offer of pardon, if they accept thereof by such a day,
yet beheadeth or hangeth those that come not in for mercy until the day or time be past; so
Christ Jesus has set the sinner a day, a day of salvation, an acceptable time; but he who standeth
out, or goeth on in rebellion beyond that time, is like to come off with the loss of his soul
(2 Cor 6:2; Heb 3:13-19; 4:7; Luke 19:41,42). Since, therefore, things are thus, it may be
convenient here to touch a little upon these particulars.

First, That this day, or time thus limited, when it is considered with reference to this or
that man, is ofttimes undiscerned by the person concerned therein, and always is kept secret
as to the shutting up thereof.

And this, in the wisdom of God is thus, to the end no man, when called upon, should put off
turning to God to another time. Now, and TODAY, is that and only that which is revealed in
holy Writ (Psa 50:22; Eccl 12:1; Heb 3:13,15). And this shows us the desperate hazards which
those men run, who, when invitation or conviction attends them, put off turning to God to be
saved till another, and, as they think, a more fit season and time. For many, by so doing,
defer this to do till the day of God's patience and long-suffering is ended; and then, for
their prayers and cries after mercy, they receive nothing but mocks, and are laughed at by
the God of heaven (Prov 1:20-30; Isa 65:12-16; 66:4; Zech 7:11-13).

Secondly, Another thing to be considered is this, namely, That the day of God's grace with
some men begins sooner, and also sooner ends, than it doth with others. Those at the first
hour of the day, had their call sooner than they who were called upon to turn to God at the
sixth hour of the day; yea, and they who were hired at the third hour, had their call sooner
than they who were called at the eleventh (Matt 20:1-6).

1. The day of God's patience began with Ishmael, and also ended before he was twenty years
old. At thirteen years of age he was circumcised; the next year after, Isaac was born; and
then Ishmael was fourteen years old. Now, that day that Isaac was weaned, that day was Ishmael
rejected; and suppose that Isaac was three years old before he was weaned, that was but the
seventeenth year of Ishmael; wherefore the day of God's grace was ended with him betimes (Gen
17:25; 21:2-11; Gal 4:30).

2. Cain's day ended with him betimes; for, after God had rejected him, he lived to beget many
children, and build a city, and to do many other things. But, alas! all that while he was a
fugitive and a vagabond. Nor carried he anything with him after the day of his rejection was
come, but this doleful language in his conscience. 'From God's face shall I be hid' (Gen 4:10-15).

3. Esau, through his extravagancies, would needs go sell his birthright, not fearing, as other
confident fools, but that yet the blessing would still be his.

Many instances might be given as to such tokens of the displeasure of God against such as fool
away, as the wise man has it, the prize which is put into their hand (Prov 17:16).

Let these things, therefore, be a further caution to those that sit under the glorious sound
of the gospel, and hear of the riches of the grace of God in Christ to poor sinners. To slight
grace, to despise mercy, and to stop the ear when God speaks, when he speaks such great things,
so much to our profit, is a great provocation. He offereth, he calls, he woos, he invites,
he prays, he beseeches us in this day of his grace to be reconciled to him; yea, and has provided
for us the means of reconciliation himself.

Objection. But some man may say unto me, 'Fain I would be saved, fain I would be saved by Christ;
but I fear this day of grace is past, and that I shall perish, notwithstanding the exceeding
riches of the grace of God.'

Answer. To this doubt I would answer several things. 1. With respect to this day. 2. With respect
to thy desires. 3. With respect to thy fears.

1. With respect to this day; that is, whether it be ended with a man or no.

(1.) Art thou jogged, and shaken, and molested at the hearing of the Word? Is thy conscience
awakened and convinced then, that thou art at present in a perishing state, and that thou hast
need to cry to God for mercy? This is a hopeful sign that this day of grace is not past with
thee. For, usually, they that are past grace, are also, in their conscience, 'past feeling,'
b eing 'seared with a hot iron' (Eph 4:18,19; 1 Tim 4:1,2). Consequently, those past grace
must be such as are denied the awakening fruits of the Word preached. The dead that hear, says
Christ, shall live; at least wise,40 Christ has not quite done with them; the day of God's
patience is not at an end with them (John 5:25).

(2.) Is there, in thy more retired condition, arguings, strugglings, and strivings with thy
spirit to persuade thee of the vanity of what vain things thou lovest, and to win thee in thy
soul to a choice of Christ Jesus and his heavenly things? Take heed and rebel not, for the
day of God's grace and patience will not be past with thee till he saith, his 'Spirit shall
strive no more' with thee; for then the woe comes, when he shall depart from them; and when
he says to the means of grace, Let them alone (Hosea 4:17; 9:12).

(3.) Art thou visited in the night seasons with dreams about thy state, and that thou art in
danger of being lost? Hast thou heart-shaken apprehensions when deep sleep is upon thee, of
hell, death, and judgment to come? These are signs that God has not wholly left thee, or cast
thee behind his back for ever. All this while God has not left the sinner, nor is come to the
end of his patience towards him, but stands, at least, with the door of grace ajar in his hand,
as being loath, as yet, to bolt it against him.

(4.) Art thou followed with affliction, and dost thou hear God's angry voice in thy afflictions?
Doth he send with the affliction an interpreter, to show thee thy vileness; and why, or wherefore,
that hand of God is upon thee, and upon what thou hast; to wit, that it is for thy sinning
against him, and that thou mightest be turned to him? If so, thy summer is not quite ended;
thy harvest is not yet quite over and gone.

(5.) Art thou crossed, disappointed, and waylaid, and overthrown in all thy foolish ways and
doings? This is a sign God has not quite left thee, but that he still waits upon thee to turn
thee. Consider, I say, has he made a hedge and a wall to stop thee? Has he crossed thee in
all thou puttest thy hand unto? Take it as a call to turn to him; for, by his thus doing, he
shows he has a mind to give thee a better portion. For usually, when God gives up men, and
resolves to let them alone in the broad way, he gives them rope, and lets them have their desires
in all hurtful things (Hosea 2:6-15; Psa 73:3-13; Rom 11:9). Therefore take heed to this also,
that thou strive not against this hand of God; but betake thyself to a serious inquiry into
the causes of this hand of God upon thee, and incline to think, it is because the Lord would
have thee look to that, which is better than what thou wouldst satisfy thyself withal. When
God had a mind to make the prodigal go home to his father, he sent a famine upon him, and denied
him a bellyful of the husks which the swine did eat. And observe it, now he was in a strait,
he betook him to consideration of the good that there was in his father's house; yea, he resolved
to go home to his father, and his father dealt well with him; he received him with music and
dancing, because he had received him safe and sound (Luke 15:14-32).

(6.) Hast thou any enticing touches of the Word of God upon thy mind? Doth, as it were, some
holy word of God give a glance upon thee, cast a smile upon thee, let fall, though it be but
one drop of its savour upon thy spirit; yea, though it stays but one moment with thee? O then
the day of grace is not past! The gate of heaven is not shut! nor God's heart and bowels withdrawn
from thee as yet. Take heed, therefore, and beware that thou make much of the heavenly gift,
and of that good word of God of the which he has made thee taste. Beware, I say, and take heed;
there may be a falling away for all this; but, I say, as yet God has not left thee, as yet
he has not cast thee off (Heb 6:1-9).

2. With respect to thy desires, what are they? Wouldst thou be saved? Wouldst thou be saved
with a thorough salvation? Wouldst thou be saved from guilt and filth too? Wouldst thou be
the servant of thy Saviour? Art thou indeed weary of the service of thy old master the devil,
sin, and the world? And have these desires put thy soul to the flight? Hast thou, through desires,
betaken thyself to thy heels? Dost fly to him that is a Saviour from the wrath to come, for
life? If these be thy desires, and if they be unfeigned, fear not! Thou are one of those runaways
which God has commanded our Lord to receive, and not to send thee back to the devil thy master
again, but to give thee a place in his house, even the place which liketh thee best.

This is a command to the church, consequently to the Head of the church; for all commands from
God come to her through her Head. Whence I conclude, that as Israel of old was to receive the
runaway servant who escaped from a heathen master to them, and should not dare to send him
back to his master again; so Christ's church now, and consequently Christ himself, may not,
will not, refuse that soul that has made his escape from sin, Satan, the world, and hell, unto
him, but will certainly let him dwell in his house, among his saints, in that place which he
shall choose, even where it liketh him best. For he says, in another place, 'And him that cometh
to me, I will in no wise cast out.' In no wise, let his crimes be what they will, either for
nature, multitude, or the attendance of aggravating circumstances. Wherefore, if thy desires
be firm, sound, and unfeigned to become the saved of Christ, and his servant, fear not, he
will not, he will in no wise put thee away, or turn thee over to thy old master again.

3. As to thy fears, whatever they are, let that be supposed which is supposed before, and they
are groundless, and so of no weight.

Objection. But I am afraid I am not [of the] elect, or chosen to salvation, though you called
me fool a little before for so fearing.

Answer. Though election is, in order, before calling, as to God, yet the knowledge of calling
must go before the belief of my election, as to myself. Wherefore, souls that doubt of the
truth of their effectual calling, do but plunge themselves into a deeper labyrinth of confusion
that concern themselves with their election; I mean, while they labour to know it before they
prove their calling. 'Make your calling, and so your election sure' (2 Peter 1:4-10).

Wherefore, at present, lay the thoughts of thy election by, and ask thyself these questions:
Do I see my lost condition? Do I see salvation is nowhere but in Christ? Would I share in this
salvation by faith in him? And would I, as was said before, be thoroughly saved, to wit, from
the filth as from the guilt? Do I love Christ, his Father, his saints, his words, and ways?
This is the way to prove we are elect. Wherefore, sinner, when Satan, or thine own heart, seeks
to puzzle thee with election, say thou, I cannot attend to talk of this point now, but stay
till I know that I am called of God to the fellowship of his Son, and then I will show you
that I am elect, and that my name is written in the book of life.

If poor distressed souls would observe this order, they might save themselves the trouble of
an unprofitable labour under these unseasonable and soul-sinking doubts. 41

Let us, therefore, upon the sight of our wretchedness, fly and venturously leap into the arms
of Christ, which are now as open to receive us into his bosom as they were when nailed to the
cross. This is coming to Christ for life aright; this is right running away from thy [old]
master to him, as was said before. And for this we have multitudes of Scriptures to support,
encourage, and comfort us in our so doing.

But now, let him that doth thus be sure to look for it, for Satan will be with him tomorrow,
to see if he can get him again to his old service; and if he cannot do that, then will he enter
into dispute with him, to wit, about whether he be elect to life, and called indeed to partake
of this Christ, to whom he is fled for succour, or whether he comes to him of his own presumptuous
mind. Therefore we are bid, as to come, so to arm ourselves with that armour which God has
provided; that we may resist, quench, stand against, and withstand all the fiery darts of the
devil (Eph 6:11-18). If, therefore, thou findest Satan in this order to march against thee,
remember that thou hadst this item about it; and betake thyself to faith and good courage,
and be sober, and hope to the end.

Objection. But how if I should have sinned the sin unpardonable, or that called the sin against
the Holy Ghost?

Answer. If thou hast, thou art lost for ever; but yet before it is concluded by thee that thou
hast so sinned, know that they that would be saved by Jesus Christ, through faith in his blood,
cannot be counted for such.

1. Because of the promise, for that must not be frustrate: and that says, 'And him that cometh
to Christ, he will in no wise cast out.' And again, 'Whoso will, let him take of the water
of life freely' (John 6:37; Rev 21:6; 22:17).

But, I say, how can these Scriptures be fulfilled, if he that would indeed be saved, as before
said, has sinned the sin unpardonable? The Scripture must not be made void, nor their truth
be cast to the ground. Here is a promise, and here is a sinner; a promise that says he shall
not be cast out that comes; and the sinner comes, wherefore he must be received: consequently,
he that comes to Christ for life, has not, cannot have sinned that sin for which there is no
forgiveness. And this might suffice for an answer to any coming soul, that fears, though he
comes, that he has sinned the sin against the Holy Ghost.

2. But, again, he that has sinned the sin against the Holy Ghost cannot come, has no heart
to come, can by no means be made willing to come to Jesus Christ for life; for that he has
received such an opinion of him, and of his things, as deters and holds him back.

(1.) He counteth this blessed person, this Son of God, a magician, a conjuror, a witch, or
one that did, when he was in the world, what he did, by the power and spirit of the devil (Matt
9:34; 12:24,25,&c.; Mark 3:22-30). Now he that has this opinion of this Jesus, cannot be willing
to cast himself at his feet for life, or to come to him as the only way to God and to salvation.
And hence it is said again, that such an one puts him to open shame, and treadeth him under
foot; that is, by contemning, reproaching, vilifying, and despising of him, as if he were the
vilest one, or the greatest cheat in the world; and has, therefore, as to his esteem of him,
called him accursed, crucified him to himself, or counted him one hanged, as one of the worst
of malefactors (Heb 6:6; 10:29; 1 Cor 12:3).

(2.) His blood, which is the meritorious cause of man's redemption, even the blood of the everlasting
covenant, he counteth 'an unholy thing,' or that which has no more virtue in it to save a soul
from sin than has the blood of a dog (Heb 10:29).42 For when the apostle says, 'he counts it
an unholy thing,' he means, he makes it of less value than that of a sheep or cow, which were
clean according to the law; and, therefore, must mean, that his blood was of no more worth
to him, in his account, than was the blood of a dog, an ass, or a swine, which always was,
as to sacrifices, rejected by the God of heaven, as unholy or unclean. Now he who has no better
esteem of Jesus Christ, and of his death and blood, will not be persuaded to come to him for
life, or to trust in him for salvation.

(3.) But further, all this must be done against manifest tokens to prove the contrary, or after
the shining of gospel light upon the soul, or some considerable profession of him as the Messiah,
or that he was the Saviour of the world.

(a.) It must be done against manifest tokens to prove the contrary; and thus the reprobate
Jews committed it when they saw the works of God, which put forth themselves in him, and called
them the works of the devil and Beelzebub.

(b.) It must be done against some shining light of the gospel upon them. And thus it was with
Judas, and with those who, after they were enlightened, and had tasted, and had felt something
of the powers of the world to come, fell away from the faith of him, and put him to open shame
and disgrace (Heb 6:5,6).

(c.) It must also be done after, and in opposition to one's own open profession of him. For
if, after they have escaped the pollution of the world, through the knowledge of our Lord and
Saviour Jesus Christ, they are again entangled therein, and overcome, the latter end is worse
with them than the beginning; for it had been better for them not to have know the way of righteousness,
than after they have known it, to turn from the holy commandment, which is the word of faith
delivered unto them.

(d.) All this must be done openly, before witnesses, in the face, sight, and view of the world,
by word and act. This is the sin that is unpardonable; and he that hath thus done, can never,
it is impossible he ever should, be renewed again to repentance, and that for a double reason;
first, such an one doth say, he will not; and [second] of him God says, he shall not have the
benefit of salvation by him.

Objection. But if this be the sin unpardonable, why is it called the sin against the Holy Ghost,
and not rather the sin against the Son of God?

Answer. It is called 'the sin against the Holy Ghost,' because such count the works he did,
which were done by the Spirit of God, the works of the spirit of the devil. Also because all
such as so reject Christ Jesus the Lord, they do it in despite of that testimony which the
Holy Ghost has given of him in the holy Scriptures; for the Scriptures are the breathings of
the Holy Ghost, as in all other things, so in that testimony they bear of the person, of the
works, sufferings, resurrection, and ascension of Jesus Christ.

Sinner, this is the sin against the Holy Ghost. What sayest thou? Hast thou committed it? Nay,
I know thou hast not, if thou wouldst be saved by Christ. Yea, it is impossible that thou shouldst
have done it, if indeed thou wouldst be saved by him. No man can desire to be saved by him,
who he yet judgeth to be an impostor, a magician, a witch. No man can hope for redemption by
that blood which he yet counteth an unholy thing. Nor will God ever suffer such an one to repent,
who has, after light and profession of him, thus horribly, and devil-like, contemned and trampled
upon him.

True, words, and wars, and blasphemies, against this Son of man, are pardonable; but then they
must be done 'ignorantly, and in unbelief.' Also, all blasphemous thoughts are likewise such
as may be passed by, if the soul afflicted with them, indeed is sorry for them (1 Tim 1:13-15;
Mark 3:28).

All but this, sinner, all but this! If God had said, he will forgive one sin, it had been undeserved
grace; but when he says he will pardon all but one, this is grace to the height. Nor is that
one unpardonable otherwise, but because the Saviour that should save them is rejected and put
away. Jacob's ladder; Christ is Jacob's ladder that reacheth up to heaven; and he that refuseth
to go by this ladder thither, will scarce by other means get up so high. There is none other
name given under heaven, among men, whereby we must be saved. There is none other sacrifice
for sin than this; he also, and he only, is the Mediator that reconcileth men to God. And,
sinner, if thou wouldst be saved by him, his benefits are thine; yea, though thou art a great
and Jerusalem transgressor.43

FOOTNOTES:

1 Having preached many times, and from various texts, upon this subject, the whole substance
of many sermons is here published.--Ed.

2 The Jews, and their sacred city, are standing monuments of God's dreadful vengeance against
unbelief in rejecting the Lord Christ, in whom alone is salvation. The Lord give us grace to
prize and improve gospel privileges, lest we also be cut off, through unbelief.--Mason.

3 The higher a people rise under the means, the lower will be their fall if they slight them.
O highly-favoured England! Tyre and Sidon, Sodom and Gomorrah, will have a milder hell than
thy carnal, hypocritical, Christless children.--Mason.

4 All the objections are on the sinner's side, through unbelief. Christ answers them all in
one word, 'Whosoever will, let him come and take of the water of life freely'; and, 'Whosoever
cometh, I will in no wise cast out.' Lord, put forth thy power, and give the will.--Mason.

5 In this quotation, Bunyan has followed the reading in the Genevan or Puritan version.--Ed.

6 An arrow, dipped in the blood of Jesus, will subdue the most obdurate heart it reaches, even
those bitter enemies to Christ, the priests.--Mason.

7 This quotation is from the Genevan or Puritan version--Ed.

8 'Death was swallowing of them down.' How very striking and full of truth is this expression!
For, in proportion as the sinner violates the Divine law, so he rushes into the jaws of death
and destruction. Obedience to the Divine law preserves health, bestows happiness, and prolongs
life.--Ed.

9 'Rowl in his bowels'; intense affection: see Philemon 12.--Ed.

10 'Wheals'; pimples, or small swellings filled with matter.--Ed.

11 'As physicians do' can now hardly be understood. In Bunyan's days, all physicians put forth
their bills of 'wonderful cures.'--Ed.

12 'Hedge-creepers'; footpads.--Ed.

13 O sinner, beseech the Lord to enable you to welcome the grace that is welcoming you; then
you shall find it, in the Lord's time, that you shall be made as kindly welcome as ever a sinner
was that is now a glorified saint.--Mason.

14 This idea is most ingeniously and admirably displayed in Bunyan's beautiful allegory, 'The
Holy War.'--Ed.

15 'A muse'; deep thought. Vulgo` vocatum, 'a brown study.' Bunyan used this word in the same
sense in the first edition of 'The Pilgrim's Progress,' at the Interpreter's house: 'Now was
Christian somewhat in a muse.' It was afterwards altered, but not improved, by substituting
the words, 'in a maze.'--Ed.

16 Among all the wondrous sights that angels witness, one gives them peculiar joy--it is the
poor penitent prodigal returning to God, Luke 15:10.--Ed.

17 This was printed in the first edition, 'the biggest sin.'--Ed.

18 How strongly does this dialogue bring to our recollection that between Christian and Apollyon
in the 'The Pilgrim's Progress?'--Ed.

19 'I stunck,' in the original edition, probably meant, 'I stuck'; but all the later editions
have, 'I stunk.'--Ed.

20 'Clouts'; patches, Joshua 9:5

21 I cannot discover in what book Bunyan read this legend; it is not in the "Golden Legend,"
or any of my monkish authors. It was a generally received opinion, among the ancients, that
Mary Magdalene was sister to Lazarus; but the means of her conversion is not known. The story
here related is possible, and even probable; but it has no foundation in the inspired writings,
nor in ancient authors.--Ed.

23 'The friends thereof in their reason' were the words used in the first three editions by
Bunyan. After his decease, they were altered, in 1697, in a second third edition, and this
correction has been continued in every subsequent impression.--Ed.

24 Bunyan has some striking observations upon this word Go, in his work on the day of judgment.
Those who refused the invitation to 'come' and receive life, when in the world, now irresistibly
obey the awful mandate, 'Go,' and rush into eternal woe.--Ed.

25 How pointed and faithful are these words? How natural it is for a poor sinner to compare
himself with his fellow-worm, and say, 'Lord, I thank thee that I am not as this publican,'
or as that murderer--instead of viewing himself in the gospel glass, in the presence of infinite
holiness, and feeling that in his flesh there is no good thing, but putrefying sores, that
he is vile and hell-deserving, and must fall into the arms of Divine mercy, crying, Lord, save,
or I perish.--Ed.

26 'Swoop'; to seize as a hawk does his prey.--Ed.

27 The convinced sinner is not content with the cry, 'Deliver me from the wrath to come,' but,
feeling sin to be his greatest enemy, he earnestly cries for deliverance from its dominion
in this world (Psa 143).--Ed.

28 'At the catch.' See the dialogue between Faithful and Talkative in 'The Pilgrim's Progress.'--Ed.

29 Printed, 'far,' in the first and second editions; altered to 'fast,' in third and subsequent
editions.--Ed.

30 The blind men, who implored the mercy of Jesus, would not be checked even by the multitude,
but cried so much the more. When a true sense of misery urges, neither men nor devils can stop
the cry for mercy, till Jesus has compassion and heals their spiritual maladies.--Mason.

31 Quoted from the Puritan or Genevan version of the Bible; our translation has, 'He that covereth.'--Ed.

32 'Long of Jesus Christ'; a provincial expression, meaning 'all this belongs to us by Jesus
Christ.'--Ed.

33 How admirable an illustration is this of the Slough of Despond, into which Christian and
Pliable fell in 'The Pilgrim's Progress.'--Ed.

34 This illustrates Bunyan's meaning of the Giant of Sophistry, named Maul, whose head was
cut off by Great-heart, in the Second Part of 'The Pilgrim's Progress.'--Ed.

35 The treasures of this bank are inexhaustible and unsearchable. Oh for faith, that we may
draw largely upon its infinite riches!--Ed.

36 'Incidence'; the direction with which one body strikes another; now obsolete.--Ed.

37 A sour, crabbed Christian, is a contradiction in terms. The precept is, 'Be ye kind one
to another, tender-hearted, forgiving one another, even as God, for Christ's sake, hath forgiven
you' (Eph 4:31).--Mason

38 The true branches in Christ, the heavenly vine, are made fruitful in love, joy, peace, long-suffering,
gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, and temperance. By these it will appear that Christ
is formed within us. Mere 'lick of the tongue' love, without these, is an unsubstantial shadow.--Ed.

39 'Be so taunted'; in editions previous to 1697.--Ed.

40 'At least wise'; to say the least.--Ed.

41 This is the proper test for a perplexed soul, when troubled about his election. If I love
Christ, and am desirous to obey him, it is because he first loved me; and this is the surest
proof of election. Hear the voice of God, 'Whosoever believeth in me shall not perish, but
have eternal life'; and so Paul, 'As many as were ordained to eternal life believed' (Acts
13:48).--Ed.

42 How very forcible is this appeal to those who profess to believe the inspiration of the
Bible, but yet reject the atonement of Christ. It is to make the typical sacrifice of the clean
beasts, under the law, of greater value than that of the great antitype--the Son of God.--Ed.

