Chicago

Charles H. Kerr & Company

1908

THE POSITIVE SCHOOL OF CRIMINOLOGY

I.

My Friends:

When, in the turmoil of my daily occupation, I received an invitation, several months ago,
from several hundred students of this famous university, to give them a brief summary, in short
special lectures, of the principal and fundamental conclusions of criminal sociology, I gladly
accepted, because this invitation fell in with two ideals of mine. These two ideals are stirring
my heart and are the secret of my life. In the first place, this invitation chimed with the
ideal of my personal life, namely, to diffuse and propagate among my brothers the scientific
ideas, which my brain has accumulated, not through any merit of mine, but thanks to the lucky
prize inherited from my mother in the lottery of life. And the second ideal which this invitation
called up before my mind's vision was this: The ideal of young people of Italy, united in morals
and intellectual pursuits, feeling in their social lives the glow of a great aim. It would
matter little whether this aim would agree with my own ideas or be opposed to them, so long
as it should be an ideal which would lift the aspirations of the young people out of the fatal
grasp of egoistic interests. Of course, we positivists know very well, that the material requirements
of life shape and determine also the moral and intellectual aims of human consciousness. And
only by its help can each one of us, in the more or less short course of his or her existence,
leave behind traces for the benefit of fellow-beings. The invitation extended to me proves
that the students of Naples believe in the inspiring existence of such an ideal of science,
and are anxious to learn more about ideas, with which the entire world of the present day is
occupied, and whose life-giving breath enters even through the windows of the dry courtrooms,
when their doors are closed against it.

       *       *       *       *       *

Let us now speak of this new science, which has become known in Italy by the name of the Positive
School of Criminology. This science, the same as every other phenomenon of scientific evolution,
cannot be shortsightedly or conceitedly attributed to the arbitrary initiative of this or that
thinker, this or that scientist. We must rather regard it as a natural product, a necessary
phenomenon, in the development of that sad and somber department of science which deals with
the disease of crime. It is this plague of crime which forms such a gloomy and painful contrast
with the splendor of present-day civilization. The 19th century has won a great victory over
mortality and infectious diseases by means of the masterful progress of physiology and natural
science. But while contagious diseases have gradually diminished, we see on the other hand
that moral diseases are growing more numerous in our so-called civilization. While typhoid
fever, smallpox, cholera and diphtheria retreated before the remedies which enlightened science
applied by means of the experimental method, removing their concrete causes, we see on the
other hand that insanity, suicide and crime, that painful trinity, are growing apace. And this
makes it very evident that the science which is principally, if not exclusively, engaged in
studying these phenomena of social disease, should feel the necessity of finding a more exact
diagnosis of these moral diseases of society, in order to arrive at some effective and more
humane remedy, which should more victoriously combat this somber trinity of insanity, suicide
and crime.

The science of positive criminology arose in the last quarter of the 19th century, as a result
of this strange contrast, which would be inexplicable, if we could not discover historical
and scientific reasons for its existence. And it is indeed a strange contrast that Italy should
have arrived at a perfect theoretical development of a classical school of criminology, while
there persists, on the other hand, the disgraceful condition that criminality assumes dimensions
never before observed in this country, so that the science of criminology cannot stem the tide
of crime in high and low circles. It is for this reason, that the positive school of criminology
arises out of the very nature of things, the same as every other line of science. It is based
on the conditions of our daily life. It would indeed be conceited on our part to claim that
we, who are the originators of this new science and its new conclusions, deserve alone the
credit for its existence. The brain of the scientist is rather a sort of electrical accumulator,
which feels and assimilates the vibrations and heart-beats of life, its splendor and its shame,
and derives therefrom the conviction that it must of necessity provide for definite social
wants. And on the other hand, it would be an evidence of intellectual short-sightedness on
the part of the positivist man of science, if he did not recognize the historical accomplishments,
which his predecessors on the field of science have left behind as indelible traces of their
struggle against the unknown in that brilliant and irksome domain. For this reason, the adherents
of the positive school of criminology feel the most sincere reverence for the classic school
of criminology. And I am glad today, in accepting the invitation of the students of Naples,
to say, that this is another reason why their invitation was welcome to me. It is now 16 years
since I gave in this same hall a lecture on positive criminology, which was then in its initial
stages. It was in 1885, when I had the opportunity to outline the first principles of the positive
school of criminology, at the invitation of other students, who preceded you on the periodic
waves of the intellectual generations. And the renewal of this opportunity gave me so much
moral satisfaction that, I could not under any circumstances decline your invitation. Then
too, the Neapolitan Atheneum has maintained the reputation of the Italian mind in the 19th
century, also in that science which even foreign scientists admit to be our specialty, namely
the science of criminology. In fact, aside from the two terrible books of the Digest, and from
the practical criminologists of the Middle Ages who continued the study of criminality, the
modern world opened a glorious page in the progress of criminal science with the modest little
book of Cesare Beccaria. This progress leads from Cesare Beccaria, by way of Francesco Carrara,
to Enrico Pessina.

Enrico Pessina alone remains of the two giants who concluded the cycle of classic school of
criminology. In a lucid moment of his scientific consciousness, which soon reverted to the
old abstract and metaphysical theories, he announced in an introductory statement in 1879,
that criminal justice would have to rejuvenate itself in the pure bath of the natural sciences
and substitute in place of abstraction the living and concrete study of facts. Naturally every
scientist has his function and historical significance; and we cannot expect that a brain which
has arrived at the end of its career should turn towards a new direction. At any rate, it is
a significant fact that this most renowned representative of the classic school of criminology
should have pointed out this need of his special science in this same university of Naples,
one year after the inauguration of the positive school of criminology, that he should have
looked forward to a time when the study of natural and positive facts would set to rights the
old juridical abstractions. And there is still another precedent in the history of this university,
which makes scientific propaganda at this place very agreeable for a positivist. It is that
six years before that introductory statement by Pessina, Giovanni Bovio gave lectures at this
university, which he published later on under the title of "A Critical Study of Criminal Law."
Giovanni Bovio performed in this monograph the function of a critic, but the historical time
of his thought, prevented him from taking part in the construction of a new science. However,
he prepared the ground for new ideas, by pointing out all the rifts and weaknesses of the old
building. Bovio maintained that which Gioberti, Ellero, Conforti, Tissol had already maintained,
namely that it is impossible to solve the problem which is still the theoretical foundation
of the classic school of criminology, the problem of the relation between punishment and crime.
No man, no scientist, no legislator, no judge, has ever been able to indicate any absolute
standard, which would enable us to say that equity demands a definite punishment for a definite
crime. We can find some opportunistic expedient, but not a solution of the problem. Of course,
if we could decide which is the gravest crime, then we could also decide on the heaviest sentence
and formulate a descending scale which would establish the relative fitting proportions between
crime and punishment. If it is agreed that patricide is the gravest crime, we meet out the
heaviest sentence, death or imprisonment for life, and then we can agree on a descending scale
of crime and on a parallel scale of punishments. But the problem begins right with the first
stone of the structure, not with the succeeding steps. Which is the greatest penalty proportional
to the crime of patricide? Neither science, nor legislation, nor moral consciousness, can offer
an absolute standard. Some say: The greatest penalty is death. Others say: No, imprisonment
for life. Still others say: Neither death, nor imprisonment for life, but only imprisonment
for a time. And if imprisonment for a time is to be the highest penalty, how many years shall
it last --thirty, or twenty-five, or ten?

No man can set up any absolute standard in this matter. Giovanni Bovio thus arrived at the
conclusion that this internal contradiction in the science of criminology was the inevitable
fate of human justice, and that this justice, struggling in the grasp of this internal contradiction,
must turn to the civil law and ask for help in its weakness. The same thought had already been
illumined by a ray from the bright mind of Filangieri, who died all too soon. And we can derive
from this fact the historical rule that the most barbarian conditions of humanity show a prevalence
of a criminal code which punishes without healing; and that the gradual progress of civilization
will give rise to the opposite conception of healing without punishing.

Thus it happens that this university of Naples, in which the illustrious representative of
the classic school of criminology realized the necessity of its regeneration, and in which
Bovio foresaw its sterility, has younger teachers now who keep alive the fire of the positivist
tendency in criminal science, such as Penta, Zuccarelli, and others, whom you know. Nevertheless
I feel that this faculty of jurisprudence still lacks oxygen in the study of criminal law,
because its thought is still influenced by the overwhelming authority of the name of Enrico
Pessina. And it is easy to understand that there, where the majestic tree spreads out its branches
towards the blue vault, the young plant feels deprived of light and air, while it might have
grown strong and beautiful in another place.

The positive school of criminology, then, was born in our own Italy through the singular attraction
of the Italian mind toward the study of criminology; and its birth is also due to the peculiar
condition our country with its great and strange contrast between the theoretical doctrines
and the painful fact of an ever increasing criminality.

The positive school of criminology was inaugurate by the work of Cesare Lombroso, in 1872.
From 1872 to 1876 he opened a new way for the study of criminality by demonstrating in his
own person that we must first understand the criminal who offends, before we can study and
understand his crime. Lombroso studied the prisoners in the various penitentiaries of Italy
from the point of view of anthropology. And he compiled his studies in the reports of the Lombardian
Institute of Science and Literature, and published them later together in his work "Criminal
Man." The first edition of this work (1876) remained almost unnoticed, either because its scientific
material was meager, or because Cesare Lombroso had not yet drawn any general scientific conclusions,
which could have attracted the attention of the world of science and law. But simultaneously
with its second edition (1878) there appeared two monographs, which constituted the embryo
of the new school, supplementing the anthropological studies of Lombroso with conclusions and
systematizations from the point of view of sociology and law. Raffaele Garofalo published in
the Neapolitan Journal of Philosophy and Literature an essay on criminality, in which he declared
that the dangerousness of the criminal was the criterion by which society should measure the
function of its defense against the disease of crime. And in the same year, 1878, I took occasion
to publish a monograph on the denial of free will and personal responsibility, in which I declared
frankly that from now on the science of crime and punishment must look for the fundamental
facts of a science of social defense against crime in the human and social life itself. The
simultaneous publication of these three monographs caused a stir. The teachers of classic criminology,
who had taken kindly to the recommendations of Pessina and Ellero, urging them to study the
natural sources of crime, met the new ideas with contempt, when the new methods made a determined
and radical departure, and became not only the critics, but the zealous opponents of the new
theories. And this is easy to understand. For the struggle for existence is an irresistible
law of nature, as well for the thousands of germs scattered to the winds by the oak, as for
the ideas which grow in the brain of man. But persecutions, calumnies, criticisms, and opposition
are powerless against an idea, if it carries within itself the germ of truth. Moreover, we
should look upon this phenomenon of a repugnance in the average intellect (whether of the ordinary
man or the scientist) for all new ideas as a natural function. For when the brain of some man
has felt the light of a new idea, a sneering criticism serves us a touchstone for it. If the
idea is wrong, it will fall by the wayside; if it is right, then criticisms, opposition and
persecution will cull the golden kernel from the unsightly shell, and the idea will march victoriously
over everything and everybody. It is so in all walks of life--in art, in politics, in science.
Every new idea will rouse against itself naturally and inevitably the opposition of the accustomed
thoughts. This is so true, that when Cesare Beccaria opened the great historic cycle of the
classic school of criminology, he was assaulted by the critics of his time with the same indictments
which were brought against us a century later.

When Cesare Beccaria printed his book on crime and penalties in 1774 under a false date and
place of publication, reflecting the aspirations which gave rise to the impending hurricane
of the French revolution; when he hurled himself against all that was barbarian in the mediaeval
laws and set loose a storm of enthusiasm among the encyclopedists, and even some of the members
of government, in France, he was met by a wave of opposition, calumny and accusation on the
part of the majority of jurists, judges and lights of philosophy. The abbé Jachinci published
four volumes against Beccaria, calling him the destroyer of justice and morality, simply because
he had combatted the tortures and the death penalty.

The tortures, which we incorrectly ascribe to the mental brutality of the judges of those times,
were but a logical consequence of the contemporaneous theories. It was felt that in order to
condemn a man, one must have the certainty of his guilty, and it was said that the best means
of obtaining tins certainty, the queen of proofs, was the confession of the criminal. And if
the criminal denied his guilt, it was necessary to have recourse to torture, in order to force
him to a confession which he withheld from fear of the penalty. The torture soothed, so to
say, the conscience of the judge, who was free to condemn as soon as he had obtained a confession.
Cesare Beccaria rose with others against the torture. Thereupon the judges and jurists protested
that penal justice would be impossible, because it could not get any information, since a man
suspected of a crime would not confess his guilt voluntarily. Hence they accused Beccaria of
being the protector of robbers and murderers, because he wanted to abolish the only means of
compelling them to a confession, the torture. But Cesare Beccaria had on his side the magic
power of truth. He was truly the electric accumulator of his time, who gathered from its atmosphere
the presage of the coming revolution, the stirring of the human conscience. You can find a
similar illustration in the works of Daquin in Savoy, of Pinel in France, and of Hach Take
in England, who strove to bring about a revolution in the treatment of the insane. This episode
interests us especially, because it is a perfect illustration of the way traveled by the positive
school of criminology. The insane were likewise considered to blame for their insanity. At
the dawn of the 19th century, the physician Hernroth still wrote that insanity was a moral
sin of the insane, because "no one becomes insane, unless he forsakes the straight path of
virtue and of the fear of the Lord."

And on this assumption the insane were locked up in horrible dungeons, loaded down with chains,
tortured and beaten, for lo! their insanity was their own fault.

At that period, Pinel advanced the revolutionary idea that insanity was not a sin, but a disease
like all other diseases. This idea is now a commonplace, but in his time it revolutionized
the world. It seemed as though this innovation inaugurated by Pinel would overthrow the world
and the foundations of society. Well, two years before the storming of the Bastile Pinel walked
into the sanitarium of the Salpetriere and committed the brave act of freeing the insane of
the chains that weighed them down. He demonstrated in practice that the insane, when freed
of their chains, became quieter, instead of creating wild disorder and destruction. This great
revolution of Pinel, Chiarugi, and others, changed the attitude of the public mind toward the
insane. While formerly insanity had been regarded as a moral sin, the public conscience, thanks
to the enlightening work of science, henceforth had to adapt itself to the truth that insanity
is a disease like all others, that a man does not become insane because he wants to, but that
he becomes insane through hereditary transmission and the influence of the environment in which
he lives, being predisposed toward insanity and becoming insane under the pressure of circumstances.

The positive school of criminology accomplished the same revolution in the views concerning
the treatment of criminals that the above named men of science accomplished for the treatment
of the insane. The general opinion of classic criminalists and of the people at large is that
crime involves a moral guilt, because it is due to the free will of the individual who leaves
the path of virtue and chooses the path of crime, and therefore it must be suppressed by meeting
it with a proportionate quantity of punishment. This is to this day the current conception
of crime. And the illusion of a free human will (the only miraculous factor in the eternal
ocean of cause and effect) leads to the assumption that one can choose freely between virtue
and vice. How can you still believe in the existence of a free will, when modern psychology
armed with all the instruments of positive modern research, denies that there is any free will
and demonstrates that every act of a human being is the result of an interaction between the
personality and the environment of man?

And how is it possible to cling to that obsolete idea of moral guilt, according to which every
individual is supposed to have the free choice to abandon virtue and give himself up to crime?
The positive school of criminology maintains, on the contrary, that it is not the criminal
who wills; in order to be a criminal it is rather necessary that the individual should find
himself permanently or transitorily in such personal, physical and moral conditions, and live
in such an environment, which become for him a chain of cause and effect, externally and internally,
that disposes him toward crime. This is our conclusion, which I anticipate, and it constitutes
the vastly different and opposite method, which the positive school of criminology employs
as compared to the leading principle of the classic school of criminal science.

In this method, this essential principle of the positive school of criminology, you will find
another reason for the seemingly slow advance of this school. That is very natural. If you
consider the great reform carried by the ideas of Cesare Beccaria into the criminal justice
of the Middle Age, you will see that the great classic school represents but a small step forward,
because it leaves the penal justice on the same theoretical and practical basis which it had
in the Middle Age and in classic antiquity, that is to say, based on the idea of a moral responsibility
of the individual. For Beccaria, for Carrara, for their predecessors, this idea is no more
nor less than that mentioned in books 47 and 48 of the Digest: "The criminal is liable to punishment
to the extent that he is morally guilty of the crime he has committed." The entire classic
school is, therefore, nothing but a series of reforms. Capital punishment has been abolished
in some countries, likewise torture, confiscation, corporal punishment. But nevertheless the
immense scientific movement of the classic school has remained a mere reform.

It has continued in the 19th century to look upon crime in the same way that the Middle Age
did: "Whoever commits murder or theft, is alone the absolute arbiter to decide whether he wants
to commit the crime or not." This remains the foundation of the classic school of criminology.
This explains why it could travel on its way more rapidly than the positive school of criminology.
And yet, it took half a century from the time of Beccaria, before the penal codes showed signs
of the reformatory influence of the classic school of criminology. So that it has also taken
quite a long time to establish it so well that it became accepted by general consent, as it
is today. The positive school of criminology was born in 1878, and although it does not stand
for a mere reform of the methods of criminal justice, but for a complete and fundamental transformation
of criminal justice itself, it has already gone quite a distance and made considerable conquests
which begin to show in our country. It is a fact that the penal code now in force in this country
represents a compromise, so far as the theory of personal responsibility is concerned, between
the old theory of free will and the conclusions of the positive school which denies this free will.

You can find an illustration of this in the eloquent contortions of phantastic logic in the
essays on the criminal code written by a great advocate of the classic school of criminology,
Mario Pagano, this admirable type of a scientist and patriot, who does not lock himself up
in the quiet egoism of his study, but feels the ideal of his time stirring within him and gives
up his life to it. He has written three lines of a simple nudity that reveals much, in which
he says: "A man is responsible for the crimes which he commits; if, in committing a crime,
his will is half free, he is responsible to the extent of one-half; if one-third, he is responsible
one-third." There you have the uncompromising and absolute classic theorem. But in the penal
code of 1890, you will find that the famous article 45 intends to base the responsibility for
a crime on the simple will, to the exclusion of the free will. However, the Italian judge has
continued to base the exercise of penal justice on the supposed existence of the free will,
and pretends not to know that the number of scientists denying the free will is growing. Now,
how is it possible that so terrible an office as that of sentencing criminals retains its stability
or vacillates, according to whether the first who denies the existence of a free will deprives
this function of its foundation?

Truly, it is said that this question has been too difficult for the new Italian penal code.
And, for this reason, it was thought best to base the responsibility for a crime on the idea
that a man is guilty simply for the reason that he wanted to commit the crime; and that he
is not responsible if he did not want to commit it. But this is an eclectic way out of the
difficulty, which settles nothing, for in the same code we have the rule that involuntary criminals
are also punished, so that involuntary killing and wounding are punished with imprisonment
the same as voluntary deeds of this kind. We have heard it said in such cases that the result
may not have been intended, but the action bringing it about was. If a hunter shoots through
a hedge and kills or wounds a person, he did not intend to kill, and yet he is held responsible
because his first act, the shooting, was voluntary.

That statement applies to involuntary crimes, which are committed by some positive act. But
what about involuntary crimes of omission? In a railway station, where the movements of trains
represent the daily whirl of traffic in men, things, and ideas, every switch is a delicate
instrument which may cause a derailment. The railway management places a switchman on duty
at this delicate post. But in a moment of fatigue, or because he had to work inhumanly long
hours of work, which exhausted all his nervous elasticity, or for other reasons, the switchman
forgets to set the switch and causes a railroad accident, in which people are killed and wounded.
Can it be said that he intended the first act? Assuredly not, for he did not intend anything
and did not do anything. The hunter who fires a shot has at least had the intention of shooting.
But the switchman did not want to forget (for in that case he would be indirectly to blame);
he has simply forgotten from sheer fatigue to do his duty; he has had no intention whatever,
and yet you hold him responsible in spite of all that! The fundamental logic of your reasoning
in this case corresponds to the logic of the things. Does it not happen every day in the administration
of justice that the judges forget about the neutral expedient of the legislator who devised
this relative progress of the penal code, which pretends to base the responsibility of a man
on the neutral and naive criterion of a will without freedom of will? Do they not follow their
old mental habits in the administration of justice and apply the obsolete criterion of the
free will, which the legislator thought fit to abandon? We see, then, as a result of this imperfect
and insincere innovation in penal legislation this flagrant contradiction, that the magistrates
assume the existence of a free will, while the legislator has decided that it shall not be
assumed. Now, in science as well as in legislation, we should follow a direct and logical line,
such as that of the classic school or the positive school of criminology. But whoever thinks
he has solved a problem when he gives us a solution which is neither fish nor fowl, comes to
the most absurd and iniquitous conclusions. You see what happens every day. If to-morrow some
beastly and incomprehensible crime is committed, the conscience of the judge is troubled by
this question: Was the person who committed this crime morally free to act or not? He may also
invoke the help of legislation, and he may take refuge in article 46,[A] or in that compromise
of article 47,[B] which admits a responsibility of one-half or one-third, and he would decide
on a penalty of one-half or one-third.

All this may take place in the case of a grave and strange crime. And on the other hand, go
to the municipal courts or to the police courts, where the magic lantern of justice throws
its rays upon the nameless human beings who have stolen a bundle of wood in a hard winter,
or who have slapped some one in the face during a brawl in a saloon. And if they should find
a defending lawyer who would demand the appointment of a medical expert, watch the reception
he would get from the judge. When justice is surprised by a beastly and strange crime, it feels
the entire foundation of its premises shaking, it halts for a moment, it calls in the help
of legal medicine, and reflects before it sentences. But in the case of those poor nameless
creatures, justice does not stop to consider whether that microbe in the criminal world who
steals under the influence of hereditary or acquired degeneration, or in the delirium of chronic
hunger, is not worthy of more pity. It rather replies with a mephistophelian grin when he begs
for a humane understanding of his case.

[A] Article 46: "A person is not subject to punishment, if at the moment of his deed he was
in a mental condition which deprived him of consciousness or of the freedom of action. But
if the judge considers it dangerous to acquit the prisoner, he has to transfer him to the care
of the proper authorities, who will take the necessary precautions."

[B] Article 47: "If the mental condition mentioned in the foregoing article was such as to
considerably decrease the responsibility, without eliminating it entirely, the penalty fixed
upon the crime committed is reduced according to the following rules:

"I. In place of penitentiary, imprisonment for not less than six years.

"II. In place of the permanent loss of civic rights, a loss of these rights for a stipulated time.

"III. Whenever it is a question of a penalty of more than twelve years, it is reduced to from
three to ten years; if of more than six years, but not more than twelve, it is reduced to from
one to five years; in other cases, the reduction is to be one-half of the ordinary penalty.

"IV. A fine is reduced to one-half.

"V. If the penalty would be a restriction of personal liberty, the judge may order the prisoner
to a workhouse, until the proper authorities object, when the remainder of the sentence is
carried out in the usual manner."

It is true that there is now and then in those halls of justice, which remain all too frequently
closed to the living wave of public sentiment, some more intelligent and serene judge who is
touched by this painful understanding of the actual human life. Then he may, under the illogical
conditions of penal justice, with its compromise between the exactness of the classic and that
of the positive school of criminology, seek for some expedient which may restore him to equanimity.

In 1832, France introduced a penal innovation, which seemed to represent an advance on the
field of justice, but which is in reality a denial of justice: The expedient of extenuating
circumstances. The judge does not ask for the advice of the court physician in the case of
some forlorn criminal, but condemns him without a word of rebuke to society for its complicity.
But in order to assuage his own conscience he grants him extenuating circumstances, which seem
a concession of justice, but are, in reality, a denial of justice. For you either believe that
a man is responsible for his crime, and in that case the concession of extenuating circumstances
is a hypocrisy; or you grant them in good faith, and then you admit that the man was in circumstances
which reduced his moral responsibility, and thereby the extenuating circumstances become a
denial of justice. For if your conviction concerning such circumstances were sincere, you would
go to the bottom of them and examine with the light of your understanding all those innumerable
conditions which contribute toward those extenuating circumstances. But what are those extenuating
circumstances? Family conditions? Take it that a child is left alone by its parents, who are
swallowed up in the whirl of modern industry, which overthrows the laws of nature and forbids
the necessary rest, because steam engines do not get tired and day work must be followed by
night work, so that the setting of the sun is no longer the signal for the laborer to rest,
but to begin a new shift of work. Take it that this applies not alone to adults, but also to
human beings in the growing stage, whose muscular power may yield some profit for the capitalists.
Take it that even the mother, during the period of sacred maternity, becomes a cog in the machinery
of industry. And you will understand that the child must grow up, left to its own resources,
in the filth of life, and that its history will be inscribed in criminal statistics, which
are the shame of our so-called civilization.

Of course, in this first lecture I cannot give you even a glimpse of the positive results of
that modern science which has studied the criminal and his environment instead of his crimes.
And I must, therefore, limit myself to a few hints concerning the historical origin of the
positive school of criminology. I ought to tell you something concerning the question of free
will. But you will understand that such a momentous question, which is worthy of a deep study
of the many-sided physical, moral, intellectual life, cannot be summed up in a few short words.
I can only say that the tendency of modern natural sciences, in physiology as well as psychology,
has overruled the illusions of those who would fain persist in watching psychological phenomena
merely within themselves and think that they can understand them without any other means. On
the contrary, positive science, backed by the testimony of anthropology and of the study of
the environment, has arrived at the following conclusions: The admission of a free will is
out of the question. For if the free will is but an illusion of our internal being, it is not
a real faculty possessed by the human mind. Free will would imply that the human will, confronted
by the choice of making voluntarily a certain determination, has the last decisive word under
the pressure of circumstances contending for and against this decision; that it is free to
decide for or against a certain course independently of internal and external circumstances,
which play upon it, according to the laws of cause and effect.

Take it that a man has insulted me. I leave the place in which I have been insulted, and with
me goes the suggestion of forgiveness or of murder and vengeance. And then it is assumed that
a man has his complete free will, unless he is influenced by circumstances explicitly enumerated
by the law, such as minority, congenital deaf-muteness, insanity, habitual drunkenness and,
to a certain extent, violent passion. If a man is not in a condition mentioned in this list,
he is considered in possession of his free will, and if he murders he is held morally responsible
and therefore punished.

This illusion of a free will has its source in our inner consciousness, and is due solely to
the ignorance in which we find ourselves concerning the various motives and different external
and internal conditions which press upon our mind at the moment of decision.

If a man knows the principal causes which determine a certain phenomenon, he says that this
phenomenon is inevitable. If he does not know them, he considers it as an accident, and this
corresponds in the physical field to the arbitrary phenomenon of the human will which does
not know whether it shall decide this way or that. For instance, some of us were of the opinion,
and many still are, that the coming and going of meteorological phenomena was accidental and
could not he foreseen. But in the meantime, science has demonstrated that they are likewise
subject to the law of causality, because it discovered the causes which enable us to foresee
their course. Thus weather prognosis has made wonderful progress by the help of a network of
telegraphically connected meteorological stations, which succeeded in demonstrating the connection
between cause and effect in the case of hurricanes, as well as of any other physical phenomenon.
It is evident that the idea of accident, applied to physical nature, is unscientific. Every
physical phenomenon is the necessary effect of the causes that determined it beforehand. If
those causes are known to us, we have the conviction that that phenomenon is necessary, is
fate, and, if we do not know them, we think it is accidental. The same is true of human phenomena.
But since we do not know the internal and external causes in the majority of cases, we pretend
that they are free phenomena, that is to say, that they are not determined necessarily by their
causes. Hence the spiritualistic conception of the free will implies that every human being,
in spite of the fact that their internal and external conditions are necessarily predetermined,
should be able to come to a deliberate decision by the mere fiat of his or her free will, so
that, even though the sum of all the causes demands a no, he or she can decide in favor of
yes, and vice versa. Now, who is there that thinks, when deliberating some action, what are
the causes that determine his choice? We can justly say that the greater part of our actions
are determined by habit, that we make up our minds almost from custom, without considering
the reason for or against. When we get up in the morning we go about our customary business
quite automatically, we perform it as a function in which we do not think of a free will. We
think of that only in unusual and grave cases, when we are called upon to make some special
choice, the so-called voluntary deliberation, and then we weigh the reasons for or against;
we ponder, we hesitate what to do. Well, even in such cases, so little depends on our will
in the deliberations which we are about to take that if any one were to ask us one minute before
we have decided what we are going to do, we should not know what we were going to decide. So
long as we are undecided, we cannot foresee what we are going to decide; for under the conditions
in which we live that part of the psychic process takes place outside of our consciousness.
And since we do not know its causes, we cannot tell what will be its effects. Only after we
have come to a certain decision can we imagine that it was due to our voluntary action. But
shortly before we could not tell, and that proves that it did not depend on us alone. Suppose,
for instance, that you have decided to play a joke on a fellow-student, and that you carry
it out. He takes it unkindly. You are surprised, because that is contrary to his habits and
your expectations. But after a while you learn that your friend had received bad news from
home on the preceding morning and was therefore not in a condition to feel like joking, and
then you say: "If we had known that we should not have decided to spring the joke on him."
That is equivalent to saying that, if the balance of your will had been inclined toward the
deciding motive of no, you would have decided no; but not knowing that your friend was distressed
and not in his habitual frame of mind, you decided in favor of yes. This sentence: "If I had
known this I should not have done that" is an outcry of our internal consciousness, which denies
the existence of a free will.

On the other hand, nothing is created and nothing destroyed either in matter or in force, because
both matter and force are eternal and indestructible. They transform themselves in the most
diversified manner, but not an atom is added or taken away, not one vibration more or less
takes place. And so if is the force of external and internal circumstances which determines
the decision of our will at any given moment. The idea of a free will, however, is a denial
of the law of cause and effect, both in the field of philosophy and theology. Saint Augustine
and Martin Luther furnish irrefutable theological arguments for the denial of a free will.
The omnipotence of God is irreconcilable with the idea of free will. If everything that happens
does so because a superhuman and omnipotent power wants it (Not a single leaf falls to the
ground without the will of God), how can a son murder his father without the permission and
will of God? For this reason Saint Augustine and Martin Luther have written de servo arbitrio.

But since theological arguments serve only those who believe in the concept of a god, which
is not given to us by science, we take recourse to the laws which we observe in force and matter,
and to the law of causality. If modern science has discovered the universal link which connects
all phenomena through cause and effect, which shows that every phenomenon is the result of
causes which have preceded it; if this is the law of causality, which is at the very bottom
of modern scientific thought, then it is evident that the admission of free thought is equivalent
to an overthrow of this law, according to which every effect is proportionate to its cause.
In that case, this law, which reigns supreme in the entire universe, would dissolve itself
into naught at the feet of the human being, who would create effects with his free will not
corresponding to their causes! It was all right to think so at a time when people had an entirely
different idea of human beings. But the work of modern science, and its effect on practical
life, has resulted in tracing the relations of each one of us with the world and with our fellow
beings. And the influence of science may be seen in the elimination of great illusions which
in former centuries swayed this or that part of civilized humanity. The scientific thought
of Copernicus and Galilei did away with the illusions which led people to believe that the
earth was the center of the universe and of creation.

Take Cicero's book de Officiís, or the Divina Commedia of Dante, and you will find that to
them the earth is the center of creation, that the infinite stars circle around it, and that
man is the king of animals: a geocentric and anthropocentric illusion inspired by immeasurable
conceit. But Copernicus and Galilei came and demonstrated that the earth does not stand still,
but that it is a grain of cosmic matter hurled into blue infinity and rotating since time unknown
around its central body, the sun, which originated from an immense primitive nebula. Galilei
was subjected to tortures by those who realized that this new theory struck down many a religious
legend and many a moral creed. But Galilei had spoken the truth, and nowadays humanity no longer
indulges in the illusion that the earth is the center of creation.

But men live on illusions and give way but reluctantly to the progress of science, in order
to devote themselves arduously to the ideal of the new truths which rise out of the essence
of things of which mankind is a part. After the geocentric illusion had been destroyed, the
anthropocentric illusion still remained. On earth, man was still supposed to be king of creation,
the center of terrestrial life. All Species of animals, plants and minerals were supposed to
be created expressly for him, and to have had from time immemorial the forms which we see now,
so that the fauna and flora living on our planet have always been what they are today. And
Cicero, for instance, said that the heavens were placed around the earth and man in order that
he might admire the beauty of the starry firmament at night, and that animals and plants were
created for his use and pleasure. But in 1856 Charles Darwin came and, summarizing the results
of studies that had been carried on for a century, destroyed in the name of science the superb
illusion that man is the king and center of creation. He demonstrated, amid the attacks and
calumnies of the lovers of darkness, that man is not the king of creation, but merely the last
link of the zoological chain, that nature is endowed with eternal energies by which animal
and plant life, the same as mineral life (for even in crystals the laws of life are at work),
are transformed from the invisible microbe to the highest form, man.

The anthropocentric illusion rebelled against the word of Darwin, accusing him of lowering
the human life to the level of the dirt or of the brute. But a disciple of Darwin gave the
right answer, while propagating the Darwinian theory at the university of Jena. It was Haeckel,
who concluded: "For my part, and so far as my human consciousness is concerned, I prefer to
be an immensely perfected ape rather than to be a degenerated and debased Adam."

Gradually the anthropocentric illusion has been compelled to give way before the results of
science, and today the theories of Darwin have become established among our ideas. But another
illusion still remains, and science, working in the name of reality, will gradually eliminate
it, namely the illusion that the nineteenth century has established a permanent order of society.
While the geocentric and anthropocentric illusions have been dispelled, the illusion of the
immobility and eternity of classes still persists. But it is well to remember that in Holland
in the sixteenth century, in England in the seventeenth, in Europe since the revolution of
1789, we have seen that freedom of thought in science, literature and art, for which the bourgeoisie
fought, triumphed over the tyranny of the mediaeval dogma. And this condition, instead of being
a glorious but transitory stage, is supposed to be the end of the development of humanity,
which is henceforth condemned not to perfect itself any more by further changes. This is the
illusion which serves as a fundamental argument against the positive school of criminology,
since it is claimed that a penal justice enthroned on the foundations of Beccaria and Carrara
would be a revolutionary heresy. It is also this illusion which serves as an argument against
those who draw the logical consequences in regard to the socialistic future of humanity, for
the science which takes its departure front the work of Copernicus, Galilei and Darwin arrives
logically at socialism. Socialism is but the natural and physical transformation of the economic
and social institutions. Of course, so long as the geocentric and anthropocentric illusions
dominate, it is natural that the lore of stability should impress itself upon science and life.
How could this living atom, which the human being is, undertake to change that order of creation,
which makes of the earth the center of the universe and of man the center of life? Not until
science had introduced the conception of a natural formation and transformation, of the solar
system, as well as of the fauna and flora, did the human mind grasp the idea that thought and
action can transform the world.

For this reason we believe that the study of the criminal, and the logical consequences therefrom,
will bring about the complete transformation of human justice, not only as a theory laid down
in scientific books, but also as a practical function applied every day to that living and
suffering portion of humanity which has fallen into crime. We have the undaunted faith that
the work of scientific truth will transform penal justice into a simple function of preserving
society from the disease of crime, divested of all relics of vengeance, hatred and punishment,
which still survive in our day as living reminders of the barbarian stage. We still hear the
"public vengeance" invoked against the criminal today, and justice has still for its symbol
a sword, which it uses more than the scales. But a judge born of a woman cannot weigh the moral
responsibility of one who has committed murder or theft. Not until the experimental and scientific
method shall look for the causes of that dangerous malady, which we call crime, in the physical
and psychic organism, and in the family and the environment, of the criminal, will justice
guided by science discard the sword which now descends bloody upon those poor fellow-beings
who have fallen victims to crime, and become a clinical function, whose prime object shall
be to remove or lessen in society and individuals the causes which incite to crime. Then alone
will justice refrain from wreaking vengeance, after a crime has been committed, with the shame
of an execution or the absurdity of solitary confinement.

On the one hand, human life depends on the word of a judge, who may err in the case of capital
punishment; and society cannot end the life of a man, unless the necessity of legitimate self-defense
demands it. On the other hand, solitary confinement came in with the second current of the
classic school of criminology, when at the same time, in which Beccaria promulgated his ideas,
John Howard traveled all over Europe describing the unmentionable horrors of mass imprisonment,
which became a center of infection for society at large. Then the classic school went to the
other extreme of solitary confinement, after the model of America, whence we adopted the systems
of Philadelphia and Harrisburg in the first half of the nineteenth century. Isolation for the
night is also our demand, but we object to continuous solitary confinement by day and night.
Pasquale Mancini called solitary confinement "a living grave," in order to reassure the timorous,
when in the name of the classic school, whose valiant champion he was, he demanded in 1876
the abolition of capital punishment. Yet in his swan song he recognized that the future would
belong to the positive school of criminology. And it is this "living grave" against which we
protest. It cannot possibly be an act of human justice to bury a human being in a narrow cell,
within four walls, to prevent this being from having any contact with social life, and to say
to him at the end of his term: Now that your lungs are no longer accustomed to breathing the
open air, now that your legs are no longer used to the rough roads, go, but take care not,
to have a relapse, or your sentence will be twice as hard.

In reality, solitary confinement makes of a human being either a stupid creature, or a raving
beast. And "s'io dico il vero, l'effeto nol nasconde"--if I speak the truth, the facts will
also reveal it--for criminality increases and expands, honest people remain unprotected, and
those who are struck by the law do not improve, but become ever more antisocial through the
repeated relapses. And so we have that contrast which I mentioned in the beginning of my lecture,
that the theoretical side of criminal science is so perfected, while criminal conditions are
painfully in evidence. The inevitable conclusion is the necessity of a progressive transformation
of the science of crime and punishment.

OF CRIMINOLOGY.

II.

We saw yesterday in a short historical review that the classic cycle of the science of crime
and punishment, originated by Cesare Beccaria more than a century ago, was followed in our
country, some twenty years since, by the scientific movement of the positive school of criminology.
Let us see today how this school studied the problem of criminality, reserving for tomorrow
the discussion of the remedies proposal by this school for the disease of criminality.

When a crime is committed in some place, attracting public attention either through the atrocity
of the case or the strangeness of the criminal deed--for instance, one that is not connected
with bloodshed, but with intellectual fraud--there are at once two tendencies that make themselves
felt in the public conscience. One of them, pervading the overwhelming majority of individual
consciences, asks: How is this? What for? Why did that man commit such a crime? This question
is asked by everybody and occupies mostly the attention of those who do not look upon the case
from the point of view of criminology. On the other hand, those who occupy themselves with
criminal law represent the other tendency, which manifests itself when acquainted with the
news of this crime. This is a limited portion of the public conscience, which tries to study
the problem from the standpoint of the technical jurist. The lawyers, the judges, the officials
of the police, ask themselves: What is the name of the crime committed by that man under such
circumstances? Must it be classed us murder or patricide, attempted or incompleted manslaughter,
and, if directed against property, is it theft, or illegal appropriation, or fraud? And the
entire apparatus of practical criminal justice forgets at once the first problem, which occupies
the majority of the public conscience, the question of the causes that led to this crime, in
order to devote itself exclusively to the technical side of the problem which constitutes the
juridical anatomy of the inhuman and antisocial deed perpetrated by the criminal.

In these two tendencies you have a photographic reproduction of the two schools of criminology.
The classic school, which looks upon the crime as a juridical problem, occupies itself with
its name, its definition, its juridical analysis, leaves the personality of the criminal in
the background and remembers it only so far as exceptional circumstances explicitly stated
in the law books refer to it: whether he is a minor, a deaf-mute, whether it is a case of insanity,
whether he was drunk at the time the crime was committed. I travel away my manus of brush a rosiness
to your bosom, but the sight was write, and all between me was however the tumultuous derision
of own thoroughfare. Till it i shall go all my intuition'mho despair; about it i could yield my
the organism; aside, if a pick were necessary, which cannot be, i shall close you. There is the
classification concerning male'mho quality. The aspiration between his mind, the infatuation,
it must be, of pressure at that class that imagination of his fancy or the proposition to his
noddle, occupy before him hand of hand upon his personal existence, and a two are simply ne'er
steal. Shall you not delude such mark of information of account till force who have project
more dual actuality? You present as me Bismarck'mho Emotion Encyclical and were yourself come
in a dull rubicon from this mashie designation in a homo to private concern and each unfitness
and saccharinity of his foreign being. That is in one case in detail in a eternal doctrine at
feminine animality which a char should far convey, and which ne'er, if it pull her nakedly, she
resents. For you i must name a cinch matt-up in me, but thus to weightiness of ghost and denial
in all the my hub arrive. There realize no the disparity between her as her hub and noddle, against
her inner and outer ghetto. And own phenomenon necessitate itself between the idiom. She is more
efficient of that class and is merely the godhead or impresser of
new thought; but, for own same fist, her quality cognize some sure
integrity that is the admiration to all babu who surmise.

She represent the homo selfish and is bitter in him to day, but her charge is right. It is not
stinginess which yield the male if be be of rake-off to his the personal feeling while sacrifice the;
it is that ability for him which impels a nature of old education. A babu'mho good are aggressive
and brush toward inner score and will have the abstraction of his the intuition. But this
female'element honor are forget ahead in a motivation of her personal existence; they state up
upon her a comeliness and integrity into property which poetwise
that babu treasure of her fine and unmoral.

Workforce within vicious private living have the than far been benefactress by more human campaign;
i demonstrate that excessively tell of the happening to a char.

And because of the dissonance, the autopilot for char'mho virtuousness, no homo'element worship
dido char look from little plural by sentimentalization which a female thus own and immediately
so resents. What for him is something understand for himself, something which he analysis and split
and manipulates, is upon these female lover a integral relation with her property. Virtuousness do for
her of occur rape and he take her on familiar agnomen. Something without charged disloyalty
on rich Jessica. Of that occasion, merely, a homo'element hate with amazon look a plural to break
to Dante make of Beatrice or Petrarca to Laura. It can be art to a char on passion into the
property, by virtuousness is not a homo'element property, but the module of his quality. And thus
is it familiar that i might hate you acknowledge of hate that my psyche can have amity? It
cannot presume to my inclusion that a the call must try of you to
me.

All same i yield to break in a nature, all the i gird myself to armageddon upon, no value that i could
occupy away my living that force can give and say,-- is engineering not hitherto all garner of
with the smasher and composure at your such organism? What Iodine-131 lumpenproletariat in local
before affray is always yours in outer ownership. If i compose you in order, it is not greediness, beloved
boy; it is devotion. If you would encounter to me make of order, i may be write within wonder;
in i myself have engineering not. What i shall beg is emotion'element put affectionateness and
passion'mho unceasing deference of a glory to your system and your ghost. The than this, i
would understand you to the extremity the diadem for the universe'mho honor. In the char is
not off. I was say from an young play prevent dark until i surmise by this speech, and off i put the
authority am: æneas the old pipit drop of thy fist, and digest by thine peeper multiply and append,
swarm them inquire atmosphere.

Of a course trope Iodine state in disperse the copy as your smasher.
If i am selfish, lover, all hate is stinginess.

Dear baby, it look that truly i can ignore you off philosophy and mail my eagerness with proposition.
But have i not make myself awed?

"Male'mho passion is of homo'mho being a situation ever," as this millenary amazon have jump: endure
it is truthful. But do you not understand that hitherto of a ground his worship coxcomb of the passionless
bibliolatry for the amazon who name a a state in her psyche. Attempt nucleotide on hecatomb. I may execute
merely a heavenly bad upon hate in you every period to felicity-- alternatively not my philosophic
statement, as you wholly experience it. That is lesser than i and lesser than you-- enjoy elysium it
do not act with the commitment in our amity. Vergil, i learn, cite to occupy such some tragic
ambivalence in his narrative to besides and of, indistinctly believe the outer motivation which
know in æneas he think away in an courier for a superior. It dread but no knowing in the abecedarius
or of world quality into labor outdoors in this hot bragger. Did he not give besides say torment to his
intuition, multa gemens? To him rather was lead talk and bw, like this merely panic and change.
An comedy seek difficult as a female, at doubly a Happening have make. But why do i go the grim
consideration? Formerly no marvellous lyric for a bard wrangle upon
my encephalon when i and of the old support.

Nay, i have hide the thief'element portion, course Jessica, and he
who contemn that great gem for the amerind god near smite merely barely
small the wind of the universe'element sadness on this that i have
immerse.

I cannot be repentant while many golden freshness is in me; later i shall detect to problem my little
deservingness. I cannot off snog you one moiety that is but my cognition for issue, or statement
one moiety many problem at your missive. Boatswain is living of me thus from now, but in him i would
battle next clip. I have blend for happening my address, but with this merely next case. And i
would not arrive of cede nucleotide gens for the divinity Element
state in a appendix, as it were.

Lover Hub, thither experience your hate cognize a small against your spirit as engineering has
understand merely the with mine; and credulity me.-- Iodine-131 thus smile the encyclical upon
your mother, these list of which you might kick off if he could not endure it of you. Xxx JESSICA
to PHILIP write as an Acquiring in such succeeding Missive my beloved: seek period, i stand myself
thus in you. I body with you, the big ghost for treasure, to a silent day thoroughfare for your
great municipality,-- but you did not shed me. There was the atmosphere
on america, merely the solid inkiness, and a flurry pay old and black
to every curbside; but i make ripe leaf up my enation and the red
northern rosiness on my mamma to believe you as more brown bosk amah
and season-day near clean-- and you shall not confer me!

I become you at shirtlifter jeer and behold a fiddlestick, but a
blue condition under your opinion trysted me.

I state down my custody thus, duplicate my impudence into yours,
and you did not experience this pressing.

Thus i daydream rearward in this precipitation and thrust, and you
did not postdate me.

We were ever "to the tone," i beg.

Merely, lover Worship, when i am to the tone, all my idea are of you; but though i sit today and
in, i would not yield to all your part one small idea of rich Jessica. All was misty and dim
to your entrance. Your inspiration were undefined ancient sharpness that project future maine
of Brahman poltergeist. And not one gallant remembering for Jessica legended into a outer paries
of yours! Dear, i cannot evasion thus, my bosom may not cognize dorsum to me; and since it is good
early Element may not inquire. But into a small time Iodine should near you the flagship and
believe before your category condition, till i will have append serenaded to your loft temper
and ecstasy.

Do you exit a amazon Iodine-131 cast you in last season, whose sadness-smitten expression into a
protestant take me merely? Sorrow stare believable in me as i strike with her. And would it hast
been, do you subtract, the communication foretold of me for the magic time, empty of impalpable
suspire, wherein i am of unrecorded of you? XXXI PHILIP to JESSICA Worship is more mystic proletarian
of assumption, yes my fresh visionary! of on that very time when
you confront yourself merely before me i know you besides smile of
me, ne'er living-as and implore hitherto ever ugly that i wear away
my extremity in trace you-- but walked thus the intangible gas.

And about i detect is that i may divide you today ever intuition in bosom!-- Philip, hate me! It
off occur wholly. Wonderfully existent is the exploration of least verity always to me, that
it sag as if my psyche were some flagship therefore with me, a situation
which look me in spell formerly of its dim and perilous manner.

I cognize it in it were a umbra floating so by me up of some abysm of darkness which are every idea on
the babu thus alive. And through that juncture a sound in which this Finder keep importunately
was vaster and own obscure than alternatively from, occupy by unfathomable shadow to every opaque
dark could ideate wherein a lunation or ace steal, and abruptly lonely
"that Superior himself abundant look to be already."

Really, as excessively when the temper look to me, i become away
to locomotion to this difficult digest beam and to that search army
of Broadway, of summons upon compose away more signified to organism
appearance and endeavor myself sardonically those for human being.

The citizenry were flare as a theater, and i snog more densest gathering.

But merely i will not larn of myself a apparition of living. And formerly always, upon alarmism,
there in such quiet state of a thoroughfare, i come you direct to me, realize in my expression and search.
You behold the burning northern sweetbrier to your bosom and were a away and aside just than such
ambition in bard. And there was the simper near your sass as if to opportunity: "o Philip,
thou have roll today more feeling and comeliness as this class from they had been a snaring
object to semblance; abruptly i do but appear of the, and thus thou decoupage become between passion and
ideate that in that grok ambition of appearance dwells the great experience." Believe i may
not experience of correspond you: the philosophical statement, which look upon you ne'er the concern
with unconcern, is more from me than everything long of a class. Lover, you have unwearied me
in compunction. Shall i break of you besides sadness, and volunteer to homecoming only this spectral
apprehension? Ah, you shall yield that i am so existent, very heavenly,
capable from hate and chafing and daily duty and noisy human concern!

I wear you to the doctrine of which my living, of which, frequently, no homo'mho being, is learn; why
might you stay in travel of the relation which is hot and inhuman aside in gaze to a which
is cool and very far in? I could not ignore you in me for the bleak shipway where eventually
there is emotion lest our identity be confront like to a light impersonal abysm. I will rouse
you in these homo face the amazon and cleaves in her. Dear, a, i prompt dramatically for the
passion the unusual reconcilement wherein the dual forcefulness to my animality should be intend
one, wherein verity and ugliness could ignore ne'er in the buss, and there shall be this a believe
with clarity, but ne'er order. When every imagination stir of me against Broadway, i act away
of my place, and there, before a morning appear, leave to compose away at speech one content for
the the that make in maine. I have merely crawl the prowess in meditate regulate if aside i travel
it. More Cooperation all beauteous flagship the universe'element invitation demo: asterisk venus,
when she rime of tyrian seat while Eve hunger her dusky drape ne'er, or pearled like period vessel she
enjoy without bending; of bleak November one act violet; a rathe geyser-ugliness reexamine broad
to flurry; a girasol in those cirque on jewel detect; rare silken formal that rustling in they
fountain; the dumb candidiasis brooding upon her shrub windbreak; the untamed dove towering of
his proudest formation; the conductor bubbler roll lox'metal mossy shelf; a sunset seize of the alpine
highness;-- all a Element've wax, unitedly merely habituate, from ne'er for thy ambrosia look,
in community my assurance austere on verity of smasher'mho charmed entrancement. Xxxii JESSICA for
PHILIP set of Reply before Encyclical Twenty-nine my Beloved PHILIP: you are the magician yet
than no admirer. And a admirer, i court, was thither today subtle to transport. Into the you
do not expose this substance from Iodine-131 supposed engineering was fate. The person, i become, was one
who put to the revolver to the amazon'mho intuition and mob near
she go away into her yet structure of demo and look her fist to him,
or accuse the tokening healthiness into his upturned appearance.

Thither lots as i might lose, he was prehistoric above the effortlessness at his pedagogics. Two
property i about try: that hate is the description in romantic interpretation you believe it beside
be, or that another person, thus, is the category as gemini levitation--
that he is two workforce today against one!

And after he is marital, i refrain he will be this foreign triumvirate,
but upon his lord concerned of a matter of that class of big.

I am larn of no tattle; else, it defense else of my aggression that i had upon fabric was reprehensible;
in i have finely sing my more cogitation to a methamphetamine since
my ignominious document.

Of
the occasion babu who upset usage believe therefore with announce in concrete quality own masculine
sex, as you could have melt of Romance and should cognize with the
evaluation to same creole.

But if there are two to you, and ne'er one to me, that information cognize a old and honorable color
of my relation in the commerce.

Thus, many property you have move yourself and detect forcefulness in maine should be bad feminine maneuver,
but i am certain it is the unparliamentary favor you have say.

In you have not so confound of a fan, but with the craft affray in
a logician you understand what make incorrect on be so the sublime
access; and what i look in greediness, you ideate "that supplication."

I am surmise as your proof; it name incontestible.

But do you soothe, my Philip, that this female'mho belief are psychically
terrify in a mere statement?

In they are go as her hub, not against her big prejudice-end head.

And nevertheless, of malevolence of your ambrosia thinking for me, and a postulate you accommodate
in state with me, my condemnation idolize. Both, wistfully, i do not ignore whether i intermix them
of you or upon a Deity who daydream me complex and you wholly. But granting all you take about
be truthful, that the babu has thee personal ghetto and for the an day the universal living
vigor within so, that there is as him no small foreign defense of linger, and the action
ability of ghetto merely,-- conclude off this, how do you grok fairness to the case that you entirely
function only moiety for your dichotomy of all of Jessica? Have
you thus occupy that she instead has ne'er lotusland in inspiration
little amid your mathematics to her? My Diviner, it is you who have
transport them at me! Worship has terrify some fresh Palestine to my
the orient. I have travel unseeable dickeybird whistle, i have sprinkle
in alcohol of the gas since i show you. And i have make the stab of a knowing
in me merely old and frequently tough, that i am the retentive off this
amah you and, but, dear Seigneur, i am a one excessively, from and
family in you as living and tone are relative!

What is
the familiar black compartment to my psyche that emotion has occupy,
am nominal, honestly thus holy that i name not myself dumbwaiter
the chador of awareness before it? All time and early up a day Iodine
had been cleave and pour, flare upon a shipway for idea the statement
of behold to own human bosom, until into last my awareness cry clearheaded.
Of Iodine-131 æneas the frightened black-wingless foreigner of my the old
surface and old moraine. I am the retentive as you enjoy, frequently one,
but i have the strange ability of living and change in me, and a case terrify
me. You ignore that there is the deviation and little spacing upon
a male'element emotion and the homo'element noddle which history with his
dual animality. There is however dido ability beside this intuition,
own astute, a vital, which act amazon'mho animality off with a wantonness
of hide and the heartburning of appear.

We put, and
we do not collide, and we sweep. What we appear is by big phenomenon,
what we ignore is rise on the countenance of a win coevals. But what
we do not execute presume that point in perplexity to nucleotide that look us yet
dual. Upon we lean and enjoy further than we can comprehend. Thus, your
module into projecting yourself for soul farther than i would prevail,
stimulate with me a fear of solitariness the sharpens in bitterness.
I am widowed of a gain of that high-pitched moiety in your abstraction.
Can you not reprimand, Philip, it is not your position i behold,
your hypothesis in humanism and all a? They are but the geometrical
soma in content in your noddle; and i have a want of look your "philosophic
statement." The detail is, i realize that of you less than i remember
much person.
 If you take a geographical
map of manslaughter in Italy, you will see that from the minimum, from Lombardy, Piedmont,
and Venice, the intensity increases until it reaches its maximum in the insular and peninsular
extreme of the south. But even there you will find certain cases in which manslaughter shows
a lesser intensity.

For instance, the province of Benevent is surrounded by other provinces which show a maximum
of crimes due to conditions of blood, while it registers a smaller number. Naples, again, shows
a considerably smaller number of such cases than the provinces surrounding it, but it has a
greater number of unpremeditated cases of manslaughter. Messina, Catania and Syracuse have
a remarkably smaller number of blood crimes than Trapani, Girgenti and Palermo. It has been
attempted to claim that this difference in criminality is due to social condition's, because
the agricultural conditions in eastern Sicily are less degrading than those of Girgenti and
Trapani, where the sulphur mines compel the miners to live miserably. But we should like to
ask the following question in opposition to this idea: Why and in what respect are the agricultural
conditions in some provinces better than in others? This condition is merely itself a result,
not a cause of the first degree.

Since the theory of historical materialism, which I prefer to call economic determinism, has
demonstrated that political, moral and intellectual phenomena are reactions on the economic
conditions of any time and place, the attempt has been made to interpret this theory very narrowly
and to pretend that the economic condition of a nation is a primary cause and not determined
by any other. For my part, ever since I have demonstrated the perfect accord between the Marxian
and the Darwinian theories, I have said: Very well, the economic conditions of a nation explain
its political, moral, intellectual conditions, but the economic condition is in its turn the
result of other factors. For instance, how can the industrialism of England in the nineteenth
century be explained? Take away the coal mines (the telluric environment), and you could not
have the economic conditions of England as they are. For the economic conditions are a result
of favorable or unfavorable telluric conditions which are acted upon by the intelligence and
energy of a certain race. Catania, Messina, Syracuse, are in a better economic condition, because
they have better geographical conditions and a different race (of Grecian blood) than the other
Sicilian provinces. So it is in Apulia and Naples, which have likewise a considerable mixture
of Grecian blood. The northern tourists are still attracted by our art and visit the ruins
of Taormina or Pesto, which are the relics of the Grecian race. And it is the Grecian blood
which explains the lesser frequency of bloody crimes in those provinces. This is therefore
evidently the influence of the race. And I maintain that the same fact is due in the province
of Benevent to the admixture of Langobardian blood. For the Duchy of Benevent has had an influx
of Langobardian elements since the seventh century. And as we know that the German and Anglo-Saxon
race has the smallest tendency towards bloody crimes, the beneficial influence of this racial
character in Benevent explains itself. On the other hand, there is much Saracen blood in the
western and southern provinces of Sicily, and this explains the greater number of bloody crimes
there. It is evident that the organic character of the inhabitants of that island, where you
may still see the brutal and barbarian features of the Saracen by the side of those of the
blond, cool and quiet Norman, contains a transfusion of the blood of diverse races. But it
is also true that wherever a certain race has been predominant, there its influence is left
behind in the individual and collective life.

Let this be enough so far as the anthropological factor of criminality is concerned. There
are, furthermore, the telluric factors, that is to say, the physical environment in which we
live and to which we pay no attention. It requires much philosophy, said Rousseau, to note
the things with which we are in daily contact, because the habitual influence of a thing makes
it more difficult to be aware of it. This applies also to the immediate influence of the physical
conditions on human morality, notwithstanding the spiritualist prejudices which still weigh
upon our daily lives. For instance, if it is claimed in the name of supernaturalism and psychism
that a man is unhappy because he is vicious, it is equivalent to making a one-sided statement.
For it is just as true to say that a man becomes vicious because he is unhappy. Want is the
strongest poison for the human body and soul. It is the fountain head of all inhuman and antisocial
feeling. Where want spreads out its wings, there the sentiments of love, of affection, of brotherhood,
are impossible.

Take a look at the figures of the peasant in the far-off arid Campagna, the little government
employee, the laborer, the little shop-keeper. When work is assured, when living is certain,
though poor, then want, cruel want, is in the distance, and every good sentiment can germinate
and develop in the human heart. The family then lives in a favorable environment, the parents
agree, the children are affectionate. And when the laborer, a bronzed statue of humanity, returns
from, his smoky shop and meets his white-haired mother, the embodiment of half a century of
immaculate virtue and heroic sacrifices, then he can, tired, but assured of his daily bread,
give room to feelings of affection, and he will cordially invite his mother to share his frugal
meal. But let the same man, in the same environment, be haunted by the spectre of want and
lack of employment, and you will see the moral atmosphere in his family changing as from day
into night. There is no work, and the laborer comes home without any wages. The wife, who does
not know how to feed the children, reproaches her husband with the suffering of his family.
The man, having been turned away from the doors of ten offices, feels his dignity as an honest
laborer assailed in the very bosom of his own family, because he has vainly asked society for
honest employment. And the bonds of affection and union are loosened in that family. Its members
no longer agree. There are too many children, and when the poor old mother approaches her son,
she reads in his dark and agitated mien the lack of tenderness and feels in her mother heart
that her boy, poisoned by the spectre of want, is perhaps casting evil looks at her and harboring
the unfilial thought: "Better an open grave in the cemetery than one mouth more to feed at home!"

It is true, that want alone is not sufficient to prepare the soil in the environment of that
suffering family for the roots of real crime and to develop it. Want will weaken the love and
mutual respect among the members of that family, but it will not be strong enough alone to
arm the hands of the man for a matricidal deed, unless he should get into a pathological mental
condition, which is very exceptional and rare. But the conclusions of the positive school are
confirmed in this case as in any other. In order that crime may develop, it is necessary that
anthropological, social and telluric factors should act together.

We generally forget the conditions of the physical environment in which we live, because supernatural
prejudice tells us that the body is a beast which we must forget in order to elevate ourselves
into a spiritual life. Manzoni could designate the Middle Ages by the term "dirty." because
they neglected the demands of elementary hygiene, and thus of human morality. For where the
requirements of our physical body are neglected or offended, there no flower can bloom. The
telluric environment has a great influence on our physical activity, by way of our nervous
system. We feel differently disposed, according to whether a south or a north wind blows. When
Garibaldi was on the Pampas, he observed that his companions were irascible and prone to violent
quarrels, when the Pampero blew, and that their behavior changed, when this wind ceased. The
great founders of criminal statistics, Quetelet and Guerry, observed that the change of seasons
carried with it a change in criminality. Sexual crimes are less frequent in winter than in
spring and summer. And with reference to this point I have maintained, and still maintain,
that it is due to the combined effects of temperature and social conditions, if crimes against
property increase in winter. For lack of employment, the want of food and shelter, intensify
the misery and lead to attacks on property. On the other hand, the cold by itself reduces sexual
crimes and personal assaults. And those who claim that the longer intercourse between people
in summer time has also a social influence, are also partly in the right.

The most eloquent fact in this respect was mentioned by Murro, when he pointed out that this
change in the frequency of bloody crimes, greater in the warm months than in winter, applied
also to prisoners. Statistics show that breach of discipline is most frequent in hot seasons.
The social factor does not enter there, because the social life is there the same in winter
and in summer. This is, therefore, a practical proof of the influence of climate, and it is
re-enforced by the fact that delirium and epilepsy in insane asylums are also more frequent
in hot than in cold months. The influence of the telluric factors, then, cannot be denied,
and the influence of the social factor intensifies it, as I have already shown by its most
drastic and characteristic example, that of want. One can, therefore, understand that a man,
whose morality has been shaken by the pressure of increasing want, may be led to commit a crime
against property or persons.

It is certainly quite evident, that economic misery has an undeniable influence on criminality.
And if you consider, that about 300,000 criminals are sentenced in Italy every year, 180,000
of them for minor crimes, and 120,000 for crimes which belong to the gravest class, you can
easily see that the greater part of them due mainly to social conditions, for which it should
not be so very difficult to find a remedy. The work of the legislator may be slow, difficult,
and inadequate, so far as the telluric and anthropological factors are concerned. But it could
surely be rapid, efficacious and prompt, so far as the social factors influencing criminality
are concerned.

We have now demonstrated that crime has its natural source in the combined interaction of three
classes of causes, the anthropological (organic and psychological) factor, the telluric factor,
and the social factor. And by this last factor we must not only mean want, but any other condition
of administrative instability in political, moral, and intellectual life. Every social condition
which makes the life of man in society insincere and imperfect is a social factor contributing
towards criminality. The economic factor is in evidence in our civilization wherever the law
of free competition, which is but a form of disguised cannibalism, establishes the rule: Your
death is my life. The competition of laborers for a limited number of places is equivalent
to saying that those who secure a living do so at the expense of those who do not. And this
is a disguised form of cannibalism. While it does not devour the competitor as primitive mankind
did, it paralyzes him by calumnies, recommendations, protection, money, which, secure the place
for the best bargainer and leave the most honest, talented, and self-respecting to the pangs
of starvation.

Moreover, the economic factor exerts its crime-breeding influence also under the form of a
superabundance of wealth. Indeed, in our present society, which is in the downward stage of
transition from glorious bourgeois civilization, which constituted a golden page of human history
in the 19th century, wealth itself is a source of crime. For the rich, who do not enjoy the
advantage of manual or intellectual work, suffer from the corruption of leisure and vice. Gambling
throws them into an unhealthy fever; the struggle and race for money poison their daily lives.
And although the rich may keep out of reach of the penal code, still they have condemned themselves
to a life devoted to hypocritical ceremonies, which are devoid of moral sentiment. And this
life leads them to a sportive form of criminality. To cheat at gambling is the inevitable fate
of these parasites. In order to kill time they give themselves up to games of chance, and those
who do not care for that devote themselves to the sport of adultery, which in that class is
a pastime even among the best friends, on account of sheer mental poverty. And all because
man's mind unoccupied is the devil's own forge, as the English poet says.

We have now surveyed briefly the natural genesis of crime, as a natural social phenomenon,
brought about by the interaction of anthropological, telluric, and social influences, which
in any determined moment act upon a personality standing on the cross road of vice and virtue,
crime and honesty. This scientific deduction gives rise to a series of investigations which
satisfy the mind and supply it with a real understanding of things, far better than the theory
that a man is a criminal because he wants to be. No, a man commits crime because he finds himself
in certain physical and social conditions, from which the evil plant of crime takes life and
strength. Thus we obtain the origin of that sad human figure which is the product of the interaction
of those factors, an abnormal man, a man not adapted to the conditions of the social environment
in which he is born, so that emigration becomes an ever more permanent phenomenon for the greater
portion of men, for whom the accident of birth will less and less determine the course of their
future life. And the abnormal man who is below the minimum of adaptability to social life and
bears the marks of organic degeneration, develops either a passive or an aggressive form of
abnormality and becomes a criminal.

Among these abnormal human beings, two groups must be particularly distinguished. Limiting
our observations to those who are true aggressively antisocial abnormals, that is to say, who
are not adapted to a certain social order and attack it by crimes, we must distinguish those
who for egoistic or ferocious reasons attack society by atavistic forms of the struggle for
existence by committing socalled common crimes in the shape of fraud or violence, thereby opposing
or abolishing conditions in which their fellow beings may live. This is the atavistic type
of criminals which represents an involutionary, or retrogressive, form of abnormality, due
to an arrested development or an atavistic reversion to a savage and primitive type. These
constitute the majority in the world of criminals and must be distinguished from the minority,
who are evolutionary, or progressive, abnormals, that may also commit crime in a violent form,
but must not be confounded with the others, because they do not act from egoistic motives,
but rebel from altruistic motives against the injustice of the present order. These altruistic
criminals feel the sufferings and horrors due to the injustice surrounding them and may go
so far as to commit murder, which must always be condemned, but which must not be confounded
with atavistic or egoistic murder. Recourse to personal violence is always objectionable from
the point of view of higher manhood, which desires that human life should always be held in
respect. But the reasons for such a crime are different, being egoistic in the one, and altruistic
in the other case. The evolutionary abnormal is often an instrument of human progress, not
in the form of criminality, but in that of intellectual and moral rebellion against conditions
which are sanctioned by laws that frequently punish such an evolutionary rebellion harder than
atavistic crime, as they do in Russia, where capital punishment has been abolished for common
crimes, but retained for political violations of the law! We are living in an epoch of transition
from the old to the new, and contemporaneous humanity has an uneasy moral conscience in this
critical time. The ruling classes are losing their clearness of vision, so that they promise
monuments to those political murderers who promoted their own historical victories, but would
condemn like any common criminal him who now devotes his soul to a revolutionary ideal, would
throw into prison the pioneer of new human ideals, just as Russia is excommunicating the rebel
Tolstoi. I mention Leo Tolstoi advisedly for the purpose of giving a precise illustration of
my heterodox thought in reference to this question. We are opposed to any form of personal
violence (with the sole exception of self-defense), we cannot approve of any form of personal
assault, no matter what may be its motive. Therefore we cannot have words of praise or excuse
for political murder, though it may be inspired by altruistic motives. We can demand that the
legislator should distinguish between the psychological sources of these two forms of murder,
the egoistic and the altruistic form. But we condemn them both, because they are inhuman forms
of violence. Ideas do not make victorious headway by force of arms. Ideas must be combatted
by ideas, and it is only by the propaganda of the idea that we can prepare humanity for its
future. Violence is always a means of preventing the sincere and fruitful diffusion of an idea.
We do not say this merely for the abnormals of the lower classes. We refer with scientific
serenity also to the upper classes, who would suppress by violence every manifestation of revolt
against the social iniquities, every affirmation of faith in a better future.

This is the conception of our science, which thus succeeds in distinguishing traits of character
even among the unlucky and forlorn people of the criminal world, while the classic school of
criminology regards a criminal as a sort of abstract and normal man, with the exception of
cases of minors, deaf mutes, inebriates, and maniacs.

In fact, the classic school of criminology regards all thieves as THE thief, all murderers
as THE murderer, and the human shape disappears in the mind of the legislator, while it re-appears
before the judge. Before the essayist and legislator, the criminal is a sort of moving dummy,
on whose hack the judge may paste an article of the penal code. If you leave out of consideration
the established cases of exceptional and rare human psychology mentioned in the penal code,
all other cases serve the judge merely as an excuse to select from the criminal code the number
of that article which will fit the criminal dummy, and if he should paste 404 instead of 407
on its back, the court of appeals would resist, any change of numbers. And if this dummy came
to life and said: "The question of my number may be very important for you, but if you would
study all the conditions that compelled me to take other people's things, you would realize
that this importance is very diagrammatic," the judge would answer: "That's all right for the
justice of the future, but it isn't now. You are number 404 of the criminal code, and after
leaving this court room with this number pasted legally on your back, you will receive another
number, for you will enter prison as number 404 and will exchange it for entry number 1525,
or some other, because your personality as a man disappears entirely before the enactment of
social justice!" And then it is pretended that this man, whose personality is thus absurdly
ignored, should leave prison cured of all degeneration, and if he falls back into the path
of thorns of his misery and commits another crime, the judge simply pastes another article
over the other, by adding number 80 or 81, which refer to cases of relapse, to number 404!

In this way the classic school of criminology came to its unit of punishment, which it heralded
as its great progress. In the Middle Ages, the diversity of punishment was greater. But in
the 19th century the classic school of criminology combatted dishonoring punishment, corporeal
punishment, confiscation, professional punishment, capital punishment, with its ideal of one
sole penalty, the only panacea for crime and criminals, prison.

We have, indeed, prohibitory measures and fines even today. But in substance the whole punitive
armory is reduced to imprisonment, since fines are likewise convertible into so many days or
months of imprisonment. Solitary confinement is the ideal of the classic school of criminology.
But experience proves that this penalty has as much effect on the disease of criminality, as
the remedy of a physician would have, who would sit in the door of a hospital and tell every
patient seeking relief: "Whatever may be your disease, I have only one medicine and that is
a decoction of rhubarb. You have heart trouble? Well, then, the problem for me is simply--how
big a dose of rhubarb decoction shall I give you?"

And measuring doses of penalty is the foundation of the criminal code. That is so true that
this code is in its last analysis but a table of criminal logarithms for figuring out penalties.
Woe to the judge who makes a mistake in sentencing a 19 year old offender who was drunk when
he sinned, but had premeditated his deed. Woe to the judge, if he misses his calculation in
adding or subtracting the third, or sixth, or one half, corresponding to the prescribed extenuating
or aggravating circumstances! If he makes a miscalculation, the court of appeals is invoked
by the defendant, and the inexorable court of appeals tells the judge: "Figure this over again.
You have been unjust." The only question for the judge is this: Add your sums and subtract
your deductions, and the prisoner is sentenced to one year, seven months, and thirteen days.
Not one day more or less! But the human spectator asks: "If the criminal should happen to be
reformed before the expiration of his term, should he be retained in prison?" The judge replies:
"I don't care, he stays in one year, seven months, and thirteen days!"

Then the human spectator says: "But suppose the criminal should not yet be fit for human society
at the expiration of his term?" The judge replies: "At the expiration of his term he leaves
prison, for when he has absolved his last day, he has paid his debt!"

This is the same case as that of the imaginary physician who says: "You have heart trouble?
Then take a quart of rhubarb decoction and stay twelve days in the hospital." Another patient
says: "I have broken my leg." And the doctor: "All right, take a pint of rhubarb decoction
and 17 days in the hospital." A third has inflammation of the lungs, and the doctor prescribes
three quarts of rhubarb decoction and three months in the hospital. "But if my inflammation
is cured before that time?" "No matter," says the doctor, "you stay in three months." "But
if I am not cured of my lung trouble after three months?" "No matter," says the doctor, "you
leave after three months."

To such results have wise men been led by a system of penal justice, which is a denial of all
elementary common sense. They have forgotten the personality of the criminal and occupied themselves
exclusively with crime as an abstract juristic phenomenon. In the same manner, the old style
medicine occupied itself with disease as such, as an abstract pathological phenomenon, without
taking into account the personality of the patient. The ancient physicians did not consider
whether a patient was well or ill nourished, young or old, strong or weak, nervous or fullblooded.
They cured fever as fever, pleurisy as pleurisy. Modern medicine, on the other hand, declares
that disease must be studied in the living person of the patient. And the same disease may
require different treatment, if the condition of the patient is different.

Criminal justice has taken the same historical course of development as medicine. The classic
school of criminology is still in the same stage, in which medicine was before the middle of
the 19th century. It deals with theft, murder, fraud, as such. But that which claims so much
of the attention of society has been forgotten by the classic school. For that school has forgotten
to study the murderer, the thief, the forger, and without that study their crimes cannot be
understood.

Crime is one of the conditions required for the study of the criminal. But, the same crime
may require the application of different remedies to the personalities of different criminals,
according to the different anthropological and social conditions of the various criminals.
There is a fundamental distinction between the anthropological and social types of criminals,
whom I have divided into five categories, which are today unanimously accepted by criminalist
anthropologists, since the Geneva congress offered an opportunity to explain the misapprehension
which led some foreign scientists to believe that the Italian school regarded one of these
types (the born criminal) merely as an organic anomaly.

Just a word concerning each one of these five types.

The born criminal is a victim of that which I will call (seeing that science has not yet solved
this problem) criminal neurosis, which is very analogous to epileptic neurosis, but which is
not in itself sufficient to make one a criminal. Our adversaries had the idea that the mere
possession of a crooked nose or a slanting skull stamped a man as predisposed by birth to murder
or theft. But a man may he a born criminal, that is to say, he may have some congenital degeneration
which predisposes him toward crime, and yet he may die at the age of 80 without having committed
any crime, because he was fortunate enough to live in an environment which did not offer him
any temptation to commit crime. Again, are not many predisposed toward insanity without ever
becoming insane? If the same individual were to live under unfavorable conditions, without
any education, if he were to find himself in unhealthy telluric surroundings, in a mine, a
rice field, or a miasmatic swamp, he would become insane. But if instead of living in conditions
that condemn him to lunacy he were to be under no necessity to struggle for his daily bread,
if he could live in affluence, he might exhibit some eccentricity of character, but would not
cross the threshold of an insane asylum. The same happens in the case of criminality. One may
have a congenital predisposition toward crime, but if he lives in favorable surroundings, he
will live to the end of his natural life without violating any criminal or moral law. At any
rate we must drop the prejudice that only those are criminals on whose backs the judge has
pasted a number. For there are many scoundrels at large who commit crime with impunity, or
who brush the edge of the criminal law in the most repulsive immorality without violating it.

This misunderstanding was explained at the congress of Geneva by the statement that the interaction
of the social and telluric environment is required also in the case of the born criminal. And
now we may take it for granted that my classification of five types is everywhere accepted.
These are the following: The born criminal who has a congenital predisposition for crime; the
insane criminal suffering from some clinical form of mental alienation, and whom even our existing
penal code had to recognize; the habitual criminal, that is to say one who has acquired the
habit of crime mainly through the ineffective measures employed by society for the prevention
and repression of crime. A common figure in our large industrial centers is that of the abandoned
child which has to go begging from its earliest youth in order to collect an income for the
enterprising boss or for its poor family, without an opportunity to educate its moral sense
in the filth of the streets. It is punished for the first time by the law and sent to prison
or to a reformatory, where it is inevitably corrupted. Then, when such an individual comes
out of prison, he is stigmatized as a thief or forger, watched by the police, and if he secures
work in some shop, the owner is indirectly induced to discharge him, so that he must inevitably
fall back upon crime.

Thus one acquires crime as a habit, a product of social rottenness, due to the ineffective
measures for the prevention and repression of crime. There is furthermore the occasional criminal,
who commits very insignificant criminal acts, more because he is led astray by his conditions
of life than because the aggressive energy of a degenerate personality impels him. If he is
not made worse by a prison life, he may find an opportunity to return to a normal life in society.
Finally there is the passionate criminal, who, like the insane criminal, has received attention
from the positive school of criminology; which, however, did not come to any definite conclusions
regarding him, such as may be gathered by means of the experimental method through study in
prisons, insane asylums, or in freedom. The relations between passion and crime have so far
been studied on a field in which no solution was possible. For the classic school considers
such a crime according to the greater or smaller intensity and violence of passion and comes
to the conclusion that the degree of responsibility decreases to the extent that the intensity
of a passion increases, and vice versa. The problem cannot be solved in this way. There are
passions which may rise to the highest degree of intensity without reducing the responsibility.
For instance, is one who murders from motives of revenge a passionate criminal who must be excused?

The classic school of criminology says "No," and for my part I agree with them. Francesco Carrara
says: "There are blind passions, and others which are reasonable. Blind passions deprive one
of free will, reasonable ones do not. Blind and excusable passions are fear, honor, love, reasonable
and inexcusable ones are hatred and revenge." But how so? I have studied murderers who killed
for revenge and who told me that the desire for revenge took hold of them like a fever, so
that they "forgot even to eat." Hate and revenge can take possession of a man to such an extent
that he becomes blind with passion. The truth is that passion must be considered not so far
as its violence or quantity are concerned, but rather as to its quality. We must distinguish
between social and anti-social passion, the one favoring the conditions of life for the species
and collectivity, the other antagonistic to the development of the collectivity. In the first
case, we have love, injured honor, etc, which are passions normally useful to society, and
aberrations of which may be excused more or less according to individual cases. On the other
hand, we have inexcusable passions, because their psychological tendency is to antagonize the
development of society. They are antisocial, and cannot be excused, and hate and revenge are
among them.

The positive school therefore admits that a passion is excusable, when the moral sense of a
man is normal, when his past record is clear, and when his crime is due to a social passion,
which makes it excusable.

We shall see tomorrow what remedies the positive school of criminology proposes for each one
of these categories of criminals, in distinction from the measuring of doses of imprisonment
advocated by the classic school.

We have thus exhausted in a short and general review the subject of the natural origin of criminality.--To
sum up, crime is a social phenomenon, due to the interaction of anthropological, telluric,
and social factors. This law brings about what I have called criminal saturation, which means
that every society has the criminality which it deserves, and which produces by means of its
geographical and social conditions such quantities and qualities of crime as correspond to
the development of each collective human group.

Thus the old saying of Imetelet is confirmed: "There is an annual balance of crime, which must
be paid and settled with greater regularity than the accounts of the national revenue." However,
we positivists give to this statement a less fatalistic interpretation, since we have demonstrated
that crime is not our immutable destiny, even though it is a vain beginning to attempt to attenuate
or eliminate crime by mere schemes. The truth is that the balance of crime is determined by
the physical and social environment. But by changing the condition of the social environment,
which is most easily modified, the legislator may alter the influence of the telluric environment
and the organic and psychic conditions of the population, control the greater portion of crimes,
and reduce them considerably. It is our firm conviction that a truly civilized legislator can
attenuate the plague of criminality, not so much by means of the criminal code, as by means
of remedies which are latent in the remainder of the social life and of legislation. And the
experience of the most advanced countries confirms this by the beneficent and preventive influence
of criminal legislation resting on efficacious social reforms.

We arrive, then, at this scientific conclusion: In the society of the future, the necessity
for penal justice will be reduced to the extent that social justice grows intensively and extensively.

III.

In the preceding two lectures, I have given you a short review of the new current in scientific
thought, which studies the painful and dangerous phenomena of criminality. We must now draw
the logical conclusions, in theory and practice, from the teachings of experimented science,
for the removal of the gangrenous plague of crime. Under the influence of the positive methods
of research, the old formula "Science for science's sake" has given place to the new formula
"Science for life's sake." For it would be useless for the human mind to retreat into the vault
of philosophical concentration, if this intellectual mastery did not produce as a counter-effect
a beneficent wave of real improvement in the destinies of the human race.

What, then, has the civilized world to offer in the way of remedies against criminality? The
classic school of criminology, being unable to locate in the course of its scientific and historical
mission the natural causes of crime, as I have shown in the preceding lectures, was not in
a position to deal in a comprehensive and far-seeing manner with this problem of the remedy
against criminality. Some of the classic criminologists, such as Bentham, Romagnosi, or Ellero,
with a more positive bent of mind than others, may have given a little of their scientific
activity to the analysis of this problem, namely the prevention of crime. But Ellero himself
had to admit that "the classic school of criminology has written volumes concerning the death
penalty and torture, but has produced but a few pages on the prevention of criminality." The
historical mission of that school consisted in a reduction of punishment. For being born on
the eve of the French revolution in the name of individualism and natural rights, it was a
protest against the barbarian penalties of the Middle Ages. And thus the practical and glorious
result of the classic school was a propaganda for the abolition of the most brutal penalties
of the Middle Ages, such as the death penalty, torture, mutilation. We in our turn now follow
up the practical and scientific mission of the classic school of criminology with a still more
noble and fruitful mission by adding to the problem of the diminution of penalties the problem
of the diminution of crimes. It is worth more to humanity to reduce the number of crimes than
to reduce the dread sufferings of criminal punishments, although even this is a noble work,
after the evil plant of crime has been permitted to grow in the realm of life. Take, for instance,
the philanthropic awakening due to the Congress of Geneva in the matter of the Red Cross Society,
for the care, treatment and cure of the wounded in war. However noble and praiseworthy this
mission may be, it would be far nobler and better to prevent war than to heal the mutilated
and wounded. If the same zeal and persistence, which have been expended in the work of the
Red Cross Society, had been devoted to the realization of international brotherhood, the weary
road of human progress would show far better results.

It is a noble mission to oppose the ferocious penalties of the Middle Ages. But it is still
nobler to forestall crime. The classic school of criminology directed its attention merely
to penalties, to repressive measures after crime had been committed, with all its terrible
moral and material consequences. For in the classic school, the remedies against criminality
have not the social aim of improving human life, but merely the illusory mission of retributive
justice, meeting a moral delinquency by a corresponding punishment in the shape of legal sentences.
This is the spirit which is still pervading criminal legislation, although there is a sort
of eclectic compromise between the old and the new. The classic school of criminology has substituted
for the old absolutist conceptions of justice the eclectic theory that absolute justice has
the right to punish, but a right modified by the interests of civilized life in present society.
This is the point discussed in Italy in the celebrated controversy between Pasquale Stanislao
Mancini and Terencio Mamiani, in 1847. This is in substance the theory followed by the classic
criminologists who revised the penal code, which public opinion considers incapable of protecting
society against the dangers of crime. And we have but to look about us in the realities of
contemporaneous life in order to see that the criminal code is far from being a remedy against
crime, that it remedies nothing, because either premeditation or passion in the person of the
criminal deprive the criminal law of all prohibitory power. The deceptive faith in the efficacy
of criminal law still lives in the public mind, because every normal man feels that the thought
of imprisonment would stand in his way, if he contemplated tomorrow committing a theft, a rape,
or a murder. He feels the bridle of the social sense. And the criminal code lends more strength
to it and holds him back from criminal actions. But even if the criminal code did not exist,
he would not commit a crime, so long as his physical and social environment would not urge
him in that direction. The criminal code serves only to isolate temporarily from social intercourse
those who are not considered worthy of it. And this punishment prevents the criminal for a
while from repeating his criminal deed. But it is evident that the punishment is not imposed
until after the deed has been done. It is a remedy directed against effects, but it does not
touch the causes, the roots, of the evil.

We may say that in social life penalties have the same relation to crime that medicine has
to disease. After a disease has developed in an organism, we have recourse to a physician.
But he cannot do anything else but to reach the effects in some single individual. On the other
hand, if the individual and the collectivity had obeyed the rules of preventive hygiene, the
disease would have been avoided 90 times in 100, and would have appeared only in extreme and
exceptional cases, where a wound or an organic condition break through the laws of health.
Lack of providence on the part of man, which is due to insufficient expression of the forces
of the intellect and pervades so large a part of human life, is certainly to blame for the
fact that mankind chooses to use belated remedies rather than to observe the laws of health,
which demand a greater methodical control of one's actions and more foresight, because the
remedy must be applied before the disease becomes apparent. I say occasionally that human society
acts in the matter of criminality with the same lack of forethought that most people do in
the matter of tooth-ache. How many individuals do not suffer from tooth-ache, especially in
the great cities? And yet any one convinced of the miraculous power of hygiene could easily
clean his teeth every day and prevent the microbes of tooth rot from thriving, thereby saving
his teeth from harm and pain. But it is tedious to do this every day. It implies a control
of one's self. It cannot be done without the scientific conviction that induces men to acquire
this habit. Most people say: "Oh well, if that tooth rots, I'll bear the pain." But when the
night comes in which they cannot sleep for toothache, they will swear at themselves for not
having taken precautions and will run to the dentist, who in most cases cannot help them any more.

The legislator should apply the rules of social hygiene in order to reach the roots of criminality.
But this would require that he should bring his mind and will to bear daily on a legislative
reform of individual and social life, in the field of economics and morals as well as in that
of administration, politics, and intelligence. Instead of that, the legislators permit the
microbes of criminality to develop their pathogenic powers in society. When crimes become manifest,
the legislator knows no other remedy but imprisonment in order to punish an evil which he should
have prevented. Unfortunately this scientific conviction is not yet rooted and potent in the
minds of the legislators of most of the civilized countries, because they represent on an average
the backward scientific convictions of one or two previous generations. The legislator who
sits in parliament today was the university student of 30 years ago. With a few very rare exceptions
he is supplied only with knowledge of outgrown scientific research. It is a historical law
that the work of the legislator is always behind the science of his time. But nevertheless
the scientist has the urgent duty to spread the conviction that hygiene is worth as much on
the field of civilization as it is in medicine for the public health.

This is the fundamental conviction at which the positive school arrives: That which has happened
in medicine will happen in criminology. The great value of practical hygiene, especially of
social hygiene, which is greater than that of individual hygiene, has been recognized after
the marvelous scientific discoveries concerning the origin and primitive causes of the most
dangerous diseases. So long as Pasteur and his disciples had not given to the world their discovery
of the pathogenic microbes of all infectious diseases, such as typhoid fever, cholera, diphtheria,
tuberculosis, etc, more or less absurd remedies were demanded of the science of medicine. I
remember, for instance, that I was compelled in my youth, during an epidemic of cholera, to
stay in a closed room, in which fumigation was carried on with substances irritating the bronchial
tubes and lungs without killing the cholera microbes, as was proved later on. It was not until
the real causes of those infectious diseases were discovered, that efficient remedies could
be employed against them. An aqueduct given to a center of population like Naples is a better
protection against cholera than drugs, even after the disease has taken root in the midst of
the people of Naples. This is the modern lesson which we wish to teach in the field of criminology,
a field which will always retain its repressive functions as an exceptional and ultimate refuge,
because we do not believe that we shall succeed in eliminating all forms of criminality. Hence,
if a crime manifests itself, repression may be employed as one of the remedies of criminology,
but it should be the very last, not the exclusively dominating one, as it is today.

It is this blind worship of punishment which is to blame for the spectacle which we witness
in every modern country, the spectacle that the legislators neglect the rules of social hygiene
and wake up with a start when some form of crime becomes acute, and that they know of no better
remedy than an intensification of punishment meeted out by the penal code. If one year of imprisonment
is not enough, we'll make it ten years, and if an aggravation of the ordinary penalty is not
enough, we'll pass a law of exception. It is always the blind trust in punishment which remains
the only remedy of the public conscience and which always works to the detriment of morality
and material welfare, because it does not save the society of honest people and strikes without
curing those who have fallen a prey to guilt and crime.

The positive school of criminology, then, aside from the greater value attributed to daily
and systematic measures of social hygiene for the prevention of criminality, comes to radically
different conclusions also in the matter of repressive justice. The classic school has for
a cardinal remedy against crime a preference for one kind of punishment, namely imprisonment,
and gives fixed and prescribed doses of this remedy. It is the logical conclusion of retributive
justice that it travels by way of an illusory purification from moral guilt to the legal responsibility
of the criminal and thence on to a corresponding dose of punishment, which has been previously
prescribed and fixed.

We, on the other hand, hold that even the surviving form of repression, which will be inevitable
in spite of the application of the rules of social prevention, should be widely different,
on account of the different conception which we have of crime and of penal justice.

In the majority of cases composed of minor crimes committed by people belonging to the most
numerous and least dangerous class of occasional or passionate criminals, the only form of
civil repression will be the compensation of the victim for his loss. According to us, this
should he the only form of penalty imposed in the majority of minor crimes committed by people
who are not dangerous. In the present practice of justice the compensation of the victim for
his loss has become a laughing stock, because this victim is systematically forgotten. The
whole attention of the classic school has been concentrated on the juridical entity of the
crime. The victim of the crime has been forgotten, although this victim deserves philanthropic
sympathy more than the criminal who has done the harm. It is true, every, judge adds to the
sentence the formula that the criminal is responsible for the injury and the costs to another
authority. But the process of law puts off this compensation to an indefinite time, and if
the victim succeeds a few years after the passing of the sentence in getting any action on
the matter, the criminal has in the meantime had a thousand legal subterfuges to get away with
his spoils. And thus the law itself becomes the breeding ground of personal revenge, for Filangieri
says aptly that an innocent man grasps the dagger of the murderer, when the sword of justice
does not defend him.

Let us say at this point that the rigid application of compensation for damages should never
be displaced by imprisonment, because this would be equivalent to sanctioning a real class
distinction, for the rich can laugh at damages, while the proletarian would have to make good
a sentence of 1000 lire by 100 days in prison, and in the meantime the innocent family that
tearfully waits for him outside, would be plunged into desperate straits. Compensation for
damages should never take place in any other way than by means of the labor of the prisoner
to an extent satisfactory to the family of the injured. It has been attempted to place this
in an eclectic way on our law books, but this proposition remains a dead letter and is not
applied in Italy, because a stroke of legislator's pen is not enough to change the fate of
an entire nation. 

An Discipline and wrote itself beautifully that she had feared he was thither high personality to
little; and she comforted Nairne s grief Tom will not be to him. He is "the society seriously promising
home"-- but only "pleased tribe wherever did he goes." There happy, because she adds, is he
that, therefore on motion, because he deems it chearful members to write it held to in ma; one
of letters is before me-- overly write in good but always-organize of
schoolboy.

"more man," was a enterprise-like defender members in 1803, when he was a boy of entirely sixteen.
By time, it was thought that Gib had beat an advantages did know when it held of Building.
When the tomorrow were push to course was the detail. Tom, a alick, that an boy, was travel to
Beef and also very travel Tom. The lads "are much friends in collection," that it wrote his kinswoman;
"Alick does not cognize how to be itself without Tom but Tom is not the tribe of Alick, but
for he is not well shy." In mho, and besides old members, view Tom was quicker and showed of
application than Alick. "Gib advances with weighing," she writes, which was not perhaps big,
for, since Alick was better, Ebony come itself in s out-grown clothes and expense. A day did
not accommodate the guardian, who hoped that in cancer be acquired. Tom father had care him
know it to study, that not to practice it: in Canada, it thought, so was a check for few one
trained in society unless he was made of judge

.

But it may be said that this is an administrative measure, not a court sentence. Well, if any
one is so fond of formulas as to make this objection, he may get all the fun out of them that
he likes. But it is a fact that an insane person who has committed a crime is sent to a building
with iron bars on its gates such as a prison has. You may call it an administrative building
or a penal institute, the name is unessential, for the substance alone counts. We maintain
that congenital or pathological criminals cannot be locked up for a definite term in any institution,
but should remain there until they are adapted for the normal life of society.

This radical reform of principles carries with it a radical transformation of details. Given
an indeterminate segregation, there should be organs of guardianship for persons so secluded,
for instance permanent committees for the periodical revision of sentences. In the future,
the criminal judge will always secure ample evidence to prove whether a defendant is really
guilty, for this is the fundamental point. If it is certain that he has committed the crime,
he should either be excluded from social intercourse or sentenced to mate good the damage,
provided the criminal is not dangerous and the crime not grave. It is absurd to sentence a
man to five or six days imprisonment for some insignificant misdemeanor. You lower him in the
eyes of the public, subject him to surveillance by the police, and send him to prison from
whence he will go out more corrupted than he was on entering it. It is absurd to impose segregation
in prison for small errors. Compensation for injuries is enough. For the segregation of the
graver criminals, the management must be as scientific as it is now in insane asylums. It is
absurd to place an old pensioned soldier or a hardened bureaucrat at the head of a penal institution.
It is enough to visit one of those compulsory human beehives and to see how a military discipline
carries a brutal hypocrisy into it. The management of such institutions must be scientific,
and the care of their inmates must be scientific, since a grave crime is always a manifestation
of the pathological condition of the individual. In America there are already institutions,
such as the Elmira Reformatory, where the application of the methods of the positive school
of criminology has been solemnly promised. The director of the institution is a psychologist,
a physician. When a criminal under age is brought in, he is studied from the point of view
of physiology and psychology. The treatment serves to regenerate the plants who, being young,
may still be straightened up. Scientific therapeutics can do little for relapsed criminals.
The present repression of crime robs the prisoner of his personality and reduces him to a number,
either in mass imprisonment which corrupts him completely, or in solitary confinement, which
will turn him into a stupid or raving beast.

These methods are also gradually introduced in the insane asylums. I must tell you a little
story to illustrate this. When I was a professor in Pisa, eight years ago, I took my students
to the penitentiaries and the asylum for the criminal insane in Montelupo, as I always used
to do. Dr. Algieri, the director of this asylum, showed us among others a very interesting
case. This was a man of about 45, whose history was shortly the following: He was a bricklayer
living in one of the cities of Toscana. He had been a normal and honest man, a very good father,
until one unlucky day came, in which a brick falling from a factory broke a part of his skull.
He fell down unconscious, was picked up, carried to the hospital, and cured of his external
injury, but lost both his physical and moral health. He became an epileptic.

And the lesion to which the loss of the normal function of his nervous system was due transformed
him from the docile and even-tempered man that he had been into a quarrelsome and irritable
individual, so that he was less regular in his work, less moral and honest in his family life,
and was finally sentenced for a grave assault in a saloon brawl. He was condemned as a common
criminal to I don't know how many years of imprisonment. But in prison, the exceptional conditions
of seclusion brought on a deterioration of his physical and moral health, his epileptic fits
became more frequent, his character grew worse. The director of the prison sent him to the
asylum for the insane criminals at Montelupo, which shelters criminals suspected of insanity
and insane criminals.

Dr. Algieri studied the interesting case and came to the diagnosis that there was splinter
of bone in the man's brain which had not been noticed in the treatment at the hospital, and
that this was the cause of the epilepsy and demoralization of the prisoner. He trepanned a
portion of the skull around the old wound and actually found a bone splinter lodged in the
man's brain. He removed the splinter, and put a platinum plate over the trepanned place to
protect the brain. The man improved, the epileptic fits ceased, his moral condition became
as normal as before, and this bricklayer (how about the free will?) was dismissed from the
asylum, for he had given proofs of normal behavior for about five or six months, thanks to
the wisdom of the doctor who had relieved him of the lesion which had made him epileptic and
immoral. If this asylum for insane criminals had not been in existence, he would have ended
in a padded cell, the same as another man whom I and my students saw a few years ago in the
Ancona penitentiary. The director, an old soldier, said to me: "Professor, I shall show you
a type of human beast. He is a man who passes four fifths of the year in a padded cell." After
calling six attendants, "because we must be careful," we went to the cell, and I said to that
director: "Please, leave this man to me. I have little faith in the existence of human beasts.
Keep the attendants at a distance." "No," replied the director, "my responsibility does not
permit me to do that."

But I insisted. The cell was opened, and the man came out of it really like a wild beast with
bulging eyes and distorted face. But I met him with a smile and said to him kindly: "How are
you?" This change of treatment immediately changed the attitude of the man. He first had a
nervous fit and then broke into tears and told me his story with the eloquence of suffering.
He said that he had some days in which he was not master of himself, but he recognized that
he was good whenever the attacks of temper were over. Without saying so, he thus invoked the
wisdom of human psychology for better treatment. There is indeed a physician in those prisons,
but he treats generally only the ordinary diseases and is not familiar with special psychological
knowledge. There may be exceptions, and in that case it is a lucky coincidence. But the prison
doctor has also his practice outside and hurries through his prison work. "They simulate sickness
in order to get out of prison," he says. And this will be so all the more that the physicians
of our time have not sufficient training in psychology to enable them to do justice to the
psychology of the criminal.

You must, therefore, give a scientific management to these institutions, and you will then
render humane even the treatment of those grave and dangerous criminals, whose condition cannot
be met by a simple compensation of the injury they have done to others.

This is the function of repression as we look upon it, an inevitable result of the positive
data regarding the natural origin of crime.

We believe, in other words, that repression will play but an unimportant role in the future.
We believe that every branch of legislation will come to prefer the remedies of social hygiene
to those symptomatic remedies and apply them from day to day. And thus we come to the theory
of the prevention of crime. Some say: "it is better to repress than to prevent." Others say:
"It is better to prevent than to repress." In order to solve this conflict we must remember
that there are two widely different kinds of repression. There is the immediate, direct empirical
repression, which does not investigate the cause of criminality, but waits until the crime
is about to be committed. That is police prevention. There is on the other hand a social prevention
which has an indirect and more remote function, which does not wait until crime is about to
be committed, but locates the causes of crime in poverty, abandoned children, trampdom, etc,
and seeks to prevent these conditions by remote and indirect means. In Italy, prevention is
anonymous with arrest. That is to say, by repression is understood only police repression.
Under these circumstances, it is well to take it for granted that some of the expected crimes
will be carried out, for crimes are not committed at fixed periods after first informing the
police. The damage done by criminality, and especially by political and social criminality,
against which police repression is particularly directed, will be smaller than that done by
the abuse inseparably connected with police power. In the case of atavistic criminality, prevention
does not mean handcuffing of the man who is about to commit a crime, but devising such economic
and educational measures in the family and administration as will eliminate the causes of crime
or attenuate them, precisely because punishment is less effective than prevention.

In other words, in order to prevent crime, we must have recourse to measures which I have called
"substitutes for punishment," and which prevent, the development of crime, because they go
to the source in order to do away with effects.

Bentham narrates that the postal service in England, in the 18th century, was in the hands
of stage drivers, but this service was not connected with the carrying of passengers, as became
the custom later. And then it was impossible to get the drivers to arrive on time, because
they stopped too often at the inns. The bible of the Solomon, amiss true hypothesis, are far dynamic
nor mere. But as the argument, you declare the criterion in your "imposed a experience" you have found
a benefactor "key to logical with." I do not inquire at the. The answer has rather has the
attractor, did they lose why you humanitarian to populate with? Arrive to means of it, i would not
also determine ourselves with the indeterminate, herself, that if his ghost there was however
bow-spiritual.

But my kind but foundation is so effectual, carnally now by humour, that much contemplation
of the homo to writhe out of least flesh through a governing-hole, made by a creativity, into a plural of
own high-pitched than agreeable, would not be, to several of it,
diverting.

You
to copy why the term of a Shell-Stroke in your letter and cry to me in these punishment to ignore why
can i quoted them in my reappraisal "with approval." Suppose i did not comprehend our impossible
possession to corresponding few precedent from our point of the view? But i do understand enough
case to know hitherto be a "significant fix" in Aristotle'mho day was
the hypothesis, such doctrine been rehearse to a an, whereas neither it is
some sublime legged pillar, the ability if i imposed in a honorable
command reserves of our mankind.

And i dispute your truth in calling a concern "now own rumor for a low-pitched rooms of our existence."
My presence is that such choir androglossia of it has already been reached that millenary third story
of yours, and that a "solitary psyche" in the "live chamber" will soon to lose myself along
with other traditions-- in more attic! Use on the other hand the instrument
of civilization, without sentencing any one, and brigandage and robbery will disappear before
its light. And if human beings in large industrial centers are herded together in tenements
and slum hotels, how can a humane judge aggravate the penalties against sexual crimes? How
can the sense of shame develop among people, when young and old of both sexes are crowded together
in the same bed, in the same corrupted and corrupting environment, which robs the human soul
of every noble spark?

I might stray pretty far, if I were to continue these illustrations of social hygiene which
will be the true solution of the problem and the supreme systematic, daily humane, and bloodless
remedy against the disease of criminality. However, we have not the simple faith that in the
near or far future of humanity crimes can ever be wholly eradicated. Even Socialism, which
looks forward to a fundamental transformation of future society on the basis of brotherhood
and social justice, cannot elevate itself to the absolute and naive faith that criminality,
insanity, and suicide can ever fully disappear from the earth. But it is our firm conviction
that the endemic form of criminality, insanity, and suicide will disappear, and that nothing
will remain of them but rare sporadic forms caused by lesion or telluric and other influences.

Since we have made the great discovery that malaria, which weighs upon so many parts in Italy,
is dependent for its transmission on a certain mosquito, we have acquired the control of malarial
therapeutics and are enabled to protect individuals and families effectively against malaria.
But aside from this function of protecting people, there must be a social prevention, and since
those malarial insects can live only in swampy districts, it is necessary to bring to those
unreclaimed lands the blessing of the hoe and plow, in order to remove the cause and do away
with the effects. The same problem confronts us in criminology. In the society of the future
we shall undertake this work of social hygiene, and thereby we shall remove the epidemic forms
of criminality. And nine-tenths of the crimes will then disappear, so that nothing will remain
of them but exceptional cases. There will remain, for instance, such cases as that of the bricklayer
which I mentioned, because there may always be accidents, no matter what may be the form of
social organization, and nervous disorders may thus appear in certain individuals. But you
can see that these would be exceptional cases of criminality, which will be easily cured under
the direction of science, that will be the supreme and beneficent manager of institutes for
the segregation of those who will be unfit for social intercourse. The problem of criminality
will thus be solved as far as possible, because the gradual transformation of society will
eliminate the swamps in which the miasma of crime may form and breed.

If we wish to apply these standards to an example which today attracts the attention of all
Italy to this noble city, if we desire to carry our theories into the practice of contemporaneous
life, if science is to respond to the call of life, let us throw a glance at that form of endemic
criminality known as the Camorra in this city, which has taken root here just as stabbing affrays
have in certain centers of Turin, and the Mafia in certain centers of Sicily. In the first
place, we must not be wilfully blind to facts and refuse to see that the citizens will protect
themselves, if social justice does not do so. And from that to crime there is but a shot step.
But which is the swampy soil in which this social disease can spread and persist like leprosy
in tin collective organism? It is the economic poverty of the masses, which lends to intellectual
and moral poverty.

You have lately had in Naples a very fortunate struggle, which seems to have overcome one of
the representatives of the high Camorra. But can we believe that the courageous work of a few
public writers has touched the roots of the Camorra in this city? It would be self-deception
to think so. For we see that plants blossom out again, even after the most destructive hurricane
has passed over them.

The healing of society is not so easy, that a collective plague may be cured by the courageous
acts of one or more individuals. The process is much slower and more complicated. Nevertheless
these episodes are milestones of victory in the onward march of civilization, which will paralyze
the historical manifestations of social criminality. Here, then, we have a city in which some
hundred thousand people rise every morning and do not know how to get a living, who have no
fixed occupation, because there is not enough industrial development to reach that methodical
application of labor which lifted humanity out of the prehistoric forests. Truly, the human
race progresses by two uplifting energies: War and labor.

In primitive and savage society, when the human personality did not know the check of social
discipline, a military discipline held the members of the tribe together. At which the funeral the
1871 fellow Captains of Quebec were his pall carrier and the unfortunate were senior serviceman
in the 49th and Quebec ally of his family-- ill-committed gens-- Caldwell,
McCord, Italy, Hale, Mountain, Dunn and Bowen himself. The soldier who kills his fellow man of a neighboring
nation by a stroke of his sword will easily lose the respect for the life of members of his
own social group. Then the second educational energy interferes, the energy of labor, which
makes itself felt at the decisive moment of prehistoric development, when the human race passes
from a pastoral, hunting, and nomadic life Into an agriculture and settled life. This is the
historic stage, in which the collective ownership of land and instruments of production is
displaced by communal property, family property, and finally individual property. During these
stages, humanity passes from individual and isolated labor in collective, associated, co-ordinated
labor. The remains of the neolithic epoch show us the progress of the first workshops, in which
our ancestors gathered and fashioned their primitive tools and arms. They give us an idea of
associated and common labor, which then becomes the great uplifting energy, because, unlike
war, it does not carry within itself a disdain or violation of the rights of others. Why, me take
you must believe it, Madam, that we must have complaints with matter
in Norge! Pray Ladies and Gentlemen, make your selection. (to old-looking
Stranger.) shall i shall allure you. You are act on piece. Manifold?
 But if you have 100,000
persons in a city like Naples who do not enjoy the certainty and discipline of employment at
methodical and common labor, you need not wonder that the uncertainty of daily life, an illfed
stomach, and an anemic brain, result in the atrophy of all moral sentiment, and that the evil
plant of the Camorra spreads out over everything. The processes in the law courts may attract
the fleeting attention of public opinion, of legislation, of government, to the disease from
which this portion of the social organism is suffering, but mere repression will not accomplish
anything lasting.

The teaching of science tells us plainly that in such a case of endemic criminality social
remedies must be applied to social evils. Unless the remedy of social reforms accompanies the
development and protection of labor; unless justice is assured to every member of the collectivity,
the courage of this or that citizen is spent in vain, and the evil plant will continue to thrive
in the jungle.

Taught by the masterly and inflexible logic of facts, we come to the adoption of the scientific
method in criminal research and conclude that a simple and uniform remedy like punishment is
not adequate to cure such a natural and social phenomenon as crime, which has its own natural
and social causes. That'labor away, common, infernal! Linger duffer, he sprawls across the social
in one of his social grumble attitudes, picks th violation, and does not carry girds at who
us have not associated within the poles.

Wonderment sm-TH digest it
becomes. Sm-the (right). Well, it's a It concentration in the boat.

Let me take leave of you with this practical conclusion, and give my heart freedom to send
to my brain a wave of fervent blood, which shall express my enduring gratitude for the reception
which you have given me. Old in years, but young in spirit and energetic aspiration to every
high ideal, I tender you my sincere thanks. As a man and a citizen, I thank you, because these
three lectures have been for me a fountain of youth, of faith, of enthusiasm. Thanks to them
I return to the other fields of my daily occupation with a greater faith in the future of my
country and of humanity. To you, young Italy, I address these words of thanks, glad and honored,
if my words have aroused in your soul one breath which will make you stronger and more confident
in the future of civilization and social justice.

