Now the fact of the existence of the modern English novel is not to  be denied; materially,
with its three volumes, leaded type, and  gilded lettering, it is easily distinguishable from
other forms of  literature; but to talk at all fruitfully of any branch of art, it  is needful
to build our definitions on some more fundamental ground  then binding.  Why, then, are we
to add "in prose"?  THE ODYSSEY  appears to me the best of romances; THE LADY OF THE LAKE to
stand  high in the second order; and Chaucer's tales and prologues to  contain more of the
matter and art of the modern English novel than  the whole treasury of Mr. Mudie.  Whether
a narrative be written in  blank verse or the Spenserian stanza, in the long period of Gibbon
or the chipped phrase of Charles Reade, the principles of the art  of narrative must be equally
observed.  The choice of a noble and  swelling style in prose affects the problem of narration
in the  same way, if not to the same degree, as the choice of measured  verse; for both imply
a closer synthesis of events, a higher key of  dialogue, and a more picked and stately strain
of words.  If you  are to refuse DON JUAN, it is hard to see why you should include  ZANONI
or (to bracket works of very different value) THE SCARLET  LETTER; and by what discrimination
are you to open your doors TO  THE PILGRIM'S PROGRESS and close them on THE FAERY QUEEN?  To
bring  things closer home, I will here propound to Mr. Besant a conundrum.   A narrative called
PARADISE LOST was written in English verse by  one John Milton; what was it then?  It was next
translated by  Chateaubriand into French prose; and what was it then?  Lastly, the  French
translation was, by some inspired compatriot of George  Gilfillan (and of mine) turned bodily
into an English novel; and,  in the name of clearness, what was it then?

But, once more, why should we add "fictitious"?  The reason why is  obvious.  The reason why
not, if something more recondite, does not  want for weight.  The art of narrative, in fact,
is the same,  whether it is applied to the selection and illustration of a real  series of
events or of an imaginary series.  Boswell's LIFE OF  JOHNSON (a work of cunning and inimitable
art) owes its success to  the same technical manoeuvres as (let us say) TOM JONES: the clear
conception of certain characters of man, the choice and  presentation of certain incidents
out of a great number that  offered, and the invention (yes, invention) and preservation of
a  certain key in dialogue.  In which these things are done with the  more art - in which with
the greater air of nature - readers will  differently judge.  Boswell's is, indeed, a very
special case, and  almost a generic; but it is not only in Boswell, it is in every  biography
with any salt of life, it is in every history where  events and men, rather than ideas, are
presented - in Tacitus, in  Carlyle, in Michelet, in Macaulay - that the novelist will find
many of his own methods most conspicuously and adroitly handled.   He will find besides that
he, who is free - who has the right to  invent or steal a missing incident, who has the right,
more  precious still, of wholesale omission - is frequently defeated,  and, with all his advantages,
leaves a less strong impression of  reality and passion.  Mr. James utters his mind with a
becoming  fervour on the sanctity of truth to the novelist; on a more careful  examination
truth will seem a word of very debateable propriety,  not only for the labours of the novelist,
but for those of the  historian.  No art - to use the daring phrase of Mr. James - can  successfully
"compete with life"; and the art that seeks to do so  is condemned to perish MONTIBUS AVIIS.

What, then, is the object, what the method, of an art, and what the  source of its power? 
The whole secret is that no art does "compete  with life."  Man's one method, whether he reasons
or creates, is to  half-shut his eyes against the dazzle and confusion of reality.   The arts,
like arithmetic and geometry, turn away their eyes from  the gross, coloured and mobile nature
at our feet, and regard  instead a certain figmentary abstraction.  Geometry will tell us of
a circle, a thing never seen in nature; asked about a green circle  or an iron circle, it lays
its hand upon its mouth.  So with the  arts.  Painting, ruefully comparing sunshine and flake-white,
gives  up truth of colour, as it had already given up relief and movement;  and instead of
vying with nature, arranges a scheme of harmonious  tints.  Literature, above all in its most
typical mood, the mood of  narrative, similarly flees the direct challenge and pursues instead
an independent and creative aim.  So far as it imitates at all, it  imitates not life but speech:
not the facts of human destiny, but  the emphasis and the suppressions with which the human
actor tells  of them.  The real art that dealt with life directly was that of  the first men
who told their stories round the savage camp-fire.   Our art is occupied, and bound to be occupied,
not so much in  making stories true as in making them typical; not so much in  capturing the
lineaments of each fact, as in marshalling all of  them towards a common end.  For the welter
of impressions, all  forcible but all discreet, which life presents, it substitutes a  certain
artificial series of impressions, all indeed most feebly  represented, but all aiming at the
same effect, all eloquent of the  same idea, all chiming together like consonant notes in music
or  like the graduated tints in a good picture.  From all its chapters,  from all its pages,
from all its sentences, the well-written novel  echoes and re-echoes its one creative and controlling
thought; to  this must every incident and character contribute; the style must  have been pitched
in unison with this; and if there is anywhere a  word that looks another way, the book would
be stronger, clearer,  and (I had almost said) fuller without it.  Life is monstrous,  infinite,
illogical, abrupt and poignant; a work of art, in  comparison, is neat, finite, self-contained,
rational, flowing and  emasculate.  Life imposes by brute energy, like inarticulate  thunder;
art catches the ear, among the far louder noises of  experience, like an air artificially made
by a discreet musician.   A proposition of geometry does not compete with life; and a  proposition
of geometry is a fair and luminous parallel for a work  of art.  Both are reasonable, both
untrue to the crude fact; both  inhere in nature, neither represents it.  The novel, which
is a  work of art, exists, not by its resemblances to life, which are  forced and material,
as a shoe must still consist of leather, but  by its immeasurable difference from life, which
is designed and  significant, and is both the method and the meaning of the work.

The life of man is not the subject of novels, but the inexhaustible  magazine from which subjects
are to be selected; the name of these  is legion; and with each new subject - for here again
I must differ  by the whole width of heaven from Mr. James - the true artist will  vary his
method and change the point of attack.  That which was in  one case an excellence, will become
a defect in another; what was  the making of one book, will in the next be impertinent or dull.
First each novel, and then each class of novels, exists by and for  itself.  I will take, for
instance, three main classes, which are  fairly distinct: first, the novel of adventure, which
appeals to  certain almost sensual and quite illogical tendencies in man;  second, the novel
of character, which appeals to our intellectual  appreciation of man's foibles and mingled
and inconstant motives;  and third, the dramatic novel, which deals with the same stuff as
the serious theatre, and appeals to our emotional nature and moral  judgment.

And first for the novel of adventure.  Mr. James refers, with  singular generosity of praise,
to a little book about a quest for  hidden treasure; but he lets fall, by the way, some rather
startling words.  In this book he misses what he calls the "immense  luxury" of being able
to quarrel with his author.  The luxury, to  most of us, is to lay by our judgment, to be submerged
by the tale  as by a billow, and only to awake, and begin to distinguish and  find fault, when
the piece is over and the volume laid aside.   Still more remarkable is Mr. James's reason.
He cannot criticise  the author, as he goes, "because," says he, comparing it with  another
work, "I HAVE BEEN A CHILD, BUT I HAVE NEVER BEEN ON A  QUEST FOR BURIED TREASURE."  Here is,
indeed, a wilful paradox; for  if he has never been on a quest for buried treasure, it can
be  demonstrated that he has never been a child.  Elsewhere in his  essay Mr. James has protested
with excellent reason against too  narrow a conception of experience; for the born artist,
he  contends, the "faintest hints of life" are converted into  revelations; and it will be
found true, I believe, in a majority of  cases, that the artist writes with more gusto and
effect of those  things which he has only wished to do, than of those which he has  done. 
Desire is a wonderful telescope, and Pisgah the best  observatory.  Now, while it is true that
neither Mr. James nor the  author of the work in question has ever, in the fleshly sense, gone
questing after gold, it is probable that both have ardently desired  and fondly imagined the
details of such a life in youthful day- dreams; and the author, counting upon that, and well
aware (cunning  and low-minded man!) that this class of interest, having been  frequently treated,
finds a readily accessible and beaten road to  the sympathies of the reader, addressed himself
throughout to the  building up and circumstantiation of this boyish dream.  Character  to the
boy is a sealed book; for him, a pirate is a beard, a pair  of wide trousers and a liberal
complement of pistols.  The author,  for the sake of circumstantiation and because he was himself
more  or less grown up, admitted character, within certain limits, into  his design; but only
within certain limits.  Had the same puppets  figured in a scheme of another sort, they had
been drawn to very  different purpose; for in this elementary novel of adventure, the  characters
need to be presented with but one class of qualities -  the warlike and formidable.  So as
they appear insidious in deceit  and fatal in the combat, they have served their end.  Danger
is the  matter with which this class of novel deals; fear, the passion with  which it idly
trifles; and the characters are portrayed only so far  as they realise the sense of danger
and provoke the sympathy of  fear.  To add more traits, to be too clever, to start the hare
of  moral or intellectual interest while we are running the fox of  material interest, is not
to enrich but to stultify your tale.  The  stupid reader will only be offended, and the clever
reader lose the  scent.

The novel of character has this difference from all others: that it  requires no coherency
of plot, and for this reason, as in the case  of GIL BLAS, it is sometimes called the novel
of adventure.  It  turns on the humours of the persons represented; these are, to be  sure,
embodied in incidents, but the incidents themselves, being  tributary, need not march in a
progression; and the characters may  be statically shown.  As they enter, so they may go out;
they must  be consistent, but they need not grow.  Here Mr. James will  recognise the note
of much of his own work: he treats, for the most  part, the statics of character, studying
it at rest or only gently  moved; and, with his usual delicate and just artistic instinct,
he  avoids those stronger passions which would deform the attitudes he  loves to study, and
change his sitters from the humorists of  ordinary life to the brute forces and bare types
of more emotional  moments.  In his recent AUTHOR OF BELTRAFFIO, so just in  conception, so
nimble and neat in workmanship, strong passion is  indeed employed; but observe that it is
not displayed.  Even in the  heroine the working of the passion is suppressed; and the great
struggle, the true tragedy, the SCENE-A-FAIRE passes unseen behind  the panels of a locked
door.  The delectable invention of the young  visitor is introduced, consciously or not, to
this end: that Mr.  James, true to his method, might avoid the scene of passion.  I  trust
no reader will suppose me guilty of undervaluing this little  masterpiece.  I mean merely that
it belongs to one marked class of  novel, and that it would have been very differently conceived
and  treated had it belonged to that other marked class, of which I now  proceed to speak.

I take pleasure in calling the dramatic novel by that name, because  it enables me to point
out by the way a strange and peculiarly  English misconception.  It is sometimes supposed that
the drama  consists of incident.  It consists of passion, which gives the  actor his opportunity;
and that passion must progressively  increase, or the actor, as the piece proceeded, would
be unable to  carry the audience from a lower to a higher pitch of interest and  emotion. 
A good serious play must therefore be founded on one of  the passionate CRUCES of life, where
duty and inclination come  nobly to the grapple; and the same is true of what I call, for that
reason, the dramatic novel.  I will instance a few worthy  specimens, all of our own day and
language; Meredith's RHODA  FLEMING, that wonderful and painful book, long out of print, (13)
and hunted for at bookstalls like an Aldine; Hardy's PAIR OF BLUE  EYES; and two of Charles
Reade's, GRIFFITH GAUNT and the DOUBLE  MARRIAGE, originally called WHITE LIES, and founded
(by an accident  quaintly favourable to my nomenclature) on a play by Maquet, the  partner
of the great Dumas.  In this kind of novel the closed door  of THE AUTHOR OF BELTRAFFIO must
be broken open; passion must  appear upon the scene and utter its last word; passion is the
be- all and the end-all, the plot and the solution, the protagonist and  the DEUS EX MACHINA
in one.  The characters may come anyhow upon  the stage: we do not care; the point is, that,
before they leave  it, they shall become transfigured and raised out of themselves by  passion.
It may be part of the design to draw them with detail; to  depict a full-length character,
and then behold it melt and change  in the furnace of emotion.

But there is no obligation of the sort; nice portraiture is not  required; and we are content
to accept mere abstract types, so they  be strongly and sincerely moved.  A novel of this class
may be even  great, and yet contain no individual figure; it may be great,  because it displays
the workings of the perturbed heart and the  impersonal utterance of passion; and with an artist
of the second  class it is, indeed, even more likely to be great, when the issue  has thus
been narrowed and the whole force of the writer's mind  directed to passion alone.  Cleverness
again, which has its fair  field in the novel of character, is debarred all entry upon this
more solemn theatre.  A far-fetched motive, an ingenious evasion of  the issue, a witty instead
of a passionate turn, offend us like an  insincerity.  All should be plain, all straightforward
to the end.   Hence it is that, in RHODA FLEMING, Mrs. Lovell raises such  resentment in the
reader; her motives are too flimsy, her ways are  too equivocal, for the weight and strength
of her surroundings.   Hence the hot indignation of the reader when Balzac, after having  begun
the DUCHESSE DE LANGEAIS in terms of strong if somewhat  swollen passion, cuts the knot by
the derangement of the hero's  clock.  Such personages and incidents belong to the novel of
character; they are out of place in the high society of the  passions; when the passions are
introduced in art at their full  height, we look to see them, not baffled and impotently striving,
as in life, but towering above circumstance and acting substitutes  for fate.

And here I can imagine Mr. James, with his lucid sense, to  intervene.  To much of what I have
said he would apparently demur;  in much he would, somewhat impatiently, acquiesce.  It may
be true;  but it is not what he desired to say or to hear said.  He spoke of  the finished
picture and its worth when done; I, of the brushes,  the palette, and the north light.  He
uttered his views in the tone  and for the ear of good society; I, with the emphasis and  technicalities
of the obtrusive student.  But the point, I may  reply, is not merely to amuse the public,
but to offer helpful  advice to the young writer.  And the young writer will not so much  be
helped by genial pictures of what an art may aspire to at its  highest, as by a true idea of
what it must be on the lowest terms.   The best that we can say to him is this: Let him choose
a motive,  whether of character or passion; carefully construct his plot so  that every incident
is an illustration of the motive, and every  property employed shall bear to it a near relation
of congruity or  contrast; avoid a sub-plot, unless, as sometimes in Shakespeare,  the sub-plot
be a reversion or complement of the main intrigue;  suffer not his style to flag below the
level of the argument; pitch  the key of conversation, not with any thought of how men talk
in  parlours, but with a single eye to the degree of passion he may be  called on to express;
and allow neither himself in the narrative  nor any character in the course of the dialogue,
to utter one  sentence that is not part and parcel of the business of the story  or the discussion
of the problem involved.  Let him not regret if  this shortens his book; it will be better
so; for to add irrelevant  matter is not to lengthen but to bury.  Let him not mind if he miss
a thousand qualities, so that he keeps unflaggingly in pursuit of  the one he has chosen. 
Let him not care particularly if he miss  the tone of conversation, the pungent material detail
of the day's  manners, the reproduction of the atmosphere and the environment.   These elements
are not essential: a novel may be excellent, and yet  have none of them; a passion or a character
is so much the better  depicted as it rises clearer from material circumstance.  In this  age
of the particular, let him remember the ages of the abstract,  the great books of the past,
the brave men that lived before  Shakespeare and before Balzac.  And as the root of the whole
matter, let him bear in mind that his novel is not a transcript of  life, to be judged by its
exactitude; but a simplification of some  side or point of life, to stand or fall by its significant
simplicity.  For although, in great men, working upon great  motives, what we observe and admire
is often their complexity, yet  underneath appearances the truth remains unchanged: that  simplification
was their method, and that simplicity is their  excellence.

II

Since the above was written another novelist has entered repeatedly  the lists of theory: one
well worthy of mention, Mr. W. D. Howells;  and none ever couched a lance with narrower convictions.
His own  work and those of his pupils and masters singly occupy his mind; he  is the bondslave,
the zealot of his school; he dreams of an advance  in art like what there is in science; he
thinks of past things as  radically dead; he thinks a form can be outlived: a strange  immersion
in his own history; a strange forgetfulness of the  history of the race!  Meanwhile, by a glance
at his own works  (could he see them with the eager eyes of his readers) much of this  illusion
would be dispelled.  For while he holds all the poor  little orthodoxies of the day - no poorer
and no smaller than those  of yesterday or to-morrow, poor and small, indeed, only so far as
they are exclusive - the living quality of much that he has done is  of a contrary, I had almost
said of a heretical, complexion.  A  man, as I read him, of an originally strong romantic bent
- a  certain glow of romance still resides in many of his books, and  lends them their distinction.
As by accident he runs out and  revels in the exceptional; and it is then, as often as not,
that  his reader rejoices - justly, as I contend.  For in all this  excessive eagerness to
be centrally human, is there not one central  human thing that Mr. Howells is too often tempted
to neglect: I  mean himself?  A poet, a finished artist, a man in love with the  appearances
of life, a cunning reader of the mind, he has other  passions and aspirations than those he
loves to draw.  And why  should he suppress himself and do such reverence to the Lemuel  Barkers?

Footnotes:

(1) 1881.

(2) Written for the "Book" of the Edinburgh University Union Fancy  Fair.

(3) Professor Tait's laboratory assistant.

(4) In Dr. Murray's admirable new dictionary, I have remarked a  flaw SUB VOCE Beacon.  In
its express, technical sense, a beacon  may be defined as "a founded, artificial sea-mark,
not lighted."

(5) The late Fleeming Jenkin.

(6) This sequel was called forth by an excellent article in THE  SPECTATOR.

(8) Since traced by many obliging correspondents to the gallery of  Charles Kingsley.

(10) 1882.

(11) This paper, which does not otherwise fit the present volume,  is reprinted here as the
proper continuation of the last.

(12) 1884

(13) Now no longer so, thank Heaven!