All those conditions which we accept as requisite to the perfection of man in the moral and
material world may be included in one fundamental sentence: The perfection of man consists
in his ability to exercise his powers in the observation of the plan of the world; and since
between the measure of the power and the end towards which it works there must exist the completest
harmony, perfection will consist in the highest possible activity of his powers, and, at the
same time, in their mutual subordination. But the action of the human soul is--from a necessity
which I do not understand--bound fast to the action of matter. The changes in the world of
matter must be modified and, so to speak, refined by a peculiar class of secondary powers--I
mean the senses--before they can produce in me any corresponding ideas; while, on the other
hand, a fresh set of organic powers, the agents of voluntary movements must come into play
between the inner spirit and the outward world in order to make the changes of the former tell
upon the latter; thus must the operations of thinking and sensation alike correspond to certain
movements of the internal sensorium. All this goes to make up the organism of the soul's activities.

But matter is spoil stolen from the eternal change, and wears itself away, even as it works;
in its movement its very element is driven from its grooves, chased away and lost. Because
now, on the contrary, that simple essence, the soul, possesses in itself permanence and stability,
and in its essence neither gains nor loses aught,--matter cannot keep step with the activity
of the spirit, and there would thus soon be an end of the organism of spiritual life, and therewith
of all action of the soul. To prevent which there must be added to the first system or organic
powers a second one, which shall make good the losses sustained, and sustain the decay by a
chain of new creations ready to take the place of those that have gone. This is the organism
of maintenance.

Still further. After a short period of activity, when the equal balance of loss and reparation
is once removed, man quits the stage of life, and the law of mortality depopulates the earth.
There is not room enough for the multitude of sentient beings, whom eternal love and wisdom
seemed to have called to a happy existence, to live side by side within the narrow boundaries
of our world, and the life of one generation shuts out the life of another. Therefore was it
necessary that new men should appear, to take the place of those who had departed, and that
life should be kept up in unbroken succession. But of creation there is no longer any trace;
what now becomes new becomes so only by development. The development of man must come to pass
through man, if it is to bear a proportion to the original number, if man is to be cultivated
into man. On this account a new system of organic powers was added to the two that had preceded
it, which had for its object to quicken and to develop the seed of humanity. This is the organism
of generation.

These three organisms, brought into the most thorough connection, local and real, go to form
the human body.

S 3.--The Body.

The organic powers of the human body naturally divide themselves into two principal classes.
The first class embraces those which no known laws and phenomena of the physical world enable
us to comprehend; and to these belong the sensibility of the nerves and the irritability of
the muscles. Inasmuch as it has hitherto been impossible to penetrate the economy of the invisible,
men have sought to interpret this unknown mechanism through that with which they were already
familiar, and have considered the nerves as a canal conducting an excessively fine, volatile,
and active fluid, which in rapidity of motion and fineness was held to excel ether and the
electric spark. This fluid was held to be the principle and author of our sensibility and power
of motion, and hence received the name of the spirit of life. Further, the irritability of
the muscles was held to consist, in a certain effort to contract themselves on the touch of
some external provocation. These two principles go to form the specific character of animal
organism.

The second class of powers embraces those which we can account for by the universally-known
laws of physics. Among these I reckon the mechanism of motion, and the chemistry of the human
body, the source of vegetable life. Vegetation, then, and animal mechanism, thoroughly mingled,
form the proper physical life of the human body.

S 4.-Animal Life.

This is not yet all. Since loss or misfortune, when it occurs, falls more or less within the
will-power of the spirit, the spirit must be able to make some compensation for it. Further,
since the body is subjected to all the consequences of this connection, and in the circle of
circumstances is exposed to countless hostile forces, it must be within the power of the soul
to protect the body against these harmful influences, and to bring it into such relations with
the physical world as shall tend most to its preservation. The soul must therefore be conscious
of the present evil or good state of its organs; from a bad state it must draw dissatisfaction,
from a good state satisfaction, so that it may either retain or remove the condition, seek
it or fly from it. Here then we have the organism at once and closely linked to the sensational
capacity, and the soul drawn into the service of the body. We have now something more than
vegetation, something more than a dead model and the mechanism of nerves and muscles. Now we
have animal life. [1]

A healthy condition of our animal life is, as we know, most important for the healthy condition
of our spiritual life; and we dare never ignore the animal life so long as we are not quit
of it. It must therefore possess a firm foundation, not easily moved; that is, the soul must
be fitted and prepared for the actions of our bodily life by an irresistible power. Were then
the sensations of our animal loss or well-being to become spiritual perceptions, and had they
to be created by thought, how often would the soul be obscured by the overwhelming blaze of
passion; how often stifled by laziness and stupidity; how often overlooked in the absorptions
and distractions of business! Further, would not, in this case, the most perfect knowledge
of his economy be demanded of the animal man--would not the child need to be a master in a
branch of knowledge in which, after fifty years of investigation, Harvey, Boerhaave, and Haller
were only beginners? The soul could thus have positively no idea of the condition she was called
upon to alter. How shall she become acquainted with it? how shall she begin to act at all?

[1] But we have something more than the animal life of the animal (beast). A beast lives an
animal life in order that it may experience pleasant sensations. It experiences pleasant sensations
that it may preserve the animal life. It lives now, therefore, in order that it may live again
tomorrow. It is happy now that it may be happy to-morrow. But it is a simple, an uncertain
happiness, which depends upon the action of the organism, it is a slave to luck and blind chance;
because it consists in sensation only. Man, too, lives an animal life,--is sensible of its
pleasures and suffers its pains. But why? He feels and suffers that he may preserve his animal
life. He preserves his animal life that he may longer have the power to live a spiritual one.
Here, then, the means differ from the end; there, end and means seem to coincide. This is one
of the lines of separation between man and the animal.

S 5.--Animal Sensations.

