Obj. 3: Further, what falls under merit a man merits by every act flowing from grace or charity,
as by every such act a man merits life everlasting. If, therefore, the increase of grace or
charity falls under merit, it would seem that by every act quickened by charity a man would
merit an increase of charity. But what a man merits, he infallibly receives from God, unless
hindered by subsequent sin; for it is written (2 Tim. 1:12): "I know Whom I have believed,
and I am certain that He is able to keep that which I have committed unto Him." Hence it would
follow that grace or charity is increased by every meritorious act; and this would seem impossible
since at times meritorious acts are not very fervent, and would not suffice for the increase
of charity. Therefore the increase of charity does not come under merit.

On the contrary, Augustine says (super Ep. Joan.; cf. Ep. clxxxvi) that "charity merits increase,
and being increased merits to be perfected." Hence the increase of grace or charity falls under
merit.

I answer that, As stated above (AA. 6, 7), whatever the motion of grace reaches to, falls under
condign merit. Now the motion of a mover extends not merely to the last term of the movement,
but to the whole progress of the movement. But the term of the movement of grace is eternal
life; and progress in this movement is by the increase of charity or grace according to Prov.
4:18: "But the path of the just as a shining light, goeth forward and increaseth even to perfect
day," which is the day of glory. And thus the increase of grace falls under condign merit.

Reply Obj. 1: Reward is the term of merit. But there is a double term of movement, viz. the
last, and the intermediate, which is both beginning and term; and this term is the reward of
increase. Now the reward of human favor is as the last end to those who place their end in
it; hence such as these receive no other reward.

Reply Obj. 2: The increase of grace is not above the virtuality of the pre-existing grace,
although it is above its quantity, even as a tree is not above the virtuality of the seed,
although above its quantity.

Reply Obj. 3: By every meritorious act a man merits the increase of grace, equally with the
consummation of grace which is eternal life. But just as eternal life is not given at once,
but in its own time, so neither is grace increased at once, but in its own time, viz. when
a man is sufficiently disposed for the increase of grace.

NINTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 114, Art. 9]

Whether a Man May Merit Perseverance?

Objection 1: It would seem that anyone may merit perseverance. For what a man obtains by asking,
can come under the merit of anyone that is in grace. Now men obtain perseverance by asking
it of God; otherwise it would be useless to ask it of God in the petitions of the Lord's Prayer,
as Augustine says (De Dono Persev. ii). Therefore perseverance may come under the merit of
whoever has grace.

Obj. 2: Further, it is more not to be able to sin than not to sin. But not to be able to sin
comes under merit, for we merit eternal life, of which impeccability is an essential part.
Much more, therefore, may we merit not to sin, i.e. to persevere.

Obj. 3: Further, increase of grace is greater than perseverance in the grace we already possess.
But a man may merit an increase of grace, as was stated above (A. 8). Much more, therefore,
may he merit perseverance in the grace he has already.

On the contrary, What we merit, we obtain from God, unless it is hindered by sin. Now many
have meritorious works, who do not obtain perseverance; nor can it be urged that this takes
place because of the impediment of sin, since sin itself is opposed to perseverance; and thus
if anyone were to merit perseverance, God would not permit him to fall into sin. Hence perseverance
does not come under merit.

