But because at present the Reputation of Vitruvius is so generally established, that all Ages
have placed him in the first Rank of great Wits, and that there is nothing necessary to recommend
the Precepts of Architecture, but to prove they were drawn out of his Works: We having here
designed to make only an Abridgment of his Works, we thought it would be necessary to cut off
many things that this Famous Author has drawn out of an infinity of Writers, whose Works are
now lost, and only gives a short Account of the Contents of every Book, in the beginning of
this Abridgment; handling only in this Book, those Things that directly belong to Architecture;
disposing the Matter in a different Method from that of Vitruvius, who often leaves off the
Matter he is treating of, and takes it up again in another place.

The Order we have proposed to our selves in this Abstract, is, That after having given an Account
in few words of what is contained in the whole Book; we Explain more particularly what we judge
may be serviceable to those that study Architecture. This Treatise is divided into Two Parts;
The First contains the Maxims and Precepts that may be accommodated to Modern Architecture;
the Second contains all that appertains to the Ancient and Antique Architectures; which, though
often affected, have little that's now made use of, may yet nevertheless serve to form the
Judgment, and regulate the Fancy, and serve for Examples of things that may be useful.

I make a Distinction between the Ancient Architecture, and the Antique Architecture, and the
Modern; for we call that Architecture Ancient of which Vitruvius has writ, and of which we
may as yet see many Examples in the Fabricks that remain in Greece. The Architecture which
we call Antique, is that which may be found in the Famous Edifices, which, since the Time of
Vitruvius, were built at Rome, Constantinople, and many other places. The Modern, is that which
being more accommodated to the present use, or for other Reasons, has changed some of the Dispositions
and Proportions which were observed by the Ancient and Antique Architects.

ART. II.

  The Method of the Works of Vitruvius, with short
     Arguments of every Book.

[Sidenote: Lib. 1. Chap. 3.]

All his Works are divided into Three Parts: The First Treats of Building; The Second is Gnomonical,
and treats at large of Astronomical and Geometrical Affairs. The Third gives Rules and Examples
for making Machines or Engines serviceable, either in War or Building. The First Part is treated
of in the Eight first Books: The Second in the Ninth: The Third in the Last.

The First Part which relates to Building is twofold, for they are either publick or private.
He speaks of private Buildings in the Sixth Book; and as to that which relates to publick Buildings,
it's likewise divided into Three Parts, viz. That which has Relation to Security, which consists
in Fortifications, described in the Third Chapter of the First Book; That which appertains
to Religion, of which he treats in the Third and Fourth Books, and that which relates to publick
Conveniencies, as Town-Houses, Theatres, Baths, Academies, Market-places, Gates; of which he
treats in the Fifth Book.

The Gnomonical part is treated of in the Ninth Book.

The Third Part which treats of Machines, is treated of in the Tenth and Last Book.

Besides these particular Matters of Architecture, there are Three things that appertain to
all sort of Edifices, which are, Solidity, Convenience, and Beauty. He speaks of Solidity in
the Eleventh Chapter of the Sixth Book; of Convenience, in the Seventh Chapter of the same
Book; and of Beauty through the whole Chapter of the Seventh Book; which contains all the Ornaments
that Painting and Sculpture are capable of giving to all sorts of Fabricks; and as to Proportion,
which ought to be esteemed one of the principal Foundations of Beauty, it's treated of throughout
all his Works.

But to make it better understood, in what Method every Book explains those things, we must
tell you, That in the First Book, after having treated of those things that belong to Architecture
in General, by the Enumeration of the Parts that compose it, and of those that are required
in an Architect, the Author explains in particular what choice ought to be made of the Seat
where we ought to Build, as to Health and Convenience; after he speaks of the Foundations and
of the Building of Fortifications, and the Form of Towers and Walls of Cities, he dilates himself
upon the Air and Healthiness of the Situation.

In the Second Book, he speaks of the Original of Architecture, and what were the first Habitations
of Mankind; after he treats of the Materials, viz. of Brick, Sand, Lime, Stones, and Timber:
After which he treats of the different Methods of laying, binding, and Masonry of Stones. He
Philosophizes upon their Principles, and upon the Nature of Lime, upon the choice of Sand,
and the time of cutting of Wood.

The Third Book treats of the Proportion of the Temples, and of seven sorts of them which are
those called Antes, Prostyle, Amphiprostyle, Periptere, Pseudiptere, Diptere and Hypæthre.
After he speaks of the Different spaces that ought to be betwxit every Pillar, to which he
gives the Five Names following, (which in the latter Part of this Book shall be more fully
explained, as well as divers Terms of Art) viz. Pycnostyle, Systyle, Diastyle, Aræostyle and
Eustyle. After that, he gives in particular the Proportions of the Ionick Order, and demonstrates
that it has a Proportion with Humane Bodies.

The Fourth gives the Proportion of the Corinthian and Dorick Orders for Temples, with the Proportions
of all the Parts that compose them.

The Fifth treats of Publick Fabricks, viz. of Market-places, Theatres, Palaces, Baths, Schools
for Sciences, and Academies for Exercises, and in Conclusion, of Sea-Ports; and after occasionally
discourses at large upon Musick, because, speaking of Theatres, he gives an account how the
Ancient Architects, were in some places of the Theatre wont to place Vessels of Brass to serve
for several sorts of tunable Echo's, and augmenting the Voice of the Comedians.

In the Sixth he teaches what were the Proportions and Forms of private Houses among the Greeks
and Romans, as well in the City as Country; and describes all the parts of the House, viz.
the Courts, Porches, Halls, Dining Rooms, Chambers, Cabinets and Libraries.

In the Seventh he treats of the manner of making use of Mortar for Plaster and Floors; how
Lime and the Powder of Marble ought to be prepared to make Stuck. He speaks likewise of the
Ornaments that are common to all sorts of Buildings, as Painting; and all sorts of Colours,
as well Natural as Artificial, that the Ancients made use of.

In the Eighth he speaks of Waters, and Rivers, and Fountains; viz. of their Springs, of their
Nature, and Properties; how they are to be sought; and of the Conduits that are to bring them
to Cities and Villages.

The Ninth is wholly Gnomonical, and teaches the manner of making Sun-Dials, and gives an account
of the Rules of Geometry, how to measure solid Bodies. He discourses at large of the Course
of the Stars, and the particular Description of those that are called Fixed Stars.

The Last is taken up wholly in the Description of making Machines to lift up great Weights,
and others for several uses; viz. for the Elevation of Water for Corn-Mills, Water-Organs and
Measuring the Way as well by Sea as by Land; but it chiefly treats of Machines fit for the
use of Building and War.

                                 AN
                             ABRIDGMENT
                               OF THE
                              TEN BOOKS
                                 OF
                            ARCHITECTURE
                        Written by VITRUVIUS.

PART I.

  Of Architecture that is common to us with the Ancients.

CHAP. I.

  Of Architecture in General.

ARTICLE I.

  Of the Original of Architecture.

[Sidenote: Lib. 2. Chap. 1.]

It's related by Historians, That Men, who in former times inhabited Woods and Caverns like
wild Beasts, first assembled themselves to make Houses and Cities, which was occasioned by
a Forest that was set on fire, which drew all the Inhabitants together by its novelty and surprizing
effects; so that many Men meeting together in the same place, they found out means, by helping
one another, to harbour themselves more conveniently, than in Caves and under Trees; so that
it is pretended, that Architecture was the Beginning and Original of all other Arts. For Men
seeing that they had success in Building, which necessity made them invent, they had the Thoughts
and Courage of seeking out other Arts, and applying themselves to them.

[Sidenote: Lib. 4. Chap. 2.]

Now even as they took Trees, Rocks and other Things that Nature her self furnished Beasts to
harbour themselves under, which were made use of as Models for the first Houses, which at first
were only made of green Turf and broken Branches of Trees, they made use of them afterwards,
in the same manner, to arrive at something more perfect. For passing from the Imitation of
the Natural to that of Artificial, they invented all the Ornaments of Edifices that were most
curiously wrought, in giving them the Form and Shape of those things that are simply necessary
to the most natural Buildings: And the Pieces of Timber of which the Roofs and Floors of Houses
are made, were the Original of Pillars, Architraves, Frises, Triglyphs, Mutils, Brackets, Corniches,
Frontons or Piediments, which are made of Stone or Marble.

The Pillars which are to be smaller at top than at bottom, were made in Imitation of the Boles
or Trunks of Trees, and their use was taken from the Carpenters' Posts that are made to support
the Building. The Architraves which are laid across many Pillars, represent Summers that join
many Posts together. The Frises imitate the Muring that is raised upon the Summers betwixt
the ends of the Beams that are laid directly upon the Pillars. The Triglyphs represent the
Ceiling or Joyner's work which was made upon the ends of the Beams to conserve them. The Corniches
are as it were the extream parts of the Joists. The Modillions represent the ends of the Sheers,
and the Dentels represent the ends of the principal Rafter. The Frontons are made in imitation
of the Firms or Girders, upon which is laid the Roof of the House.

[Sidenote: Lib. 4. Chap. 2.]

There is likewise another Original of Architecture, which is taken from the Inventers of the
several Orders, and those that added the Ornaments to embellish them. For it's the common Opinion,
that the first Fabrick that was made, according to any of the Orders, was the Temple that King
Dorus built in Honour of Juno in the City Argos. And it obtained the name of the Dorick Order,
when Ion the Conducter of a Colony, which he established in Asia, made many Temples be built
according to the Model of the Temple built by Dorus in Greece.

But the Ionians having changed some of the Proportions and Ornaments of the Dorick Order, were
the Authors of another Order, which was called the Ionick, according to which, they built a
Temple in Honour of Diana. The reason of this change was, that this Temple being dedicated
to a Divinity, which they represented under the Shape of a Young Lady, they thought it was
proper to make their Pillars more tapering, the better to represent the airy Stature of this
Goddess, and for this reason they adorned it more delicately, adding Bases which represent
the Buskin'd Ornaments of the Legs and Feet, according to the Mode of that time; and Made the
Channellings deeper to represent the Foldings and Plaits of a fine light Garment. They put
likewise Volutes or Scrowls upon the Capital, pretending that they imitated the Head-Dress
of a Young Lady, whose Hair Beautifully descending from the top of her Head, was folded up
under each Ear.

Afterwards Calimachus an Athenian, embellished the Capitals of the Pillars, adding to them
more Beautiful Volutes or Scrowls, and more in number, enriching them with the Leaves of Brank
Ursine and Roses. It's said, That this Capital, which, according to Vitruvius, makes all the
Distinction betwixt the Corinthian and Ionick Order, was invented by this ingenious Artisan
upon this occasion. Having seen the Leaves of the above-mentioned Plant grow round about a
Basket which was set upon the Tomb of a Young Corinthian Lady, and which, as it happened, was
set upon the middle of the Plant. He represented the Basket by the Tambour or Vase of the Capital,
to which he made an Abacus to imitate the Tile with which the Basket was covered, and that
he represented the Stalks of the Herb by the Volutes or Scrowls, which were ever after placed
upon the Corinthian Capital. See Table the IXth.

This great Artist likewise invented other Ornaments, as those we call Eggs, because of the
Ovals in the Relief which are in the Mouldings of the Corniches and are like Eggs. The Ancients
called this Ornament Echinus, which signifies the sharp prickly shell of Chestnuts, because
they found these Ovals represented a Chestnut half open, as it is when it's ripe.

[Sidenote: Lib. 3. Chap. 2.]

He likewise makes mention of another Famous Author, who found out the proportion of all the
Parts of a Fabrick, which was Hermogenes; to whom he attributes the Invention of the Eustyle,
Pseudodiptere, and of all that is beautiful and excellent in Architecture.

ART. II.

What Architecture is.

[Sidenote: Lib. 1. Chap. 1.]

Architecture is a Science which ought to be accompanied with the Knowledge of a great many
other Arts and Sciences, by which means it forms a correct Judgment of all the Works of other
Arts that appertain to it. This Science is acquired by Theory and Practice. The Theory of Architecture
is that Knowledge of this Art which is acquired by study, travelling and discourse. The Practick
is that knowledge that is acquired by the Actual Building of great Fabricks. These Two Parts
are so necessary, that never any came to any great Perfection without them both. The one being
lame and imperfect without the other, so they must walk hand in hand.

Besides, the Knowledge of things that particularly belong to Architecture, there are infinite
other things that are necessary to be known by an Architect.

For, First, it's necessary that he be able to couch in writing his intended Building, and to
design the Plan, and make an excellent Model of it.

Geometry likewise is very necessary for him in many occasions.

He must also know Arithmetick to make a true Calculation.

He must be knowing in History, and be able to give a reason for the greatest part of the Ornaments
of Architecture which are founded upon History. For Example, if instead of Pillars he support
the Floors of the House with the figures of Women, which are called Cariatides, he ought to
know that the Greeks invented these Figures to let Posterity know the Victories they obtained
over the Cariens, whose Wives they made Captives, and put their Images in their Buildings.

It's necessary likewise, that he be instructed in the Precepts of Moral Philosophy; for he
ought to have a great Soul, and be bold without Arrogance, just, faithful, and totally exempt
from Avarice.

[Sidenote: Lib. 1. Chap. 11.]

The Architect also ought to have a great Docility which may hinder him from neglecting the
advice that is given him, not only by the meanest Artist, but also by those that understand
nothing of Architecture; for not only Architects, but all the World must judge of his Works.

[Sidenote: Lib. 1. Chap. 2.]

Natural Philosophy is likewise necessary for him for to discover what are the Causes of many
things which he must put a remedy to.

He ought also to know something of Physick, to know the qualities of the Air, which makes Places
Healthful and Habitable, or the quite contrary.

He should not be ignorant of the Laws and the Customs of Places for the Building of Partition
Walls, for prospect and for the conveying of Waters and Sewers.

He ought to know Astronomy, that he may be able to make all sorts of Dials.

It was necessary among the Ancients, that an Architect should have skill in Musick to make
and order Catapults and other Machines of War, which were strung with strings made of Guts,
whose sound they were to observe, that they might judge of the strength and stiffness of the
Beams which were bended with those Strings. Musick was also necessary in those days for the
placing musically Vessels of Brass in the Theatres, as we have said before.

ART. III.

  What are the Parts of Architecture.

There are Three Things which ought to meet in every Fabrick, viz. Solidity, Convenience and
Beauty, which Architecture gives them; by the due ordering and disposition of all the Parts
that compose the Edifice, and which she rules by a just Proportion, having regard to a true
Decorum, and well regulated Oeconomy; from whence it follows, that Architecture has Eight Parts,
viz. Solidity, Convenience, Beauty, Order, Disposition, Decorum, Oeconomy.

Solidity depends upon the goodness of the Foundation, choice of Materials, and the right use
of them; which ought to be with a due order, disposition and convenient Proportion of all Parts
together, and of one in respect of another.

Convenience likewise consists in the ordering and disposition, which is so good that nothing
hinders the use of any part of the Edifice.

Beauty consists in the excellent and agreeable form, and the just proportion of all its parts.

Order is that which makes, that all the parts of an Edifice have a convenient bigness, whether
we consider them apart or with Relation to the whole.

Disposition is the orderly Ranging and agreeable Union of all the parts that compose the Work;
so that as Order respects the Greatness, Disposition respects Form and Situation, which are
Two Things compriz'd under the word Quality, which Vitruvius attributes to Disposition, and
opposes to Quantity, which appertains to Order. There are three ways by which the Architect
may take a view beforehand of the Fabrick he is to build, viz. First, Ichnography, which is
the Geometrical Plan; Orthography, which is the Geometrical Elevation, and Scenography, which
is Perspective Elevation.

Proportion, which is also call'd Eurythmy, is that which makes the Union of all parts of the
Work, and which renders the Prospect agreeable, when the Height answers the Breadth, and the
Breadth the Length; every one having its just measure. It is defin'd, the Relation that all
the Work has with its Parts, and which every one of them has separately to the Idea of the
whole, according to the measure of any Part. For as in Humane Bodies there is a Relation between
the Foot, Hand, Finger and other Parts; so amongst Works that are Perfect, from any particular
Part, we may make a certain Judgment of the Greatness of the whole Work: For Example, the Diameter
of a Pillar, or the Length of a Triglyph, creates in us a right Judgment of the Greatness of
the whole Temple.

And here we must remark, that to express the Relation that many things have one to another,
as to their Greatness or different Number of Parts, Vitruvius indifferently makes use of three
words, which are Proportion, Eurythmy and Symmetry. But we have thought it proper only to make
use of the word Proportion, because Eurythmy is a Greek word, which signifies nothing else
but Proportion; and Symmetry, although a word commonly used, does not signifie in the Vulgar
Languages what Vitruvius understands by Proportion; for he understands by Proportion, a Relation
according to Reason; and Symmetry, in the vulgar Languages, signifies only, a Relation of Parity
and Equality. For the word Simmetria signifies in Latin and Greek Relation only. As for Example,
as the Relation that Windows of Eight Foot high, have with other Windows of Six Foot, when
the one are Four Foot broad, and the other Three: and Symmetry, in the Vulgar Languages, signifies
the Relation, for Example, That Windows have one to another, when they are all of an equal
height and equal breadth; and that their Number and Distances are equal to the Right and the
Left; so that if the distances be unequal of one side, the like inequality is to be found in
the other.

Decorum or Decency, is that which makes the Aspect of the Fabrick so correct, that there is
nothing that is not approv'd of, and founded upon some Authority. It teaches us to have regard
to three things, which are, Design, Custom and Nature.

The Regard to Design makes us chuse for Example, other Dispositions and Propertions for a Palace
than for a Church.

The Respect we have to Custom, is the Reason, for Example, That the Porches and Entries of
Houses are adorned, when the Inner Parts are Rich and Magnificent.

The Regard we have to the Nature of Places, makes us chuse different Prospects for different
Parts of the Fabrick, to make them the wholsomer and the more convenient: For Example, the
Bed-Chambers and the Libraries are exposed to the Morning Sun; the Winter Apartments, to the
West; the Closets or Pictures and other Curiosities, which should always have equal Light,
to the North.

Oeconomy teaches the Architect to have regard to the Expences that are to be made, and to the
Quality of the Materials, near the Places where he Builds, and to take his Measures rightly
for the Order and Disposition; viz. to give the Fabrick a convenient Form and Magnitude.

These Eight Parts, as we have said, have a Relation to the Three first, viz. Solidity, Convenience,
Beauty, which suppose, Order, Disposition, Proportion, Decorum and Oeconomy. This is the reason
that we divide this first Part only into Three Chapters; the first is of the Solidity; the
second of the Convenience; the third of the Beauty of the Fabrick.

CHAP. II.

  Of the Solidity of Buildings.

ARTICLE I.

  Of the Choice of Materials.

The Materials of which Vitruvius speaks are, Stone, Brick, Wood, Lime, and Sand.

All the Stones are not of one sort, for some are soft, some harder, and some extreamly hard.

Those that are not hard are easily cut, and are good for the Inner Parts of the Buildings,
where they are cover'd from Rain and Frost which brings them to Powder, and if they be made
use of in Buildings near the Sea, the Salt Particles of the Air and Heat destroys them.

Those that are indifferently hard, are fit to bear Weight; but there are some sorts of them,
that easily crack with the heat of the Fire.

There is likewise another sort of Stone, which is a kind of Free-Stone; some are Red, some
Black, and some White, which are as easily cut with a Saw as Wood.

The best Bricks are those which are only dry'd and not baked in the Fire; but there are many
Years required to dry them well: and for this Reason, at Utica, a City of Africa, they made
a Law, That none should make use of Bricks which had not been made five Years: For these sort
of Bricks, so dry'd, had their Pores so close in their Superficies, that they would swim upon
Water like a Pumice-Stone; and they had a particular Lightness, which made them very fit for
all sorts of Buildings.

The Earth of which these Bricks were usually made was very Fat, and a sort of White Chalky
Clay without Gravel or Sand, which made them Lighter and more Durable; they mixed Straw with
them to make them better bound and firmer.

The Woods which were made use of in all Buildings, are Oak, Poplar, Beech, Elm, Cypress, Firr;
but some of them are not so proper for Building as others.

The Firr, because it has great plenty of Air, and Fire, and but little Earth and Water, is
light, and does not easily bend; but is very subject to Worms and Fire.

The Oak which is more Earthy lasts for ever under Ground; but above Ground is apt to cleave.

The Beech which has little of Earthiness, Humidity and Fire, but great plenty of Air, is not
very solid and easily breaks.

The Poplar and the Linden Trees are only good for light Work, they are easily cut and so finest
for Carving.

The Alder is good to make Piles of in Marshy Places.

The Elm and the Ash have this property, that they do not easily cleave, and that they are pliable.

The Yoke-Elm is likewise pliable, and yet very strong; this is the Reason that they made Yokes
for their Oxen of them in Old Time.

The Pine and the Cypress have this defect, that they easily bend under any Weight, because
of their great Humidity; but they have this Advantage, that their Humidity does not engender
Worms, because of their Bitterness which kills them.

The Juniper and the Cedar have the same Vertue of hindering Corruption: the Juniper by its
Gum, which is call'd Sandarax, and the Cedar by its Oil call'd Cedrium.

The Larch-Tree has likewise the same Vertue, but its particular property is, that it will not
burn. There is a remarkable Story of this Wood, which is, That when Julius Cæsar besieg'd a
Castle at the Foot of the Alpes, there was a Tower built of this Wood, which prov'd the Principal
Defence of the Place. He thought to take it easily by making a great Fire at the Foot of the
Tower, but for all this great Fire, the Tower did not suffer the least Damage.

The Olive-Tree is likewise very serviceable, if it be put in the Foundations, and Walls of
Cities; for after it has been singed a little, and interlaced among the Stones, it lasts for
ever, and is out of all danger of Corruption.

Lime is made of White Stones or Flinty Pebbles, the harder the Stones are which 'tis made of,
the better it is for Building. That which is made of soft Spongy Stones, is proper for Plastring.

There are five sorts of Sand; viz. Sand that is dug out of the Ground, River Sand, Gravel,
Sea-Sand, and Pozzolana, which is a Sand peculiar to some Parts of Italy.

The best Sand is that which being rubb'd between the Hands makes a little Noise, which that
Sand does not, which is Earthy, because it is not rough. Another Mark of good Sand is, that
when 'tis put upon any Thing that is White and shak'd off, it leaves no Mark behind.

The Sand which is dug out of the Earth has all these Qualities, and is esteem'd the best. Vitruvius
makes four sorts of it; viz. White, Black, Red, and Bright like a Carbuncle.

If it happen that there be no good Place to dig Sand in, we may make use of Sea-Sand, or River-Sand,
which is likewise better for Plastering than the Sand which is digged, which is excellent for
Building, because it drys quickly. Gravel likewise is very good, provided the grosser Parts
be taken away. Sea-Sand is worst of all, because 'tis long adrying; and for this Reason, where
'tis made use of in Building, they are forc'd to desist sometimes till it dry.

The Sand which is found near Naples call'd Pozzolana is so proper to make good Mortar, if it
be mixed with Lime, that not only in the ordinary Fabricks, but even in the very bottom of
the Sea it grows into a wonderful hard Body. In Old Times they made use of it for Moles or
Ports of the Sea, for after having made with Piles and Boards a Partition, they fill'd up the
whole Compass of the Partition with this Mortar, which dry'd of it self in the middle of the
Water and became a solid Body.

ART. II.

  Of the Use of the Materials.

The first thing we should have a Care of before we begin to build, is, to have the Stones dug
out of the Quarry before they be used, and to expose them in some open Place, to the end that
those which are endamaged by the Air, during this Time, may be put in the Foundation, and those
that prove Durable and Good may be kept for the Walls above Ground.

We must likewise have a great care of the Wood which we make use of; That it be cut in a seasonable
Time, which is in Autumn and Winter; for then it is not full of that superfluous Humidity which
weakened it in dilating its Fibers, but it is firm and well closed by the Cold. This is so
true, that the Wood of Trees which grow and become very great in a little Time, by reason of
their great Humidity, is tender and apt to break, and very unfit for Building. Which Experience
shows us particularly in those Firrs call'd Supernates, which grow in Italy, on that side the
Apennine, towards the Adriatick-Sea, for they are great and beautiful, but their Wood is not
good for Building; whereas those on the other side of the Mountain, which are exposed to Heat
and Dryness, call'd Infernates, are very good for Building.

This superfluous Humidity endamages Trees so much, that we are sometimes constrain'd to make
a hole at the foot of the Tree and let it run out, which is the occasion of the Practice which
is observ'd in cutting of Wood for Building, to Tap that Tree at the Foot, cutting not only
the Bark, but even some part of the Wood it self, and so leave it for some time before it be
Fell'd.

[Sidenote: Lib. 1. Chap. 5.]

It is likewise easie to judge of what great Importance the draining of this superfluous Humidity
is for strengthning the Timber, and hindring Corruption, from this, That those Piles which
are interlaced among the Stones in the Walls and Fortifications of Towns endure for ever without
Corrupting, when they have been burnt a little on the outside.

[Sidenote: Lib. 1. Chap. 11.]

[Sidenote: Lib. 2. Chap. 8.]

Bricks ought not to be made use of but in very thick Walls; for this reason they did not build
with Brick in Rome, for to save Ground; they were not permitted to make the Walls of their
Houses above a Foot and a Half thick, which Makes about 16 Inches and a half of our Foot.

They likewise never made the top of their Walls with Brick; for the Brick of the Ancients not
being baked, this part of the Wall would have been easily endamaged; for this reason they built
it with Tiles, a foot and a half high, comprizing the Cornish or Entablature which was made
likewise of Tiles to cast off the Water and defend the rest of the Wall. They likewise chose
for these Cornishes the best Tiles, viz. those that had been long on the top of the Houses,
and given sufficient Proof that they were well baked and made of good Matter.

The Walling with Brick was so much esteem'd among the Ancients, that all their Fabricks, as
well publick as private, and their most beautiful Palaces were built with them. But that which
principally made this sort of Building be esteem'd, was its great Duration; for when expert
Architects were called to make an Estimate of Buildings, they always deducted an 80th. part
of what they judged the Building cost for every Year that the Wall had been standing, for they
supposed that the Walls could not ordinarily endure more than Fourscore Years; but when they
valued Buildings of Brick, they always valued them at what they cost at first, supposing them
to be of an Eternal Duration.

To make the right use of Lime and Sand, and to make good Mortar of them, it is necessary that
the Lime be first well Quench'd, and that it be kept a long time, to the end that if there
be any Piece of it that is not well burnt in the Kiln, it may, being extinguished at leasure,
soften as well as the rest. This is of Great Importance particularly in Plastering and Works
of Stuck, which is a Composition of Marble finely beaten with Lime. For if any little Pieces
remain that are not well baked, when they come to be made use of, they crack and break the Work.

[Sidenote: Lib. 7. Chap. 3.]

The way to know whether the Lime be well Quench'd, is thus: You may thrust a Chip of Wood into
it or a Knife, and if the Chip of Wood meet with any Stones, or that the Knife comes out clean
without any sticking to it, it signifies the Lime was not will burnt; for when 'tis well Quench'd,
it is Fat and will stick to the Knife; but the quite contrary happens to Mortar, for it is
neither well prepar'd, nor well mix'd, if it stick to the Trowel.

[Sidenote: Lib. 2. Chap. 4.]

For to make the right use of Sand, you must first consider what it is to be employ'd in; for
if it be Mortar for Plastring, you must not make use of Sand that was lately dug out, for it
drys the Mortar too fast, which cracks the Plastring; but quite contrary if it be to be employ'd
in Masonry, it must not have been a long time expos'd to the Air, for the Sun and the Moon
do so alter it, that the Rain dissolves it, and turns it almost all into Earth.

[Sidenote: Lib. 2. Chap. 5.]

The Proportion that Sand and Lime ought to have to make good Mortar, should be three parts
of Sand that is dug, or two parts of River-Sand or Sea-Sand against one of Lime, and 'twill
be yet much better, if you add to the Sand of the Sea and the River a third part of Tiles well
beaten.

[Sidenote: Lib. 7. Chap. 3.]

One of the Principal Things that is to be observ'd in making Mortar, is, to mix it well. The
Grecian Workmen were so careful of this, that they Tewed it a great while, putting Ten Men
to every Vessel wherein they wrought it, which gave so great a hardness to the Mortar, that
when any big pieces of Plaster fell off the Old Walls, they made Tables of it.

ART. III.

  Of the Foundation.

[Sidenote: Lib. 6. Chap. 11.]

The Foundation is the most important part of the Fabrick; for the Faults committed in it cannot
be so easily remedied as in other parts.

[Sidenote: Lib. 1. Chap. 5.]

To lay the Foundation well, you must dig till you come to solid Ground, and even into the solid
as much as is necessary to support the Weight of the Walls; it must be larger below than above
the Superficies of the Earth.

[Sidenote: Lib. 3. Chap. 3.]

When you have found firm Earth to make it more solid, you must beat it with a Rammer; but if
you cannot arrive at solid Earth, but find it still soft and spungy, you must dig as far as
you can, and drive in Piles of Alder, Olive, or Oak, a little singed, near together, and fill
up the void Places between the Piles with Coal.

[Sidenote: Lib. 1. Chap. 5.]

In short, you must make all Masonry with the most solid Stone that can be found for this use.

To make the Binding of the Stones the stronger in the Foundation of great Fabricks, you must
put Piles of Olive a little singed and placed very thick from one Parement or Course to another,
which serves, as it were, for Keys and Braces; for this Wood so prepar'd, is not subject to
Worms, and will endure for ever, either in the Earth or in the Water, without the least Damage.

[Sidenote: Lib. 6. Chap. 11.]

When you would make Cellars, the Foundations must be much larger; for the Wall that is to support
the Earth requires a greater thickness to resist the strong Efforts that the Earth makes against
it in Winter, at which time it swells and becomes more heavy by reason of the Water it has
drunk up.

ART. IV.

  Of the Walls.

[Sidenote: Lib. 4. Chap. 2.]

The right ordering of Stones joined with Mortar, which is call'd Masonry, is sevenfold; there
are three of them which are of hewed Stone; viz. that which is in Form of a Net, that which
is in Binding, that which is call'd the Greek Masonry. There are likewise three sorts of Masonry
of unhewed Stones; viz. that which is of an equal Course; and that which is of an unequal,
and that which is fill'd up in the middle; the seventh is compounded of all the rest.

The Net-Masonry is that which is made of Stones perfectly squar'd in their Courses, and are
laid so, that the Joints go obliquely, and the Diagonals are the one Perpendicular, and the
other Level. This is the most pleasing Masonry to the Sight, but it is apt to crack. See the
Figure A. Table I.

The Masonry call'd the Bound-Masonry, is that, as Vitruvius explains it, in which the Stones
are plac'd one upon another like Tiles; that is to say, where the Joints of the Beds are Level,
and the Mounters are Perpendicular; so that the Joint that mounts and separates two Stones
falls directly upon the middle of the Stone which is below.

Some Authors call this sort of Masonry Incertain, but they are mistaken; for they read Incerta
instead ofInserta; it is not so Beautiful as the Net-work, but it is more solid and durable.
See the Figure BB. Table I.

The Masonry which Vitruvius says is particular to the Greeks, is that, where after we have
laid two Stones, each of which make a Parement or Course, another is laid at the end, which
makes two Parements or Courses, and all the Building through observe this Order. This may be
call'd Double-Binding; for the Binding is not only of Stones of the same Course one with another,
but likewise of one Course with another Course. See Figure CC. Table I.

The manner of Walling by unequal Courses call'd Isodomum by the Ancients, differs in nothing
from the Masonry call'd Bound-Masonry, but only in this, that the Stones are not hewed. See
Figure D. Table I.

The other manner by unequal Courses call'd Pseudisodomum is also made of unhewed Stone, and
laid in Bound-Work, but they are not of the same thickness, and there is no equality observ'd,
but only in the several Courses, the Courses themselves being unequal one to another. See Figure
A. Table I.

The Masonry which is fill'd up in the middle, call'd by the Ancients Emplecton, is likewise
made of unhewed Stone and by Courses, but the Stones are only set in order as to the Parements
or Courses, but the middle is fill'd up with Stones thrown in carelesly among the Mortar. See
Fig. FF, GG, H. Table I.

Among all these sorts of Masonry, that will always be best which is made of Stones of an indifferent
size, rather lesser than greater; to the end that the Mortar penetrating them in more parts
may bind them faster, and the strength of the Mortar does not so soon decay. For we see that
the Mortar which is laid in the Joints or Seams of the greater Stones with time decays and
turns to Dust, which never happens to the most Ancient Fabricks which have been built of little
Stones. From thence we may conclude, that it is ill Husbandry to be sparing of Mortar.

For this reason Vitruvius proposes another sort of Masonry, which may be call'd the Compound
Masonry, for it is all the former together, of Stones hewed and unhewed, and fastned together
with Cramp-Irons. The Structure is as follows: The Courses being made of hew'd Stone, the middle
place which was left void is fill'd up with Mortar and Pebbles thrown in together; after this
they bind the Stones of one Parement or Course to those of another with Cramp-Irons fasten'd
with melted Lead. This is done to the end, that the abundance of Mortar which is in the middle
may furnish and communicate a sufficient Humidity to the Joints of the great Stones which make
the Parements. See the Figure K. Table I.

There are many Precautions to be given to make the Masonry more firm and durable, and these
Precautions are common to all the different sorts of Masonry.

[Sidenote: Lib. 1. Chap. 5.]

