Revision of a constitution through the popular vote is common. Since 1814, there have been
sixty revisions by the people of cantonal constitutions alone. Geneva asks its citizens every
fifteen years if they wish to revise their organic law, thus twice in a generation practically
determining whether they are in this respect content. The Federal constitution may be revised
at any time. Fifty thousand voters petitioning for it, or the Federal Assembly (congress) demanding
it, the question is submitted to the country. If the vote is in the affirmative, the Council
of States (the senate) and the National Council (the house) are both dissolved. An election
of these bodies takes place at once; the Assembly, fresh from the people, then makes the required
revision and submits the revised constitution to the country. To stand, it must be supported
by a majority of the voters and a majority of the twenty-two cantons.

Summary.

To sum up: In Switzerland, in this generation, direct legislation has in many respects been
established for the federal government, while in so large a canton as Zurich, with nearly 340,000
inhabitants, it has also been made applicable to every proposed cantonal law, decree, and order,--the
citizens of that canton themselves disposing by vote of all questions of taxation, public finance,
executive acts, state employment, corporation grants, public works, and similar operations
of government commonly, even in republican states, left to legislators and other officials.
In every canton having the Initiative and the obligatory Referendum, all power has been stripped
from the officials except that of a stewardship which is continually and minutely supervised
and controlled by the voters. Moreover, it is possible that yet a few years and the affairs
not only of every canton of Switzerland but of the Confederation itself will thus be taken
in hand at every step.

       *       *       *       *       *

Here, then, is evidence incontrovertible that pure democracy, through direct legislation by
the citizenship, is practicable--more, is now practiced--in large communities. Next as to its
effects, proven and probable.

THE PUBLIC STEWARDSHIP OF SWITZERLAND.

If it be conceived that the fundamental principles of a free society are these: That the bond
uniting the citizens should be that of contract; that rights, including those in natural resources,
should be equal, and that each producer should retain the full product of his toil, it must
be conceded on examination that toward this ideal Switzerland has made further advances than
any other country, despite notable points in exception and the imperfect form of its federal
Initiative and Referendum. Before particulars are entered into, some general observations on
this head may be made.

The Political Status in Switzerland.

An impressive fact in Swiss politics to-day is its peace. Especially is this true of the contents
and tone of the press. In Italy and Austria, on the south and east, the newspapers are comparatively
few, mostly feeble, and in general subservient to party or government; in Germany, on the north,
where State Socialism is strong, the radical press is at times turbulent and the government
journals reflect the despotism they uphold; in France, on the west and southwest, the public
writers are ever busy over the successive unstable central administrations at Paris, which
exercise a bureaucratic direction of every commune in the land. In all these countries, men
rather than measures are the objects of discussion, an immediate important campaign question
inevitably being whether, when once in office, candidates may make good their ante-election
promises. Thus, on all sides, over the border from Switzerland, political turmoil, with its
rancor, personalities, false reports, hatreds, and corruptions, is endless. But in Switzerland,
debate uniformly bears not on men but on measures. The reasons are plain. Where the veto is
possessed by the people, in vain may rogues go to the legislature. With few or no party spoils,
attention to public business, and not to patronage or private privilege, is profitable to office
holders as well as to the political press.

In the number of newspapers proportionate to population, Switzerland stands with the United
States at the head of the statistical list for the world. In their general character, Swiss
political journals are higher than American. They are little tempted to knife reputations,
to start false campaign issues, to inflame partisan feeling; for every prospective cantonal
measure undergoes sober popular discussion the year round, with the certain vote of the citizenship
in view in the cantons having the Landsgemeinde or the obligatory Referendum, and a possible
vote in most of the other cantons, while federal measures also may be met with the federal
optional Referendum.

The purity and peacefulness of Swiss press and politics are due to the national development
of today as expressed in appropriate institutions. Of these institutions the most effective,
the fundamental, is direct legislation, accompanied as it is with general education. In education
the Swiss are preëminent among nations. Illiteracy is at a lower percentage than in any other
country; primary instruction is free and compulsory in all the cantons; and that the higher
education is general is shown in the four universities, employing three hundred instructors.

An enlightened people, employing the ballot freely, directly, and in consequence effectively--this
is the true sovereign governing power in Switzerland. As to what, in general terms, have been
the effects of this power on the public welfare, as to how the Swiss themselves feel toward
their government, and as to what are the opinions of foreign observers on the recent changes
through the Initiative and Referendum, some testimony may at this point be offered.

In the present year, Mr. W.D. McCrackan has published in the "Arena" of Boston his observations
of Swiss politics. He found, he says, the effects of the Referendum to be admirable. Jobbery
and extravagance are unknown, and politics, as there is no money in it, has ceased to be a
trade. The men elected to office are taken from the ranks of the citizens, and are chosen because
of their fitness for the work. The people take an intelligent interest in every kind of local
and federal legislation, and have a full sense of their political responsibility. The mass
of useless or evil laws which legislatures in other countries are constantly passing with little
consideration, and which have constantly to be repealed, are in Switzerland not passed at all.

In a study of the direct legislation of Switzerland, the "Westminster Review," February, 1888,
passed this opinion: "The bulk of the people move more slowly than their representatives, are
more cautious in adopting new and trying legislative experiments, and have a tendency to reject
propositions submitted to them for the first time." Further: "The issue which is presented
to the sovereign people is invariably and necessarily reduced to its simplest expression, and
so placed before them as to be capable of an affirmative or negative answer. In practice, therefore,
the discussion of details is left to the representative assemblies, while the people express
approval or disapproval of the general principle or policy embraced in the proposed measure.
Public attention being confined to the issue, leaders are nothing. The collective wisdom judges
of merits."

A.V. Dicey, the critic of constitutions, writes in the "Nation," October 8, 1885: "The Referendum
must be considered, on the whole, a conservative arrangement. It tends at once to hinder rapid
change and also to get rid of that inflexibility or immutability which, in the eyes of Englishmen
at least, is a defect in the constitution of the United States."

A Swiss radical has written me as follows: "The development given to education during the last
quarter of a century will have without doubt as a consequence an improved judgment on the part
of a large number of electors. The press also has a rôle more preponderant than formerly. Everybody
reads. Certainly the ruling classes profit largely by the power of the printing press, but
with the electors who have received some instruction the capitalist newspapers are taken with
due allowance for their sincerity. Their opinion is not accepted without inquiry. We see a
rapid development of ideas, if not completely new, at least renewed and more widespread. More
or less radical reviews and periodicals, in large number, are not without influence, and their
appearance proves that great changes are imminent."

Professor Dicey has contrasted the Referendum with the plébiscite: "The Referendum looks at
first sight like a French plébiscite, but no two institutions can be marked by more essential
differences. The plébiscite is a revolutionary or at least abnormal proceeding. It is not preceded
by debate. The form and nature of the questions to be submitted to the nation are chosen and
settled by the men in power, and Frenchmen are asked whether they will or will not accept a
given policy. Rarely, indeed, when it has been taken, has the voting itself been full or fair.
Deliberation and discussion are the requisite conditions for rational decision. Where effective
opposition is an impossibility, nominal assent is an unmeaning compliment. These essential
characteristics, the lack of which deprives a French plébiscite, of all moral significance,
are the undoubted properties of the Swiss Referendum."

In the "Revue des Deux Mondes," Paris, August, 1891, Louis Wuarin, an interested observer of
Swiss politics for many years, writes: "A people may indicate its will, not from a distance,
but near at hand, always superintending the work of its agents, watching them, stopping them
if there is reason for so doing, constraining them, in a word, to carry out the people's will
in both legislative and administrative affairs. In this form of government the representative
system is reduced to a minimum. The deliberative bodies resemble simple committees charged
with preparing work for an elected assembly, and here the elected assembly is replaced by the
people. This sovereign action in person in the transaction of public business may extend more
or less widely; it may be limited to the State, or it may be extended to the province also,
and even to the town. To whatever extent this supervision of the people may go, one thing may
certainly be expected, which is that the supervision will become closer and closer as time
goes on. It never has been known that citizens gave up willingly and deliberately rights acquired,
and the natural tendency of citizens is to increase their privileges. Switzerland is an example
of this type of democratic government.... There is some reason for regarding parliamentary
government--at least under its classic and orthodox form of rivalry between two parties, who
watch each other closely, in order to profit by the faults of their adversaries, who dispute
with each other for power without the interests of the country, in the ardor of the encounter,
being always considered--as a transitory form in the evolution of democracy."

The spirit of the Swiss law and its relation to the liberty of the individual are shown in
passages of the cantonal and federal constitutions. That of Uri declares: "Whatever the Landsgemeinde,
within the limits of its competence, ordains, is law of the land, and as such shall be obeyed,"
but: "The guiding principle of the Landsgemeinde shall be justice and the welfare of the fatherland,
not willfulness nor the power of the strongest." That of Zurich: "The people exercise the lawmaking
power, with the assistance of the state legislature." That of the Confederation: "All the Swiss
people are equal before the law. There are in Switzerland no subjects, nor privileges of place,
birth, persons, or families."

In these general notes and quotations is sketched in broad lines the political environment
of the Swiss citizen of to-day. The social mind with which he stands in contact is politically
developed, is bent on justice, is accustomed to look for safe results from the people's laws,
is at present more than ever inclined to trust direct legislation, and, on the whole, is in
a state of calmness, soberness, tolerance, and political self-discipline.

The machinery of public stewardship, subject to popular guidance, may now be traced, beginning
with the most simple form.

Organization of the Commune.

The common necessities of a Swiss neighborhood, such as establishing and maintaining local
roads, police, and schools, and administering its common wealth, bring its citizens together
in democratic assemblages. These are of different forms.

One form of such assemblage, the basis of the superstructure of government, is the political
communal meeting. "In it take place the elections, federal, state, and local; it is the local
unit of state government and the residuary legatee of all powers not granted to other authorities.
Its procedure is ample and highly democratic. It meets either at the call of an executive council
of its own election, or in pursuance of adjournment, and, as a rule, on a Sunday or holiday.
Its presiding officer is sometimes the maire, sometimes a special chairman. Care is taken that
only voters shall sit in the body of the assembly, it being a rule in Zurich that the register
of citizens shall lie on the desk for inspection. Tellers are appointed by vote and must be
persons who do not belong to the village council, since that is the local cabinet which proposes
measures for consideration. Any member of the assembly may offer motions or amendments, but
usually they are brought forward by the town council, or at least referred to that body before
being voted upon."[F] The officials of the commune chosen in the communal meeting, are one
chief executive (who in French communes usually has two assistants), a communal council, which
legislates on the lesser matters coming up between communal meetings, and such minor officials
as are not left to the choice of the council.

[Footnote F: Vincent.]

A second form of neighborhood assemblage is one composed only of those citizens who have rights
in the communal corporate domains and funds, these rights being either inherited or acquired
(sometimes by purchase) after a term of purely political citizenship.

A third form is the parish meeting, at which gather the members of the same faith in the commune,
or of even a smaller church district. The Protestant, the Catholic, and the Jewish are recognized
as State religions--the Protestant alone in some cantons, the Catholic in others, both in several,
and both with the Jewish in others.

A fourth form of local assembly is that of the school district, usually a subdivision of a
commune. It elects a board of education, votes taxes to defray school expenses, supervises
educational matters, and in some districts elects teachers.

Dividing the commune thus into voting groups, each with its appropriate purpose, makes for
justice. He who has a share in the communal public wealth (forests, pastoral and agricultural
lands, and perhaps funds), is not endangered in this property through the votes of non-participant
newcomers. Nor are educational affairs mixed with general politics. And, though State and religion
are not yet severed, each form of belief is largely left to itself; in some cantons provision
is made that a citizen's taxes shall not go toward the support of a religion to which he is
opposed.

Organization of Canton and Confederation.

In no canton in Switzerland is there more than one legislative body: in none is there a senate.
The cities of Switzerland have no mayor, the cantons have no governor, and, if the title be
used in the American sense, the republic has no President. Instead of the usual single executive
head, the Swiss employ an executive council. Hence, in every canton a deadlock in legislation
is impossible, the way is open for all law demanded by a majority, and neither in canton nor
Confederation is one-man power known.

The cantonal legislature is the Grand Council. "In the Landsgemeinde cantons and those having
the obligatory Referendum, it is little more than a supervisory committee, preparing measures
for the vote of the citizens and acting as a check on the cantonal executive council. In the
remaining cantons (those having the optional Referendum), the legislature has the power to
spend money below a specified limit; to enact laws of specified kinds, usually not of general
application; and to elect the more important officials, the amount of discretion [in the different
cantons] rising gradually till the complete representative government is reached"[G] in Freiburg,
which resembles one of our states. Though in several cantons the Grand Council meets every
two months for a few days' session, in most of the cantons it meets twice a year. The pay of
members ranges from sixty cents to $1.20 per day. The legislative bodies are large; the ratio
in five cantons is one legislator to every 1,000 inhabitants; in twelve it ranges from one
to 187 up to one to 800, and in the remaining five from one to 1,000 to one to 2,000. The Landsgemeinde
cantons usually have fifty to sixty members; Geneva, with 20,000 voters, has a hundred.

[Footnote G: Vincent.]

In six of the twenty-two cantons, if a certain number of voters petition for it, the question
must be submitted to the people whether or not the legislature shall be recalled and a new
one elected.

The formation of the Swiss Federal Assembly (congress), established in 1848, was influenced
by the make-up of the American congress. The lower house is elected by districts, as in the
United States, the basis of representation being one member to 20,000 inhabitants, and the
number of members 147. The term for this house is three years; the pay, four dollars a day,
during session, and mileage. The upper house, the Council of States (senate), the only body
of the kind in Switzerland, is composed of two members from each canton. Cantonal law governing
their election, the tenure of their office is not the same: in some cantons they are elected
by the people, in others by the legislature; their pay varies; their term of office ranges
from one to three years. Their brief terms and the fact that their more important functions,
such as the election of the federal executive council, take place in joint session with the
second chamber, render the members of the "upper" house of less weight in national affairs
than those of the "lower."

Swiss Executives.

The executive councils of the cities, the cantons, and the Confederation are all of one form.
They are committees, composed of members of equal rank. The number of members varies. Of cantonal
executive councilors, there are seven in eleven of the cantons, three, five, and nine in others,
and eleven in one. In addition to carrying out the law, the executive council usually assists
somewhat in legislation, the members not only introducing but speaking upon measures in the
legislative body with which they are associated, without, however, having a vote. In about
half the cantons, the cantonal executive councils are elected by the people; in the rest by
the legislative body.

Types of the executive councils are those of Geneva, city and canton. The city executive council
is composed of five members, elected by the people for four years. The salary of its president
is $800 a year; that of the other four members, $600. The cantonal executive has seven members;
the salaries are: the president, $1,200; the rest, $1,000. In both city and cantonal councils
each member is the head of an administrative department. The cantonal executive council has
the power to suspend the deliberations of the city executive council and those of the communal
councils whenever in its judgment these bodies transcend their legal powers or refuse to conform
to the law. In case of such suspension, a meeting of the cantonal Grand Council (the legislature)
must be called within a week, and if it approves of the action of the cantonal executive, the
council suspended is dissolved, and an election for another must be had within a month, the
members of the body dissolved not being immediately eligible for re-election. The cantonal
executive council may also revoke the commissions of communal executives (maires and adjoints),
who then cannot immediately be re-elected. Check to the extensive powers of the cantonal executive
council lies in the fact that its members are elected directly by the people and hold office
for only two years. But in cantons having the obligatory Referendum, Geneva's methods, however
advanced in the eyes of American republicans, are not regarded as strictly democratic.

The Federal Executive Council.

The Swiss nation has never placed one man at its head. Prior to 1848, executive as well as
legislative powers were vested in the one house of the Diet. Under the constitution adopted
in that year, with which the Switzerland as now organized really began, the present form of
the executive was established.

This executive is the Federal Council, a board of seven members, whose term is three years,
and who are elected in joint session by the two houses of the Federal Assembly (congress).
The presiding officer of the council, chosen as such by the Federal Assembly, is elected for
one year. He cannot be his own successor. While he is nominally President of the Confederation,
Swiss treatises on the subject uniformly emphasize the fact that he is actually no more than
chairman of the executive council. He is but "first among his equals" (primus inter pares).
His prerogatives--thus to describe whatever powers fall within his duties--are no greater than
those pertaining to the rest of the board. Unlike the President of the United States, he has
no rank in the army, no power of veto, no influence with the judiciary; he cannot appoint military
commanders, or independently name any officials whatever; he cannot enforce a policy, or declare
war, or make peace, or conclude a treaty. His name is not a by-word in his own country. Not
a few among the intelligent Swiss would pause a moment to recall his name if suddenly asked:
"Who is President this year?"

