"Pish. None of the stories were good," said her husband peevishly.

"Still a severe judge, Ridley?" enquired Mr. Vinrace.

"We bored you so that you left," said Ridley, speaking directly to his wife.

As this was quite true Helen did not attempt to deny it, and her next remark, "But didn't they
improve after we'd gone?" was unfortunate, for her husband answered with a droop of his shoulders,
"If possible they got worse."

The situation was now one of considerable discomfort for every one concerned, as was proved
by a long interval of constraint and silence. Mr. Pepper, indeed, created a diversion of a
kind by leaping on to his seat, both feet tucked under him, with the action of a spinster who
detects a mouse, as the draught struck at his ankles. Drawn up there, sucking at his cigar,
with his arms encircling his knees, he looked like the image of Buddha, and from this elevation
began a discourse, addressed to nobody, for nobody had called for it, upon the unplumbed depths
of ocean. He professed himself surprised to learn that although Mr. Vinrace possessed ten ships,
regularly plying between London and Buenos Aires, not one of them was bidden to investigate
the great white monsters of the lower waters.

"No, no," laughed Willoughby, "the monsters of the earth are too many for me!"

Rachel was heard to sigh, "Poor little goats!"

"If it weren't for the goats there'd be no music, my dear; music depends upon goats," said
her father rather sharply, and Mr. Pepper went on to describe the white, hairless, blind monsters
lying curled on the ridges of sand at the bottom of the sea, which would explode if you brought
them to the surface, their sides bursting asunder and scattering entrails to the winds when
released from pressure, with considerable detail and with such show of knowledge, that Ridley
was disgusted, and begged him to stop.

From all this Helen drew her own conclusions, which were gloomy enough. Pepper was a bore;
Rachel was an unlicked girl, no doubt prolific of confidences, the very first of which would
be: "You see, I don't get on with my father." Willoughby, as usual, loved his business and
built his Empire, and between them all she would be considerably bored. Being a woman of action,
however, she rose, and said that for her part she was going to bed. At the door she glanced
back instinctively at Rachel, expecting that as two of the same sex they would leave the room
together. Rachel rose, looked vaguely into Helen's face, and remarked with her slight stammer,
"I'm going out to t-t-triumph in the wind."

Mrs. Ambrose's worst suspicions were confirmed; she went down the passage lurching from side
to side, and fending off the wall now with her right arm, now with her left; at each lurch
she exclaimed emphatically, "Damn!"

Chapter II

Uncomfortable as the night, with its rocking movement, and salt smells, may have been, and
in one case undoubtedly was, for Mr. Pepper had insufficient clothes upon his bed, the breakfast
next morning wore a kind of beauty. The voyage had begun, and had begun happily with a soft
blue sky, and a calm sea. The sense of untapped resources, things to say as yet unsaid, made
the hour significant, so that in future years the entire journey perhaps would be represented
by this one scene, with the sound of sirens hooting in the river the night before, somehow
mixing in.

The table was cheerful with apples and bread and eggs. Helen handed Willoughby the butter,
and as she did so cast her eye on him and reflected, "And she married you, and she was happy,
I suppose."

She went off on a familiar train of thought, leading on to all kinds of well-known reflections,
from the old wonder, why Theresa had married Willoughby?

"Of course, one sees all that," she thought, meaning that one sees that he is big and burly,
and has a great booming voice, and a fist and a will of his own; "but--" here she slipped into
a fine analysis of him which is best represented by one word, "sentimental," by which she meant
that he was never simple and honest about his feelings. For example, he seldom spoke of the
dead, but kept anniversaries with singular pomp. She suspected him of nameless atrocities with
regard to his daughter, as indeed she had always suspected him of bullying his wife. Naturally
she fell to comparing her own fortunes with the fortunes of her friend, for Willoughby's wife
had been perhaps the one woman Helen called friend, and this comparison often made the staple
of their talk. Ridley was a scholar, and Willoughby was a man of business. Ridley was bringing
out the third volume of Pindar when Willoughby was launching his first ship. They built a new
factory the very year the commentary on Aristotle--was it?--appeared at the University Press.
"And Rachel," she looked at her, meaning, no doubt, to decide the argument, which was otherwise
too evenly balanced, by declaring that Rachel was not comparable to her own children. "She
really might be six years old," was all she said, however, this judgment referring to the smooth
unmarked outline of the girl's face, and not condemning her otherwise, for if Rachel were ever
to think, feel, laugh, or express herself, instead of dropping milk from a height as though
to see what kind of drops it made, she might be interesting though never exactly pretty. She
was like her mother, as the image in a pool on a still summer's day is like the vivid flushed
face that hangs over it.

Meanwhile Helen herself was under examination, though not from either of her victims. Mr. Pepper
considered her; and his meditations, carried on while he cut his toast into bars and neatly
buttered them, took him through a considerable stretch of autobiography. One of his penetrating
glances assured him that he was right last night in judging that Helen was beautiful. Blandly
he passed her the jam. She was talking nonsense, but not worse nonsense than people usually
do talk at breakfast, the cerebral circulation, as he knew to his cost, being apt to give trouble
at that hour. He went on saying "No" to her, on principle, for he never yielded to a woman
on account of her sex. And here, dropping his eyes to his plate, he became autobiographical.
He had not married himself for the sufficient reason that he had never met a woman who commanded
his respect. Condemned to pass the susceptible years of youth in a railway station in Bombay,
he had seen only coloured women, military women, official women; and his ideal was a woman
who could read Greek, if not Persian, was irreproachably fair in the face, and able to understand
the small things he let fall while undressing. As it was he had contracted habits of which
he was not in the least ashamed. Certain odd minutes every day went to learning things by heart;
he never took a ticket without noting the number; he devoted January to Petronius, February
to Catullus, March to the Etruscan vases perhaps; anyhow he had done good work in India, and
there was nothing to regret in his life except the fundamental defects which no wise man regrets,
when the present is still his. So concluding he looked up suddenly and smiled. Rachel caught
his eye.

"And now you've chewed something thirty-seven times, I suppose?" she thought, but said politely
aloud, "Are your legs troubling you to-day, Mr. Pepper?"

