They" worried about the impression she'd make. Must be
dead. Ah - and let slip another piercing scream.

- Child! I watched the grieving mother.

Dispierta.

You're dreaming or wishful thinking those are yours.

- Come here, Mommy, look at your mercy itself.

Saying it's attracted to her by the arm.

- See it!

Is not that the Blessed Virgin in a cloud of gold, in bare feet, supported on the wings of angels
infinite? She is. Look!

Here. There! See. Soar!

- Vision, my daughter. Never mind. Lie down and rest.

- Do you want your mercy I sleep, if I carried my daughter, the daughter
of my womb?

- But who takes it, my life?

- Who takes it?

Did not you see their mercy? The Blessed Virgin. He takes her in his arms. She must be dead.
Ah!

- She is not dead, I believe, will sign Josefa said weakly,
as on this item was no safer than the patient. Your girl is alive
and soon you'll see. These are dreams of you.

- Dreams, dreams, the
girl repeated, absently. Did I dream? Is not it a dream? But What
about my daughter? Where? Why have me removed? And that I worship
has lost its guilt, concluded with angry gesture and accent.

Josefa
had not the signal to replicate term, or not further irritate the
patient with a contradiction less than worthless, either because the
prosecution was direct and factual.

They made me a purse, too. It didn't have anything in it except the diamonds, but the women
we saw always seemed to carry them, and they thought it might be a sort of superstition or
ritual necessity, and that we'd better not take a chance on violating anything like that.

They made me spend a lot of time practicing with the car, because without a license, I couldn't
take a chance on getting into any trouble. I must have put in the better part of an hour starting
and stopping and backing that thing, and turning it around, and weaving through trees and rocks,
before they were satisfied.

Then, all of a sudden, there was nothing left to do except go. They made me repeat everything
one more time, about selling the diamonds, and how to register at the hotel, and what to do
if I got into trouble, and how to get in touch with them when I wanted to come back. Then they
said good-bye, and made me promise not to stay too long, and said they'd keep in touch the
best they could. And then I got in the car, and drove down the hill into town.

I knew they didn't want to let me go. They were worried, maybe even a little afraid I wouldn't
want to come back, but mostly worried that I might say something I shouldn't, or run into some
difficulties they hadn't anticipated. And outside of that, they knew they were going to miss
me. Yet they'd made up their minds to it; they planned it this way, and they felt it was the
right thing to do, and certainly they'd put an awful lot of thought and effort and preparation
into it.

If it hadn't been for that, I might have turned back at the last minute. Maybe they were worried;
but I was petrified. Only of course, I wanted to go, really. I couldn't help being curious,
and it never occurred to me then that I might miss them. It was the first time I'd ever been
out on my own, and they'd promised me, for years and years, as far back as I could remember,
that some day I'd go back, like this, by myself. But....

Going back, when you've been away long enough, is not so much a homecoming as a dream deja
vu. And for me, at least, the dream was not entirely a happy one. Everything I saw or heard
or touched had a sense of haunting familiarity, and yet of wrongness, too--almost a nightmare
feeling of the oppressively inevitable sequence of events, of faces and features and events
just not-quite-remembered and not-quite-known.

I was born in this place, but it was not my home. Its people were not mine; its ways were not
mine. All I knew of it was what I had been told, and what I had seen for myself these last
weeks of preparation, on the television screen. And the dream-feeling was intensified, at first,
by the fact that I did not know why I was there. I knew it had been planned this way, and I
had been told it was necessary to complete my education. Certainly I was aware of the great
effort that had been made to make the trip possible. But I did not yet understand just why.

Perhaps it was just that I had heard and watched and thought and dreamed too much about this
place, and now I was actually there, the reality was--not so much a disappointment as--just
sort of unreal. Different from what I knew when I didn't know.

The road unwound in a spreading spiral down the mountainside. Each time I came round, I could
see the city below, closer and larger, and less distinct. From the top, with the sunlight sparkling
on it, it had been a clean and gleaming pattern of human civilization. Halfway down, the symmetry
was lost, and the smudge and smoke began to show.

Halfway down, too, I began to pass places of business: restaurants and gas stations and handicraft
shops. I wanted to stop. For half an hour now I had been out on my own, and I still hadn't
seen any of the people, except the three who had passed me behind the wheels of their cars,
going up the road. One of the shops had a big sign on it, "COME IN AND LOOK AROUND." But I
kept going. One thing I understood was that it was absolutely necessary to have money, and
that I must stop nowhere, and attempt nothing, till after I had gotten some.

Farther down, the houses began coming closer together, and then the road stopped winding around,
and became almost straight. By that time, I was used to the car, and didn't have to think about
it much, and for a little while I really enjoyed myself. I could see into the houses sometimes,
through the windows, and at one, a woman was opening the door, coming out with a broom in her
hand. There were children playing in the yards. There were cars of all kinds parked around
the houses, and I saw dogs and a couple of horses, and once a whole flock of chickens.

But just where it was beginning to get really interesting, when I was coming into the little
town before the city, I had to stop watching it all, because there were too many other people
driving. That was when I began to understand all the fuss about licenses and tests and traffic
regulations. Watching it on television, it wasn't anything like being in the middle of it!

Of course, what I ran into there was really nothing; I found that out when I got into the city
itself. But just at first, it seemed pretty bad. And I still don't understand it. These people
are pretty bright mechanically. You'd think anybody who could build an automobile--let alone
an atom bomb--could drive one easily enough. Especially with a lifetime to learn in. Maybe
they just like to live dangerously....

It was a good thing, though, that I'd already started watching out for what the other drivers
were doing when I hit my first red light. That was something I'd overlooked entirely, watching
street scenes on the screen, and I guess they'd never noticed either. They must have taken
it for granted, the way I did, that people stopped their cars out of courtesy from time to
time to let the others go by. As it was, I stopped because the others did, and just happened
to notice that they began again when the light changed to green. It's really a very good system;
I don't see why they don't have them at all the intersections.

       *       *       *       *       *

From the first light, it was eight miles into the center of Colorado Springs. A sign on the
road said so, and I was irrationally pleased when the speedometer on the car confirmed it.
Proud, I suppose, that these natives from my own birth-place were such good gadgeteers. The
road was better after that, too, and the cars didn't dart in and out off the sidestreets the
way they had before. Who learn these bad habits? Why do not you tell me where?

- And Nemesia, the daughter of breast Pepper musician, is not being
on the street until ten o'clock?

Last night nothing less stumbled on the square of Christ lunita playing with a lot of guys.

- And do you want to compare with the daughter of breast Pimienta, a shabby Pardito, street, and
poor maid? When you least expect to bring that spirit-home on a table with the head split into
two pieces. The goat, daughter, always changes its spots. You are better born than she. Your
father is a white knight, and some day you must be rich and carriage ride. Who knows? Nemesia but
will never be more than what it is. Get married, if married, with a mulatto like her because his
father has more black than anything else. You, on the contrary, you can almost white aspire
to marry a white. Why not? God made us less. And you should know that white though poor, is for
husband, black or mulatto and the ox of gold. I speak from experience ... As I was married twice
... Do not remember things past. If you knew what happened a little girl, near your age, for
ignoring the advice of his grandmother, which predicted that if he
was to walk the streets late at night was going to happen very unfortunate
...

- Tell me about it, tell me, Chepilla repeated the girl with
such curiosity.

- Well, sir, a very dark night, the wind was blowing
strong, certainly was a day St. Bartholomew, which, as I've said before,
you release the devil from the three pm, Narcisa was the girl that
it was his name, sat singing softly in the stone doorway of his house
while his grandmother prayed cornered behind the window ... I remember
like it was now.

Well, sir, had touched souls in the Holy Spirit and the wind was
off the few lights, the streets were very dark, quiet and lonely,
as pitch.

Well as I was saying, the girl singing and the old praying the rosary, when being so, cate
you hear a violin playing there in return Angel. What is included the Narcisa? That was a thing
of dancing, and without asking her grandmother, oste unsaid or moste, he ran and never stopped
until the hill. So the old finished praying, believing that his granddaughter was in bed, as
was natural, closed the door.

- And on the street left the poor girl? Cecilia interrupted the counting samples of anxiety
and pity.

- Now you'll see. The old lady, before bed, because it was late and fell sleep, took a candle and
went to the cot to see if her granddaughter was sleeping.

Imagine what it would not stay that loved her so much, to find the bed empty. He ran to the front
door, opened it, shouted to her granddaughter: Narcisa!

Narcisa! But Narcisa not responding. Already seen, how he to answer the unhappy if the devil had
taken?

- How was that? embarrassed the girl asked.

- I'll tell you, Hump sign calmly continued, noting that it had the
desired effect his fairy stories.

Well, sir, Narcisa reaching the five corners of the Angel, he appeared a very handsome young
man who asked him where he was going at that hour of the night .-- A view a dance, "replied
the innocent .-- I'll take you," replied the young man and taking her by the arm took her to
the wall. Although it was very dark, Narcisa noticed that as they walk the unknown was put
tight, very tight, such as coal, that the hairs on your head as you straighten Lesnar, that the sizes
teeth sticking out laughing as pig boar, who was born two horns on their foreheads, who dragged
a furry tail on the ground, come on, it got heated by mouth as a bread oven. Narcisa then
screamed in horror and tried to escape, but the figure brown dug her nails into her throat when
she screamed, and loading with her, he climbed the tower of the Angel, who, as you've noticed,
has no cross, and from there threw in a very profound hole that opened and closed again swallowing
it in an instant. Well, that is, daughter, what happens to girls who do not heed the advice
of their elders.

Given here in order to sign his story and began Chepa admiration, fear of Cecilia, which he trembled
from head to toe and give teeth chattering, but constantly yawning, because most was the dream
that the fear with which, stumbling, he went to bed, which is what throw the wily old. Many
other stories like that did to the girl wandering; but we are sure that no other fruit brought
with them to fill your head with superstitions and daunted his spirit. That is not why he left
the girl to your liking, escaping sometimes through the window, taking advantage of the time
other than sent to the tavern immediate corner to beating from street to street and from square
to square, when after the incentive of a dance music, when the drums after the handover, when
the carriages the funeral, when, finally, the bog schoolboy who snatches the silver through baptism.

CHAPTER
IV

     Bring thought Full of
     impudence, and spill In clumsy thousand
     raucous voices That infects the wind
     And highly publicized what
     they love.

         

GONZALEZ CARVAJAL

Five or six years after the time of which we have undertaken in the previous two chapters, at the end
of September, had first the convent of the Merced to the series of trade fairs that until the
year 1832, used to solemnize the main events in Cuba religious dedicated to the patron saints
of the churches and convents sometimes overlapping novenarios with
circular Sacramento, introduced the cult of Cuba since the early years
of century by Bishop Espada y Landa.

The Novena, by the way say, nine days before the date on which the saint fell employer and lasted until
nine, which was completed two ninths row. Is said eighteen holidays, religious and secular,
who had more than grotesque and irreverent that devout and edifying.

At that time it was said High Mass with morning sermon and save raw singing night inside the
church with a procession through the streets of the holy day.

Outside the temple there was what was meant by fair in Cuba, which reduced the accumulation in
the plaza or in the neighboring streets, countless stalls, consistent on a table or board scissors,
covered with an awning and lighted by one or more lamps to burn fat, where it was sold, not
indeed any article of trade or commerce country or product of the
soil, hunting, bird or livestock, but only very low level trinkets
of value, jams of various kinds, cakes, play dough, hazelnuts, icing,
water and punch Loja milk.

That was not fair in the direct sense of the word.

But this was certainly not the most remarkable feature of our holiday pie. Had in show something that
was notable for too rude and insolent. We now incur at stake games and hands that were part of the
show and that caused his stupendous while lying profits, greed for the unwary. Directed and
implemented the most black men and the worst kind. While crude artifice, trick did not stop
many who considered themselves very astute. These took place in the plaza or in the street,
the dim light of candles or lanterns, and people taking part in them of all kinds, conditions,
ages and sexes. For high social position, we mean for whites, there was something more decent,
had the house of dance, where a Farruco, a Brito a Illas or Marqués de Casa Calvo had placed the
bench or play from the dark forest until after midnight, while lasted
eighteen days of the fair.

We tried the house or houses as they were dancing neighbor to the parish could or convent where
the novena is held. In the room we danced, played in the dining room orchestra, and in the
yard playing a game known as the Mt. The table was long and narrow that would fit most of
the players sitting on either side, the dealer to a head and the other his assistant who say
gurrupié. For the protection of players and cards, in case of rain, frequent in the fall, an
awning was stretched from the eaves of the house the bridge of the dividing wall of the neighbor.
Not all gamblers, to our shame be said, were the stronger sex, older, or the class willing,
in the crowded group and demanding of those who risked the fate of a letter, perhaps the support
of his family the next day, or the honor of the wife, daughter or sister, could lie to see busiest
lady who gamble their own decency, or still beardless boy or a friar mercenary serge habits straw
color, with wide-brimmed hat pulled down, the accounts of the long string between the thumb
and forefinger of his left hand and right employed to place the gold or silver coin at the point
that the more he, losing or gaining always with the same serenity
of mind to face.

The banker, to call by name more decent, was who was spending the rent house, the music and
the sperm candles lit the room to dance dining and game table. All this was done to attract players.
The input of course, was free, although the bastonero, who also threw salary, did not admit
any kind person. At that time ran very strong currency, the hard Spanish and ounces gold. The silver
often small, and it was something to hear the tinkle of pesos to continuous columnar and sound
ounces, the gamblers dropped mechanically from one hand to another or on the table to distract
the mind and somehow break the solemn silence of random game.

That nothing here is drawn in broad strokes was banned or not more than tolerated by constituted
authorities, it is clear from the fact that the gambling dens in Cuba paid a contribution to
the government for alleged objects of charity. What else? Advertising that ride was played
all over the island especially during the last period the Captain General Don Francisco Dionisio
Vives, announced, to leave no doubt that his policy or his government was based on the Machiavellian
principle of purchase for master, copying the other famous Roman
statesman: divide et impera.

Because equivalent to break the mood, the corrupt, which is not the people saw their own misery
and degradation.

But this digression, however necessary it might be, we have deviated somewhat from the target point
of this history. Drew our attention to an entire class dance floor which flourished in the precincts
of the city by the side facing south. The house where he had indeed offered mean appearance,
not by its facade down and dirty as the place where he was, which was none other than the gated San
Jose, opposite the wall on a street honda and stony. Although wide door with flap, was not what
was meant in Cuba hallway, then right to the room opened. After this came the room with the
corresponding tinajero, pyramidal cedar frame, which often locked shutters stone filter, the
jar red-bellied, the vases, a kind of terra cotta and pale alcarrazas of Valencia, Spain.
The dining room that was the side door of the first room, busy mostly by two orders of red
cowhide chairs, a bed with hangings white muslin and a cabinet, which said in Havana window.
Other rooms were to that, crowded with ordinary furniture, and parallel to them a long, narrow courtyard,
also blocked in part by the high parapet of a well whose waters brackish
with the adjoining house divided, finished patio rooms and a parlor
crossed and free.

The latter was a regular size table, dressed and prepared with utensils and for up to ten people,
some soft drinks and delicacies, Loja water, lemonade, wine candy, jams Cake, covered, sighing,
meringues, a ham decorated with loops ribbons and confetti, and a large fish swimming about
in a thick sauce of strong seasoning. In the room there were many ordinary wooden chairs placed
along the walls, and right as one enters from the street, a couch, with several stands up
straight ahead. He, at the time that our story begins, he occupied up to seven black and mulatto
musicians three violins, a bass, a flute, a pair of drums and a clarinet. The last instruments
mentioned herein was conducted by a young mulatto, well built and
not evil like face, who, despite his few years, led the little band.

This was seen standing at the head of the couch on the side of the street. His colleagues, almost
all older than him, Pepper said, and it was a nickname, and his true
surname, he appointed from now on.

His gaze distracted and even gloomy, never left the front door, as if expecting something
or someone, just when we speak now.

But that door, as well as square frame window, looked besieged a crowd of onlookers of all ages and
conditions, which only allowed access to the room women and men with right or desire to enter.
And we will, because rightly or had no ballot, nor did bastonero you receive or settle. The dance,
knowingly was one of those who, without knowing its origin, called cradle in Havana. We only
know that were given fair time, which they had free entry of individuals of both sexes color class,
but he also refuses to honor young white men who used with their presence. The fact, however,
be prepared inside a good drink, test if this was a crib in the broad sense of the word, at least
part of the attendance at the invitation had been received or expected to be well received.
This was in fact truth. The mistress of the house, rich and lavish mulatto, named Mercedes, was celebrating
his saint union of their particular friends, and opened the doors
to enjoy the dance fans this fun and contribute their presence to
more luster and interest of the meeting.

Eight o'clock at night. From the afternoon had been dropping the first rainy autumn, and although
they had stopped at dusk, having soaked the ground, leaving the streets impassable, they had
cooled the atmosphere. Far from it, had been so saturated with moisture, which adhered to the skin
and boiled in the pores. But these were not inconvenience for the curious, as we said before,
besieged the door and window, to fill almost half of the narrow, crooked street, or for those
attending the dance, that as the night wore on arriving in greater numbers, some on foot, others
in carriages. Nine kinds of the dance floor was swarming with human heads, the women sitting
in chairs around and the men standing in the middle, forming a compact group, all hats on,
so head sticking out, surely encountered with glass pump, suspended from a beam of three chains
of copper, the only burning sperm candle to illuminate half as strange
as that heterogeneous crowd.

Fairly was the number of black and mulatto who had entered, mostly dressed outlandishly. The
men of the same class, whose attendance exceeded that of women not dressed better taste, but almost
everyone wore cloth coat and vest of pique, the less Sucks canvas, denim or Arabia, which is then
generally used, and cloth hat. There was no shortage not young Creole decent and affluent families,
which shamelessly rubbed with people of color and fun taking part in their most characteristic,
some by mere hobby and others moved by motives less pure origin. It appears that some of them,
few indeed did not attempt the women of her class, if we are to judge by the disengage with which
stopped in the ballroom and spoke to his acquaintances or friends,
to science and presence of those who, silent spectators, they saw
from the window of the house.

Distinguished between Young said before, and by his manly beauty
of face and forms as for his jovial ways, one to whom his colleagues
said Leonardo. Things they couldn't have foreseen, or if they did, couldn't have done much about. All
it took was a little caution and a lot of alertness, plus one big important item: staying in
the background--not getting to know any one person too well--not giving any single individual
a chance to observe too much about me.

But Larry didn't mean to let me do that. And ... I didn't want him to.

He asked questions; I tried to answer them. I did know enough at least of the conventions to
realize that I didn't have to give detailed answers, or could, at any point, act offended at
being questioned so much. I didn't know enough to realize that reluctance or irritation on
my part wouldn't have made him go away. We sat on those stools at the diner for most of an
hour, talking, and after a little while I found I could keep the conversation on safer ground
by asking him about himself, and about the country thereabouts. He seemed to enjoy talking.

Eventually, he had to go back to work. As near as I could make out, he was a test-pilot, or
something like it, for a small experimental aircraft plant near the city. He lived not too
far from where I was staying, and he wanted to see me that evening.

I hadn't told him where the motel was, and I had at least enough caution left not to tell him,
even then. I did agree to meet him at the diner, but for lunch the next day again, instead
of that evening. For one thing, I had a lot to do; and for another, I'd seen enough on television
shows to know that an evening date was likely to be pretty long-drawn-out, and I wasn't sure
I could stand up under that much close scrutiny. I had some studying-up to do first. But the
lunch-date was fine; the thought of not seeing him at all was terrifying--as if he were an
old friend in a world full of strangers. That was how I felt, that first time, maybe just because
he was almost as small as I. But I think it was more than that, really.

       *       *       *       *       *

I drove downtown again, and found a store that seemed to sell all kinds of clothing for women.
Then when I got inside, I didn't know where to start, or what to get. I thought of just buying
one of everything, so as to fill up a suitcase; the things I had on seemed to be perfectly
satisfactory for actual wearing purposes. They were quite remarkably--when you stopped to think
of it--similar to what most of the women I'd seen that day were wearing, and of course they
weren't subject to the same problems of dirtying and wrinkling and such as the clothes in the
store were.

I walked around for a while, trying to figure out what all the different items, shapes, sizes,
and colors, were for. Some racks and counters had signs, but most of them were unfamiliar words
like brunchies, or Bermudas or scuffs; or else they seemed to be mislabeled, like dusters for
a sort of button-down dress, and Postage Stamp Girdles at one section of a long counter devoted
to "Foundation Garments." For half an hour or so, I wandered around in there, shaking my head
every time a saleswoman came up to me, because I didn't know, and couldn't figure out, what
to ask for, or how to ask for it.

The thing was, I didn't dare draw too much attention to myself by doing or saying the wrong
things. I'd have to find out more about clothes, somehow, before I could do much buying.

I went out, and on the same block I found a show-window full of suitcases. That was easy. I
went in and pointed to one I liked, and paid for it, and walked out with it, feeling a little
braver. After all, nobody had to know there was nothing in it. On the corner, I saw some books
displayed in the window of a drug store. It took all the courage I had to go in there, after
my first trip into one that looked very much like it, but I wanted a dictionary. This place
didn't smell quite so strong; I suppose the pharmacy was enclosed in back, and I don't believe
it had a lunch counter. Anyhow, I got in and out quickly, and walked back to the car, and sat
down with the dictionary.

It turned out to be entirely useless, at least as far as brunchies and Bermudas were concerned.
It had "scuff, v.," with a definition; "v.," I found out, meant verb, so that wasn't the word
I wanted, but when I remembered the slippers on the counter with the sign, it made sense in a way.

Not enough sense, though. The work, with its powerful classes
and oppressed classes, with corrupt officials and indolent bourgeoisie, with its mulatto discriminated
against and their black slaves with their families enriched by the slave system and aristocratic
coats of arms purchased from the decrepit Spanish monarchy serves enlightening preface to our republican
history.

The atmosphere of this colonial era, moved with the breadth and detail abounds pages of the book,
is decisive in the play, which determines its validity in assessing critics. For Cecilia Valdés
is far from a perfect work. The author explains in the preface to his creative process, a process
that undoubtedly resented the ending balance work. The central issue - the drama of love,
jealousy, revenge and death - hardly differs from usual in the brochures of the time, the characters
do not transcend most of the features outside, the action is disjointed and rambling, stolen the story
and main characters by creatures and minor events, the style, hybrid, full of romantic weaknesses
among those dawning glimpses realistic language, oscillating between the most archaic foraging and
the spontaneous popular turn ours outcome, hit, in contradiction with the dimensions of the narrative.

But
Cecilia Valdés is in our literary history, despite these numerous
and serious shortcomings the best novel of the nineteenth century
building.

Many Cubans know it today through the stage adaptation of José Agustín Rodríguez Sánchez Arcilla,
admirably into music by Gonzalo Roig; version that was necessarily vertebrate with the history
of the protagonists. Stripped of luxury descriptive of its environment, the case is weak and melodramatic.
This acclaimed adaptation confirms that the fundamental Cecilia Valdés is on the environment. His
habit of vigorous political inquiry, social and economic, is that attenuates its shortcomings
and sets to work on the doors of the novel realistic.

THE CUBAN

Far from Cuba, without hope of seeing its bright, flowers, and palms, to whom, but you, faces
countrywomen, reflecting the most beautiful side of the country,
would enshrine with more justice, these sad pages?

THE AUTHOR

PROLOGUE

Published the first volume of this novel, Don Lino Printing Literary mid Valdés the year 1839.
At one time I began the composition of the second volume, which was
complete; but it did not work very well because I moved shortly after
one of the Matanzas The teachers of the College of Business, recently
founded in that city, than because a Once there, I undertook the composition
of another novel, Girl with a golden arrow, I concluded and a volume
printed in 1841.

Back in the capital in the year 1842, without leaving the exercise of teaching, I entered joined
the staff of El Faro Industrial, which consecrated all literary works and romantic which continued
almost without interruption until mid-1848. In his columns, among many other writings of various kinds,
appeared in the form of brochures: - El Ciego and his dog, an excursion
to the Lower Back, The Comb Hollow, El Guajiro, Two Loves, The Missionary
of Caroni, the Penitent, etc.

After midnight of October 20 last year
said, I was surprised in bed prisoner, with great shock of soldiers
and officers by the district commissioner of Monserrate, Barreda;
and taken to the public prison, by order of Captain General of the
island, Don Federico Roncaly.


I told her there were a lot of things I wanted to know, and she seemed to think that was a
good answer, and said if she could help me any way, not to hesitate to ask, and then she left
me alone with those drawers and drawers full of letter-and-number keys to all the mysteries
of an alien world.

I found a book on how to outfit your daughter for college, that started with underwear and
worked its way through to jewelry and cosmetics. I also found a whole shelf full of law books,
and in one of them, specific information about the motor vehicle regulations in different States.
There was a wonderful book about diamonds and other precious stones, particularly fascinating
because it went into the chemistry of the different stones, and gave me the best measuring-stick
I found at any time to judge the general level of technology of that so-called Mechanical Age.

That was all I had time for, I couldn't believe it was so late, when the librarian came and
told me they were closing up, and I guess my disappointment must have showed all over me, because
she asked if I wouldn't like to have a card, so I could take books home?

I found out all I needed to get a card was identification. I was supposed to have a reference,
too, but the woman said she thought perhaps it would be all right without one, in my case.
And then, when I wanted to take a volume of the Encyclopedia Americana, she said they didn't
usually circulate that, but if I thought I could bring it back within a day or two....

I promised to, and I never did, and out of everything that happened, that's the one thing I
feel badly about. I think she must have been a very unusual and good sort of woman, and I wish
I had kept my promise to her.

       *       *       *       *       *

Some of the stores downtown were still open. I bought the things I'd be expected to have, as
near as I could make out from the book on college girls: panties and a garter belt and a brassiere,
and stockings. A slip and another blouse, and a coat, because even in the early evening it
was beginning to get chilly. Then the salesgirl talked me into gloves and a scarf and some
earrings. I was halfway back to the car when I remembered about night clothes, and went back
for a gown and robe and slippers. That didn't begin to complete the college girls' list, but
it seemed like a good start. I'd need a dress, too, I thought, if I ever did go out with Larry
in the evening ... but that could wait.

I put everything into the suitcase, and drove back to the motel. On the way, I stopped at a
food store, and bought a large container of milk, and some crackers, and some fruit--oranges
and bananas and apples. Back in my room, I put everything away in the drawers, and then sat
down with my book and my food, and had a wonderful time. I was hungry, and everything tasted
good, away from the dead meat smells, and what with clothes in the drawers and everything,
I was beginning to feel like a real Earth-girl.

I even took a bath in the bathroom.

A good long one. Next to the library, that's the thing I miss most. It would be even better,
if they made the tubs bigger, so you could swim around some. But just getting wet all over
like that, and splashing in the water, is fun. Of course, we could never spare enough water
for that on the ship.

Altogether, it was a good evening; everything was fine until I tried to sleep in that bed.
I felt as if I was being suffocated all over. The floor was almost as bad, but in a different
way. And once I got to sleep, I guess I slept well enough, because I felt fine in the morning.
But then, I think I must have been on a mild oxygen jag all the time I was down there; nothing
seemed to bother me too much. That morning, I felt so good I worked up my courage to go into
a restaurant again--a different one. The smell was beginning to be familiar, and I could manage
better. I experimented with a cereal called oatmeal, which was delicious, then I went back
to the motel, packed up all my new belongings, left the key on the desk--as instructed by the
sign on the door--and started out for Denver.

       *       *       *       *       *

Denver, according to the Encyclopedia Americana, is more of a true metropolitan area than Colorado
Springs; that means--on Earth--that it is dirtier, more crowded, far less pleasant to look
at or live in, and a great deal more convenient and efficient to do business in. In Denver,
and with the aid of a Colorado driver's license for casual identification, I was able to sell
two of my larger diamonds fairly quickly, at two different places, for something approximating
half of their full value. Then I parked the car they had given me on a side street, took my
suitcase, coat, and book with me, and walked to the nearest car sales lot. I left the keys
in the old car, for the convenience of anyone who might want it.

Everything went extraordinarily smoothly, with just one exception. I had found out everything
I needed to know in that library, except that when dealing with humans, one must always allow
for waste time. If I had realized that at the time I left Colorado Springs that morning, everything
might have turned out very differently indeed--although when I try to think just what other
way it could have turned out, I don't quite know ... and I wonder, too, how much they knew,
or planned, before they sent me down there....

This much is sure: if I hadn't assumed that a 70-mile trip, with a 60-mile average speed limit,
would take approximately an hour and a half, and if I had realized that buying an automobile
was not the same simple process as buying a nightgown, I wouldn't have been late for my luncheon
appointment. And if I'd been there on time, I'd never have made the date for that night. As
it was, I started out at seven o'clock in the morning, and only by exceeding the speed limit
on the last twenty miles of the return trip did I manage to pull into that diner parking space
at five minutes before two.

His car was still there!

It is so easy to look back and spot the instant of recognition or of error. My relief when
I saw his car ... my delight when I walked in and saw and felt his mixture of surprise and
joy that I had come, with disappointment and frustration because it was so late, and he had
to leave almost immediately. And my complete failure, in the midst of the complexities of these
inter-reactions, to think logically, or to recognize that his ordinary perceptions were certainly
the equivalent of my own....

At that moment, I wasn't thinking about any of these things. I spent a delirious sort of five
minute period absorbing his feelings about me, and releasing my own at him. I hadn't planned
to do it, not so soon, not till I knew much more than I did--perhaps after another week's reading
and going about--but when he said that since I'd got there so late for lunch, I'd have to meet
him for dinner, I found I agreed with him perfectly.

       *       *       *       *       *

That afternoon, I bought a dress. This, too, took a great deal of time, even more than the
car, because in the one case I simply had to look at a number of component parts, and listen
to the operation of the motor, and feel for the total response of the mechanism, to determine
whether it was suitable or not--but in the other, I had nothing to guide me but my own untrained
taste, and the dubious preferences of the salesgirl, plus what I thought Larry's reactions
might be. Also, I had to determine, without seeming too ignorant, just what sort of dress might
be suitable for a dinner date--and without knowing for sure just how elaborate Larry's plans
for the evening might be.

I learned a lot, and was startled to find that I enjoyed myself tremendously. But I couldn't
make up my mind, and bought three dresses instead of one. It was after that, emboldened by
pleasure and success, that I went back to that first drugstore. The Encyclopedia volume I had
taken from the library, besides containing the information I wanted on Colorado, had an article
on Cosmetics. I decided powder was unnecessary, although I could understand easily enough how
important it must be to the native women, with their thick skin and large pores and patchy
coloring; that accounted for the fact that the men were mostly so much uglier ... and I wondered
if Larry used it, and if that was why his skin looked so much better than the others'.

Most of the perfumes made me literally ill; a few were inoffensive or mildly pleasant, if you
thought of them just as smells, and not as something to be mistaken for one's own smell. And your father?

- I am Valdés, I have no father.

- That's better,
"said Mrs. reconsidering.

- Daddy, Daddy, said most of the girls
went to a gentleman who was leaning on a couch to the right of the
podium.

Dad, you've seen a lovely little?

- Ya, ya, the father replied almost without turning his head. Leave her alone. But they went out
those words from his lips, he noticed Cecilia, and between admiration,
and Reid said:

- Ay! I know the man who is lying there.

This, under the hands, with which already shaded forehead, he looked fierce, which were painted
her temper and anger. Then he rose and left the room without another
word.

Is indeed strange that only this man did not feel sympathy for the lovely street.

- "So you have no father or mother? Turned to ask the good lady, if no one is concerned by the
previous scene. And how do you live? Who do you live?

Are you the daughter of the earth or air?

- Holy Mother! cried the girl bending her head over his right shoulder and looking intently
to their questions. Oh, Jesus! What people so curious! I live with my grandmother, who is a very
good old lady, who loves me and lets me do whatever I want. My mother died a long time y. .. my
father. I do not know more or ask me more.

While girls want to ask more questions, and learn other details about of life and relatives of Cecilia,
but, on the one hand, his father had told them to leave her in peace, and, secondly, his mother,
unable to control his chagrin, he indicated by a gesture Significantly, it was time to come out
of there so impudent wench. Filled with gifts and farewell finally, Cecilia, went through the
back hallway on the street, a seasoning that came down from the high a young man in summer attire,
ie shorts Saudi sucks and who just saw her recognized her and told
from the top:

- Cecilia, ah, Cecilia!

Hey, look.

She, not containing the passage, but still staring at him and cried, telling him to front door:
Cuica! Cuica! And while opening the right hand, put his finger thumb on the tip of the nose and
moved the other very quickly. That is a fun way they often do kids in our streets, as saying:
Ah! Fooled you! Ah! I escaped from your nonsense.

It is not referring here to the scene following the departure of the girl in that house. Mr. and the
lady can say that no further mention of his name. The ladies, on the contrary, even when turned
to the window to see and greet their friends, who spent the ride back in luxurious carriages,
did not stop talking about Cecilia and repeating his name, helping
then the older brother who knew her and was often with her when she
went to the father's Latin class Morales, opposite the convent of
Santa Teresa.

In the meantime the girl, following in the street below came to the square of Santa Catalina,
whose embankment, which runs across the front, went up by leaps, and then fell to the street
Avocado by a concrete staircase. Once there, he went right, though cautious, immediately to
the corner house occupied by a tavern. Not touched or stopped before the door, but gently pushed
the blade of the right or male, which was subject with an average iron shot on the ground. He
had been with vermilion paint that door but washed by rain, sun and time, no dark spots left
but around head of the nails and the boards deep moldings. The window, which mirror was high,
only had three or four balusters, had lost the original painting, bathroom light was left with
a lead color. As far inland, its appearance was meanest, if possible, than abroad. It consisted
of a small room divided by a screen for form a bedroom whose door was precisely toward the
street, and one on the right narrow exit to the yard and not longer than the back of the house.
To the left of the entry and the height of a rod, had a hole in the dividing wall, as a niche,
whose background was a whole body pain Mother, although very small, with a sword of fire across
his chest from side to side. Lit day and night so strange Painting two butterflies, that is,
two burners with its corresponding wick, floating in three parts of water and oil, regular glasses
into glass. A garland of all artificial flowers and pieces of gold and silver cardboard, soiled,
faded and dusty adorned the altar. And all around, the walls, on the screen and behind the doors and
windows large number of signs, for example Holy Mother! The Grace of God be in this house! Viva Jesus!
Viva Maria! Viva Grace and Sin dies! With many of the sort, that I must not repeat them. The prints,
no box, glued to the walls with wafers or paste, were more numerous than the signs, all saints,
printed by the printer Bologna [6] on plain paper and collected at the hands of the applicants
of the monasteries in return for alms or purchased at the door of the churches in the holidays.

Very little down to the furniture, but in his littleness and debris
that had been known better times when new.

The more palatable of the house was a seat of Campeche, and lame, with big ears and rickety.
Agregábanse three or four chairs with seat and cedar cowhide back in the same style, strong, solid
and ancient. Matched with them a corner of the wood itself, whose feet were carved in the
form of hoof satyr molded and vine leaves.

Despite the narrowness of this hostel was a sleepy cat, several chickens
and pigeons, certainly very familiar with only two human hosts, as
they came and went, jumping on the backs of chairs, meowed, cooing
and cackling without consideration or fear.

On one side of the room was a loft bed, oblong, who was always of receipt as it was of rawhide,
the hardness of the softened a featherbed covered perennially with a quilt of a thousand and one pieces
or inlay. The twisted columns, instead of curtains, held San Blas, scapulars, crosses, cardboard,
glass stones and blessed palms of Palm Sunday many years ago.

In reality this was not home but gave shelter to about two, because, outside the two mentioned
parts, had no more comfort or relief that the court said, where he was the kitchen, the better,
fireplace, wooden drawer full of ashes, mounted on four uprights
and protected from rain by a kind of forward bedside.

We stopped in both description of the shack where Cecilia came, because their imagination stop
the benign reader in contrast, would offer a girl so beautiful, overflowing life and youth, in
the midst of antique, that it seemed that heaven had placed there to say all the time ear: - Child,
includes what you will and be more sane.

But we are confident that this was the least she thought, and then double reason As mattered most
felt they did not get a certain person who, back in chair, in front of the niche, seemed to
pray or sleep.

However, that he should put more touch the rogue in the way of settling the plant, could not
do so callandito not hear her and distinctly felt the old, whose ears were very fine, and then
do not read or asleep but read, take a bow, in a small book of prayers parchment-lined.

- Hello! he said looking sideways over perfectly round rings of glasses, enhorquilladas at
the tip of the nose, by way of a boy to the back of a horse Hello
Miss! "Here's you? Huh? Great!

Are these times come to seek the blessing his grandmother? (Because the girl was coming with
his arms crossed.) Where have you been up to Now, a good piece? (They had played and the prayers.)
Linda was to go for the oils! And suddenly throwing hand, in which event he dropped the book and
were afraid the cat who blinked often sitting in a chair, pigeons and chickens. Come hither,
spirit, she added, butterfly wingless sheep without a flock of wild stocks; see, I have to figure
out where you've been up to these hours. What, you have no king nor Roque govern you, nor Pope excommunicate
you? Where One has seen that? Do not you have more life than running the streets? Can not find anyone
with you? I will make you understand that some people can. I was to see!

Cecilia, far from being frightened or run away, with much laughter burst into the arms of bad-tempered
grunting and grandmother, and to tie his tongue, he gave as he had
been given the where girls had been.

CHAPTER III

     Damn old That the
      girls badly Crazy about fables.

ZORRILLA

More
      flattery and cunning of which fit in a girl her age, Cecilia hugged
and kissed his grandmother, whom he named Chepilla (Josefa capricious
alteration), so usually called.

         That was enough to appease their anger, and nothing in it that surprising
because, as we shall see, had been so unhappy woman, felt such a need
to be loved by the only person that cared about the world, to maintain
reliability the granddaughter, had been like to extend his own martyrdom.

Of course, sealed his lips at once, and he missed another thing to contemplate, well and just
before had been contemplating the sweet face of Mary, in earnest prayer.

While the girl clasped at the waist to the old with shapely arms and leaned beautiful head
on his chest, similar to the flower that blossoms in a dry stem and leaves and fragrance enjoys
life with death itself, the figure was more sign Josefa strange and ugly than it was naturally.
Her face itself was opposed to the rest of body. Whether it was because he used to take the hair
back, and because it took nature, the truth is that it looked too
wide forehead, big nose, blunt sharp chin, and sunken eye sockets.

This gave expression to his face grimly, not easy to overlook the less informed observer.
Morbidity was still in her arms, and his hands could be described as cute. But the most notable
of his face were his eyes large, dark and penetrating remnants of a faction that had been pleasant,
disharmony now by premature aging.

Mulata of origin, their color was copper, and over the years and wrinkles had become sunburnt,
or slanted, to avail ourselves of the common expression that is designated in Cuba to a mulatto
child and black, or vice versa. Could be 60 years old but looks older, because it began to bleach
the hair, something that people of color tends to happen later than in the Caucasian. The mood
disorders face first annihilate the body mortal man. As we shall see later, Christian resignation,
the work of his faith in God, grass that finally fed his spirit in
the long hours devoted to prayer and meditation only had remained
standing against the onslaught of his wretched fate.

Moreover, with the sad conviction of which a measured look at his past and his future, and what
should and could expect from his granddaughter, beautiful flowers thrown in the middle of the
public square for be trodden down of the first passer-by, and in the last third of your life with
regrets the past, before anger, he realized that he played to appease the wrath of their invisible
judge and sought quiet moments, when sounded postrimera meantime.

In one in which our narrative surprises, although it had met 80 of its life, have believed that he
had lived a very short time if they did their last moments and left behind yes to the helpless
young granddaughter in the world, and she was not as attend the outcome of a drama in which
she, rather reluctantly, without being the heroine, represented, for some time, role important.
Sign off the character of Joseph, naturally irascible, the rule of conduct that has been said
before, as a means of achieving the forgiveness of his own faults, it is easy understand why, but
Cecilia just mad because she was late, and other many previous failures,
he was willing to exonerate rather than scolding.

Then as she came with his flattery, rather than steal the body, it's served as a pretext plausible
to be confirmed in their purpose. By virtue thereof, promptly changing the tone and appearance,
contented himself with asking for a second time where he had been.

- Me? repeated the girl supporting both elbows on the knees of my grandmother and playing with scapulars
hung from her neck. Me? In the house of some very pretty girls that I were passed and they called
me. There was a fat lady sitting in an armchair, I asked what my name was me and how my mother
was called, and who was my father, and where I lived ...

- Jesus! Jesus! said Josefa crossing sign.

- Ay! continued the girl without considering the grandmother. What people so inquisitive! Did
not know the market as one of those girls wanted me to cut hair to make a cap? Yes, sir. But
I stretched forth.

- See You evil spirit, and where to climb! she cried as if speaking
grandmother itself.

- And if not for a man, went on Cecilia, who
was lying on the couch, and scolded the girls and told them to let
me still and then went to his room Bravissimo ... Does your mercy
do not know who is he, Grandma?

I've seen him talk to his mercy sometimes beyond to Paula, when we go to church. Yes, yes, he
is, I have no doubt. And I remember now that is the same each time I find on the street tells
me street, lost, urchin and many things.

Ah! He says he sent the soldiers to take me and take me to jail. How do I know more! I have
much fear of that man.

It must be very nagging!

- Girl! Girl! hoarsely exclaimed the old lady get away from his chest and looking at her Fixed
a strange way, more angry than surprised. But as if a serious thought occurs or a painful memory
and between warn and advise, what perhaps amounted to shine what you should be ignorant life,
his spirit sad struggle in a sea of ​​doubt granddaughter surprised to suddenly his lips sealed.
Gradually the high sea was serene disheveled, vanished one after
the other clouds huddled at the horizon naturally dark, and turning
to shake the girl in her bare arms, said with all the sweetness he
could give his voice hoarse naturally, calmly that he could take his
face:

- Cecilia!

 Then we turned and looked at each other, and he reached out for me and
kissed me again; after which he pulled away as if the touch of me hurt him, and grabbed hold
of the wheel with a savage look on his face, and raced the motor, and raised a cloud of dust
on the road behind us.

I didn't understand, and I felt hurt. I wanted to stop again. I wanted to be kissed again.
I didn't like sitting alone on my side of the seat, with that growl in his throat not quite
coming out.

I asked him to stop again. He shook his head, and made believe to smile.

"I'll buy you a book," he said. "All about the birds and the bees and a little thing we have
around here we call sex. I'll buy it tomorrow, and you can read it--you do know how to read,
don't you?--and then we'll take another ride, and we can park if you want to. Not tonight, baby."

"But I know...." I started, and then had sense enough to stop. I knew about sex; but what I
knew about it didn't connect with kissing or parking the car, or sitting close ... and it occurred
to me that maybe it did, and maybe there was a lot I didn't know that wasn't on Television,
and wasn't on the Ship's reference tapes either. Morals and mores, and nuances of behavior.
So I shut up, and let him take me back to the hotel again, to my own car.

He leaned past me to open the door on my side, but he couldn't quite make it, and I had my
fourth kiss. Then he let go again, and almost pushed me out of the car; but when I started
to close the door behind me, he called out, "Tomorrow night?" Underneath the jacket, water appeared a red ribbon and white, folded in half and subject
ends with a clasp of gold. This served as a chain to watch in his pocket pants. There was another
man who stood out more so that Leonardo, although different way, that is, they differed in
their opinions and laughed at his jests of Afro-Cubans, and the familiarity with which he treated
women, all the loves of home. Already was nearing forty years old this guy had no beard hair
was white face, with big eyes and wild, long nose, red towards the tip, indicating their little
sobriety, large mouth, more expressive. Always carried under his left arm a Rattan-handled
gold and black silk tassels. Accompanied him everywhere, as shadow the body, a man of ordinary
facade, notable for the narrowness of the forehead, moving and burning their ojicos, and above
all for his enormous black whiskers, which gave the air before that sheriff bandit, played
job then, for the other to who was nothing less than Cantalapiedra, district commissioner of
the Angel, which left tempting to wander after birth.

Rato made the music touched the sentimental and lively contra Cuba,
although still dancing, to avail ourselves of the vulgar phrase, had
not rompido.

Eager accommodated the mistress of the house to her friends and older individuals in the chairs
in the room, for except that the steps and missteps could enjoy the party while not losing
sight of the objects or care, or caring, that as young people were in the room. Pepper, clarinet,
was still standing at the head of the orchestra, playing his instrument favorite, almost face to
the street, as if it had not yet entered the individual worth music, or I would be the first
to see it go. It seemed, however, useless this care, came as no man or woman who does not have
anything to say to the step. All these greetings he invariably answered with a nod, with the
exception that when it was her turn to captain Cantalapiedra, who with his usual familiarity put
her hand on his shoulder and spoke in secret, said removing the instrument from the mouth: -
So seems, sir.

Could be noted that every time he entered a remarkable woman for any reason, violins, certainly
to honor him, pressed the arches, the flute or fife pierced ears
with the sharp sounds of his instrument, the drummer who looked very
rattled, bass, managed by the then famous toast, [7] made a bow with
his body and pulled low deepest imaginable, and clarinet executed
the most difficult and melodic variations.

Those men, it is undeniable, were inspired, and the Contra Cuba, his creation, even with such a small
orchestra, had not lost one iota of grace spicy or deep character Malicious-sentimental.
 I was older. I wasn't
born there. Getting born is complicated. Oxygen, gravity, things like that. You can't raise
a human baby on a spaceship.... Human? What's human? What am I? Never mind the labels. It would
be my baby....

I didn't want a baby. I just wanted Larry to hold me close to him and kiss me.

       *       *       *       *       *

I drove downtown and on the way to the library I passed a bookstore, so I stopped and went
in there instead. That was better. I could buy what I wanted, and not have to ask permission
to take it out, and if there was more than one, I could have all I wanted.

I asked the man for books about sex. He looked so startled, I realized the taboo must apply
on the verbal level too.

I didn't care. He showed me where the books were, and that's all that mattered. "Non-fiction
here," he said. "That what you wanted, Miss?"

Non-fiction. Definitely. I thanked him, and picked out half a dozen different books. One was
a survey of sexual behavior and morals; another was a manual of techniques; one was on the
psychology of sex, and there was another about abnormal sex, and one on physiology, and just
to play safe, considering the state of my own ignorance, one that announced itself as giving
a "clear simple explanation of the facts of life for adolescents."

I took them all to the counter, and paid for them, and the man still looked startled, but he
took the money. He insisted on wrapping them up, though, before I could leave.

       *       *       *       *       *

The next part of this is really Larry's story, but unable as I am, even now, to be certain
about his unspoken thoughts, I can only tell it as I experienced it. I didn't do anything all
that day, except wade through the books I'd bought, piece-meal, reading a few pages here and
a chapter there. The more I read, the more confused I got. Each writer contradicted all the
others, except in regard to the few basic biological facts that I already knew. The only real
addition to my factual knowledge was the information in the manual of technique about contraception--and
that was rather shocking, even while it was tempting.

The mechanical contrivances these people made use of were foolish, of course, and typical of
the stage of culture they are going through. If I wanted to prevent conception, while engaging
in an act of sexual intercourse, I could, do so, of course, but....

The shock to the glandular system wouldn't be too severe; it was the psychological repercussions
I was thinking about. 

Suddenly stopped the mules trotted into the corner of the alley of San Juan de Dios and left
space and no little trouble with the buggy a tall, good job, evening dress black buttoned to
the neck, revealing underneath the vest or light-colored waistcoat, carranclán pants up, tie
bristle and beaver hat with enormous glass wing narrow. As could be discerned in the half light
of the stars, the factions most notable were the nose man, who was hooked, very bright eyes,
the face oval and small beard. The color of it and the hair, shades and hat altered the convent
walls neighbor, obscured perhaps without being black.

- Follow up the street from the Stoned - said the gentleman in an imperious tone, lower support
left hand on the saddle of the mule yards - and looks away to the corner. If round to give
you, say you belong to Don Joaquin Gomez and awaiting orders. Do you understand, Pio?

- Yes, sir, "replied the coachman, who since he started talking about his master had his hat
in hand.

And following the passage of mules to the point that you said that.

Alley San Juan de Dios consists of two blocks only, closed at one end on the walls of the convent
of Santa Catalina and the other in the houses of the street Havana. The hospital of San Juan de
Dios, which gives its name, and which high and square windows, always let out the hot breath of
the sick, occupies an entire side of the second block and the other three small houses and a single
red tile floor, the last notably higher than the street level, with one and two stone steps to the
door. The best looking of them were entering the first block of the street de Compostela. Were
all the same size, more or less, single window and door, this cedar with large-headed nails,
painted brick, or mirror it or flown [4] and thick wooden balusters. The floor of the street was in
its primitive natural state, rocky and without sidewalks.

The strange gentleman, leaning against the walls, under the projecting eaves tiles stopped at
the door of the third house on the right and gave two taps with the tip fingers. There no doubt
waiting for him, because soon open what it took to move from door window to the person who removed
the gate that closes on the inside. That was be the mistress of the house, mulatto and 40 years
of age, of medium height, filled with meats, but retained the narrow waist, rounded shoulders, bare,
beautiful head, the rather thick nose, mouth, expressive and very
curly thick hair.

Embroidered shirt wore thin, shirts, and twill skirts without folds or no embellishment.

There was little furniture in the room, leaning against the right wall a mahogany table on which
burned a wax candle in a windshield or lantern, and several heavy chairs cedar cowhide seat and back,
nailed with brass tacks. At that time this had the luxury, much more for a woman of color,
who occupied that room as love and not as a maid. The gentleman shook his hand as he entered,
he only bowed serious while being funny and kind that no contest was even stranger, because
apart their difference in status and race, their respective ages
was remarkable at first view and there was no other relationship between
them than friendship, more or less sincere and selfless. I don't know yet what's going
on, and I don't think I'm going to like it when I find out. I don't like it already that you
told me a pack of lies last night. Just the same, God help me, I don't think it's what it sounds
like. But I'm the only one who doesn't. Now you better give it to me straight, because they've
got half the security personnel of this entire area out hunting for you, and nobody else is
going to care much what the truth is. My God, on top of everything else, you had to run away!
Now, give out, kid, and make it good. This one has got to stick."

I didn't understand a lot of what he said. I started trying to explain, but he wouldn't listen.
He wanted something else, and I didn't know what.

Finally, he made me understand.

He'd almost believed my story the night before. Almost, but there was a detail somewhere that
bothered him. He couldn't remember it at first; it kept nudging around the edge of his mind,
but he didn't know what it was. He forgot about it for a while. Then, in the Garden, I made
my second big mistake. (He didn't explain all of this then; he just accused, and I didn't understand
this part completely until later.) I wanted him to park the car.

Any girl on Earth, no matter how sheltered, how inexperienced, would have known better than
that. As he saw it, he had to decide whether I was just so carried away by the night and the
mood and the moment that I didn't care--or whether my apparent innocence was a pose all along.

When we separated in front of the hotel that night, we both had to take the same road for a
while. Larry was driving right behind me for a good three miles, before I turned off at the
motel. And that was when he realized what the detail was that had been bothering him: my car. The round cheeks and a dimple in the middle of the beard, formed a joint beautiful, which
only needed to be perfect to be less mischievous expression, if not evil.

Body was rather thin than thick, for low grown old before, and torso, seen from the back, neck and
narrow in width to the shoulders, was delightful harmony, humble even under clothes, with the
narrow, flexible figure, there is no means of comparing but with a glass base. The complexion
could pass for healthy living embodiment, speaking in the sense that the artists take this
word, although little is fixed Care is warned in the color of the face, while remaining blood was
too ocher in their composition, and it was not transparent nor free. What race, therefore belonged
to the girl? Hard to say. However, a knowing eye could not hide his lips Red had a dark edge or
fillet, and the lighting of the face ended in a twilight toward the hairline. His blood was not
pure and it could ensure that back in the third or fourth generation was mixed with the Ethiopian.

But
anyway, such was its beauty pilgrim, joy and vivacity, that were
of a kind of charm, leaving the mind to wander but to admire and pass
by faults or the leftovers of their children.

Had never seen her sad, never angry, never fight with anyone, nor could be right where you lived or
what remained. What was, then a girl so pretty, hitting the streets day and night, like a hungry
dog ​​without owner? Had not she who by their nature do not govern vagabond?

Meanwhile, the girl grew bold and fresh, without regard for research and gossip that was the object,
and without realizing that street life, which she thought very natural,
suspicion and fear, if not compassion to some old, that their thanks
sources and the neglect and freedom with which he lived, fed hopes
of bastard lineage in youths hearts that beat at her through the square
of Christ, when the little run and the subtlety of the fox stealing
a muffin or rinds to the black part of night there are set to fry,
or carelessly stuck his hand in small crates Raisin grocery stores
in the street corners, or when he picked up the banana ripe mango
or guava fruit board, or twist her blind dog in the barrel of the
corner, or you headed for San Juan de Dios, if I went to Santa Clara:
[5] that all these pranks were worthy of celebration in a girl of
her age and look.

 But I didn't trust me. By the time I went to work this morning, I was half-nuts.
I didn't know what to think, that's all. And I finally sold myself on the idea that if you
were what you said you were, nobody would get hurt, and--well, if you weren't on the level,
I better find out, quick. Secretary was in New York Narciso
López, whom he knew since 1846, and editor in chief of The Truth. Published in New Orleans between
1853 and 1854 the newspaper The Independent, etc.

He moved to Philadelphia in 1854, where he lived as a Spanish teacher
and married with Emilia Casanova, a leading activist in the Cuban
independence.

He returned to Havana in 1858, received amnesty. Here he worked at the forefront of printing the Antilla,
which published some works of interest to our letters, including
items manners of Anselmo Suárez y Romero, and assisted in the literary
journal in the company of Havana Sterling and Calcagno, with important
critical judgments about Betancourt and other contemporaries. I couldn't think of anything while I was talking to them. Right afterwards, I remembered
plenty of things--which roads you were familiar with, and what you'd seen before and what you
hadn't, stuff like that, so--"

"So you--?"

"So I came out myself. I wanted to find you first. Listen, babe, I love you. Maybe I'm a sucker,
and maybe I'm nuts, and maybe I-don't-know-what. But I figured maybe I could find out more,
and easier on you, than they could. And honey, it better be good, because I don't think I've
got what it would take to turn you in, and now I've found you--"

He let it go there, but that was plenty. He was willing to listen. He wanted to believe in
me, because he wanted me. And finding me in the house I'd described, where I'd said it was,
had him half-convinced. But I still had to explain those Massachusetts plates. Requires that the girl takes a name, a name that no be ashamed
tomorrow, or these other day, Valdes, that might make a good marriage. To this there was no choice
but to pass by the Royal Creche. This has not been more painful for the mother, I know, that
... all of us. But in a few days the baptized and then I'll have to bring her here Mary Rule,
my woman, that three months it lost a son from the evil of the seven days, and breastfeeding in
order Creche mine. She will return healthy, and Christian save his mother's arms. I have a fixed
all that with Montes de Oca, a doctor from the Royal House, who often know by the girl. Al
beginning to cry a lot and refused to take the breast of Mary Rule, so enflaqueció a little.
But all that has happened and is now plump and rosy, that is, as I have been informed Montes de
Oca, because I have not seen since the night that I go through the turnstile ... My eyes went after
her. Words can not express how much I took that step ... But otherwise. You know, however,
that there is no mistake.

- Too much I know - said the mulatto wiping away tears. Can not err, no. For Regarding why I'm
quiet, like that in spite of her shrieks, which broke my heart, I made the blue crescent in
the left shoulder, according to Mr. I ordered. I do not know who would hurt more if her or me
... Mother, mother, my lord, is what got me restless. She can not resist. By force loses his mind
or life. I will repeat the Lord.

Josefa sign, as he called the stranger, knew he was smart woman, but by neglect of their education
often incurred in the common faults of the vulgar language the people in Cuba. Despite the maturity
of their years and their sorrows, retained samples a young beautiful and distinguished, kindly,
loving expression of the mouth and roundness neck, shoulders and arms. He had the sallow color
of the mixture resulting black female and a male Indian, but curly hair and oval face did not
support probability of such marriage, but the black mother and white father. When Young took
comfortable life, had joys and brushed with people well-bred and well-mannered. Honda had to
be the grief that at the time the afflicted, as were the frequency of sighs repeated contraction
of his eyebrows and the abundance of aqueous humor in their swimming big eyes and dimmed the
brightness. Moreover, his attitude was more despair than true regret. Indeed, as we shall
see, had every reason for one and not missing for that.

It had moments that both characters were silent, each in turn with their own thoughts, insurance that
did not coincide at any point in time that they heard a moan and a piercing scream hatched inside the
house. Some crackpot. Some ... how about it, kid?"

I couldn't say yes and I couldn't say no, and I did the only thing that was left, which was
to get hysterical. In a big way.

He had to calm me down, of course. And I found out why the television shows stop with the kiss.
The rest is very private and personal.

       *       *       *       *       *

Author's note: This story was dictated to me by a five-year-old boy--word-for-word, except
for a very few editorial changes of my own. He is a very charming and bright youngster who
plays with my own five-year-old daughter. One day he wandered into my office, and watched me
typing for a while, then asked what I was doing. I answered (somewhat irritably, because the
children are supposed to stay out of the room when I'm working) that I was trying to write a story.

"What kind of a story?"

"A grown-up story."

"But what kind?"

"A science-fiction story." The next thing I was going to do was to call my daughter, and ask
her to take her company back to the playroom. I had my mouth open, but I never got a syllable
out. Teddy was talking.

"I don't know where they got the car," he said. "They made three or four stops before the last...."
He had a funny look on his face, and his eyes were glazed-looking.

I had seen some experimental work with hypnosis and post-hypnotic performance. After the first
couple of sentences, I led Teddy into the living-room, and switched on the tape-recorder. I
left it on as long as he kept talking. I had to change tapes once, and missed a few more sentences.
When he was done, I asked him, with the tape still running, where he had heard that story.

"What story?" he asked. He looked perfectly normal again.

"The story you just told me."

He was obviously puzzled. 

Meanwhile continued the struggle between mother and daughter. This, with frightened eyes, disheveled
hair, his forehead covered with copious sweat, cheeks flushed by fever, repelled with both
hands to the mother and repeated: - Let me, mama, let me see that face of a heretic. I ask
my daughter's account. The I removed it, he, entrails of a beast. And the mother, always in tears
flooded her in his arms, he replied: - By love of God, my daughter, by the Immaculate Conception
of Mary, for your health, the Your daughter, who is alive and well, shut up, calm down. I'll
beg for heaven's sake.

But as the struggle drags on, the gentleman approached the bed, took his hand of the patient, which
she rejected, and deep voice, but filled with exquisite tenderness,
he said:

- Charlie, listen.

I promise that tomorrow you will see your daughter. Back at you. Calm down! No more crazy.

Séase that deal runs out both the forces that impose respect séase voice the unknown, it is certain
that the patient, breathing a deep sigh, fell suddenly back on the pillow and lay there motionless
for a short time. Unless the mother did not believe, at first, but had expired. Laid it on
that occasion, hand on heart, and how, and by the shock, and because in fact he had paralyzed
the blood in the veins of the patient did not feel the pulse briefly. So, greatly frightened,
turned to the gentleman, who apparently watched the scene impassively silent, and bitter accent
counterclaim said

- You see, sir? She's dead.

This was not party to the gentleman to lose his natural equanimity.

Far from it, with very calm and deliberation took the pulse of the
girl in the guise of a physician, and then said:

- Bring you ether.

He's fainted. This girl is very weak, needs food.

- The doctor has forbidden, Josefa observed signal.
- Physicians do not know what is caught. You Dela broth. But dispatched
with ether.

Brought the volatile alkali, were applied to the nose,
but the only signs of life that gave the girl was a quiver of the
eyelids, which did not open by the way, and mourn in silence, or thread
by thread, as stated in the graphic vulgar expression. They will continue to pay, for
more years than make sense in terms of a human lifetime. They will continue to wander from
planet to planet and system to system, because they have broken their own law, and now may
never go home.

But I can.

I am a woman, and Larry is a man. We will go home and have our baby. And perhaps the baby will
be the means of our freedom, some day. If we cannot speak to save ourselves, he may some day
be able to speak for us.

I do not think the blocks they set in us will penetrate my womb as my own thoughts, I hope,
already have.

       *       *       *       *       *

Author's note: Before writing this story--as a story--I talked with Johnny's parents. That girl not
have the strength to endure. Ah! my lord, this made the miss, I'm looking; has given me heart.

And
he said no more, because the emotion in his voice choked her throat.

-
I see you flinch, sign Josefa, "said the stranger softly and feeling.

Why, has not tried to convince you that separation is only a short
time?

It's not her any girl ...

- What if I have not tried!

The Lord seems to not know entodavía. She does not listen to reason.

Johnny himself is small and fair-haired. He takes after his paternal grandmother, his mother
says....

       *       *       *       *       *

