JOHN INGERFIELD AND OTHER STORIES

Contents

To the Gentle Reader

In Remembrance of John Ingerfield and of Anne, his Wife

The Woman of the Saeter

Variety Patter

Silhouettes

The Lease of the "Cross Keys"

TO THE GENTLE READER; also TO THE GENTLE CRITIC.

Once upon a time, I wrote a little story of a woman who was crushed to death by a python. 
A day or two after its publication, a friend stopped me in the street.  "Charming little story
of yours," he said, "that about the woman and the snake; but it's not as funny as some of your
things!" The next week, a newspaper, referring to the tale, remarked, "We have heard the incident
related before with infinitely greater humour."

With this--and many similar experiences--in mind, I wish distinctly to state that "John Ingerfield,"
"The Woman of the Saeter," and "Silhouettes," are not intended to be amusing.  The two other
items--"Variety Patter," and "The Lease of the Cross Keys"--I give over to the critics of the
new humour to rend as they will; but "John Ingerfield," "The Woman of the Saeter," and "Silhouettes,"
I repeat, I should be glad if they would judge from some other standpoint than that of humour,
new or old. 

Stories are told this prince, before inheriting the title of Sultan, he was hopelessly HIAL love with
the beautiful daughter of the first of the Wazir of his father, leading man and powerful, but even
a kinsman of the royal family, was not included in the calculations of Sultan old to allow
such a link. This is that the Sultan wanted to marry the prince Alamar child a princess of
Fez to say with such an alliance the Moslem empire in Spain, and power with the help of African
Kabyle, reject Christians who came over to walk him invading and occupying their territory,
as the incessant waves of a sea ambitious and insatiable.

The death of Alamar cut into flower projects as prudent, and released the new Sultan to follow
the candy inclinations of his heart, telling it that, with a strong arm and a strong will, could
face of Aragon to the east, and Castile the part of the Algarve of
his kingdom.

So while calls made from their governors and captains, and their armies and riders, and African
and Andalusian, came together, rushed the boy Sultan weddings, as should be with all the pomp,
and wealth gala monarchs used to Granada hold and pour on solemn occasions, and certainly nothing
for a loving heart more solemnity and grandeur that the day would
have the object who is both desired.

The Masamudes, the Aliatares, the Benegas and many other knights of noble families, crews available,
rods and tournaments, the ladies, relatives of the future Sultana, traced cármenes and gardens
in the festivities and zambras with which they had to hold so fortunate link, and the merchants
of jewelry, fabrics, scents and other precious objects were everywhere, and everywhere were missed,
it was so lively curiosity to see, and longing for purchase and possession at all costs of such
preciousness own luxury East and pageantry at that time held the Arab court of Granada. The lover
Sultan, meanwhile, performed in the palaces of the Alhambra and the Generalife Verjel all fictions
and dreams of the Arabian Nights, pouring riches and treasures, so
that those rooms were even more delighted worthy to receive and accommodate
the peerless HIAL.

Everything was ready now for the last ceremony, and the Sultan ordered
that his beautiful girlfriend go up from his home in Granada palaces
the palaces of the Alhambra, three days before weddings, which were
set to the halide or full moon of the month of flowers.

Mohamad's mother was Sultana's future as the most beloved daughter, the latter race from his palace
at one end of town to the royal lodge, was a triumph. In addition to all the nobility of his
home and kindred, and the princes of the blood that rode on superb horses, appealed by gangs
and boasts the richest finery and jewels, were the ulema, imams, Wazir and Kadis, each in its
rightful place. Then let the guard see Jacinto, made of a thousand black slaves, and so-called
the stone that shone in turbans and then followed the invincible, consisting of three thousand Africans
with silver shields and wielding spears of bright red steel shafts. From a distance they looked
coming twenty and twenty zebras giraffes, leading in flasks sandalwood and precious woods, clothing,
gifts, alizaque or dowry of the bride, and then between a large delegation of sheiks and elders,
chiefs of the Kabyle and lineages, it was left see a rich palanquin
hook, lace and brocade, and poles of coral and pearl.

We also forget that preceded the Sultana numerous bands of musicians dressed the indica-fashioned,
and blowing their instruments by the most soft and voluptuous, and
went ahead vistosísimas twelve peacocks spreading their wings to other
poultry peregrina nature and brought from Arabia, from Iraq and Hindi.

What catches the public's curiosity was to see the jumps and gestures of a large number of
monkeys and Jimi, who of all sizes and degustation, and forming a squad as extravagant, were mimicking
the mood and seriousness of the solemn and long procession. Some, height and flood were brought
from the interior of Africa, and they were dressed in their Capellaro,
Marlotes and turbans, would err on your veneers revejidas, bright
eyes sunken and other accidents, some of the old officers of the court.

He

said one is the Cadi Anakin, this is the Abdual Katib, cried another, as this other, yelling that,
without the slightest bit more or less, is the mayor of the treasures Albut Seid. See what
open eyes gleam as you see something that looks like gold or silver.

In the days when the most saleable and the highest priced article in the markets of Europe
was a strong arm and a cool head, then each Ingerfield (as "Inge," long rooted in Yorkshire
soil, had grown or been corrupted to) was a soldier of fortune, and offered his strong arm
and his cool head to the highest bidder.  They fought for their price, and they took good care
that they obtained their price; but, the price settled, they fought well, for they were staunch
men and true, according to their lights, though these lights may have been placed somewhat
low down, near the earth.

Then followed the days when the chief riches of the world lay tossed for daring hands to grasp
upon the bosom of the sea, and the sleeping spirit of the old Norse Rover stirred in their
veins, and the lilt of a wild sea- song they had never heard kept ringing in their ears; and
they built them ships and sailed for the Spanish Main, and won much wealth, as was their wont.

Later on, when Civilisation began to lay down and enforce sterner rules for the game of life,
and peaceful methods promised to prove more profitable than violent, the Ingerfields became
traders and merchants of grave mien and sober life; for their ambition from generation to generation
remains ever the same, their various callings being but means to an end.

A hard, stern race of men they would seem to have been, but just--so far as they understood
justice.  They have the reputation of having been good husbands, fathers, and masters; but
one cannot help thinking of them as more respected than loved.

They were men to exact the uttermost farthing due to them, yet not without a sense of the thing
due from them, their own duty and responsibility--nay, not altogether without their moments
of heroism, which is the duty of great men.  History relates how a certain Captain Ingerfield,
returning with much treasure from the West Indies--how acquired it were, perhaps, best not
to inquire too closely--is overhauled upon the high seas by King's frigate.  Captain of King's
frigate sends polite message to Captain Ingerfield requesting him to be so kind as to promptly
hand over a certain member of his ship's company, who, by some means or another, has made himself
objectionable to King's friends, in order that he (the said objectionable person) may be forthwith
hanged from the yard-arm.

Captain Ingerfield returns polite answer to Captain of King's frigate that he (Captain Ingerfield)
will, with much pleasure, hang any member of his ship's company that needs hanging, but that
neither the King of England nor any one else on God Almighty's sea is going to do it for him.
Captain of King's frigate sends back word that if objectionable person be not at once given
up he shall be compelled with much regret to send Ingerfield and his ship to the bottom of
the Atlantic.  Replies Captain Ingerfield, "That is just what he will have to do before I give
up one of my people," and fights the big frigate--fights it so fiercely that after three hours
Captain of King's frigate thinks it will be good to try argument again, and sends therefore
a further message, courteously acknowledging Captain Ingerfield's courage and skill, and suggesting
that, he having done sufficient to vindicate his honour and renown, it would be politic to
now hand over the unimportant cause of contention, and so escape with his treasure.

"Tell your Captain," shouts back this Ingerfield, who has discovered there are sweeter things
to fight for than even money, "that the Wild Goose has flown the seas with her belly full of
treasure before now, and will, if it be God's pleasure, so do again, but that master and man
in her sail together, fight together, and die together."

Whereupon King's frigate pounds away more vigorously than ever, and succeeds eventually in
carrying out her threat.  Down goes the Wild Goose, her last chase ended--down she goes with
a plunge, spit foremost with her colours flying; and down with her goes every man left standing
on her decks; and at the bottom of the Atlantic they lie to this day, master and man side by
side, keeping guard upon their treasure. 

      And graceful youth
    that the arena walking,
    and tertiary layer
    and round the fence.

      
    
    Middle third (Ill
    have third) cattle juros Absentee inherited.

      
    
    The present glories
    forgotten breed, moves made new tenderness.

      
    
    And while the absent
    moans, cries and sorrow,
    and sad accent sings
    his complaints: Cursed be those who trust a woman is left.

The intention that the singer gave the last verses was so hard, so soft accent and circumstances
so clear, that Mary, without being more inward, left hovering in his eyes the tears more tender
and more love and tenderness, but perhaps to turn his head, and finding Muley's angry view, that
neither an atom nor lose the edge of tears, such was the shock that the already overwhelmed as opposed
lover who felt frightened and confused as taking cruel faint, barely
had time to drop into the arms of the maidens around were.

With a leap he had made himself the foot of the beautiful bating gentleman,
if his will had not prevented a strong arm that held him, and succeeded
by fainting, and was preparing to get close to fainting.

- Who are
you? - Tiger voice shouted Muley -.

Who are you to come to disturb the celebrations of the main people, and set snares to the wives
of who is better than you?

- Who is to be - said the usurer, who wanted to know your love and cleverly beat mood - who must
be, but the noble knight Don Lope Zúñiga Guzmán Dávalos and Pacheco, richly in these parts
heir, lord of the villas Alchor and Ferreyra, Merino was of the Queen, King's page, the commander
of your third, dear Emperor, y. .. not heard more, as Muley, with
a boat who threw to Don Lope, began the most frightful din.

Don Lope, to be subjected, apostrophes, get free, drop out and put a dagger in hand, everything
was one, would not have escaped any serious injury to the furious
beat of Muley, not to wear a dress under a sharp smack clothes in
Milan.

Repaired and such a hit, the revolt ON or started since the Moors
to a voice saying:

- Please our prince Muley, Death to the Spaniards.

Don Lope, though without a sword, driving the dagger as alive and artfully, that right around the
person appeared to have opened wide moat in reaching its armed wing, which made him under cover
of the most spirited, but the wrath of Muley was shaking a lot, and their danger growing at
every moment. Old Christians who were there, prevented by the hand and not ready for such a revolt,
they could hardly get rid of the crowd Moorish and narrowness of
the place.

In this, they all went to work in an atom of time, heard the voice of the soldier, said:

- Brother Cigarral, the healing that began Mary, wrap the danger of my master.

And to say this, and throw in on crutches, and unwind with one hand
this eye sickly and grapple with each other, and throw that black
patch, and to throw down the bridge of a crutch, and take a terrible
sword and pull the other stick, and repeat one of the same steel was
made thing before hearing.

- In your help I am, and your hand I have,
Don Lope - said the soldier -, let us remember of Porma and closes
Spain.

With this, and therefore, those who seemed so bent members, convoluted and cramped, showed that
elasticity and vigor, that opening up the street with so much nonchalance as soldier bravery,
he rolled a coat on his arm he saw, without knowing how, next to the brave knight, and armed it
with one of those swords machine took the soldier.

Was to see, while the confused shouting, the pity of women, the paroxysms of these, the prayers of
those and the cries and sufferings of all. What fell, which hastened by catch theft doors,
seeking safety in flight, and what, they were most main, forming a circle around Mary, claimed
they wanted to divide a common fate, begging and pleading some other
that differs from other cases such as anger and fight.

Two swords as skilled and can handle soon tipped to win the Christian band. Muley, in spite of
all, it contained his own, repairs and improvements as more to story could, but an enemy, with whom
he had, placed at the mercy of their opponents. The rogue mutt, like I understood the danger
they were in theirs, or because they were trained also to play these pieces, this is that
since the beginning of the dance is not amused but to pass and repass, tangle and trip between
the feet of the Moors, knocking many, pregnant and trying not to just finally Muley prison, for traversing
much to the purpose behind the back of the Moor, when he broke in retreat, became entangled miserably
and fell to the ground without being able to recover.

All loaded on it, but their swords two opposites, and friendly guards,
freed him from all insult.

- Arise - Don Lope said.

- I do so -
said the mayor - but to surrender to the mercy of justice, and much
more since voices are coming Ferdinand Muley the coast of Barbary.

The Gerif, whose displeasure was so great principle revolt, and that more demonstrations that
he could not appease her, he wanted to bring their respect to excuse from prison to his nephew; but
all was in vain, because the suspect deals that were in rebellion, and surnamed Prince during
the scuffle, were not easy chapters amendment. However, the authority Don Lope reached that
Muley from attending as a prison in the home of the mayor, while he silenced one and could provide
for others.

Creek tasting and made boats, fendientes, lunges, slashes and Claymore of the revolt, was as
usual, be greater than the benefit saves, I mean it came down to not many of spades and four lift
head dents. The fear of offending women did not allow fighters strike with the wisdom that
had been used to measure body the body and in the open field. Notwithstanding this, few regrets
were felt so sad everyone thought he had the great misfortune happened, but no such duels and
lastimerías were more than the sobs of Bermúdez and cries of usury: the former, other touch I
had just lost, and that, by looking broken and stained in all the finery.

CHAPTER IV

It was the same time, was the proper place and one fronting the broken bridge, under the beautiful
walnut and right beside that fountain clear, he looked a man sitting,
but very different trace to the blind and crippled beggar with whom
we communicate knowledge to start of this story.

This character, on the contrary, seemed to enjoy the best agility of its members, was harder
as the years and virile, who arrived at forty, and with such samples of robustness and strength,
seeing that if it causes embarrassment and jump in front of you defend
a place or street, in exchange would make the more confident the world
who bring with them and look after next.

A well brought suede trousers and worn, but still good service, we took those legs, so before
heading and doodle, a colored breeches were attached to a robe soldiers, who came in half sleeves
in the middle of the arm, made wide turns with colorado tabi. The robe was closed on a strong and
robust doublet, which somewhat bulging back, concluded on the same wrist defending his arm.
A flange blue, if not bristling at least much glue, you encanutaba the neck, and a bell-crown
hat, trouser feathered, wide skirts, and they made four points ahead of softest silk with gold
out and put an end to such a figure. Super filisberta Toledo, was between his knees, leaning on
her hands, a dagger Flemish seemed at the waist, and its trace picaril and its degustation perverse
and evil, you judge any of the genealogy and lineage of the famous
Rinconetey Cortadillo.

Seated as he was well and softly, and this hoarse, and more leaning
to the bronco that to the gentle, amused himself singing this:

MORET

I
was born very poor, Oh what a pain!

        Well, I'm still
        poor, But this
    is today tomorrow.
    
        That he despises Value alive!, death in battle, At last luck crowned
him.

        
        
    Lid and war has Yes,
    living God, it runs
        the given and soldier Count to go.

        
        
    Navarro and others More
    than two!, soldiers
        were do rose by I will go.

        
        
    My King D. Carlos
    Into Paris! and
        God and him alone from pole to pole have to rule.

        
        
    And for prizes, Aniseed!,
    such bravery and
        God sends a couple of orbs.

        
        
    Captain Stand,
    Spanish bravo!,
        Pizarro looks a halberd failure to Peru.

        
        
    That what is true,
    Or lying in the
        sun!, a pica bravo, Oh illustrious out!, You know that.

        
        
    Go to the land.
    Here we go!, I will
        gold of a Moorish king I will conquer

O to top Be happy! so lucky,
a princess Marry me.

        
        
    I'll esclavillos,
    Ah, ah, la, la, ruby,
        topaz, four palaces and a large border.

        
        
    And nobleman Lara,
    lara! with primogeniture,
        of a surfeit finally die.

        
        
    By giving these songs,
    sung, as they say,
        a capella, without compass or help from any instrument, and only
with the good or bad company of his rough throat, hence hele sticking
out the top of the path an extremely gallant and brave knight, who
remains the same was presented last night to party, still bore now
with all the trappings of galas, Argentería feathers and convenient
to the kindness and quality of Don Lope de Zuniga.

        
        
    The blind and disabled
    without manquedad
        view, now newly restored throughout the value their legs and well
corrected and amended its members disengage and reach saw the gentleman,
bareheaded and ahinojándose hat reverently, he began to say:

- Sorry,
sorry, a thousand times pity for the good of Cigarral Mateo, itchy
soldier who was Francisco company of Carvajal in Italy, then in the
third harquebusier Zamudio, and then continued the illustrious person
of illustrious knight Don Lope de Zuniga.

I I confess, sir, that no amendment to the past mistakes to your order got paid one hundred
ducats Ghent the bourgeois Guillelmo waffle: confiésome also that without a mandate, or password
the master of the field or other superior, with more courage than discretion, the deal started,
usurping the title had no lord of them in that black suit and painted negotiated. Confiésome (And
is the worst confession) not attaching my consummate skill and experience,
I was broken up and given as a grant, that unless a piece of eight
they gave me cheap, God knows what was in my stomach, I mean me.

How, after so unhappy resubmitted day my sinful degustation? How do I take you to court so
my conscience dirty, clean and stark as martens hands? Crying my misfortune, remembering my many
merits, taking the award back, aching from the blows and goodbye
future in mind not only you, but those captives hundred ducats, as
mourned as lost, decided to return to Spain and seek game in the adventures
of the Indies.

Not paying fief to inns and taverns, not being so devoted to rosemary, and suspecting that my
Dress soldiers recruited me to living force for these flags of Italy, decided to take shelter
one of many costumes as I learned and studied with the noble knight in the industry. Long
were my wanderings, I have been assaulted curious adventures, and with them entertain you hours
of road travel or leisure, these sea or those on land, if they deserve attrition and contrition
for my timore et tremor, back to sit in their service and attend close to his illustrious person.
Always tell, with good fairness and equity, that contrary balance of these peccadilloes and
missteps, I bring into account and data, no services soldier, to reward you as you are not the
Emperor, but my good genius at the time you served, the welcome will you ever had and so many
sword and gave it to your side several occasions. Do not charge anything or shred recent appreciation
in his belt last night I cashed it unexpectedly health and healing that took place in my infirmity,
I take and I aim for good, legitimate and very solvency.

Who knows where it had been the nonsense, mockery and Flat bolts Cigarral soldier's Moya, if
D. Lope had not raised with the greatest affection, hugging and talking conmenzándole of his past
wanderings and adventures!

In short the story is that D. Lope Endon and forgave him the backward Cigarral trabacuentas, including
the bourgeois hundred ducats waffle, Lydia, and overcome in the black negotiated wood and paint,
concluding that ceremony that good maula entered the service again D. Lope.

Cigarral was added to it by which events, walk to Sevilla in search for the fleet Peru and
in languages ​​of their captain Carvajal, had come to this village, where his beggar disguise,
moving the pious condition of Mary, delayed one day to another day the pilgrimage to this
predicament.

- No doubting myself - went on the soldier - furnished an excuse for this evil thought events that
happened now, and without it being seen in a tilde offend the charity of Mary that the Waqf
extended to the disabled Cigarral intervened and valid at much merits
of D. Lope de Zuniga, because I do know, sir, beyond telling, lying
here, and forever altering the truth, as does every traveler, I managed
to name one of many novels your name and condition, and no doubt that
since then I deserved more attention and kindness, If I say no more
charity and alms, of that beautiful lady of your thoughts.

Luengo conferred the space formerly known and now again confirmed master and squire on ways to implement
an interview with Mary, and certainly his helmet, and closely Gerif
taken into custody by his uncle, since the events of the night.

The fantastic story and at this point, no purpose will be noted what circumstances had, and
what thoughts were encouraging more of these our main characters.

Don Lope, reached the Emperor's leave to bond with the illustrious as beautiful lady Maria de
Granada, and was in the galleys of Lewis and landed in Spain, did not think but being himself so nice
messenger new, and with little entourage and infinite hopes then wanted to go as the village where
he knew his beloved attend.

Fearing that the hatred of a proud family that dethroned him mock his aspirations and his love,
had tried to interest around the Emperor, who, meanwhile, watched with pleasure those links
revolt could remove all the shoots of the grains.

The Moors, always stare at their independence and revenge, they kept
their love of that family that had held for so many years in Spain
the faltering power of Granada Arab making the most beautiful city
in the world.

The discontent of the vanquished nation had its intercadencias as and that the policy of the
Court's flattered or oppressed; but it is true that ill-assorted with the religion they had
embraced the strength, senses with bundles and imposts that were breast, ordinances offended they
proclaimed, and angry with the arrogance of the victors, but did
not expect appropriate occasion to churn, It's tempting to neighboring
kingdoms of Africa, and the new and formidable power from Constantinople
threatened the entire Christian world.

Gerif, who reached on foot in their first few years the Lordship of
the Alhambra could not separate of memory that past glory, as neither
of his soul the most vehement passion for their nation unhappy, looking
very happy at the riots that his nephew was up to Muley.

Mary trembled with such appearances, as his mother, who drank the water of baptism that Archbishop
of Granada who was called by the Holy Praise the Moors, gave to his daughter the tenderest attachment
to the Christian religion. Committed to the love of D. Lope, and it was absent to the day Emperor
of Germany, an orphan living far from the palaces of Granada, cheering with his presence Gerif
tired old man's eyes.

Muley, captivated by the charms of his cousin, he himself had designed
and named in advance to award their hopes and crown of his work since
that would give the cry of independence, while knowing that nothing
would run best seen as the link to dabble more and more the will of
its Moorish.

Gerif, although I try not urged at all to Mary for the love of Muley,
with all While showing the pleasure they would see well together the
last offspring of the Pomegranate, as Christians say, or Benezeritas,
according to the Arab genealogists.

Don Lope, suspecting at least some of such capital ambushes, burned to be seen with Mary to paint
more vividly what he said on the ticket just reached their whitest pilgrims hands means that
we have already reported.

These and other like-minded, no more flattering and less suspicious, going through my head the
young knight during the symposium Cigarral, which is read by the sagacity squire the latter, without
delay spoke to his master in this way:

- Certainly, sir, very much agraviáis my high capacity and very little you have my witty Magin,
if you inquietáis for so little, let sorrow and know that the son
is held you know a good time to catch the beat.

Marie spent every day and this hour for this same place, coming from the orchards for recreation
has Gerif in these failures of the valley. If, as is presumed, seeing enemies in campaign, Gerif
resolved without being defensive very much abandon the walls of his
house and has brokers who churn up the estrada very closely, and if
overly fearful and cautious, determined to build bridges and rakes
and declare formal siege, I have already slipped through his own as
a spy, that very quickly inform us of any enemy movement.

The market certain young man, boy awake and awake, envisions the bars of Mary, and my mutt, which
has lead in this notice, is at this very moment where you would want to find you, that is, in the
eyes of the very high and very illustrious lady Dona Maria de la
Granada, awarded wife ... but hele, hele to do is our messenger, the
mutt, which will give us all languages.

  At first it lurks there unnoticed, battening upon the rich,
rank food it finds around it, until, grown too big to hide longer, it boldly shows its hideous
head, and the white face of Terror runs swiftly through alley and street, crying as it runs,
forces itself into John Ingerfield's counting-house, and tells its tale. John Ingerfield sits
for a while thinking.  Then he mounts his horse and rides home at as hard a pace as the condition
of the streets will allow. In the hall he meets Anne going out, and stops her.

"Don't come too near me," he says quietly.  "Typhus fever has broken out at Limehouse, and
they say one can communicate it, even without having it oneself.  You had better leave London
for a few weeks.  Go down to your father's: I will come and fetch you when it is all over."

He passes her, giving her a wide berth, and goes upstairs, where he remains for some minutes
in conversation with his valet.  Then, coming down, he remounts and rides off again.

After a little while Anne goes up into his room.  His man is kneeling in the middle of the
floor, packing a valise.

"Where are you to take it?" she asks.

"Down to the wharf, ma'am," answers the man: "Mr. Ingerfield is going to be there for a day
or two."

Then Anne sits in the great empty drawing-room, and takes her turn at thinking.

John Ingerfield finds, on his return to Limehouse, that the evil has greatly increased during
the short time he has been away.  Fanned by fear and ignorance, fed by poverty and dirt, the
scourge is spreading through the district like a fire.  Long smouldering in secret, it has
now burst forth at fifty different points at once.  Not a street, not a court but has its "case."
Over a dozen of John's hands are down with it already. Two more have sunk prostrate beside
their work within the last hour.  The panic grows grotesque.  Men and women tear their clothes
off, looking to see if they have anywhere upon them a rash or a patch of mottled skin, find
that they have, or imagine that they have, and rush, screaming, half- undressed, into the street.
Two men, meeting in a narrow passage, both rush back, too frightened to pass each other.  A
boy stoops down and scratches his leg--not an action that under ordinary circumstances would
excite much surprise in that neighbourhood.  In an instant there is a wild stampede from the
room, the strong trampling on the weak in their eagerness to escape.

These are not the days of organised defence against disease.  There are kind hearts and willing
hands in London town, but they are not yet closely enough banded together to meet a swift foe
such as this.  There are hospitals and charities galore, but these are mostly in the City,
maintained by the City Fathers for the exclusive benefit of poor citizens and members of the
guilds.  The few free hospitals are already over-crowded and ill-prepared.  Squalid, outlying
Limehouse, belonging to nowhere, cared for by nobody, must fight for itself.

John Ingerfield calls the older men together, and with their help attempts to instil some sense
and reason into his terrified people. Standing on the step of his counting-house, and addressing
as many of them as are not too scared to listen, he tells them of the danger of fear and of
the necessity for calmness and courage.

"We must face and fight this thing like men," he cries, in that deep, din- conquering voice
that has served the Ingerfields in good stead on many a steel-swept field, on many a storm-struck
sea; "there must be no cowardly selfishness, no faint-hearted despair.  If we've got to die
we'll die; but please God we'll live.  Anyhow, we will stick together, and help each other.
I mean to stop here with you, and do what I can for you.  None of my people shall want."

John Ingerfield ceases, and as the vibrations of his strong tones roll away a sweet voice from
beside him rises clear and firm:--

"I have come down to be with you also, and to help my husband.  I shall take charge of the
nursing and tending of your sick, and I hope I shall be of some real use to you.  My husband
and I are so sorry for you in your trouble.  I know you will be brave and patient.  We will
all do our best, and be hopeful."

He turns, half expecting to see only the empty air and to wonder at the delirium in his brain.
She puts her hand in his, and their eyes meet; and in that moment, for the first time in their
lives, these two see one another.

They speak no word.  There is no opportunity for words.  There is work to be done, and done
quickly, and Anne grasps it with the greed of a woman long hungry for the joy of doing.  As
John watches her moving swiftly and quietly through the bewildered throng, questioning, comforting,
gently compelling, the thought comes to him, Ought he to allow her to be here, risking her
life for his people? followed by the thought, How is he going to prevent it?  For in this hour
the knowledge is born within him that Anne is not his property; that he and she are fellow
hands taking their orders from the same Master; that though it be well for them to work together
and help each other, they must not hinder one another.

As yet John does not understand all this.  The idea is new and strange to him.  He feels as
the child in a fairy story on suddenly discovering that the trees and flowers has he passed
by carelessly a thousand times can think and talk.  Once he whispers to her of the labour and
the danger, but she answers simply, "They are my people too, John: it is my work"; and he lets
her have her way. 

The point was heard a chorus of screams and voices in all shades and all the discord that for such
and such cases have reserved the feminine pitch.

Suddenly came for slaves and black eunuchs of the harem and begin
to move in all directions with that agreement is usually in a hurry
trances.

For the older, and nearly blind for years, they were commanded to fall within the forest to
inquire and see the circumstances of this alleged catastrophe, the
lame are made haste to they were going to call the guards, and the
dumb requires them to go and tell Sultan the details of so much misery.
All was disorder, any confusion.
The older clerks stand staring aghast, feeling that the end of all things is surely at hand,
and that the universe is rushing down into space, until, their idleness being detected, they
are themselves promptly impressed for the sacrilegious work, and made to assist in the demolition
of their own temple.

Anne's commands are spoken very sweetly, and are accompanied by the sweetest of smiles; but
they are nevertheless commands, and somehow it does not occur to any one to disobey them. 
John--stern, masterful, authoritative John, who has never been approached with anything more
dictatorial than a timid request since he left Merchant Taylors' School nineteen years ago,
who would have thought that something had suddenly gone wrong with the laws of Nature if he
had been--finds himself hurrying along the street on his way to a druggist's shop, slackens
his pace an instant to ask himself why and wherefore he is doing so, recollects that he was
told to do so and to make haste back, marvels who could have dared to tell him to do anything
and to make haste back, remembers that it was Anne, is not quite sure what to think about it,
but hurries on. Of these, the main is Santa
Ana, in which area, and the masonry of the bridge itself, there are seats or stalls always full of
curious, warm nights in June and July, there's soaked perfumed and voluptuous atmosphere behind
them carries the current.

It was vacation, and my friend and colleague Don Carlos, closed and our gatherings, we we cited
in this site some time to get together, then rotate and roam other times the beam of the moon,
retire to our inn, to review the studies that we are so busily and
then we were worth so little.

One night (and very close to his departure for the summer with his parents) gave the twelve
without having gone to the usual place. Already I was beginning to take care for his tardiness,
when I saw them happier and more loudly than ever, and seizing my
hand the warmest affection, I apologized for his carelessness, and,
as always, to straighten our inn.

That night FUEM impossible to make any speech file of interest, let alone our academic work.

-
Studies for pleasure and not out of obligation - I said -. Do you think you will appreciate
our sleeplessness but excelled in college and achieve all the laurels of Minerva? If such happen,
how would the fools?, and already decided that they must always campear
around the world.

So saying - continued - from now on talks run through wise and therefore not anger, and since
we can not attract the dream, now forget the pandects and codes.

Saying this, he began to introduce their projects, which were greater
or more splendid if I had to hand a million pesos, and its future
acquisitions and for the estates I had to give, and inseparably trips
had to undertake, I stopped for crazy or like a man who amused himself
by fantasizing the hours of sleep and rest.

The next day, good morning, was already in his office, adding and
figuring amounts immense value, and yet to have on hand the money
his family sent him to travel, begged me to lend him three coins that
were of each other more in the same.

I replied that a few coins that he had not kept such a proportion, but to spend them that nothing
mattered to me very strange circumstances.

He got up without replying or an echo, and went through the house in demand for coins as pilgrims,
and soon returned saying:

- It is far nobody has been able to meet the taste, but the person
who least wanted; but the force has been content with their good work.

The old Carja gave me three coins the requirement that I ask: are three fold, the first of two pesos,
the second of four and the third of eight, and the latter must be also kept many decades has
it been since macuquino that is gold or cut.

And that taught me the double talk, that the reverse had the names of Ferdinand and Isabella.

-
The old Carja - said my comrade - however dulzaina display for me, always me is a bad omen since
the other day, some gypsy fortune-telling that know, I predicted that my tastes had to spoil
me by old hands, but in Case now I try not know what evil might induce.

We

parted on the evening and were, as always, above the bridge of Santa
Ana Arrival time, and had not given the room for twelve, when with
faltering steps and more melancholy air came up to me and taking me
by the hand, cold as hail, pulled me to the inn, going as confusing
as it scared me.

Sighs hurt me greatly, and touching the threshold of the door I said:

- What wonders will you know me!

Retired to our room, and I more curious than ever, and fearing the spirit Arriscado and adventures
of my friend, I sat on the edge of the bed and waited to start, as thus began his reasoning:

- Yesterday, the looming night, picked fresh from the last bridge that carries the Hazel and which
is also to give the path that leads to the back of the Alhambra. Solo site, and time by the
way, let me go on the wings of my wanderings, when a voice near me
on edge, I pulled off my dreams, saying: "Are you brave? Want to make
a fortune ?..." I turned my eyes and I found two steps using a soldier
rather than tall, with Morion crest, with ruff and blue dress, her
face not unpleasant, but pale and ashen and the voice deep and sad
but nothing unpleasant. He carried the sword of plywood shoulder,
and hand supported the pike dark, but very shining iron.

One day, rummaging over an old chest, he comes across a coloured picture- book of Bible stories.
He turns the torn pages fondly, remembering the Sunday afternoons of long ago.  At one picture,
wherein are represented many angels, he pauses; for in one of the younger angels of the group--one
not quite so severe of feature as her sisters--he fancies he can trace resemblance to Anne.
He lingers long over it.  Suddenly there rushes through his brain the thought, How good to
stoop and kiss the sweet feet of such a woman! and, thinking it, he blushes like a boy.

So from the soil of human suffering spring the flowers of human love and joy, and from the
flowers there fall the seeds of infinite pity for human pain, God shaping all things to His ends.

Thinking of Anne, John's face grows gentler, his hand kinder; dreaming of him, her heart grows
stronger, deeper, fuller.  Every available room in the warehouse has been turned into a ward,
and the little hospital is open free to all, for John and Anne feel that the whole world are
their people.  The piled-up casks are gone--shipped to Woolwich and Gravesend, bundled anywhere
out of the way, as though oil and tallow and the gold they can be stirred into were matters
of small moment in this world, not to be thought of beside such a thing as the helping of a
human brother in sore strait.

All the labour of the day seems light to them, looking forward to the hour when they sit together
in John's old shabby dining-room above the counting-house.  Yet a looker-on might imagine such
times dull to them; for they are strangely shy of one another, strangely sparing of words--fearful
of opening the flood-gates of speech, feeling the pressure of the pent-up thought.

One evening, John, throwing out words, not as a sop to the necessity for talk, but as a bait
to catch Anne's voice, mentions girdle-cakes, remembers that his old housekeeper used to be
famous for the making of them, and wonders if she has forgotten the art.

Anne, answering tremulously, as though girdle-cakes were a somewhat delicate topic, claims
to be a successful amateur of them herself.  John, having been given always to understand that
the talent for them was exceedingly rare, and one usually hereditary, respectfully doubts Anne's
capabilities, deferentially suggesting that she is thinking of scones. Anne indignantly repudiates
the insinuation, knows quite well the difference between girdle-cakes and scones, offers to
prove her powers by descending into the kitchen and making some then and there, if John will
accompany her and find the things for her.

John accepts the challenge, and, guiding Anne with one shy, awkward hand, while holding aloft
a candle in the other, leads the way.  It is past ten o'clock, and the old housekeeper is in
bed.  At each creaking stair they pause, to listen if the noise has awakened her; then, finding
all silent, creep forward again, with suppressed laughter, wondering with alarm, half feigned,
half real, what the prim, methodical dame would say were she to come down and catch them.

They reach the kitchen, thanks more to the suggestions of a friendly cat than to John's acquaintanceship
with the geography of his own house; and Anne rakes together the fire and clears the table
for her work.  What possible use John is to her--what need there was for her stipulating that
he should accompany her, Anne might find it difficult, if examined, to explain satisfactorily.
As for his "finding the things" for her, he has not the faintest notion where they are, and
possesses no natural aptitude for discovery.  Told to find flour, he industriously searches
for it in the dresser drawers; sent for the rolling-pin--the nature and characteristics of
rolling-pins being described to him for his guidance--he returns, after a prolonged absence,
with the copper stick. Anne laughs at him; but really it would seem as though she herself were
almost as stupid, for not until her hands are covered with flour does it occur to her that
she has not taken that preliminary step in all cooking operations of rolling up her sleeves.

She holds out her arms to John, first one and then the other, asking him sweetly if he minds
doing it for her.  John is very slow and clumsy, but Anne stands very patient.  Inch by inch
he peels the black sleeve from the white round arm.  Hundreds of times must he have seen those
fair arms, bare to the shoulder, sparkling with jewels; but never before has he seen their
wondrous beauty.  He longs to clasp them round his neck, yet is fearful lest his trembling
fingers touching them as he performs his tantalising task may offend her.  Anne thanks him,
and apologises for having given him so much trouble, and he murmurs some meaningless reply,
and stands foolishly silent, watching her.

Anne seems to find one hand sufficient for her cake-making, for the other rests idly on the
table--very near to one of John's, as she would see were not her eyes so intent upon her work.
How the impulse came to him, where he--grave, sober, business-man John--learnt such story-book
ways can never be known; but in one instant he is down on both knees, smothering the floury
hand with kisses, and the next moment Anne's arms are round his neck and her lips against his,
and the barrier between them is swept away, and the deep waters of their love rush together.

With that kiss they enter a new life whereinto one may not follow them. One thinks it must
have been a life made strangely beautiful by self-forgetfulness, strangely sweet by mutual
devotion--a life too ideal, perhaps, to have remained for long undimmed by the mists of earth.

They who remember them at that time speak of them in hushed tones, as one speaks of visions.
It would almost seem as though from their faces in those days there shone a radiance, as though
in their voices dwelt a tenderness beyond the tenderness of man.

They seem never to rest, never to weary. 

When the founder of your dynasty in these countries showed the latest chief Almohads they could not,
in the tocsin of those bloody events, hence the huge transport home treasures, treasures that they
had been eking and ever increasing Sultan sultan and dynasty dynasty, and by the inheritance and
conquests, and the arts and wonders of the occult sciences, which were well versed. In spite
of losing everything this empire that Fortune gave to your family in fraud of their own, the
chief Almohades invisible left all his treasures and wealth in underground houses these huge
castles and palaces, with such art and such cabalistic secrets that Suleiman only, or whoever
owns the ring, there may be at hand and grab both happy treasure.

This is the case that the HIAL wonderful necklace was formerly among
the treasures of Almohades, and while there was, by the prodigious
power and virtue of such a jewel, the rule and the chance of that
dynasty were increasing, not having begun to eclipse his glory to
extinction, which you know, but from the point for an adventure of
love, which case is not now entertain you with her, left the collar
of that family, and came into possession of yours, who has since started
to aggrandize in the current year and the Fortune favors.

For the Alafrit, which is stored in these treasures, which is flattering eternal family Almohades
and sworn enemy of yours, knows the virtues of wonderful necklace. According to the decrees
of the sages and wizards that linked it to the vigilant custody of such wealth by the formulas and
figures of the occult necromantic, expected to be in continuous stalking could offer timely
and worthwhile opportunity to return to possess the priceless jewel
the collar.

The Alafrit wanted this for the fortune to be free and open to the sentinel continuous, also
played with distinction for listening and watch tower three hundred years ago, and thus be able
to fly to the mountains of Kaf, its habitual residence.

This is the case that there is love with a girl of her kind, something few people, it has no more
than three farasangas the ankle to the front, but not ugly. His nose is well delighted and tornátil
and the Giralda in Esbilia, his eyes are somewhat slanted, but each will be greater than the
Bay of Ghadir, their eyebrows are two beautiful forests of oak and
brambles, and all other adherents of this tenor.

The girl wants to marry, the Alafrit another such, and your foresight has brought the soup to
honey, the bite of the mouth.

You should know that this beautiful necklace, hope for your future, and has been home the greatness
of your family, makes it perfect balance and form, inseparable, with your famous Dul-Cahir
cutlass, which was a while the victorious sword of Ali, Allah bless
them If you had led necklace, if HIAL even take the cutlass, and you
thought to separate you from your side, the disaster did not take
place, but you left, or, rather, aside for a moment Dul-Cahir to the
collar, and the occasion was presented to Alafrit by the forelock,
then he was not or foolish, or grab one arm to stop a good way.

It was he who sent the blue butterfly to provoke a slave Encirnún HIAL and to hunt and chase that
deviate of his entourage and entourage, and approach suitable site for the start.

About this I remember, my brother Mohamad, forgetting that you have stumbled as monarch about the
beautiful Encirnún, slave, which can be queen anywhere where cult of beauty. The Alafrit, saw her
as if with one hand gripped the collar, with the other engarfió the beautiful blind, fond
of her comely figure as you could so if you find playing among the flowers with a esclavillos
sizes as pins. Jayan think that this so cute take the lady that she is granted in the mountains
Kaf, that riding on his ear Encirnún left, the gently scrape with
a hoe that side of the head, an operation that flatters very sweetly.

Encirnún resigned himself certainly a big failure, as should any slave who falls for his guilt
in a situation so sad, but either I'm much mistaken, or this girl has to get crazy to noble-Hasam
Nachum, the genius who saved the Alafrit treasures, and will not be surprising that a slave
becomes Queen of the Fairies. This, moreover, would be nice to you, brother, Mohamad, as well 'd
hope to regain your necklace for the good affection of the slave, for I warn my brother, that your
family is missing a wonderful gem, this talisman of such virtue, sooner or later has to lose the
empire. But back to HIAL.

Píntate in your imagination, brother Mohamad, what would be your wife the beautiful and tender suddenly
see before him the giants of the huge misshapen Alafrit its height, almost double that of the bride,
whose description I have done, with his eyes like, each Belet the pen, if you were burning with
brimstone, with the burners on their noses equal two lime steaming and boiling, with its two
legs of Solomonic figure, each consisting of two huge serpents coiled, with his beard woven scrubs
and ancient roots trees, and other charms of this sort. The girl had expired at the point, if
the powerful under the collar had not attended.

The necklace resisted in part the fascination that infernal demon, but the point was taken as
the white neck, HIAL fell, not dead, but it vanished in deep pinnacle, but keeping the faint
inside knowledge.

In short, HIAL, when not sleeping in the same fading that is submerged, hears, understands and knows.
All other powers of his mind on hold, but achieving come back to tame course cheering gifts that
child, and divine existence, is difficult, near impossible, but in the hands is the timbrel,
Mohamad brother, well I know it ring.

If we were to hand a pen pink birds flying in paradise, only to flatter her nose a little snow
on the faint, sneeze three times and woke up happy and saved as an
unpleasant dream, but as this is not possible, will force a choice
between remaining two remedies alone.

If you want, brother, Mohamad, see the girl enter these lounges, dancing and bounded about
like a blue Houri, made with fresh pink cheeks, and two suns for eyes, singing like a nightingale
and chattering like a grown woman, let me take her for three days ...

- That's not - answered the Sultan.

- That no! That no! - Ben-Farding
said something angrily -.

Well, then, the cure shall in all form, that is, it will be long and tedious. It is therefore necessary,
if you want, brother Mohamad, HIAL is conducted every morning half an hour before the sun dawns own
site, next to that fountain and lush pear below it, where it was found fainted after the disaster.
There will be given to smell, in shaded clusters, all Generalife flowers, and still bring it closer
to the lips of pear fruit and streams of the source for such aromas and as gifted as simple
delicacies produced in the beautiful Sultana the magical effect I suppose. Then, in the same
place, forming a purse silk cushions and pillows, and carpeting the
ground with Alcatifa of Persia, so that the HIAL can hear the pretty
little, stories will have paths like that that can best or know the
slaves, slaves or people who excel in such enviable pilgrim talent.

If stories or stories that are told are so wonderful and wonders,
and gives some faint beautiful sign of admiration, or whether the
tragic and pathetic they pull a tear, or being of witticisms and jokes
move the heavenly smile of HIAL, HIAL is saved, and little by little
come to herself giving a little sigh and half opening his eyes dove.

At your informal care, the good will of these heroic wise to me here listen, my servants or porters
chair, and, above all, the great art of pleasing Abu-el-casino Guard captain African touches and
concerns exhume them, seek and find many of those recounted of jadices and stories, or novels
or tragic holiday storytellers, and out of them anyone who knows of the wonders of his story,
thanks for your words or the galas of his invention and salts of its jokes, put into play as delicate
sensitive powers simpa mood of HIAL.

And with that I say goodbye, I live far

brother Mohamad, by now grace the ceremonies and procession with me here led, and the scaffolding,
harnesses, chariot and shots that I porter, who is already sick madness going on slopes of
wisdom.

Ben-Farding saying this, jumped from his huronera, gave three or four a run around the room,
nincompoop and sprat shook the dazzled Wazir, Kadis, and officers of couch, and whiz went the
Alhambra, as Bozzo fired by strong arm of well-tempered crossbow.

Arabic novel [2]

FIRST LETTER

OF A VELID NAZARÉ Abenza

    
    You bathed in the dew of pleasure, and your friend covered in dust
and sweat on the border!

You won by a woman, and your friend triumph of the Spaniards!

When I booted up on your side for mayor of Zahara [3], you promised
me cum to me before Zefar's moon [4], and two months have flown no
see.

They tell me that Lecrín Valley [5] got off to Grenada with intent to go with a band of riders
on the journey without your help come to end. But instead of seeing to the front of your knights,
I hear you at the feet of a woman. Outside her more beautiful than that captivated Abdalazis, you
should you leave your friend, your brother, for glory, finally, by
order so mean!

But who is? What is your name?

How do you see? ... Because I've offended your abandonment Do you want to offend more with your
guilty silence and reserve criminal?

When the danger is past, and the inputs and riots in the land of the Christians keep even better
time, for evil is more painful force to give men some encouragement and rest. So my confidence
bordering on sleep until the awakening of iron and fire in the flowers of spring. So, enjoy
your youth first green paradise in the city, and I find with your brave to Delhex Moon [6], typical
for war.

Enjoy life, dear Velid, investigating the stay of your beauty, throw
it and pursue it in mazes will know pawn, it will find more pleasure
than suing the deer by the cliffs of Jorail [7], but your heart was
always clean, undamaged and the glory and friendship are the only
jewels that must fill glass so precious.

Allah keep you. Alcazar de Zahara, in 9 of legumes [8].

THE SAME TO THE SAME

The Ali of Haquin, your messenger, I handed the letter in which I realize the disease Abunazar
and your father's pleas and sentences that have squandered to appease
the angry angel death.

How well I know in your loving concern, your informal care for whom you being given, the generous
spirit and fire that encourages you!

Although I was forced to spend a year with no hold, however well done what would entendiéndote
employee obligations as sacred.

Do not marvel that the king Ismael takes so on their The bad heart
father was saved twice by him, one in the field and one in the riots
the Alhambra, and both aspired to nothing, content with their lands
and his castle Lerín hereditary.

However, force is to the stars playing in favor of yielding sublime recovery and recreation
for the garden of Alijares [9], royal residence and all delight. What peaceful hours've liked
by those trees, reasoning with your good father, hearing the language of the birds or perhaps
the roses growing in Egypt or Persia the tulip!

Force was so delicious that you care harden the occasion of love, but in your letter, imposing
often than you judge for more substantial, shut up, perhaps with malice, the relationship more interesting
for your friend. You say you love and idolize you, you entered the palace of love through the door
of mystery that will not change your status by Kingdom of Fez ... But in the end, will not respond
to my questions: Who is it, how do you see?, Where is it? The companion of your childhood,
your friend begs you Abenza.

Although the few years that I have but you do not make me leave the old boy yet not lived in
vain. Before your visit to Granada early experience of my youth, I bought in exchange for endless
troubles, and this gives me authority over you that you will be disregarded foolish and not showing
the dangerous path where you walk. Goodbye.

A LETTER VELID Abenza

To you forward in the effort, the beautiful young men, comfort and friend of a friend. Velid Nazar,
greets you, brave Abenza:

Only your letters would wake up happy sleep of pleasure in which I
live, but waking up I am in the arms of other feelings even sweeter,
which is friendship, "sweeter I? "Whether I uttered a profanity?

My heart can serve as a ring and eternal union a nature so heavenly! You want to know the beginning
of this madness ... they hear the story.

An afternoon stroll with my father through the streets of spacious orchard fruit where we dwell,
and that the King gave his old friend to the relief of their illness, and recreation in your
sorrow.

On one side stood the towers of the Alhambra, and closer to the high spire Generalife [10] reflecting
the rays of the sun, weakened in the white peaks of Belet and Muley Hacen [11].

My father left me alone for those orchards, I ran vanished and dreaming
of the time to rush towards you, dear friend.

In these thoughts perhaps I started to sing, as usual, the melancholy of the singers letrillas
Cairo and Cordoba, about to pass fronting the palace of Generalife. Then I saw ajimez highest
open and close uncertainly two or three times without anyone appearing on the chest, until finally
he soltáronse several pigeons fluttering whimsically by the ramparts of the walls and the buds of trees,
little or no imagination that moved me the chance, I took it for innocent fun of a captive or
a slave unhappy unhappy. Followed, then, my back and recogíme flowers in the box that I enjoy
growing a sad and sweet abandon that inspires a serene afternoon sounding living water and the
delicious green of birch and hazel.

I sat down then, and poppy eyes to enjoy pleasure so soft, I felt
between leaves something happened and seethed: curious sight lay around,
and saw, astonished, a mullioned window of doves softly mysterious
haunted me almost to kiss me with his pen, not be embarrassed by my
presence.

And more careful, I began to flatter her with my voice, pretending its coo, when to my utter
amazement I look standing on my shoulders, bringing outstanding neck with a ribbon color of
Lily, a ticket collected and soaked with delicate folds aromas of roses. I untied (flew the dove)
and I see the most beautiful kufic these flattering and mysterious reasons:

"Beautiful sun, the pristine charm and delight of watching your eyes, be quiet and listen my voice:
a kinder houri the paradise of the believers is burned in a fire for you purer than the light from
the east, and silent suffering, and sighs for you: when you approach
it stained with the color of the desert rose, and if you talk, your
heart beats like leaves from trees when approaching the storm, his
voice is soft like frankincense from Ethiopia their eyes are a gazelle,
shy and live in an own point, and feel of its members is thin cashmere
fabrics.

Deserves to be yours, because it deserves the Saudi kingdom, and you must be yours, because
you are virtuous. His love is hidden in the urn of decorum: it out, since, as the pearl of Hormuz
out of the shell nacre, and be happy.

"If you do not love, she will die as the flower of sand, look for it and discover it, and take
these signals for recognition. The beginning and end of their name is the Aleph [12]. His tribe
is king of Yemen [13], when you look and you do not see, her eyes moist and hesitant as the
waters Piélago the wounds of the sun.

"Heaven preserve you, beautiful girl, and enjoy more happiness than Betmendí [14]. Keep secret
as its arcane nature and his deep sea depths. Goodbye, goodbye, do not think is all that seems
frivolous such. Goodbye.

The Queen of the Fairies. "

Oh, dear Abenza!

    Leaves or flowers when they break the corolla, are so numerous or
as vivid hues and diverse as the thoughts that my chest opened the
imaginations love, when I finished drink up the reasons mysterious
enchanted ticket.

A seething fire spinning through my head, and an opium the sweetest
ladies all my being: my those pretty eyes were still drawn characters
with gold and blue, and my mind, launched and in the path of illusions,
the shadows ran quickly after misleading havens Air: Abenza oh, what
been so heavenly!

Arranquéme finally that dream of delight, and curiosity led me out of the room where I was hiding,
to haunt the windows and towers Generalife find myself imagining
other most significant signs of my happiness.

All was in vain: the darkness of the night overcame and the evening twilight, and moon, suspended
in the heavens and golden lamp, threw its rays before the giant shadows of the cubes and paintings
from the wall.

In those orchards nothing is heard but the sound of the waterfalls
or the whistles of blackbirds and nightingales who sought the nest
between the willow and honeysuckle, for the battlements nothing crossing,
and only looked doubtfully shine some light on this or that in the
lofty mullioned dressing rooms of the palace: Abenza oh, what anticipation!

What concerns! The falcon hears his side of the heron flying and be unable to see, hidden by
a cloudscape, have no more suffering.

My imagination was forged thousand delirious visions of the impossible, which is enjoyed in
defeat at will, and uploaded pleasure and adorned with the magical
colors of the desires, painted my last term in this fantastic picture.

But do not think that the embittered missing in this my first sip
from the chalice of love, no, Abenza; pain absinthe treacherously
slips between the lips of youth, and this sentence of yours as long
as an omen sounded in my ears.

Scoffed at the idea of ​​finding the nuncio of my fortune, I fell
in other such strange thoughts, that even I was right to explain them,
and even with much effort I can descifrártelos in partly because there
are things that you can not express them as feel them.

I thought then that the dove, auditorium of love, so rare that if
placed in my hands ticket flight could have done another lover, and
I unfortunately fortunate innocent would have intercepted the mail
and surprised a secret so lovingly interesting.

So jealous of this that even unknown to me, jealous of a rival imaginary frenzy against unknown
beauty who could love other than me, gave me all the ravings the fury, as if there were really
for my hurt an unfaithful wife and a loving choice.

Dildo breath the atmosphere of the night, soaked with scented flowers, and fresh the banks of
the Darro, calmed down my forehead and tempered the ardor of my weary
brow.

How presumed why I envy the love of others more fortunate, who could reward the sky with them their
virtues, and the Prophet his courage and constancy?

Abenza Oh!, It showed these reasons, the clearer understanding my
worried mind, but never succeeded in extracting from it the first
seal of anger, or do not know what other feelings indefinable.

Does the human heart is always set as the center of the universe, and to judge that all ideas
of grandeur, beauty, sublime, must go to him alone? Will I, vain and proud (I am ashamed to
say), I believed with the right only in the world the love of that beauty invisible, just as my
imagination painted her with gifts so heavenly? Or, dear Abenza, the power of this blood that
burned in Saudi encourages my heart, will, like in all our tribe, the fatal gift of light from
the faintest idea of ​​love rave horrible volcano and jealousy? What would I have you given next
to me in those moments of longing and sorrow, and find comfort in your tips and best experience?

But
it was in vain, the solitude was my only company, do not hide that on the wings of my thoughts
coming, which iris comforter, more flattering hope to dispel those anger.

I could not give perhaps the uncertain number of mullioned windows
open, the wandering of the pigeons and hovered around me that the
bar and the letter.

Embedded in these ramblings, and more lover who never flower box where they had a scene so flattering,
I turned to enjoy its freshness, at that point further enhanced with
gentle streams of light that the moon All your hard packed, poured
from between the festoons of green that was so florida mansion.

Oh dear friend! That was for me the day of illusions, still wandering in my fancy so contrary
thoughts, not knowing how many hours of the night would run, when I another appearance no less
strange than the first.

And CATUR ALICAK

O THERE ARE MANY AS TWO MINISTERS

Shall be removed from his sad sorrow, but never evil for their wickedness.

Arabic

    sentence.
    

    Caleb rode gently in a magnificent Egyptian donkey, heading for the
route, from Esbilia, the right guide to the city of Cordoba, the Caliph
then purple.

In proportion as the walking distance is shortened, the donkey showed himself very light and toddler,
as if the smell of a large population and famous court will announce the next meeting some
individuals of his large family.

The ass, I say, so calm itching and a pasitrote so calm and smooth
that the rider, giving your fancy, I was saying in his mind this way:

"In
schools Cuf few equals, and none stood out on my reputation: I know
for the Suras semicolons [15] of the Koran, the Sunna decisions [16]
and those of Cadiz.

  I stood
   rooted to the spot, staring at her across the yawning gorge that
   divided us; and slowly she moved away, and passed into the gloom, and
   I continued my way.  I have said nothing to Muriel, and shall not.  The
   effect the story has had upon myself warns me not to do so."

From a letter dated eleven days later:

   "She has come.  I have known she would, since that evening I saw her
   on the mountain; and last night she came, and we have sat and looked
   into each other's eyes.  You will say, of course, that I am mad--that
   I have not recovered from my fever--that I have been working too
   hard--that I have heard a foolish tale, and that it has filled my
   overstrung brain with foolish fancies: I have told myself all that.
   But the thing came, nevertheless--a creature of flesh and blood? a
   creature of air? a creature of my own imagination?--what matter? it
   was real to me.

   "It came last night, as I sat working, alone.  Each night I have
   waited for it, listened for it--longed for it, I know now.  I heard
   the passing of its feet upon the bridge, the tapping of its hand upon
   the door, three times--tap, tap, tap.  I felt my loins grow cold, and
   a pricking pain about my head; and I gripped my chair with both hands,
   and waited, and again there came the tapping--tap, tap, tap.  I rose
   and slipped the bolt of the door leading to the other room, and again
   I waited, and again there came the tapping--tap, tap, tap.  Then I
   opened the heavy outer door, and the wind rushed past me, scattering
   my papers, and the woman entered in, and I closed the door behind her.
   She threw her hood back from her head, and unwound a kerchief from
   about her neck, and laid it on the table.  Then she crossed and sat
   before the fire, and I noticed her bare feet were damp with the night
   dew.

   "I stood over against her and gazed at her, and she smiled at me--a
   strange, wicked smile, but I could have laid my soul at her feet.  She
   never spoke or moved, and neither did I feel the need of spoken words,
   for I understood the meaning of those upon the Mount when they said,
   'Let us make here tabernacles: it is good for us to be here.'

   "How long a time passed thus I do not know, but suddenly the woman
   held her hand up, listening, and there came a faint sound from the
   other room.  Then swiftly she drew her hood about her face and passed
   out, closing the door softly behind her; and I drew back the bolt of
   the inner door and waited, and hearing nothing more, sat down, and
   must have fallen asleep in my chair.

   "I awoke, and instantly there flashed through my mind the thought of
   the kerchief the woman had left behind her, and I started from my
   chair to hide it.  But the table was already laid for breakfast, and
   my wife sat with her elbows on the table and her head between her
   hands, watching me with a look in her eyes that was new to me.

   "She kissed me, though her lips were cold; and I argued to myself that
   the whole thing must have been a dream.  But later in the day, passing
   the open door when her back was towards me, I saw her take the
   kerchief from a locked chest and look at it.

   "I have told myself it must have been a kerchief of her own, and that
   all the rest has been my imagination; that, if not, then my strange
   visitant was no spirit, but a woman; and that, if human thing knows
   human thing, it was no creature of flesh and blood that sat beside me
   last night.  Besides, what woman would she be?  The nearest saeter is
   a three-hours' climb to a strong man, and the paths are dangerous even
   in daylight: what woman would have found them in the night?  What
   woman would have chilled the air around her, and have made the blood
   flow cold through all my veins?  Yet if she come again I will speak to
   her.  I will stretch out my hand and see whether she be mortal thing
   or only air."

The fifth letter:

   "MY DEAR JOYCE,--Whether your eyes will ever see these letters is
   doubtful.  From this place I shall never send them.  They would read
   to you as the ravings of a madman.  If ever I return to England I may
   one day show them to you, but when I do it will be when I, with you,
   can laugh over them.  At present I write them merely to hide
   away,--putting the words down on paper saves my screaming them aloud.

   "She comes each night now, taking the same seat beside the embers, and
   fixing upon me those eyes, with the hell-light in them, that burn into
   my brain; and at rare times she smiles, and all my being passes out of
   me, and is hers.  I make no attempt to work.  I sit listening for her
   footsteps on the creaking bridge, for the rustling of her feet upon
   the grass, for the tapping of her hand upon the door.  No word is
   uttered between us.  Each day I say: 'When she comes to-night I will
   speak to her.  I will stretch out my hand and touch her.'  Yet when
   she enters, all thought and will goes out from me.

   "Last night, as I stood gazing at her, my soul filled with her
   wondrous beauty as a lake with moonlight, her lips parted, and she
   started from her chair; and, turning, I thought I saw a white face
   pressed against the window, but as I looked it vanished.  Then she
   drew her cloak about her, and passed out.  I slid back the bolt I
   always draw now, and stole into the other room, and, taking down the
   lantern, held it above the bed.  But Muriel's eyes were closed as if
   in sleep."

Extract from the sixth letter:

   "It is not the night I fear, but the day.  I hate the sight of this
   woman with whom I live, whom I call 'wife.'  I shrink from the blow of
   her cold lips, the curse of her stony eyes.  She has seen, she has
   learnt; I feel it, I know it.  Yet she winds her arms around my neck,
   and calls me sweetheart, and smoothes my hair with her soft, false
   hands.  We speak mocking words of love to one another, but I know her
   cruel eyes are ever following me.  She is plotting her revenge, and I
   hate her, I hate her, I hate her!"

Part of the seventh letter:

   "This morning I went down to the fiord.  I told her I should not be
   back until the evening.  She stood by the door watching me until we
   were mere specks to one another, and a promontory of the mountain shut
   me from view.  Then, turning aside from the track, I made my way,
   running and stumbling over the jagged ground, round to the other side
   of the mountain, and began to climb again.  It was slow, weary work.
   Often I had to go miles out of my road to avoid a ravine, and twice I
   reached a high point only to have to descend again.  But at length I
   crossed the ridge, and crept down to a spot from where, concealed, I
   could spy upon my own house.  She--my wife--stood by the flimsy
   bridge.  A short hatchet, such as butchers use, was in her hand.  She
   leant against a pine trunk, with her arm behind her, as one stands
   whose back aches with long stooping in some cramped position; and even
   at that distance I could see the cruel smile about her lips.

   "Then I recrossed the ridge, and crawled down again, and, waiting
   until evening, walked slowly up the path.  As I came in view of the
   house she saw me, and waved her handkerchief to me, and in answer I
   waved my hat, and shouted curses at her that the wind whirled away
   into the torrent.  She met me with a kiss, and I breathed no hint to
   her that I had seen.  Let her devil's work remain undisturbed.  Let it
   prove to me what manner of thing this is that haunts me.  If it be a
   spirit, then the bridge wilt bear it safely; if it be woman--

   "But I dismiss the thought.  If it be human thing, why does it sit
   gazing at me, never speaking? why does my tongue refuse to question
   it? why does all power forsake me in its presence, so that I stand as
   in a dream?  Yet if it be spirit, why do I hear the passing of her
   feet? and why does the night-rain glisten on her hair?

   "I force myself back into my chair. 

Among the crowd of those beautiful oriental gay, and damask cushions are Zaida was Mary or,
as the Moors named it jealous, and she looked at a stem of their past kings. Mary only neglected
to shave of his eyes, and in contempt as idle or because Fiasa more in the power of their own.

At the bottom, and separated entirely from what they call heaven on earth young men were decorated
with rich embroidery and all the Eastern ataujía.

The Anafil and drums, the drums sounded albogues and joyfully around the room: some youths and had
shown his skill testing assaults and dances that were both of naturalness
Arabic, Spanish and of gallantry.

Mary's cousin, Muley to the Moors and the Spanish Don Fernando, as if disdaining employed in
such a frivolous pastime, pull up a serving of the colonnades, not thinking but in their projects,
and only seemed to assist in the zambra by the eagerness with which shed sometimes seen in
the beautiful Mary.

The youth, winning by his wealth to those around him, stood out as gentle stature, towering
over the advantaged at the very top of head.

For this purpose we came to the door broken, and there found two Castilian and spoke:

- No doubt, friend John, but this zambra has more appearance than usual and ordinary. It sounds
that a principal boy has landed at the bays of the coast, coming from Barbary, and that is
this good coming feast and Zambra.

A faith to faith that is not yet and an old Christian, and how are
they to come if not called?

And how are they to be called, if the disbelievers want to be alone for their practices and
machinations? Come on, brother, you as sheriff, and I as a person of authority from the people, we
must give account of all the Mayor of our City.

And the party, and repairing the soldier, said the other:

- This Cigarral all assaults and all are reported: it is, and will receive a thousand wonders, in the
absence of other witchcraft, or the mob may provide good skills your mutt.

Meanwhile, the spoiled entered, followed by his dog, and not ward
off the evil eye and sobreojo that many looked at him, dropped their
sticks and sat on the floor between the inferior people family, putting
on his knees trench the dog, who settled with great composure on his
legs, rested on the neck by lifting the front paws, lifting ears and
looking carefully at his benefactress Mary, who greeted his best,
moving softly tail.

Perhaps the grateful dog had greeted most notably from a distance and despite of the party, if
not feel the hand of his master, who sent him as quiet accounts and silence, and then everything
was quiet.

Mary smiled softly when they saw the soldier he pleased with that
distinction, down head humbly bowed so courteously as and when raising
it met the Muley view, looking at him with eyes of scorn and a poorly
suppressed anger, but the soldier, with great irritation of some and
the greatest wonder of all, did not flee his face so fierce look,
rather the evil caused to his gesture and seducer.

Perhaps the zambra been troubled from that point, except for Mary,
leaving beat from time to beg and plead so much, do not press the
guitar and sing beautifully, so soft and expressive, as follows:

ROMANCE

In
a spirited sorrel, between brave and brambles, fleeing, fleeing Jarifa,
group goes with his Zaide.

      
    The horse is happy, van happy
    lovers: the horse, and go
    jumping; two, to go to enjoy themselves.

      
    
    Ride the two, ride between dark
    and brambles, whoever walks with theft uses of hidden paths.

      
    
    Go around the beach escape
    the hatred of a father to lie in a skiff Tlemcen and repaired.

      
    
    And reach the highest peak,
    and the seas are blue, are already rocking the candles think and
tread the ship.

      
    
    Look, look, said the Moor;
    Look, my darling, come what inquiring our tracks Algarve riders.

      
    
    Fear not, she replies; Fear not,
    my love, my Zaide, that I attend a charm here I pay the two to save
us.

      
    
    It is a wonderful bar, fadado
    with such fate, two that he adhere some are invisible.

      
    
    Let's try, Zaide, let's try;
    we use magic arts, and their senseless research our executioners
were tired.

      
    
    Unfold the strip Jarifa, He
    is tied with her lover when ready, oh, how awful!, see a snake loose.

      
    
    The fiery dragon wraps, The black bunched
    up nooses chest to oppress feet and captivate.

      
    
    Wary that such bar made to
    the parent Jarifa so there is death where their tastes seek.

      
    
    Comes the king angry, vibrating
    the bloody cutlass He opened the chest and Jarifa and neck divided
Zaide.

      
    
    The uproar in the congratulations
    and cheers was great, the instruments echoes and redoubled their
blessings showered on maiden so beautiful, so crowned and flatter
accomplished with few skills the senses and captivate the soul.

The soldier could not resist the admiration as he moved this room
and that wealth beyond his imagination gave all the best and richest
things in the world he had seen, and to himself said:

"These Moors
give them water, and vegetables will draw you a rock, give them vegetables,
and give you a garden and gardens and there I will raise an idea where
it is alhambra you fancy the asking.

They say that their paradise is only Verjel but in the meantime, and what can happen, their homes
but not so many havens. Disbelievers! And we always Astros without a tree where the shade and
enjoy the freshness!

As he imagined it, a loose youth danced in the middle of the most gallant siege possible. Struck
the ground so gently, that it seemed that slid by on the pavement, or some invisible strings holding
him up and swung him to the sound of music. With the right hand showed a adufe mixed with
colored ribbons, and crimping thousand babes and sounding bells and
cymbals, corresponded, and alive, and smoothly, harmony of the musicians.

Sometimes the dancer, in the midst of his career, passed and repassed slightly adufe below the
shoulders, threw him desperately sometimes by men, and as if it were tied to the will of the
boy, he always came into the hands clean and gallant. The eyes were lost in so many wheels,
bias and turns, unwittingly they all followed the rhythmic movement of that danced, and all still in
their seats, still cheating fantastically, believing each to be the dancer, not real and certainly
that had dance.

Each one of that contest, as beautiful as suitors, was given to content of all samples met, those
of his thanks and those of their skills, and always cheering cordially all the soldier as if
he had more pleasure in it, as well as collecting those visual elements arcaduz shrunk by one
eye only, and it also crippled and sickly. But it also had to take public square and amphitheater,
as there are those who divined the good graces of the mutt, jokes
and jingles master recounting all They urged the spoiled to amuse
the party, unable to excuse it from time to pray, and demand and profit
that could have, and for some idea that bubbled in his head.

"

The fact is that everything was done on that advice and consultation Lope ticket black and to see
how it could get a real collection, as and the desire of its owner.

According to the fervor and earnestness with which the soldier drew this plot, it seemed to have some
close obligation that led him to it, but, they want it to be, it is true that requested the
vihuela, agreed and after the clapping and giving your mutt, it began
to jump in a good way and love to play for the school most extreme
in the world, was the King of France, the greetings to the Emperor,
kissing the most beautiful plants, which were pointing to wedding
and other pleasantries of that opinion.

In all the graces of mutt looked a preference noted for its benefactress Mary having no back where
it displayed no submission or happy when it passed the beautiful Moorish. When marked by the most
beautiful one stood attention to it, because each in its imagination approved the same, and it
was easy to imagine that the mutt was already trained in the charm, but when also said to be
a wedding, and as wanting to escape it as looking for another on whom to signaling, and not
finding her, turned to Mary, and finally said, then left the mutt
groaned so pitiful, that bristled hair to the contest.

But this impression was fleeting as lightning in calm night; well spent as it was entirely
forgotten in the memory.

The soldier, calling it the dog, he continued:

- Now, don mutt, you can be a messenger of love, a profession that requires skills test and
degree of loyalty, care trocar brakes, which are often neglected so pitiful come big mistakes,
and it should be your good name safe charge and responsibility. Take the baton, and duration of your
trip as both music and lyrics of your master.

And this saying, and passing his hand over his mouth as if you put an something in it, and
then bending his ear to commission something, let it go, holding it to the vihuela, which,
deftly strumming, singing with her.

Motet

Messenger run and see, runs and looks ready and cunning, and absent
knight Bring his love sincere ticket.

          
          Not far away,
    very faithfully, much more
    faithful to your advice:
          Looking
          forward reflections
    of a carnation left from vases and mirrors.

          
          
    The mutt running frantically
    around the revelers, took
          three laps,
          and the
    third, ceased when the mantra of his master, jumping in front of
Mary, causing caresses her with his witticisms and games will not
rest until those white foam hands and ermine compliments on her figure
should come dog, and then, as if it had a superior instinct nature
(much can art), dropped it and deposited in the hands of the maid
the ticket that many anxieties and aspirations had started to different
people.

Mary, who very well understand the intelligence of singing, and that not a single word of it let
go of his memory, seeing the signs about dog discrete, recalling that at that same time he was
should have news of his absent, feeling at that point a paper in his hands, and, above all, feeling
up in his soul a thousand hopes for happy and taste, could not resist
taking that message, and what is more, take unawares and without giving
anyone suspected.

The storm reached its discretion would have raised if the stormy conditions in the first,
and naturally suspicious of the man, and hatred of all Moriscos to their conquerors, had come
to join a suspicion, checked the point with the complete proof of a ticket.

Muley and Don Fernando (for either of these two names are not given to nor detracts from the rigorous
and proud of their status) remained with the soul, not with the eyes, the whole course of that
farce, and if it is true that if you did not see the pressing of the ticket at the mouth of the
mutt, not the pass such deposit into the hands of Mary, always suspected there was something
that was hidden shared care.

For this reason, and out of so much uncertainty, put in work to the point suggested the thought
that his wary suspicion.

- Mary - he said to the beautiful cousin - today is the day of your birth, and this time midnight,
at which time many prodigies often verified. The daughters of our family is well known that in
this day and at the same time can take some wonders of the invisible
world or cure any condition you want and as rebellious as wise and
powerful formulas they use.

Well, do not do anything miraculous, but test (this should move it to your natural compassion)
test, again, such power in the disabled poor, and now that, while old Christian, attends our joys,
remove them, as well as charity, rather than in a bucket would like to give theirs.

Muley spoke and all were of his opinion, and there he was praying to Mary and Zaida, as each named according
to which more or less affection for the holy religion, and many called for both of names.

Mary
honestly disgusted that endeavor, but the prayers were so, the object is presented as by so pious
and praise both more expensive and came and went, at last, giving
and rendered, and relying on the refusal of the soldier, who would
not admit as old Christian such practices, said:

- Since my taste
despite beating habréme asking me what I do not yet lend to do so
if the same soldier will not let me not silent, but I hear it myself
the appeal of his mouth.

- Hermosa Maria - glad the soldier replied
- not just want you to take part in this relief mine, but I beg humbly
as possible, although I have not much such practices, in exchange
I give such charm to the beauty and such strength and power to the
intercession of an angel, only that you do them hand in it and tell
me to cure and frank and free of infirmity and blindness.

This hearing Mary arose between troubled and sorrowful, and unfolding
a ribbon, passed it knee maimed soldier, one that rested on the mud
of wood, and also telling silent about such verses or payroll, then
tied the two ends of the bar, saying:

- Begging and your knee as
you crimp the two ends are linked, and say this and up the soldier,
throwing the Palitroques of the knee, and repeat aloud miracle miracle,
was all a point.

Everyone was preoccupied, some doubted, the more is claimed in the truth of those practices,
and Mary, removed to the side, and frightened of such a wonderful,
melt-in protests, she had no part in that diabolical machine, promising
not to repeat that ever again pernicious example, and making sure
the hand on the cross of the jewel, it seemed she sought to certify
a witness of his innocence.

Meanwhile, the soldier, voice counterpoint and cried:

- Another word, lovely Mary, and all my sad infirmity point disappears,
and another and last intercession, and disappears my blinds.

The clapping dance, many asked, all answered, the soldier shouted and jumped and loudly beat
the dog. All was uproar, all confusion, suddenly ábrense the doors to the street, and enter them
sort are the City of Old Christians with whole apparatus of justice,
the sheriff Molino, cutting edge, and the owner Bermúdez, the lagging.

-
Look - it said - oh, Reverend justice!, Where are my endotrinadas;
flee my teaching healthy, and delivered to their zambras, and warn
not to bring with them the wisdom and personified under a mistress,
the many long robes to frighten and alcandoras almaizares; monitoring,
warning, Reverend justice.

- Hush, owner Bermúdez - said Sheriff
-, here's some more value to your gossip duennas, here is practical,
payroll here, then there must be penalties.

- Utique - said the notary.

-
For you see there, by himself - went the honest sheriff - the soldier's
wooden leg Cigarral, cured at once and no person who does not, take
title to it.

What is this, sir? It is strength in order to see and point to the contemplations; also sound
rumors Berber Moors jumped on the beach, which are cherished in these parts. What is this, Lord, no
justice? Have more time to allow the deals and contracts rebels gossip
and sedition?

What is this, sir? Sir, where are we?

Nobody knows where apostrophes would come and incriminate the sheriff
multador Molino, pick bracket, according to the dictation and intitulación
good soldier, if an unexpected vicissitudes not cut the rapid flight
of eloquence.

The event was a backhand well established in the sinful mouth, which gave the speaker and his
eloquence on the ground, and turning the fallen and the contest to see which hand had ballestazo
tripped, were out ahead of all regarding the angry Gerif venerable, he looked around for the mayor
to entrust their grievances, and met him, so he said:

- Do not believe
me that will take you where you are, for the reason of reprimand,
the word person so mean condition as less worth for your workout,
and so much more with individual grievance case my quality.

I, for who I am, Mayor of mine, if you are of what Christians old, and for the honor that the
King wants them to be saved to the children and relatives of the kings, or I can celebrate who
I choose, not admitting in my company but who I even, or close friendship that I require it.


A temporary lull occurred at this point; and the chairman, seizing the opportunity to complete
his oft-impeded speech, suddenly remarked, "songs of the Sunny South"; and immediately sat
down and began hammering upon the table.

Then Signora Ballatino, clothed in the costume of the Sunny South, where clothes are less essential
than in these colder climes, skipped airily forward, and was most ungallantly greeted with
a storm of groans and hisses.  Her beloved instrument was unfeelingly alluded to as a pie-dish,
and she was advised to take it back and get the penny on it.  The chairman, addressed by his
Christian name of "Jimmee," was told to lie down and let her sing him to sleep.  Every time
she attempted to start playing, shouts were raised for Joss.

At length the chairman, overcoming his evident disinclination to take any sort of hand whatever
in the game, rose and gently hinted at the desirability of silence.  The suggestion not meeting
with any support, he proceeded to adopt sterner measures.  He addressed himself personally
to the ringleader of the rioters, the man who had first championed the cause of the absent
Joss.  This person was a brawny individual, who, judging from appearances, followed in his
business hours the calling of a coalheaver.  "Yes, sir," said the chairman, pointing a finger
towards him, where he sat in the front row of the gallery; "you, sir, in the flannel shirt.
I can see you.  Will you allow this lady to give her entertainment?"

"No," answered he of the coalheaving profession, in stentorian tones.

"Then, sir," said the little chairman, working himself up into a state suggestive of Jove about
to launch a thunderbolt--"then, sir, all I can say is that you are no gentleman."

This was a little too much, or rather a good deal too little, for the Signora Ballatino.  She
had hitherto been standing in a meek attitude of pathetic appeal, wearing a fixed smile of
ineffable sweetness but she evidently felt that she could go a bit farther than that herself,
even if she was a lady.  Calling the chairman "an old messer," and telling him for Gawd's sake
to shut up if that was all he could do for his living, she came down to the front, and took
the case into her own hands.

She did not waste time on the rest of the audience.  She went direct for that coalheaver, and
thereupon ensued a slanging match the memory of which sends a trill of admiration through me
even to this day.  It was a battle worthy of the gods.  He was a heaver of coals, quick and
ready beyond his kind.  During many years sojourn East and South, in the course of many wanderings
from Billingsgate to Limehouse Hole, from Petticoat Lane to Whitechapel Road; out of eel-pie
shop and penny gaff; out of tavern and street, and court and doss-house, he had gathered together
slang words and terms and phrases, and they came back to him now, and he stood up against her
manfully.

But as well might the lamb stand up against the eagle, when the shadow of its wings falls across
the green pastures, and the wind flies before its dark oncoming.  At the end of two minutes
he lay gasping, dazed, and speechless.

Then she began.

She announced her intention of "wiping down the bloomin' 'all" with him, and making it respectable;
and, metaphorically speaking, that is what she did.  Her tongue hit him between the eyes, and
knocked him down and trampled on him.  It curled round and round him like a whip, and then
it uncurled and wound the other way.  It seized him by the scruff of his neck, and tossed him
up into the air, and caught him as he descended, and flung him to the ground, and rolled him
on it.  It played around him like forked lightning, and blinded him.  It danced and shrieked
about him like a host of whirling fiends, and he tried to remember a prayer, and could not.
It touched him lightly on the sole of his foot and the crown of his head, and his hair stood
up straight, and his limbs grew stiff.  The people sitting near him drew away, not feeling
it safe to be near, and left him alone, surrounded by space, and language.

It was the most artistic piece of work of its kind that I have ever heard.  Every phrase she
flung at him seemed to have been woven on purpose to entangle him and to embrace in its choking
folds his people and his gods, to strangle with its threads his every hope, ambition, and belief.
Each term she put upon him clung to him like a garment, and fitted him without a crease.  The
last name that she called him one felt to be, until one heard the next, the one name that he
ought to have been christened by.

For five and three-quarter minutes by the clock she spoke, and never for one instant did she
pause or falter; and in the whole of that onslaught there was only one weak spot.

That was when she offered to make a better man than he was out of a Guy Fawkes and a lump of
coal.  You felt that one lump of coal would not have been sufficient. Will they be peaceful travelers or
bandits lurking in the footsteps of the pilgrims? I run to them and not move, I cry and I
shall respond.

Oh God! they are dead, is the ancient caravan exhumed by the wind from the depths of the arenas.
On the ride camel skeletons bones of the Arabs, by the concave where once they cheered the eyes,
and gaunt jaws slides running fine sand, and these whispers seem
threats.

"The fool, where do you? Beyond Hurricane hopes, and have our own luck."

I despise them and run and fly more and more, bodies and hurricanes,
do me instead!

A hurricane, the most terrible of those who follow the Africa, ran solo for the Ocean desert. Me currency
at a distance, marveling at me, stop the pass, and curling in himself, he said:

"Who is that wind, the weakest of all my brothers, whose flight languid and lazy dare enter even
in my states inherited? "

Turning into rage, against me up walking like a pyramid, and recognized
by a mortal, angry and resentful strikes the ground with his plant,
disrupting the middle of Arabia.

Haunt me and turns as the saker to the dove with its wings caps strikes me and abused me, I burn
ember your breath, I released into the air and was rejected on the
ground.

I argue and fight, vigorously and break their EDDYING gigantic knots, the tear and bite, and tasco
between my teeth the sands of its members.

Hurricane want to get away and slip, in a column, the drowning of my arms can not do it, and
crashes and breaks.

His head vanished in showers of dust, and its huge body fell at my feet and the walls a castle.

Then
breath, looked up and looked fiercely at the stars and all stars his eyes fixed on me gold, in the
desert because no one had but me.

Oh, how sweet it is to breathe in here with all the slack of his chest!

I breathe free, wide and rid, and all the air of Arabistan enough
just to my breast.

Oh how sweet look from here to the full extent of his sight! Magnify my eyes, are fortified and reach
beyond the limits of horizon. Oh how sweet it is to extend my arms here free, powerful and in its entirety!
I think that they embrace the whole universe, from the east at sunset. My thought is cast as an
arrow, high, very high, above still high, reaching into the abyss
of heaven.

And like a bee sends its life in the sting tripping, and I with my
thoughts to the heavens I raise my spirit.

* * *

Adam Mickiewier is advantageously released in Europe by Conrad,
historical sketch, taken from the annals of Lithuania and Crimea for
his sonnets, but what he has recommended for its originality and courage
is the trait that we have presented, which, loosely translated into
Castilian, available to the public.

FIN

Calpe

UNIVERSAL COLLECTION

* * *

Price of the number, 0.30

* * *

The Universal Library = =, inaugurated by the editorial CALPE, publish
the best productions literature of human ingenuity at all levels:
novel, story, poetry, science, philosophy, drama, memoirs, travel,
essays, etc.

* * *

The Universal Library = = is soon to Spanish-speaking
readers, an essential element education and culture.

Make affordable to everyone the benefits and joys of treatment the greatest spiritual genius
of mankind.

The Universal Library = = published works in its absolute integrity, no deletions or additions of any
kind.

* * *

The Universal Library = = take care with extreme zeal
that translations are always very faithful and correct; not publish
anonymous translations, translations to charge renowned writers. 

*
* *

The Universal Library = = account, editions of Spanish authors,
with the advice and the collaboration of eminent philologists.

*
* *

The Universal Library = = 0.30 is sold to the number. The extension
of a number is approximately 100 pages.

Once when I was playing among the sandhills, there came by a tall, grey woman, bending beneath
a load of driftwood.  She paused when nearly opposite to me, and, facing seaward, fixed her
eyes upon the breaking surf above the Bar.  "Ah, how I hate the sight of your white teeth!"
she muttered; then turned and passed on.

Another morning, walking through the village, I heard a low wailing come from one of the cottages,
while a little farther on a group of women were gathered in the roadway, talking.  "Ay," said
one of them, "I thought the Bar was looking hungry last night."

So, putting one and the other together, I concluded that the "Bar" must be an ogre, such as
a body reads of in books, who lived in a coral castle deep below the river's mouth, and fed
upon the fishermen as he caught them going down to the sea or coming home.

From my bedroom window, on moonlight nights, I could watch the silvery foam, marking the spot
beneath where he lay hid; and I would stand on tip- toe, peering out, until at length I would
come to fancy I could see his hideous form floating below the waters.  Then, as the little
white-sailed boats stole by him, tremblingly, I used to tremble too, lest he should suddenly
open his grim jaws and gulp them down; and when they had all safely reached the dark, soft
sea beyond, I would steal back to the bedside, and pray to God to make the Bar good, so that
he would give up eating the poor fishermen.

Another incident connected with that coast lives in my mind.  It was the morning after a great
storm--great even for that stormy coast--and the passion-worn waters were still heaving with
the memory of a fury that was dead.  Old Nick had scattered his marbles far and wide, and there
were rents and fissures in the pebbly wall such as the oldest fisherman had never known before.
Some of the hugest stones lay tossed a hundred yards away, and the waters had dug pits here
and there along the ridge so deep that a tall man might stand in some of them, and yet his
head not reach the level of the sand.

Round one of these holes a small crowd was pressing eagerly, while one man, standing in the
hollow, was lifting the few remaining stones off something that lay there at the bottom.  I
pushed my way between the straggling legs of a big fisher lad, and peered over with the rest.
A ray of sunlight streamed down into the pit, and the thing at the bottom gleamed white.  Sprawling
there among the black pebbles it looked like a huge spider.  One by one the last stones were
lifted away, and the thing was left bare, and then the crowd looked at one another and shivered.

"Wonder how he got there," said a woman at length; "somebody must ha' helped him."

"Some foreign chap, no doubt," said the man who had lifted off the stones; "washed ashore and
buried here by the sea." 

E otrosí: Magin peering in the good Don Egas, noticed that if a question should answer with greater
force of law brought in any collection letter words and letter calls on paper, and not be
resolved by such dead, but rather write your path coot, and saying and doing ANSI traced letters
and signs of necromancy, and said:

"In the mitered right now in play and Pintail in Halden.

"This sting spine and the reasons of your letter, but not written to resemble beauty of your lips
and jaws, which are not the Ortigal harshest of the mountain.

"If I catástedes repair and remove (which fugir non, despite Muhammad!), It was because four
no doodle, and my son I did not encircle lush four, and kills better
than break plea for good, and before one-eyed blind, crippled or fled
not disabled.

"And I'm not pensedes dove son or John for good soul I take the beards Jayan three states and
ten barajaré me giants.

"As for what the low point, lies the whore, I'm well stuck to members and very astringe of nature
than ever ever let me do such an offense, and that all Lard my joints and smell like cinnamon
and I'm storax test and pay the premiere.

Non curo that you can fry you like nit picking if not Don Lucifer was the sniffer.

"You have said you strictly speaking, 'more worth of monk kicks squire flattery', but soon you see
as black pepper, rugada, roasted and ground post.

If you offend you by my words, I know that he does wrong with the mouth, I bite the tail and
the mouth speaking do paid for coca.

"You must know that my love I came by your beautiful eyes, but taking to clog due to lack of got
my feet in a bushel, or the wishes of clogs I brought them into pitcher. Not to but if you Satan
wields, the crows you savor. Don Egas, two minutes after my redemption. "

The letter was and afufóse the turtle, and so he remained in budding
flower and the love of Egas e Aldonza, farm mocks the curious to see
what fruit and graft had left to cross two letters as eminent for
their addled his head.

    " E magu the perfects of the merchandise
    reserved nature of high aims to times
    closer to us, marrying non attaching
    separately Egas e Dona Aldonza spread
    his seed prolifically foolish and
    watermelon until today, they grandchildren
    walk in service of these realms
    by sea and by land. Lineage is eternal.

    

Took out this story in the Age of Caesar in 1342, and the Master wrote Candamo.

HIAL, NADIR AND BARTOLO

Happy head covering with subtle white holland
bed mind set in magical beauty aduerme is placid dawn in standby:
thousand times happier and happier if you drink the cup of henbane,
check out the haunted houses gold and blue that makes the dream.

SOLITUDE.

Oh, Nadir! You are captive, and the fierce Sultan Ismail
will not release the knots never your chains. You have fertile lands,
he has big states, are on edge and be confused, and your death, he
inherited as your father's brother, sad catastrophe .... Oh, Nadir
compassion inspire me!

- Oh, beautiful virgin! You can not be but
HIAL; your accents show me something more celestial the vulgar beauties
of the seraglio, gazelle your eyes [18] I express who you are.

My father opened the door and went out, and we could hear him striding down the gravel path,
and we clung to one another and waited.

After what seemed an endless time, we heard the heavy gate unbarred, and quickly clanged to,
and footsteps returning on the gravel.  Then the door opened again, and my father entered,
and behind him a crouching figure that felt its way with its hands as it crept along, as a
blind man might. The figure stood up when it reached the middle of the hall, and mopped its
eyes with a dirty rag that it carried in its hand; after which it held the rag over the umbrella-stand
and wrung it out, as washerwomen wring out clothes, and the dark drippings fell into the tray
with a dull, heavy splut.

My father whispered something to my mother, and she went out towards the back; and, in a little
while, we heard the stamping of hoofs--the angry plunge of a spur-startled horse--the rhythmic
throb of the long, straight gallop, dying away into the distance. There is in the style of The Lonely is a significant concern to imitate Cervantes, and
as he said announcing his novels, attempts to show "its originality in their works and parts components
are not marred with the modern present, vandalism, barbarian language supplants today property
and beauty of our language. "

The preparation and Arabs had Estébanez Calderon and his love of Granada and Andalusia, brought
him to write novels and short stories, and historical arguments, and fantastic; but all related
to the Muslim world. Among those who publish only in the story Don Egas squire - something
comical imitation of the medieval language - Arabs are no longer
their characters.

To the best of these novels, Christians and Moors, says Canovas del Castillo in his work Lone
and his time: "If anyone wants to know what the root of the conquest of Granada was a village
in the mountains of Ronda, Malaga or the Ajarquia Alpujarra, and why way he thought and lived, you can simply
flip through the pages of this booklet delicious. And surely, if truly expert in the annals
of Spain in that time, and particularly of the kingdom of Granada, will say to himself something
like that in the Censeur Européen de to May 1820 he wrote the famous
Augustin Thierry about Ivanhoe, is as follows: there was more story
there than in the genuine stories.

"

A DON LUIS RIO USOZ Y

Certainly be a hard thing, dear friend of mine, rebuffed those traits from my pen and these fantasies
of my imagination brought down to achieve the severity and correction of your choice and your
knowledge of all the charms and trappings of our happy indulgence that language both need
the fruits of my barren ingenuity. Thing is, indeed, difficult, for in time like this, that
everywhere and in all the languages ​​of Europe are sprouting works imagination, enlightened
mill daughters, who strive to take a bay leaf in such a rough path to pure being beaten and
tired, it must be attributed before to set good Fortunately, not a deliberate result of the
talent and studio, creating, writing for such style, which deserves the honor of reading. But
not everything that is written is written with the one studied in order to maintain public attention,
with the aim of creating in the other new sensations, itching to be remarkable, to be made
to look like window where flying rocket shoots. No, my friend, is written by fever, sickness,
is written also for comfort, for relief, and true remedy. Who can explain which of the two
drives should refer these inspirations are going to read? "Not who can ever amidst the storms
of life, explained, to understand himself, to realize the springs have been moved to his mind,
or the ideas that have dominated their inspirations? No, my friend. You, however, reading these
my fantasies born in a land of orange blossoms in a country of dreams and memories, portraying
the misadventures of a hapless nation, the misfortunes of characters brought high unless, death,
and the contempt for contempt and cruelty of bad luck, you'll know to distinguish fact from
fiction, what are memories distant than they are echoes of immediate sensations, impressions perhaps
throbbing yet. Your wisdom to know the distinction, and still a slight sign of approval yours,
a single movement of sympathy from your heart, fill mine and leisure
certain lineage of thanks, I refers to the feeling of glory and the
future.

       

THE SOLITARY

* * * * *

    
    CHRISTIANS AND MOORS
    
    NOVEL HURT

    

CHAPTER ONE

Other natural declared their strange and strange things by construction, and perpetuated themselves
for a clear in memory copy of the letters, giving each its measure as judges of fame and witnesses
of the truth.

LUIS OF MARBLE.

Fresh and peaceful autumn evening was, and how happy Sunday after vespers, and happy Recreation
poured back in the arena and suburbs of the place a certain rustic inhabitants village, whose
name, if not aim now is to do little to the purpose of history we are telling. Suffice it to
say that this place was well established as the Andalusia, to know
that he was rich, and that you did not but a short distance from the
city of Ronda, I enjoyed the most picturesque site and more rustic
approach that can entice the They cling eyes the scenes of cliffs,
springs and freshness.

These good people, say, a rose to the highest
peaks of the mountains, to amuse eyes on the quiet plains of the sea,
there seemed to far, others are coming through between both trees
and fruit orchard and garden as close to the village, and here and
there pomegranate or groups of young men young boys amused themselves
in playing the mall and pulling the bar, or painted kites released
into the air with the greatest joy in the world.  Dark figures flit to and fro, pausing from time to time to wipe
the black sweat from their faces.

The pale light fades, and the flame-lit night lies red upon the land.  The flitting figures
take strange shapes.  I hear the hissing of wheels, the furious clanking of iron chains, the
hoarse shouting of many voices, the hurrying tread of many feet; and, through all, the wailing
and weeping and cursing that never seem to cease.  I drop into a restless sleep, and dream
that I have broken a chapel window, stone-throwing, and have died and gone to hell.

At length, a cold hand is laid upon my shoulder, and I awake.  The wild faces have vanished
and all is silent now, and I wonder if the whole thing has been a dream.  My father lifts me
into the dog-cart, and we drive home through the chill dawn.

My mother opens the door softly as we alight.  She does not speak, only looks her question.
"It's all over, Maggie," answers my father very quietly, as he takes off his coat and lays
it across a chair; "we've got to begin the world afresh."

My mother's arms steal up about his neck; and I, feeling heavy with a trouble I do not understand,
creep off to bed.

THE LEASE OF THE "CROSS KEYS."

This story is about a shop: many stories are.  One Sunday evening this Bishop had to preach
a sermon at St. Paul's Cathedral.  The occasion was a very special and important one, and every
God-fearing newspaper in the kingdom sent its own special representative to report the proceedings.

Now, of the three reporters thus commissioned, one was a man of appearance so eminently respectable
that no one would have thought of taking him for a journalist.  People used to put him down
for a County Councillor or an Archdeacon at the very least.  As a matter of fact, however,
he was a sinful man, with a passion for gin.  He lived at Bow, and, on the Sabbath in question,
he left his home at five o'clock in the afternoon, and started to walk to the scene of his
labours.  The road from Bow to the City on a wet and chilly Sunday evening is a cheerless one;
who can blame him if on his way he stopped once or twice to comfort himself with "two" of his
favourite beverage? 

A sharp cry was heard, and the air disappeared at once.

The lover (and up and hurt Muley, because it was one plaintive cry) came to receive Mary, alerted
by the barking of the dog, reaching the edge of the bridge at the same point the cruel catastrophe,
to suffer and the excruciating torment of seeing death before their eyes, not save the only solace
of his life, and the white of their desires, ending in a point and so unfortunately with all its
joys and hopes. Desperate, and watching his beloved away at that pit, reaching the gap, and also
furiously topples him, wanting to conclude where its existence had
really already lost their lives.

The soldier and the other servants came just to hear the murmur of the waters to swallow Members
of the unfortunate Don Lope.

The unfortunate Gerif, how long you kept the sky to witness such large life unhappiness, happened
to come when even lasted the first ongoing horror of Don Lope. The desperation of the miserable
old man, cheating on the love of Mary the memories of his past glory
and power of his family, giving horrific screams, tearing dresses
and tearing his beard, he expressed his intense pain, Muley without
remembering that, lifeless and bathed in their blood, rolled a few
feet of him.

As the cry of alarm, the whole village, Moors and Christians, young and old, men and women, ran to
the bridge, and fell all along the shore, what with lighted torches, what with ropes, what with
tables, and all willing to risk his life in exchange for saving the unhappy Mary. But all was
in vain: the next morning, well beaten on both sides, only miserable
mutt was found still holding in his mouth somewhere in the garment
Mary White.

The soldier, with tears in his eyes, picking at her breast this pledge
of pain was inquiring from stone to stone by the river, and asking
how many villagers found:

- Have you seen Mary?

At the end of the afternoon and into the drain for the Guadiana, a
miserable fisherman said last night, some time, heard the river to
some accents plaintive, quivering both of them, who had said the door
of his hut, fearing a prodigious appearance.

No more was heard of lovers. Moorish credulity, colorful and imaginative as the Greeks, who were delighted
represented by the caves that opened up the walls those depths, as rising or falling, still inaccessible,
gave this same mystery hand a thousand tales and superstitions, and
many claimed to have seen amongst those suspended pits.

Muley, more fortunate than his conqueror and Mary, healing from his wounds at the end, continued
in their projects of revolt and rebellion, if not performed by their
own hands, thanks the fear inspired by the Emperor Charles V, saw
them put into practice years later by her son, who was one of the
kings of the Alpujarras.

Gerif failed to reach or that sigh of Moorish freedom, nor the terrible
punishment in theirs was verified, as sad, thoughtful and Mary's name
on his lips, took little time in following the light of his eyes.

With this, the Bishop opened and handed to the man a neat little black leather bag, inside
which lay a neat little roll of manuscript.

"Better take the bag to keep it in," added the Bishop.  "Be sure and let me have them both
back early to-morrow."

The reporter, when he examined the contents of the bag under a lamp in the Cathedral vestibule,
could hardly believe his good fortune.  The careful Bishop's notes were so full and clear that
for all practical purposes they were equal to a report.  His work was already done.  He felt
so pleased with himself that he determined to treat himself to another "two" of gin, and, with
this intent, made his way across to the little "public" before-mentioned.

"It's really excellent gin you sell here," he said to the barmaid when he had finished; "I
think, my dear, I'll have just one more." The
240 annual issues of the Universal Library = = constitute an abundant and chosen library about 100
volumes.

The Universal Library = = support subscriptions for a quarter, half
and one year. To subscribers, the price of the number is 0.25. 

Then calmly alarmed some and anger of the burning hatred of others, saw another Once the steel
of swords and daggers, and almost naked, always ready to turn in fire that which began sweet
and peaceful holiday.

The landlord blew a long, low whistle, and stood with his round eyes wide open gazing down
at the open bag.  Then he put on his hat and coat, and taking the bag, went out down the court,
chuckling hugely as he walked. He went straight to the house of the Resident Canon and rang
the bell. When stayed
alone and orphaned, I was your support, I am your loving mother, and now you see me old man
and helpless, choose this moment to me; húndeme before the tomb, and then walk away, so meet
me before, and unless you can better meet the taste yours. With like yours, that God wants
it to bitter gall convertírtelo! Who told you those Spaniards never look lovingly dwells blood?
Let, let me steal that you knows the boredom of love, and soon find the disdain of the Lord.


"God bless the man!" cried the Canon, jumping up indignantly, "you don't mean to say you've
come to me at eleven o'clock on a Sunday night to talk about your lease?" But your work force is worship. "

Getting up after he told Catur:

"Oh, my son, this afternoon and again and walks through the alleys
of the river between the other Arab has raised very raised brow and
sleep with rest, the fourth day you will and will possess Emir great
wealth: I only ask as a reward for my news, let me alone.

"

And then, turning to Mr. Alicak he added, looking with fear at the front:

"You, get lucky, go into your house and nothing else."

Alicak Catur and hearing these words, they left happy, before the
first casting a glance whim of the orchard, and the second a look
of greed gold rings and precious stones Lokman had on hand.

Caleb, who observed the whole scene, came to embrace the wisdom and
ask him too he tells his future, having no flaw make better companions
than their two lower study, Lokman looked between joyful and uncertain,
and embracing him closely, he said:

- Oh, my son!

None of the lines of your face will announce fortune, at least for
age in which we live.

The sign privileged not fail to see in it, more carefully than I put it.

- And what is that sign, my father? - Sorry Caleb said.

- Young dear, are such and such - and delivered two Arabic words unknown
to us.

- And what these words mean? ...

The story did not say whether
or not that is the key to these two mysterious words, but is known,
and consists in the chronicles of that time, Mr. Catur and came Alicak
Lokman promised state, being at the same time appointed by the viziers
Caliph.  "Oh, sir," he exclaimed, with a burst of fervour, "in Heaven's name--for
the sake of our Church, let me entreat--let me pray you never to let such a thing occur again."

The Bishop turned upon him angrily.

"Why, what a fuss you make about a little thing!" he cried; then, seeing the look of agony
upon the other's face, he paused.

"How did you get that bag?" he asked.

"The landlord of the Cross Keys brought it me," answered the Canon; "you left it there last night."

The Bishop gave a gasp, and sat down heavily.  When he recovered his breath, he told the Canon
the real history of the case; and the Canon is still trying to believe it.

