I remained with Fink & Dittoe until I entered the Military Academy, principally in charge of
the book-keeping, which was no small work for one of my years, considering that in those days
the entire business of country stores in the West was conducted on the credit system; the customers,
being mostly farmers, never expecting to pay till the product of their farms could be brought
to market; and even then usually squared the book-accounts by notes of hand, that were often
slow of collection.

From the time I ceased to attend school my employment had necessitated, to a certain degree,
the application of what I had learned there, and this practical instruction I reinforced somewhat
by doing considerable reading in a general way, until ultimately I became quite a local authority
in history, being frequently chosen as arbiter in discussions and disputes that arose in the
store.  The Mexican War, then going on, furnished, of course, a never-ending theme for controversy,
and although I was too young to enter the military service when volunteers were mustering in
our section, yet the stirring events of the times so much impressed and absorbed me that my
sole wish was to become a soldier, and my highest aspiration to go to West Point as a Cadet
from my Congressional district.  My chances for this seemed very remote, however, till one
day an opportunity was thrown in my way by the boy who then held the place failing to pass
his examination.  When I learned that by this occurrence a vacancy existed, I wrote to our
representative in Congress, the Hon. Thomas Ritchey, and asked him for the appointment, reminding
him that we had often met in Fink & Dittoe's store, and that therefore he must know something
of my qualifications.  He responded promptly by enclosing my warrant for the class of 1848;
so, notwithstanding the many romances that have been published about the matter, to Mr. Ritchey,
and to him alone, is due all the credit--if my career justifies that term--of putting me in
the United States Army.

At once I set about preparing for the examination which precedes admission to the Military
Academy, studying zealously under the direction of Mr. William Clark; my old teachers, McNanly
and Thorn, having disappeared from Somerset and sought new fields of usefulness. The intervening
months passed rapidly away, and I fear that I did not make much progress, yet I thought I should
be able to pass the preliminary examination.  That which was to follow worried me more and
gave me many sleepless nights; but these would have been less in number, I fully believe, had
it not been for one specification of my, outfit which the circular that accompanied my appointment
demanded. This requirement was a pair of "Monroe shoes."  Now, out in Ohio, what "Monroe shoes"
were was a mystery--not a shoemaker in my section having so much as an inkling of the construction
of the perplexing things, until finally my eldest brother brought an idea of them from Baltimore,
when it was found that they were a familiar pattern under another name.

At length the time for my departure came, and I set out for West Point, going by way of Cleveland
and across Lake Erie to Buffalo.  On the steamer I fell in with another appointee en route
to the academy, David S. Stanley, also from Ohio; and when our acquaintanceship had ripened
somewhat, and we had begun to repose confidence in each other, I found out that he had no "Monroe
shoes," so I deemed myself just that much ahead of my companion, although my shoes might not
conform exactly to the regulations in Eastern style and finish.  At Buffalo, Stanley and I
separated, he going by the Erie Canal and I by the railroad, since I wanted to gain time on
account of commands to stop in Albany to see my father's uncle.  Here I spent a few days, till
Stanley reached Albany, when we journeyed together down the river to West Point.  The examination
began a few days after our arrival, and I soon found myself admitted to the Corps of Cadets,
to date from July 1, 1848, in a class composed of sixty-three members, many of whom--for example,
Stanley, Slocum, Woods, Kautz, and Crook --became prominent generals in later years, and commanded
divisions, corps, and armies in the war of the rebellion.

Quickly following my admission I was broken in by a course of hazing, with many of the approved
methods that the Cadets had handed down from year to year since the Academy was founded; still,
I escaped excessive persecution, although there were in my day many occurrences so extreme
as to call forth condemnation and an endeavor to suppress the senseless custom, which an improved
civilization has now about eradicated, not only at West Point, but at other colleges.

Although I had met the Academic board and come off with fair success, yet I knew so little
of Algebra or any of the higher branches of mathematics that during my first six months at
the Academy I was discouraged by many misgivings as to the future, for I speedily learned that
at the January examination the class would have to stand a test much severer than that which
had been applied to it on entering.  I resolved to try hard, however, and, besides, good fortune
gave me for a room-mate a Cadet whose education was more advanced than mine, and whose studious
habits and willingness to aid others benefited me immensely.  This room-mate was Henry W. Slocum,
since so signally distinguished in both military and civil capacities as to win for his name
a proud place in the annals of his country. After taps--that is, when by the regulations of
the Academy all the lights were supposed to be extinguished, and everybody in bed--Slocum and
I would hang a blanket over the one window of our room and continue our studies--he guiding
me around scores of stumbling-blocks in Algebra and elucidating many knotty points in other
branches of the course with which I was unfamiliar.  On account of this association I went
up before the Board in January with less uneasiness than otherwise would have been the case,
and passed the examination fairly well.  When it was over, a self-confidence in my capacity
was established that had not existed hitherto, and at each succeeding examination I gained
a little in order of merit till my furlough summer came round--that is, when I was half through
the four-year course.

My furlough in July and August, 1850, was spent at my home in Ohio, with the exception of a
visit or two to other Cadets on furlough in the State, and at the close of my leave I returned
to the Academy in the full expectation of graduating with my class in 1852.

A quarrel of a belligerent character in September, 1851, with Cadet William R. Terrill, put
an end to this anticipation, however, and threw me back into the class which graduated in 1853.
Terrill was a Cadet Sergeant, and, while my company was forming for parade, having, given me
an order, in what I considered an improper tone, to "dress" in a certain direction, when I
believed I was accurately dressed, I fancied I had a grievance, and made toward him with a
lowered bayonet, but my better judgment recalled me before actual contact could take place.
Of course Terrill reported me for this, and my ire was so inflamed by his action that when
we next met I attacked him, and a fisticuff engagement in front of barracks followed, which
was stopped by an officer appearing on the scene.  Each of us handed in an explanation, but
mine was unsatisfactory to the authorities, for I had to admit that I was the assaulting party,
and the result was that I was suspended by the Secretary of War, Mr. Conrad, till August 28,
1852--the Superintendent of the Academy, Captain Brewerton, being induced to recommend this
milder course, he said, by my previous good conduct.  At the time I thought, of course, my
suspension a very unfair punishment, that my conduct was justifiable and the authorities of
the Academy all wrong, but riper experience has led me to a different conclusion, and as I
look back, though the mortification I then endured was deep and trying, I am convinced that
it was hardly as much as I deserved for such an outrageous breach of discipline.

There was no question as to Terrill's irritating tone, but in giving me the order he was prompted
by the duty of his position as a file closer, and I was not the one to remedy the wrong which
I conceived had been done me, and clearly not justifiable in assuming to correct him with my
own hands.  In 1862, when General Buell's army was assembling at Louisville, Terrill was with
it as a brigadier-general (for, although a Virginian, he had remained loyal), and I then took
the initiative toward a renewal of our acquaintance.  Our renewed friendship was not destined
to be of long duration, I am sorry to say, for a few days later, in the battle of Perryville,
while gallantly fighting for his country, poor Terrill was killed.

My suspension necessitated my leaving the Academy, and I returned home in the fall of 1851,
much crestfallen.  Fortunately, my good friend Henry Dittoe again gave me employment in keeping
the books of his establishment, and this occupation of my time made the nine months which were
to elapse before I could go back to West Point pass much more agreeably than they would have
done had I been idle.  In August, 1852, I joined the first class at the Academy in accordance
with the order of the War Department, taking my place at the foot of the class and graduating
with it the succeeding June, number thirty-four in a membership of fifty-two.  At the head
of this class graduated James B. McPherson, who was killed in the Atlanta campaign while commanding
the Army of the Tennessee.  It also contained such men as John M. Schofield, who commanded
the Army of the Ohio; Joshua W. Sill, killed as a brigadier in the battle of Stone River; and
many others who, in the war of the rebellion, on one side or the other, rose to prominence,
General John B. Hood being the most distinguished member of the class among the Confederates.

At the close of the final examination I made no formal application for assignment to any particular
arm of the service, for I knew that my standing would not entitle me to one of the existing
vacancies, and that I should be obliged to take a place among the brevet second lieutenants.
When the appointments were made I therefore found myself attached to the First Infantry, well
pleased that I had surmounted all the difficulties that confront the student at our national
school, and looking forward with pleasant anticipation to the life before me.

CHAPTER II.

ORDERED TO FORT DUNCAN, TEXAS--"NORTHERS"--SCOUTING DUTY--HUNTING--NEARLY CAUGHT BY THE INDIANS--A
PRIMITIVE HABITATION --A BRAVE DRUMMERBOY'S DEATH--A MEXICAN BALL.

On the 1st day of July, 1853, I was commissioned a brevet second lieutenant in the First Regiment
of United States Infantry, then stationed in Texas.  The company to which I was attached was
quartered at Fort Duncan, a military post on the Rio Grande opposite the little town of Piedras
Negras, on the boundary line between the United States and the Republic of Mexico.

