Yet is there not another side to the picture?  High over sounding workshops spires glisten
in the sun,--silent fingers pointing heavenward. The workshops themselves are instinct with
other and subtler processes than cotton-spinning or carpet-weaving.  Each human being who watches
beside jack or power loom feels more or less intensely that it is a solemn thing to live. 
Here are sin and sorrow, yearnings for lost peace, outgushing gratitude of forgiven spirits,
hopes and fears, which stretch beyond the horizon of time into eternity.  Death is here.  The
graveyard utters its warning.  Over all bends the eternal heaven in its silence and mystery.
Nature, even here, is mightier than Art, and God is above all. Underneath the din of labor
and the sounds of traffic, a voice, felt rather than beard, reaches the heart, prompting the
same fearful questions which stirred the soul of the world's oldest poet,--"If a man die, shall
he live again?"  "Man giveth up the ghost, and where is he?" Out of the depths of burdened
and weary hearts comes up the agonizing inquiry, "What shall I do to be saved?"  "Who shall
deliver me from the body of this death?"

As a matter of course, in a city like this, composed of all classes of our many-sided population,
a great variety of religious sects have their representatives in Lowell.  The young city is
dotted over with "steeple houses," most of them of the Yankee order of architecture.  The Episcopalians
have a house of worship on Merrimac Street,--a pile of dark stone, with low Gothic doors and
arched windows.  A plat of grass lies between it and the dusty street; and near it stands the
dwelling-house intended for the minister, built of the same material as the church and surrounded
by trees and shrubbery.  The attention of the stranger is also attracted by another consecrated
building on the hill slope of Belvidere,--one of Irving's a "shingle palaces," painted in imitation
of stone,--a great wooden sham, "whelked and horned" with pine spires and turrets, a sort of
whittled representation of the many-beaded beast of the Apocalypse.

In addition to the established sects which have reared their visible altars in the City of
Spindles, there are many who have not yet marked the boundaries or set up the pillars and stretched
out the curtains of their sectarian tabernacles; who, in halls and "upper chambers" and in
the solitude of their own homes, keep alive the spirit of devotion, and, wrapping closely around
them the mantles of their order, maintain the integrity of its peculiarities in the midst of
an unbelieving generation.

Not long since, in company with a friend who is a regular attendant, I visited the little meeting
of the disciples of Emanuel Swedenborg. Passing over Chapel Hill and leaving the city behind
us, we reached the stream which winds through the beautiful woodlands at the Powder Mills and
mingles its waters with the Concord.  The hall in which the followers of the Gothland seer
meet is small and plain, with unpainted seats, like those of "the people called Quakers," and
looks out upon the still woods and that "willowy stream which turns a mill."  An organ of small
size, yet, as it seemed to me, vastly out of proportion with the room, filled the place usually
occupied by the pulpit, which was here only a plain desk, placed modestly by the side of it.
The congregation have no regular preacher, but the exercises of reading the Scriptures, prayers,
and selections from the Book of Worship were conducted by one of the lay members.  A manuscript
sermon, by a clergyman of the order in Boston, was read, and apparently listened to with much
interest.  It was well written and deeply imbued with the doctrines of the church.  I was impressed
by the gravity and serious earnestness of the little audience.  There were here no circumstances
calculated to excite enthusiasm, nothing of the pomp of religious rites and ceremonies; only
a settled conviction of the truth of the doctrines of their faith could have thus brought them
together.  I could scarcely make the fact a reality, as I sat among them, that here, in the
midst of our bare and hard utilities, in the very centre and heart of our mechanical civilization,
were devoted and undoubting believers in the mysterious and wonderful revelations of the Swedish
prophet,--revelations which look through all external and outward manifestations to inward
realities; which regard all objects in the world of sense only as the types and symbols of
the world of spirit; literally unmasking the universe and laying bare the profoundest mysteries
of life.

The character and writings of Emanuel Swedenborg constitute one of the puzzles and marvels
of metaphysics and psychology.  A man remarkable for his practical activities, an ardent scholar
of the exact sciences, versed in all the arcana of physics, a skilful and inventive mechanician,
he has evolved from the hard and gross materialism of his studies a system of transcendent
spiritualism.  From his aggregation of cold and apparently lifeless practical facts beautiful
and wonderful abstractions start forth like blossoms on the rod of the Levite.  A politician
and a courtier, a man of the world, a mathematician engaged in the soberest details of the
science, he has given to the world, in the simplest and most natural language, a series of
speculations upon the great mystery of being: detailed, matter-of-fact narratives of revelations
from the spiritual world, which at once appall us by their boldness, and excite our wonder
at their extraordinary method, logical accuracy, and perfect consistency. These remarkable
speculations--the workings of a mind in which a powerful imagination allied itself with superior
reasoning faculties, the marvellous current of whose thought ran only in the diked and guarded
channels of mathematical demonstration--he uniformly speaks of as "facts."  His perceptions
of abstractions were so intense that they seem to have reached that point where thought became
sensible to sight as well as feeling.  What he thought, that he saw.

He relates his visions of the spiritual world as he would the incidents of a walk round his
own city of Stockholm.  One can almost see him in his "brown coat and velvet breeches," lifting
his "cocked hat" to an angel, or keeping an unsavory spirit at arm's length with that "gold-headed
cane" which his London host describes as his inseparable companion in walking.  His graphic
descriptions have always an air of naturalness and probability; yet there is a minuteness of
detail at times almost bordering on the ludicrous.  In his Memorable Relations he manifests
nothing of the imagination of Milton, overlooking the closed gates of paradise, or following
the "pained fiend" in his flight through chaos; nothing of Dante's terrible imagery appalls
us; we are led on from heaven to heaven very much as Defoe leads us after his shipwrecked Crusoe.
We can scarcely credit the fact that we are not traversing our lower planet; and the angels
seem vastly like our common acquaintances.  We seem to recognize the "John Smiths," and "Mr.
Browns," and "the old familiar faces" of our mundane habitation.  The evil principle in Swedenborg's
picture is, not the colossal and massive horror of the Inferno, nor that stern wrestler with
fate who darkens the canvas of Paradise Lost, but an aggregation of poor, confused spirits,
seeking rest and finding none save in the unsavory atmosphere of the "falses."  These small
fry of devils remind us only of certain unfortunate fellows whom we have known, who seem incapable
of living in good and wholesome society, and who are manifestly given over to believe a lie.
Thus it is that the very "heavens" and "hells" of the Swedish mystic seem to be "of the earth,
earthy."  He brings the spiritual world into close analogy with the material one.

In this hurried paper I have neither space nor leisure to attempt an analysis of the great
doctrines which underlie the "revelations" of Swedenborg.  His remarkably suggestive books
are becoming familiar to the reading and reflecting portion of the community.  They are not
unworthy of study; but, in the language of another, I would say, "Emulate Swedenborg in his
exemplary life, his learning, his virtues, his independent thought, his desire for wisdom,
his love of the good and true; aim to be his equal, his superior, in these things; but call
no man your master."

                             THE BETTER LAND.

                                 [1844.]

"THE shapings of our heavens are the modifications of our constitution," said Charles Lamb,
in his reply to Southey's attack upon him in the Quarterly Review.

He who is infinite in love as well as wisdom has revealed to us the fact of a future life,
and the fearfully important relation in which the present stands to it.  The actual nature
and conditions of that life He has hidden from us,--no chart of the ocean of eternity is given
us,--no celestial guidebook or geography defines, localizes, and prepares us for the wonders
of the spiritual world.  Hence imagination has a wide field for its speculations, which, so
long as they do not positively contradict the revelation of the Scriptures, cannot be disproved.

We naturally enough transfer to our idea of heaven whatever we love and reverence on earth.
Thither the Catholic carries in his fancy the imposing rites and time-honored solemnities of
his worship.  There the Methodist sees his love-feasts and camp-meetings in the groves and
by the still waters and green pastures of the blessed abodes.  The Quaker, in the stillness
of his self-communing, remembers that there was "silence in heaven."

The Churchman, listening to the solemn chant of weal music or the deep tones of the organ,
thinks of the song of the elders and the golden harps of the New Jerusalem.

The heaven of the northern nations of Europe was a gross and sensual reflection of the earthly
life of a barbarous and brutal people.

The Indians of North America had a vague notion of a sunset land, a beautiful paradise far
in the west, mountains and forests filled with deer and buffalo, lakes and streams swarming
with fishes,--the happy hunting-ground of souls.  In a late letter from a devoted missionary
among the Western Indians (Paul Blohm, a converted Jew) we have noticed a beautiful illustration
of this belief.  Near the Omaha mission-house, on a high luff, was a solitary Indian grave.
"One evening," says the missionary, "having come home with some cattle which I had been seeking,
I heard some one wailing; and, looking in the direction from whence I proceeded, I found it
to be from the grave near our house.  In a moment after a mourner rose up from a kneeling or
lying posture, and, turning to the setting sun, stretched forth his arms in prayer and supplication
with an intensity and earnestness as though he would detain the splendid luminary from running
his course.  With his body leaning forward and his arms stretched towards the sun, he presented
a most striking figure of sorrow and petition.  It was solemnly awful.  He seemed to me to
be one of the ancients come forth to teach me how to pray."

A venerable and worthy New England clergyman, on his death-bed, just before the close of his
life, declared that he was only conscious of an awfully solemn and intense curiosity to know
the great secret of death and eternity.

The excellent Dr. Nelson, of Missouri, was one who, while on earth, seemed to live another
and higher life in the contemplation of infinite purity and happiness.  A friend once related
an incident concerning him which made a deep impression upon my mind.  They had been travelling
through a summer's forenoon in the prairie, and had lain down to rest beneath a solitary tree.
The Doctor lay for a long time, silently looking upwards through the openings of the boughs
into the still heavens, when he repeated the following lines, in a low tone, as if communing
with himself in view of the wonders he described:--

    "O the joys that are there mortal eye bath not seen!
     O the songs they sing there, with hosannas between!
     O the thrice-blessed song of the Lamb and of Moses!
     O brightness on brightness!  the pearl gate uncloses!
     O white wings of angels!  O fields white with roses!
     O white tents of peace, where the rapt soul reposes
     O the waters so still, and the pastures so green!"

The brief hints afforded us by the sacred writings concerning the better land are inspiring
and beautiful.  Heaven is described as a quiet habitation,--a rest remaining for the people
of God.  Tears shall be wiped away from all eyes; there shall be no more death, neither sorrow
nor crying, neither shall there be any more pain.  To how many death-beds have these words
spoken peace!  How many failing hearts have gathered strength from them to pass through the
dark valley of shadows!

Yet we should not forget that "the kingdom of heaven is within;" that it is the state and affections
of the soul, the answer of a good conscience, the sense of harmony with God, a condition of
time as well as of eternity.  What is really momentous and all-important with us is the present,
by which the future is shaped and colored.  A mere change of locality cannot alter the actual
and intrinsic qualities of the soul. Guilt and remorse would make the golden streets of Paradise
intolerable as the burning marl of the infernal abodes; while purity and innocence would transform
hell itself into heaven.

DORA GREEN WELL.

First published as an introduction to an American edition of that author's The Patience of Hope.

THERE are men who, irrespective of the names by which they are called in the Babel confusion
of sects, are endeared to the common heart of Christendom.  Our doors open of their own accord
to receive them.  For in them we feel that in some faint degree, and with many limitations,
the Divine is again manifested: something of the Infinite Love shines out of them; their very
garments have healing and fragrance borrowed from the bloom of Paradise.  So of books.  There
are volumes which perhaps contain many things, in the matter of doctrine and illustration,
to which our reason does not assent, but which nevertheless seem permeated with a certain sweetness
and savor of life.  They have the Divine seal and imprimatur; they are fragrant with heart's-ease
and asphodel; tonic with the leaves which are for the healing of the nations.  The meditations
of the devout monk of Kempen are the common heritage of Catholic and Protestant; our hearts
burn within us as we walk with Augustine under Numidian fig-trees in the gardens of Verecundus;
Feuelon from his bishop's palace and John Woolman from his tailor's shop speak to us in the
same language.  The unknown author of that book which Luther loved next to his Bible, the Theologia
Germanica, is just as truly at home in this present age, and in the ultra Protestantism of
New England, as in the heart of Catholic Europe, and in the fourteenth century.  For such books
know no limitations of time or place; they have the perpetual freshness and fitness of truth;
they speak out of profound experience heart answers to heart as we read them; the spirit that
is in man, and the inspiration that giveth understanding, bear witness to them.  The bent and
stress of their testimony are the same, whether written in this or a past century, by Catholic
or Quaker: self-renunciation,-- reconcilement to the Divine will through simple faith in the
Divine goodness, and the love of it which must needs follow its recognition, the life of Christ
made our own by self-denial and sacrifice, and the fellowship of His suffering for the good
of others, the indwelling Spirit, leading into all truth, the Divine Word nigh us, even in
our hearts.  They have little to do with creeds, or schemes of doctrine, or the partial and
inadequate plans of salvation invented by human speculation and ascribed to Him who, it is
sufficient to know, is able to save unto the uttermost all who trust in Him.  They insist upon
simple faith and holiness of life, rather than rituals or modes of worship; they leave the
merely formal, ceremonial, and temporal part of religion to take care of itself, and earnestly
seek for the substantial, the necessary, and the permanent.

With these legacies of devout souls, it seems to me, the little volume herewith presented is
not wholly unworthy of a place.  It assumes the life and power of the gospel as a matter of
actual experience; it bears unmistakable evidence of a realization, on the part of its author,
of the truth, that Christianity is not simply historical and traditional, but present and permanent,
with its roots in the infinite past and its branches in the infinite future, the eternal spring
and growth of Divine love; not the dying echo of words uttered centuries ago, never to be repeated,
but God's good tidings spoken afresh in every soul,--the perennial fountain and unstinted outflow
of wisdom and goodness, forever old and forever new.  It is a lofty plea for patience, trust,
hope, and holy confidence, under the shadow, as well as in the light, of Christian experience,
whether the cloud seems to rest on the tabernacle, or moves guidingly forward.  It is perhaps
too exclusively addressed to those who minister in the inner sanctuary, to be entirely intelligible
to the vaster number who wait in the outer courts; it overlooks, perhaps, too much the solidarity
and oneness of humanity;' but all who read it will feel its earnestness, and confess to the
singular beauty of its style, the strong, steady march of its argument, and the wide and varied
learning which illustrates it.

"This is a book for Christian men, for the quiet hour of holy solitude, when the heart longs
and waits for access to the presence of the Master. The weary heart that thirsts amidst its
conflicts and its toils for refreshing water will drink eagerly of these sweet and refreshing
words. To thoughtful men and women, especially such as have learnt any of the patience of hope
in the experiences of sorrow and trial, we commend this little volume most heartily and earnestly."

