In addition to the ordinary motives which would naturally lead him to desire such success he
was incited by a secret one more powerful than all the others combined.

Before going abroad, when but a clerk, he had been the favored suitor of a beautiful and accomplished
girl. Indeed the understanding between them almost amounted to an engagement, and he revelled
in a passionate, romantic attachment at an age when the blood is hot, the heart enthusiastic,
and when not a particle of worldly cynicism and adverse experience had taught him to moderate
his rose-hued anticipations. She seemed the embodiment of goodness, as well as beauty and grace,
for did she not repress his tendencies to be a little fast? Did she not, with more than sisterly
solicitude, counsel him to shun certain florid youth whose premature blossoming indicated that
they might early run to seed? and did he not, in consequence, cut Guy Bonner, the jolliest
fellow he had ever known? Indeed, more than all, had she not ventured to talk religion to him,
so that for a time he had regarded himself as in a very "hopeful frame of mind," and had been
inclined to take a mission-class in the same school with herself? How lovely and angelic she
had once appeared, stooping in elegant costume from her social height to the little ragamuffins
of the street that sat gaping around her! As he gazed adoringly, while waiting to be her resort
home, his young heart had swelled with the impulse to be good and noble also.

But one day she caused him to drop out of his roseate clouds. With much sweetness and resignation,
and with appropriate sighs, she said that "it was her painful duty to tell him that their intimacy
must cease--that she had received an offer from Mr. Grobb, and that her parents, and indeed
all her friends, had urged her to accept him. She had been led to feel that they with their
riper experience and knowledge of life knew what was best for her, and therefore she had yielded
to their wishes and accepted the offer." She was beginning to add, in a sentimental tone, that
"had she only followed the impulses of her heart"--when Gregory, at first too stunned and bewildered
to speak, recovered his senses and interrupted with, "Please don't speak of your heart, Miss
Bently. Why mention so small a matter? Go on with your little transaction by all means. I am
a business man myself, and can readily understand your motives;" and he turned on his heel
and strode from the room, leaving Miss Bently ill at ease.

The young man's first expression of having received, as it were, a staggering blow, and then
his bitter satire, made an impression on her cotton-and-wool nature, and for a time her proceedings
with Mr. Grobb did not wear the aspect in which they had been presented by her friends. But
her little world so confidently and continually reiterated the statement that she was making
a "splendid match" that her qualms vanished, and she felt that what all asserted must be true,
and so entered on the gorgeous preparations as if the wedding were all and the man nothing.

It is the custom to satirize or bitterly denounce such girls, but perhaps they are rather to
be pitied. They are the natural products of artificial society, wherein wealth, show, and the
social eminence which is based on dress and establishment are held out as the prizes of a woman's
existence. The only wonder is that so much heart and truth assert themselves among those who
all their life have seen wealth practically worshipped, and worth, ungilded, generally ignored.
From ultra-fashionable circles a girl is often seen developing into the noblest womanhood;
while narrow, mercenary natures are often found where far better things might have been expected.
If such girls as Miss Bently could only be kept in quiet obscurity, like a bale of merchandise,
till wanted, it would not be so bad; but some of them are such brilliant belles and incorrigible
coquettes that they are like certain Wall Street speculators who threaten to "break the street"
in making their own fortunes.

Some natures can receive a fair lady's refusal with a good-natured shrug, as merely the result
of a bad venture, and hope for better luck next time; but to a greater number this is impossible,
especially if they are played with and deceived. Walter Gregory pre-eminently belonged to the
latter class. In early life he had breathed the very atmosphere of truth, and his tendency
to sincerity ever remained the best element of his character. His was one of those fine-fibred
natures most susceptible to injury. Up to this time his indiscretions had only been those of
foolish, thoughtless youth, while aiming at the standard of manliness and style in vogue among
his city companions. High-spirited young fellows, not early braced by principle, must pass
through this phase as in babyhood they cut their teeth. If there is true mettle in them, and
they are not perverted by exceptionally bad influences, they outgrow the idea that to be fast
and foolish is to be men as naturally as they do their roundabouts.

What a man does is often not so important as the state of the heart that prompts the act. In
common parlance, Walter was as good-hearted a fellow as ever breathed. Indeed, he was really
inclined to noble enthusiasms.

If Miss Bently had been what he imagined her, she might have led him swiftly and surely into
true manhood; but she was only an adept at pretty seeming with him, and when Mr. Grobb offered
her his vast wealth, with himself as the only incumbrance, she acted promptly and characteristically.

But perhaps it can be safely said that in no den of iniquity in the city could Walter Gregory
have received such moral injury as poisoned his very soul when, in Mr. Bently's elegant and
respectable parlor, the "angel" he worshipped "explained how she was situated," and from a
"sense of duty" stated her purpose to yield to the wishes of her friends. Gregory had often
seen Mr. Grobb, but had given him no thought, supposing him some elderly relative of the family.
That this was the accepted suitor of the girl who had, with tender, meaning glances, sung for
him sentimental ballads, who had sweetly talked to him of religion and mission work, seemed
a monstrous perversion. Call it unjust, unreasonable, if you will, yet it was the most natural
thing in the world for one possessing his sensitive, intense nature to pass into harsh, bitter
cynicism, and to regard Miss Bently as a typical girl of the period.

A young man is far on the road to evil when he loses faith in woman. During the formative period
of character she is, of earthly influences, the most potent in making or marring him. A kind
refusal, where no false encouragement has been given, often does a man good, and leaves his
faith intact; but an experience similar to that of young Gregory is like putting into a fountain
that which may stain and embitter the waters of the stream in all its length.

