While writing this account two theories have occurred to me as possibly true respecting this
most remarkable assault: First--The aim may have been simply to extort from me such admissions
as in the hands of money and influence would have sent me to the Penitentiary for libel.  This,
however, seems unlikely, because any statements elicited by fear or force could not be evidence
in law or could be so explained as to have no force.  The statements wanted so badly must have
been desired for some other purpose. Second--The other theory has so dark and wilfully murderous
a look that I shrink from writing it, yet as in all probability my death at the earliest practicable
moment has already been decreed, I feel I should do all I can before my hour arrives, at least
to show others how to break up that aristocratic rule and combination which has robbed all
Nevada of true freedom, if not of manhood itself.  Although I do not prefer this hypothesis
as a "charge," I feel that as an American citizen I still have a right both to think and to
speak my thoughts even in the land of Sharon and Winters, and as much so respecting the theory
of a brutal assault (especially when I have been its subject) as respecting any other apparent
enormity.  I give the matter simply as a suggestion which may explain to the proper authorities
and to the people whom they should represent, a well ascertained but notwithstanding a darkly
mysterious fact.  The scheme of the assault may have been:

First--To terrify me by making me conscious of my own helplessness after making actual though
not legal threats against my life.

Second--To imply that I could save my life only by writing or signing certain specific statements
which if not subsequently explained would eternally have branded me as infamous and would have
consigned my family to shame and want, and to the dreadful compassion and patronage of the rich.

Third--To blow my brains out the moment I had signed, thereby preventing me from making any
subsequent explanation such as could remove the infamy.

Fourth--Philip Lynch to be compelled to testify that I was killed by John B.  Winters in self-defence,
for the conviction of Winters would bring him in as an accomplice.  If that was the programme
in John B.  Winters' mind nothing saved my life but my persistent refusal to sign, when that
refusal seemed clearly to me to be the choice of death.

The remarkable assertion made to me by Mr. Winters, that pity only spared my life on Wednesday
evening last, almost compels me to believe that at first he could not have intended me to leave
that room alive; and why I was allowed to, unless through mesmeric or some other invisible
influence, I cannot divine.  The more I reflect upon this matter, the more probable as true
does this horrible interpretation become.

The narration of these things I might have spared both to Mr. Winters and to the public had
he himself observed silence, but as he has both verbally spoken and suffered a thoroughly garbled
statement of facts to appear in the Gold Hill News I feel it due to myself no less than to
this community, and to the entire independent press of America and Great Britain, to give a
true account of what even the Gold Hill News has pronounced a disgraceful affair, and which
it deeply regrets because of some alleged telegraphic mistake in the account of it.  [Who received
the erroneous telegrams?]

