2. That a government may be a working government, as it should be (s. iv., n. 2, p. 319), it
must not only make laws, but bear out and enforce its legislation by the sanction of punishment.
"If talk and argumentation were sufficient to make men well-behaved, manifold and high should
be the reward of talkers.... But in fact it appears that talking does very well to incite and
stimulate youths of fine mind; and lighting upon a noble character and one of healthy tastes,
it may dispose such a person to take up the practice of virtue: but it is wholly unable to
move the multitude to goodness; for it is not their nature to obey conscience, but fear, nor
to abstain from evil because it is wrong, but because of punishments. The multitude live by
feeling: they pursue the pleasures that they like and the means thereto, and shun the opposite
pains, but they have no idea, as they have had no taste, of what is right and fair and truly
sweet.... The man who lives by feeling will not listen to the voice of reason, nor can he appreciate
its warning. How is it possible to divert such a one from his course by argument? Speaking
generally, we say that passion yields not to argument but to constraint.... The multitude obey
on compulsion rather than on principle, and from fear of pains and penalties rather than from
a sense of right. These are grounds for believing that legislators, while exhorting to virtue
and putting certain courses of conduct forward as right and honourable, in the expectation
that good men will obey the call, as their habits lead them, should at the same time inflict
chastisements and punishments upon the crossgrained and disobedient; and as for the incurably
vicious, put them beyond the pale altogether. The result will be, that the decent and conscientious
citizen will listen to the voice of reason, while the worthless votary of pleasure is chastened
by pain like a beast of burden.... Law has a coercive function, appealing to force, notwithstanding
that it is a reasoned conclusion of practical wisdom and intelligence. The interference of
persons is odious, when it stands out against the tide of passion, even where it is right and
proper to interfere; but no odium attaches to statute law enjoining the proper course." (Aristotle,
Ethics, X., ix.)

3. Aristotle seems hard upon the masses, likening them to brutes who must be governed by the
whip. He may be supposed to speak from experience of the men of his time. If humanity has somewhat
improved in two and twenty centuries, yet it cannot be contended that the whip is grown unnecessary
and beyond the whip the sword. But we must observe a certain modus operandi of punishment which
Aristotle has not noted, a more human mode than the terror of slavish fear. Just punishment,
felt as such, stimulates the conscience to discern and abhor the crime. Men would think little
of outraging their own nature by excess, did they not know that the laws of God and man forbid
such outrage. Again, they would think little even of those laws, were not the law borne out
by the sanction of punishment. A law that may be broken with impunity is taken to be the toying
of a legislator not in earnest. Men here are as children. A child is cautioned against lying.
He reckons little of the caution: he tells a lie, and a flogging ensues. Thereupon his mind
reverts to what he was told: he sees that the warning was meant in earnest. He reflects that
it must have been a wicked thing, that lie which his father, the object of his fond reverence,
chastises so sternly. If the thing had been let pass, he would scarcely have regarded it as
wicked. Next time he is more on his guard, not merely because he fears a beating, but because
he understands better than before that lying is wrong. The awe in which grown-up people stand
of "a red judge," is not simple fear, like that which keeps the wolf from the flock guarded
by shepherds and their dogs: but they are alarmed into reflection upon the evil which he is
God's minister to avenge, and they are moved to keep the law, "not only for wrath, but for
conscience sake." From this we see that for punishment to be really salutary, its justice must
be manifest to the culprit, or to the lookers on, at least in their cooler moments. A punishment
the justice of which is not discernible, may quell for the moment, but it does not moralise,
nor abidingly deter. There must be an apparent proportion between the offence and the punishment.
A Draconian code, visiting petty offences with the severity due to high misdemeanours, is more
of an irritant than a represser of crime, because it goes beyond men's consciences.

4. There is in every human breast a strong sense of what the learned call lex talionis, and
children tit for tat. "If a man has done to him what he has done to others, that is the straight
course of justice;" so says the canon of Rhadamanthus, quoted by Aristotle. (Eth., V., v.,
3.) We have argued the fundamental correctness of this rule. (Ethics, c. ix., s. iii., n. 2,
p. 169.) It appears in the divine direction given to Nod: "Whoso sheddeth man's blood, his
blood shall be shed." (Gen. ix. 6.) It appears in that popular sentiment, which in some parts
of America displays itself in the lynching of murderers, who have unduly escaped the hands
of the law; and which, under a similar paralysis of law in Corsica, broke out in blood-feuds,
whereby the nearest relative of the deceased went about to slay the murderer. Such taking of
justice into private hands is morally unlawful, as we have proved. (Ethics, c. ix., s. iii.,
n. 4, p. 171; Natural Law, c. viii., s. ii., nn. 2, 3, pp. 308, 309.) It is a violent outburst
of a natural and reasonable sentiment deprived of its legitimate vent. Unquestionably then
there is an apparent and commonly recognized fairness of retribution in the infliction of capital
punishment for murder. Thus the first condition of appropriate punishment is satisfied, that
it be manifestly proportioned to the crime.

5. Capital punishment is moreover expedient, nay, necessary to the State. The right to inflict
it is one of the essential prerogatives of government, one of those prerogatives the sum of
which, as we have seen, is a constant quantity everywhere, (s. iv., n. 7, p. 322). No Government
can renounce it. The abolition of capital punishment by law only makes the power of inflicting
it latent in the State (s. iv., n. 8, p. 323); it does not and cannot wholly take the power
away. You ask: Is there not hope, that if humanity goes on improving as it has done, capital
punishment will become wholly unnecessary? I answer that--waiving the question of the prospect
of improvement--in a State mainly consisting of God-fearing, conscientious men, the infliction
of capital punishment would rarely be necessary, but the power to inflict it could never be
dispensed with. If men ever become so ideally virtuous, the right of the State to visit gross
crime with death cannot hurt them, and it will strengthen their virtue, as all human social
virtue will ever need strengthening.

6. The abiding necessity of this right of the sword is argued from the strength and frequency
of the provocations to deeds of bloodshed and violence that must ever be encountered in human
society. What these provocations are, how many and how strong, may be left to the reflection
of the student who reads his newspaper, or even his novel. Not the least appalling thing about
crime, atrocious crime especially, is the example that it gives and the imitators whom it begets.
It is not merely that it sets the perpetrator himself on the downward path, so that, unless
detected and punished, a man's first deed of blood is rarely his last: it draws others after
him by a fatal fascination. Like the images which the Epicureans supposed all visible objects
to slough off and shed into the air around them, such phantoms and images of guilt float about
a great crime, enter into the mind of the spectator and of the hearer, and there, upon slight
occasion, turn to actual repetitions of the original deed. The one preventive is to append
to that deed a punishment, the image of which shall also enter into the mind, excite horror,
and disenchant the recipient. This is not to be done by mere banishment of the criminal, nor
by his perpetual incarceration. Exile and prison--particularly in view of the humanity of a
modern penitentiary--do not sufficiently strike the imagination. One sweet hour of revenge
will often appear cheap at the price of ten years' penal servitude. There is nothing goes to
the heart like death. Death is the most striking of terrors; it is also the penalty that most
exactly counterpoises in the scales of justice the commission of a murderous crime. All States
need this dread figure of the Sword-bearer standing at the elbow of the Sovereign.

7. But is not every capital sentence a trespass upon the dominion of God, Lord of life and
death? No, for that same God it is who has endowed man with a nature that needs to grow up
in civil society, which civil society again needs for its maintenance the power to make laws,
to sit in judgment on transgressors, and in extreme cases, as we have proved, having tried
them and found them guilty, to take away even their lives, to the common terror and horror
of the crime. God, who wills human nature to be, wills it to be on the terms on which alone
it can be. To that end He has handed over to the civil ruler so much of His own divine power
of judgment, as shall enable His human delegate to govern with assurance and effect. That means
the right of the sword.

8. It may be objected that to kill any man is to treat him as a thing, not a person, as an
heterocentric, not an autocentric being, which is a proceeding essentially unnatural and wrong,
(c. ii., s. i., n. 2, p. 203.) St. Thomas's answer here is peculiarly valuable:

"Man by sinning withdraws from the order of reason, and thereby falls from human dignity, so
far as that consists in man being naturally free and existent for his own sake [autocentric];
and falls in a manner into the state of servitude proper to beasts, according to that of the
Psalm (xlviii. 15): Man when he was in honour did not understand: he hath matched himself with
senseless beasts and become like unto them; and Proverbs xi. 29: The fool shall serve the wise.
And therefore, though to kill a man, while he abides in his native dignity, be a thing of itself
evil, yet to kill a man who is a sinner may be good, as to kill a beast. For worse is an evil
man than a beast, and more noxious, as the Philosopher says." (2a 2a, q. 64, art. 2, ad 3.)

Hence observe:--(1) That a Utilitarian who denies free will, as many of that school do, stands
at some loss whence to show cause why even an innocent man may not be done to death for reasons
of State, e.g., as a sanitary precaution.

(2) That the State must come to a conclusion about inward dispositions by presumption from
overt acts, arguing serious moral guilt before proceeding to capital punishment. To this extent
the State is remotely a judge of sin. But it does not punish sin retributively as sin, nor
even medicinally. It punishes the violation of its own laws, to deter future offenders. 2,
3; 2a 2a, q. 108, art. 3.

SECTION IX.--Of War.

1. War, a science by itself, has no interest for the philosopher except as an instance on a
grand scale of self-defence. When the theory of self-defence has been mastered (c. ii. s. ii.,
p. 208), little further remains to be said about war. In a State, the self-defence of citizen
against citizen is confined to the moment of immediate physical aggression. But in a region
where the State is powerless and practically non-existent, self-defence assumes a far greater
amplitude. (S. ii., n, 2, p. 309.) When the Highland chief lifted the cattle of the Lowland
farmer, and the King of Scotland lay unconcerned and unable to intervene, feasting at Holyrood,
or fighting on the English border, then, if there were a fair hope of recovering the booty
without a disproportionate effusion of blood, the farmer did right to arm his people, march
after the robber, and fight him for the stolen oxen, as the gallant Baron of Bradwardine would
fain have done. (Waverley, c. xv.) Here is the right of self-defence in its full development,
including the right of private war. But in a private individual this is an undesirable, rank,
and luxuriant growth; and when the individual comes to live, as it should be his aim to live,
in a well-organized State, the growth is pruned and cut down: he may then defend himself for
the instant when the State cannot defend him; but after the wrong is done, he must hold his
hand, and quietly apply to the State to procure him restitution and redress. But there is no
State of States, no King of Kings, upon earth; therefore, when of two independent States the
one has wronged, or is about to wrong the other, and will not desist nor make amends, nothing
is left for it; Nature has made no other provision, but they must fight. They must fall back
upon the steel and the shotted gun, the ratio ultima regum.

2. The Lowland farmer above mentioned might be spoken of as punishing the Highland robber,
chastising his insolence, and the like. This is popular phraseology, but it is not accurate.
Punishment, an act of vindictive justice, is from superior to inferior. (Ethics, c. v., s.
ix., n. 4, p. 104.) War, like other self-defence, is between equals. War is indeed an act of
authority, of the authority of each belligerent State over its own subjects, but not of one
belligerent over the other. We are not here considering the case of putting down a rebellion:
rebels are not properly belligerents, and have no belligerent rights.

3. The study of Civil and Canon Law flourished in the Middle Ages, while moral science, which
is the study of the Natural Law, was still in its infancy. No wonder that the mediaeval jurists
occasionally formulated maxims, which can only be squared with the principles of Natural Law
by an exceeding amount of interpretation,--which are in fact much better dropped, quoted though
they sometimes be by moralists of repute. One such maxim is this, that a wrong-doer becomes
the subject of the injured party by reason of the offence. Admit this, and you can hardly keep
clear of Locke's doctrine of the origin of civil power, (s. ii., per totum, p. 307; cf. Suarez,
De Caritate, d. xiii., s. iv., nn. 5, 6).

