If any one can determine that they are saying what they are saying and doing what they are
doing they are determining that they are hearing what they are hearing and seeing what they
are seeing. This is not exciting, this can be annoying, this can be common, this can be convincing,
this can be perplexing, this can be repeating.

One and he was one and any one can be one and any one is one and any one being one being one
is being one, one was saying what he was saying and doing what he was doing and he was determining
what he was saying and determining what he was doing and he was hearing what he was hearing
and seeing what he was seeing.

If some one came and another one came and some one said and another one said and some one heard
and another one heard and some one saw and another one saw then there would be enough who were
dead if everybody came to be dead and there would be enough being living if every one were
living and certainly some did not see everything and some did not do everything and some did
not hear everything and some did not see everything and one said what another said and one
saw what another saw and one did what another did and one heard what another heard and one
came and another came and one left and another left and if everybody did what they did and
anybody came and if they did not see what they saw and if they heard what they heard then certainly
something had happened and something having happened some said what they said.

It was a happy way the way he stayed all day any day and he said, what did he say, he said
that he had gone and he had seen and that he would do what he liked to do and he liked to do
what he had arranged to feel he would do when he saw all there was to see.

In looking for everything and finding everything and asking any one to leave all that they
had and to give all they had some are seeing that they are seeing all that there is to be seen.

It was not satisfying, not upsetting, not amusing, not perplexing to say all that is being
said about any one having been feeling what that one was feeling.

Polly and she was not using all she had bought Polly was offering and forgetting to give what
she would give if she had had packed what she had taken up to pack. Polly did not remember
everything.

Anne Helbing is standing. Anne Helbing in standing was wearing what some would not be needing
to be wearing if they could stand without wearing them. Anne Helbing had them on and she was
standing, Anne Helbing was sitting, Anne had them on and was sitting. Anne told some one that
she had them on. Anne did not come back again and she was not suffering and she was working.
Anne was standing and sitting and was wearing the things she needed for standing.

George did not come when he had not had all that he would have had if he had gone everywhere
where he could go. He found a thing that he gave every one. He did not take what he intended
to take.

Henns was prospering that is to say he had a wife and a baby and he had been sick. This was
not all he had in being living and he thought about it and he did all that he did in getting
what he got.

Henns had a father and a brother. His father was prospering that is to say he married again
and he need not have done it then and he did not keep all that he kept when he continued in
not being annoying. The brother, Henns had a brother, the brother was prospering. He was directing
everything he was directing and he was accidentally dying. Henns did not come back when he
was where he was and he did not continue when he did what he did and he was prospering when
he received what he received and when he did not expect to have any more children. He did not
have very many children.

Antliss was not successful in urging every one to be the one hearing what every one could be
hearing. Antliss was not successful. Antliss expected that some who were not successful would
be continuing feeling what they were feeling. They were feeling what they were feeling. Antliss
was not successful, he was holding all he was expecting to be able to hold. He was urging all
he could urge in explaining the way he was explaining that he was feeling what every one is
feeling.

Some are dead and if they had heard that said they would not repeat that they were dead.

Sender came and he said that those who were not dead had not said what some said they said.
Sender did not stay long. Sender intended to come again. He would come again. When he came
again he would say something of what some who were not dead had not said.

All who are tired and are hearing what they are hearing are expecting to be hearing that some
one who is waiting is going to ask if he will be visited. It is a very difficult thing being
tired and hearing what one is hearing when some are not asking what they might be asking.

It is easy to begin again if repeating is anything and repeating being existing it is a difficult
thing to commence answering something and commencing answering is all of that easy thing and
that easy thing is existing.

All who have left have not come again and coming again they are saying that it is an easy thing
not to hear what they are hearing, not to repeat what they are repeating.

It is kindly to be friendly, it is pleasant to be repeating, it is agreeable to be returning
having been answering, it is charming that some one says something, it is pleasing that some
one has heard something, it is disturbing that some one has not been expecting something, it
is astonishing that some one has forgotten something, it is disappointing that some one is
not saying that he has not seen what he has seen, it is saddening that some one has put something
back and has gone then and has come to leave nothing that he had when he came. It is enough
to please any one that every one who has come has not said all that they say when they come
again. It is not amusing when two who have come have gone. It is not disturbing when three
who have come and gone have asked a question. It is not interesting when some one who is pleasing
has pleasantly explained everything.

If in having told a thing one has been appreciated then one can want not to tell it again and
one can tell it again and one can be interesting then and one can be not very interesting then.
It is exciting to be tired and to tell all that has been told. It is exciting to be tired and
to be not expecting anything. It is exciting to be tired and to sit and tell all about everything
any one is doing. It is exciting to be tired.

If it were pleasing to be enjoying one could enjoy something and one could say that they had
heard all that they heard. If it is not pleasing to be enjoying and if it is not pleasing is
it continuing, if it is not pleasing to be enjoying and one is hearing what one is hearing
then certainly if there is any purpose in enjoying being pleasing then it is easy enough not
to be enjoying.

Is it or isn't it pleasing not to be enjoying and if it is is it continuing and if it is not
is it continuing. If it is what it is then it is easy enough for it to stay where it stays
and if it stays where it says is it what it has been. Donger saw what he said meant something
and he said that if it meant something he was doing what he did not intend to do and he did
not intend to finish everything he began. Donger said that he saw what he said meant something
and he did know that when he asked if something was something he did know that an answer would
come and if it came it might not come again. If it came again and an answer that came might
come again it might be the thing that would determine him to ask something that he had just
asked. Donger said that he knew that what he said had that meaning.

Donger knew enough to remember that if something is something he could ask what he would ask
if, he knew what he knew. Donger knew and asked and he said perhaps it is perhaps it isn't
and he said that if he asked and something is something it was very well for him to have asked
what he hoped to ask.

They all liked asking that any one who decides what is decided decides, when it is to be decided
that that which is to be decided is to be decided. They all ask and they all do not refuse
and they all do not hear and they all stay and they all stand and they all open what has been
open when anything that is open is open. If they do not like it they will ask so that they
can not like it and when they can not like it it is enough that they have seen enough to have
seen what they have seen. It is not very likely that any of them felt that it would be finished
in the way it came to be finished. It is not very likely.

Enough of them who walk walk quickly and so there are very many. There being very many and
very many not walking there are very many.

If he told each one what each one wanted to know who asked him who had come he would have to
tell each one what he told the one who had just asked him. And he did this thing.

Any one talking and every one talking and any one laughing and every one laughing might be
meaning that they were feeling that some one was a funny one. This is not certain.

Not like that is the other way and like that is the same way and all are not doing again, walking.
Walking is sounding and talking is existing.

Pulling and going is regularly sounding and answering is intermittently continuing. Running
and disappearing and gesticulating and waiting is happening.

Being proud and easily pleased and surprised and amused and quiet and quickly walking and sufficiently
eating is regularly sounding.

Talking and not turning and answering and not seeing is quietly continuing. Waving and showing
what is imitating is copying some one.

A little one preparing is a little one expressing and a little one expressing is a little one
discovering and discovering is saying what is truly efficiently existing and saying what is
truly efficiently existing is describing what everything badly chosen is lacking.

He was pleased to hear that we ate all we ate. He was pleased to hear that we left what we
left. He was pleased to hear that we had been where we had been. He was pleased to hear that
we asked what we asked. He was pleased to hear that we knew what we knew. He was pleased to
hear that all had looked at what they had looked.

He who made a motion to call some one made a noise and then he said that he had been misunderstood
and he said that he would repeat what he had said and then he said that he had not been understood
and that he would not ask what he had asked. He said that he knew what he would not hear and
that he would not ask again.

If all did what they turned to do they would all stay where ever they went and all staying
any one going away would notice something. That is enough to make any one remember all of the
thing that was seen when some did not do so quickly as some one else would do something that
one had come to do.

If the one saying all was saying then saying all would be the thing that not every one who
was saying all would then say. Enough is said if every one is saying all.

If every one is saying all and every one is saying after waiting is saying we are coming, we
are going, we are meeting then every one is saying what each one is saying and each one is
saying everything that each one is saying. This is enough to please all and all are not pleased
when all are pleased. All are pleased and nicely pleased and completely pleased when all are
all pleased and all are not pleased not quite pleased when each one doing what each one is
doing each one is not seeing that any one doing what any one is doing is doing and a nice house
where some have come and a house not so nice where some have come, all of it and any of it
is what is not annoying and each one has eaten what has left in them all that has come out
of them if they face a way which is the other way they were facing when they were facing the
way they were facing when they were facing the other way.

One not being running was not being deserted. One not being waiting was not being deserted.
One not interfering was receiving what the other one had who had what she naturally had and
she would have what she naturally had if she could have what she would naturally have.

If refusing is easily done then it is to be done as it is done when it has come to be done
so that some one will say to all, do not do so.

It is very high up and yet to be so high is not to say that that is likely to be heavy if it
is built lightly enough so that falling is not easy.

Falling is not easy and it is not easy when there is a river that is bigger than it is where
it is smaller and it is not easy when there are ways of hearing enough sounds that make all
the little things come together who were scattered until they were called. Falling is not easy.

It is impossible to disturb every one and yet it is done when anything which is walking is
appearing. It is done and then that is not ended not at all ended. It is done and some little
thing is not completed when it is done. Not enough is left then to remain where any one had been.

Not any of all who were not wrong were right and that could have been what some were saying
if all were not saying what they saw when they looked where they fell.

They did not fall all over the pleasant sound that was being sung. They did not fall and they
did not sit and they walked pretty well and in walking they had not all the sizes they would
have. They had sizes that were larger and they had sizes that were smaller.

The ones who clap when they laugh and laugh when they look mean that that they clap when they
laugh and laugh when they look.

They all, all who saw while they heard what they heard, all were there and remained until they
were not to stay where they were any longer.

There was enough of all that had been done again to start all those who were started to come
again. They all came again. They came again and they sat while they heard what they heard and
saw all of some of what they saw.

If some one was not liking doing something more it was not because that one was feeling all
of more being more it was because that one had not had what she had not had when she had wanted
what she had wanted.

Finishing not wasting any little thing is beginning not wasting any little thing. It is enough
that all who are finishing not wasting any little thing are bowing when what has been living
has come to be dead by rolling over after kneeling. It is enough that some who are finishing
not wasting any little thing are waiting and doing very little moving when what is dying has
not been dead enough to be rolling.

They have something growing those who are finishing wasting any little thing and if that which
is growing is showing it is a completing thing, a strangely completing thing.

If one has a thing that on the front of him is browning and he is proceeding and meaning is
existing, that is if he is the one and any one is proceeding then he is the one and he is proceeding.

If they did not like it they would do it and this was not lightly why there were three of them
sitting and this was not uneasily why three were standing and this was not suddenly why five
of them were coming and this was not entirely why all of them were waiting.

They who had a house and had all of it were the ones who had enough of it to come out and in
and to do it often. If there were three of them three houses there were all of them all of
the three houses three houses.

If making a little movement such as nodding is done then it is a custom that any one meeting
any one is not talking if they have not met that one. If they look if every one looks and has
not said that he is feeling then all of them are doing what they are doing because they have
not come to say what they could say if they had come to say what they would say. This is in
a way a pleasant way of walking and disappearing. This is in a way a way of feeling that what
is happening is surprising. This is in a way a way of not regretting everything.

If in leaving some one is leaving then in having been disappearing some one has been disappearing
and has not been saying that he has said what he said he would say if he saw what he would
have seen if there had been what there would have been if there was what there was as there
was not.

A tiny violent noise is a yellow happy thing. A yellow happy thing is a gentle little tinkle
that goes in all the way it has everything to say. It is not what there was when it was not
where it is. It is all that it is when it is all that there is.

If she who was lifting the thing that lifting was lifting she was arranging putting anything
where she was arranging putting what she was arranging. If putting a thing that can be cutting
where some one is jumping is disconcerting it is a neat thing that not any one is being quite
cut then. It is a delicate thing that hanging down something is a gentle thing. It is a lively
thing that moving and clapping is a measured thing. It is a queer thing that singing is a common
thing. It is an amusing thing that two are where they are when they were not where they were.

If they are what they are and they intend what they do and they offer what you use and they
wear what they wear then it is naturally all that they mean when they do not say that they
are strange every day. They move the way they go as they do not stay together in not at all
leaving one another. They do not manage it then when they are standing and mounting anything
they are riding. They need not be the last of it all and they need not have been an irregular
thing a thing not regularly living.

If saying that being is existing is meaning that feeling is existing, then talking when talking
is happening is telling what is being told by telling. Any sound that is louder or not so loud
is one that is happening when that sound is coming.

It is not necessary that a light that is changing is coming and going. It is necessary that
a sound that is continuing is coming from the two who are sighing.

Likely to be familiar and not likely to be strange, very likely to be the same and quite likely
to be dark, likely enough to have it light and very likely to have it strong, any way that
is likely is very likely to be old and every way that is likely is quite likely to be curling
and all that is likely is that it will not be different.

In turning a little thing into a little little thing and rolling what was walking, it is not
enough to be certain that it happening is not anything, it is necessary to do it, quite do
it again.

Multiplying is not adding, that is to say it is adding and adding is not marking, adding is
not bowing, adding is not laughing, adding is that which walking comes to be sitting and not
expecting all of any attention. Adding is not complicating. Adding is teasing. Adding is a
division of three and one and that would make four if all of adding was subtracting.

A little way is longer than waiting to bow. Not bowing is longer than waiting longer. It would
sadly distress some powder if looking out was continual and sitting first was happening and
leaving first was persisting. It would not change the color, it would not harmonise with yellow,
it would not necessitate reddening, it would not destroy smiling, it would not enlarge stepping,
it would not widen a chair or arrange a cup or conclude a sailing, it would not disappoint
a brown or a pink or a golden anticipation, it would not deter a third one from looking, it
would not help a second one to fasten a straighter collar or a first one to dress with less
decision, it would not distress Emma or stop her from temperately waiting, it would not bring
reasoning to have less meaning, it would not make telling more exciting, it would not make
leaving necessitate losing what would be missing, it would though always mean that three and
one are not always all that remain if ten remain and eight are coming.

They always thought that they did all eat what was said to be what was given to them. They
did not fail themselves then.

If the color is not dark and it is dark but is not predestined, if the color is dark and the
passing away of walking is not too quick then all that was expected from asking was that what
had been done had not had any way of laughing. That was what was left when there had been all
that was not meaning that what was dark had come to be dark as it was dark as it had been dark.
It was not lighter.

The only feeling that is she is the way she did not see and she did lean she did quite lean
alone. She did not desert the reward and she had it all and she did bow and there was there
where she went there was there certainly all of not needing to be refusing having her relieve
saying good evening. She did not have it all on and there could be more and often when she
was there she wore that which was where she was and it was not all cut from the same place
and that was not ceasing to be intending to be completing being leaning and she was leaning
and she was not refusing needing to be keeping addressing bowing. She magnified repeating being
existing in repeating. She did not repeat speaking. She did not deny good evening. She did
not repeat leaning alone in leaning where she was not without not leaning being existing.

All who stayed long enough and talked said what they said. He who talked did not say what he
said because he had been the one who had come to stay away. And this was not anything. He liked
having it and he liked asking to leave it.

All of them were not alone. The way to be alone, the way to stand and walk, the way to sit
and look, the way to talk, all of it is not beguiling and passing away is a way to complain.

Very likely they did not have a little more those who had and have what they have. Very likely
the ones they know are the ones they know. Very likely it would not do any harm to say what
they say as they do say what they say. Very likely they can laugh when they laugh and very
likely they like what they like when they like what they like.

It is always a way to say that going away is a way in going away.

If stumbling is continuing then a side-walk is restoring. If a side-walk is restoring then
eating is satisfying. If eating is satisfying then undertaking is beguiling. If undertaking
is beguiling then shooing is concentrating. If shooing is concentrating then resounding is
destroying. That is the way to sleep.

If a piece that is longer is longer and stirring is wetting then surely no one need know anything.

To refuse is the way to refuse all the way and there is enough and to spare when in being asked
to take what is given not being there is all there is of not having had anything. Quantities
are not lost when there is satisfaction and yet there is the whole way of counting and there
is some way of retiring. Nevertheless it cannot be seen that the way to remove what is not
seen is not the way that washing makes plain. It is slightly difficult to have what is being
had and to say that sleeping is sleeping a little any day. It is not thoughtful to think that
the way to make a sound is by hearing a roaring that may be a mingling and certainly is existing.

All the perplexity of congratulation is removed when two are talking and are saying that they
are not where they were. They have been moving and they saw one and pleasantly took something
and they did not see one and this had to do with eating. Particularly undertaking refusing
everything is a means that is wholesome when health and wealth is not deteriorating. All that
can be included is not all that is withheld and rashly enough the water that came all flowed
away. There was then a happy ending.

If two talking together are saying that they have not been together when each one saw something
then they are not always listening, they are sometimes tired. This is enough so so that two
can be married.

One is the one who came and looked down and did not frown and could walk longer if the way
which is long is harder. This one who did walk went back again and said that that which was
seen was peculiar. The one who did not walk would walk longer and did walk and did see that
thing and did say that perhaps it was peculiar but it did not matter as it would not be seen
again and certainly not longer. They were not opposing listening neither the one or the other
who was talking. They were not asking it again as much and this was the way of arranging that
there was not to be all there was of future. They took a walk together and they came oftener
and they were not hidden by the light that made a flicker. They had undertaken enough.

It was a lovely way and the man who stood was slow and the hidden thing that was clearly seen
was climbing in between. If either was together and the two were all then it was not only lightly
but delicately and completely and astonishment never can be expressive.

Altogether to look and pronounce that conversation is not pleasing is the way to accept responsibility
and to have children. This is not alarming. It is happening every day when the dining room
is changing.

If the child is bigger and the noise comes quicker then the part that is standing is lifted
and the noise is not continuing. When the way to remove what is lying has been seen then a
little one that has an apron ties a string and lying on anything is sleeping. This is not occupying
all of anything. Actually there has been a condition. Actually there is a condition. Actually
all of them are together. They are there and are there where they stand and sit and look often.
They are continuing.

If the accumulation of inexpediency produces the withdrawing of the afternoon greeting then
in the evening there is more preparation and this will take away the paper that has been lying
where it could be seen. All the way that has the aging of a younger generation is part of the
way that resembles anything that is not disappearing. It is not alright as colors are existing
in being accommodating. They have a way that is identical.

Charging the admission is not the only way of doing. Opening the falling and seeing the illuminating
is not the only way of whitening. The oily half of the higher place is the hard things that
do not get in and remain. They change what is darker and they make louder what is regular.
They keep together and separate later. That is all of the rest. The half that sleep are opening
what is receiving. The two parts are enough together to be closer. They are not seeking anything
that is muddier. Something is running and the sound is not increasing. It is loud enough to
wet the thing that is beginning. It is not undertaking to see what is seen. Sleeping is continuing.
Joining is quite soothing. All ways are remarking something. It is again. It is where it has
been. One again and one again and that is everything as that is something. All of the eating
is beginning. One two has it. That is often. There is no remaining that there is complaining.
It is filling.

Standing and expressing, opening and holding, turning and meaning, closing and folding, holding
and meaning, standing and fanning, joining and remaining, opening and holding.

It is a way the way to say that being finished is all of waking, it is a way to say that not
doing again what is being done again is a way of intending to assist an only one. It is not
too distracting to be there where closing is coming before opening. It is the only way to know
everything. It can be done. All of the way is that way. Hardly ever is there more perfection.
All perfection is increasing. This is stimulating and causing sleeping. One is there in the
beginning and is finding interrupting to be decreasing. That one is recommending saluting.
That one is not disappointed. That one is obliging. That one is remaining the complete expression
of knowing everything. That one is there and there is that one.

A heavy way to pass that way is not the last way to pass that way. Passing that way is passing
away. It is being done again.

When the twin is not one and there has been a fat one the thin one is not losing delicate existing.
Singing is everything.

A far away place is near the place that is having the carriage standing. Any one driving is
bumping. That is the only way of returning excepting walking.

A simple way of remaining away is not to say that the only way of passing the day is waiting
for what has come to stay. It is not so very long and then any one can join. They do join,
that one is the one used to beginning and she is not moving where the light is not shining.
This is not a habit it is the way that changes some day when any change is repeating what each
one has been saying.

Which did she put in and take out again and which did she put in and leave in and what did
she say when she did put everything away and what did she say when everything was not put away.
She said that she was not suffering. She said it was fatiguing. She said she was not worrying.
She said she would not ever do it again. She said she would not leave anything. She said she
would finish something in the morning. She said she did not mean to begin again. She said she
was not satisfied with everything. She said she did not care to repeat what she had said. She
said she would be obliging. She said that that was not surprising. She said that she did not
have any such feeling. She did do everything. She was succeeding. She was pleasing.

She could not be saying that authorising something was believing that she was not having what
she was having. Now I have it. Now I see. This is the way. Not that way. The other way is not
the way.

A lively way to call is to run and call and a lively way to stand is to stand. A very lively
way to say what is to say is to say that a happy way to go away is to pay when there is something
that can come to be there where there will not be any way to say that there will not be pay.
He came back and offered enough so that when he heard what there was he could advise that they
had a precious thing. He did scold some. He was not too neglectful when he went where there
was not any smiling. He adjoined where there was no indication of the meaning of acquisition.
He was all the same not tormented. He did not tolerate the rest. He did not refuse that. He
chose where he would leave what he had hoped to choose. He did say everything. He told all that.

If there is not a duplicate when there is every way of telling that the time is changing then
it is very satisfying. There is the most complete way of moving when some one disappearing
has been calling. The sound that is left is not so loud as the sound that would be left if
all the rest of the way was open. This is not enough to make any one really unhappy.

If the little way was that way and the smell remained it would be nice to smell tobacco. This
is not the only mixture. Something else is pleasing.

Half of all that which is the matter is the part that is the rest of the disturbance and it
is not a bother, not at all, it does not matter and that is a simple matter, it is very simple,
it comes to be that when there is enough left and there is enough left when everything is there
and when everything is there that causes all that kind of pleasure and all that kind of pleasure
means it all. He was not very much afraid and this was not the way he meant to say that he
was prettily drawn this is the way he meant to say that he agreed to follow and discover all
that often. He was a medium sized but not like that in saying enough. He was the best of all.
He was there and he did not dispute that he saw all he saw. He was not obliging. There were
there they same. They satisfied that. They were equitable. They were not lenient. They were
there. They placed that. This is the same.

Water did not make all the best curves, it did some curving, it used to make a noise, that
is not the only way of washing, soap and some kinds that smell are not the same as the best
perfume. This is not the best way to be loving. There is a way to be loving. The way to be
loving is to do that and not to say that something is something. That is not the only way of
having a feeling of having to sit where the sun is shining. The only way to say what is the
meaning of anything is to say that thing and say it every morning and evening and in between
and in between there will be the whole day and a day is a kind of a day and a kind of a day
comes when there will not be again such a one. It is very likely that the raising of the beginning
is the saddest thing to keep continuing. It is very likely that all the better will be coming.
It is certainly establishing that which will be succeeding. The water will be sweeter and the
soap has some intention. There is a lively winning of establishing completely that which is
continuing when one and that one is the one who says what is said and that one will do that
will say it all, will be deciding something and something being anything, anything is everything.
It is the best way that way which is that way and that way is establishing everything. All
is alike. That is not decided. All being alike control is the arrangement. One can say the
same. One sees all that.

The card said that the whole thing was the right size, and it was disappointing that it was
not there. The card did not say everything.

All holy and walking and all the rest not passing the two were certainly saying that the whole
evening was ending. They did not dispute that. They had the principle of not being astounding.
They were not wonderful. They admired half of what was all there was. There was enough. They
did not leave it all. They were the only ones to say that they saw the little things that did
not eat any little piece. It was undertaken. It was not done. They saw some looking. They did
not change their expression.

Pocketing by the pocket having in it what is in it is the illustrious way of seeing the lights
that are lit and seeing the spots that are black. All the sun and the moon and the clouds and
the lights together can not help all the people who are living some where else where it is
comfortable for some who say that they like to see what they see. They did not change the heavy
horses and the quick carriages and the whistling train and the lights that are lit, they did
not change the best flowers and fruits and cake, they did not dislike the kind of stones that
were shown where they were shown. They did not. They mentioned everything. This is the way
to say that they are not saying anything to-day.

Leading the rain through the thing that is open and making it wet where the smell has been
smelling is the hardest way to kill the whole bull that is charging in and running. It is not
losing everything in losing all the blood that is oozing. It is goring. It is not distressing.
That is one way to delay what is happening when it happens that day. They all waved something.
That was not everything. They did the rest. They remained, they had all the noise. They did
not disturb him and he was one who was exciting and he was excited then. He held all that open.
He went telling that he was always willing. He did not repeat being winning. He received all
the sum and he said all that made him sad. He did not advise anything. He was not there to
be the only one. He said he knew that. He did not leave the ring. He was obliging. He did not
do anything. He said he did not do anything. It was not a test. He knew all the rest. He had
done the same. It had been startling. He was not subdued. He did not come distinguishing any
one from every other one. He was between some one and some other one. He did move away. He
said that that was all there was to do. He showed what he held up so that any one could see
what there was there. He was not refusing it. He did not say all there was to say. He was not
tired.

If the reason that the way that is the leaning in the writing is the time when the little that
is all that is four is the most that there is and there can be all which is the most then the
best which is the one is the thing that is the four those four and there will be more. A hundred
and the ball and the rest and a ball and a little one who is not staring, and the sound that
is there where there is not too much air is the pretty sound that comes when the only one says
what is said about air and sounds and heads. This is the best way and so there is the time
and there is all that and there is more and more is enough and there is what will be wanted
and it will be all the same and not any more is gone when more is there where every where everything
is all there. That is enough and so much, such a thing, why the way it is made is the way it
and really there can be all that. In the time there is that time which is all of the whole
of it where there is not anything that is not where there is one and one is that one and one.
A loud sound is louder than any other way a sound is loud.

Alarming looking at each one has begun. That is not the only way to stay away. The rest of
the way is gone when there is none who are pleasing to some one who is one of the two of them
and they are both agreeing. The necessity of not using everything is what keeps them staying.

They did come. They came and it was the way they said they had stayed that made the little
one who sat where there was a seat eat what he ate. He ate that and it was not the only way
to ask for a pencil, it was almost the best half of the whole that made them answer that the
one who had changed had been fatter. They said he had looked as if he were fat when he was
fatter, they said they were altogether. They meant that her name was Lucy. They did not remember
to say it. It was not complicated. Everybody was not tired.

Half of the little piece was enough and if there was a quick movement there would not be any
change as the four who came would not come often. That was the very friendliest thing to do
to have a little pew and not to sit in it and not to keep still a minute and to have a bed
and to have it said that the bed is not the best bed that was made when there were not left
any beds that had marble that was not colder than some other that was not marble when it was
where they saw it. It was not the only bone the piece that was left when the day passed and
in the evening it was late, it was not the only piece there was when the little one said that
he would not stay to eat if he was to be taken away to go to bed. They all ate something and
they knew it was wet. Yesterday had not been away. That was not easy not to say. They did say
that they had not been away.

All across the best of the wall space there is the place that is where the pretty thing is
and not alone is it there not alone, it is not there. This is not what he said. He came to
say that he knew that all that that meant was that he had done very well to keep all those
he kept because if it did happen that he meant to keep away he would not have all that which
he said he had and he did not mean to refuse everything he meant to finish very nicely. He
did say that. He had been agreeable. This was not the last time that he had the place finished.
Certainly not.

Able to answer he said that he was looking as he had to stay where there was what he saw, he
said that he liked flowers, he said that if he whom he did not like to have living was rich,
anything was awful. He did not hesitate then. He came alone. That was nicer then, he did not
say that he had written the rest. If there was shown a piece that took up all that space he
would not part with it. He would not part with any of it. Any day that was yesterday would
keep bringing what he needed. He knew that he had that little way. He said that he did not
hear anything. He came to remember a country that had been seen.

He was not the only one to have the meaning that a cold day that is darker is darker. He did
not underestimate the last of production. He did say that he did not get any pleasure when
one was showing what there was. He did not wish to go. It was not the rest. He did not refuse
to repeat everything.

It was a likely day to hear the music play the day when the little one was not any larger.
She did decide the very wide street to avoid and she did not say how prettily they play. She
did not hesitate any. She was not the tallest who sat there. She was the distinct expression
of the only decision. She was the leader of the exercise that expressed that the way to do
is not the only way to stay. She was remarkable.

How sweetly the tune that is written is saying that obeying is meaning that apologising is
not beautifying. How sweetly the tune that is winning is expressing that regretting is not
necessitating repetition. How nicely there is agreeing when leaning is not forbidden. How sweetly
is repeating expressing that feeling is pleasing. How tenderly is the expression expressing
that all of it is saluting the whole of that which is the same as that which is what is when
changing is not dividing. It is nicely done.

Not to ask the way when there is nothing else to say is the only way to stay away. A longer
one is not shorter. He can have a beard.

A lovely decision is the marvelous hope when the refusal is sullen and the fire is going, a
better piece of light is going when there has been admiration for a piece that has been showing.
Then turning away is the way to give all the rest of the description of the reason that the
whole piece is together and has that meaning. I did not like her. She was not unpleasant. She
was not the only one to say that she did not know that I did that. It was not a reputation.
She was not antagonistic.

If there is no time to have the predestination, there can be half of all that there is when
there is all they have. They like living. They say they are not hot. They say that the way
to smell is to have the same thing stay that is touched when touching is not diminishing. They
need the bath-room. They are not healthy. They have light and heat.

A remarkable exhibition was the one that showed that an aptitude for delineation is the same
as adjustment. It was admitted that having explained that there would be undertaken a readjustment.
The end was outlined. The completion was distinguished. The relative actuality was not detailed.
There was precedence. There was not lingering. There was the article that was not destroying.
There was that meaning. There was the description. These did have what there was no need to
occupy. There came to be that.

If the potatoe was there and the light were bright then it would be sweet to be clean and to
have the same seat. It is always necessary to carry the same piece of bread and butter. It
is nicely brown and yellow and prettily sticking together that with what it is when it is where
it is and it is where it is as it is only where it is. It is the particular attraction by which
it is the piece that is eating and being eaten. It is mentionable. It is not deceptive. It
is the practice of everything. It is what is necessary.

If the travelling has a way of stopping the staying where there is continuation then certainly
there has been that there is what is when there is that time and condition. This is enough
to begin that satisfaction and commence that finishing.

In the part of the gold piece that has a bright center there is the little place that hurts.
It is the sweetest way to be any way.

The article that in sitting is slowly telling that starting is not happily achieving the blameworthy
criterion of arresting all abomination, the particle there is when there is diminishing the
precipitation there is when the parting is not nearing, all the exchange which is not returning
is affording that illusion. It is not darkened.

Kindly let the person who in the pleasure is not accepting repudiating anything, kindly let
the one who is not anticipating accompany herself then, kindly say something. She who is not
destroyed is not obliging to be refusing to reform what she is offering. She is not urgent.
She has not that participation. It is not altered when the time is increased and the balancing
is not upsetting when there is all that disagreement. There is not compensation. She who is
likely is possibly likely.

If he who threw it gaily was sitting he changed some position when he gave some direction.
He was younger.

There is the piece that is open and there is what there is commencing and there is not any
obstacle and there will not be any disposal.

If there is a high way and the pleasure of it is there when the lower is sounding then the
evening is not finishing and standing is passing. It is not silent.

The grammar that is used is that which has that same way and it darkens that piece which is
every piece. It is not the penetration that brings it all about. It is the loneliness that
is what is the only way to say that the blue eyes are the same and when there is not any change
from any name. It is possible.

The bargaining that is not coming when there is not that decision is what has been suppressed.
It will not happen.

The evening when the light piece is blacker and the darkness has not come to engage anything
is the satisfying shining. It is lying and there it is the best when there is not that prediction.
It is not a position.

If there are two and there is one there and another in the other direction then slightly being
pleased is to be happy. There is that reason for not using the light that is to be burning.
There is such a simple way to say that breathing is that satisfaction. There is some pleasure.
This is the nature. That is the sound. There is the place.

If the particular objection is that there is a long time to keep that ready which has to be
used when there is that waiting then the whole situation is the same when the garden is full
and the objects are separated by a piece of paper. The rain does not hurt everything. It can
be cold.

It is a steady bargain that which takes every one away. It is not the only place to praise.

All the appetite that makes that little pain is not so far ahead when the change is imminent.
The one had that abandonment. It took all that concentration.

He did not leave enough to establish the whole fire-place. This was braging. He had all that
to authorise.

Evading and then relaxing and then stipulating and then hearing that there is a protection
is not the whole way to have it said that there has been laughing.

There where the voice is parting it is not changing the meaning. It is the same. It has that
elongation.

The president who has that definition is the one who has that decoration. He is not placid.
He is not discourteous. He is not robust.

He who wondered heard the listening and he was not distracted. He had that intimate progression.
It was not a party.

A best feeling is that which if that one has not been adding is what that one is hoping to
be smiling. He was not tender. If he was simple he saw the way to ask not to have that which
would be paid be paid away. He did not come to get that pay. He used it all. He had not that
hope. He was begetting bargaining. He had that intention. He was predicting succeeding.

A lot of dark ways are cheerful. They predict assuagement. It is not past the time when all
that has been sent has bought a loud sound. A loud sound is not artificial. There can be enjoying
satisfaction.

Let him see that in leading he has the sound that he is hearing. Let him do that and the time
he says he takes away is what he says needs tender breathing. He is the best of all the poor
and he is the most startling when he is not alone. He describes everything.

The far help that teaching is not deceiving is urging him to repeat that Isadore is money.
He does not deny that of Lisa. He does not pass away.

A little piece cut off is not added if the piece of grain is using that emotion. There is not
that way to stay.

If we go away we say that we go away because if we stay we stay away from there where we would
be if we were where we were as we are when we are there. We are not there. We do not say that
we do not stay.

A way to say the way to go is the way to say that she is there. That is the place that is not
occupied. What dexterously indicate the augmentation. It is not a precipice. Please the practice
and the sight remains restless. That is not the discomfort of every name. It is almost enough
to destroy a place. It is enormous. It is not rushing.

If the banner which is not hung waves gently that does not mean that the only way to say that
there must come to be a drum is the best way to put all the pages in the paper. It is harder
to hit the sitting position than to stand up the way to stand up in being tried. This does
not mean that all that is mixed has the salt taste that pepper has.

The whole meeting has that noise and the noise not following some one is talking.

There Harriet has come. She did that so well that enough sitting was so wholesome that Jane
did not go away. She did not have that idea.

Emma was not that one who said that she had been looking for some one. She was the one that
had the same warm cloak that was hers when she bought her clothing and she had enough money
that did not mean that if William were waiting he would not stand on the end of his ulster.
He did not have that diagram. All the cabs were open. This did not make the night colder. This
did not show the Lutetia.

A practical lesson is one that is given.

Come to the edge of the border and there with enough crocheting any one who is hard of hearing
can come to have a subdued voice. A little iron comes to take that place and that is not a
discovery. A sign is enough to destroy that invention.

He and she were sitting there and he and she were not comforting everywhere where there is
a chair. They did not put a little piece there where there was a chair. They did not feel what
they did when the name that had used all of the time was mentioned. They were not employed
in looking.

Let the best way of saying how do you do occupy the morning and the evening. This will not
fill all the time. Happy day.

Ask the two to look at the table. One is not always looking. The other has that astonishment.
Something has changed. That is what would be the defence if any one saw that she was flatter.
She had the smile and it was not lightening all her evenings. They were not always too hot.
They closed the heater.

Come and see the baking that does not trouble the oven and the kitchen. There is not time to
have the whole of all that glass and yet surely the day is not darker than the rest of the
evening. To open the door is not to lose that look of there being some change and surely there
is enough to worry any one. She is anywhere.

He had not that plan and he was quite young. That did not make him speak french. He spoke it
quicker. In that way he was attracting having all of the feeling that passing being a worker
was giving to him.

She who was not resplendent was so honest that if she gave it all away she made it cleaner.
She did not look that way. She was using that attraction and she was not so orderly that she
did not own everything. She could go away any way.

A longer brown when there is a chair there is what gives that long meaning to that extreme
extension. If it happens and there is any way than certainly to stay is to stay away and that
is the plan when any certain one is the certain one that says he says he has all that there
can have been and is of that which is some plan. There is not that defeat.

The sight that is the same as that hearing is the one that takes enough of all that evening
and so the whole which is what there is when ten have that leaning is the weight and the height
and the volume and there is all there is of ten who are enough there.

They are there and the entrance is there where there is that air. They have not come in to
fill the time together they have the same invention and that is all there is of that distraction.

Passing that expression they have all there is of what there is in some indication. They have
not that which is the same expression. This is that position.

A lame way to say that the day is not that time and to stay away is that intention is to repeat
one question, to repeat that extension. He said that he could not go to bed and he would not
stay away because any day is a cold day. He said all he said and then he came in. He was in
and he said that he said that same and that different thing. He did not accuse that of being
all of that thing. He said he was distributing that extinction.

Pull it there and sit on that chair that is to say put out the hand and walk forward and not
push away what is not there where there is that decoration. A longer stay and later going away
and giving the attention where the hand is extending that thing is not filling every one with
anything.

Separate them and do not put between them that which while not waiting is paying attention
to that thing.

Place the laughing where the smile is lending what there is of expecting that attention. It
is not expecting something. It is obeying all of that consideration.

A place to stay when sitting and standing are so increasing that that which is exciting is
spreading is the continuing of engaging the whole of that expression. It is rising and pervading.
It has that to hear.

Waste not want not have a piece of carpet, use the laugh when longer use it any time you go
away. That is to say a heavy way to leave it all alone is to use the time in every way.

A parcel. A parcel is the thing that when there is a heavy one is the one that every one eating
is not receiving. They were all there. They each had that diversion. They came to have the
time when they were not accepting that string which was not there when the paper was not there.
They all had some of that intention.

Powdering a little pepper and neglecting that in the morning paper is one way to begin the
day. They were not all using either. They did not have a lovely time.

Banking in the hope of a tradition and so there is no sound. A little place to have a shoulder.
A particle of eye and that which is there to meet another is talking and telling what is not
hushing. Any one can sit down. There are not many chairs.

Pale pet, red pet, pink pet, blue pet, white pet, dark pet, real pet, fresh pet, all the tingling
is the weeding, the close pressing is the tasting.

Have the hand browner. It is that color. It is not holding that dimension. It is not changing
in holding a black thing that is used for anything.

Faithful and constant, never budge from her side. If there is a direction there is not that
clouding. A clearer and then the same that made that picture makes a picture and there has
been that change. There is no use for that. A place is plain.

Kindly clean the whole surface when there is enough time and then when the whole surface is
clean, it does not shine because if shining were anything that which is clean would not be
shining. That is to say that that which is clean is so clean.

The best place for all that which is warm is where there is enough to give all.

A whole one is not so small when it is little. It sees all that beaming. A target is all in
the middle and it receives it most. That is a Sunday.

If the little that is not bigger has gone away it has not been there. That is the way to complete
pleasure. It is alright.

A touch of too much was not what was intended. It was intended to pay that day. A different
ending is not coming. The happiness is regarding the little fitting that is not made for that
and yet is on it nicely. That is one hope. That is in the side place and is not there to stay.
It is to come here which is where there is the place underneath a non-conductor.

The same thing is not changed and if he wont he will. That will be enough and anyway all that
will not be sent away where there is no room. Certainly not.

The plainer the little letter that finishes a word is put where it is seen, even if it is much
smaller, has that meaning that a memory is not forgotten and a progression comes to happen.
That is that decision.

Anyway two are not the same, they have a way of hoping that if they are there they are not
disturbing. They do disturb if it is all the same. That is hopeful. It is not a bitter day
when the taste is sweet.

Largely additional and then completely exploding is one way to deny authorisation. It is not
the easiest way to get excited. The easier way is to say that a decision has been changed.
That is one way to make some of that precise pleasure.

It is not alarming to be together if all that is in a little look is what was what was expected
and there is disappointment. Then there can be that same particular repetition and surely any
picture is pleasing.

It was not tranquil, that was not what made that little moisture, that was not the change,
there was not any change, there was walking. And if there had come to be a place where there
was enough use there would not have been later that time and surely there will be so much that
there is not any distraction.

There is that and what there is is what is everywhere and there is always the most.

All the part that was cold has the warm feeling and the least that is pink is not purple and
the presence of that relief is that all together are not sorry. There could recommence but
there will not be any feeling. This is certain. There is all of a guaranty.

The presence of that shape in that head makes the act of passing some hair there a great pleasure.
It is so understood and the whole of the pleasure is the same and there is a place that is
thinner that is where the hair is a beginner. It is a dark subject and the discussion makes
it blonder. The best way to feel the future is the celebration of the evening. Every morning
comes after. A disappointment is not foretold.

All the evening and the walking, all the passing of the living, all the knowing of the living
of the ones who are prospering, all the tender pressing of the complete expression, all the
exaggerating in examination, all the actual decision, nothing is more than too much then, there
is all of that waiting and there is that one sleeping.

The rattle that is not in the room can talk some of the language that rises. When it is pleasant
to be important a question is as good as answered.

A wave of the white and the black and all the precious substance that which is the whole resemblance
is so keen that it is the not in between, it is the whole and there is laughing. The happy
way is the way to color the grey.

To put it there where there is no time to wait is the time that is not chosen, it has been
refused and given. All the result will be different and all the satisfaction will be expressed.

The size that is wide and the length that is short and the gloves that have stitching and the
slippers that are where there is that position, all this and there is curling when the hearing
is in the earring, all this and the outlining which is ermine, all this and the buckles showing,
all this is that intention and some expectation. The success is recurring. All the pleasure
is more.

What the time makes is no noise, what the time makes is that event.

The spread of the land is not skirted and the order is not shirted. The harmless way is all
day and the use of that change is that the voices have that deadening. Any place has that symptom.

The littlest use is the cane that has no gold ball, it is all made of the same and it is curving
where there is a beginning. This does not make beauty black, this makes beauty a beautiful color.

This is the time to say that a bath is not so clean when there is no soap to be seen. A bath
is clean when the bather has the wish to state and is full-filling everything.

A way to spend the day is to give away the time to say that is not the day that is to be used
that way. Every day is to be used that way. That is that installation.

Be the same complainer and then quarrel nicely, agree too arrange speaking first and then dismiss
the visitor, accept the late arrival of the one who is there to say that he is welcome, disturb
the time by not coming to say good-by, that is one way of changing a dismal way.

To relieve the heat by saying that some one is neat is the way to have winter come earlier
and not stay later. All the pleasure of having been telling what is the laughter when there
is no spelling has come to be drowned by the experience of one who has earned some changing
of the house she had been engaging. The pleasure of conquest is the same when distraction has
no limit. The quick way to say that beauty is not in the way is the way that the one receiving
the offering of adjusting all the pleasure has all the sweetness of decision. Beauty is the
thing to see when beauty is there. Any little way is all that and the question is answered.
There is no choice.

To lift a plant and see it green this does mean that there is a plant and green is more color
than any other. A time to dress is the time it takes after some one is frightened. Not at all,
there will not be any more and most directions are the directions to use in deciding to obey.
To obey nicely is something.

There are except the ribbon more than before, they are all there. Blending is not a rose and
pink is a color. The use of a pen that makes ink show is the seasonable way to show pleasure.
The union is perfect and the border is expressing kissing. There is no more than that touch.
That comes altogether. To satisfy a message there needed to be a dwindling and then altogether
the horizon was met. The window is there. The door is no more. The object is this.

Pardon the fretful autocrat who voices discontent. Pardon the colored water-color which is
burnt. Pardon the intoning of the heavy way. Pardon the aristocrat who has not come to stay.
Pardon the abuse which was begun. Pardon the yellow egg which has run. Pardon nothing yet,
pardon what is wet, forget the opening now, and close the door again.

Say more and tell the use there is in listening. Exchange that and receive a little spoon which
is one of seven.

The occupation which makes the reason clear is so absorbing that a night which is not any longer
is discovered.

To please while there is no attention is one way when there is a way to be older. This has
many little interruptions and a kiss on both cheeks is not in disorder.

A goose-girl is not a girl that geese regard and explain, a goose girl is a real wonder. To
sustain a breath is not so dignified as to laugh longer and to do that with that wail is the
principal task of more plucking.

A card of time means that all that is shown sparkles. There is no way to have it more than
satin. The black and the white and the mixture which is ermine is enchanting when there is
more dress than linen. There is no lining when the form is slender. There is every graceful
date when the hair is washed and there is no hairpin tickling. A little rubber would not make
it neater.

A lovely love is sitting and she sits there now she is in bed, she is in bed. A lovely love
is cleaner when she is so clean, she is so clean, she is all mine. A ovely love does not use
any way to say all day she is to say that all the day is all there is to say. A lovely love
is something and there is no hand-writing, it is that there is no printing. A lovely love is
there to be the rest of all there is to put into that which is what there is there.

When there is no astonishment there is that happening. To choose looking at the appetising
ending is not a sign of predisposition. It does not defy accomplishment. It lingers there.

Not to rub away is to let it stay and surely that is neat and sweet. The two which makes enough
is what is that and the question is that it comes in the morning.

A little expression of marrying means that and it succeeds in saluting. This means something.

Why does that the one being there see that see that reflection, why, because there is no separation
and there is no talking when the time has come for all more and there is that result of definite
cooking which is not to be forgotten while eating is that necessity in establishing not drinking.

The celebration of the evening is not in settling an extraction that will come out after walking.
That is that necessity and using that is the best proof. There is none.

Carpet sweeping is so timely and a comb would be useful if there was poverty.

If the wading is so sweet and there is day-light then the time which turned black grey and
the earrings longer were the months that had that time. All the pepper which has a color is
the color that is so articulate. There is the increase of more.

Astonishing is when there is no ring. Not astonishing this which is no adaptation. All the
color that is there shows that the company is smaller. They see that and they put in some salt
and some butter. This is not to cause a quarrel. This is not to keep eating away.

Tail pieces and a doll, a covering that is blue and white, a cup and not a mixture in it, darkness
and sympathy, this does not mean that some one has been afraid to stay away.

If the road-bed has no saw-dust and the water has no flour, if the money has no butter and
the conversation is successful then in some way we will have a room and a bath and more. That
is the way.

Please the spoons, the ones that are silver and have sugar and do not make mischief later,
do not ever say more than listening can explain.

Winter and the wet is on the apple, that means more handkerchief of any color, the size is
the same when the pillow is little. That is the way to be conscious. A perfume is not neater.

All the size which is so slower when the figs are dry make the change which is obtained with
walking have the size which is that production. The surface is not covered and a lighter brown
is yellower. Any day can be that. Singing is in vegetation. There is more green than potatoe.
That produces that result. Red is not needed but more helps than another. Any little piece
of fig is left.

Dark and slow and the little court is wrong as is the way when there are so many and not a
few are left. To bespeak that affection is to declare no more.

All right away and so much where there is nothing empty, so much and such a pretty color to
shine often, there is no praise where the pleasure is so precise and more than that there can
be and the most is black and another color.

A pen held by a pen holder does show more of that than most. It has been some preparation and
the talk is so interwoven.

A pale policeman has some contract and the nice way is to say that the darkness is in the cape.
All the particle of peril is shown in that gleam.

A cushion has no pretty color. A white surface has that meaning and two are seen and the present
is the same.

Charming the messenger and kissing the footstool, seasoning the grape-juice and coloring the
rose stalk, the danger to the minute is the time of day.

Wednesday, the sender who wants no coins away, Tuesday the use of a push that does not paralyse
the rubbing, all day, the resemblance to no blame, Sunday a movement of a little water. Persons
with a face and no spitting. Alluding to a fresh man shows no signs of wear. That is the meaning
of a measure. There is every remains of a trace.

Climbing the same division with a haughty lady does seem no more monstrous than the return
of a colored hat. There is no choice when the head is everywhere, none whatever and the same
thing would be so changeable if the hair were made of that silk. If the little one were that
size and she is then the round spot would be alike and it was not. So there must be some regret.
There was.

Say the difference, say it in the brook, say it in the perpendicular horizon, say it in the
retreat from St. Petersburg.

The tame coffee is not so stern as the singing of swinging. The brown complete has a tall leader
and the distance is seen and is not safer. There is no loss of mud and the collar is lower.

Little lingering and lantern lighting is the pleasant sing song and sing song is singing and
the wish is more than any father it is the whole pressure of the little and the big which comes
the way singing has whispering and so and the blanket is not so regular as every sheet and
not more neat not any more neat.

Peas and green peas and surely cooked, there was a difference, a simple sample did cause that
description. So then we conclude that if there is food there is no higher place and nothing
deranged and the necessity the whole necessity is there, there is material.

Little leg of mutton always still and true, little long potatoe is so like the green, little
celery eaten, shows the time of day, little rhubarb is all red and still there is a last time
to discuss a matter, little piece of pudding is not very red, little piece of fish fried is
the same as bread, little pieces of it are the bread there is, each one is all happy and there
is no time for pears. Pears are often eaten, figs have such a way, all the time is better and
this shows in that way, all the best is certain and there is that use, when there is no time
to stay there will be no abuse. All the time is there then, there is time to stay, all the
best is mentioned most and there is more to say, all the length is thickness, all the length
is breadth, talking is a pleasant way and there is not enough, more is not permitted, there
is meaning there, all is in that particular time there is the meaning clear.

Leave the peculiar people here who have the love of any day, leave them stay and sit and have
the open seat filled up with fire, this makes merriment and an afternoon.

Marking the smiling of a beer does show the happy cloth that is here, asking the time of opening
doors does make the noise grow louder.

Bake the little stay away, and choose the apple every day, place the thing with it and sing
it well and nicely there will come all that. This means that there is all that there and there
is more than is obliged, choosing that is the way all is best and light in color is the most.

All the dearest children say that they may, they do not say all the words any day, they say
they hear that it is where there is no happening that the conviction is deepening. They say it.

To begin the hymn there is a word there, four makes the whole completer. An excess is refined.
That is so likely.

Biting a piece of a sample and refusing a piece of a laugh and learning a longer refusal and
soiling every seat is not the way to follow a preceder.

The whole is so much that there is a half, there is more than a house there is a larger room.
This gave the whole thing a beginning.

Taming more that is large and shouting minus a sight is not a disappointment not at all when
breathing has no temperature.

All the pudding has the same flow and the sauce is painful, the tunes are played, the crinkling
paper is burning, the pot has a cover and the standard is excellence. So the pig is painful
and the red is never white. A little lamb is not more than every sheep and any flavor. The
order is so filled with hope that there is no distress.

So kindly and so shiningly and with a special temperature, so far and here and always there
and all interpretation holding the place of all decision. There is no use in saying Madame.
An open face has hair, it can have it so.

In more winding there is glass and in a sound there is a swing. Any time to do it different
means a change in every second, the seconds are the same.

Pleasure in onions means that gambling has no milk. That is what has come to remain away. The
time of the pansy is so original.

The spoon, the spoon, that weight, a closet, a plate and all of the chase that makes silver
so killing, a whole temper is sustained and the noon has more place than daylight. All the
happy day is that way. A question is answer.

A lamp and trimming and the description of the children and the certain indigestion when the
reason is not thrilling. So then the time comes when some one has to stay.

All the temper which shows that there must not be that meaning shows no more than is forgotten.
Hoping anything is hoping that that is a lesson. Not hoping does not show more memory than
there is fact. There is no fact.

More mining than pedestrianism and more hot water bottling does mean that cheapness is something
and nothing is subdued. More shows the place and feathers are neglected for more winter and
surely steam is something, it surely has no way to make a house change the river, really not
any way.

Please the locksmith and the price and throw the cushion on the floor and make a little piece
of butter show more strength than any orange. All of it together make the sun and the change
is delightful. There is no moon. Cats see that. They can misuse a piece of surrounding moss.

Pale and paling, all the octoroon has some color. A chocolate is not sweet if it is not vanilla.
It is a sweet taste and the mouth is bigger. It eats more. It is not annoyed with pink powder.
It is not annoyed any more. Containing contradictions makes a melon sour. A melon has no use
for such a color. It has no unrest.

To climb and shine and to decline, to sink and save and have the water pour, all this and more,
there is no sight that has not every vestige sold in pieces. There is no interval between mentioning.
There is a tropical misuse. There is the same. There are many there more.

The two shouting are not about. They have the coil in their hair. All hair is idle. There is
no medicine.

Like no sheep and like a lamb, there is no meat, there is a sheet. Like a church and like a
tape there are circles there, there is a hidden chair.

All the day that the print discloses is that which causes the circle. A feeling is nice.

By the little piece of string, by the ocean travel, by the whole thing dwindling, by the recitation,
by the actual counting there are things to doubt, there are more exaggerations there than there
is a twinkling bucket. So the decision has that vellum syncopation. A blind bed bite is thunder
struck.

Please tell the artichoke to underestimate valor. Change is made in the book-trade.

Lay the end left and put the tooth next, spice the same handkerchief and season the tomato,
it is no use to be silly and if there is spoiling why should an atlas show that. It does, that
is what makes it a journey.

To mention that the sound a piece is all in the same bosom. So then.

Present the time and section the sailing of a coat. Show no theory. Show the satisfaction and
see the window. All the gentleness is mixing. There is a dream.

All the rest is burned. There is no auction.

Then the singing is dirty and silence is louder. Then there is a dwelling. There is mingling
in a cushion. The pet is particular. It sees silkiness in sulking. It is so delighted. It is
a wonder.

Aim to please and tend to save, show the honor of the tripe, squeeze the whole pen wiper close,
show the arc light where to choose, see the cable leave the ton, show it the face merrily,
there is rousing in the cake there is a bite in the plain pin, there is no more disgrace than
there is. There certainly is not.

Alright, show more, show it broadly, show it so that if there is a dispute, if there is any
reason to fear more than the most there will be the time to say more and to say it very nicely.
This is the reason given for shaken a cream pitcher. Surely there is that much certainly.

A dirty bath is so clean that there is eyesight. A sponge, a crack in soap, all that makes
nails longer. It does and yet if there is no change of name there is an example. Names are
mingling.

Names are mingling and the surprise is not official. It is recorded and a nightingale is a
song. A song is pretty nearly more. It is singing.

Please utter that change three times and then what happens, it happens and the whole little
taste is so winking that there is no light. There is night. There is night light, there is
pink light, there is midnight. All the chief occupations are in the checked dress. This is
made of curtains and calico and rhodedendrons and kindling wood and even of some gauze. This
is so soon summer.

All of it is in a hat. A hat is yellow. If a hat is that color why should sleeves be shorter.
If sleeves are shorter why is a dress yellow. There is an answer.

A blade and a setting that has the colors of a simple sample of right resolution is so sweet
that there is a precious saying.

I and y and a d and a letter makes a change. The obligation is mutual. Will the pieces widen.
If they do then thickness is increasing. A caution, that makes midnight. A cake, that makes
squeezing. If there is reading and recollection is tall and the time that has light has made
the night, if there is reading and a recollection makes arithmetic, then a memory has no choice,
it remembers nothing, it remembers more, it enlarges satisfaction. Is satisfaction suspicion,
it is there, it is in peace. All the time is sweeping. All that and more. No use is more hindered
than a smelling cover. That is so neat and particular. All the same there is no answer.

Smell is not a wall. So small and so drunk from a well. A wink is not somber. So fine and there
is no time. Patience means curls.

A patent is not the same thing as no place to lay down in a room. This does show that something
is bought. The means to station a chair in a place is so made that the feet are covered. A
little of feet does not make any difference. There is no interpretation.

Light as a spoon and no duller and some silver and a spilling of a whole assortment of cheese
this does make the suggestion that not touching is not everything.

Candy is lively. The kindness of smelling. That last scent is lingering. If the precious thing
is ripe it has been washed. Smelling is not patient. It is reduced and remembered.

The sign, the left and the laugh, all the tangle, the length of light, piece the pressing,
to be near and that graciously makes hindering gracious in sleeping. The sent hindering is
attacking clinging. The closeness is thin request.

Wipe no more and pillow the time to rise, wipe in and have no shutter, weigh and rest more
in the middle, protect the top, hold all principally.

Dimmer than a demand of a dance in the surrounding depreciation. And then than whom is the
pleasure. A life was sardine to play. A land was thinner. Than which side was tacit. The noise
was a pimple. A convex is not hurtled.

So the same solid slice shows the use of that. It was not right. If there was the occasion
then surely there should be the sanction. And why if there is no chance should there be no
refusal. Because if the place is there, there are the times. More does not make that difference.
There will not be.

A turn in the place and smelling is sticking, the section that is is not unsatisfactory. To
begin to be plain. To begin to be plain is a plain duty. The right to be plain is a plain right.
The resumption of being plain is the resuming being plain. There is a conviction and a satisfaction
and a resemblance between blue houses and blue horizon.

A private life is the long thick tree and the private life is the life for me. A tree which
is thick is a tree which is thick. A life which is private is not what there is. All the times
that come are the times I sing, all the singing I sing are the tunes I sing. I sing and I sing
and the tunes I sing are what are tunes if they come and I sing. I sing I sing.

A lovely night to stay awake and smell the cake and masticate. A lovely night and no need of
surprises, that is what makes it so free of noises.

He came and said he had fried it hard and he had and we smelled it and it was as he did not
say it was, it was chewy and it was made as it was made and if there was no hesitation there
was no refusal. Could it be true that there was meaning in there being no refusal. Very likely
it was not true that there was meaning in there not being refusal.

A curious little thing is that a substantial piece of cauliflower shows in the nose and shows
so well that there is no smell. A very curious thing is that a whole name means no more than
if there is success, not a bit more place is used by those using more than by those receiving
company. It makes every one glad to see the genius and the energy and the simple way that a
thing is put down. Why is there any reason that there should be hesitation. Is it necessary
that one seeing the time not wasted should arrange that there is no more fatigue. Is it singular
that the afternoon and the evening follow the morning. Does follow mean coming after and why
if it does, why is there no reason. It is not especial that no more reason is curious than
a large picture. A single moment and no catastrophe does show that care makes any one nervous.
There is no time to use speed. The promise will be kept and sometime any little word will be
the one written.

Once upon a time when there was a word which went there once upon a time there was a pillow.
A pillow is not whiter when there is a moon than it is when there is paper. Once when there
was more extravagance than there is blaming once there was a door and that was made of white
lining. This had under it what did not disappoint a chicken. This is not industry it is regularity.

Four sses are not singular. Four sses are not at all singular and the fashion which is changing
shows itself then, it shows in there being four and many more, it shows itself in blame, in
expectation, in direct appeal, in singular ways of establishing a result, in certain very particular
investigations and hopes and determinations and even it does even sometimes show itself in
audacity and in endearments. All the time that this is happening there is result and anticipation.

The faithful prosecution of an intermediate expression between obligation and restraint and
reverberation is such that the mornings could be used.

To go into the mud and spill potatoes, to go into the water and pick up water, to go everywhere
and wash a petunia, this is a disgrace, it is such a disgrace that there is no meaning in closing
and yet, why forget, when to forget is one thing, which to forget is something, the simple
time to select a new example is in the same way. This happened and the end of it all was that
any way there was no reason why any establishment should have a way to pray. This did not mean
that there was any reason in eye sight, this means simply that the whole thing is not any of
the appurtenance of the register. The time when that is mentioned. The time how, that is mentioned.
All the time there is mentioned that the list is long.

A dot in the center and that which is proportioned if it is made of lead, if it is easily made
is so impressionable. There is no greater satisfaction than in everything.

A baker had a basket and a basket was bigger, there is no baker and a basket is bigger, there
is no wax and there is an impression and certainly very certainly there is proportion.

A beggar who begs and a print which prints, a surface which heats and a smoke which smokes,
all this makes silver and gold is not cheaper not so much cheaper that there is no clatter.
All the conscience which tells that little tongue to tickle is the one that does not refer
to teeth. To remember, to forget, to silence all the mistakes, to cause perfection and indignation
and to be sweet smelling, to fasten a splendid ulster and to reduce expenses, all this makes
no charge, it does not even make wine, it makes the whole thing incontestable. The doctrine
which changed language was this, this is the dentition, the doctrine which changed that language
was this, it was the language segregating. This which is an indication of more than anything
else does not prove it. There is no passion. A little tiny piece of stamp, a little search
for whiting, a little search for more and more does not disturb the resting.

A liking that has teeth that show it are the same as a smile and the candle is clean, it is
clean if there is obedience, it is clean if there is hot water and no soap, it is clean, it
is so clean that there is no open top, this does not make wind, it does not make china, it
does not even make a remainder and then the deplorable difficulty, why is there no deplorable
difficulty, there is and there is an excuse, there is the best fence in the water, this does
make no distress, surely there is no reason why it should, surely it does and then there would
be a center, in all ways there is a resemblance.

Why does a little one like a middle sized one, why does a little one mention everything. A
little one mentions everything because in mentioning a middle sized one the little one is mentioning
everything.

When does a middle sized one mention mentioning anything, a middle sized one mentions mentioning
everything when a middle sized one mentions anything. A middle sized one is mentioning mentioning
everything. A middle sized one does not sin, that means that a middle sized one mentions anything
and mentions mentioning everything in mentioning anything. Anything is everything. Middle size
is mentioning everything.

A quiet thought in a lively example shows that chalk, any chalk makes a mark and it also shows
that the middle is the same distance between two birds. How dark all this shows in green and
brown and yet white real white is cream.

A curve, a curve is that angle which determines the recognition of the center in relation to
the gathering extension, a curve is that result which is disturbing the roundness that is not
redder. The center the whole center is a flower and being a flaming flower does not mean that
there is a shadow, it means just watering and winking and wading and rearranging, it means
just that exactly.

Life on the Mississippi and in Missouri, life is that which when undertaken is not bashful.
Why should it be bashful. Suppose there comes the time which shows that there was a difference,
is this any disgrace, does this make pride, it does not make pride but it does make secretion,
and what is secretion, secretion is that amusement which every little mark shows as merit.
A mark is very necessary. Suppose there is a mark well then there is a mark.

All the mark comes, all the mark is, all there is is a mark, all there comes comes to mark,
a mark has that character and that price, a likely price a completely likely price.

Not seasoning a turnip, this does make a story, it makes this story, it tells how what is just
alike has no difference. The patience for that is not denied.

Daylight is measured by there being a dinner a staple sobriety and a wise widow. Day-light
is not meant by the evening and too much repetition.

A feather, what is a feather, a feather is restraint, and this shows in yellow, it does not
show in every color.

Why is there white which is creamy, there is white which is creamy because it is necessary.

The whole cabinet shows that uselessness is not tearful. No excitement is necessary, it is
sadness that is eaten.

A window and a wife, a chair and a stable, all very likely to be in the habit of extracting
precise results. This is so manifest, it is so precious and perfect.

A plain light, what is a plain light a plain light is twinkling. Is there any credit given
when there is a frog, there is not. All the same it is very good to be busy, to be gracious
and to be religious, it is very good to be grand and disturbed and exchanging, a sign of energy
is in a soup, is there no sign of energy. There is a little joke in all the mice, there is
a little tenderness in soup, there is a plant, there is a coat, there are seven dresses to
see, there is no doubt any choice in that, there is certainly a single obligation for a hat,
there is no doubt that there is no curve, no curve, at all to a shape, there is no doubt that
something has that way.

Climate is not a color. A little thing is a color. When to discover and when to disturb and
when to lead a rock away all this is known and no disgrace.

Can a question be clear. Can a pin be a shape. Can a length be different.

Two, two are not more than one when there is a dress. This is no obstacle. To begin the dress,
supposing there is that and there is a process, the thing to do is to determine who is the
one that shows it all. This is not determined because there is activity. There being activity
there is beauty. There being beauty all the pins are changed. So late there can be no beginning
and yet it was all done. How was it done, it was done by one.

Half a sausage, a whole sausage, two sausages, more sausages, four sausages, this with a little
mixed sour, this and the rest and the corn which is grain, this and the best and certainly
no kind of way of saying that it was unexpected, this completed the single selection of a curtain
of repetition. This was such a security.

Argue the earnest cake and the dirty inside blotter, argue it and sign the best way of standing.
Supposing fifty are nineteenthirteen, supposing they are is that the reason that the trimmings
are shorter. Why any wonder when the color of the sand is so dark and raisins are fig trees
and apples are smarter.

Why is the illusion correct, it is correct because it is black and gold.

Why are little squares neater, they are neat because if they are obstructed there is a result
that is pretty, very pretty and very likely there is the color.

Pin a little pin inside each muff, show the slant that should expose a foot, serve the same
thing that has seen enough, love the moment best which is all bliss. A mighty circle and a
clean retreat, a master piece and any fist you please, all this and collusion, was there ever
a sign. There was it showed that the back like the front has a middle. It does not deceive
plaster, it does not arouse a rose.

Cease carpeting, cease carpeting and what happens, the same thing happens and there is silence
and there is water and there is a rush of the same fire that showed in the other stove.

If the white which is white and the green which is green mixed with the brown which is brown
shows no sign of the expectation that does not disappoint expectation, if it does not then
is there news, there is news. A lamb has no neigh, a chicken has breeding, a circus has an
object and the best is to be done. The very best is to be done, it is to be done and the example
the very example shows no steel, it shows no steel and it shows no selfishness and success,
it shows just what there is which is all that necessarily.

The darkness does not mean light ways and single noises it just means that there certainly
will be success and a serious remedy, it means that pins any pins are a quantity, it means
that a whole proceeding is necessary and outlined and that a list a whole list means no more
disturbance than a masterpiece.

An argument is seen in a hurry, why is there no danger in advice, and in a point and in a single
exchange of generosity, why is there even no danger in a return and an investment and in electing
a single side of clock making, why is there no more danger in a curtain and a silence and a
hasty spilling of the milk and maple sugar and the rest of it all. Why is there no danger and
why when there is a cottage why is there anything hasty in asking for nothing and not staying
longer. Why is there no danger in an attitude and in the certainty of tea and bread and butter.
Why is there no danger.

Lecture, lecture a hat and say it is a cat, say it is a lively description, say that there
is collusion, to say this and say it sweetly, to say this and make alike service and a platter,
to do this is horrid and yet when does kindness fail.

An alarm a study and dragged alarm is splendid. It is shocking and a disgrace. It is a garment
in disposition.

Boiling what is boiling, currants are boiling and india rubber and more negligence and certainly
a dress too and more likely a coat and a head dress and a sight of shoes. Very likely all of
this is boiling and very likely there is nothing hot, nothing is so hot that there is any way
to choose.

If there is a piece to part is there any lighter part is there when the fat is thinner, is
there when the moths are slimmer, is there any way no table when there is and where there is.
This is not in the interest of the pins nor really in the interest of white thread nor indeed
in the interest of the afternoon or the morning, it is not in any interest, it will cause slippers.
This is cute.

Explain a curve, a curve is that angle which placing a line there shows a regular chance to
be fitting. This is so boastful.

A little occasion shows no twisting and real politeness, politeness shows credit and earrings
and even large feet, it even shows a sample. This is so much more like what it is.

Once upon a time there was a reverence for bleeding, at this time there was no search for what
came. That which was winsome was unwinding and a clutter a single clutter showed the black
white. It was so cautious and the reason why was that it was clear there had been here. All
this was mightily stirring and littleness any littleness was engaged in spilling. Was there
enough there was. Who was the shadow.

The rest was left and all the language of thirty was in the truth. This made it choose just
that establishment. Consume apples and there is no cider. Drink beer and be ready later. Snug
and warm is the chin and arm, struggle and sneeze is the nose and the cheese, silent and grey
is the dress near the bay, wet and close is the sash they chose. A likeness and no vacation.
A regularity and obedience. Congratulations.

There is no truth in the decision which is in the center. When the center is not in a line
but in a circle a tub, a whole tub is necessary. The sorrow is not satisfied by the moon and
motion, it is urged to be strong and to save a specimen.

A single noise, reddening is distressing, a single noise, blue is no mystery, a single noise,
loving dissimulating, a single noise, completely correcting.

A practice, no practice is careless, a loud practice, no practice is silent, a wild practice,
no practice is perfect.

She said that she did not do it and she did do it, she did it so that the same page was not
copied and the same book was not lost and the same sayer would be spoken.

A line is the presence of a particular sugar that is not sugary but splendid and so bland,
so little and so rich, so learned and so particular, so perfectly sanguine and so reared.

To indicate more wall flowers than there is paper, to indicate more houses than there are houses,
to indicate nothing more is not an urgent and particular privilege, it is selected and if it
is not wanted is there any reason for losing anything. There is what there is by the raking
of the felt hats.

Does anybody think so, does anybody think so. Does anybody think so in the future. Does anybody
think so. Does anybody think so.

Does anybody think that the turn and the break and the lavender and the currants and the hot
cocoanut altogether is a wonderful mixture. Does anybody think so.

Tune, a tune is in the hurt way there is no mountain. There comes to be, there comes to be,
there is an exchange of that taste. Sweetness is no reason. Results are strained.

If a length and it is there is not covered by where there is a section then is there no use
in a foot. There is, there is.

An addition, suppose it is more on the beach is that the time to reach more and is there any
more likely. If there is there is no can late.

A real red intoxication and no perspiring blaze not even a silk hat, is there no stranger showing,
is there not a selection. The pleasantest elegance is in a collar, it is and there is the red
exactness that shows color and no such light.

Which is in the dish there is yellow and the white and all the sleep, all the variegation lying
makes the best as in the grate. Sound the goose and if in shining ees are all the wealth between,
if there is a right and roaming, if the left has all that team, if it has and roaming roaming
lectures all that and makes mines, why is silentsses inner when there is the seldom roar. All
the use is humorous.

A bird is birdie. A little bird and a little blight and a little balance to a best button.
A little bright bitten bucking anything.

Cunning to eat, circular to baste, splendid to chew, solemn to drink, surprising to assemble
and more opportunely.

Bud what is a bud, a bud is not busted. What is a bud. A bud is a sample. A bud is not that
piece of room and more, a bud is ancient.

Class a plain white suit as a fairy turtle, class an amazing black cup as an hour glass, class
a single relief as a nut cracker, show the best table as a piece of statuary.

Suppose it did, suppose it did with a sheet and a shadow and a silver set of water, suppose it did.

Beef yet, beef and beef and beef. Beef yet, beef yet.

Water crowd and sugar paint, water and the paint.

Wet weather, wet pen, a black old tiger skin, a shut in shout and a negro coin and the best
behind and the sun to shine.

A whole cow and a little piece of cheese, a whole cow openly.

A cousin to a cow, a real cow has wheels, it has turns it has eruptions, it has the place to sit.

A wedding glance is satisfactory. Was the little thing a goat.

A, open, Open.

Leaves of hair which pretty prune makes a plate of care which sees seas leave perfect set.
A politeness.

Call me ellis, call me it in a little speech and never say it is all polled, do not say so.

Does it does it weigh. Ten and then. Leave off grass. A little butter closer. Hopes hat.

Listen to say that tooth which narrow and lean makes it so best that dainty is delicate and
least mouth is in between, what, sue sense.

Little beef, little beef sticking, hair please, hair please.

No but no but butter.

Coo cow, coo coo coo.

Coo cow leaves of grips nicely.

It is no change. It is ordinary. Not yesterday. Needless, needless to call extra. Coo Coo Coo Cow.

Leave love, leave love let.

No no, not it a line not it tailing, tailing in, not it in.

Hear it, hear it, hear it.

Notes. Notes change hay, change hey day. Notes change a least apt apple, apt hill, all hill,
a screen table, sofa, sophia.

Ba but, I promise, I promise that that what what is chased is chased big and cannily and little
little is big too big best.

No price list, no price list, a price-list, a price and list and so collected, so collected
pipe, all one cooler, a little apple needs a hose a little nose is colored, a little apple
and a chest, a pig is in the sneezing, no blotter, raised ahead.

I promise that there is that.

The hour when the seal up shows slobber. Does this mean goat. It does yes.

Be a cool purpose and a less collection and more smell more smell.

Leave smell well.

Leaves in oats and carrots and curve pets and leaves and pick it ferns and never necessary belts.

Little b and a a coat, little b and a a cat, little b and a coat cat, little be cat, little
be coat little be and cat and cut and hat, little be and hat and a pear and a pear, little
b and a pear and a coat, little be and a coat and grape cat grape cat, little b and a coat
grape cat, little be and a cat pear coat hat grape, little grape and a coat grape cat, little
coat and a pear and a hat grape coat, little pear and a be at hat, pear.

Leaves, that is leave, that is look in 6 pieces, six pieces and a kitchen, a kitchen when,
in guarding, in guarding what, a kitchen. All I say is begin.

A lake particular salad.

Wet cress has points in a plant when new sand is a particular.

Frank, frank quay.

Set of keys was, was.

Lead kind in soap, lead kind in soap sew up. Lead kind in so up. Lead kind in so up.

Leaves a mass, so mean. No shows. Leaves a mass cool will. Leaves a mass puddle.

Etching. Etching a chief, none plush.

MANY MANY WOMEN

Any one is one having been that one. Any one is such a one.

Any one having been that one is one remembering something of such a thing, is one remembering
having been that one.

Each one having been one is being one having been that one. Each one having been one is remembering
something of this thing, is remembering something of having been that one.

Each one is one. Each one has been one. Each one being one, each one having been one is remembering
something of that thing.

Each one is one. Each one has been one. Each one is remembering that thing.

Each one is one. Each one has been one. That is something that any one having been one, any
one being one is having happen. Each one being one is having it happen that that one is being
that one. Each one having been one is one having had it happen that that one has been that one.

Each one is one. Any one is the one that one is. Each one is one.

One who is one is remembering that she is one forgetting anything. One who is one is remembering
that she is forgetting everything again and again. She is remembering this thing. She is not
interested in this thing. She is remembering this thing and she is remembering that this is
a quite necessary thing, it is quite a necessary thing that she is remembering that she is
forgetting anything.

She is forgetting anything. This is not a disturbing thing, this is not a distressing thing,
this is not an important thing. She is forgetting anything and she is remembering that thing,
she is remembering that she is forgetting anything.

She is one being one remembering that she is forgetting anything. She is one not objecting
to being one remembering that thing, remembering that she is forgetting anything. She is one
objecting to there being some objecting to being ones forgetting anything. She is one objecting
to any one being one remembering that they are not forgetting anything. She is one objecting
to any one objecting to her being one forgetting anything. She is not one remembering being
one objecting to any one objecting to her being one forgetting anything. She is one remembering
that she is one objecting to being one remembering that they are not forgetting anything. She
is one remembering something of being one objecting to some being one objecting to forgetting
anything.

She is one forgetting anything. She is one remembering something of this thing. She is one
repeating this thing repeating remembering something of forgetting anything.

She is one remembering that she has been having something. She is one remembering something
of this thing. She has been having something, she is having something, she is remembering something
of this thing. She is not objecting to having something, she is having something, she is remembering
something of this thing.

She is one being that one being one having something and remembering something of that thing.
She is one being one and she is forgetting anything and she is remembering being one forgetting
anything.

Any one she is kissing is one she is kissing then, not kissing again and again, not kissing
and kissing, any one she is kissing is one she kissed then, is one she did kiss then, one she
kissed some then.

Any one she is kissing is one needing something then, needing kissing, needing anything just
then, needing some kissing then. Any one she is kissing is one having been kissed then, having
been kissed some then and she was the one who was kissing that one some just then. Any one
she was kissing was one whom she was kissing just then. Any one she was kissing was one who
might have been needing something then, needing anything then, needing kissing then, needing
a little kissing then, needing any kissing then, needing something then, needing kissing then.

She was one living and remembering that she had enough for this thing, enough for living. She
was one remembering that she had enough for being living and she was remembering that she could
always be needing that thing needing having enough to be living. She could remembering to remind
herself and any one of this thing, she could remember that thing, she could remember to be
reminded of that thing. She could remember to be one reminding herself, she could remember
to be one having any one remind her quite often of this thing that she could remember that
she had enough and would be always having enough to be living. She could remembering that she
was needing this thing needing having enough always enough for living. She could remember enough
of reminding any one of this thing. She could remember this thing remember reminding herself
of this thing. She could remember something of being reminded of this thing. She could remember
this thing, she could remember a good deal of knowing that she was having enough for being
living and that she could always be needing having enough for living. She could remember this
thing, she could quite remember that thing.

She was one forgetting anything. She was remembering something of that thing of forgetting
anything. She could always remember something of that thing, remember something of forgetting
anything.

In giving she was giving what she had then remembered to give then. In giving she was going
to be giving. In giving she was quite often giving something. In giving she was not scolding
any one. In giving she sometimes remembered that she was going to give that which she would
give. In giving she was forgetting that thing the thing she was giving.

In giving she was remembering that she would be one being living. In giving she remembered
something of being one needing something in being one being living. In giving she almost remembered
she had enough for going on being living. In giving she was one forgetting that thing, the
thing she was giving. In giving she was being one remembering something. In giving she was
beginning again and again.

She was lonesome. She was not remembering all of this thing. She was not ever remembering everything
of being lonesome. She was lonesome, she was not regretting this thing, she was not expecting
anything from that thing, from being lonesome. She was not expecting anything in being lonesome.
She was lonesome and she was not interested in the thing in being lonesome, she was not interested
in not expecting anything from being lonesome. She was lonesome and was always knowing all
any one could know about that thing about her being lonesome. She was lonesome and was remembering
all there was to remember of the thing of her being lonesome.

She was lonesome and that was not coming to be something. Being lonesome was not coming to
be anything. She was remembering enough of that thing that being lonesome was not coming to
be something. She was lonesome and she was not using that thing in remembering being lonesome,
she was not using very much then. She was lonesome and she remembered enough about that thing
and she would be lonesome and she would be remembering all she was remembering about that thing.
She was lonesome and forgetting anything and remembering something of forgetting everything.

In remembering forgetting something not anything was something she was needing in being then
that one. She was not using anything for any such thing for remembering, for forgetting anything.
She was often using something. She was not one forgetting, she was not one remembering having
been using that thing. She was using things and forgetting then something and remembering then
something and she was not using that thing in being then that one one remembering something,
one forgetting anything. She was using anything she was having then to be something she might
be using then. She was not remembering, she was not forgetting then to be one having been using,
being using that thing.

She was going on being one using, having been using something and being then not one using
anything in being that one, one forgetting anything, one remembering that thing remembering
forgetting anything.

Why should not any one be certain that any one is one any one could be liking and that every
one are ones being completely foolish ones in being ones being any one. Why should not any
one be repeating something of some such thing, repeating quite often that any one is one any
one is liking and that every one is one being a quite foolish one. Why should not any one be
one saying some such thing.

She was remembering quite remembering that any one was a one any one could be liking well enough
for anything and she was remembering and saying some such thing that every one is a foolish
enough one and that very many are being ones being living.

She was saying this thing and any one could come to be one being certain that she was quite
saying that any one is one any one can be liking in being one being living and that every one
is one being a silly one in being that one.

In paying anything she was not worrying. In paying for anything she was not worrying. She had
worried some. She was always worrying. In paying for anything she was not needing to be paying
then. She was not knowing that thing, she was always worrying. She was paying for anything.
She could have been one not paying for anything if she had not been one paying for everything.
She did pay for something and then she paid for another thing. She was always worrying. She
paid for very many things. She always was paying for something. She was always worrying. She
was not paying for anything and certainly she did pay for everything and there were very many
things that she was needing to be one paying for and she paid for them and she was always worrying
and she was quite putting off then paying and she did then pay for something and sometime she
paid everything and she was being one knowing this thing that she could pay for everything.
She was needing almost everything and was paying then and worrying then and paying a little
again and again.

She was feeding something. She was one feeding that thing, feeding being one knowing something.
She was feeding something in feeding that thing. She was really feeding something. In feeding
that thing she was not beginning. She was not beginning in feeding. She was not beginning,
she was feeding something. She was knowing that she was one who was not beginning feeding something,
she was not remembering any such thing as feeding something, she was not forgetting any such
thing as feeding something. She was feeding something. She was not beginning. She was going
on in that thing in feeding something. She was one feeding that thing feeding being one knowing
something.

She was one knowing something of feeding knowing something. She was feeding on feeding knowing
something, on feeding in this thing. She was not one forgetting everything. She was not one
remembering anything.

She was one loving. She was one being loved then. She was one loving in being loved and was
loving then. She was one loving then. She was one loved then. Loving is a thing that was happening
some then. She was loving then, she was loved then.

Any one doing that thing doing loving is doing something of that thing, something of doing
loving. She was loving some one and some one was loving her then. Both of them were loving
then. They went on both of them doing something of that thing of loving. She was loving and
she was content in doing that thing, and she was remembering that thing remembering doing loving,
and she did not forget everything of being content in that thing in being loving. She was loving,
she was remembering being content in doing some loving. She was loving, she was doing something
of that thing. She was needing being content in being loving. She remembered something of that
thing of needing being content in being loving. She forgot something, she forgot some of the
things she was liking in loving. She did not remember anything of forgetting things she was
liking in loving. She remembered something of needing being content in being loving. She was
loving some and she was remembering that thing, remembering that she was loving some.

This one is one and she is that one. Each one is one. There are many. Each one is different
from any other one.

Each one is one. There are many. Some of them are loving. Some of them are completely loving.
One of them is completely loving. This one is living in loving being existing in that one and
loving is existing in that one, completely existing in that one. That one is loving and is
completely existing in loving being completely existing in that one and in the one that one
is loving and in that one who is the one loving that one. This one is one completely existing
as loving is completely existing in that one and one other one.

Each one is one. There are many of them. Each one is different from any other one of them.
Each one is one being living. Some are ones loving. Some are ones believing in loving. Some
are ones believing in loving and marrying and having children. Some of such of them are ones
believing in working and believing in every one. Some of such of them are ones working and
getting sick then and going on believing in everything in which they have been believing. One
being such a one was one loving. She was one believing in something, she was one believing
in working and marrying and having children and believing in all that she had been believing.
She believed in changing in some things. She believed in something. She was loving. She was
working. She was marrying. She was having children. She was believing in all she had been believing.
She was one believing in something. She was a sick one. She believed then in what she had been
believing.

She could be certain that she could be content to let some go on doing what they were doing.
She was certain she could be content to have some come to be doing other things than the things
they were doing. She did come to be certain that she could wait for something, for any one
to go on doing what they were doing, for some to come to be doing some other thing than the
thing they were doing.

She was one having children. She did have three of them. She was one working. She got sick
then. She was one beginning again working. She was one then coming to be completely a sick
one. She was one then believing what she had been believing.

She was one loving, she was one marrying. She was one believing in something and she went on
believing in that thing. She went on believing in all she had been believing.

In living she was believing in that thing believing in doing that loving. She was believing
that not anything was changing in being one being loving. She went on believing that thing.
She changed her mind some.

She was loving and she was certain that any one doing that thing any one loving was the one
not doing that thing not doing anything for loving. She went on believing that thing. She changed
her mind some about some little things. She was loving and she was marrying and she was sick
then and she had three children and she believed in everything in which she had always been
believing. She had always been believing in working, she believing in that thing. She had always
been believing that loving and marrying and having children was something that was happening,
she believed in believing that thing. She believed that in doing anything nothing was changing,
she believed that in arranging living any one would do that thing would arrange the living
they were believing in. She went on believing in the things in which she was believing. She
changed her mind about some little things and she said then that she had changed her decision.
She believed in that thing she believed in working and marrying and having children and in
believing in the things in which she had been believing.

She was working and loving then and marrying and being sick then and working and having children
and being sick then and she was believing then in the things in which she had been, in which
she was believing.

Each one is one there are many of them. Some are liking what they are doing. Some are completely
liking what they are doing. Some are loving and are completely liking that thing are completely
liking loving.

One was loving some one and was completely liking that thing liking loving that one.

There are very many being living. Each one is one. Each one is one being that one. Each one
is like some. Each one is one. There are very many of them. There are many kinds of them. Each
one is one. Each one is that one.

One is one and that one is one quite loving. This one is one needing enough of that thing enough
of loving so that that one is not needing too much, needing to be doing everything. This one
is one who was quite enjoying loving. She was loving. She was marrying again then. She was
quite needing that thing, needing marrying so that she would not be needing too much doing
everything.

She was marrying and she was needing marrying. She was doing everything and she was needing
that thing she was needing doing everything. Any one doing everything can be needing that thing
needing doing everything. She was needing that thing she was needing doing everything. In loving
she was marrying, she was doing everything. In marrying she was doing everything. She was doing
everything. She was marrying, she was needing that thing she was needing marrying. She was
moving in every direction in doing everything. She was loving in marrying. She was marrying
in doing everything. She was doing everything in moving in every direction.

She was needing being such a one. She was moving in every direction. She was loving. She was
marrying. She was needing doing everything. She was not beginning, she was not suffering, she
was not loving, she was not winning, she was going on and that was exciting, exciting enough
for any living continuing. She was not sacrificing, she was not seizing, she was not losing,
she was not winning, she was winning in every direction, she was not gay then, she was not
exciting then, she was moving then moving in every direction, she had courage for that thing,
courage for being that one, she had courage in going on living, she had courage in moving in
every direction, she had courage in not winning, she had courage in not losing, she had courage
in not sacrificing, she had courage in not seizing, she had courage in not being exciting,
she had courage in moving in every direction, she had courage in being one loving, she had
courage in being one marrying. She had courage. She had courage in being one not being a gay
one, she had courage in moving in every direction, she had courage in being one moving in every
direction, she had courage in being one going on living, she had courage.

She was one being living, she could be exciting and then some one could remember that she had
not been one being exciting. She had courage then. She could be kissing and any one could be
remembering that she had not been completely being fascinating. She had courage then. She could
be succeeding and any one could be pleased then and could be remembering that thing, remembering
that she always had had courage in going on being living. She was lively and any one could
remember that she could be a lively one. Any one could remember she had courage. Any one could
remember that thing.

Some are living and they might if they went on living they might then not be liking that thing.
Some are living and they might if they went on living they might then be liking that thing.
One went on living and was happier then happier than any one. That one went on living and went
on then being happier than any one. That one was then that one, one being happier than any
one ever had been in being one being living.

Some are living and they might if they went on living they might then not be liking that thing.
One of such of them was one going on living and she went on quite liking that thing and she
was one not completing that thing not completing liking that thing liking living but she went
on living and she was liking that thing and certainly then there was no reason why she should
not be liking that thing, she went on living and she was liking that thing.

She would be one going on being living even though she could understand something of any one
coming to be dying. She did go on being living although she could tell any one how any one
could come to be a dead one. She did go on being living although she could explain how very
many she was knowing were not needing such a thing needing going on being living.

She went on being living, she did that thing with enough decision, she did that thing with
decision enough to be one being one doing everything, doing everything enough, doing anything
just enough.

She was one whom some one married and then they had a child born to them and that child was
one she was having with her and she was then finding everything a little irregular. She said
the things she should say then, she did the things she should do then. Sometimes she was repeating
other things, sometimes she was changing her opinion, always she was changing her opinion,
she was decided enough then to say something, she did say that thing, she told then the whole
of that thing the whole of that opinion.

She was satisfied with being living. Being living is not satisfying is not completely satisfying,
any one listening was hearing some explanation of this thing. She was satisfied with being
living. She was satisfied with marrying. She was satisfied with being a married one. She was
satisfied with her husband who was quite a satisfying man. She was satisfied with having had
one child and having that child. She was satisfied that she would not have another one. She
was satisfied that he went on being living, that she would not have to have another one. She
was satisfied with her mother and her brothers and her sister. They were satisfactory as mother
and sister and older brother and younger brother. She had opinion enough about that thing about
mentioning there being existing. She was satisfied with regular living. She had opinion enough
of this thing to be quite expressing any such opinion. She was satisfied with being living.
She was satisfied with not any living being satisfying. She was satisfied with her living.
She was important in that thing so as to be explaining satisfactory living: She did explain
satisfactory living. She was satisfied with being living. She was satisfied that any living
was not satisfying. She was satisfied with her living. She expressed her opinion.

Each one is one. Each one is that one. Each one is one. Each one expressing an opinion is expressing
that thing that opinion.

One is expressing an opinion, one is expressing a suspicion. She is expressing the whole of
that thing. She is clearly having that thing, that suspicion, that opinion. She is one clearly
having that thing having that suspicion, that opinion. She is that one the one having that
expression, that opinion and clearly expressing that thing that suspicion, that opinion. She
is completely loving, completely lovelily loving. She is that one.

Each one is one. Each one is that one the one that one is. Each one is one. Each one is one
some are knowing. Each one is one. One is one many are knowing. One is one not any one is completely
certain is completely charming. That one is one being one being almost completely feeling in
being almost completely charming. This one is one not completing any such thing not completing
feeling, not completing feeling in being almost completely charming, not completing being almost
completely charming, not completing being charming.

She was marrying, she was not then married, she was one having lost something and not remembering
anything then of anything, of having or of loving, she was marrying then again. She was married
then. She was living then, she was satisfying any one being satisfied with that thing. She
was satisfying herself then with being one satisfying herself with that thing. She was not
losing anything, she was losing that thing, she was losing not losing anything.

Being that thing being one being something that was in a way a delicate thing was something
she was not having, she was not having that thing in being one being that one being the one
she might be, being the one she was. Being a delicately sensitive one was something she was
not having in being completely that one being completely the one she might be being, in being
the one she had been being, in being the one she would be being.

She was having delicate sensitive perception in being that one the one having such things,
in being one being the one she was being, she was being one having delicate and sensitive perceptions.
She was one always having been and always being that one the one quite having delicate and
sensitive perceptions.

She was interested in being any one, she was not interested in every one being that one, in
every one being the one she was interested in. She was not interested in any one being the
one she was interested in. She was not interested in that thing.

She was not interested in being one coming to perhaps not being that one. She was not interested
in that thing. She was not losing that thing losing that she might perhaps be coming to not
being that one.

She was one remembering something of any one being one believing that some meaning is existing.
She was one not losing much of remembering something of some such thing. She might have been
one being one not remembering any thing of any one believing that some meaning is existing.
She might have been such a one, she was not such a one. She was one remembering something of
any one believing that some meaning is existing.

She could lose anything, she did not lose remembering something of every one believing that
some meaning is existing. She might be losing anything. She did lose anything. She did remember
something of believing that every one is believing anything of something being existing. She
did lose anything.

Any one being any one is being one. Any one being that one is being that one. One being that
one is one being that one and being then the one not losing anything of that thing not losing
anything. That one, the one being that one and not losing anything is one completely clearly
not losing anything. That one is one being one having a sudden feeling of having lost something
and being then completely clearly searching and being then completely clearly not losing the
thing, not losing anything. This one is one completely clearly not losing anything. This one
is one not losing anything. This one is one completely clearly not losing anything.

Each one is one, there are many of them. Each one is one. Each one is that one the one that
one is. Each one is one, there are many of them. Each one is one.

Each one is one. Each one might be one being like every other one if every one was one being
like every other one. Each one is one. Each one is one not like every other one. Each one is
one. Any one is like any one. Every one is like every one. Each one is one. There are very
many of them. Each one is one.

Each one is one and is mentioning something of some such thing. Each one has been one and is
mentioning something of some such thing. Each one is one and is mentioning something of being
like any other one. Each one is one and is mentioning having been like any other one. Each
one is one. Each one is one and is mentioning having been, is mentioning being that one. Each
one is one. Each one is that one, the one that one is. Each one is one, each one is mentioning
such a thing.

That one being that one was one needing something, was one needing something to have been that
one. That one being that one was needing something, was one needing something to be that one.
That one was not that one. That one was mentioning that thing. That one was needing something
to be that one. That one was mentioning that thing, was mentioning that that one was needing
something to be that one.

That one had been one. The one that one had been was one who was not needing anything for being
that one. The one that one had been was one not winning everything in being that one. The one
that one had been was one doing everything and completing these things and not needing being
that one. The one that one had been was one continuing being that one. The one that one had
been was one willing to be needing something. The one that one had been was one almost willing
to be giving anything to win that thing. The one that one had been was one not winning that
thing. The one that one had been was one not needing winning that thing. The one that one had
been was one not being one who could be living in having won that thing. The one that one had
been was one not being able to live in winning that thing. The one that one had been was one
not having been needing winning that thing. The one that one had been was one expressing that
thing expressing having been the one that one had been. The one that one had been was one expressing
having been willing to be winning what that one had not been winning. The one that one had
been was one expressing being that one the one that one had been. The one that one had been
was one expressing being completing being willing, being not willing to be winning what she
had not been winning. The one that one had been was one expressing disillusion. The one that
one had been was one expressing illusion. The one that one had been was one expressing having
been such a one the one that one had been, was expressing having been completing willing the
thing she had not been winning. The one that one had been was expressing some such thing, was
quite mentioning every such thing. The one who had been that one the one quite mentioning everything
of any such thing was one who went on being such a one one mentioning everything of any such thing.

Mentioning something was something this one was completely expressing. Having been loving and
not having been then winning anything was something this one was mentioning. Having been marrying
and not having been needing all of that thing was something this one was mentioning. Having
been marrying and having been needing something of this thing was something this one was mentioning.
Being married and not completely using that thing was something this one was mentioning. Being
married and doing that thing, doing being married was something this one was mentioning. This
one was one mentioning something. This one was one completely expressing that thing expressing
mentioning something. This one was one having been mentioning everything. This one was one
completely expressing that thing expressing having been mentioning everything.

In expressing mentioning anything, in expressing mentioning everything she was that one the
one she was mentioning having been. In being one expressing mentioning any thing, in being
one expressing mentioning everything she was that one the one she was mentioning.

She was mentioning anything. In being that one, in expressing that thing in expressing mentioning
anything, mentioning everything she was one going and always completing that thing completing
and going on being one expressing mentioning anything, mentioning everything. In going on being
that one, in completing that that thing she was going on being one expressing mentioning everything,
mentioning anything.

In mentioning anything, in mentioning everything she was one expressing that mentioning anything,
that mentioning everything is not anything as everything is something that is a thing that
is not anything as everything is something that is just that thing. She was mentioning something.
She was mentioning that she was not the one some one was needing. She could mention that she
was not the one any one was admiring. She was one mentioning something. Any one can be one
mentioning something. In mentioning something that one was mentioning that she had not been
expressing anything of being one mentioning something. She was that one one mentioning something.
She was that one not mentioning anything. She was that one one completely mentioning everything
and mentioning it again and again and always then completing that thing completing mentioning
everything. She was then that one one completing again and again and again mentioning everything.
She was that one.

There are many who are telling anything in some way. Every one is one telling something in
some way. One was one telling anything in one way. That one was one being that one. That one
had been one loving in that way, loving in a way and telling something in a way, and telling
anything in a way. The way she was telling anything was a way that was a way she was realising
anything could be something. She was realising anything was something and the way she was telling
about anything was the way she was one being surprised by the thing that was anything. She
was surprised by anything being something. She was realising anything was something. She was
telling about anything telling about it in the way anything surprised her by being something.
She had been loving. She had not been surprised by everything of that thing. She had been surprised
by something of that thing. She was telling everything in the way she had been surprised by
something. She was telling anything in a way. She was telling everything in a way.

She was feeling something. She was feeling and she was remembering that feeling was existing.
She was feeling something and she would be remembering that feeling had been existing.

She was learning anything. She was liking knowing the thing she had come to be learning. She
was surprised at the thing being existing the thing she had just learned was existing. She
was surprised then. She was not surprised at everything. She was not surprised at anything.
She was surprised at everything. She was surprised at anything. She was in a way saying she
was being surprised at anything that she was knowing was being existing. She was saying in
a way saying something. She was saying something and saying it in a way. She was saying being
surprised at anything being existing and she was saying it in a way. She was saying that in
a way she was not surprised at any thing being existing.

She was saying something in a way. In saying anything in a way she was saying that she was
surprised at everything being existing. In saying everything she was in a way saying that she
was surprised to be feeling that anything is existing. In saying anything, she was saying that
she was knowing in a way that everything is existing.

She had been feeling something and she was remembering everything of what she had been knowing
she had been feeling and she had been knowing she had not been certain she had been feeling
what she had not been certain she was feeling. She had been feeling something, she had been
feeling something, she had not been certain that she had been feeling something. She remembered
everything of what she had been feeling. She remembered everything of feeling something. She
remembered everything of the feeling she had been feeling if she had been feeling something.
She remembered everything of that feeling of feeling something. She remembered everything,
she went on remembering everything of the feeling she had been feeling if she had been feeling
something. She had been feeling something. She remembered everything of that thing.

In saying anything she was saying that anything surprised her that surprised her and that anything
surprised her because anything is existing. In saying that anything is existing she was saying
that not anything surprised her because everything is existing and anything surprised her.
In saying anything she said it in the way she had been feeling when anything surprised her
and because anything surprised her she said everything in that way, she said everything in
the way she said anything. She said everything in the way that she was feeling that she was
not certain that she was feeling anything and was feeling that anything being something was
something that was a thing that would be to her a surprising thing. She said everything in
that way. She was saying something.

She was that one. There are many being living. Each one is one. There are many of them. Each
one is one, each one in being one and saying something is saying something in a way, is saying
anything in a way.

One was saying everything in a way. It was a very certain way. It was a very decided way. It
was a very clear way. It was a quite long way. It was a completely clear way. It was a complete
way. It was a delicate way. It was an entire way. It was a continuing way. It was a way that
was a way that would come to be a thing that any one would know was a way that was that way.

There are very many being living.

One who was such a one was one seeing and loving and being then that one and was one hearing
and loving and being then that one and was then that one the one being that one.

Some one was one living and hearing and seeing and being then all one loving, all one everything
and everything then was being one completing again and again what is necessary to loving being
existing. She was loving that is to say she was one being one in being the one giving what
is neccessary to loving being existing. She was hearing some one, she was giving then to that
one everything that is needing for loving to have been existing. She was seeing some one, she
was giving to that one the thing that being loving has been having. She was one who was one
seeing some one. She was one who was one hearing some one. She was one seeing one and she was
one being that one the one seeing that one and beginning then being the one who had seen that
one. She came then to be the one who had completed that thing completed seeing that one and
that one had been seen by her then and then it was all one her seeing that one, that one seeing
her and everything had been done then and sometimes was then done again. She was one hearing
one and she did then hear that one and she was then one being one who was coming to hear that
one and she came then to have heard that one and that one came then to finishing that thing
finishing her having been hearing that one and they finished that thing and it was then finished
again. She was one being that one and that was not troubling one who was one seeing and hearing
and being with that one and she was quite married to that one and they were both then married
and living and they were then living and going on being living and they were then going on
being married and being living.

Her voice, her pleasantness, her neurasthenia were expressing that she was being one who was
all one hearing and loving, seeing and loving, hearing and seeing and loving. Her voice which
was a pleasant thing was the voice of one who was one seeing and loving and hearing and loving
and seeing and hearing and loving. Her pleasantness which was a present thing was expressing
that she was one seeing and loving, hearing and loving, hearing and seeing and loving. Her
neurasthenia which had been a pleasant thing was something that was expressing that she was
one seeing and loving, hearing and loving, seeing and hearing and loving. Her pleasantness
which was a present thing was a pleasant thing. Her being one seeing and loving which was a
pleasant thing was a pleasant thing. Her being one hearing and loving which was a pleasant
thing was a pleasant thing. Her voice which was a pleasant thing was a pleasant thing.

She was one seeing and loving. She was one hearing and loving. She was one hearing and seeing
and loving. She was that one. She was one loving.

She was loving. She was being one who was completing being loving. That was a pleasant thing.
She was that one. She was loving. She was seeing and loving. She was hearing and loving. She
was that one.

She was one completing what loving was needing, which was a pleasant thing. She was completing
what loving was needing. She was that one.

In completing what loving was needing she was being that one. She was that one. She was seeing
and loving. She was hearing and loving. She was hearing and seeing and loving. She was completing
what loving was needing. She was completing loving, which was that thing. She was loving. She
was seeing and loving. She was hearing and loving.

She was hearing, she had not then been hearing. She was seeing, she had not then been seeing.
She had not then been hearing, which was a pleasant thing. She had not then been seeing, which
was a pleasant thing.

Being one loving, being one, she being one, she was one.

She was one, she was one and being one she was one seeing and loving, hearing and loving, seeing
and hearing and loving. She was one. She was one seeing and loving, hearing and loving.

She was one. She was loving. She was one. Being one she was one.

There are many living. There are many loving. There are many loving and marrying. There are
many loving and completing that thing and are not marrying. There are many loving. Some are
loving and are living in loving. Some are loving and are living. Some are loving and they are
one. Some are being one and are loving some and are living and are being one loving and are
being one living. She was one living some and she was loving some.

She was living. She was living and she was one being one living some. She was living some.
She was one living some and she was that one.

In being one living some she was one sitting some. In being one living some she was one sitting
some, she was one living some.

She was one living and she was one loving and in loving she was one sitting.

She was living enough, she was sitting enough. In being one living enough and sitting enough
she was one doing enough loving. She was doing enough loving to be living enough and sitting
enough.

She was one and that one the one she was was one who was living enough certainly living enough
to be loving some. She was loving enough to be loving enough. She was loving enough to be sitting
some. She was loving enough to be sitting enough.

She was one saying something saying that she was loving enough and living enough. She was one
saying that she was loving enough and sitting enough. She was one saying that she was living
enough and sitting. She was one saying that she was sitting enough.

She was one and being that one she was saying that she was that one enough. She was that one.
She was that one enough.

She was one. She was enough needing being that thing, she was quite needing that thing, she
was needing enough being that one.

She was one. She was one who was that one and was quite needing being that one. She was one.
She was one who was one living enough. She was one. She was one who was sitting enough. She
was one who was loving enough.

She was one and being one she was one being that one and she was being that one and being that
one she was one going on being that one quite enough going on being that one. She was going
on enough being that one. She was going on being one, she was one going on being the one she was.

In being that one she was one quite being one, she was one being enough one. In being that
one she was being one who was one who was going on enough in being that one. In being that
one she was going on being one loving enough, living enough, sitting enough.

She was large enough to be that one one sitting enough. She was large enough. She was giving
enough of being one loving enough, living enough, sitting enough to be one living enough. She
was giving enough of being one sitting enough, loving enough to be one going on living enough.
She was large enough to be one living enough, sitting enough, loving enough. She was large
enough. She was loving enough. She was sitting enough. She was living enough.

She was going on living and she was living enough. She was going on living. She was loving
enough. She was going on living enough. She was going on living. She was sitting enough. She
was going on living enough.

She was being one who did complete that thing quite complete that thing, quite complete sitting.
She was one and she was being one not troubling that thing not troubling being the one being
sitting. She was one and she was sitting and she was one and she was living enough. She was
one giving that thing giving that thing enough giving being one not troubling being that one
being the one sitting. She was one giving enough, she was one giving being one being one living
enough, loving enough, sitting enough, she was one giving enough, she was one giving being
one not troubling her being one being sitting. She was giving enough. She was loving enough.
She was sitting enough. She was living enough.

She was one, she was one and she was different enough from any other one. She was different enough.

She was one. There are some. There are many being living. There are many being living. There
are enough going on being living.

One going on being living, and she was going on being living, one going on being living was
one telling quite telling, clearly telling that some who are ones being living are ones smelling
and being living and smelling they are needing being ones using anything and being ones not
having everything are ones taking what they are needing and being ones taking everything are
ones smelling. Some one clearly telling everything is telling that such ones are ones being
living, and is clearly telling that one listening is one being one coming to be one not having
anything of that one being taken by any such a one.

Some are taking something, some are taking everything, some are not taking everything but would
be taking anything. Some are taking what they expect to be taking.

There are many being living. There is one being living. This one has been being living. This
one is one almost succeeding in not taking everything. This one is one taking anything. This
one is one having been expecting to be taking everything. This one has been taking what she
was taking. This one has been taking. She was expecting to be one any one would be expecting
to have taken what she was expecting to take. She was one quite succeeding in taking what she
was expecting to take. She might have been one succeeding in living. She might be one not succeeding
in living. She was one not having everything. She was one not going on expecting anything.
She was one being a quite sad enough one. She was one.

In being a sad enough one she was one who might have been one succeeding in living. She was
a sad enough one.

In being one who might have been one succeeding in living she was one who had not been failing
in living.

In being one who had not been failing in living she was one expecting and getting what she
expected to be getting by asking.

She had been one loving. She was one loving children. She had been one loving. She married
the one she was loving. Before she married the one she was loving she had had a child who had
not been born living. In having had a child who had not been born living she had been one not
needing that thing not needing having a child who had not been born living. In being one loving
children she had not been one sorrowing. In being one loving the one she was loving she came
to be one he was marrying.

She was married and she was expecting to be getting what she expected to get by asking and
she was expecting to be one expecting getting what she was getting. She was one going on being
one expecting to be getting what she was not completely asking and she came then to get something
of that thing, she came to get more of the thing which she expected to be getting. She was
succeeding in living. She expected to be getting what she expected to be getting. She went
on being one getting what she had expected she would be getting. She was being a sad one. She
was being a sad enough one.

She was one loving. She was one and she was one not expecting everything, she was one loving
and not marrying. She was one loving and not marrying and then she was married by him. She
married him and she was not expecting everything. She married him and they were living then
in that thing and she expected to be having everything for which she expected to be asking.

She was one succeeding in living that is she expected to be having what she expected to be
asking for. She did not expect everything. She expected to be one having what she was expecting.

She had this thing. She had loving children. She had one. He did not live to be going on being
living. She was not expecting that thing, she was not expecting him to be one not going on
being living. She was one not succeeding in living. She was a sad enough one. She was expecting
to be expecting what she asked for. She was expecting what she was asking for. She went on
expecting being one having that thing.

She was one liking children. She was a sad enough one. She was expecting being that one the
one she was being. She was being one being that one. She was one expecting having what she
was expecting.

Being that one she was creating remembering the thing remembering being that one. Remembering
being that one she was one not remembering being one having been that one.

She was one loving children. She was one being one remembering having been one creating being
a sad one. Being one loving children she was one refusing going on not creating being a sad
one. Being one refusing something she was one loving children. Being one refusing anything
she was one being a sad one. Being a sad one she was one going on creating having been that
one. She was one refusing being one not coming because she was creating being a sad one. Being
one being a sad one she was one creating coming because she was one going on loving children.
Being one loving children she was one creating waiting to be going. Being one creating waiting
to be going she was one being one having been the one she had been. Being that one the one
she was she was creating being that one. Being the one she was she was a sad one. Being loving
children she was one remembering she had been one being that one. Being that one she was waiting
being one refusing to be waiting. Being one refusing to be waiting she was one having been
one loving children.

Being one waiting to be refusing to be waiting is something. Being one creating that thing
is something. There are many of them.

Being one expecting what they are expecting is something. Being one creating that thing is
something. There are many of them.

Knowing everything is something. Knowing that in knowing everything one is leaving out something
is something that some one expecting everything is expecting. Expecting to be not expecting
anything is something.

One who was not expecting anything, that is to say one who was creating not expecting anything
was one not expecting anything. This one not expecting anything was creating this thing. This
one in creating that thing was one being one and that one being that one was creating not expecting
anything. In creating that thing that one was creating something. That one then came to be
one having something. That one then came to be needing everything. That one came then to be
having everything. That one then had everything. That was something. That one went on completing
that thing completing needing having everything, completing having everything.

That one is one. Another one is another one. Another one is one and she is one accepting what
she is accepting to be having. She is one accepting and completing that thing creating acceptation.

She was one and doing something, doing everything in helping, going on helping, coming to be
doing anything, she was that one she was married then and being one being that one she was
doing what was needed and anything was needed, something was needed, she was doing that thing.
She was married and was helping, she was coming in and remembering, remembering everything
and reminding the one she had married what he needed to remember to be one completely telling
how he had come to do what he had come to be doing. She was one doing everything, she was one
doing anything, she was one doing something to be helping to be going on being that one the
one helping. She was that one.

She came to remember everything. She had been remembering to be helping. She did remember everything.
She was helping.

She was doing what she was doing, she was helping. She was remembering what she was remembering,
she was helping. She was doing something to be that one, to be helping.

She was helping. She was moving anything that needed moving, she was leaving anything that
needed leaving, she was preparing anything that needed preparing, she was waiting for anything
that needed waiting, she was telling anything that needed telling, she was receiving anything
that needed receiving, she was filling anything that needed filling, she was expecting anything
that needed expecting. She was helping, she was that one, she did something to be that one,
she went on being that one.

She was helping, she was giving helping to the one who was one being one and she was that one
the one giving helping. She was that one. She was that one and she was one who came to be one
having been that one. She was that one and she came to be that one and she was then one having
been that one. She was that one.

In coming she was waiting, she had been loving and she was marrying and she was coming and
she would be waiting and she would be proceeding to be completing having been one having continued
helping. In coming she was remembering and starting and begging pardon and meaning to be continuing
and completing having been believing. She had been one helping one who was one who was that
one and in being that one was one who was that one. She one helping and was being one who was
helping one who was one.

She helped and she was one who had been that one. She helped and she was one who was continuing
being one who had been that one. She had helped and she was one who had been that one. She
had helped and she was one continuing being the one who had been that one.

She was one, she had been helping in waiting, she had been completing waiting, she had been
helping. She had been helping, she had been working, she had been moving, she had been waiting
to be questioning, she had been completing having been waiting to be questioning.

She was one, being that one was everything that being that one she was one accomplishing. She
was one completing in accomplishing being one being that one. She was one and being that one
and accomplishing helping and waiting to be questioning she was one who could be one arranging
in being that one to be one completing helping.

She was one moving and in moving she was not showing that in that thing she was that one coming
to be that one. In moving she was moving and in moving she was moving. She was moving and in
that thing she was that one and that one was one being one moving. She was that one.

She was one and in being one coming to be completing being that one she was one who was arranging
that she would remember that in being that one she had arranged being that one. She was one
having asked a question. She was one joining in being travelling. She had been travelling.
She was then travelling again. She was then joining in travelling being existing. She had been
one being one realising that she had been one completing helping. She had been one expressing
that being that one she was one and being one she was one expressing that she was one. She
had come to be one expressing being one, expressing having been one, she had been one completing
helping.

She was married, she had children. She had children and she had a child and in being that one
she was one completing arranging that she was one completing helping. She was one and she came
to be one being one. She was one and she was being one. She was one and she came to be one
being one and that one was one and being that one she was one who had been that one.

And being that one and having been that one she was one who in helping who in waiting to be
questioning who in having been that one is one and she is one who in moving is one and she
is one who in completing helping is one and she is one who in going on being one arranging
having been that one is one, and she is one who in going on arranging something is one and
she is one coming again to arrange something and in being that one in being one coming again
to be arranging something she is one. She is one, she is that one, she has been one, she has
been that one.

There are very many who being one are being the one helping some one. There are very many helping
in being the one helping any one. There are very many helping in being the one helping some.

There are very many and helping is being existing. A little helping is being existing.

A little helping being existing some one helping, quite a little helping any one is one quite
helping having some one quite helping her then. Some one having been quite a little helping
some is one coming to be one having some one helping her in not helping, not helping any one.

Quite a little helping being existing some one having been being one helping quite a little
helping is one being one helping one. Some one being one having been that one one having been
quite a little helping every one is one being one quite a little helping some one. Some one
being one having begun being one helping, quite a little helping any one is one being one helping
some one and being one being helped then quite helped then, being one quite helped in being
one not helping any one. A little helping has been existing. Helping is being existing.

If one is one and one being one that one is one, if one is one then one being one, and being
one is being one suffering in being one, then that one being one and being suffering is being
one, and being one and being suffering that one is one expressing anything. Being one being
suffering, that is being one not suffering, being one having been coming to be suffering and
having been one not having come to be doing that thing, being one being suffering that is being
one being breathing in having been coming, being one sighing that is being one heavily breathing,
being one suffering that is being one breathing in hurrying, being one suffering is something.
Being one being one not having been one being the one any one would have been in being that
one, being that one is something. Being one being one being the one being one coming from having
been the one being with one who was suffering is something.

Being one telling something about each one and being one beginning from the beginning in telling
that thing is being some one. Being one coming from having been hearing some one who was one
having been telling that some one was some other one is something. Being one telling some from
the beginning about some telling about any one being any other one is being some one.

She was one, she was enough one to be that one. She was that one. She was enough of that one
in being that one.

She was one and was then one mentioning that she was that one and in mentioning that thing
she was one expecting that she would be needing to be going on being that one. She was that
one and again in mentioning anything she was mentioning that in being that one she had been
one succeeding in expecting to be going on being that one. In being that one she was gathering
in being expecting to be going on being that one. In being that one she was going on gathering
in going on being that one.

If she was one and she was that one, if she was one she was not hearing everything. If she
was one and she was that one if she was one she was hearing something. If she was one and she
was that one, if she was one she was accepting anything. If she was one and she was that one
she was angrily refusing something she had been hearing. If she was one and she was that one
she was asking any one if she was one. If she was one and she was that one she was asking every
one for something. If she was one she was remembering that every one had tried to give her
that thing, or if she was one she was telling everything in telling that every one had been
one the one trying to give her what every one knew she was certainly one not giving. If she
was one she was that one.

She was one asking and giving and recommending and receiving and asking to be that one and
helping to be getting and expressing any one knowing that she was that one and asking any one
to be telling something of that thing and listening to any one having been not denying she
was that one and remembering that any one was one having come to be denying she was that one
and being one telling about such a thing and being one being one who might not have been that
one if she had not been that one and being one remembering that any one was remembering that
she was that one in being that one. She was one telling what she was hearing, she was then
quite telling every one. In being hearing something she was gasping. In being hearing something
she was sighing. In being hearing something she was talking. In being hearing something she
was remembering that she was one not offending. In being hearing something she was contenting
in producing hearing that thing. In being hearing something she was confirming that she was
hearing that thing. In being hearing something she was demonstrating that hearing that thing
was an outrageous thing. In being hearing something she was breathing that any one could hear
that thing. In being hearing something she was recounting that not any one would have heard
that thing. In being hearing something she was pleasing in not having been hearing all of that
thing. In being hearing something she was breathing in almost sleeping. In being hearing something
she was feeling that being dressed is exhausting. In being hearing something she was being
one who had been trembling. In being hearing something she was one who had been sighing. In
being hearing something she was being one who had been gasping. In being hearing something
she was one who would be completing telling. In being hearing something she was one expecting
to not be hearing everything. In being hearing something she was one having been one not hearing
any such thing.

In having been that one and being that one she was one and any one deciding that thing was
certain, she was one who could have something from recommending anything. In having been that
one and being that one she was one and any one was deciding that thing she was one having been
helping becoming a lighter one. In having been that one and being that one some who were deciding
were certain that she was one who was attracting. In having been that one and being that one
very many were deciding very often that she had been helping any one to be one not helping
her to be a completer one of a kind of a one. In having been that one and being that one every
one was hearing, seeing and having her be one asking any one anything. In having been that
one and being that one any one was having her having been doing anything to ask them to be
one asking her to do anything. In having been one, in being one she was being one and some
were deciding that not any one was suffering. She being one and having been one some were coming
to deciding that they were certain that some one had come to be suffering. She being one and
having been one some were deciding that she might have come to be destroying being that one.
She being one and having been one some were coming to be knowing that she was coming again
to be telling another thing. She being one and having been that one some might have been certain
that in telling everything she was telling something.

How could she be one and be that one. How could she be one and not be that one. How could she
be one and be that one, how could she be that one. How could she be one and be that one. How
could she be one and not be that one.

Every one knowing she was continuing was laughing. Any one knowing she was continuing was laughing.
Any one knowing she was continuing was certain was certain that she was continuing. Any one
knowing she was continuing and being certain she was continuing was certain she was continuing
being that one.

Being continuing is being continuing. She was continuing. Any one knowing she had been continuing
was certain that she had done that thing was certain that she had been continuing. Continuing
is continuing. Assisting continuing is assisting continuing.

Some one who is continuing is assisting continuing. This one assisting continuing is assisting
herself then is assisting herself to continue and in continuing is completely expressing what
some one, what some are in being ones being existing. Some one continuing is quite continuing
and in quite continuing is quite completely expressing what some are who are being existing.

This one continuing quite continuing and quite expressing quite continuing expressing what
some are who are being living, this one is continuing quite continuing, this one is quite wonderfully
continuing, quite completely, quite clearly, quite entirely, quite continuously continuing,
quite expressing quite completely expressing what some are who are being living.

This one being one continuing and continuing being continuing this one being continuing is
continuing expressing what some are who are being ones being living. This one is one continuing.
Continuing is continuing.

Any one being one, every one being one, many being living, some being feeling, some being in
having been going to be feeling, some being in wanting to be feeling, some being in expecting
feeling, some being in feeling, some being in completing feeling by coming to be feeling, some
being in continuing feeling in expecting to be feeling, some being in continuing going to be
feeling, some being in feeling being coming, some being in feeling being existing, any one
being one, every one being one, very many being living, there are some being living, there
is one being living, there are very many being living.

One being living, one being feeling, this one is one having been expecting to be feeling, this
one is one extending being feeling by not being feeling, this one is one completing being feeling
by wanting being feeling, this one is one being feeling and this one is one including feeling
by being one completely working.

In feeling in being feeling, in her feeling in her being feeling there is being existing that
feeling is being existing, that is there is being existing that she is feeling and she feeling
she is feeling something, and she feeling something she is working, and she working she is
working to be one keeping being living and she being working to be one keeping being living
and feeling something she is feeling that she is completing being feeling by being working
to be one keeping being living.

She being one and being working and she feeling and feeling something and she expecting to
be one always being one completing feeling she is one living in feeling being existing, she
is one working in feeling being existing.

She is one working. She is one working and to be one working she is one feeling something,
she is one feeling she is one living in feeling being existing and she being then one completely
working.

She is one feeling and she is one working in feeling being existing, she is one working and
she is one expecting to be one completely working and being one completely working she is one
working in feeling being existing. She is one feeling something and she is one completing that
thing in being one completely working.

She is not feeling that she is completing feeling being existing by being completely working,
she is feeling that she has been having feeling something, she is feeling that she is having
feeling something, she is feeling that she is completely working.

She is completely working, she is feeling something, she has been expecting to be feeling something,
she is expecting to be feeling that thing, she is not feeling that she is completely working
she is not completely feeling that thing.

She being one she is one remembering that other ones any other ones are ones having been, being
ones and they are ones not understanding anything, not being ones being ones who are working
in being ones, not working to be completing being ones. She being one she is feeling, she is
feeling that every one, that any one is being one and is feeling that every one are ones being
ones not feeling in working in completing anything. She being one she is one remembering that
every one is feeling something. She being one she is feeling then something.

In being one she was married and being married she had a child and she could have had more
then more children and being married then she could not have then more children.

In being one she was married. In being married she was completing that thing completing being
working. In being working she was having that thing having being married to some one. In being
married to some one she was continuing being one having expected to be one being one. In being
married she was continuing having what she was expecting to want to be having.

In being a married one she was one expecting not to be needing being any other one. In being
a married one she was one continuing to be expecting to continue being that one. In being a
married one she was having what she was continuing to be expecting to be having. In being a
married one she was a married one. In being a married one she was continuing being a married
one. In being a married one she was continuing being one expecting to be continuing being that
one. In being a married one she was a married one.

In being a married one she had a child. In having a child she was one continuing being one
having that one. In having a child she was completing that thing by being one having that one
having that child. In having that child she was remembering that children being existing she
was having that child and in having that child she was one deciding not to be questioning about
that child having been one and coming to be that one. In having that child and questioning
about children being existing she was repeating that she could be deciding that the child she
had was that one. She had a child. She had that one. She was repeating that thing. She was
repeating that she had that child, that she had that one. She was repeating that that child
was that one.

She was expressing that that child was that one. She was again and again expressing that thing.
She was expressing that her child was that one. She was expressing that thing. She was that
one the one expressing that thing.

She was one expressing that thing. She was one having that thing having expressing that her
child was that one, was one, was the one that child was. She was remembering children were
existing. She was completely remembering that her child was one, was that one, she was completely
remembering that thing.

In remembering that children are existing she was mentioning that children being existing and
her child being that one, her child was one and being one she was mentioning that thing. She
mentioning that thing, mentioning that her child was that one, she mentioning that thing was
mentioning that children are existing.

In being one she was completing, completing that she was doing what she was completely willing
to be doing to be one completing going on being married and having the child that was the child
she had. She was one completing going on being willing to be completing going on being that
one and going on being married and going on having their child. She was one completing going
on being living, she and the two of them.

She and the one of them, she and the two of them she was completing going on being living.

Any one living, every one living, very many living, one living. One living everything is existing.
One existing, that is everything. There is one living. One living, that is everything. One
is everything. One living is everything. One living is anything. One living, everything is
existing. That one existing, that is everything. One existing, that is everything. One living,
that is everything.

Some are living. Several are living. She living, she being living is being one needing what
she is taking. She is taking what she is needing. She is remembering not refusing what she
was not taking. She is not remembering taking what she is not needing.

She was not taking everything. She was taking what she had taken. She was remembering taking
what she had taken. She was remembering going on taking what she had taken. She did not refuse
what she did not take. She was taking what she was taking. She remembered something which she
had been taking. She remembered what she had taken. She remembered what she was taking.

She began being one and in beginning she was one and being one she was one needing to be taking
what she had been taking. She began being one and in beginning being one she was one. In being
one she was that one and in being that one she was using what she was taking. In using what
she was taking she was not taking what she was not using. In using what she was taking she
was needing to be using what she was using. In needing to be using what she was taking she
was taking everything she was taking. In using what she was taking she was using anything she
was taking. In taking anything she was not refusing what she was not taking. In refusing anything
she was being one taking what she was taking. In taking anything she was using what she was
taking. In using anything she had used that thing. In taking anything she had used that thing.

Why in taking something had she not taken everything, why in taking everything had she been
asking for something, why in using anything had she refused that thing, why in telling everything
has she stopped telling everything, why in remembering everything did she forget anything,
why in forgetting everything did she continue telling something, why in telling something did
she ask to remember everything, why in asking to remember everything did she give forgetting
anything, why being that one is she being that one, being one being a careful one, being one
using not being that one, being one asking to be using being that one, being one liking having
been using that one, why not using being that one is she being that one, why using being that
one is she one not having that thing not having using being that one, why being that one is
she not being that one when she being that one is needing to be using what she is taking, is
taking what she is using, is taking what she is needing, is needing what she is taking, why
being that one is she one and she is one and she is that one, why then is she one carefully
being that one if she is one not using being that one, why is she one not needing being that
one when she being that one is one needing what she is using, why being that one is she one
and she is one one being one who is taking what she is using, who is taking what she is needing,
who is not refusing what she is not using, who is needing what she is taking, who is taking
what she is needing, why is she that one, she is that one because such a one is one not being
one who is being one but is being one in being one taking what she is needing.

This one is one who was one and being that one was one having taken one in being taken by that
one and having taken that one in being taken by that one was leaving that one in being left
by that one. In leaving that one in being left by that one she was one needing what she was
taking. In being one coming to be taking what she was needing she was one being one using what
she was needing. She was one then using what she was taking. She was then a married one and
in being a married one she was one having been needing what she was taking and using what she
was taking she was completing being one carefully taking and carefully using what she was needing.

She was one, she was a married one, she had children, she was a pleasant one and any one not
being a pleasant one is not a pleasant one and this one was not a pleasant one and any one
being a pleasant one is a pleasant one. This one was one. There are many of them. This one
was one, there are quite a number of them. This one was one. This one and there are a number
of them of this kind of them this one was one quite one of that kind of them. There are many
of them. There are many of any kind of a one. There are many women, many being living.

There is one being living. She is doing that thing. She is getting getting everything. She
is getting everything that she is needing. She has to have what she has to have. She is getting
what she has to have. She has what she has to have. She has that.

She has what she has. She has what she has to have. She has everything that she has to have.
She has to have what she has to have. She has what she has to have.

She is one. She is that one. She is giving all of that one. She has to have what she has to
have. She has what she has to have. She has everything.

This one is one. She is that one.

Some other ones who are ones are ones and being ones are ones wanting to have what they have
to have and being such ones are ones and they are ones who if they had been ones having what
they had to have would have been ones having what they had to have. They would have been ones
having what they had to have if they had been ones coming to be ones having what they have
to have. They are ones needing being ones giving what they are needing to be giving and being
ones needing to be giving what they are needing to be giving they are ones not coming to be
ones having been having giving what they are needing to be giving.

One is one and being that one is one being one having been one and being one needing to have
what she is needing to have. She has this thing, she has needing to have what she is needing
to have. She has been having this thing she has been needing to have what she has been needing
to have. She is being one and she is one having been receiving that thing having been receiving
needing to have what she has to have. She is one who would have been such a one needing to
have what she has to have if she were such a one if she were one needing to have what she has
to have. She is one. She has to have what she has to have and she would be such a one if she
were such a one.

She was one who in beginning was nicely that one. She was one who in completing that beginning
was beautifully that one. She was one continuing and being that one and was then a pleasant
one in going on succeeding in being that one. She was then that one and was then going on being
that one. She was then one, she was then quite that one.

She was that one and being that one and having that thing having needing being receiving having
what she was needing having she was one being one being that one and being that one she was
one refusing something and refusing that thing she was refusing what she was not needing to
be having. Refusing that thing she was laughing, refusing that thing she was persisting, re-refusing
that thing she was refusing what she was not needing to be having.

She was one and she was needing what she was needing to be having. She was one and she was
one going on being one that one the one needing to be having what she was needing to be having.
She was that one.

She had a feeling and she was saying something she was saying that being one she was being
that one. She had a feeling and being then walking she walked very much and walking very much
she was feeling that being one she was that one.

She was one and telling something she was certain that she had been telling that she being
one she was that one. She being one and deciding that in walking she would not be running she
running was liking that she was running and liking that, she was knowing that she would be
agreeing that she being one she was that one.

She knowing that she could be agreeing that being one she was that one she was feeling in being
one receiving encouraging in being one. She being one receiving encouraging in being one was
certain that she could be telling that in being one she was that one.

In being certain that she could be telling that in being one she was that one she was feeling
in being one who was certain to be gently denying something.

She was that one and certainly if she could be one having what she was needing to be having
she could have been one asking for everything. She was that one and if she was one certain
to be gently denying something she was one feeling in being one who was coming not to have
been having what she had been needing to be having. In being one feeling in being one who was
one not having what she was needing to be having she was being one deciding in telling anything.
In being one deciding in telling anything she was defining that in being one she was being
that one.

She was that one and she was one who deciding that being that one she was hearing something
was one deciding that if she was one having what she was needing to be having could be one
hearing something that she being that one had been deciding that she was not hearing.

She being that one she was one deciding that being that one she might go on being that one.
She being that one, she was one deciding and being one deciding she was deciding that she might
be that one. She was deciding that she might be that one and she was then being one deciding
that she would be deciding about going on being one who was one hearing what she would be hearing.
In deciding about hearing what she would be hearing she was deciding that she could be one
who would be deciding to be expecting to be having what she was needing to be having. In being
one who was deciding to be expecting to be having what she was needing to be having she was
deciding that being that one she was one expecting anything. In deciding that she being that
one she was one expecting anything she was deciding that she was going on being that one. In
going on being that one she was quite deciding that she was needing what she was needing to
be having. In deciding to be that one she was being one expecting anything. In expecting anything
she was expecting to be going on being that one. In going on being that one she was deciding
to be deciding what she was going to be hearing. In being that one she went on being one.

She was one. There was another one. Another one was one and being one was one who in studying
was learning learning what she had been studying. In studying she was one going on working
and in going on working she had been learning and in having been learning she was that one
the one she was.

In being that one the one she was she was deciding that she was not needing being one having
any other thing. In deciding that thing she was agreeing that she was one and she was agreeing
that she was quite that one and she was agreeing that some needed something that they needed
to be having.

She was one and in being that one and she was that one she needed enough of being that one
to be needing being studying and being studying she was one having been learning what she had
been studying.

She was that one, she was needing that thing needing being that one, she was studying, she
was needing that thing needing studying, she had been learning what she had been studying,
she was needing that thing she was needing having been learning what she had been studying.
She was this one. She was an older one. She was knowing what she had been studying and learning.
She was quite that one. She was that one and she was enough that one to be one being one and
she was enough one to go on being one and she was enough one to be an older one.

There are then some. There are many of them. Any of them being living are going on being living
and when they are dead ones and all of them sometime are not living, there are then some of
them, there are then many of them.

There is one. She is one being one and being one she is one creating that thing creating that
there is one. In creating that thing creating that she is one she is not creating anything.
In not creating anything she is being that one she is being the one not creating anything and
in being that one she is one and in being one she is creating that thing creating being one.
She is one. She is that one. What a tender thing it is to be one. What a one she is the one
that is one. She is one and being one she is a tender one and being a tender one she is one.
She is one. She is a tender one. She is that one. She is the one that is one. She is a tender
one. She is that one the one that is a tender one. She is one. She being one she is one. She
is one and being that one she is being creating being one. She creating being one she is a
tender one. If she is in a way a tender one and she is in a way a tender one, if she is in
a way a tender one she is telling about being loving. If she is a tender one and in a way she
is a tender one, if she is in a way a tender one then when she is in a way a tender one she
is telling that she could have been needing having loving.

She was needing having loving. She was being a tender one in telling that she had been needing
having loving. She was a tender one in telling that she would have been needing having loving.

In being a tender one she was one being one who being loving was telling that she would have
been needing having loving. In being a tender one she was one giving being that one.

In being a tender one she was one telling about having been loving and not having been a tender
one. In being a tender one she was telling that she had been loving, that she had been having
loving, that she had not been a tender one.

If she were telling everything she was telling she would have been an honest one. She was not
telling everything she was telling.

She was not an honest one that is some were certain that she was an honest one. She was an
honest one that is some were certain that she was an honest one.

In being an honest one she was a good one. In being an honest one she was telling what she
was telling. In being an honest one, in telling what she was telling, she was needing being
one being an honest one in being a good one in being one being telling what she was telling.

In being one succeeding she was one helping any one to be certain that in being succeeding
she was not having that thing she was not having being succeeding. In being succeeding she
was helping any one to be certain that in being succeeding she was being one being succeeding.

She was not coming again. In not coming again she was being one who was one who would not be
coming again. In being that one she was receiving that she was being one who would not be coming
again. In being that one she was one who being one receiving something was receiving that she
was one who might be one coming again.

In coming again she came and in coming she was one continuing to be receiving that she was
one who might have been one who would not be coming again, she was one continuing to be receiving
that she was one who might have been one who would be coming again.

She had not come, she did come, in coming she came and in having come she had been one who
had been one who would come. In having been one who had been one who would come she was one
who could have been one who would not come. She came.

In coming she was one coming and in being one coming she was one who had come and in being
one who had come she was one who was one not coming if she had been one who had not come. If
she had been one who had not come she would have been that one the one who had come.

She would not go on remembering that she had not been using anything. She would go on remembering
that she had been using something. In remembering that she had been using something she was
being that one the one who had been coming. In remembering that she had been using something
she was being that one the one who might not have been coming.

In being one she was one who if it took courage to be one being living could be one being living.
In being one being living she was living in being one having courage and in being one having
courage being one being living. If it took courage to do something and she did that thing she
was one being one who had done that thing. If it took courage to do something she having done
that thing she was being one who had courage. If something was done and she had not done that
thing she was being one who had not done that thing. If something was done and it needed courage
to do that thing and she had not done that thing she was then one who had not done that thing.

In doing everything in being one doing something she was being one who was doing what she did
for every one. In doing what she did for every one she was one doing anything for any one.
In doing anything for any one she was doing everything.

She did everything, she did anything, she did something for any one and in doing something
for any one she was being one who was not needing that anything was being done. In not needing
that anything was being done she was being one and being one she was one whom anybody accepting
was realising as being one who was one who not needing that anything was being done was one
doing anything.

In being one doing anything she was one remembering that she was not needing that anything
was done. In being one remembering that she was not needing that anything is done she was one
reminding any one of something they should be doing. In reminding any one of something they
should be doing she was being one doing anything. In doing anything she was being one being
that one and being that one and not needing that anything be done she was one coming. And in
coming and in going and in staying and in waiting and in running and in asking and in buying
and in loving she was one doing that thing doing anything and being that one one not needing
that anything be done. She was being that one and in being that one she was one who if she
could be one telling everything was telling that if she were doing a thing and it took courage
to do that thing she had done that thing. She was one and if she could be one telling anything
she was one who would be one telling that if she did not do something and it would take courage
to do that thing she not having done that thing would be telling every one everything.

She being one she was not needing that anything was done. She being that one and doing everything
was doing anything.

She was one and being loving and having been that thing and being one who, something needing
courage to be done, had done that thing and being one not having done something and being that
one, she being that one and being loving had been loving and having been loving and having
been doing that thing and having been doing everything in doing that thing she was one and
being one she was doing anything and being one she was that one the one who not needing that
anything is done is loving and having done that thing has been one having been loving.

She in living continued being living and this being what was happening she was continuing being
that one. In continuing being that one she, doing everything, was continuing and in continuing
she was one being one steadying that continuing is existing. Continuing is existing, she was
being one and being one, continuing not being existing, she would not be one. She was one and
she would be one if she was one. If she was one and she was one, if she was one she was one
continuing. She was one. She was continuing.

She was one and being one and doing anything she was one continuing and continuing she was
being one who in being one was one who if in doing something she was needing courage was if
she was doing that thing being that one. She was that one and being one and continuing, continuing
being existing, she was that one, she was that one and doing everything and not needing that
everything, not needing that something, not needing that anything was done, she was continuing
in being one, she was doing anything, she was continuing she was therefor certainly being one.

She was that one. There are many of them. Why are there many of them. There are many of them
because there are many of each kind there are and she was of one kind. There are many of them.
Why are there many of such a kind of them. There are many of such a kind of them because that
kind is a kind. That kind is a kind. There are many kinds. That kind is a kind and any one
of that kind of them is one that is being one living in being living the way that kind of them
live in being living. There are very many of any kind.

There are kinds in women. There are enough kinds and being enough kinds there are enough of
each kind. There are very many of them. Each one is living. Any one is living. Any one living
is in living coming to be going on living.

One who is one and is an especial one, one who is one and that one is one and is an especial
one, in being one and certainly being a kind of a one is creating that thing is creating not
being a kind of a one is quite creating that thing. Creating that thing is something. Creating
not being a kind of a one is something. This one being one creating not being a kind of a one
is one and having been creating that thing this one has been creating everything and creating
everything this one is that one. This one is not a kind of a one. This one is one. She is that
one. She is that one and being one being creative she is creating being one who is not a kind
of a one.

There are many being living who if they were being what they would be being if they had been
created to be creating would have been creating being one who is not a kind of a one. One who
would if she had been creative would have been creating that she was not a kind of a one was
one who was resisting quite resisting being certain that she was one who was a kind of a one.
She was one who was creating that she would be resisting being certain that she was a kind
of a one. She was one who being a kind of a one was not listening in creating that she would
not be certain that she was a kind of a one.

She being loving and she was loving, she being loving and not succeeding not succeeding in
being loving, she being loving was feeling that she was not creating being that one.

She was loving. She being a loving one and being certain that she was not listening to being
a kind of a one and feeling that she was not completing creating being one was one who not
troubling every one in being one was one feeling any one feeling that she was one as any one
was one feeling that she was one.

Any one was one feeling that she was one and she was that one she was the one whom any one
was feeling was that one. In being that one she was one deciding that she was not succeeding
in being loving. In deciding that thing she was developing that she was being one who had been
one coming to be one deciding what she would be deciding.

She was one and being one being loving and being one deciding that she had been one who would
be coming to decide what she would decide and being one expecting to be developing being one
who would express that thing express developing and being one who would be one earning needing
to be expecting to be completing being one, being that one and being one being loving and being
one who was not one succeeding in being loving she was one who was succeeding. She was succeeding,
she was giving that thing, she was giving that to some.

In understanding anything she was being that one the that one who if she was feeling would
be deciding that the thing she was understanding was a thing that she should be rejecting and
being one accepting what she was understanding she was being one who was accepting something
very often. In being one she was one accepting something very often and being that one she
was being one feeling in understanding anything, feeling in understanding and being then that
one being one feeling, she was one who understanding something was deciding that she was one
accepting and rejecting something. In being one understanding anything she would be one feeling.
In understanding anything she was one feeling. In understanding anything she was one being
one who was feeling in being one who was one who being that one was one having decision in
being one who in understanding anything was rejecting and accepting something. She being one
and having feeling she was one and in understanding anything she was that one the one understanding
something and accepting and rejecting something. In being that one she was one and in being
one she was feeling and in being one rejecting and accepting something she was one being one
understanding something and having feeling. In being one having feeling she was being that
one and being that one she was one feeling in understanding something and being that one and
accepting and rejecting something she was one and being that one she was feeling. In being
that one and accepting and rejecting something she was feeling that in understanding something
she was accepting and rejecting something. In being one she was that one, she was feeling that
thing.

In coming and going she was being one expressing enthusiasm and in expressing enthusiasm she
was expressing needing enjoying and in expressing needing enjoying she was expressing feeling
everything and in expressing feeling everything she was expressing being one coming. In expressing
being one coming she was being one who in being coming was continuing enthusiasm. In continuing
enthusiasm she was one being loving. In being loving she was being one being feeling. In being
feeling she was one coming and going. In being feeling she was one coming. In being feeling
and going she was one being feeling. In being feeling she was coming, in being feeling she
was going.

She was feeling and coming. She was feeling and going. She was feeling and coming and going.
She was feeling, she was moving, in being feeling she would be exciting if she were not being
so excited in not coming, in not going, in moving, in feeling, in coming, in going, in enthusiasm.
She was being excited and in being excited and in being one who would be exciting if she were
excited she was feeling and in feeling she had enthusiasm and in enthusiasm she was being that
one the one who was excited, the one who would be exciting in feeling, in moving, in coming,
in going, in enthusiasm. She would be exciting, she would be exciting if being excited in enthusiasm,
in coming, in going, in moving, in feeling would be exciting. She was exciting if being excited
in feeling, in enthusiasm, in coming, in going, in moving, in staying is exciting. She was
excited in enthusiasm. She was feeling in staying, in coming, in going, in feeling, in enthusiasm,
in moving. She was enthusiastic in being one who could be exciting if feeling in enthusiasm,
in staying, in coming, in going, in moving, in listening, in walking were exciting. She was
one feeling, she was one walking and listening and going and staying and coming and moving,
she was one having enthusiasm, she was one being exciting if one were being exciting in feeling,
in walking, in listening, in staying, in moving, in coming, in going, in having enthusiasm.

She was one and being one and being that one she was the one who was the one who in listening,
in talking, in walking, in moving, in going, in coming, in staying, in having enthusiasm was
one who was completely one being one having the enthusiasm in being one who being excited would
be exciting if being that one was being exciting and in being that one she was the one being
all of that one being quite all of that one, being everything and in being everything and she
was being that one she was one feeling and being one feeling and she being that one and being
one having enthusiasm and she being that one she was being one and she was all of that one,
she was everything, she was that one and being that one she was one who was one and being one
and being the one who was one she was all of that one and being all of that one she was everything
everything of being one who would be exciting if being all of being the one who was feeling
in enthusiasm, in moving, in staying, in coming, in going, in listening, in talking, in moving
were being one who was exciting. She was all of that one. She was every bit of that one. In
being every bit of that one she was one and being one she was all of that one.

This was one who was all of that one. There are many. All of them are all of the one they are.
There are many all of them are not all of the one they are. There are many. There are very
many women. There are very many living. There are many of them.

One of them and being all of that one is everything and being everything is exciting. She is
not exciting because she is all of that one. She is not exciting because she is everything.
She is exciting. She is everything. She is all of that one. This one and she is exciting, this
one is feeling and being feeling she is completely exciting and being completely exciting she
is everything and being everything she is all of that one. She is all of that one. She is every
bit of everything. She is that one the one she is and being that one she is such a one, such
a wonderful one, and being such a wonderful one she is that one and she being that one she
is every bit that one. She is a wonderful one, she is exciting, she is everything, she is every
bit that one. She is the one who is everything. She is the one who is exciting.

She being exciting and being a wonderful one she is exciting, she being the one who is exciting
is one being feeling and being feeling she is everything and being everything she is every
bit that one.

There is this one. This one is. She is every bit that one.

Any one who is one who is a woman and very many who are ones are being such ones, all of them
are ones who being ones and being ones who are certainly being careful to go on not doing what
they might be doing are ones who could come to be certain that if they would they could and
if they would they could not do what they might be doing. There are very many being living.
There are some being living. There are some who are living. There are some.

One was living. She was moving some. She was not going when she was moving she was moving so
as to be where she could see the place where she had been. She was not moving so as to do that
thing. She was not moving because she wanted to see the place she had been. She was moving
because if she could have what she was needing she would not be having anything. She was moving
and she was not going. She could see the place where she had been.

She was one. Any one mentioning that thing was mentioning that she was that one. She was one.
In feeling that thing she was not mentioning that thing she was not mentioning that she was
that one.

In moving she was one coming to be mentioning something to every one. In mentioning something
to every one she was mentioning that she had been moving and had not been going. In mentioning
that thing she was mentioning that she was interesting any one who was interested in that thing.
In mentioning that she was telling any one that she was loving some one she was mentioning
that she had come to be certain that loving is existing. In mentioning that she had come to
be certain that loving is existing she was being one who mentioning everything to every one
was one not expecting everything. In not expecting everything she was one helping any one.
In helping any one she was moving and in moving she was not coming she was not going, she was
moving and she could see from where she was she could see where she had been, she could see
that place then, she could move so as to see any place where she had been.

In being where she could see any place where she had been she was not looking. She was moving
then. In moving she was moving to where she could have seen every place where she had been.

In working and she could be working in the evening or in the morning or in the early part of
the afternoon or towards evening, in working and she could be working and in being one she
was working, in working she was teaching and in teaching she was telling that in working she
was teaching and in teaching she was helping every one, she was helping herself, she was helping
some, she was helping some one.

In being one and having been living she had been one and had not been telling everything of
that thing, she had been one and had been intending to be one who had not but who would be
telling everything of that thing. In being that one and being living she was one coming to
be telling everything and in telling everything she was one not completing expecting everything.
In not completing expecting everything she was telling that being one telling something she
was continuing being one telling everything. In continuing telling everything she was not completing
expecting something. In not completing expecting something she was expecting and expecting
she was moving and moving she was where she could see where she had been and being there she
was moving and moving she was being where she could see where she had been. In being there
she was working. She could work in the evening. She could work in the morning. She could work
in the afternoon. She did work and working she was teaching and teaching she was telling that
she was expecting everything and expecting everything she was loving and loving she was telling
every one everything.

Being one and that was that thing, being one and helping she was one expecting to be helping
that thing. In expecting to be helping that thing she was helping anything and helping anything
she was being one teaching and being teaching she was telling something to some.

In telling something to some she was telling that thing again. In telling that thing again
she was telling it again and in telling it again she was again telling it again and in again
telling it again she was telling it again.

In telling it again she was one being one expecting everything expecting to be telling it again.
In being one expecting to be telling it again she was being one and being that one she was
one expecting everything. In expecting everything she was being one and being one she was loving
some one and loving some one she was expecting, that one being loving, she was expecting everything
and she was then telling every one that she was that one she was one, who loving some one and
that one loving, was expecting everything. In telling every one that she was expecting everything
she was telling every one that she was teaching and in telling every one that she was teaching
she was asking every one if any one was not one who could be one expecting everything.

She was one moving. She was one moving again. If she had been one looking she could have been
seeing from there where she was she could have been seeing where she had been in being moving.
She was not one looking between moving. In not looking between moving she was hearing herself
asking any one if she would be moving. In asking any one this thing she was disturbing the
one and disturbing the one she had moved and having moved she moved to where she could look
if she did look and see where she had been. In asking everything she was helping everything,
in helping everything she was asking that she was telling that she was teaching and doing that
thing. In helping everything she was asking if she was not telling everything. In telling everything
she was asking if she was not teaching. In being teaching she was asking if she was not loving.
In loving she was asking if she was teaching everything. In teaching everything she was asking
if any one needed any helping. In asking if any one needed any helping she was asking everything.
In asking everything she was asking it again. In asking it again she was teaching. In teaching
she was telling anything. In telling anything she was telling it again and in telling it again
she was asking that, thing and in asking that thing she was asking it again.

She was that one, she was that one and being that one and telling something and telling it
again she was that one and being that one she was all of that one and being all of that one
she was being one who was that one.

There are many being living, there are enough of them so that any one who is wanting to meet
all of them can meet very many of them. There are very many of them. There are enough of them
so that every one who can be taught something by any of them can be one being taught something.
There are very many being living. There are very many.

One who can teach some one everything in teaching that one everything is teaching that one
that everything being something that one can learn everything from that one. That one being
one teaching is one teaching some one everything. That one being one learning everything is
being one being taught everything by the one that can teach that one everything. That one the
one that can teach some one everything is that one and being that one and understanding that
thing clearly understanding that thing clearly understanding that she teach some one everything
is telling that thing quite telling that thing and completely often is beginning to go on teaching
teaching everything. Being that one and being one teaching some one everything that one is
that one completely that one the one teaching to the one learning everything. These then are
two then who are knowing that one can teach everything. These two then are two mentioning that
thing that one can teach one everything. That one the one teaching is one mentioning quite
often mentioning that thing.

There are many being living. There are enough of them so that every one can meet some. There
is one being living. She is one telling that she being one being living she is being living
enough so that every one wanting to meet her can ask her if she is the one they are wanting
to have tell them that she being living is living enough to explain all of that thing.

She being living enough is knowing that any one meeting her is knowing her enough to know that
she being living can explain enough that she is the one living enough. In being the one knowing
that she can explain enough to any one that she being living enough is that one she is one
knowing that any one she is knowing is knowing her enough to know that she can explain enough
that she is the one who is living enough.

She being one knowing that any one knowing her is knowing her enough to know that she can explain
what she can explain enough she being one knowing this thing is being one explaining everything
enough and in explaining everything enough she is explaining that she being living she is living
enough to be explaining everything that she explaining enough is explaining.

She is one explaining enough, she is explaining that thing enough, she is explaining enough
that she is explaining enough. In being that one she is one telling something. In being one
telling something she can be one telling everything. In being one who can be telling everything
she is telling that she is telling what she is telling.

She could come and coming she would not come again if she were not certain that in coming again
she was feeling and in feeling she was being that one the one doing all of the right thing
that she would have been deciding to do if she had already come to a decision.

In coming again she would be one telling something and being one telling something she could
come to be one telling everything.

She was one feeling and in feeling she was one going and in going she was knowing that she
would not be explaining enough that she had been going. In going she was being one and in being
that one she was not telling all of everything and in not telling everything she was knowing
that she could not be explaining enough that she could not tell all of everything.

In being that one and she was that one, in being that one she was one explaining enough in
explaining enough that she was living enough and that in living enough any one knowing her
was knowing her enough so that they could know that she was living enough to explain enough.

She being that one and she was that one she was one and any one knowing her enough was knowing
enough that she was that one and knowing enough that she was that one was knowing that in telling
something she was telling enough to be one who could be enough one telling everything. She
was that one and being that one she was the one who was being that one and being the one who
was being that one she was one who was enough one and being enough one she was the one who
being that one was being one who was that one. In being one who was that one she was the one
who was one who was being that one.

In talking and any one talking could be one knowing that she was one talking, in talking and
she was talking in telling anything that was needing that talking is existing, in talking she
was one deciding that not deciding is something and not deciding being something she was one
and could be one who was deciding and deciding was just such a thing.

She was one who had been one and she could remember everything of all of that thing.

In telling she was telling that it was happening that she could remember all of everything.

She was telling that if she had not been one remembering everything she would not be one being
the one telling what she was telling. She was telling that being the one telling what she was
telling she had been one carefully chosen in choosing to be the one she was being.

She was telling that in developing she had not been changing and this was something that was
a curious thing as she was coming to be one deciding to choose to be changing enough to be
telling that which she was going on telling.

If she had been doing what would be frightening she would have been one exercising everything.
She was one who could be one being an uneasy one and being one then not remaining interesting.
She was not interesting in not being loving. She was never loving. If she had been loving she
would have liked marrying. In almost following some one she came to be one who was not a married
one. She was not loving. She was not marrying.

She was not at all marrying. If she had been one continuing to be one staying when she was
an uneasy one she might have been one coming to be marrying. She was an uneasy one and that
was a strange thing, she was an uneasy one in being an ordinary enough one. She was not interesting
in being one not loving. She would not have been loving if she had followed when she almost
followed one. She was not loving when she was being one being living. She was not loving.

She did what she did, she said that she would do what she did when she said what she said and
she said that she said what she said.

If in remembering everything she followed everything she would remember very much and she did
remember very much, she followed everything she remembered and she remembered everything.

She could do what she did. In doing what she did she could do everything she did and in doing
everything she did she did everything. In doing everything she was being that one the one saying
that she did everything she did when she said what she said and she said what she said.

In doing everything she was being one being one attacking and in being one being attacking
she was being one saying that she was only being one attacking when she was saying what she
said and she said what she said.

She could say that she knew some thing. She could say that thing.

Some one knowing something could say something. She said that thing, she said some one knowing
something could say something.

Some did say something. Any one said something. Any one knowing something and saying something
and she saying something she was saying that having been coming to know what the one knowing
something and saying something was knowing she could say something and saying that, she could
say something that the one saying something had not been knowing and not been saying. She could
say something. Knowing something she could say something.

Feeling that she had been enjoying she was saying that she had been enjoying what she had been
enjoying and saying that thing she could be saying that being that one and enjoying something
she could say that she had been enjoying what she had been enjoying.

She said that she would be enjoying something, in saying that thing she was saying that she
would not be enjoying that thing if she would not be enjoying that thing and she would be saying
that she had not enjoyed that thing if she had not enjoyed that thing.

In helping any one and in being one helping any one she was helping any one, in helping any
one she was saying that she was continuing and being the one continuing she would be helping
any one if she was the one being the one she was and she was that one and in helping any one
she was helping any one.

Being that one she was the one planning that in continuing she would be arranging to have something.
In arranging to have something, she was not being one. In being one she was telling something
and in telling something she was hearing that she was one telling something and hearing that
she was one telling something she was telling that in telling something she was telling what
she was telling.

In expecting to be continuing she was feeling and feeling that she needed something and she
was arranging so that she would have something and in arranging that she would have something
she was feeling what she was telling.

In succeeding she was one who could be the one succeeding in doing what she was doing. In succeeding
she was the one telling what she was telling, she being one having been hearing what she had
been hearing when she was telling what she was telling.

She was that one. She was the one who was the one that was that one.

Knowing that any one is doing what that one is doing, suspecting that any one is the one that
one is, is what some one, who is one and is all of the one who is what she is, is completely
doing. This one the one who is all of what she is, is one suspecting that any one is what they
are, is knowing that any one is doing what they are doing. She is all of that one and being
all of that one is knowing everything, is suspecting everything. She is suspecting anything
and in suspecting anything is deciding to be suspecting something and in suspecting that thing
is suspecting that every one is doing what every one is doing. She is knowing anything and
knowing anything of any one is one deciding that something she is knowing of every one is what
every one is and she is knowing everything. She is that one. She is all of that one. She being
all of that one and suspecting everything and knowing everything is all of one.

There are some suspecting something. There are some knowing something. There are some knowing
and suspecting something.

One was knowing that some one should not continue to show to some one something. She was suspecting
that the one looking at what some one was continuing to show him was saying what would discourage
the one showing something. She was one knowing something and suspecting something. She was one.

She was one and being that one there were very many little ones. She was one and being that
one and there being another one she was one feeling that she would not be continuing to live long.

She was living and in living she was exercising that living is existing. She was living and
she was exhausting continuing being living. She was living and being that one she was living.

She could be one. In being one she was not saying that she was that one the one she was being,
she was not saying anything.

She could be one. She was saying something. She was saying that she liked some things.

She could be one. She was one. She was not saying anything. She could be one. She was not saying
anything.

She could be one. In not saying anything she was not saying anything of that thing. She was
not saying anything of not saying anything.

She could be one. She was one. She was saying something. She was saying that anything is something.
She was saying that something which is something is everything and that everything is not something
and not being something she would be suspecting that in continuing it was not everything. She
was not saying anything of this thing.

She could be one accompanying some one and always accompanying some one she could always have
been listening. In being one who could always have been listening she was one not saying anything.
In being one not saying anything she was one suspecting what she was suspecting. In being one
suspecting she was one deciding and in deciding she was arranging and in arranging she was
continuing that the one she was accompanying was not showing what he might have been showing.

In being one she was one and in being one she was one who accompanying and could be listening
and suspecting and deciding and arranging and continuing and being that one was one living
long enough in being that one to have been one being one expecting enough of not continuing
being living.

There are many living and any of them can be one being that one be one being living and any
of them being one being living can be one saying something and deciding anything.

One and one was one, one and she was a woman would have been a younger one in being a woman
if she had not been an older one in being a woman. In being an older one in being a woman she
was one being a younger one, she was one being an old one, a young one, an older one, a younger
one, she was one being a woman and being that one was one being one. In being one she was being
living and being living she was that one that woman and being that woman she was always all
of that one a young one, an old one, a younger one, an older one. She was that one. She was
that woman. Being that one she was all of that one and being all of that one she was that woman
and being that woman she was all of that one.

There are many being living. One being living and saying something and deciding anything was
an older one and being an older one was remembering enough of having been a younger one and
was remembering enough of going to be an older one. She was one remembering enough.

She was one feeling in remembering enough. She was one talking in remembering enough. She was
one explaining that she was being living and that she was remembering enough.

In being living she was one remembering enough that she had been a younger woman, that she
would be an older woman. In being living she was remembering enough that in being living she
could have what she was having and that she had been remembering enough of what she had been
having, what she was having.

She was one, and being living was enough that thing to be a thing that she could remember enough.
She was living and she could remember enough of having been a younger woman, of being an older
woman, of coming to be an older woman, of coming to be an old woman.

She being one was remembering that she was that one. She remembering that she was that one
was remembering it enough to be one having done what she had done and being that one. She having
done what she had done and being that one she was one living and remembering enough that she
was that one and she was one arranging what she was intending to continue to be arranging and
she was one remembering enough.

That is the end of that and she was one being one. Any being one is one some are describing.
Any one being one is one that one is describing.

Some one being one and being the one being beautifully described as completely beautiful one,
that one being the one being beautifully described and being beautifully described very often
as being beautifully that one, as being a beautiful one, that one being one is one some describe,
that one being one is one that one describes. That one being one and being described beautifully
as a beautiful one is one that that one describes and that one describing that one is describing
everything of that one and describing everything of that one is describing anything of that
one and describing anything of that one is describing that one and describing that one is something
that some can do in beautifully describing that one as beautiful one.

Any one being one is one some are describing. One being one is one some are describing. One
being one is one some are describing and they are describing that one as a pretty one and describing
that one as a pretty one they are describing that one to be a pretty one and describing that
one to be a pretty one and describing that one they are describing that one. In describing
that one they are describing something and describing something they are succeeding in describing
and succeeding in describing they are describing that one a pretty one.

She was one that one, she was one being one having come to be that one in having been one who
had been one and always would be one having come to be that one and having come to be that
one she was being that one and being that one she was describing herself as being one having
been one and having come to be that one and having come to be that one to be one then being
one describing herself as being that one.

She having been one she was remembering that she was not being one having been one. She was
being one being one and being one expressing that being one is expressing everything.

She was one and she was one hoping that being one and expressing conviction she was one remembering
everything.

If she was a pretty one and she was a pretty one if she was a pretty one she was expressing
that being that one she was hoping that she was completing hoping everything.

She was that one. She was hoping that she was completing hoping everything. She was that one
she was expressing that she was being one remembering that she was not being one having been
one. She was that one, she was expressing that hearing that she was that one she was succeeding
in expressing that continuing is succeeding in hoping everything.

She was one and being that one and continuing she had happen what did happen and that was something
that could not happen to every one and that was something that she being one was not continuing
to be accepting. In not continuing to be accepting that thing she was not completing anything
and in being one succeeding in hoping everything that thing was continuing.

She did say what she did say. She did say she was continuing. She did say that she was succeeding
in hoping everything. She did say that she was feeling what she was feeling about any one being
one and hoping everything. She did what she did say. She did do all of that thing.

She was one and being one and being one remembering what she could remember she was remembering
she was being one and being one enough were certain that she being that one she was quite being
one and quite being one she was a pretty one and being a pretty one she was one and was not
being that one in being that one.

In not being that one in being that one she was being that one and being that one and being
the one who did say what she did say she was being the one being that one and being the one
being that one she was not the one being that one in being the one being that one.

She did say what she did say. She did say what she did say when she did say what she did say
and she did say what she did say.

She did say that succeeding in hoping everything is all of that thing and saying this thing
she did say this thing and she did say this thing in saying this thing. She did say what she
did say. She did say that she did say that succeeding in hoping everything is what any one
succeeding in hoping everything is succeeding in. She did say what she did say. She did say
this thing in saying this thing. She did say what she did say. She did say that she was one
being one who was one succeeding in hoping everything. She did say what she did say. She did
say this thing in saying this thing. She did say that any one succeeding in hoping everything
is succeeding in hoping everything. She did say this thing in saying this thing.

A little one who is little enough to be a big one and who is big enough to be a little one
is that one and being that one is one and that one is that one and that one is one and she
is one who does not say what she does not say and saying everything is saying something every
day of not saying what she does not say. This one is one. She is a big one and a little one
and she is one and she says she does not say what she does not say. In saying that she does
not say what she does not say she says everything. She is the one. She is one satisfying one.

In being one satisfying every one that that one is some one some one is satisfying every one
that she is some one. She is that one. She is one and satisfying any one that she is some one.
She is one. She is some one. She is satisfying, she is satisfying every one that she is some one.

She, she could feel in being that one, was feeling in being that some one who was satisfying
every one that she was some one. Feeling was delivering that she was giving everything that
she was getting.

Effecting that she had been learning she completed keeping what she had been getting. She was
and is one restraining what she could see moving. She was one feeling. She is one feeling.

She was continuing and was not burying what was not growing. She is continuing and what is
growing is filling and what is filling is burrowing and what is burrowing is what is moving
and what is moving is showing that moving is not steadying. She is one and she is convincing
any one that she was that one. She is one and satisfying every one that she is some one is
something.

She, she was expecting what she had been saying, she was attacking what she was expecting,
was one satisfying every one of being one, she being one, believing what attacking, what expecting,
what believing, what saying is meaning. She had begun and what she had begun was what was meaning
to be what she, satisfying every one that she was some one, was expressing in believing that
attacking, that believing, that expecting, that giving what she would be receiving was meaning.

She satisfying every one that she was some one in saying what was coming was saying what she
was expecting to be saying in attacking what she was attacking in believing what she was believing
in meaning meaning what was winning in giving what she would be receiving.

She satisfying every one that she was some one was satisfying herself then that she was saying
what expecting to be saying was attacking whom she was attacking in subduing what she was subduing
in believing that she was meaning what she was meaning in giving what she would be receiving
and in giving what she was giving. She satisfying every one that she was some one was satisfying
herself that saying what she was expecting to be saying was subduing what she was expecting
to be subduing, and she being one satisfying every one that she was some one was one feeling
what she was feeling in giving what she would be receiving, and she being one satisfying every
one that she was some one was believing what she was believing in giving what she was giving,
and she being one satisfying every one that she was some one was one being one being one not
having moving what was not moving and being one feeling that what was not moving was being
what it was being and she being one satisfying every one that she was one feeling that she
was not burying what she was not burying, and she being one satisfying every one that she was
some one was being what she was being she being one satisfying every one that she was some one.

She, she was expecting what she was arranging and was arranging to be saying what she was saying,
giving what she would be receiving was feeling what she was receiving in giving what she was
receiving. She was believing what she was giving in receiving, and giving what she was receiving
and receiving what she was giving she was feeling what she was believing. Feeling what she
was believing she was not burying what she was not burying, she was not feeling what she was
not feeling, she was believing what she was believing, she was expecting what she was arranging,
she was satisfying in satisfying and in satisfying she was satisfying every one that she was
some one.

In developing, and she had been developing that she developing was developing, in developing,
and she had been developing in continuing believing and she was believing, in developing she
had developed and having developed she was being what in being is meaning that she is being.
She was satisfying every one that she was some one.

When she came to having been and being and continuing being that one she was one and being
that one was meaning to be that one and was meaning being that one and was satisfying and satisfying
was satisfying every one and satisfying every one was satisfying every one that she was some
one. In having come to be that one and continuing and being that one and not burying anything
in not burying anything and being that one in meaning that thing in meaning being that one
and being one satisfying in meaning, in being that one who was one who was satisfying every
one that she was some one in continuing having come to be that one she was one coming to be
expecting to not bury what she was not burying and in expecting that thing she was not expecting
what she was not expecting, she was not expecting and not expecting she was not expecting and
she was not expecting and not expecting and giving what she was receiving she was not burying
what she was not burying and she was not expecting and she was satisfying every one that she
was some one and satisfying every one that she was some one and being one and meaning and believing
she was satisfying every one that she was some one and she was not expecting and she was giving
what she was receiving and she was being what in being is meaning that she is being and she
is being meaning what she is meaning in being and she is being and being she is satisfying
every one that she is some one.

In coming to be one needing to be burying what she would be burying she was one coming to not
burying what she was uncovering. That being uncovered was being what she would be burying if
she could come to be burying what she was not coming to be burying. She was changing, that
is in satisfying every one that she was some one she was satisfying every one that she was
continuing being some one and in satisfying every one that she was continuing being some one
she was satisfying herself that she was satisfying every one that she was some one. She was
some one, she was satisfying herself in satisfying every one that she was some one. She was
satisfying herself that she was continuing satisfying every one that she was some one. She
was satisfying every one that she was some one.

In arranging, and she was arranging in believing what she was believing, in arranging she was
continuing arranging what she was arranging in believing what she was believing. In arranging
she was continuing in arranging and in continuing in arranging she was believing what she was
believing. She was believing what she was believing. She was arranging in arranging and she
was continuing in arranging and she was believing what she was believing and she was arranging
in arranging. She was satisfying every one that she was some one. She was satisfying herself
that she was satisfying every one that she was some one. She was believing what she was believing.
She was arranging and believing what she was believing. She was believing what she was believing.

If she was one satisfying every one that she was some one, and she was one satisfying every
one that she was one, she was one and she was satisfying every one that she was some one, if
she was that one she would be changing in coming to be the one she was being when she was being
the one she was being in being one who was being that one. In being the one she was being in
being the one she was when she was the one she was she was being one and looking she was feeling
what being that one she was feeling. She was showing all of this thing and showing all of this
thing and showing anything she was showing all of being the one being the one she was and being
that one. In showing all of being that one she was looking and looking she was feeling that
being one showing anything she was being the one having what she was having, and having what
she was having she was one to be continuing, if showing anything is meaning nothing, she was
one to be continuing having what she was having, she being one believing what she was believing
and being one satisfying every one that she was some one.

If any one continuing is coming to be a dead one they could then have come to be what they
had come to be but if they had not come to be a dead one they had not come to be what they
had come to be. She had not come to be a dead one. She had not come to be what she would come
to be.

Each one is one, there are many of them. Each one, every one, all of them, any of them, one
of them, one of them, each one being, every one being, any one is the one and the one is the
one and any history is the meaning of the one not meaning what any meaning is meaning.

One is one. Why is one one. One is one because one being one is sweetly telling that thing
and sweetly telling that thing is sweetly telling that that one being one is meaning, and not
meaning what any meaning is meaning, is being the one sweetly telling that that one is hearing
that that one sweetly telling that, that that one, is one is sweetly telling.

One is one if one were one and sweetly telling something that one would be telling something
sweetly. Any one can be telling that that one is not sweetly telling anything. This one is
one. She is one and is telling that she has been telling delicately telling what she would
have been sweetly telling if she had not been telling what she has been telling. She is telling
what she is telling and telling that she is telling that thing as she would be telling that
thing if she were sweetly telling that thing.

She is one and telling is what she is doing in telling what she is telling, and that telling
is what she is excelling in telling she is telling, in the way she would be telling what she
is telling if she were sweetly telling what she is telling. She is convincing, she is convincing
in telling that she is telling what she is telling in the way she would be telling what she
is telling if she were sweetly telling what she is telling.

She is that one. She is remembering that she is telling what she is telling. She is feeling
that being that one the one she is is fatiguing, she is telling that she soon will be continuing
to be being the one she will be and telling is what any one expecting anything will not then
be expecting. She is one living in remembering that she is being one who could be one continuing
being one remembering that she was telling what she was telling. She was one being one expecting
to be continuing to be resting, having come to be one who can be continuing to be telling what
she is remembering she is telling. She is one remaining where she is remaining in continuing
to be remembering that she is telling what she is telling. She is one remembering that telling
what she has been telling has been continuing to be fatiguing. She is one expecting some one
and the one she is expecting is one telling that she is not needing to be telling what she
is telling, she is just needing to be talking and needing to be talking she is not needing
anything. The one expected is the one not needing anything and being talking is telling that
she has been needing something and has been needing talking. She has been talking and not needing
anything has been getting what she was needing being getting so that when she is talking some
one can be listening, when she is walking some one can be looking, when she is fixing something
some one can be stopping. She is that one. She has returned and is telling that she has come
and telling that she has come she is telling that needing talking is not being needing anything.
She is not telling what she is remembering of having been needing talking as she is remembering
that she has not been needing anything. She is that one.

When any one is gone and is not coming again that one is gone and is not coming again and being
gone and being not coming again some one saying something is saying that not any one is saying
that thing. That is all that is said by that one.

One who is saying what is clearly said, one who is saying anything that is clearly said, that
one is saying that saying something is not at all exhausting and that one clearly saying everything
is not being exhausted and not being exhausted and being clearly having clear things coming
is for that reason just then so clearly that one that any one can see enough to look again
and again. That one is that one. That one is then for that reason that one and one looking
is looking. That one is clearly that one. That one is always so clearly that one that one looking
is looking and looking.

Some one is one. Some one being one is expecting what not having been one she would not have
been expecting and being one she was one completing expecting, she came to be completing expecting.
She came to be that one. She came to be one.

Being one and completing expecting she had what she had and she kept all that and was completing
expecting. She had come to receive what she could keep and she had come to be one and was completing
expecting.

In coming to receive what she could keep, she did keep what she could receive, and she was
one and she was completing expecting. She was one and she was completing expecting and she
had been one having all she was having. In having been one having all she was having she had
been one being that one.

In suffering she was bewildering, and in losing what she had been having she had been suffering,
and in having been suffering and in continuing she was completing having been expecting completing
that thing. She was expecting completing that thing completing continuing she having been one
suffering and continuing. She was one continuing, she was one expecting completing, she was
one expecting to be completing.

In being one she could be bewildering and she was one continuing and expecting completing.
In suffering she was bewildering and she was one continuing and she was one expecting to be
completing and being one. In continuing she could be bewildering and she was one expecting
completing being that one and she was one expecting completing and she was one having all she
was having and she was one having expecting completing in that thing.

In being that one and she had come to be that one and she was having what she was having and
she was expecting completing, in being that one she was one, and being one, and deciding she
was one having what she was having, and she was expecting completing, and she was having receiving
that she was expecting completing and being continuing in deciding continuing bewildering in
having been losing and in having what she was having. She had come to continuing coming to
being that one, and being that one she was expecting completing, and having what she was having
and continuing in deciding being continuing in bewildering in having what she was having. She
was deciding that she was continuing and having what she was having and deciding and continuing
bewildering and having lost what she had lost. She was continuing, she was having what she
was having, she was deciding to be continuing and having what she was having and having lost
what she had lost. She was deciding to be continuing and she was bewildering and deciding to
be continuing and she was having what she was having.

She did say that she was that one and was deciding to be expecting to be that one. She was
continuing and was expecting to be that one and she was that one and she did say that she was
that one.

When she continued saying that she was that one she was having what she was having and was
continuing expecting to be that one and she was not denying that being one having lost what
she had lost she was bewildering in being one expecting to be that one. In expecting to be
that one she did say that she was that one and that she deciding was completely deciding that
she was continuing being that one.

She might have arranged that thing arranged deciding to be that one if she had not been one
being that one and having what she was having and being one deciding to be expecting that she
was continuing being that one.

She did decide that she was expecting continuing being that one, she did have what she did
have, she did decide to continue deciding to be that one, she did not arrange to be that one,
she did not decide to arrange to be that one, she did not decide to expect to be that one,
she did have what she did have, she did continue to be that one, she did lose what she had
lost and she did decide to continue to be that one. She did not ask what she did not ask, she
did decide, and not asking what she did not ask and having what she did have she did decide
to continue to be that one. In not asking what she did not ask she did not refuse what she
did not refuse and in not refusing what she did not refuse she did decide to continue to decide
what she did decide in continuing to be that one. She did decide to continue to be expecting
to be that one and continuing to be that one she did say that she was expecting to be continuing
being that one. Having what she had she was not arranging to decide what in deciding to be
continuing expecting to be that one she was continuing to decide.

If any one needing loving is being one and being loving could be doing what that one is doing
then that one giving loving is giving what that one the one loving could be giving if that
one were giving what that one is giving. Such a one is one. Any one who is such a one is such
a one.

One who is one and is not such a one is one who is one is one who giving and loving and needing
is giving and loving and needing and could not have been giving without loving and could not
have been loving without needing and could not have been needing without giving and could not
have been giving and loving and needing without having been giving and needing and loving.
One who is loving and giving and needing is one completely giving and completely loving and
completing needing.

That one is one. That one the one who is one is one. That one the one who is the one that is
that one is one, is the one who is that one.

One who is one giving is one who would be one giving if that one were one who was loving. That
one is one being certain that she being one who is giving would be one giving if she were one
who was loving. She being one is certain that she could be one needing. She is one giving,
she could be certain that she could be one needing. She being one being giving might be believing
that she could be one being loving. She was that one. She was one giving, she was one who could
be one continuing, she was one who might be loving, she was one expecting needing. She was one.

If she had been continuing being a young one she would have been one having what she was having.
She was continuing being a young one. In having what she was having she was one not loving.
She was giving what she was giving, she was continuing being a young one.

She was having what she was having, she was giving what she was giving, she could be loving
in loving, she could be needing in needing, she could be giving in giving, she could be having
in having, she could be continuing being a young one.

Continuing being a young one is something if being a young one is anything and being a young
one is something if continuing being a young one is anything. Continuing being a young one
is something.

One who was a young one and was continuing being a young one was one who being a young one
was being that one and continuing being a young one was being that one and being that one and
being a young one that one was one and anything is something and that one is a young one and
that one continuing is a young one and something is something.

Any one having been listening and having been gently not being delicately listening that one
is one expressing something of succeeding in living. One expressing something of succeeding
in living is such a one.

She is such a one and she is one continuing when continuing is not everything and when not
continuing is not anything. She is such a one and she is living and she is expressing something
of succeeding in living.

She came and there were others and they all of them lost something and she expressed something
of succeeding in living. She came and was one continuing to coming to being one who was one
gently not delicately listening. She was one gently doing what she was doing not delicately
listening. She was filling more of expressing something of succeeding in living.

She did resist something and that was not anything and she did resist that thing and she was
not expressing not quite expressing that she was continuing resisting what she was resisting.
She was continuing and could be expressing that what she was resisting was not anything and
she would then be expressing that had she been resisting she would have been resisting what
she had been resisting and she had been resisting what she had been resisting. She was expressing
something of succeeding in living. She was continuing. She was filling being expressing something
of succeeding in living.

She was not delicately listening. She was gently not delicately listening. She was continuing
to be hearing what she was hearing. She had been hearing she was hearing something of some
succeeding in living. She was gently not delicately listening.

One who was clearly and happily agreeing that she was amiably feeling in wanting to be winning
was one resisting what she was resisting was deciding was not opposing. She was happily and
clearly feeling that she was explaining that she was having in amiable feeling a way of being
of amiable feeling and she was happily and clearly deciding and deciding she was correcting
and correcting she was convincing and convincing she was not regretting. She was happily and
clearly being. She was happily and clearly feeling. She was one who was clearly the one amiably
feeling. She was one who was happily the one amiably feeling. She was clearly one who was an
amiable one. She was happily one who was an amiable one. She was happily and clearly the one
who clearly was amiably one. She was clearly and happily the one who happily was amiably one.
One who was clearly, one who was happily amiably one was happily, was clearly an amiable one,
the amiable clearly, happily, clearly amiable one. One who was one was one clearly. One who
was one was one happily. One who was one was one amiably. One who was the one was an amiable one.

However it came to be that so very many were living it did come to be that some of them continuing
were living. Many of them were living, and continuing, some of them came together and continued
that way then. One of them was one who if she had been an amiable one would have been continuing
being an amiable one and she was continuing and was being an amiable one and she had been one
being an amiable one. She was not needing that thing needing being an amiable one. Not any
of them were needing that thing needing being amiable ones. All of them who were being together
then were continuing and she was the one who was one of them and she was continuing. She was
one. She could be, she was, she would be an amiable one.

She was one. She was that one. She was continuing. She was living. She was being. She was meaning.
She was remaining. She was counting. She was planning. She was having. She was pleasing. She
was giving. She was keeping. She was feeling. She was worrying. She was continuing.

She was not needing to be wearing what she was not giving and getting. She was not needing
to be changing what she had arranged to be changing. She was feeling in having what she was
deciding to be having. She did have children. She did have a married living. She did have many
living and living she was living with many and many were living. She was continuing to be counting
what she was arranging. She was having what she would be doing. She was quieting what she could
be feeling. She was resting what she had been feeling. She was continuing regretting what she
could have been saying. She was filling everything she was arranging to be filling when she
was counting.

She did have what she was being. She did give what she was offering. She did feel what she
was filling. She did please in being occupying. She did do what was continuing. She did satisfy
in having children. She did arrange in doing counting. She did turn in being wounding. She
did consider in being forgiving. She did thank in receiving attention. She did distribute in
being enjoying. She did continue in being yielding. She did remain in being sweetening. She
did resist in being accepting. She did enjoy in being satisfying. She did receive in having
marrying. She did continue in being affectionate in having, in giving, in receiving, in marrying,
in resisting in spoiling in expecting in attending in deploring in obeying in enjoying her
children. She did continue in expecting weakening. She did continue in hoping strengthening.
She did continue in worrying eating. She did continue in rounding fading. She did continue
in attending living. She did continue in enjoying feeling not being denying. She did continue
in having been arranging to be counting worrying. She did continue in being affectionate in
weakening. She did continue pleasing in declining. She did continue receiving what she would
be having. She did continue having what was being. She did continue being what all of them
were being who were living. She did continue being as she was being living. She did say all
of enough of that thing. She did say what she said of being living. She did feel what she felt
of continuing. She was what she had been in being. She was what she was and she was all there
was and that was all of that one. She was continuing in arriving where she would be fading.
She was weakening in aging where she would be ceasing.

She was giving what she had for giving. She was feeling what she had in being. She was receiving
what she used in living. She was paying in every day arranging.

She was filling what was not needing emptying. She was deciding what would not have been changing.
She was keeping what was not gathering. She was renewing what was continuing.

She was being and she was living. She was having what was enjoying. She was doing what was
collecting. She was giving what was continuing. She was receiving what was gathering. She was
hearing what was sounding. She was losing what was fading. She was saying which was enjoying
and conditioning. She was accepting which was pleasing. She was resenting which was resisting.
She was suffering which was accusing. She was worrying which was counting. She was reflecting
which was grieving. She was being which was accepting. She was laughing which was completing.

If there were many and there are many, if there were many then some of them would be satisfying
any one and some of them are not satisfying any one and some of them are satisfying any one.
And any one who is satisfied by some of them is satisfied because they are satisfactory the
ones that satisfy them.

One to be satisfying must be satisfying. One is satisfying. That one being satisfying and not
deceiving and not beguiling and not resisting only detaining is one completing being that one
being satisfying. That one being one and being satisfying is being the one being completely
satisfying. Completing satisfaction is completely being that one.

There are some being living, there are those and those all of them are doing what they are
doing. One of them is one being an old one and having come then to be receiving worrying about
coming to be a sick one. She has been one who has come to something.

She and she herself had come to something and was succeeding in having had what she had given
to be needing to be receiving what she was receiving, she was not asking what any one could
be answering she was asking that she should continue to give what she gave and get what she got.

If she were quietly doing what she was doing she would be receiving what she was receiving
but she would not be having what she was having and she would not have been asking what she
had been asking.

She did give every one she was needing what she was needing to give to them. She was feeling
what she came to be feeling when she came to have what she was having.

She came to want to be enjoying what she was feeling in doing what she was doing. She came
to feel that she was having what she was having and she might be doing what she was doing.

She was feeling what she was feeling in loving what she was loving in having what she was having.
She came to feel that she was feeling what she was feeling in needing to be having what she
was having. She came to feel that she was feeling that she was having what she was having and
that she might be doing what she was doing in feeling what she was feeling.

When she was succeeding she was succeeding in living and when she was succeeding in living
she was feeling what she was feeling and she was doing what she was doing. She was feeling
what she was feeling and she was doing what she was doing.

Succeeding in living she was placing what she was placing and helping what she was helping
and following what she was following and doing what she was doing and feeling what she was feeling.

She was continuing in expecting to be placing what she was placing. She was continuing in expecting
to have been having what she had been having.

She was coming to continuing fearing what she could be fearing. She was continuing having been
feeling what she had been feeling.

She had been asking what she had been asking. She was continuing to be receiving what she had
been asking. She was willing to be changing what she was seeing when she was looking. She was
willing to be seeing what she was seeing when she was looking. She was willing to be having
what she was asking. She was needing to be doing what she was doing in asking what she was
asking in receiving what she was receiving. She was willing to be feeling what she was feeling.
She was coming to be doing what she was not needing to be doing to be having what she was having.

To direct everything so that what comes is coming is doing what one knowing what everything
is and being directing can be doing. Succeeding in directing is something.

One who is one and is knowing what everything is could be directing and she is directing that
is she is reasoning and being reasonably understanding what everything is can be directing
so that what comes is coming. She being that one is rightly judging everything. She being that
one and saying that to be always right she must be wrong quite often, she being that one and
always being correct in judging and complete in knowing what everything is and reasonable in
telling and firm in directing she is one and what comes is coming. She is one and knowing what
everything is and being one clearly expressing that thing and firmly directing she is one curing
what would need curing if she were not being the one directing that which she is directing
which is certainly all of the two of them. She is the one knowing all of what everything is
and directing what she is directing, and she is that one of the two of them and what comes
is coming and she is directing, and she is correcting what is to be coming and she is knowing
what everything is and reasonably telling and quite curing what might be needing curing if
curing were needing to be continuing. She is quite that one. She is a lovely one. She is a
directing one. She is a one knowing what everything is.

There are some who are succeeding in placing what they are placing, there are some who are
marshalling all of what they are placing. There is one and she is directing all she is directing
and she is succeeding in being and any of that being everything she is everything in failing.

She is that one. She had seven and she arranged that all of them would be all of them and that
she was placing what she was placing.

She was sitting and sitting was not everything. She was sitting and she would be placing what
she was placing when all of them had been all of them.

All of them were all of them. All of them had been all of them. They were coming all of them
were coming, some of them were coming that all of them were not all of them. All of them were
not coming. All of them were all of them.

She was sitting and when she was not leaving she was not remembering everything. When she did
remember everything she was sitting and keeping what she had had when she was sitting.

In succeeding in continuing she had been succeeding in living and all of them were all of them
and she was placing what she was placing and she was not coming to what she was coming and
all of them were not coming to be all of them and they were then what they were then when not
any of them were all of them and some of them might have been all of them.

She was one and she had what she had when she was coming to having been placing what she would
have been placing if all of them being all of them all of them had been all and some of them
had been all of them.

In not having what she was having and sitting she was receiving what she would be having if
she had been having what she was having in placing what she was placing.

She placing what she was placing and all of them being all of them she sitting was not standing
and not standing she was receiving what she would be receiving in placing what she was placing,
all of them being all of them. She was placing what she was placing. She was receiving what
she would be receiving. In remembering what she was remembering she was receiving what she
would be receiving.

She could be intending. She was placing what she was placing. She was saying what she was saying
when she was sitting.

She was intending that all of them were all of them. Some of them were intending that all of
them were all of them.

She could be intending. She had been, she was intending that all of them were all of them.
She was continuing, she could be intending.

All of them could be all of them and they were all of them and she was continuing and she could
be intending. She could be intending. She was intending that all of them were all of them and
some of them were intending that all of them were all of them. Some were hoping to be intending
that all of them were some of them. Some were intending that some of them were enough of them.
They all could be intending. All of them were all of them.

She was placing what she was placing. In placing what she was placing she was showing what
she was having. In showing what she was having she was placing all of them so that all of them
were all of them. In placing all of them so that all of them were all of them she was using
what she was having. In using what she was having she was showing that all of them were all
of them. She was placing what she was placing.

She was saying what she was saying when she was sitting. She was sitting. She was saying what
she was saying when she was sitting. In sitting and saying what she was saying when she was
sitting she was intending to be saying that she was saying what she was saying. She was sitting
and all of them were all of them.

Anything being together and there being pieces that are being used and all the pieces are being
used and all of them had placed on them what was placed for them and they being where they
had been again and again, all of them being there then and they could be there and nothing
was anything and there was there not anything she was placing what she was placing and all
of them were all of them and that was too much of that thing in all of them having been continuing
and all of them not coming to use anything, and she was placing what she was placing and all
of them all of them being all of them all of them were coming to intending and all of them
coming to intending she was sitting and sitting was that thing. All of them intending all of
them a piece being on all of them, a piece being on all of them some of them, anything being
together all of them were all of them. All of them were all of them. She was placing what she
was placing. All of them were all of them.

She sitting and sitting being that thing, she sitting and all of them being all of them and
she having not been completing that thing completing sitting she was not completing that something
would not be together if a piece was on each one of them. All of them were all of them. They
were losing in using what they were using in a piece not being on each one of them. They were
not losing in all of them coming to be intending. They were losing in coming and they were
coming to be intending. She did sit and she did not do that thing, she did place what she placed
and she did not do that thing. She was sitting.

If she had the way of sitting and she did not have a way of sitting she would keep in being
what she did have in sitting. She did not have a way of sitting. In sitting she did have in
being what she was not losing and not losing she did not give anything of sitting. She did
not give anything of sitting. She did not have a way of sitting.

She did not have a way of sitting. She was not being in continuing sitting. She did not lose
being sitting. She did not lose sitting. She did not keep in sitting. She had sitting. She
was having sitting. In having sitting she did change what she did not change in placing what
she was not placing. In continuing she did not change when she was remaining in having been
moving being sitting. In having been sitting she was not sitting. She was not sitting in the
way of sitting. She was sitting in having been continuing remaining in having moved in sitting.
She was not being in not sitting. She was not being sitting. She was not being, not sitting,
sitting. She was intending in sitting, in saying what she could be saying.

A little one who could not push did push and pushing was telling that pushing was not succeeding.
A little one pushing is a little one pushing.

She could tell all about pushing. She could tell and she did tell all about not pushing. She
did tell and she could tell that having had what she had had she would have what she would
have, and she did have what she did have and she did tell what she did tell.

Some are some. Some being some and one telling them that that one is one not telling what she
might be telling if she had been listening when she was listening they are hearing that she
is not telling what she is not telling and all of them she and they are all continuing in friendly
living. She is telling that hearing is something. She is telling that listening is something.
She is telling that telling is something. She is telling that she is hearing, that she is not
listening, that she is not telling.

In living and in repeating she was determining in being exciting. In being exciting she was
not living and in living she was not continuing and she was being the one conveying being exciting.

She did feel that which feeling she did have as being. She did begin what she was finishing
and she did not continue hearing when she was listening.

In having been feeling she was saying that she had been giving up what she could be needing
and in giving it up she had been doing without it. She was saying that she had been feeling
in being living, and being living and continuing she was being not having given up everything.

In being married and feeling she was married and was conveying that thing that she was continuing.
In having children and she had two children she was feeling what she feeling. She was feeling
what she was feeling. She was feeling something. She was saying what she was saying. She was
saying what she was feeling. She was saying that she could determine not coming to be exciting.
She was saying that she could say what had meaning.

In having children and arranging she was conveying that arranging can be something and that
she was not arranging what would be arranged.

She had two children. She was feeling what she was feeling. She felt that she had had two children
and having two children one of them was one and the other one was the other one.

She had them and she needed being living to be feeling what she was feeling in having them.
She needed being living and being living she was not needing what she was needing in conveying
being exciting and having the one child and the other child.

One was one and was like that one, was one being that one and being completely like that one
in being one. She had that thing having that one and having that one she was needing being
living to be feeling what she was feeling in that one being that one and being living.

The other one was that one and being that one was being any one being living and winning intending
some winning of continuing being one. That one was having intending some continuing. She had
that one and having that one was one saying what she was saying about having that one, about
that one. And saying what she was saying about having that one, about that one, she said all
she said about having that one, about that one, and saying all she said about having that one,
about that one, she was one conveying intending in not saying, in not feeling, in saying, in
needing all she was saying in feeling, in remembering in needing what she could be saying in
having that one, of that one.

She was needing being one living to be feeling what she was feeling in having the one, in having
the other one.

In feeling what she was feeling in having the one, and she had the one, she was not compelling
what she was saying in telling that if she was living she was living. She had him and feeling
what she was feeling she was telling that she was not compelling being one being living, and
being living she could be feeling what she was feeling in having the one who was that one one
being one she had.

Like that very much like that and like that she did what beginning and ending she was continuing
not compelling saying in saying what she said and feeling what she felt in feeling what if
she were feeling she would have to be living. She was feeling and coming in not continuing
she was in beginning and ending continuing and she was saying what she was saying in feeling
what she was feeling if she was feeling what to be feeling she would have to be one being living.
She was not compelling saying, she was not compelling not continuing, she was beginning and
ending in continuing, she was saying what she was feeling and to be feeling what she was feeling
she was to be being living and being living was not compelling living being continuing and
she beginning and ending was continuing and not compelling saying, and not compelling continuing.

She was continuing. She was saying in beginning and ending she was continuing. She was continuing.
She had one. In continuing she was saying that anything, anything that was beginning and ending
was like continuing. She was saying that beginning and ending was not like continuing she being
living and having one and not compelling saying. That one, and she was one, that one was having
been saying what feeling was enlivening, feeling beginning and ending and not compelling having
been continuing.

She, and she had one he, she and he saying what they were saying, and they were saying what
they were saying were repeating what they were feeling beginning and ending being continuing
and it was continuing and they were feeling and saying they were saying what was like what
they were saying. They were saying what was like what they were saying. She had him, he was
like what he was feeling, she was like what she was feeling, he was saying what was like what
he was saying, she was saying what was like what she was saying, she was feeling, he was feeling.

She had one. He was one. They were feeling. They were saying. She was feeling and was not compelling
saying. She was saying and not compelling feeling. He was saying and was not compelling feeling.
He was feeling and not compelling saying. He was feeling. He was saying. He was like what he
was. He was saying.

She had another one. Having another one she was like that one like one having that other one.
She had not been like that one like the one having another one. She had that other one. She
was saying. She was saying and was not compelling feeling.

She went on being one and went on being the one being so like that one that feeling, that saying,
that being that one and being that one she was saying, she was feeling, she was saying that
she was not compelling saying, she was feeling that she was not compelling feeling. She had
feeling vivid feeling she had feeling like that one. She had saying much saying all saying
like that one.

She had feeling vivid feeling. She had saying, much saying.

All, and very much is all. All is what very much is and very much that is all is so decisively
all that very much is so very much that it is everything and everything being all and all being
all how wonderfully beautifully sweetly clearly all can be everything.

All is all. All being all and being all, always all that is all being competely all if a little
thing is a little thing and a little thing can be a little thing a little thing is so decisively
expressing all that expressing is expressing that completely all is being all and always all
being all all is everything.

To begin what is not begun is not to begin everything. What is all is deciding that having
been expressed it is that and being that why should not that have what it has and it certainly
has what it has, it naturally has what it has because it is what it is and it is everything
and everything is all. It is not begun and that is not puzzling in feeling. It is not begun
and that is not mentioned in loving. It is not begun and that is completely expressed in telling.
It is not begun and that is why each one and there is only one is decisively adjusting all
that is interesting. One, how can that one not be that one when that one being that one is
that one. That one that very one, that one like that one is not enough like that one so any
one not that one can remember all of that one. That one enough of that one is all compelling.
That one all of that one is all there can be of remembering. That one, that one and only that
one and quite that one and not translating, that one quite that one and never translating,
that one always that one and not having begun and that one and that one who is that one, all,
everything, why not certain that only that one that that one. Being certain is not anything.
Being begun is not being begun. Being the one the decisively adjusting, the completely not
translating, the not having been begun one, being the one, that one how that one how very that
one is everything. All is everything.

That is the way when that way is a way that is the way that way is the way.

There can be some. There can be some quite often. There can be a great many quite often. There
can be very many very often.

There can be one who having lost her husband and having four children and having a great deal
of money and saving it for the children and spending it for the children can not do what children
can do, there can be one who continuing living and looking as if she were being living is being
living and is continuing being living.

She is in a way not an old one being quite an old one and she is in a way not an old one as
she has had taken a photograph of herself her daughter and her daughter's daughter and in the
picture is also her mother. There are four generations of them. She in a way being an old one
is not an old one and that is not startling not at all startling she having four children and
being rich and having lost her husband and having been lonesome and having been saving for
her children and having been spending because she was feeling something of what she was being
feeling.

She had lost her husband. She knew that. She had four children. She knew that of all four of them.

In meeting and she was always meeting what she was having in meeting she said that what she
asked she would have had, having what she had and she could have all she had and she knew all
she knew knowing all the children she had and knowing that she had the four.

She did feel that she had given what she had given and that having given all she had given
in giving what she had given all was not what it might have been if her children could have
come to be what they came to be and her husband had gone on living to die before she died so
that she would be living and not dying.

That was what was and she had grand-children. She had been being living and being married and
buying what she was buying and feeling in having what she was having.

Being married and having children, having all four of them and there were not any more of them,
she was saying what she was saying in all of them moving to where they were moving. Some one
living with them was knowing all all of them were knowing. Some one staying with them was arranging
not to be telling what any one of them was not telling. They moved and having moved and having
built what they built and having feeling in being living as they had feeling in being living
she was having all she was having when she was giving what she was giving and continuing buying
what she was continuing buying in arranging what had come to be an arranged thing.

She did do all of it and doing all of it she was married and having two of her children coming
to marrying if marrying was all of something. Marrying was all of something and being married
and the two children came to marry, being married was not all of something. She did say all
she would say she had said.

Having what she was having and being married and there being four children she was continuing
buying what, that being arranged which was arranged, she was buying. She was married. She was
giving what she was giving in there being all in the house that there was in the house. She
had what she was having.

She did say all she came to believe. She did come to believe all she did say. The natural way
of ending being dying she did not come to believe that she would be feeling that dying was
existing. In not believing everything she was having all she could be needing.

She knew that ending being existing and dying being existing those who were not dead were left
and being left they felt what they felt and they said what they said.

She said that she being left felt what she felt and said what she said. She said that having
what she had she knew what she knew and knowing what she knew she gave what she gave and giving
what she gave she was not expecting what she was not expecting in continuing what she was continuing
and continuing what she was continuing she did have what she could have in she being the one
she was being and having the children all four that she was having and having lost the husband
the husband who died and she had been a wife who was living.

In keeping what she was keeping she was not keeping all she was keeping as she was giving something
that she was giving. She was liking what she was liking and saying what she was saying and
asking everything she was asking and supplying all she was supplying.

She said and did that which in needing all she could have she would say and do. She repeated
that in liking what she had been liking she had, in giving what she had been giving, been having
what she had. She was not repeating in feeling. She was not repeating in dying. She was not
repeating in not dying. She was repeating in giving. She was repeating in asking everything.
She was repeating in being living.

In being living she was introducing something she was introducing what she was asking. In introducing
what she was asking she said what she said. She said what she said and when she said what she
said she left what she left when she had what she had and she gave what she gave when she left
what she left.

She said that she did not leave anything and saying that she attended to what she attended.
Attending to what she was attending she said all she said. She did not say that she felt anything
that she was not asking. She did not say that she liked more than she liked. She said that
what she saw was what was left when she gave what she gave. She said that she said what she
said. She said that she had said what she said. She said what she saw and she saw what there
was when she had what she had.

She was not the one who did come to have what she had. If she had come to have what she had
she would have lived when she lived and she would ave died when she had had what she had had.
She was not the one who was all in having what she had and she did not have what she had having
four children and each of them being the one of the four of them that each one was and her
husband being succeeding and being living and she being living so that he was dead before she
was dying, she was not the one having what she had. She was the one saying what she saw and
she was seeing what she had.

She was not leaving being that one in being one continuing and she did not leave being that
one because she was seeing what she had and she was saying what she saw. She was not leaving
being that one.

It could be that she was that one. It could quite be that she was that one. It was that she
was that one.

She said what she saw and she saw what she had and she said what she said and she had what she had.

If she saw what she had and she said what she saw she had being living and a husband and children
and succeeding in not having been using in feeling that she had not died and left her husband
living with the four who were being living and being living being existing. She did say that
she could be using all that she could say in saying what she saw and seeing what she had. She
did say that she could not be using what she did say in seeing what she had. She did say that
having what she had she did not use what she would use if she saw what she had when she said
what she saw.

All that there is of what there is when there is what there is is that which in the beginning
and the middle and the ending is coming and going and having and expecting. All that there
is of what there is is that all that is that. Four or five or six and there are six and there
are five and there are four and five and six all that there are are then all there and being
all there how can they not be there when they are there and they are all there when they are
there, when they are all there. They are, they are there.

One and if not why not one and if one why not the one who is one. The one who is one is there
when she is there.

Thanking that one is not all of everything. Not thanking that one is not all of everything.
Thanking can be something.

If saying that thanking is existing is convincing then saying that thanking is existing is
saying that thanking is thanking.

If she was beautiful one day she was beautiful that day because she was beautiful that day.

She was doing more than she intended and she liked it. She did more than she intended and she
liked it.

To begin then.

All one day she was beautiful. She was beautiful that day. Any day is a day.

Having what in the beginning is all of ending is being what in being living is existing. Any
one not liking is intending is not intending. Any one liking, any one not liking is not intending,
is intending.

Any one and any one, one and one and two, and one and one and one, and one and many, and one
and some, and one and any one, and any one and any one, any one and any one is one and one
is one and one is some one and some one is some one, any one and one and one and one, any one
is that one and that one is that one and any one and one, and one and one, any one is the one
and the one who is the one is that one. The one who is the one who is that one, any one and
any one is one, one is one, one is that one, and any one, any one is one and one is one, and
one and one, and one and one and one and one.

G.M.P.

He did not and all of them did not and any of them would see that a color which was quite attractive
could be a color that is very attractive and some of them if they liked it would do it again
would see the color again that they had seen and one of them doing very well what he was doing
was not killed and he was hurt enough so that he did not walk when he was carried.

A thing that is very well done and would be pleasing to some is done by one who doing what
that one is doing is giving what that one is giving and that one giving what that one is giving
is selecting what would be young if the parts that can be seen were not parts that were old
when a part that is not old is young and might not be young if all the parts were young and
should not be young if some one who is not pleased is not pleased. Quite likely every one who
is not pleased can be pleased when what has been selected has been selected to be old and to
be young. Certainly enough pleasing is affecting what is selected to be old and to be young.
Pleasing and not entirely pleasing is when all that is blue is green blue and not a color that
is different from green and blue. A pleasant thing is what being selected is not selected when
something is old and when something is young, a pleasant thing is not a pleasant thing when
something has been selected which is not what that one selecting did not like.

All of it, all of selecting, all of a pleasant thing is what has been a bigger thing than a
piece of it taken away from it and not forgotten. A pleasant thing and some one selecting is
selecting something, a pleasant thing and many of them can be found when everything is found
that is pleasant and when everything that is selected is selected again.

It is a grief to almost any one that all that is being done and has been done is what has been
done and is being done. It is a grief to almost any one to see every one, to meet every one,
to forget every one, to tell some everything is something. It is a happiness that what is is
being done and has been done and will be done. It is exciting to every one that what has been
done has been done and what is being done is being done. It is a reflection to any one that
what has been done has been done and what is done is being done. It is a determination in every
one that everything is done that is done and that everything has been done that has been done.
It is annoying to every one that everything that has been done has been done and everything
that is done is done. It is a regret to every one that everything that is done is done and
that everything that has been done has been done.

If all who were coming were going and coming it would be certain that all had commenced something.
He says that he has begun not to go. He says that he can begin to come and begin to go. He
says that he came very slowly and is going gradually and that he is not coming, he says he
is going, he says that he has just been told all that he was not told when he was told that
he was coming in the way that he was coming and would be going in any way that he would be
going. He says that he has heard all that he can hear and that he will hear all that he is
going to hear and he says that there is a way to come and a way to hear what he will hear.
He is not going. He says he is going. He is not coming. He says he is coming. He has come and
he has gone. Hopefully he knows all he hears. Desperately he hears what he knows. Quietly he
repeats what he will hear. He never asks whether he is going or coming. He always hears that
he is coming, he always hears that he is going. He once heard that he had had what he had and
he had what he had and he would have what he had and that he might have what he did have and
he said that that was what he was hearing when he heard what was said and he knew what he had
and he said that he heard what he heard and that he was coming and he said he knew he had been
going. He heard all who spoke when he was hearing all he knew. This is Walter.

If he were happy there he would be happier there than any where. If he were succeeding there
he would be certain to be recognised as having done more than he would have done if he had
not succeeded there. He learnt what he learnt and he lost what he lost when he knew that he
had come to know that he was seeing and had been seeing what he had been learning.

If in walking and in coming late and hurrying and going then to send something and being then
taking what he was having and being politely mentioning that being polite is something and
not everything, if in saying that evidently what he was saying was what evidently was what
he was saying, if in having been suffering and having been creating and having been explaining
and having been selling and having been buying, if in having been using and having been creating
and having been evidently destroying and having been evidently understanding, if in having
been seeing and having been talking and having been staying and having been needing all he
was needing, if in having been creating and having been suffering and having been hurrying
and having been expecting, if in having been creating and not having been destroying and having
been succeeding and not having been disappointing one, some are understanding when all are
agreeing, is expressing that going on is changing and he is going on and all are remembering
that going on and changing is going on. He is expressing and he is expressing, he is expressing.

If telling each one that thing is telling each one everything, and telling each one everything
is telling each one something, if telling each one something is discovering that thing then
creating anything is expressing that thing.

Fortune and succeeding and coming again often is all of something and that thing is creating
repeating, and creating something is gaining recognition, and gaining something is expecting
some one, and expecting some one is pleasing one who is succeeding.

If in beginning each one is disturbing and if in disturbing each one is arranging and if in
arranging each one is attending and if in attending each one is admiring and if in admiring
each one is advising and if in advising each one is urging and if in urging each one is helping
and if in helping each one is progressing and if in progressing each one is intending and if
in intending each one is desiring and if in desiring each one is expecting and if in expecting
each one is discussing then all of them will be denying and all of them will be remembering
what had been happening and all of them will have meaning in creating being existing.

Larger than everything is larger. Larger and larger and not so strange, larger and strange
and stranger, these are coming and have come and they are not going. Large and strange, and
large and large, and strange and stranger, and strange and large, and strange, and large, and
strange and stranger, and large and larger, these are what has come and is coming and is staying
and is meaning that anything is pleasant and that anything is unpleasant. That is enough. Always
having done what is not making all the difference between what has been done and is being done
is what has been done and what has not been done. What has been done is what is making the
difference that is meaning what it is meaning if it were making all the difference that what
has been done has not been making.

In being each one moving a little in holding up and dropping what was not resting each one
is being that one who has shown what he will do in doing what he has done to be not the one
who is watching while waiting. Each one is not watching while waiting. Any one coming to move
a little and deranging what he is holding is not needing to be distracting any attention which
is then not existing. So it can have been when all of them were not then doing all that was
known. All that could be known was what all of them said they knew and they did know what they
knew and they said all that they could say in saying all that they did say. They were not then
all who were including all of enough and they were all then including everything and they were
all then not deciding that any one who was coming was not coming. The one stopped motioning
the one who was not motioning, the one stopped motioning, the one who was motioning, the one
stopped motioning the one who would be, was and had been motioning, the one motioned and stopped
motioning, the one had motioned and was motioning, the one stopped motioning and was and would
be motioning.

Meeting they went all of them with the one with whom they went and they stayed and were talking,
they stayed and all who stayed and were talking and those who stayed and were not talking they
all stayed when they stayed.

They respected when they stayed all they said and they stayed and they said all they said.
They said that they respected what they said while they stayed and they stayed. They stayed
and they said what they respected and what they said.

They did not stay to stay they stayed and they said they respected what they said. They did
what they said they respected and they said they respected what they respected. That was not
enough and they said it was enough and that it was not enough. They said they stayed and they
said that they respected all they respected and they respected all they said.

They stayed when they stayed. They all stayed when they stayed. They all respected what they
said when they said what they said. They all said what they said. They all stayed.

In coming they said that they had not chosen. They were not choosing in coming and in staying,
they were knowing what they were saying.

He who was not saying that he was coming was leading when he was staying and he was staying
when he was saying all he was knowing.

They were staying. One was staying and had been coming and was coming and was staying. He was
saying what he was saying and he was knowing that he was saying all he was saying.

They were staying when they were staying and they were coming when they were coming. They were
going when they were going. They were coming and staying. They were going.

He who was saying what he was saying and was going while he was going was staying and while
he was staying he was saying what he was knowing. He was saying all he was knowing he was saying.
He was staying.

They were staying. They were dividing all their staying with saying all they were saying. They
were all staying. They were dividing all their staying with saying what they were knowing.
They were dividing all their staying with explaining what they were saying. They were all staying.
They were all saying that they were knowing what they were saying.

They were intending to be staying, they were staying. They were intending dividing being staying
with saying what they were knowing they were saying. They were dividing being staying with
saying what they were knowing they were saying.

They were staying. They were expressing being staying. They were expressing saying what they
were knowing they were saying. They were expressing intending to be saying what they were knowing
they were saying.

He was one saying what he was saying and intending to be saying what he was knowing he was
saying. He was one intending to be staying. He was one dividing being staying with saying what
he was saying. He was one intending to be saying what he was knowing he was saying. He was
one expressing being saying what he was knowing he was saying.

They were particularly accepting staying. They were dividing staying with continuing choosing.
They were contemplating intelligent developing. They were arranging determining allowing feeling.
They were staying. They were saying what they were saying. They were particularly accepting
staying.

In particularly accepting staying they were not organising dividing staying with saying what
they were knowing they were saying. They were not organising staying. They were staying.

He was who a tall enough one to be a young enough one was one who was staying when he had come
and was come and was not staying and not staying did not leave what he had when he had stayed
where he had stayed. He did not stay in saying what he said as he said what he knew he would
say and he said that staying was a thing he was dividing and dividing it he was particularly
accepting what he was saying. He was leading in being this one and he was accepting then coming
to be the one to be leading himself to all of everything of this thing.

He was the one and so he did the thing he did something of particularly accepting staying.
He was the one doing something of everything of this thing.

In staying together in staying all who were staying were not all staying and all who were staying
were all staying and all staying staying was occupying dividing saying what they were knowing
they were saying with doing what they were doing in staying as they were staying in staying
where they had been staying. He did all this and he was the one who could and did do all this.
He was the one who had done this and he was the one who could do this which he would have done
and he did do what he could have done if he had done all the staying he did. He was all that
and staying and he was not remaining and in remaining he was not dividing staying with remaining,
and dividing staying with remaining he was not retaining dividing staying with leaving, and
not dividing staying with leaving he was having having been completely measuring arranging
and he was having having divided all of staying with all of remaining. He was dividing all
of remaining with having been had having and he was had and he was dividing all of staying
with being had and taking all of dividing remaining with staying with having been had in taking
being had. He had dividing staying and not dividing anything of all of remaining, and he had
dividing all of staying with having had something of all of having been had in being had.

Enough is what all had who did not have enough and all and some and all who were and some who
were and all were and they all were dividing coming and meaning, and speaking and meeting and
they all were dividing staying and working and all and some and one and all and some and all
and all were dividing staying and speaking and working and advancing and losing and opening
and selling. All were dividing coming and hearing and taking and going and agreeing and staying.
All were dividing and one, and all were dividing, and one was dividing, and all were dividing,
and all and one, and all and some, and some and some, and one, and one and some, and one were
dividing staying with selling, and staying with changing, and staying with staying, and staying
with telling what they were speaking, and staying with following, and staying with protesting,
and staying with agreeing, and staying with staying.

He turned away and said that he had come to stay. He had come to stay. He turned away and said
that he had come and was saying what he knew he was saying. He was not saying that he knew
what he was feeling. He was not saying that he knew what he was doing. He turned away and he
said he had come to stay and he did stay and stay and he did say all he did say. In staying
he was not losing what he was having. In staying he was walking and walking that which was
rattling was rattling and that which was rattling was not rattling any more than it would be
rattling if any one were walking where he was walking and he was walking and he was staying
and he turned away and said he was staying and he did stay and staying he was saying what he
said he was saying.

While he would come to have the one who had made a pipe for him make another pipe for him and
then another, while he who would come to have the pipe he would have when he had had all the
places he wanted to have to have the pipes come to that would come, while he was staying and
he was staying, he was saying that he was saying all he was saying, while he was staying and
he was staying he was having what he said he knew he could not destroy if he destroyed anything,
while he was staying and he was staying, while he was staying he was going and to each one
he was going and going he was to each one saying what he was meaning when he had what he did
not destroy when he destroyed anything. He did feed all he fed, he did feel all he ate, he
did eat all he had, he did have all he ate, he did eat all he gave, he did give all he ate,
he did give what he ate, he did eat what he ate.

He who was alone when he was alone was not alone because he was not alone. He was not alone
because not being alone he was not alone.

He would not have refused anything that he was giving. He came to every one and telling each
one he told every one what he told and he told all he told, he was telling each one what he
was telling every one as each one being each one every one was every one.

He was not one who was just telling each one what he told each one, and every one what he told
every one. He was one and he did not refuse all he gave. He was one and some who were staying
and knowing completely knowing he was staying were what they were when they were all they were,
and they were all they were when they were what they were when they were. They were all there
and all of them being there and he being there and he and all of them being all of them, they
did do that thing, they did do what they said they said as they said they knew what they said.

They were all staying if they were all having all they were all having and they were all coming
to be staying when they were all not coming to be having what they were all having. They were
all not staying. They did stay. He did stay and staying he would be alone when he was not staying
and he was not alone as he was not staying. He was not alone.

Five of the different kinds one is and being had every day is not being had too often if all
staying are saying all they are knowing they are saying. If all staying are saying all they
are knowing they are saying and five of the different kinds one is is had every day then it
is enough if one is asking if three of the different kinds one is should not be changing to
two different kinds that that one is, if one is asking it is enough if all are asking and all
staying are saying all of what they are knowing they are saying.

Five of the different kinds one is and some of the kinds one is coming to be all the different
kinds one is then all who are staying are saying all they are saying when they they are knowing
that all are saying all they are knowing they are saying.

He said that he heard that he said that he was not staying and he said he was not staying as
he was the one not intending leaving staying. He was not then all of not staying. He was then
giving all of not staying and giving all of not staying he had a certificate that he was not
staying and he would be staying when he said that he said what he knew he said and he had said,
he had been saying all of saying that he knew he said that he knew he said what he said and
he said what he knew he said.

In pleasing and he did say what he said he knew he said, in pleasing he was staying where he
said he had been staying when he had come to be leaving. In pleasing he was reciting what staying
had been when he could have been leaving. In staying he was saying that he knew that he was
saying what he was saying.

Sitting together and if there was room for six there was room for ten, sitting together they
could follow two and they did follow one. Sitting together they said what they said when they
saw what they had seen.

They did not sit together when they were saying what they knew they were saying, they were
staying and beginning that it had come to pass that all who were leaving had been staying.

If walking fast tired one, listening tired one. If talking tired one, not talking tired one.
If staying tired one, leaving did not tire one. If saying that he knew what he was saying tired
one, talking did not tire one.

If hurrying was what not any one of them was doing, waiting was not what any one of them was
doing. If persisting was what one of them was doing, hesitating was what that one was doing.

They did not declare that they were there and they were not there when they declared that they
were staying where they were going. It was not all of the urging that had come out of anything
that decided everything. It was not the troubling every one that hurt every one. It was not
the following one that meant that they followed something. There was room for ten when there
was room for six. Sixty came and they stayed when they stayed. And two would not believe that
they had stayed all they had stayed. There was room for ten when there was room for six.

They were all staying and they did not stay because they had stayed to stay. They had not stayed
to stay. They had come to stay.

In staying they were not following one, they were following all who stayed, and following all
who stayed they did not follow as they all stayed.

They did all stay and staying they did with feeling that they were saying what they knew they
were saying.

They did begin one and one and all of them to stay. They did stay. They were saying, one was
saying, they were saying, each was saying, all were saying that which they said they knew they
were saying.

They did all of them come to staying. They did all of them come to following each one. They
did all of them come to say that they had been saying what they knew they were saying.

If they had any of them refused all they could refuse they would have been all of them important
as they were. They were saying what they knew they were saying. They were refusing all they
were refusing.

They did not see all who were staying to say what they knew they were saying. They did hear
very much of all they heard. They were enlightened when they said they were staying and that
they were saying what they knew they were saying.

They had enough to be attacking confusion, they had enough of staying. They had enough of staying
in accomplishing to be aspiring in saying what they were knowing they were saying.

Addressing themselves then they were saying what they were saying. Allowing themselves then
they were saying what they were saying. Intending then they were saying what they were saying.
Following then they were saying what they were saying. Leading then they were saying what they
were saying. Having been staying they were coming in saying what they were saying. Expecting
then they were deciding destroying and knowing what they where saying. Working then they were
producing saying what they were knowing they were saying.

It was not a fantasy this which was an open movement of staying. It was not a desertion this
which was a complete staying in recognising. It was not completely enterprising that which
was creating following. It was not determining that which was intending some destroying. It
was completely enlivening this which was contrasting what was remaining. It was completely
intending that which was opening alarming. It was completely meaning that which was beginning
explaining understanding. It was vaguely attacking that which was distinctly clearing. It was
deciding believing that which was expecting demonstrating.

They all were where any one who was not there was and they all were where they would be when
they were where they had come when they had stayed as they had stayed, because they had stayed
and staying and saying that which they were knowing they were completely what if emerging is
accepting constraining is not destroying and intending is continuing.

In having meaning, in expecting realisation, in deserting wearying, in exhausting attending,
in loving insisting, in embarking anything, in continuing meaning, in persisting working, in
hoping having been realising, in urging continuous hoping, in longing for existing, in hearing
encouraging, in desolating what is waiting, in returning what has been being the ridiculous
part of everything, in remembering all of conquering that has meaning, in straining all of
selling that has buying, in operating all the desolation that has repeating, in all that is
and was these who were and came were the ones who are when they stay and do not remain where
they will be, these were the ones who are when they are and they are when they are as they
had when they had what they had because they did not have what they could have since they did
not have all they did have as they were when they are.

In staying and not waiting in choosing and progressing, in following and destroying, in succeeding
and denying, in aspiring and varying in remaining and not saddening, in looking often, in expecting
everything, in remaining after leaving choosing some, in selling after succeeding, in expecting
to be selling after succeeding, in not denying selling after succeeding, in saying that saying
can be saying, in arranging to be seeing what has been being seen when it has been seen, in
returning when changing, in not going back in returning, in succeeding when they were remaining,
in remaining when they had been succeeding, in remaining when they were not going to be succeeding,
they were living. They were living. There had been room for ten when there had been room for
six. There was room for six when there was room for ten. They were living.

They said that they knew that to be living was to be living. They said that they knew that
if there was room for ten there was room for ten. They said there was room for ten. They said
if there was room for ten there was room for six. They said there was room for ten. They said
if there was room for ten there was room for six. They said there was room. They said there
was room for ten. They said there was room for ten and they said if there was room for six
there was room for ten.

They prepared something. They did not prepare saying they were knowing what they were saying.
They were knowing they were saying what they were saying. They were staying. They were preparing
what they would be doing as they were staying where they were staying. They were not preparing
staying.

He did say what he did say and that was to say that many kept away there where they said what
they knew they said when they stayed as they stayed. He did not say that they stayed away.
He did not say that staying they were saying that they were knowing that they were saying that
they were staying. He did say that staying they were saying that they were knowing what they
were saying, he did say that they were staying. He did not say that he was staying when he
was saying that he was knowing what he was saying. He did not say that he was saying what he
was knowing what he was saying. He was saying that he was knowing that he was saying what he
was saying and he did say that he was knowing he was staying. He did not say that he would
be staying. He did not say that he would be knowing that he was saying what he was saying.
He did say that if he would be staying he would be knowing he was saying what he was saying.
He did say that he would be saying what he would be saying and he would be staying when he
would be staying. He did say he would be staying.

They were all there was of the ones they all were and this was not because they were moving
in unison, this was not because they were regular in working, this was not because they were
defending what they were leading, this was not because they were holding what they were having,
this was not because they were not succeeding, this was not because they were not realising
all that was breathing, this was not because they were acting as they were intending, this
was not because they were feeling in being needing, this was not because wonderfully exciting
was being progressing, this was not because they were placing what they were inspecting, this
was not because they were not urging what they were using, this was because they were following
where they were leading.

If expecting nothing is not disconcerting expecting something is not annoying. He who had what
was refused sold what he had given. He did not sell it again. He sold it once and that was
satisfying. He felt it all all there was of selling. He knew he felt it all all there was of
selling. He knew that he was having refused again what he had the obligation of having being
existing. He felt all there was of having being knowing what he was intending would be satisfying
when the obligation of selling would be completing selling what he had been creating.

He did not live then and he was then the one living who was saying what he was saying, saying
he was knowing what he was saying, saying that all who were leading and staying were saying
that he was saying what he was knowing he was saying.

He did use the complete way of showing leading being staying and staying being saying what
was knowing being saying.

If seeing all and feeling all, if seeing all and feeling all and producing all and explaining
all and attending all and demonstrating all, if seeing all and feeling all, if producing all
and explaining all and demonstrating all and attending all, if producing all and explaining
all and feeling all and seeing all and attending all, if seeing all and producing all and explaining
all is the condition of any one being like many men then he who was the one who was that one
was undoubtedly that one and is undoubtedly this one and this one had done that which as accumulating
and explaining and existing is persisting.

He and continuing, prospering and assorting, varying and meaning, hoping and enlarging, tolerating
and turning, he and producing, he and seeing, he and feeling, he and continuing, he and some
of them were not then what he had when he had what he had.

If making again and again the complete tinkling that moving anything is producing is annoying
it can be that it is a heavy horrid thing the thing that is produced by some one, it can be
that it is a thickening dull thing, a visibly weakening thing, a prettily cherished thing,
a large awkward thing, a large dreary thing, a large boisterous thing, a large thing, a small
thing, a tiny thing, an agreeable thing. One making something is making a vigorous brilliant
completed ragged covered thing. One making something is making a completed, heavy, brilliant,
vigorous, startling, adjoining thing.

He came to be the one who was the one who could say what he did say when he said that he had
done all he had done. There were enough who had what they had so that they all said that they
had done what they had done.

They were what they were as they said that they were and they were doing what they were doing
as they said they were doing what they were doing.

If it is a willing thing to be fairly active in determining that leaving leaning forward means
marrying, if it is a happy thing that exhibiting means coming to be withdrawing what one was
expecting to have had remaining, if it is a lonely thing to be telling some one who is one
who has come to be one that they are waiting and certainly not any one had been so completely
despairing as some one is worrying, if it is a lovely thing to have what is remaining lasting
so that leaving it is not destroying loving being something, if it is succeeding to be discovering
that having been is losing coming to be, if it is an aspiring thing to be marrying when a little
thing is a big thing and a big thing is selling for what it is selling, if it is a steady thing
that all that has been is following when all that has been has been completing arranging being
and not being deceiving, if all that can be worried is lost and all that can be gained can
be won and all that remained can be shown and all that is sold can be seen, if seizing is not
doing and doing is progressing and progressing is denying and denying is constructing and constructing
is explaining and explaining is unifying and unifying is repeating and repeating is creating,
if creating is not exhausting and if not exhausting is allowing saying what is saying when
talking is enlarging what enlarging is meaning when meaning has expression, if expression has
emotion and emotion has a medium and a medium is adaptation and adaptation is not being used
when anything is coming then all who had the room that they had when they were what they were
saying was what saying is if it is producing and it is producing, all had the room where they
put what they put as they made what they made and felt what they felt and followed what they
led and led where they went.

Late in looking like a young man, long in looking like a young man, young in being quite a
young man, last in beginning continuing being a young man he who was clearly using all he was
using was feeling enough of having what he was having to be feeling all he was feeling in suffering
all he was suffering and producing what he was producing. In producing what he was producing
he was not spending what he was paying in buying what he was buying. He bought something and
he used something and he had something and he produced something and he sold what he sold and
that which was selling was not being deceiving because he was producing what he was producing
and having what he was having.

It is not likely that exchanging producing for buying and buying for selling and selling for
worrying and worrying for succeeding and succeeding for marrying and marrying for having children
and having children for directing and directing for explaining and explaining for complaining
and complaining for winning and winning for receiving and receiving for anticipating and anticipating
for remaining, it is not likely that being for being and producing for explaining and suffering
for producing and winning for suffering and continuing for winning and spending for continuing
can be meaning that largely continuing is not needing producing and needing producing is not
achieving existing and achieving existing is expressing explaining and expressing explaining
is convincing realising and convincing realising is active repetition and active repetition
is expressing complete being and expressing complete being is undertaking disagreeing and undertaking
disagreeing is winning harmonising and winning harmonising is showing objection and showing
objection is fulfilling producing and fulfilling producing is understanding creation and undertaking
creation is destroying filling and destroying filling is arranging existing and arranging existing
is demonstrating anything and demonstrating anything is fulfilling something and fulfilling
something is emptying filling and emptying filling is creating action and creating action is
suggesting realisation and suggesting realisation is expecting working and expecting working
is attending continuing.

Everything that came went and every one who went came and they all and there were six when
there were two and there were five when there were ten and there were thirty six when they
were twelve and there were fifty-six when there were eighty and there were three when there
nineteen and there was one when there were ten and there were two when there were three and
they all came and went and they all went and they all came and they all came and went and they
all came and they all went and they all came and they came and they came and they went and
came and they came and went and they came. They came and they all they all stayed and left.

When any one is every way and every one is every way when any one is every way they are all
working and they are not working together when each one is working.

They are working and all working they have hanging what they put where they put it where it
is. And they can easily have them together they being where they are and they can publish it
in a report they writing what is written and leading where they are following, and leading
where they are leading, and leading.

It is a robust decision that would be made by a robust man not suffering and a robust man is
suffering if he has a little child who is a little girl and living. He can then keep what he
has and take what he gives and place what he receives and marry what he will have. He can then
tell what he explains and he can then ask that he hears what will be said.

He was not astonishing, he was not despairing, he was leading.

The way he came not to laugh was by continuing to talk and talking was not what he was doing
and he was doing what he was doing. If they were there and they were there if they were there
they were not destroying what he was not destroying.

There were eight who were not laughing. There were eight and he was not laughing. There were
eight who were not laughing.

There were four who were not laughing. He was not laughing. They were talking. He was talking.
They were producing. He was producing. They were intending. He was intending.

He was producing and he was not laughing and he was talking and he was asking that he could
have the whole list that he had made mean something. The whole list he had made meant something.
It meant all of something. He did not disoblige all when he did all he did and he was all he
was and he did all he did and he was talking and he was producing and he meant all of something.

They did not call each other and they did not say a man, a man. They did not call each other.
They did say that there was a man and there would be men and they would not be calling.

They meant that they said that there would not be calling. They meant that they said what they
knew and they said what they knew they said.

They said that not calling was different from calling in a way and they said that there were
men and they said there was a man and they said that they would be the men they would be and
there would not be calling. If there was the following and leading, if there had been calling,
if there was not calling, if there would be what there would be they were all what they were
and though they said there was a man they said that there was not any calling. They said there
was not any calling, they said they were saying what they knew they were saying.

They were not continuing intending, they were continuing saying that calling is calling, they
were continuing proposing saying they were saying what they were knowing they were saying.

He was one and he did not stumble when he heard that calling is calling. He did not deny that
saying a man is having calling is saying a man is having calling. He did not deny that calling
is calling. He did not hear that any one calling and saying what they were saying were saying
that calling is calling.

He did not hesitate and he was there and he was not calling and he was saying that not calling
is not calling. He was not saying that he knew he was saying what he knew he was saying. He
was saying that not calling is not calling. He was saying that he knew he was saying what he
was saying. He was saying that not calling is not calling. He was saying that calling and saying
a man is not calling is not saying that not calling is not calling.

They always thought that they did not fail all of any of them and they did not and they were
there where if they were they were. It was the way to be that which they did not do and they
said it, they did say it, and they did not declare it and they could not hear all that was
said although they did hear often that all that was said was said.

If showing what is done is one thing, and doing what is shown is one thing, and saying what
is said is one thing, and hearing what is heard is one thing, then to be some one must find
out in some way that they are the one who are the one to do what is shown, to show what is
done, to hear what is heard, to say what is said. The way to find out that the one showing
is showing, the way to find out that one is that one is to be that one. The way to find out
that the one doing what is showing is doing what is showing is to be the one doing what is
showing. The way to find out that the one hearing what is heard is the one hearing what is
heard is to be the one hearing what is heard. The way to find out that the one saying what
is said is the one saying what is said is to be that one the one saying what is said.

Not gathered together is a way of sitting. It is not the only way of sitting.

He was not gathered together. He was sitting and when he was sitting he could say that he did
say that any day was a day. He did say that that day was a day that he had been sitting. He
did not say that not gathered together was a way of sitting. He did not say that there was
a way of sitting.

He accomplished it all. He accomplished not being gathered together is a way of sitting. He
accomplished all and he said that that day was a day and he said that he did not sit and not
sitting he did not sit not gathered together. He said that if he sat not gathered together
he told what he knew he had had that day as he had sat that day and he did not say that he
sat not gathered together, he did not say that he did not sit that day, he did say that he
had sat that day.

He was the one who was that one who was one who said that sitting was where he sat, and he
did not sit gathered together. He did not say that sitting he sat, he did say that sitting
is sitting, he did say that he sat, he did say that hearing what he had not seen saying was
not tormenting.

He did receive when he received and he did sit not gathered together when he sat and was not
gathered together and he sat and he said that sitting all of sitting, all of sitting not gathered
together was sitting, and he said that he saw all of sitting and he said he sat and he said
that the sitting he sat he sat when he was sitting and he said he had been sitting and he said
that he was sitting and he said he sat. He did say that he sat.

It was not a desperate disturbance that he returned when he sat not gathered together. He did
not sit not gathered together. He emerged and he did not say that he did not sit. He did say
that he did sit. He said that any day he sat was a day he sat. He said he sat any day. He said
he sat.

He accomplished it all. He did that. In all that was what sitting is not he was all that was
that was when he was and he was sitting not gathered together.

He did not see. When he did see he explained that seeing he was sitting and sitting he was
gathered together. He accomplished it all.

He did accomplish it all and in all of it he was the one who sitting was having it said that
he sitting was gathered together and that he was not sitting. He did say that that which was
said was what was said. He did not complete saying he was sitting not gathered together, he
was sitting gathered together.

He looked there where looking is seeing. He looked there. Always he did not know that doing
so he was the one who was the one sitting and sitting not gathered together, sitting gathered
together, sitting. He did know that he was sitting. He did know. He did know he was sitting
gathered together. He did know. If he was one who was to be one he was one who being one is
accomplishing it all. And this is not everything, this is not what it is when it is what it
is. Very likely there are all there who are there when not any one is there. Very likely they
are there. Very likely and he who saw when he saw where he looked was there and he was there
when he was not there, and very likely he was there.

It all is not enough. And always it is all. It is all. That is not what it is. That is what
it is. It is all. That is enough and he can say it and say that it is not enough. He can say
that all is all. He can say it. He says all is all. He says it. He says that all is all and
he says it and there is what is said. It is really all and it is not said that all is all.
If it is said that all is all it is said that it is said.

There could be if there is the remarkable expression that allowing something and asking repetition
and regaining elevation and continuing sounding is the creation of a nation if all of them
are being living. They are being living in remaining accumulating and they are remaining accumulating
as they are reserving what they are sparing and they are sparing what in buying and selling
is not remaining. All who are not one are all enough to see that they have where they have
what they have. They are not all one. One is one. They are all the one where there is one that
is one.

White and color and also other things are not retracting what they are going to be doing. Smaller
and large, big and little, active and acting are not intending to be denying what they are
saying. Accumulating is not ceasing to be meaning increasing. Expressing is not emerging and
destroying. Agreeing is agreeing. Convincing is selling. Increasing is oddly what it is.

Increasing and selling, having and reiterating is where it is and it is there and it is moving.

Completely the having come to walk may be the way of staying. He came and it was told to him
that he would be pounding. He did not do that. He did what he did and he copied somethings
and some who saw him said to him that he did that then. He said to them that he was doing what
he was doing. He said to them that he asked any one if he was to be the one he was to be. He
said that he was asking to be continuing.

He did not have it there where he came to stay he did not have it there to be the one who had
been one who had come there to be pounding. He was continuing. He undertook all of undertaking
continuing all except that which was undertaken by some one giving him what they should have
given him. He was continuing.

It is very likely that a way to be in play is to say that a beard which is in the mouth is
not eaten. That is a way to play and he who in a complete expression was keeping what he had
begotten did come to ask that in working he should be receving what working could be done to
keep him. He was active and this was not oppressive as three times was many times all winter
and every winter and every summer and all summer. He was there and everywhere all the rectification
was that a recital would be written. It was not written that is to say a writing that came
was not coming and the time that was was there and anyway a beginning that was not determining
as to beginning being exciting was determining as to a recital having the meaning that a recital
being existing is completely the recital that is the recital that was there when there came
to be there there where he came to have there what he had. Certainly the end was removing,
certainly he was not deliberating and the reason that likelihood was not compelling was that
he being there and there being where he being there, there had been and would be there. It
was not a day and not a night, and it was not talking and keeping still that determined anything,
it was that there was there and he had been and would be there. And he was not everywhere and
he was there where any one could be certain that any one not hearing him would be seeing him
and seeing and hearing him would be remaining and exposing and allowing what they did not undertake
and he did not begin to hear.

Likely very likely yes, likely very likely no, likely, very likely he said they were the men
who called each other everything. And this one was the one who came and he said that they were
then the men who called each other everything. This was demonstrating that appearances are
not deceiving. He was the one who said that the one who was the one who was one they were callling
each other everything was the one who was leading and following and they were all leading and
following. He was the one dwelling on enthusiasm and calling every one something and calling
some something and calling everything. He was not destroying anticipation. He was dwelling
on reaction. He was not discounting reverberation. He was all there was when a district was
not under construction. He did orginate feeling enjoying enthusiasm in calling all of them
everything. This was one who was a crowd when all of them were together.

If he came to say that he had a headache it was because he had always had something that did
not stop him from coming to have his head aching when he was not seeing that he was resting.
He did not need resting. He did not need headache. He did need to have what he had and he had
what he had and when he showed what he had he said all he said. He was ready to repeat the
name he used when he used a name and he did use a name and repeat the same and he was ready
to come when he came and he was ready to feel what he felt and he said what he said. He did
not decline all reverberation. He did authenticate living in a house and having enough children.
He did actualise knowing where some things could be hanging. He was not receiving what would
be coming. He would not articulate that he had not refused an opinion. He did not affirm that
he went everywhere. He did tell all he had known of experiencing something.

To see and have a beard, to see and shave it, to see and seeing see that the light that is
shining and showing a beard which is growing is the light that has been showing a beard that
was a beard and has been a beard that has been shaved as shaving is shaving, to see and have
the color stay where color stays, to see and have the water lie where water lies, to see and
have the trees have leaves the way the trees have leaves, to see and be the one who has the
work that makes the way that has the form that shows the land that is the grass and holds the
weight that is the light and is the last that is the same as it is when it is where it is that
every one encouraging themselves are denying and are not remaining to be sharing. It is that
it is all there is to forget when all that is is what came to be by seeing where feeling having
grass which is not shining is not denying anything, and denying anything is not returning and
is returning often. This can not demonstrate that the white that is not remaining is not changing.
This can demonstrate enough to keep all pushing and continuing to go on expressing anything.
This does not make what it is when all is returned. This does undertake feeling and describing
a little man to be sitting and a little woman to be bathing. This is not happening and a bigger
one a bigger woman is existing and is eating and bathing and dressing and remaining and sleeping.

Particularly penetrating and undulating when the round thing is rising is the reaction of the
feeding that rejecting is establishing the reconciliation between antagonising and replenishing.
He came to see him again and this was on the day when he was visiting. He was talking. He said
all he was criticising. He remarked again that others were missing. He did not undertake excepting
what he was refusing. They were not alternating often. He had been estimable. He was not absolute
in accompanying talking. He was partly not coming again and listening.

He is ardent and not derogatory and he is talking and not swaying as he is standing and he
is shortening in not betraying that he has not been changing. He stayed longer than he was
refusing to stay and this was not embittering. He could win enough of complete likelihood to
release the volume of delicate intention. He had it then and was enough and he stayed with
ardent expression of having been continuing creating not ceasing to be existing.

It was a fact in undertaking that they were not pursuing. It was a farther distance and they
were grouping. He who was there was often there and he was like the remaining one who was undertaking
not pursuing. He was not pursuing. He was not remaining. He was there.

If they all knew that they had met they could say that meeting was not meaning that all of
them were all of them. They did not begin saying anything. They could be continuing. They were
all saying that they had the likelihood of separating something from everything. They did not
say everything quite enough. Not any of them was always complaining.

It was not an arrangement when they saw that each one lived in a place where that one was living.
They did not separate then. Not any two of them were living in the same building.

They did not undertake everything. They had what they needed when they did not refuse anything
and they did not refuse anything. They did not have enough. They were not all of them being
there then.

He was the pronouncer who was not undertaking the way to have enough listen to every one. He
could follow then and watch succeeding come to be existing. He who was not accustomed to something
did not lead the procession as he was walking where he was talking. He was not without freedom.
He was not retaliating.

He had the way which if there was conquest was not forgiving he had the way of keeping what
was not refusing to be increasing. He did not take enough in taking too much. He did not take
plenty and he had it all when he kept it. He was not denying intending to be asking.

There was not each one when three of them were undertaking what they were undertaking. There
was not each one when seven of them were undertaking what they were then doing. They were not
together to make a dozen. They were there all of them and showing what they were showing as
showing was where they were showing as they were showing when they were showing.

He did the same.

It was not the only way they came the way they all found they were leading. They came that
way. They were there. They were not when they were everywhere they were not anywhere. They
were there. They were the present indication of being where they were leading. They were not
expelling indicating. They were not lowering exception. They were there.

They did not see a way that did not come and did not stay and did not stay away. They saw a
way that was a way and would convey the way that would lose some way. They did not have the
way that was not some way. They had a way that were ways and they each one did not sing, they
each one had a way.

He was not over when a way was under. He was not under and he had the way that were ways and
he was not one not singing, he was one relieving a way that way not existing. He had the way
and was not pursuing contradiction. He was keeping being expecting to be refusing intending
to accept indicating being having been in being surprising. He had some way that was completing
not intending refusing being giving receiving being outraging captivating. He was not declining.
He had not some when he was a wonder. He was continuing.

Very likely complaining was not adjusting receiving and arranging. Very likely complaining
was not being existing.

He who undertook the most and three years was not plenty, he who undertook something saw some
one. He saw the short length of the piece that was where it was made. He saw it where all was
not made in the time that came every other day. He saw what was not left when he did not give
away anything. He was the aggressor when there was no one who was completely fatigued. He listened
often.

He, and they were not determined then, he wore what he had and he had what he wore. He was
not adding destruction. He left when he stayed away and he came in then and there was not complete
intention. He felt enough.

They were not too much withdrawing to achieve repenting and this was not unnecessary, this
was not at all unnecessary. The whole of it all came to be too many and this was not at all
unneccesary. They were not adjusting what was not determined. They were not withdrawing continuing.
They were not.

They had been and they were where all the way was the coming of all of it that was that. They
did have something and they did have that and they did go there and they did stay there and
they did continue then and they did end and they did begin and they were what was when they
they did where they did all they did as they did what they did.

They were not all there. They were there and they were when they were where they were as they
were there and they were there. They were not all there. They were there.

He was not there as he was the one who when he was there was there and he was there. He was
there and they were not with him and they were there they and he they were there they who were
there. They were all there.

If they were all there they were there as they were there and it was the whole accepting, seeing,
doing what was the acceptance and undertaking that was what did not remain to deter what was
that which did not chagrin the one who was the one and they were all there that one, any one.
They were there. They stayed. He stayed. He was there. They were there.

If there is a way to be gay it is the way that is evidently a way. They were gay.

He who was not too proud to have the paper arranged was certainly hesitating to give all that
he asked. He did not change anything. He kept what he hoped would be taken. He said that he
had felt all that.

They who were not different did not refuse that which they had heard that they would arrange.
They did not disoblige any one. They returned again and received something. They were not all
despairing.

The meaning of undertaking was not extravagantly anticipated when they were not older than
they had been. They were not all disliking something. They attributed the same arrangement
to the thing that was happening. They did not deny intending to be meditating. They were not
all there then. There were not too many anywhere. They were all when they were there.

Each one of them presuming that that one was that one were not presuming all the time that
they were presuming often. Each one of them was the opposite of something. They did not each
one determine all of anything. They did undertake enough.

A partition separating all in one room from all in another room and which has a door is the
wall that is not disturbing the condition of all living in a building. This was not a complication.
It did not belong there where it was and that was not neccesary when they were all living.
They did change something.

They did not any of them come there where each one was living. They were not indulging in everything.

A likely way to stay indoors is to have some interruption. They were not dealing in undertaking
removing an active cooperation. They had the extreme way of being there where they had joined
coming. This was not an alteration. This was division. This was diminishing alternation. They
said all that which was the hearty hearing of anything which was the combination of that thing.
They did not destroy themselves then. They were permitting all that they had as being living.
They did not inhabit every building. They were all there when they had that inspiration. They
did again when all of them were some of them. Some of them were all of them. One of them was
one and that was the state of active occupation. All was not artificial. This was not the meaning
of ending and beginning. There could be the one who was the one who could be that one.

They were not repeating signalling to each other that they were joining together. They did
not learn to come together. They stayed when they saw that they had a movement. They did not
stay then. They did not learn all that there was of leaving. They meant it all.

One who harmonised this did not refuse to utter something. He said that he saw something. He
did not agree to everything. He was not refusing to neglect the rest of the things that were
meaning what they were meaning. He did not have enough distraction to occupy all the way that
he moved. He did not move too much all the time. He did what he did. He joined some. He neglected
remaining all the time. He directed that best. He was not apportioning all the merit to each
one as each one said something. He gave everything. He used something. He did not come again
all the time. He was not withdrawing mentioning what had been mentioned. He introduced some.
He said it all. He was giving the same. He came all of some of the ways that were not the only
ways. He did not deny the same thing again. He adjusted feeling desertion. He rearranged adding
instruction. He deserted equalisation. He regretted acceleration. He denied intention. He agreed
to description. He felt combination. He ordered reorganisation. He atoned for beginning. He
pursued realisation. He adored distribution. He remarked domination. He altered acceptation.
He changed selection. He persisted in continuation. He achieved elimination. He rested in conclusion.
He grew older.

They were not the same when they saw it all and they did not change. There were enough of them.
One was enough and he did not change. He did it all. He was accumulating this thing. He was
not alone. He did not know any of them then and he met them and he knew them. He went away
with one of them. He was enough.

He was not disturbing wearing what he was coming to have as a thing that was to cover him.
He did not say that he liked it more than he did. He said he had been feeling something. He
did not like to hear that he was the one who was having what he was having. He was not refusing
hearing anything.

He had that as past what he was feeling in the future. He did not relieve himself of all of
anything. He did not order any one to come and remain. He said that he asked all of the way
meaning is being existing. He was not dividing coming again from remaining. He was the one
who had remained and then had not left. He was the one who went where he went and did that
which was the thing that was done then. He did not interfere with himself in hearing himself
tell it all again. He was not astonishing.

This was not the only way that he was and he was the one who was all of that one. He did the
same when he felt all he felt and he kept all he did when he felt all he felt. He had the same
explanation when he was agreeing that he was winning as he had when he was agreeing that he
was feeling. He was not sleeping in the morning and he was eating something in the evening.
He did not turn away from this thing. He felt all that he felt. He did what he did when he
did that which he did to do what he did. He attempted the whole way of going to be remaining
and he succeeded in staying and astonishing. He did not undertake everything.

To sweep and not to leave what is not swept up, to reply and not to refuse to continue talking,
to explain and to convince some one, to show all and to keep what is hidden, to be expressive
and to attack the expense of travelling, to be careful and to ejaculate, to be sincere and
to be using confounding refusing with deterioration, to be moving and steadying and surging
and complaining and succeeding and grieving and exalting and speeding and pressing and acquiring
is not the same thing as being any one. Some one is not the same and that one is not refusing
all in refusing everything. That one is the only one. He is there again. He sits where he tells
what he tells when he tells all he tells as he tells why he tells what there is that he can
tell and has told. He does not refuse to remain although he does stay when he stays. He is
there. This is not the end of all that.

Assailable barter in withdrawing slaughter is not the least of expression of following disaster.
The ardent sitter and the intending hearer and the reclaiming helper and the disturbing divider
and the vigorous hearer and the alarming buyer and the deep thinker and the steady beginner,
all the leader and half the seller, all the listener and all the controller, all the etcetera
and all the clearer, all the continuer and the rest steadily staying somewhere, all the same
what was was there and what is is here. If the rest remain then getting them all there is not
laughing as each one can tell the same. They do not all see. They have that which becomes them.
They are not keeping everything. They give it again. They say they do.

He had all when he had enough and knew them all and said it as if he saw where he heard. He
was shining and there was not all the fast bowing that he was not doing. He did the same. He
said that and something else. He was not remaining still. He stated it all. It was there and
he was with it when he did not loan it. He did not loan it. This was not all the same.

Way in and way on and the waiting and all and he was there and they were anywhere when there
was there and they were not anywhere but there. They did not astonish themselves as they expected
to be where there was there. They were feeling all of it and all they said they listened not
to answer and hear but to say and see. They were the same. That was individual. They were the
group. That was the way. They said it some. That was the rest. They saw it there. That was
the reason. They felt it all. That was the feeling. They did it then. That was their doing.
They hung it well. That was their arrangement. They were giving something. That was their way.
They helped it then. That was their expression. They met often. That was their intention. They
separated then. That was their separation.

They were not identical with what had happened. They were not opposing what was delighting
them. They were not losing what they were saying. They were not giving what they were urging.
They were not the same.

Walking around when the wet place is drying is not causing all the discussion which can be
had when one and the other one and one and one have put the four places together so that they
all have the same position. They describe each other. They were not darkening sitting and not
waiting. They were feeling. They could see the white cover that was taken off when they were
together. They felt all of something. They felt all of that thing. They were all coming. They
had the picture of their having been those who had done what those had done and they had the
decision that they were seeing all that they were seeing. They did not die one by one. They
did not die, all of them. They did not see what was the same thing as being coming to remain
where they placed what they were when they were to come to be something. They were shortly
having all the remains of continuing. They had been feeling. They had all the same what was
the rest of something. They had something.

In leaving they were not leaving what was left. They did not undertake it all. They did not
refuse this.

They were the same when they told that they were where they were they were the same as feeling
is inducing blasting. They were not the same when they were all seeing the same expression.
They were the same when they were all giving all they were saying. They were the same when
they were helping all invitation to be existing. They were not the same when they were not
extinguishing something. They were all the same when all of them remembered that they had yet
all of the rest to see. They were not the same when they were not wishing what they were exchanging.
They were not all the same.

He was not all the same. He did not choose to go away and leave the refusal of adding one to
one. He did not enjoy everything.

He who was not the same was the one who talking was not adjusting all he was saying to all
he was doing. He did that. He wore the same color when he was happier and when he was duller.
He wore a color and he was showing color. That was not in him a disembarkation. He had some
of the convenience. He came to have some conveniences. He was used to them.

Some talking is all the rest when all the rest is where there is more of that. He who was not
alternating was the one who was the same and being the same he used all of that. He did it
with the way that he wore that color more and more. He was not all the rest. There were the
rest. He was not any of them. They were there. He was there. They were not anywhere. He was
not anywhere.

Ninety-five and seventy-two are not all the numbers that he said he knew when he said he would
make an arrangement that would satisfy him. He did not hope for more than he came to have.
He allowed that he was despairing. He said he was feeling all that. He said he was all the same.

He said that when he heard that the only number was fifty-two he was willing to keep it and
he said that when he did not keep it he was suffering. He said he did suffer. He said that
when he had sixty-five he was certain that he had been right. He was right and he had enough
and he kept on saying so. He said it was hard work. He said he did not suffer but he said he
did not like somethings. He said he felt that. He said he was not obliging and he was not needing
to be enterprising. He said that he came where he came and he said that that was not all the
meaning there was when he saw all. He said he did do that. He did.

That was not the only answer there was. There was an answer that he kept all the rest. There
was an answer that he meant something. That was an answer that he could not distinguish what
was sung. There was an answer that he kept on. There was an answer. He did not have all the
names. He knew them all. He did not stay at home. He did not like everything. He was succeeding.

All the way he had to say that he did see the use of some who did the same when they came to
have enough to show it all. He did not sigh when he said that he would see in the direction
in which there came all the strength that he felt there could be as each one did that which
he did in showing all there is to see. He was noble, he did aniticipate the rest. He did release
all of going often. He did visit every afternoon. He did eat all he said he needed. He felt
the complete way of feeling what he was deciding and originating. He was not foolish. He was
not uninterested. He did not answer everything when he said that he did what he did. All the
way that there came all the rest who were strong, all the way that each one had the life he
was saying would be expressing all the tendency to simplify what could be elaborate, all the
way that there the steady help of employing a correction and a criticism and a piece of paper
and more action, all the way each one said that he was talking, all there was there was of
living as each one is existing, all the way that there came to be the whole of it all, all
the way is not the way they all expected to stay.

They did not smell the same when they came all the way. They did not say that they would not
put what they had where they had when they stayed. They did not say that they had that way.
They did say what they did say.

A package that is carried is a package that has in it what is inside it. This is not the answer
when some one asking is asking what it is that is being carried. Any way of alternating visiting
is one way of not going the same way as the way some one has gone that way. This is not enough
to change everything.

All the conclusions that are beginning are not the difficulties that each one is refusing.
They were all indicating something. They had that which they did and they sold it and some
bought it. This was not discouraging.

He said it, it was not the only way to say it, it was the only way he said it, he said that
the same was all the same, he said he was feeling the absolute transmission of the accumulation
of regarding what he was regarding. He said he did it all. He said he was not certain. He said
he must have it, he said that the way to say it again was not the only way, he said he would
not do that, he said that he had all the rest, he said that he had no way to come to that conclusion,
he said he might wear something to show anything, he said it was difficult, he said what he
said, he explained all that he answered, he did not recline, he was not concentrating everlasting
interruption, he did the same, he was always there, he did not die, he was not needing everything,
he was the one who did that which when it was seen was not what he said he denied. He was yielding.
He listened then. He did not change anything. He was necessary. He did not leave it all. He
did not give anything. He was there. He did all that. He saw the rest come to be gone. He was
not gone. He did not come to stay. He had the same.

One and here and there and somewhere and always separate and frequently not assembling one
and the others who were not the ones denying that, some did reply when they were not denying
answering. They said, each one of them, they said it all.

Many many tickle what is not ticklish and many tickle the rest when that is not the only way
to say that every bad one and every good one is the kind of a one to go away.

The argument that is the one to use when all argument is being used is the one that that one
uses who is that one.

All the way to keep away is the way to select all that is selected when what has been given
has been kept.

A dark and light place where the flowers are growing is the place where any one coming and
going could admire anything. This was not enough to make all the meaning there is when one
is that one and any one is some one. There is an intermediate way of saying good-day. There
is not a hot day that is so hot as the day that is hot enough so that the ones that are hot
are hot. The darkness that comes when the half hour that is beginning is not finished is not
the same darkness as the darkness that does not begin and is not dark. All the list that was
written is the list that is not shown. Everything is said and some one can listen.

It was not the best way that way which was the best way, the best way was the way which was
that way and that way was only that way as the way which was the way was not darting away.
There was a way. The best way was that way the way that was that way which was the best way.
All that came and sat and stood said something and this was not a darker way of their being
an only way than any other way.

He who was independent and afraid to say that the house was painted was independent and did
say the house was painted. The house was painted, who is afraid, that the house is painted
is not any more than being there where there is that house and the house is painted. This is
not all the way there is a way, there is more way than there has been too much way. This is
not the condition of not reminding every one of something.

An arrangement that followed remaining together was not the only arrangement every one made
who followed every other one. There was not every misunderstanding. There was no disposition
to resist the whole business of remaining being living.

Carting there where there was paper carting cloth there was not an occupation. Kindly asking
some one to be leaving was not an occupation. Nobody did it.

Hardly had one who was longer than the use of color hardly had he had he remained a long time
when he came to do what he did. He used some of that and then it did not happen that he intruded
remaining. He was the end of something.

All the many attractions of eating what is placed in a plate and put together is there when
there has been a cold winter and there has been enough money for that to continue to be winter.
It was not the mention of everything that meant that the change had not come, it was the beginning
of something that meant the change had not come. The rest followed later. It followed quickly
and there was the same half that together was not the whole. It was not expected. Any one refused
something.

A bargain is not a bargain if one giving is receiving and one receiving is giving. Every bargain
is the same when there are two and these two are the two who were the two who had been any
one and were then that one. He who had all the rest did not have enough and naturally he said
that he was delighted when he had an opportunity to see that he was there. He could not then
hear what he heard and he could see what he saw. Any one of them all was there and there were
enough there so that any one refused something and did not say no when they received all that
was offered. They did not refuse to mention everything. It ended then. That was so disappointing.

It was earnest to stay every day, to weigh every day, to work some day, it was earnest to say
that was all day when any day was the piece of a day when they did not stay where they would
stay. They were not all not gay. They were not gay.

They did lightly what was not lightly done and they spoke then, they had the reception of exchanging
something and they were meaning what was happening. They did not endow the rest with everything.
They had not all the change when they left each one where that one was when he began. They
did not manage to avoid all the pieces and they knew enough to be interested and they were
not foolish, they were not busy with nothing, they did the same, they had enough of a way,
they were not having any habit, they did it all, they said enough, they worked then, they arranged
what they came to be selecting to be arranging. They were not suffering in refusing what they
were not intending to be seeing. They were all there.

He who said something said it in the way that did not show all there was of what had to be.
He was not reckless. He was not uncertain. He said it all in explaining that which was there
and he explained it so that there could be that explanation. It was all there and complete.
He went on. He was not the half of all there was as there were some and he was the whole of
it all. That was not enough. Anything stopped. That was not undertaken. He had the meaning.

Conversation was not the reproduction of listening and talking and this was said and when there
was more there was some understanding of that.

It is apparent that when each one is sitting where it is cold that the lamp which is burning
is the lamp they are using. This has been and will be the habit that has not that meaning.

All the best that came when all that came was all that came was said when each one said that
they each read and said what they each said and they each read. The basket that did not remain
on the floor was not empty when all that was thrown away was put in it. The alarming way that
each one did not throw away what was taken away did not dissatisfy every one. There could be
conversation.

He said that he had put the piece that was there when he went away in the same place that it
was now when it was there. His wife said that she remembered something. He did not then say
more than he said. Not any one left the room. They all were busy.

He did not live by the light that there was when he went to live where he stayed some months.
He talked about everything. This was not needed then but it was a very good thing as a way
to begin and to have begun. He was satisfying.

The darkness was the same when he came in and when he went out and he talked about that when
he talked about everything. He said he had had a little girl. He said the whole family were
not there. He did not say that he needed everything. This was not what he said when he said
what he said and he said what he said. He was not the only one and yet that was enough, that
he was the one. There were some who said the same. He was not one.

Darkness is not black enough to have the same feeling that it has when not any one who is grieving
is saying that it is a peculiar thing to adopt a child that is born and then to keep her. It
was understood. Any one told the rest and it was not the only way to work every day and to
have the whole piece covered so as to be as it was gay. The last time that there was the whole
big piece was the time when the green and the blue and there was some red too was the time
when it was all largely covering what was not too pretty to be lost. It was then sold and everybody
was satisfied. Some said that to pay for it then meant that that was not the only way to keep
it a long time. A half of all that was said was said when the rest of what was paid was paid.
Any one was content. Some liked something.

The continuation was there and the last were not leading. This is not audacious. This is the
climax of having a cooler climate than there had been.

The summer sun was not shining and the winter was not congealing and the ardent expression
of satisfaction was not mystifying any one speaking the language that have meaning. Any language
is the same when they all speak a few words of some and some speak all the words they are using.
It was not mingling beginning and ending. It was not disturbing spending the afternoon and
the evening. It was not always disturbing the morning. Enough had been received so that very
many who came sat together. This did not originate sneezing. This did quiet moving. This did
stimulate renewing the breathing. They were all there. They came on time. They were all there
the ones who claimed to be the half of everything. They did not refuse to discriminate. They
shown out when they did not put there the thoughts that were the first and then the next and
then the last. They remained away when they had all that day. They did not see the remainder
who did not stay. They went away. Some can come any day. That is always a piece of the half
that is distributing everything. Each one was there. The union was not confusion. They had
all that they had when they saw each other. They mentioned something.

He and he was not the lonely one when he ate all that he ate and he was not alone, he was not
the happy one when he had what he had when he was happily there and sleeping some, he and he
was not demeaning himself when he came again and he was always coming and was talking, he was
not sacrificing when he was suffering and he was suffering resolution and undertaking and enlarging
and he was not the peculiarly losing kind of a one any one was who was not continuing increasing,
he was the one and he was the only one and he was the one and meeting was meeting and summering
was summering and wintering was wintering and a flower garden was a flower garden; he was one
and the neighbors were not leaving and he was not leaving and he was not destroying the rest
and they were not destroying anything, he was one and he said the same and he said it all and
he changed the whole when he had the dog that he had when he went and he had the dog that he
had when he came and he did not stay that a dog could stay and he did not stay when he went
away. He was not lonely. He was not stationary. He was not escaping. He was not busy. He was
not walking. He was not running. He said he slept pretty well. He said that what he did was
like that which was all the same and he said he knew it. He said he showed the rest when everybody
turned the rest of it into the light where it was bright and he was bright and he said he told
the friends who were together that he had not made the weather. He was not angry.

If the covered space has the same size as the little pieces that one left then the trouble
when an explanation is due is not in listening when there is repeating. They were not anonymous.

