Her method would have been to have acted irrevocably on the spot, and sought ways and means
afterwards. Thorpe's, however, was to perfect all his plans before making the first step.

Wallace Carpenter was not in town. Before the letter had followed him to his new address, and
the answer had returned, a week had passed. Of course the money was gladly put at Thorpe's
disposal. The latter at once interviewed his sister.

"Helen," he said, "I have made arrangements for some money. What would you like to do this year?"

She raised her head and looked at him with clear bright gaze. If he could so easily raise the
money, why had he not done so before? He knew how much she wanted it. Her happiness did not
count. Only when his quixotic ideas of family honor were attacked did he bestir himself.

"I am going to Uncle Amos's," she replied distinctly.

"What?" asked Thorpe incredulously.

For answer she pointed to a letter lying open on the table. Thorpe took it and read:

"My dear Niece:

"Both Mrs. Thorpe and myself more than rejoice that time and reflection have removed that,
I must confess, natural prejudice which the unfortunate family affair, to which I will not
allude, raised in your mind against us. As we said long ago, our home is your's when you may
wish to make it so. You state your present readiness to come immediately. Unless you wire to
the contrary, we shall expect you next Tuesday evening on the four-forty train. I shall be
at the Central Station myself to meet you. If your brother is now with you, I should be pleased
to see him also, and will be most happy to give him a position with the firm.

"Aff. your uncle,

"Amos Thorpe.

"New York, June 6, 1883."

On finishing the last paragraph the reader crumpled the letter and threw it into the grate.

"I am sorry you did that, Helen," said he, "but I don't blame you, and it can't be helped.
We won't need to take advantage of his 'kind offer' now."

"I intend to do so, however," replied the girl coldly.

"What do you mean?"

"I mean," she cried, "that I am sick of waiting on your good pleasure. I waited, and slaved,
and stood unbearable things for two years. I did it cheerfully. And in return I don't get a
civil word, not a decent explanation, not even a--caress," she fairly sobbed out the last word.
"I can't stand it any longer. I have tried and tried and tried, and then when I've come to
you for the littlest word of encouragement, you have pecked at me with those stingy little
kisses, and have told me I was young and ought to finish my education. You put me in uncongenial
surroundings, and go off into the woods camping yourself. You refuse me money enough to live
in a three-dollar boarding-house, and you buy expensive rifles and fishing tackle for yourself.
You can't afford to send me away somewhere for the summer, but you bring me back gee-gaws you
have happened to fancy, worth a month's board in the country. You haven't a cent when it is
a question of what I want; but you raise money quick enough when your old family is insulted.
Isn't it my family too? And then you blame me because, after waiting in vain two years for
you to do something, I start out to do the best I can for myself. I'm not of age but you're
not my guardian!"

During this long speech Thorpe had stood motionless, growing paler and paler. Like most noble
natures, when absolutely in the right, he was incapable of defending himself against misunderstandings.
He was too wounded; he was hurt to the soul.

"You know that is not true, Helen," he replied, almost sternly.

"It IS true!" she asseverated, "and I'm THROUGH!"

"It's a little hard," said Thorpe passing his hand wearily before his eyes, "to work hard this
way for years, and then--"

She laughed with a hard little note of scorn.

"Helen," said Thorpe with new energy, "I forbid you to have anything to do with Amos Thorpe.
I think he is a scoundrel and a sneak."

"What grounds have you to think so?"

"None," he confessed, "that is, nothing definite. But I know men; and I know his type. Some
day I shall be able to prove something. I do not wish you to have anything to do with him."

"I shall do as I please," she replied, crossing her hands behind her.

Thorpe's eyes darkened.

"We have talked this over a great many times," he warned, "and you've always agreed with me.
Remember, you owe something to the family."

"Most of the family seem to owe something," she replied with a flippant laugh. "I'm sure I
didn't choose the family. If I had, I'd have picked out a better one!"

The flippancy was only a weapon which she used unconsciously, blindly, in her struggle. The
man could not know this. His face hardened, and his voice grew cold.

"You may take your choice, Helen," he said formally. "If you go into the household of Amos
Thorpe, if you deliberately prefer your comfort to your honor, we will have nothing more in
common."

They faced each other with the cool, deadly glance of the race, so similar in appearance but
so unlike in nature.

"I, too, offer you a home, such as it is," repeated the man. "Choose!"

At the mention of the home for which means were so quickly forthcoming when Thorpe, not she,
considered it needful, the girl's eyes flashed. She stooped and dragged violently from beneath
the bed a flat steamer trunk, the lid of which she threw open. A dress lay on the bed. With
a fine dramatic gesture she folded the garment and laid it in the bottom of the trunk. Then
she knelt, and without vouchsafing another glance at her brother standing rigid by the door,
she began feverishly to arrange the folds.

The choice was made. He turned and went out.

Chapter XXXIV

With Thorpe there could be no half-way measure. He saw that the rupture with his sister was
final, and the thrust attained him in one of his few unprotected points. It was not as though
he felt either himself or his sister consciously in the wrong. He acquitted her of all fault,
except as to the deadly one of misreading and misunderstanding. The fact argued not a perversion
but a lack in her character. She was other than he had thought her.

As for himself, he had schemed, worked, lived only for her. He had come to her from the battle
expecting rest and refreshment. To the world he had shown the hard, unyielding front of the
unemotional; he had looked ever keenly outward; he had braced his muscles in the constant tension
of endeavor. So much the more reason why, in the hearts of the few he loved, he, the man of
action, should find repose; the man of sternness, should discover that absolute peace of the
spirit in which not the slightest motion of the will is necessary, the man of repression should
be permitted affectionate, care-free expansion of the natural affection, of the full sympathy
which will understand and not mistake for weakness. Instead of this, he was forced into refusing
where he would rather have given; into denying where he would rather have assented; and finally
into commanding where he longed most ardently to lay aside the cloak of authority. His motives
were misread; his intentions misjudged; his love doubted.

But worst of all, Thorpe's mind could see no possibility of an explanation. If she could not
see of her own accord how much he loved her, surely it was a hopeless task to attempt an explanation
through mere words. If, after all, she was capable of misconceiving the entire set of his motives
during the past two years, expostulation would be futile. In his thoughts of her he fell into
a great spiritual dumbness. Never, even in his moments of most theoretical imaginings, did
he see himself setting before her fully and calmly the hopes and ambitions of which she had
been the mainspring. And before a reconciliation, many such rehearsals must take place in the
secret recesses of a man's being.

Thorpe did not cry out, nor confide in a friend, nor do anything even so mild as pacing the
floor. The only outward and visible sign a close observer might have noted was a certain dumb
pain lurking in the depths of his eyes like those of a wounded spaniel. He was hurt, but did
not understand. He suffered in silence, but without anger. This is at once the noblest and
the most pathetic of human suffering.

At first the spring of his life seemed broken. He did not care for money; and at present disappointment
had numbed his interest in the game. It seemed hardly worth the candle.

Then in a few days, after his thoughts had ceased to dwell constantly on the one subject, he
began to look about him mentally. Beneath his other interests he still felt constantly a dull
ache, something unpleasant, uncomfortable. Strangely enough it was almost identical in quality
with the uneasiness that always underlay his surface-thoughts when he was worried about some
detail of his business. Unconsciously,--again as in his business,--the combative instinct aroused.
In lack of other object on which to expend itself, Thorpe's fighting spirit turned with energy
to the subject of the lawsuit.

Under the unwonted stress of the psychological condition just described, he thought at white
heat. His ideas were clear, and followed each other quickly, almost feverishly.

After his sister left the Renwicks, Thorpe himself went to Detroit, where he interviewed at
once Northrop, the brilliant young lawyer whom the firm had engaged to defend its case.

"I'm afraid we have no show," he replied to Thorpe's question. "You see, you fellows were on
the wrong side of the fence in trying to enforce the law yourselves. Of course you may well
say that justice was all on your side. That does not count. The only recourse recognized for
injustice lies in the law courts. I'm afraid you are due to lose your case."

"Well," said Thorpe, "they can't prove much damage."

"I don't expect that they will be able to procure a very heavy judgment," replied Northrop.
"The facts I shall be able to adduce will cut down damages. But the costs will be very heavy."

"Yes," agreed Thorpe.

"And," then pursued Northrop with a dry smile, "they practically own Sherman. You may be in
for contempt of court at their instigation. As I understand it, they are trying rather to injure
you than to get anything out of it themselves."

"That's it," nodded Thorpe.

"In other words, it's a case for compromise."

"Just what I wanted to get at," said Thorpe with satisfaction. "Now answer me a question. Suppose
a man injures Government or State land by trespass. The land is afterwards bought by another
party. Has the latter any claim for damage against the trespasser? Understand me, the purchaser
bought AFTER the trespass was committed."

"Certainly," answered Northrop without hesitation.

"Provided suit is brought within six years of the time the trespass was committed."

"Good! Now see here. These M. & D. people stole about a section of Government pine up on that
river, and I don't believe they've ever bought in the land it stood on. In fact I don't believe
they suspect that anyone knows they've been stealing. How would it do, if I were to buy that
section at the Land Office, and threaten to sue them for the value of the pine that originally
stood on it?"

The lawyer's eyes glimmered behind the lenses of his pince-nez; but, with the caution of the
professional man he made no other sign of satisfaction.

"It would do very well indeed," he replied, "but you'd have to prove they did the cutting,
and you'll have to pay experts to estimate the probable amount of the timber. Have you the
description of the section?"

"No," responded Thorpe, "but I can get it; and I can pick up witnesses from the woodsmen as
to the cutting."

"The more the better. It is rather easy to discredit the testimony of one or two. How much,
on a broad guess, would you estimate the timber to come to?"

"There ought to be about eight or ten million," guessed Thorpe after an instant's silence,
"worth in the stump anywhere from sixteen to twenty thousand dollars. It would cost me only
eight hundred to buy it."

"Do so, by all means. Get your documents and evidence all in shape, and let me have them. I'll
see that the suit is discontinued then. Will you sue them?"

"No, I think not," replied Thorpe. "I'll just hold it back as a sort of club to keep them in line."

The next day, he took the train north. He had something definite and urgent to do, and, as
always with practical affairs demanding attention and resource, he threw himself whole-souled
into the accomplishment of it. By the time he had bought the sixteen forties constituting the
section, searched out a dozen witnesses to the theft, and spent a week with the Marquette expert
in looking over the ground, he had fallen into the swing of work again. His experience still
ached; but dully.

Only now he possessed no interests outside of those in the new country; no affections save
the half-protecting, good-natured comradeship with Wallace, the mutual self-reliant respect
that subsisted between Tim Shearer and himself, and the dumb, unreasoning dog-liking he shared
with Injin Charley. His eye became clearer and steadier; his methods more simple and direct.
The taciturnity of his mood redoubled in thickness. He was less charitable to failure on the
part of subordinates. And the new firm on the Ossawinamakee prospered.

Chapter XXXV

Five years passed.

In that time Thorpe had succeeded in cutting a hundred million feet of pine. The money received
for this had all been turned back into the Company's funds. From a single camp of twenty-five
men with ten horses and a short haul of half a mile, the concern had increased to six large,
well-equipped communities of eighty to a hundred men apiece, using nearly two hundred horses,
and hauling as far as eight or nine miles.

Near the port stood a mammoth sawmill capable of taking care of twenty-two million feet a year,
about which a lumber town had sprung up. Lake schooners lay in a long row during the summer
months, while busy loaders passed the planks from one to the other into the deep holds. Besides
its original holding, the company had acquired about a hundred and fifty million more, back
near the headwaters of tributaries to the Ossawinamakee. In the spring and early summer months,
the drive was a wonderful affair.

During the four years in which the Morrison & Daly Company shared the stream with Thorpe, the
two firms lived in complete amity and understanding. Northrop had played his cards skillfully.
The older capitalists had withdrawn suit. Afterwards they kept scrupulously within their rights,
and saw to it that no more careless openings were left for Thorpe's shrewdness. They were keen
enough business men, but had made the mistake, common enough to established power, of underrating
the strength of an apparently insignificant opponent. Once they understood Thorpe's capacity,
that young man had no more chance to catch them napping.

And as the younger man, on his side, never attempted to overstep his own rights, the interests
of the rival firms rarely clashed. As to the few disputes that did arise, Thorpe found Mr.
Daly singularly anxious to please. In the desire was no friendliness, however. Thorpe was watchful
for treachery, and could hardly believe the affair finished when at the end of the fourth year
the M. & D. sold out the remainder of its pine to a firm from Manistee, and transferred its
operations to another stream a few miles east, where it had acquired more considerable holdings.

"They're altogether too confounded anxious to help us on that freight, Wallace," said Thorpe
wrinkling his brow uneasily. "I don't like it. It isn't natural."

"No," laughed Wallace, "neither is it natural for a dog to draw a sledge. But he does it--when
he has to. They're afraid of you, Harry: that's all."

Thorpe shook his head, but had to acknowledge that he could evidence no grounds for his mistrust.

The conversation took place at Camp One, which was celebrated in three states. Thorpe had set
out to gather around him a band of good woodsmen. Except on a pinch he would employ no others.

"I don't care if I get in only two thousand feet this winter, and if a boy does that," he answered
Shearer's expostulations, "it's got to be a good boy."

The result of his policy began to show even in the second year. Men were a little proud to
say that they had put in a winter at "Thorpe's One." Those who had worked there during the
first year were loyally enthusiastic over their boss's grit and resourcefulness, their camp's
order, their cook's good "grub." As they were authorities, others perforce had to accept the
dictum. There grew a desire among the better class to see what Thorpe's "One" might be like.
In the autumn Harry had more applicants than he knew what to do with. Eighteen of the old men
returned. He took them all, but when it came to distribution, three found themselves assigned
to one or the other of the new camps. And quietly the rumor gained that these three had shown
the least willing spirit during the previous winter. The other fifteen were sobered to the
industry which their importance as veterans might have impaired.

Tim Shearer was foreman of Camp One; Scotty Parsons was drafted from the veterans to take charge
of Two; Thorpe engaged two men known to Tim to boss Three and Four. But in selecting the "push"
for Five he displayed most strikingly his keen appreciation of a man's relation to his environment.
He sought out John Radway and induced him to accept the commission.

"You can do it, John," said he, "and I know it. I want you to try; and if you don't make her
go, I'll call it nobody's fault but my own."

"I don't see how you dare risk it, after that Cass Branch deal, Mr. Thorpe," replied Radway,
almost brokenly. "But I would like to tackle it, I'm dead sick of loafing. Sometimes it seems
like I'd die, if I don't get out in the woods again."

"We'll call it a deal, then," answered Thorpe.

The result proved his sagacity. Radway was one of the best foremen in the outfit. He got more
out of his men, he rose better to emergencies, and he accomplished more with the same resources
than any of the others, excepting Tim Shearer. As long as the work was done for someone else,
he was capable and efficient. Only when he was called upon to demand on his own account, did
the paralyzing shyness affect him.

But the one feature that did more to attract the very best element among woodsmen, and so make
possible the practice of Thorpe's theory of success, was Camp One. The men's accommodations
at the other five were no different and but little better than those in a thousand other typical
lumber camps of both peninsulas. They slept in box-like bunks filled with hay or straw over
which blankets were spread; they sat on a narrow hard bench or on the floor; they read by the
dim light of a lamp fastened against the big cross beam; they warmed themselves at a huge iron
stove in the center of the room around which suspended wires and poles offered space for the
drying of socks; they washed their clothes when the mood struck them. It was warm and comparatively
clean. But it was dark, without ornament, cheerless.

The lumber-jack never expects anything different. In fact, if he were pampered to the extent
of ordinary comforts, he would be apt at once to conclude himself indispensable; whereupon
he would become worthless.

Thorpe, however, spent a little money--not much--and transformed Camp One. Every bunk was provided
with a tick, which the men could fill with hay, balsam, or hemlock, as suited them. Cheap but
attractive curtains on wires at once brightened the room and shut each man's "bedroom" from
the main hall. The deacon seat remained but was supplemented by a half-dozen simple and comfortable
chairs. In the center of the room stood a big round table over which glowed two hanging lamps.
The table was littered with papers and magazines. Home life was still further suggested by
a canary bird in a gilt cage, a sleepy cat, and two pots of red geraniums. Thorpe had further
imported a washerwoman who dwelt in a separate little cabin under the hill. She washed the
men's belongings at twenty-five cents a week, which amount Thorpe deducted from each man's
wages, whether he had the washing done or not. This encouraged cleanliness. Phil scrubbed out
every day, while the men were in the woods.

Such was Thorpe's famous Camp One in the days of its splendor. Old woodsmen will still tell
you about it, with a longing reminiscent glimmer in the corners of their eyes as they recall
its glories and the men who worked in it. To have "put in" a winter in Camp One was the mark
of a master; and the ambition of every raw recruit to the forest. Probably Thorpe's name is
remembered to-day more on account of the intrepid, skillful, loyal men his strange genius gathered
about it, than for the herculean feat of having carved a great fortune from the wilderness
in but five years' time.

But Camp One was a privilege. A man entered it only after having proved himself; he remained
in it only as long as his efficiency deserved the honor. Its members were invariably recruited
from one of the other four camps; never from applicants who had not been in Thorpe's employ.
A raw man was sent to Scotty, or Jack Hyland, or Radway, or Kerlie. There he was given a job,
if he happened to suit, and men were needed. By and by, perhaps, when a member of Camp One
fell sick or was given his time, Tim Shearer would send word to one of the other five that
he needed an axman or a sawyer, or a loader, or teamster, as the case might be. The best man
in the other camps was sent up.

So Shearer was foreman of a picked crew. Probably no finer body of men was ever gathered at
one camp. In them one could study at his best the American pioneer. It was said at that time
that you had never seen logging done as it should be until you had visited Thorpe's Camp One
on the Ossawinamakee.

Of these men Thorpe demanded one thing--success. He tried never to ask of them anything he
did not believe to be thoroughly possible; but he expected always that in some manner, by hook
or crook, they would carry the affair through. No matter how good the excuse, it was never
accepted. Accidents would happen, there as elsewhere; a way to arrive in spite of them always
exists, if only a man is willing to use his wits, unflagging energy, and time. Bad luck is
a reality; but much of what is called bad luck is nothing but a want of careful foresight,
and Thorpe could better afford to be harsh occasionally to the genuine for the sake of eliminating
the false. If a man failed, he left Camp One.

The procedure was very simple. Thorpe never explained his reasons even to Shearer.

"Ask Tom to step in a moment," he requested of the latter.

"Tom," he said to that individual, "I think I can use you better at Four. Report to Kerlie there."

And strangely enough, few even of these proud and independent men ever asked for their time,
or preferred to quit rather than to work up again to the glories of their prize camp.

For while new recruits were never accepted at Camp One, neither was a man ever discharged there.
He was merely transferred to one of the other foremen.

It is necessary to be thus minute in order that the reader may understand exactly the class
of men Thorpe had about his immediate person. Some of them had the reputation of being the
hardest citizens in three States, others were mild as turtle doves. They were all pioneers.
They had the independence, the unabashed eye, the insubordination even, of the man who has
drawn his intellectual and moral nourishment at the breast of a wild nature. They were afraid
of nothing alive. From no one, were he chore-boy or president, would they take a single word--with
the exception always of Tim Shearer and Thorpe.

The former they respected because in their picturesque guild he was a master craftsman. The
latter they adored and quoted and fought for in distant saloons, because he represented to
them their own ideal, what they would be if freed from the heavy gyves of vice and executive
incapacity that weighed them down.

And they were loyal. It was a point of honor with them to stay "until the last dog was hung."
He who deserted in the hour of need was not only a renegade, but a fool. For he thus earned
a magnificent licking if ever he ran up against a member of the "Fighting Forty." A band of
soldiers they were, ready to attempt anything their commander ordered, devoted, enthusiastically
admiring. And, it must be confessed, they were also somewhat on the order of a band of pirates.
Marquette thought so each spring after the drive, when, hat-tilted, they surged swearing and
shouting down to Denny Hogan's saloon. Denny had to buy new fixtures when they went away; but
it was worth it.

Proud! it was no name for it. Boast! the fame of Camp One spread abroad over the land, and
was believed in to about twenty per cent of the anecdotes detailed of it--which was near enough
the actual truth. Anecdotes disbelieved, the class of men from it would have given it a reputation.
The latter was varied enough, in truth. Some people thought Camp One must be a sort of hell-hole
of roaring, fighting devils. Others sighed and made rapid calculations of the number of logs
they could put in, if only they could get hold of help like that.

Thorpe himself, of course, made his headquarters at Camp One. Thence he visited at least once
a week all the other camps, inspecting the minutest details, not only of the work, but of the
everyday life. For this purpose he maintained a light box sleigh and pair of bays, though often,
when the snow became deep, he was forced to snowshoes.

During the five years he had never crossed the Straits of Mackinaw. The rupture with his sister
had made repugnant to him all the southern country. He preferred to remain in the woods. All
winter long he was more than busy at his logging. Summers he spent at the mill. Occasionally
he visited Marquette, but always on business. He became used to seeing only the rough faces
of men. The vision of softer graces and beauties lost its distinctness before this strong,
hardy northland, whose gentler moods were like velvet over iron, or like its own summer leaves
veiling the eternal darkness of the pines.

He was happy because he was too busy to be anything else. The insistent need of success which
he had created for himself, absorbed all other sentiments. He demanded it of others rigorously.
He could do no less than demand it of himself. It had practically become one of his tenets
of belief. The chief end of any man, as he saw it, was to do well and successfully what his
life found ready. Anything to further this fore-ordained activity was good; anything else was
bad. These thoughts, aided by a disposition naturally fervent and single in purpose, hereditarily
ascetic and conscientious--for his mother was of old New England stock--gave to him in the
course of six years' striving a sort of daily and familiar religion to which he conformed his life.

Success, success, success. Nothing could be of more importance. Its attainment argued a man's
efficiency in the Scheme of Things, his worthy fulfillment of the end for which a divine Providence
had placed him on earth. Anything that interfered with it--personal comfort, inclination, affection,
desire, love of ease, individual liking,--was bad.

Luckily for Thorpe's peace of mind, his habit of looking on men as things helped him keep to
this attitude of mind. His lumbermen were tools,--good, sharp, efficient tools, to be sure,
but only because he had made them so. Their loyalty aroused in his breast no pride nor gratitude.
He expected loyalty. He would have discharged at once a man who did not show it. The same with
zeal, intelligence, effort--they were the things he took for granted. As for the admiration
and affection which the Fighting Forty displayed for him personally, he gave not a thought
to it. And the men knew it, and loved him the more from the fact.

Thorpe cared for just three people, and none of them happened to clash with his machine. They
were Wallace Carpenter, little Phil, and Injin Charley.

Wallace, for reasons already explained at length, was always personally agreeable to Thorpe.
Latterly, since the erection of the mill, he had developed unexpected acumen in the disposal
of the season's cut to wholesale dealers in Chicago. Nothing could have been better for the
firm. Thereafter he was often in the woods, both for pleasure and to get his partner's ideas
on what the firm would have to offer. The entire responsibility at the city end of the business
was in his hands.

Injin Charley continued to hunt and trap in the country round about. Between him and Thorpe
had grown a friendship the more solid in that its increase had been mysteriously without outward
cause. Once or twice a month the lumberman would snowshoe down to the little cabin at the forks.
Entering, he would nod briefly and seat himself on a cracker-box.

"How do, Charley," said he.

"How do," replied Charley.

They filled pipes and smoked. At rare intervals one of them made a remark, tersely,

"Catch um three beaver las' week," remarked Charley.

"Good haul," commented Thorpe.

Or:

"I saw a mink track by the big boulder," offered Thorpe.

"H'm!" responded Charley in a long-drawn falsetto whine.

Yet somehow the men came to know each other better and better; and each felt that in an emergency
he could depend on the other to the uttermost in spite of the difference in race.

As for Phil, he was like some strange, shy animal, retaining all its wild instincts, but led
by affection to become domestic. He drew the water, cut the wood, none better. In the evening
he played atrociously his violin--none worse--bending his great white brow forward with the
wolf-glare in his eyes, swaying his shoulders with a fierce delight in the subtle dissonances,
the swaggering exactitude of time, the vulgar rendition of the horrible tunes he played. And
often he went into the forest and gazed wondering through his liquid poet's eyes at occult
things. Above all, he worshipped Thorpe. And in turn the lumberman accorded him a good-natured
affection. He was as indispensable to Camp One as the beagles.

And the beagles were most indispensable. No one could have got along without them. In the course
of events and natural selection they had increased to eleven. At night they slept in the men's
camp underneath or very near the stove. By daylight in the morning they were clamoring at the
door. Never had they caught a hare. Never for a moment did their hopes sink. The men used sometimes
to amuse themselves by refusing the requested exit. The little dogs agonized. They leaped and
yelped, falling over each other like a tangle of angleworms. Then finally, when the door at
last flung wide, they precipitated themselves eagerly and silently through the opening. A few
moments later a single yelp rose in the direction of the swamp; the band took up the cry. From
then until dark the glade was musical with baying. At supper time they returned straggling,
their expression pleased, six inches of red tongue hanging from the corners of their mouths,
ravenously ready for supper.

Strangely enough the big white hares never left the swamp. Perhaps the same one was never chased
two days in succession. Or it is possible that the quarry enjoyed the harmless game as much
as did the little dogs.

Once only while the snow lasted was the hunt abandoned for a few days. Wallace Carpenter announced
his intention of joining forces with the diminutive hounds.

"It's a shame, so it is, doggies!" he laughed at the tried pack. "We'll get one to-morrow."

So he took his shotgun to the swamp, and after a half hour's wait, succeeded in killing the
hare. From that moment he was the hero of those ecstacized canines. They tangled about him
everywhere. He hardly dared take a step for fear of crushing one of the open faces and expectant,
pleading eyes looking up at him. It grew to be a nuisance. Wallace always claimed his trip
was considerably shortened because he could not get away from his admirers.

Chapter XXXVI

Financially the Company was rated high, and yet was heavily in debt. This condition of affairs
by no means constitutes an anomaly in the lumbering business.

The profits of the first five years had been immediately reinvested in the business. Thorpe,
with the foresight that had originally led him into this new country, saw farther than the
instant's gain. He intended to establish in a few years more a big plant which would be returning
benefices in proportion not only to the capital originally invested, but also in ratio to the
energy, time, and genius he had himself expended. It was not the affair of a moment. It was
not the affair of half-measures, of timidity.

Thorpe knew that he could play safely, cutting a few millions a year, expanding cautiously.
By this method he would arrive, but only after a long period.

Or he could do as many other firms have done; start on borrowed money.

In the latter case he had only one thing to fear, and that was fire. Every cent, and many times
over, of his obligations would be represented in the state of raw material. All he had to do
was to cut it out by the very means which the yearly profits of his business would enable him
to purchase. For the moment, he owed a great deal; without the shadow of a doubt mere industry
would clear his debt, and leave him with substantial acquisitions created, practically, from
nothing but his own abilities. The money obtained from his mortgages was a tool which he picked
up an instant, used to fashion one of his own, and laid aside.

Every autumn the Company found itself suddenly in easy circumstances. At any moment that Thorpe
had chosen to be content with the progress made, he could have, so to speak, declared dividends
with his partner. Instead of undertaking more improvements, for part of which he borrowed some
money, he could have divided the profits of the season's cut. But this he was not yet ready to do.

He had established five more camps, he had acquired over a hundred and fifty million more of
timber lying contiguous to his own, he had built and equipped a modern high-efficiency mill,
he had constructed a harbor break-water and the necessary booms, he had bought a tug, built
a boarding-house. All this costs money. He wished now to construct a logging railroad. Then
he promised himself and Wallace that they would be ready to commence paying operations.

The logging railroad was just then beginning to gain recognition. A few miles of track, a locomotive,
and a number of cars consisting uniquely of wheels and "bunks," or cross beams on which to
chain the logs, and a fairly well-graded right-of-way comprised the outfit. Its use obviated
the necessity of driving the river--always an expensive operation. Often, too, the decking
at the skidways could be dispensed with; and the sleigh hauls, if not entirely superseded for
the remote districts, were entirely so in the country for a half mile on either side of the
track, and in any case were greatly shortened. There obtained, too, the additional advantage
of being able to cut summer and winter alike. Thus, the plant once established, logging by
railroad was not only easier but cheaper. Of late years it has come into almost universal use
in big jobs and wherever the nature of the country will permit. The old-fashioned, picturesque
ice-road sleigh-haul will last as long as north-woods lumbering,--even in the railroad districts,--but
the locomotive now does the heavy work.

With the capital to be obtained from the following winter's product, Thorpe hoped to be able
to establish a branch which should run from a point some two miles behind Camp One, to a "dump"
a short distance above the mill. For this he had made all the estimates, and even the preliminary
survey. He was therefore the more grievously disappointed, when Wallace Carpenter made it impossible
for him to do so.

He was sitting in the mill-office one day about the middle of July. Herrick, the engineer,
had just been in. He could not keep the engine in order, although Thorpe knew that it could
be done.

"I've sot up nights with her," said Herrick, "and she's no go. I think I can fix her when my
head gets all right. I got headachy lately. And somehow that last lot of Babbit metal didn't
seem to act just right."

Thorpe looked out of the window, tapping his desk slowly with the end of a lead pencil.

"Collins," said he to the bookkeeper, without raising his voice or altering his position, "make
out Herrick's time."

The man stood there astonished.

"But I had hard luck, sir," he expostulated. "She'll go all right now, I think."

Thorpe turned and looked at him.

"Herrick," he said, not unkindly, "this is the second time this summer the mill has had to
close early on account of that engine. We have supplied you with everything you asked for.
If you can't do it, we shall have to get a man who can."

"But I had--" began the man once more.

"I ask every man to succeed in what I give him to do," interrupted Thorpe. "If he has a headache,
he must brace up or quit. If his Babbit doesn't act just right he must doctor it up; or get
some more, even if he has to steal it. If he has hard luck, he must sit up nights to better
it. It's none of my concern how hard or how easy a time a man has in doing what I tell him
to. I EXPECT HIM TO DO IT. If I have to do all a man's thinking for him, I may as well hire
Swedes and be done with it. I have too many details to attend to already without bothering
about excuses."

The man stood puzzling over this logic.

"I ain't got any other job," he ventured.

"You can go to piling on the docks," replied Thorpe, "if you want to."

Thorpe was thus explicit because he rather liked Herrick. It was hard for him to discharge
the man peremptorily, and he proved the need of justifying himself in his own eyes.

Now he sat back idly in the clean painted little room with the big square desk and the three
chairs. Through the door he could see Collins, perched on a high stool before the shelf-like
desk. From the open window came the clear, musical note of the circular saw, the fresh aromatic
smell of new lumber, the bracing air from Superior sparkling in the offing. He felt tired.
In rare moments such as these, when the muscles of his striving relaxed, his mind turned to
the past. Old sorrows rose before him and looked at him with their sad eyes; the sorrows that
had helped to make him what he was. He wondered where his sister was. She would be twenty-two
years old now. A tenderness, haunting, tearful, invaded his heart. He suffered. At such moments
the hard shell of his rough woods life seemed to rend apart. He longed with a great longing
for sympathy, for love, for the softer influences that cradle even warriors between the clangors
of the battles.

The outer door, beyond the cage behind which Collins and his shelf desk were placed, flew open.
Thorpe heard a brief greeting, and Wallace Carpenter stood before him.

"Why, Wallace, I didn't know you were coming!" began Thorpe, and stopped. The boy, usually
so fresh and happily buoyant, looked ten years older. Wrinkles had gathered between his eyes.
"Why, what's the matter?" cried Thorpe.

He rose swiftly and shut the door into the outer office. Wallace seated himself mechanically.

"Everything! everything!" he said in despair. "I've been a fool! I've been blind!"

So bitter was his tone that Thorpe was startled. The lumberman sat down on the other side of
the desk.

"That'll do, Wallace," he said sharply. "Tell me briefly what is the matter."

"I've been speculating!" burst out the boy.

"Ah!" said his partner.

"At first I bought only dividend-paying stocks outright. Then I bought for a rise, but still
outright. Then I got in with a fellow who claimed to know all about it. I bought on a margin.
There came a slump. I met the margins because I am sure there will be a rally, but now all
my fortune is in the thing. I'm going to be penniless. I'll lose it all."

"Ah!" said Thorpe.

"And the name of Carpenter is so old-established, so honorable!" cried the unhappy boy, "and
my sister!"

"Easy!" warned Thorpe. "Being penniless isn't the worst thing that can happen to a man."

"No; but I am in debt," went on the boy more calmly. "I have given notes. When they come due,
I'm a goner."

"How much?" asked Thorpe laconically.

"Thirty thousand dollars."

"Well, you have that amount in this firm."

"What do you mean?"

"If you want it, you can have it."

Wallace considered a moment.

"That would leave me without a cent," he replied.

"But it would save your commercial honor."

"Harry," cried Wallace suddenly, "couldn't this firm go on my note for thirty thousand more?
Its credit is good, and that amount would save my margins."

"You are partner," replied Thorpe, "your signature is as good as mine in this firm."

"But you know I wouldn't do it without your consent," replied Wallace reproachfully. "Oh, Harry!"
cried the boy, "when you needed the amount, I let you have it!"

Thorpe smiled.

"You know you can have it, if it's to be had, Wallace. I wasn't hesitating on that account.
I was merely trying to figure out where we can raise such a sum as sixty thousand dollars.
We haven't got it."

"But you'll never have to pay it," assured Wallace eagerly. "If I can save my margins, I'll
be all right."

"A man has to figure on paying whatever he puts his signature to," asserted Thorpe. "I can
give you our note payable at the end of a year. Then I'll hustle in enough timber to make up
the amount. It means we don't get our railroad, that's all."

"I knew you'd help me out. Now it's all right," said Wallace, with a relieved air.

Thorpe shook his head. He was already trying to figure how to increase his cut to thirty million
feet.

"I'll do it," he muttered to himself, after Wallace had gone out to visit the mill. "I've been
demanding success of others for a good many years; now I'll demand it of myself."

PART IV. THORPE'S DREAM GIRL

Chapter XXXVII

The moment had struck for the woman. Thorpe did not know it, but it was true. A solitary, brooding
life in the midst of grand surroundings, an active, strenuous life among great responsibilities,
a starved, hungry life of the affections whence even the sister had withdrawn her love,--all
these had worked unobtrusively towards the formation of a single psychological condition. Such
a moment comes to every man. In it he realizes the beauties, the powers, the vastnesses which
unconsciously his being has absorbed. They rise to the surface as a need, which, being satisfied,
is projected into the visible world as an ideal to be worshipped. Then is happiness and misery
beside which the mere struggle to dominate men becomes trivial, the petty striving with the
forces of nature seems a little thing. And the woman he at that time meets takes on the qualities
of the dream; she is more than woman, less than goddess; she is the best of that man made visible.

Thorpe found himself for the first time filled with the spirit of restlessness. His customary
iron evenness of temper was gone, so that he wandered quickly from one detail of his work to
another, without seeming to penetrate below the surface-need of any one task. Out of the present
his mind was always escaping to a mystic fourth dimension which he did not understand. But
a week before, he had felt himself absorbed in the component parts of his enterprise, the totality
of which arched far over his head, shutting out the sky. Now he was outside of it. He had,
without his volition, abandoned the creator's standpoint of the god at the heart of his work.
It seemed as important, as great to him, but somehow it had taken on a strange solidarity,
as though he had left it a plastic beginning and returned to find it hardened into the shapes
of finality. He acknowledged it admirable,--and wondered how he had ever accomplished it! He
confessed that it should be finished as it had begun,--and could not discover in himself the
Titan who had watched over its inception.

Thorpe took this state of mind much to heart, and in combating it expended more energy than
would have sufficed to accomplish the work. Inexorably he held himself to the task. He filled
his mind full of lumbering. The millions along the bank on section nine must be cut and travoyed
directly to the rollways. It was a shame that the necessity should arise. From section nine
Thorpe had hoped to lighten the expenses when finally he should begin operations on the distant
and inaccessible headwaters of French Creek. Now there was no help for it. The instant necessity
was to get thirty millions of pine logs down the river before Wallace Carpenter's notes came
due. Every other consideration had to yield before that. Fifteen millions more could be cut
on seventeen, nineteen, and eleven,--regions hitherto practically untouched,--by the men in
the four camps inland. Camp One and Camp Three could attend to section nine.

These were details to which Thorpe applied his mind. As he pushed through the sun-flecked forest,
laying out his roads, placing his travoy trails, spying the difficulties that might supervene
to mar the fair face of honest labor, he had always this thought before him,--that he must
apply his mind. By an effort, a tremendous effort, he succeeded in doing so. The effort left
him limp. He found himself often standing, or moving gently, his eyes staring sightless, his
mind cradled on vague misty clouds of absolute inaction, his will chained so softly and yet
so firmly that he felt no strength and hardly the desire to break from the dream that lulled
him. Then he was conscious of the physical warmth of the sun, the faint sweet woods smells,
the soothing caress of the breeze, the sleepy cicada-like note of the pine creeper. Through
his half-closed lashes the tangled sun-beams made soft-tinted rainbows. He wanted nothing so
much as to sit on the pine needles there in the golden flood of radiance, and dream--dream
on--vaguely, comfortably, sweetly--dream of the summer--

Thorpe, with a mighty and impatient effort, snapped the silken cords asunder.

"Lord, Lord!" he cried impatiently. "What's coming to me? I must be a little off my feed!"

And he hurried rapidly to his duties. After an hour of the hardest concentration he had ever
been required to bestow on a trivial subject, he again unconsciously sank by degrees into the
old apathy.

"Glad it isn't the busy season!" he commented to himself. "Here, I must quit this! Guess it's
the warm weather. I'll get down to the mill for a day or two."

There he found himself incapable of even the most petty routine work. He sat to his desk at
eight o'clock and began the perusal of a sheaf of letters, comprising a certain correspondence,
which Collins brought him. The first three he read carefully; the following two rather hurriedly;
of the next one he seized only the salient and essential points; the seventh and eighth he
skimmed; the remainder of the bundle he thrust aside in uncontrollable impatience. Next day
he returned to the woods.

The incident of the letters had aroused to the full his old fighting spirit, before which no
mere instincts could stand. He clamped the iron to his actions and forced them to the way appointed.
Once more his mental processes became clear and incisive, his commands direct and to the point.
To all outward appearance Thorpe was as before.

He opened Camp One, and the Fighting Forty came back from distant drinking joints. This was
in early September, when the raspberries were entirely done and the blackberries fairly in
the way of vanishing. That able-bodied and devoted band of men was on hand when needed. Shearer,
in some subtle manner of his own, had let them feel that this year meant thirty million or
"bust." They tightened their leather belts and stood ready for commands. Thorpe set them to
work near the river, cutting roads along the lines he had blazed to the inland timber on seventeen
and nineteen. After much discussion with Shearer the young man decided to take out the logs
from eleven by driving them down French Creek.

To this end a gang was put to clearing the creekbed. It was a tremendous job. Centuries of
forest life had choked the little stream nearly to the level of its banks. Old snags and stumps
lay imbedded in the ooze; decayed trunks, moss-grown, blocked the current; leaning tamaracks,
fallen timber, tangled vines, dense thickets gave to its course more the appearance of a tropical
jungle than of a north country brook-bed. All these things had to be removed, one by one, and
either piled to one side or burnt. In the end, however, it would pay. French Creek was not
a large stream, but it could be driven during the time of the spring freshets.

Each night the men returned in the beautiful dreamlike twilight to the camp. There they sat,
after eating, smoking their pipes in the open air. Much of the time they sang, while Phil,
crouching wolf-like over his violin, rasped out an accompaniment of dissonances. From a distance
it softened and fitted pleasantly into the framework of the wilderness. The men's voices lent
themselves well to the weird minor strains of the chanteys. These times--when the men sang,
and the night-wind rose and died in the hemlock tops--were Thorpe's worst moments. His soul,
tired with the day's iron struggle, fell to brooding. Strange thoughts came to him, strange
visions. He wanted something he knew not what; he longed, and thrilled, and aspired to a greater
glory than that of brave deeds, a softer comfort than his old foster mother, the wilderness,
could bestow.

The men were singing in a mighty chorus, swaying their heads in unison, and bringing out with
a roar the emphatic words of the crude ditties written by some genius from their own ranks.

  "Come all ye sons of freedom throughout old Michigan,
   Come all ye gallant lumbermen, list to a shanty man.
   On the banks of the Muskegon, where the rapid waters flow,
   OH!--we'll range the wild woods o'er while a-lumbering we go."

Here was the bold unabashed front of the pioneer, here was absolute certainty in the superiority
of his calling,--absolute scorn of all others. Thorpe passed his hand across his brow. The
same spirit was once fully and freely his.

  "The music of our burnished ax shall make the woods resound,
   And many a lofty ancient pine will tumble to the ground.
   At night around our shanty fire we'll sing while rude winds blow,
   OH!--we'll range the wild woods o'er while a-lumbering we go!"

That was what he was here for. Things were going right. It would be pitiful to fail merely
on account of this idiotic lassitude, this unmanly weakness, this boyish impatience and desire
for play. He a woodsman! He a fellow with these big strong men!

A single voice, clear and high, struck into a quick measure:

  "I am a jolly shanty boy,
     As you will soon discover;
   To all the dodges I am fly,
     A hustling pine-woods rover.
   A peavey-hook it is my pride,
     An ax I well can handle.
   To fell a tree or punch a bull,
     Get rattling Danny Randall."

And then with a rattle and crash the whole Fighting Forty shrieked out the chorus:

  "Bung yer eye! bung yer eye!"

Active, alert, prepared for any emergency that might arise; hearty, ready for everything, from
punching bulls to felling trees--that was something like! Thorpe despised himself. The song
went on.

  "I love a girl in Saginaw,
     She lives with her mother.
   I defy all Michigan
     To find such another.
   She's tall and slim, her hair is red,
     Her face is plump and pretty.
   She's my daisy Sunday best-day girl,
     And her front name stands for Kitty."

And again as before the Fighting Forty howled truculently:

"Bung yer eye! bung yer eye!"

The words were vulgar, the air a mere minor chant. Yet Thorpe's mind was stilled. His aroused
subconsciousness had been engaged in reconstructing these men entire as their songs voiced
rudely the inner characteristics of their beings. Now his spirit halted, finger on lip. Their
bravery, pride of caste, resource, bravado, boastfulness,--all these he had checked off approvingly.
Here now was the idea of the Mate. Somewhere for each of them was a "Kitty," a "daisy Sunday
best-day girl"; the eternal feminine; the softer side; the tenderness, beauty, glory of even
so harsh a world as they were compelled to inhabit. At the present or in the past these woods
roisterers, this Fighting Forty, had known love. Thorpe arose abruptly and turned at random
into the forest. The song pursued him as he went, but he heard only the clear sweet tones,
not the words. And yet even the words would have spelled to his awakened sensibilities another
idea,--would have symbolized however rudely, companionship and the human delight of acting
a part before a woman.

  "I took her to a dance one night,
     A mossback gave the bidding--
   Silver Jack bossed the shebang,
     and Big Dan played the fiddle.
   We danced and drank the livelong night
     With fights between the dancing,
   Till Silver Jack cleaned out the ranch
     And sent the mossbacks prancing."

And with the increasing war and turmoil of the quick water the last shout of the Fighting Forty
mingled faintly and was lost.

  "Bung yer eye! bung yer eye!"

Thorpe found himself at the edge of the woods facing a little glade into which streamed the
radiance of a full moon.

Chapter XXXVIII

There he stood and looked silently, not understanding, not caring to inquire. Across the way
a white-throat was singing, clear, beautiful, like the shadow of a dream. The girl stood listening.

Her small fair head was inclined ever so little sideways and her finger was on her lips as
though she wished to still the very hush of night, to which impression the inclination of her
supple body lent its grace. The moonlight shone full upon her countenance. A little white face
it was, with wide clear eyes and a sensitive, proud mouth that now half parted like a child's.
Here eyebrows arched from her straight nose in the peculiarly graceful curve that falls just
short of pride on the one side and of power on the other, to fill the eyes with a pathos of
trust and innocence. The man watching could catch the poise of her long white neck and the
molten moon-fire from her tumbled hair,--the color of corn-silk, but finer.

And yet these words meant nothing. A painter might have caught her charm, but he must needs
be a poet as well,--and a great poet, one capable of grandeurs and subtleties.

To the young man standing there rapt in the spell of vague desire, of awakened vision, she
seemed most like a flower or a mist. He tried to find words to formulate her to himself, but
did not succeed. Always it came back to the same idea--the flower and the mist. Like the petals
of a flower most delicate was her questioning, upturned face; like the bend of a flower most
rare the stalk of her graceful throat; like the poise of a flower most dainty the attitude
of her beautiful, perfect body sheathed in a garment that outlined each movement, for the instant
in suspense. Like a mist the glimmering of her skin, the shining of her hair, the elusive moonlike
quality of her whole personality as she stood there in the ghost-like clearing listening, her
fingers on her lips.

Behind her lurked the low, even shadow of the forest where the moon was not, a band of velvet
against which the girl and the light-touched twigs and bushes and grass blades were etched
like frost against a black window pane. There was something, too, of the frost-work's evanescent
spiritual quality in the scene,--as though at any moment, with a puff of the balmy summer wind,
the radiant glade, the hovering figure, the filagreed silver of the entire setting would melt
into the accustomed stern and menacing forest of the northland, with its wolves, and its wild
deer, and the voices of its sterner calling.

Thorpe held his breath and waited. Again the white-throat lifted his clear, spiritual note
across the brightness, slow, trembling with. The girl never moved. She stood in the moonlight
like a beautiful emblem of silence, half real, half fancy, part woman, wholly divine, listening
to the little bird's message.

For the third time the song shivered across the night, then Thorpe with a soft sob, dropped
his face in his hands and looked no more.

He did not feel the earth beneath his knees, nor the whip of the sumach across his face; he
did not see the moon shadows creep slowly along the fallen birch; nor did he notice that the
white-throat had hushed its song. His inmost spirit was shaken. Something had entered his soul
and filled it to the brim, so that he dared no longer stand in the face of radiance until he
had accounted with himself. Another drop would overflow the cup.

Ah, sweet God, the beauty of it, the beauty of it! That questing, childlike starry gaze, seeking
so purely to the stars themselves! That flower face, those drooping, half parted lips! That
inexpressible, unseizable something they had meant! Thorpe searched humbly--eagerly--then with
agony through his troubled spirit, and in its furthermost depths saw the mystery as beautifully
remote as ever. It approached and swept over him and left him gasping passion-racked. Ah, sweet
God, the beauty of it! the beauty of it! the vision! the dream!

He trembled and sobbed with his desire to seize it, with his impotence to express it, with
his failure even to appreciate it as his heart told him it should be appreciated.

He dared not look. At length he turned and stumbled back through the moonlit forest crying
on his old gods in vain.

At the banks of the river he came to a halt. There in the velvet pines the moonlight slept
calmly, and the shadows rested quietly under the breezeless sky. Near at hand the river shouted
as ever its cry of joy over the vitality of life, like a spirited boy before the face of inscrutable
nature. All else was silence. Then from the waste boomed a strange, hollow note, rising, dying,
rising again, instinct with the spirit of the wilds. It fell, and far away sounded a heavy
but distant crash. The cry lifted again. It was the first bull moose calling across the wilderness
to his mate.

And then, faint but clear down the current of a chance breeze drifted the chorus of the Fighting
Forty.

  "The forests so brown at our stroke go down,
     And cities spring up where they fell;
   While logs well run and work well done
     Is the story the shanty boys tell."

Thorpe turned from the river with a thrust forward of his head. He was not a religious man,
and in his six years' woods experience had never been to church. Now he looked up over the
tops of the pines to where the Pleiades glittered faintly among the brighter stars.

"Thanks, God," said he briefly.

Chapter XXXIX

For several days this impression satisfied him completely. He discovered, strangely enough,
that his restlessness had left him, that once more he was able to give to his work his former
energy and interest. It was as though some power had raised its finger and a storm had stilled,
leaving calm, unruffled skies.

He did not attempt to analyze this; he did not even make an effort to contemplate it. His critical
faculty was stricken dumb and it asked no questions of him. At a touch his entire life had
changed. Reality or vision, he had caught a glimpse of something so entirely different from
anything his imagination or experience had ever suggested to him, that at first he could do
no more than permit passively its influences to adjust themselves to his being.

Curiosity, speculation, longing,--all the more active emotions remained in abeyance while outwardly,
for three days, Harry Thorpe occupied himself only with the needs of the Fighting Forty at
Camp One.

In the early morning he went out with the gang. While they chopped or heaved, he stood by serene.
Little questions of expediency he solved. Dilemmas he discussed leisurely with Tim Shearer.
Occasionally he lent a shoulder when the peaveys lacked of prying a stubborn log from its bed.
Not once did he glance at the nooning sun. His patience was quiet and sure. When evening came
he smoked placidly outside the office, listening to the conversation and laughter of the men,
caressing one of the beagles, while the rest slumbered about his feet, watching dreamily the
night shadows and the bats. At about nine o'clock he went to bed, and slept soundly. He was
vaguely conscious of a great peace within him, a great stillness of the spirit, against which
the metallic events of his craft clicked sharply in vivid relief. It was the peace and stillness
of a river before it leaps.

Little by little the condition changed. The man felt vague stirrings of curiosity. He speculated
aimlessly as to whether or not the glade, the moonlight, the girl, had been real or merely
the figments of imagination. Almost immediately the answer leaped at him from his heart. Since
she was so certainly flesh and blood, whence did she come? what was she doing there in the
wilderness? His mind pushed the query aside as unimportant, rushing eagerly to the essential
point: When could he see her again? How find for the second time the vision before which his
heart felt the instant need of prostrating itself. His placidity had gone. That morning he
made some vague excuse to Shearer and set out blindly down the river.

He did not know where he was going, any more than did the bull moose plunging through the trackless
wilderness to his mate. Instinct, the instinct of all wild natural creatures, led him. And
so, without thought, without clear intention even,--most would say by accident,--he saw her
again. It was near the "pole trail"; which was less like a trail than a rail-fence.

For when the snows are deep and snowshoes not the property of every man who cares to journey,
the old-fashioned "pole trail" comes into use. It is merely a series of horses built of timber
across which thick Norway logs are laid, about four feet from the ground, to form a continuous
pathway. A man must be a tight-rope walker to stick to the pole trail when ice and snow have
sheathed its logs. If he makes a misstep, he is precipitated ludicrously into feathery depths
through which he must flounder to the nearest timber horse before he can remount. In summer,
as has been said, it resembles nothing so much as a thick one-rail fence of considerable height,
around which a fringe of light brush has grown.

Thorpe reached the fringe of bushes, and was about to dodge under the fence, when he saw her.
So he stopped short, concealed by the leaves and the timber horse.

She stood on a knoll in the middle of a grove of monster pines. There was something of the
cathedral in the spot. A hush dwelt in the dusk, the long columns lifted grandly to the Roman
arches of the frond, faint murmurings stole here and there like whispering acolytes. The girl
stood tall and straight among the tall, straight pines like a figure on an ancient tapestry.
She was doing nothing--just standing there--but the awe of the forest was in her wide, clear eyes.

The great sweet feeling clutched the young man's throat again. But while the other,--the vision
of the frost-work glade and the spirit-like figure of silence,--had been unreal and phantasmagoric,
this was of the earth. He looked, and looked, and looked again. He saw the full pure curve
of her cheek's contour, neither oval nor round, but like the outline of a certain kind of plum.
He appreciated the half-pathetic downward droop of the corners of her mouth,--her red mouth
in dazzling, bewitching contrast to the milk-whiteness of her skin. He caught the fineness
of her nose, straight as a Grecian's, but with some faint suggestion about the nostrils that
hinted at piquance. And the waving corn silk of her altogether charming and unruly hair, the
superb column of her long neck on which her little head poised proudly like a flower, her supple
body, whose curves had the long undulating grace of the current in a swift river, her slender
white hand with the pointed fingers--all these he saw one after the other, and his soul shouted
within him at the sight. He wrestled with the emotions that choked him. "Ah, God! Ah, God!"
he cried softly to himself like one in pain. He, the man of iron frame, of iron nerve, hardened
by a hundred emergencies, trembled in every muscle before a straight, slender girl, clad all
in brown, standing alone in the middle of the ancient forest.

In a moment she stirred slightly, and turned. Drawing herself to her full height, she extended
her hands over her head palm outward, and, with an indescribably graceful gesture, half mockingly
bowed a ceremonious adieu to the solemn trees. Then with a little laugh she moved away in the
direction of the river.

At once Thorpe proved a great need of seeing her again. In his present mood there was nothing
of the awe-stricken peace he had experienced after the moonlight adventure. He wanted the sight
of her as he had never wanted anything before. He must have it, and he looked about him fiercely
as though to challenge any force in Heaven or Hell that would deprive him of it. His eyes desired
to follow the soft white curve of her cheek, to dance with the light of her corn-silk hair,
to delight in the poetic movements of her tall, slim body, to trace the full outline of her
chin, to wonder at the carmine of her lips, red as a blood-spot on the snow. These things must
be at once. The strong man desired it. And finding it impossible, he raged inwardly and tore
the tranquillities of his heart, as on the shores of the distant Lake of Stars, the bull-moose
trampled down the bushes in his passion.

So it happened that he ate hardly at all that day, and slept ill, and discovered the greatest
difficulty in preserving the outward semblance of ease which the presence of Tim Shearer and
the Fighting Forty demanded.

And next day he saw her again, and the next, because the need of his heart demanded it, and
because, simply enough, she came every afternoon to the clump of pines by the old pole trail.

Now had Thorpe taken the trouble to inquire, he could have learned easily enough all there
was to be known of the affair. But he did not take the trouble. His consciousness was receiving
too many new impressions, so that in a manner it became bewildered. At first, as has been seen,
the mere effect of the vision was enough; then the sight of the girl sufficed him. But now
curiosity awoke and a desire for something more. He must speak to her, touch her hand, look
into her eyes. He resolved to approach her, and the mere thought choked him and sent him weak.

When he saw her again from the shelter of the pole trail, he dared not, and so stood there
prey to a novel sensation,--that of being baffled in an intention. It awoke within him a vast
passion compounded part of rage at himself, part of longing for that which he could not take,
but most of love for the girl. As he hesitated in one mind but in two decisions, he saw that
she was walking slowly in his direction.

Perhaps a hundred paces separated the two. She took them deliberately, pausing now and again
to listen, to pluck a leaf, to smell the fragrant balsam and fir tops as she passed them. Her
progression was a series of poses, the one of which melted imperceptibly into the other without
appreciable pause of transition. So subtly did her grace appeal to the sense of sight, that
out of mere sympathy the other senses responded with fictions of their own. Almost could the
young man behind the trail savor a faint fragrance, a faint music that surrounded and preceded
her like the shadows of phantoms. He knew it as an illusion, born of his desire, and yet it
was a noble illusion, for it had its origin in her.

In a moment she had reached the fringe of brush about the pole trail. They stood face to face.

She gave a little start of surprise, and her hand leaped to her breast, where it caught and
stayed. Her childlike down-drooping mouth parted a little more, and the breath quickened through
it. But her eyes, her wide, trusting, innocent eyes, sought his and rested.

He did not move. The eagerness, the desire, the long years of ceaseless struggle, the thirst
for affection, the sob of awe at the moonlit glade, the love,--all these flamed in his eyes
and fixed his gaze in an unconscious ardor that had nothing to do with convention or timidity.
One on either side of the spike-marked old Norway log of the trail they stood, and for an appreciable
interval the duel of their glances lasted,--he masterful, passionate, exigent; she proud, cool,
defensive in the aloofness of her beauty. Then at last his prevailed. A faint color rose from
her neck, deepened, and spread over her face and forehead. In a moment she dropped her eyes.

"Don't you think you stare a little rudely--Mr. Thorpe?" she asked.

Chapter XL

The vision was over, but the beauty remained. The spoken words of protest made her a woman.
Never again would she, nor any other creature of the earth, appear to Thorpe as she had in
the silver glade or the cloistered pines. He had had his moment of insight. The deeps had twice
opened to permit him to look within. Now they had closed again. But out of them had fluttered
a great love and the priestess of it. Always, so long as life should be with him, Thorpe was
destined to see in this tall graceful girl with the red lips and the white skin and the corn-silk
hair, more beauty, more of the great mysterious spiritual beauty which is eternal, than her
father or her mother or her dearest and best. For to them the vision had not been vouchsafed,
while he had seen her as the highest symbol of God's splendor.

Now she stood before him, her head turned half away, a faint flush still tingeing the chalk-white
of her skin, watching him with a dim, half-pleading smile in expectation of his reply.

"Ah, moon of my soul! light of my life!" he cried, but he cried it within him, though it almost
escaped his vigilance to his lips. What he really said sounded almost harsh in consequence.

"How did you know my name?" he asked.

She planted both elbows on the Norway and framed her little face deliciously with her long
pointed hands.

"If Mr. Harry Thorpe can ask that question," she replied, "he is not quite so impolite as I
had thought him."

"If you don't stop pouting your lips, I shall kiss them!" cried Harry--to himself.

"How is that?" he inquired breathlessly.

"Don't you know who I am?" she asked in return.

"A goddess, a beautiful woman!" he answered ridiculously enough.

She looked straight at him. This time his gaze dropped.

"I am a friend of Elizabeth Carpenter, who is Wallace Carpenter's sister, who I believe is
Mr. Harry Thorpe's partner."

She paused as though for comment. The young man opposite was occupied in many other more important
directions. Some moments later the words trickled into his brain, and some moments after that
he realized their meaning.

"We wrote Mr. Harry Thorpe that we were about to descend on his district with wagons and tents
and Indians and things, and asked him to come and see us."

"Ah, heart o' mine, what clear, pure eyes she has! How they look at a man to drown his soul!"

Which, even had it been spoken, was hardly the comment one would have expected.

The girl looked at him for a moment steadily, then smiled. The change of countenance brought
Thorpe to himself, and at the same moment the words she had spoken reached his comprehension.

"But I never received the letter. I'm so sorry," said he. "It must be at the mill. You see,
I've been up in the woods for nearly a month."

"Then we'll have to forgive you."

"But I should think they would have done something for you at the mill--"

"Oh, we didn't come by way of your mill. We drove from Marquette."

"I see," cried Thorpe, enlightened. "But I'm sorry I didn't know. I'm sorry you didn't let
me know. I suppose you thought I was still at the mill. How did you get along? Is Wallace with
you?"

"No," she replied, dropping her hands and straightening her erect figure. "It's horrid. He
was coming, and then some business came up and he couldn't get away. We are having the loveliest
time though. I do adore the woods. Come," she cried impatiently, sweeping aside to leave a
way clear, "you shall meet my friends."

Thorpe imagined she referred to the rest of the tenting party. He hesitated.

"I am hardly in fit condition," he objected.

She laughed, parting her red lips. "You are extremely picturesque just as you are," she said
with rather embarrassing directness. "I wouldn't have you any different for the world. But
my friends don't mind. They are used to it." She laughed again.

Thorpe crossed the pole trail, and for the first time found himself by her side. The warm summer
odors were in the air, a dozen lively little birds sang in the brush along the rail, the sunlight
danced and flickered through the openings.

Then suddenly they were among the pines, and the air was cool, the vista dim, and the bird
songs inconceivably far away.

The girl walked directly to the foot of a pine three feet through, and soaring up an inconceivable
distance through the still twilight.

"This is Jimmy," said she gravely. "He is a dear good old rough bear when you don't know him,
but he likes me. If you put your ear close against him," she confided, suiting the action to
the word, "you can hear him talking to himself. This little fellow is Tommy. I don't care so
much for Tommy because he's sticky. Still, I like him pretty well, and here's Dick, and that's
Bob, and the one just beyond is Jack."

"Where is Harry?" asked Thorpe.

"I thought one in a woods was quite sufficient," she replied with the least little air of impertinence.

"Why do you name them such common, everyday names?" he inquired.

"I'll tell you. It's because they are so big and grand themselves, that it did not seem to
me they needed high-sounding names. What do you think?" she begged with an appearance of the
utmost anxiety.

Thorpe expressed himself as in agreement. As the half-quizzical conversation progressed, he
found their relations adjusting themselves with increasing rapidity. He had been successively
the mystic devotee before his vision, the worshipper before his goddess; now he was unconsciously
assuming the attitude of the lover before his mistress. It needs always this humanizing touch
to render the greatest of all passions livable.

And as the human element developed, he proved at the same time greater and greater difficulty
in repressing himself and greater and greater fear of the results in case he should not do
so. He trembled with the desire to touch her long slender hand, and as soon as his imagination
had permitted him that much he had already crushed her to him and had kissed passionately her
starry face. Words hovered on his lips longing for flight. He withheld them by an effort that
left him almost incoherent, for he feared with a deadly fear lest he lose forever what the
vision had seemed to offer to his hand.

So he said little, and that lamely, for he dreaded to say too much. To her playful sallies
he had no riposte. And in consequence he fell more silent with another boding--that he was
losing his cause outright for lack of a ready word.

He need not have been alarmed. A woman in such a case hits as surely as a man misses. Her very
daintiness and preciosity of speech indicated it. For where a man becomes stupid and silent,
a woman covers her emotions with words and a clever speech. Not in vain is a proud-spirited
girl stared down in such a contest of looks; brave deeds simply told by a friend are potent
to win interest in advance; a straight, muscular figure, a brown skin, a clear, direct eye,
a carriage of power and acknowledged authority, strike hard at a young imagination; a mighty
passion sweeps aside the barriers of the heart. Such a victory, such a friend, such a passion
had Thorpe.

And so the last spoken exchange between them meant nothing; but if each could have read the
unsaid words that quivered on the other's heart, Thorpe would have returned to the Fighting
Forty more tranquilly, while she would probably not have returned to the camping party at all
for a number of hours.

"I do not think you had better come with me," she said. "Make your call and be forgiven on
your own account. I don't want to drag you in at my chariot wheels."

"All right. I'll come this afternoon," Thorpe had replied.

"I love her, I must have her. I must go--at once," his soul had cried, "quick--now--before
I kiss her!"

"How strong he is," she said to herself, "how brave-looking; how honest! He is different from
the other men. He is magnificent."

Chapter XLI

That afternoon Thorpe met the other members of the party, offered his apologies and explanations,
and was graciously forgiven. He found the personnel to consist of, first of all, Mrs. Cary,
the chaperone, a very young married woman of twenty-two or thereabouts; her husband, a youth
of three years older, clean-shaven, light-haired, quiet-mannered; Miss Elizabeth Carpenter,
who resembled her brother in the characteristics of good-looks, vivacious disposition and curly
hair; an attendant satellite of the masculine persuasion called Morton; and last of all the
girl whom Thorpe had already so variously encountered and whom he now met as Miss Hilda Farrand.
Besides these were Ginger, a squab negro built to fit the galley of a yacht; and three Indian
guides. They inhabited tents, which made quite a little encampment.

Thorpe was received with enthusiasm. Wallace Carpenter's stories of his woods partner, while
never doing more than justice to the truth, had been of a warm color tone. One and all owned
a lively curiosity to see what a real woodsman might be like. When he proved to be handsome
and well mannered, as well as picturesque, his reception was no longer in doubt.

Nothing could exceed his solicitude as to their comfort and amusement. He inspected personally
the arrangement of the tents, and suggested one or two changes conducive to the littler comforts.
This was not much like ordinary woods-camping. The largest wall-tent contained three folding
cots for the women, over which, in the daytime, were flung bright-colored Navajo blankets.
Another was spread on the ground. Thorpe later, however, sent over two bear skins, which were
acknowledgedly an improvement. To the tent pole a mirror of size was nailed, and below it stood
a portable washstand. The second tent, devoted to the two men, was not quite so luxurious;
but still boasted of little conveniences the true woodsman would never consider worth the bother
of transporting. The third, equally large, was the dining tent. The other three, smaller, and
on the A tent order, served respectively as sleeping rooms for Ginger and the Indians, and
as a general store-house for provisions and impedimenta.

Thorpe sent an Indian to Camp One for the bearskins, put the rest to digging a trench around
the sleeping tents in order that a rain storm might not cause a flood, and ordered Ginger to
excavate a square hole some feet deep which he intended to utilize as a larder.

Then he gave Morton and Cary hints as to the deer they wished to capture, pointed out the best
trout pools, and issued advice as to the compassing of certain blackberries, not far distant.

Simple things enough they were to do--it was as though a city man were to direct a newcomer
to Central Park, or impart to him a test for the destinations of trolley lines--yet Thorpe's
new friends were profoundly impressed with his knowledge of occult things. The forest was to
them, as to most, more or less of a mystery, unfathomable except to the favored of genius.
A man who could interpret it, even a little, into the speech of everyday comfort and expediency
possessed a strong claim to their imaginations. When he had finished these practical affairs,
they wanted him to sit down and tell them more things, to dine with them, to smoke about their
camp fire in the evening. But here they encountered a decided check. Thorpe became silent,
almost morose. He talked in monosyllables, and soon went away. They did not know what to make
of him, and so were, of course, the more profoundly interested. The truth was, his habitual
reticence would not have permitted a great degree of expansion in any case, but now the presence
of Hilda made any but an attitude of hushed waiting for her words utterly impossible to him.
He wished well to them all. If there was anything he could do for them, he would gladly undertake
it. But he would not act the lion nor tell of his, to them, interesting adventures.

However, when he discovered that Hilda had ceased visiting the clump of pines near the pole
trail, his desire forced him back among these people. He used to walk in swiftly at almost
any time of day, casting quick glances here and there in search of his divinity.

"How do, Mrs. Cary," he would say. "Nice weather. Enjoying yourself?"

On receiving the reply he would answer heartily, "That's good!" and lapse into silence. When
Hilda was about he followed every movement of hers with his eyes, so that his strange conduct
lacked no explanation nor interpretation, in the minds of the women at least. Thrice he redeemed
his reputation for being an interesting character by conducting the party on little expeditions
here and there about the country. Then his woodcraft and resourcefulness spoke for him. They
asked him about the lumbering operations, but he seemed indifferent.

"Nothing to interest you," he affirmed. "We're just cutting roads now. You ought to be here
for the drive."

To him there was really nothing interesting in the cutting of roads nor the clearing of streams.
It was all in a day's work.

Once he took them over to see Camp One. They were immensely pleased, and were correspondingly
loud in exclamations. Thorpe's comments were brief and dry. After the noon dinner he had the
unfortunate idea of commending the singing of one of the men.

"Oh, I'd like to hear him," cried Elizabeth Carpenter. "Can't you get him to sing for us, Mr.
Thorpe?"

Thorpe went to the men's camp, where he singled out the unfortunate lumber-jack in question.

"Come on, Archie," he said. "The ladies want to hear you sing."

The man objected, refused, pleaded, and finally obeyed what amounted to a command. Thorpe reentered
the office with triumph, his victim in tow.

"This is Archie Harris," he announced heartily. "He's our best singer just now. Take a chair,
Archie."

The man perched on the edge of the chair and looked straight out before him.

"Do sing for us, won't you, Mr. Harris?" requested Mrs. Cary in her sweetest tones.

The man said nothing, nor moved a muscle, but turned a brick-red. An embarrassed silence of
expectation ensued.

"Hit her up, Archie," encouraged Thorpe.

"I ain't much in practice no how," objected the man in a little voice, without moving.

"I'm sure you'll find us very appreciative," said Elizabeth Carpenter.

"Give us a song, Archie, let her go," urged Thorpe impatiently.

"All right," replied the man very meekly.

Another silence fell. It got to be a little awful. The poor woodsman, pilloried before the
regards of this polite circle, out of his element, suffering cruelly, nevertheless made no
sign nor movement one way or the other. At last when the situation had almost reached the breaking
point of hysteria, he began.

His voice ordinarily was rather a good tenor. Now he pitched it too high; and went on straining
at the high notes to the very end. Instead of offering one of the typical woods chanteys, he
conceived that before so grand an audience he should give something fancy. He therefore struck
into a sentimental song of the cheap music-hall type. There were nine verses, and he drawled
through them all, hanging whiningly on the nasal notes in the fashion of the untrained singer.
Instead of being a performance typical of the strange woods genius, it was merely an atrocious
bit of cheap sentimentalism, badly rendered.

The audience listened politely. When the song was finished it murmured faint thanks.

"Oh, give us 'Jack Haggerty,' Archie," urged Thorpe.

But the woodsman rose, nodded his head awkwardly, and made his escape. He entered the men's
camp, swearing, and for the remainder of the day made none but blasphemous remarks.

The beagles, however, were a complete success. They tumbled about, and lolled their tongues,
and laughed up out of a tangle of themselves in a fascinating manner. Altogether the visit
to Camp One was a success, the more so in that on the way back, for the first time, Thorpe
found that chance--and Mrs. Cary--had allotted Hilda to his care.

A hundred yards down the trail they encountered Phil. The dwarf stopped short, looked attentively
at the girl, and then softly approached. When quite near to her he again stopped, gazing at
her with his soul in his liquid eyes.

"You are more beautiful than the sea at night," he said directly.

The others laughed. "There's sincerity for you, Miss Hilda," said young Mr. Morton.

"Who is he?" asked the girl after they had moved

"Our chore-boy," answered Thorpe with great brevity, for he was thinking of something much
more important.

After the rest of the party had gone ahead, leaving them sauntering more slowly down the trail,
he gave it voice.

"Why don't you come to the pine grove any more?" he asked bluntly.

"Why?" countered Hilda in the manner of women.

"I want to see you there. I want to talk with you. I can't talk with all that crowd around."

"I'll come to-morrow," she said--then with a little mischievous laugh, "if that'll make you talk."

"You must think I'm awfully stupid," agreed Thorpe bitterly.

"Ah, no! Ah, no!" she protested softly. "You must not say that."

She was looking at him very tenderly, if he had only known it, but he did not, for his face
was set in discontented lines straight before him.

"It is true," he replied.

They walked on in silence, while gradually the dangerous fascination of the woods crept down
on them. Just before sunset a hush falls on nature. The wind has died, the birds have not yet
begun their evening songs, the light itself seems to have left off sparkling and to lie still
across the landscape. Such a hush now lay on their spirits. Over the way a creeper was droning
sleepily a little chant,--the only voice in the wilderness. In the heart of the man, too, a
little voice raised itself alone.

"Sweetheart, sweetheart, sweetheart!" it breathed over and over again. After a while he said
it gently in a half voice.

"No, no, hush!" said the girl, and she laid the soft, warm fingers of one hand across his lips,
and looked at him from a height of superior soft-eyed tenderness as a woman might look at a
child. "You must not. It is not right."

Then he kissed the fingers very gently before they were withdrawn, and she said nothing at
all in rebuke, but looked straight before her with troubled eyes.

The voices of evening began to raise their jubilant notes. From a tree nearby the olive thrush
sang like clockwork; over beyond carolled eagerly a black-throat, a myrtle warbler, a dozen
song sparrows, and a hundred vireos and creepers. Down deep in the blackness of the ancient
woods a hermit thrush uttered his solemn bell note, like the tolling of the spirit of peace.
And in Thorpe's heart a thousand tumultuous voices that had suddenly roused to clamor, died
into nothingness at the music of her softly protesting voice.

Chapter XLII

Thorpe returned to Camp One shortly after dark. He found there Scotty Parsons, who had come
up to take charge of the crew engaged in clearing French Creek. The man brought him a number
of letters sent on by Collins, among which was one from Wallace Carpenter.

After commending the camping party to his companion's care, and giving minute directions as
to how and where to meet it, the young fellow went on to say that affairs were going badly
on the Board.

"Some interest that I haven't been able to make out yet has been hammering our stocks down
day after day," he wrote. "I don't understand it, for the stocks are good--they rest on a solid
foundation of value and intrinsically are worth more than is bid for them right now. Some powerful
concern is beating them down for a purpose of its own. Sooner or later they will let up, and
then we'll get things back in good shape. I am amply protected now, thanks to you, and am not
at all afraid of losing my holdings. The only difficulty is that I am unable to predict exactly
when the other fellows will decide that they have accomplished whatever they are about, and
let up. It may not be before next year. In that case I couldn't help you out on those notes
when they come due. So put in your best licks, old man. You may have to pony up for a little
while, though of course sooner or later I can put it all back. Then, you bet your life, I keep
out of it. Lumbering's good enough for yours truly.

"By the way, you might shine up to Hilda Farrand and join the rest of the fortune-hunters.
She's got it to throw to the birds, and in her own right. Seriously, old fellow, don't put
yourself into a false position through ignorance. Not that there is any danger to a hardened
old woodsman like you."

Thorpe went to the group of pines by the pole trail the following afternoon because he had
said he would, but with a new attitude of mind. He had come into contact with the artificiality
of conventional relations, and it stiffened him. No wonder she had made him keep silence the
afternoon before! She had done it gently and nicely, to be sure, but that was part of her good-breeding.
Hilda found him formal, reserved, polite; and marvelled at it. In her was no coquetry. She
was as straightforward and sincere as the look of her eyes.

They sat down on a log. Hilda turned to him with her graceful air of confidence.

"Now talk to me," said she.

"Certainly," replied Thorpe in a practical tone of voice, "what do you want me to talk about?"

She shot a swift, troubled glance at him, concluded herself mistaken, and said:

"Tell me about what you do up here--your life--all about it."

"Well--" replied Thorpe formally, "we haven't much to interest a girl like you. It is a question
of saw logs with us"--and he went on in his dryest, most technical manner to detail the process
of manufacture. It might as well have been bricks.

The girl did not understand. She was hurt. As surely as the sun tangled in the distant pine
frond, she had seen in his eyes a great passion. Now it was coldly withdrawn.

"What has happened to you?" she asked finally out of her great sincerity.

"Me? Nothing," replied Thorpe.

A forced silence fell upon him. Hilda seemed gradually to lose herself in reverie. After a
time she said softly.

"Don't you love this woods?"

"It's an excellent bunch of pine," replied Thorpe bluntly. "It'll cut three million at least."

"Oh!" she cried drawing back, her hands pressed against the log either side of her, her eyes wide.

After a moment she caught her breath convulsively, and Thorpe became conscious that she was
studying him furtively with a quickening doubt.

After that, by the mercy of God, there was no more talk between them. She was too hurt and
shocked and disillusioned to make the necessary effort to go away. He was too proud to put
an end to the position. They sat there apparently absorbed in thought, while all about them
the accustomed life of the woods drew nearer and nearer to them, as the splash of their entrance
into it died away.

A red squirrel poised thirty feet above them, leaped, and clung swaying to a sapling-top a
dozen yards from the tree he had quitted. Two chickadees upside down uttering liquid undertones,
searched busily for insects next their heads. Wilson's warblers, pine creepers, black-throats,
myrtle and magnolia warblers, oven birds, peewits, blue jays, purple finches, passed silently
or noisily, each according to his kind. Once a lone spruce hen dusted herself in a stray patch
of sunlight until it shimmered on a tree trunk, raised upward, and disappeared, to give place
to long level dusty shafts that shot here and there through the pines laying the spell of sunset
on the noisy woods brawlers.

Unconsciously the first strain of opposition and of hurt surprise had relaxed. Each thought
vaguely his thoughts. Then in the depths of the forest, perhaps near at hand, perhaps far away,
a single hermit thrush began to sing. His song was of three solemn deep liquid notes; followed
by a slight rhetorical pause as of contemplation; and then, deliberately, three notes more
on a different key--and so on without haste and without pause. It is the most dignified, the
most spiritual, the holiest of woods utterances. Combined with the evening shadows and the
warm soft air, it offered to the heart an almost irresistible appeal. The man's artificial
antagonism modified; the woman's disenchantment began to seem unreal.

Then subtly over and through the bird-song another sound became audible. At first it merely
repeated the three notes faintly, like an echo, but with a rich, sad undertone that brought
tears. Then, timidly and still softly, it elaborated the theme, weaving in and out through
the original three the glitter and shimmer of a splendid web of sound, spreading before the
awakened imagination a broad river of woods-imagery that reflected on its surface all the subtler
moods of the forest. The pine shadows, the calls of the wild creatures, the flow of the brook,
the splashes of sunlight through the trees, the sigh of the wind, the shout of the rapid,--all
these were there, distinctly to be felt in their most ethereal and beautiful forms. And yet
it was all slight and tenuous as though the crack of a twig would break it through--so that
over it continually like a grand full organ-tone repeated the notes of the bird itself.

With the first sigh of the wonder-music the girl had started and caught her breath in the exquisite
pleasure of it. As it went on they both forgot everything but the harmony and each other.

"Ah, beautiful!" she murmured.

"What is it?" he whispered marvelling.

"A violin,--played by a master."

The bird suddenly hushed, and at once the strain abandoned the woods-note and took another
motif. At first it played softly in the higher notes, a tinkling, lightsome little melody that
stirred a kindly surface-smile over a full heart. Then suddenly, without transition, it dropped
to the lower register, and began to sob and wail in the full vibrating power of a great passion.

And the theme it treated was love. It spoke solemnly, fearfully of the greatness of it, the
glory. These as abstractions it amplified in fine full-breathed chords that swept the spirit
up and up as on the waves of a mighty organ. Then one by one the voices of other things were
heard,--the tinkling of laughter, the roar of a city, the sob of a grief, a cry of pain suddenly
shooting across the sound, the clank of a machine, the tumult of a river, the puff of a steamboat,
the murmuring of a vast crowd,--and one by one, without seeming in the least to change their
character, they merged imperceptibly into, and were part of the grand-breathed chords, so that
at last all the fames and ambitions and passions of the world came, in their apotheosis, to
be only parts of the master-passion of them all.

And while the echoes of the greater glory still swept beneath their uplifted souls like ebbing
waves, so that they still sat rigid and staring with the majesty of it, the violin softly began
to whisper. Beautiful it was as a spirit, beautiful beyond words, beautiful beyond thought.
Its beauty struck sharp at the heart. And they two sat there hand in hand dreaming--dreaming--dreaming--

At last the poignant ecstacy seemed slowly, slowly to die. Fainter and fainter ebbed the music.
Through it as through a mist the solemn aloof forest began to show to the consciousness of
the two. They sought each other's eyes gently smiling. The music was very soft and dim and
sad. They leaned to each other with a sob. Their lips met. The music ceased.

Alone in the forest side by side they looked out together for a moment into that eternal vision
which lovers only are permitted to see. The shadows fell. About them brooded the inscrutable
pines stretching a canopy over them enthroned. A single last shaft of the sun struck full upon
them, a single light-spot in the gathering gloom. They were beautiful.

And over behind the trees, out of the light and the love and the beauty, little Phil huddled,
his great shaggy head bowed in his arms. Beside him lay his violin, and beside that his bow,
broken. He had snapped it across his knee. That day he had heard at last the Heart Song of
the Violin, and uttering it, had bestowed love. But in accordance with his prophecy he had
that day lost what he cared for most in all the world, his friend.

Chapter XLIII

That was the moon of delight. The days passed through the hazy forest like stately figures
from an old masque. In the pine grove on the knoll the man and the woman had erected a temple
to love, and love showed them one to the other.

In Hilda Farrand was no guile, no coquetry, no deceit. So perfect was her naturalism that often
by those who knew her least she was considered affected. Her trust in whomever she found herself
with attained so directly its reward; her unconsciousness of pose was so rhythmically graceful;
her ignorance and innocence so triumphantly effective, that the mind with difficulty rid itself
of the belief that it was all carefully studied. This was not true. She honestly did not know
that she was beautiful; was unaware of her grace; did not realize the potency of her wealth.

This absolute lack of self-consciousness was most potent in overcoming Thorpe's natural reticence.
He expanded to her. She came to idolize him in a manner at once inspiring and touching in so
beautiful a creature. In him she saw reflected all the lofty attractions of character which
she herself possessed, but of which she was entirely unaware. Through his words she saw to
an ideal. His most trivial actions were ascribed to motives of a dignity which would have been
ridiculous, if it had not been a little pathetic. The woods-life, the striving of the pioneer
kindled her imagination. She seized upon the great facts of them and fitted those facts with
reasons of her own. Her insight perceived the adventurous spirit, the battle-courage, the indomitable
steadfastness which always in reality lie back of these men of the frontier to urge them into
the life; and of them constructed conscious motives of conduct. To her fancy the lumbermen,
of whom Thorpe was one, were self-conscious agents of advance. They chose hardship, loneliness,
the strenuous life because they wished to clear the way for a higher civilization. To her it
seemed a great and noble sacrifice. She did not perceive that while all this is true, it is
under the surface, the real spur is a desire to get on, and a hope of making money. For, strangely
enough, she differentiated sharply the life and the reasons for it. An existence in subduing
the forest was to her ideal; the making of a fortune through a lumbering firm she did not consider
in the least important. That this distinction was most potent, the sequel will show.

In all of it she was absolutely sincere, and not at all stupid. She had always had all she
could spend, without question. Money meant nothing to her, one way or the other. If need was,
she might have experienced some difficulty in learning how to economize, but none at all in
adjusting herself to the necessity of it. The material had become, in all sincerity, a basis
for the spiritual. She recognized but two sorts of motives; of which the ideal, comprising
the poetic, the daring, the beautiful, were good; and the material, meaning the sordid and
selfish, were bad. With her the mere money-getting would have to be allied with some great
and poetic excuse.

That is the only sort of aristocracy, in the popular sense of the word, which is real; the
only scorn of money which can be respected.

There are some faces which symbolize to the beholder many subtleties of soul-beauty which by
no other method could gain expression. Those subtleties may not, probably do not, exist in
the possessor of the face. The power of such a countenance lies not so much in what it actually
represents, as in the suggestion it holds out to another. So often it is with a beautiful character.
Analyze it carefully, and you will reduce it generally to absolute simplicity and absolute
purity--two elements common enough in adulteration; but place it face to face with a more complex
personality, and mirror-like it will take on a hundred delicate shades of ethical beauty, while
at the same time preserving its own lofty spirituality.

Thus Hilda Farrand reflected Thorpe. In the clear mirror of her heart his image rested transfigured.
It was as though the glass were magic, so that the gross and material was absorbed and lost,
while the more spiritual qualities reflected back. So the image was retained in its entirety,
but etherealized, refined. It is necessary to attempt, even thus faintly and inadequately,
a sketch of Hilda's love, for a partial understanding of it is necessary to the comprehension
of what followed the moon of delight.

That moon saw a variety of changes.

The bed of French Creek was cleared. Three of the roads were finished, and the last begun.
So much for the work of it.

Morton and Cary shot four deer between them, which was unpardonably against the law, caught
fish in plenty, smoked two and a half pounds of tobacco, and read half of one novel. Mrs. Cary
and Miss Carpenter walked a total of over a hundred miles, bought twelve pounds of Indian work
of all sorts, embroidered the circle of two embroidery frames, learned to paddle a birch-bark
canoe, picked fifteen quarts of berries, and gained six pounds in weight. All the party together
accomplished five picnics, four explorations, and thirty excellent campfires in the evening.
So much for the fun of it.

Little Phil disappeared utterly, taking with him his violin, but leaving his broken bow. Thorpe
has it even to this day. The lumberman caused search and inquiry on all sides. The cripple
was never heard of again. He had lived his brief hour, taken his subtle artist's vengeance
of misplayed notes on the crude appreciation of men too coarse-fibered to recognize it, brought
together by the might of sacrifice and consummate genius two hearts on the brink of misunderstanding;--now
there was no further need for him, he had gone. So much for the tragedy of it.

"I saw you long ago," said Hilda to Thorpe. "Long, long ago, when I was quite a young girl.
I had been visiting in Detroit, and was on my way all alone to catch an early train. You stood
on the corner thinking, tall and straight and brown, with a weather-beaten old hat and a weather-beaten
old coat and weather-beaten old moccasins, and such a proud, clear, undaunted look on your
face. I have remembered you ever since."

And then he told her of the race to the Land Office, while her eyes grew brighter and brighter
with the epic splendor of the story. She told him that she had loved him from that moment--and
believed her telling; while he, the unsentimental leader of men, persuaded himself and her
that he had always in some mysterious manner carried her image prophetically in his heart.
So much for the love of it.

In the last days of the month of delight Thorpe received a second letter from his partner,
which to some extent awakened him to the realities.

"My dear Harry," it ran. "I have made a startling discovery. The other fellow is Morrison.
I have been a blind, stupid dolt, and am caught nicely. You can't call me any more names than
I have already called myself. Morrison has been in it from the start. By an accident I learned
he was behind the fellow who induced me to invest, and it is he who has been hammering the
stock down ever since. They couldn't lick you at your game, so they tackled me at mine. I'm
not the man you are, Harry, and I've made a mess of it. Of course their scheme is plain enough
on the face of it. They're going to involve me so deeply that I will drag the firm down with me.

"If you can fix it to meet those notes, they can't do it. I have ample margin to cover any
more declines they may be able to bring about. Don't fret about that. Just as sure as you can
pay that sixty thousand, just so sure we'll be ahead of the game at this time next year. For
God's sake get a move on you, old man. If you don't--good Lord! The firm'll bust because she
can't pay; I'll bust because I'll have to let my stock go on margins--it'll be an awful smash.
But you'll get there, so we needn't worry. I've been an awful fool, and I've no right to do
the getting into trouble and leave you to the hard work of getting out again. But as partner
I'm going to insist on your having a salary--etc."

The news aroused all Thorpe's martial spirit. Now at last the mystery surrounding Morrison
& Daly's unnatural complaisance was riven. It had come to grapples again. He was glad of it.
Meet those notes? Well I guess so! He'd show them what sort of a proposition they had tackled.
Sneaking, underhanded scoundrels! taking advantage of a mere boy. Meet those notes? You bet
he would; and then he'd go down there and boost those stocks until M. & D. looked like a last
year's bird's nest. He thrust the letter in his pocket and walked buoyantly to the pines.

The two lovers sat there all the afternoon drinking in half sadly the joy of the forest and
of being near each other, for the moon of delight was almost done. In a week the camping party
would be breaking up, and Hilda must return to the city. It was uncertain when they would be
able to see each other again, though there was talk of getting up a winter party to visit Camp
One in January. The affair would be unique.

Suddenly the girl broke off and put her fingers to her lips. For some time, dimly, an intermittent
and faint sound had been felt, rather than actually heard, like the irregular muffled beating
of a heart. Gradually it had insisted on the attention. Now at last it broke through the film
of consciousness.

"What is it?" she asked.

Thorpe listened. Then his face lit mightily with the joy of battle.

"My axmen," he cried. "They are cutting the road."

A faint call echoed. Then without warning, nearer at hand the sharp ring of an ax sounded through
the forest.

PART V. THE FOLLOWING OF THE TRAIL

Chapter XLIV

For a moment they sat listening to the clear staccato knocking of the distant blows, and the
more forceful thuds of the man nearer at hand. A bird or so darted from the direction of the
sound and shot silently into the thicket behind them.

"What are they doing? Are they cutting lumber?" asked Hilda.

"No," answered Thorpe, "we do not cut saw logs at this time of year. They are clearing out a road."

"Where does it go to?"

"Well, nowhere in particular. That is, it is a logging road that starts at the river and wanders
up through the woods where the pine is."

"How clear the axes sound. Can't we go down and watch them a little while?"

"The main gang is a long distance away; sound carries very clearly in this still air. As for
that fellow you hear so plainly, he is only clearing out small stuff to get ready for the others.
You wouldn't see anything different from your Indian chopping the cordwood for your camp fire.
He won't chop out any big trees."

"Let's not go, then," said Hilda submissively.

"When you come up in the winter," he pursued, "you will see any amount of big timber felled."

"I would like to know more about it," she sighed, a quaint little air of childish petulance
graving two lines between her eyebrows. "Do you know, Harry, you are a singularly uncommunicative
sort of being. I have to guess that your life is interesting and picturesque,--that is," she
amended, "I should have to do so if Wallace Carpenter had not told me a little something about
it. Sometimes I think you are not nearly poet enough for the life you are living. Why, you
are wonderful, you men of the north, and you let us ordinary mortals who have not the gift
of divination imagine you entirely occupied with how many pounds of iron chain you are going
to need during the winter." She said these things lightly as one who speaks things not for
serious belief.

"It is something that way," he agreed with a laugh.

"Do you know, sir," she persisted, "that I really don't know anything at all about the life
you lead here? From what I have seen, you might be perpetually occupied in eating things in
a log cabin, and in disappearing to perform some mysterious rites in the forest." She looked
at him with a smiling mouth but tender eyes, her head tilted back slightly.

"It's a good deal that way, too," he agreed again. "We use a barrel of flour in Camp One every
two and a half days!"

She shook her head in a faint negation that only half understood what he was saying, her whole
heart in her tender gaze.

"Sit there," she breathed very softly, pointing to the dried needles on which her feet rested,
but without altering the position of her head or the steadfastness of her look.

He obeyed.

"Now tell me," she breathed, still in the fascinated monotone.

"What?" he inquired.

"Your life; what you do; all about it. You must tell me a story."

Thorpe settled himself more lazily, and laughed with quiet enjoyment. Never had he felt the
expansion of a similar mood. The barrier between himself and self-expression had faded, leaving
not the smallest debris of the old stubborn feeling.

"The story of the woods," he began, "the story of the saw log. It would take a bigger man than
I to tell it. I doubt if any one man ever would be big enough. It is a drama, a struggle, a
battle. Those men you hear there are only the skirmishers extending the firing line. We are
fighting always with Time. I'll have to hurry now to get those roads done and a certain creek
cleared before the snow. Then we'll have to keep on the keen move to finish our cutting before
the deep snow; to haul our logs before the spring thaws; to float them down the river while
the freshet water lasts. When we gain a day we have scored a victory; when the wilderness puts
us back an hour, we have suffered a defeat. Our ammunition is Time; our small shot the minutes,
our heavy ordnance the hours!"

The girl placed her hand on his shoulder. He covered it with his own.

"But we win!" he cried. "We win!"

"That is what I like," she said softly, "the strong spirit that wins!" She hesitated, then
went on gently, "But the battlefields, Harry; to me they are dreadful. I went walking yesterday
morning, before you came over, and after a while I found myself in the most awful place. The
stumps of trees, the dead branches, the trunks lying all about, and the glaring hot sun over
everything! Harry, there was not a single bird in all that waste, a single green thing. You
don't know how it affected me so early in the morning. I saw just one lonesome pine tree that
had been left for some reason or another, standing there like a sentinel. I could shut my eyes
and see all the others standing, and almost hear the birds singing and the wind in the branches,
just as it is here." She seized his fingers in her other hand. "Harry," she said earnestly,
"I don't believe I can ever forget that experience, any more than I could have forgotten a
battlefield, were I to see one. I can shut my eyes now, and can see this place our dear little
wooded knoll wasted and blackened as that was."

The man twisted his shoulder uneasily and withdrew his hand.

"Harry," she said again, after a pause, "you must promise to leave this woods until the very
last. I suppose it must all be cut down some day, but I do not want to be here to see after
it is all over."

Thorpe remained silent.

"Men do not care much for keepsakes, do they, Harry?--they don't save letters and flowers as
we girls do--but even a man can feel the value of a great beautiful keepsake such as this,
can't he, dear? Our meeting-place--do you remember how I found you down there by the old pole
trail, staring as though you had seen a ghost?--and that beautiful, beautiful music! It must
always be our most sacred memory. Promise me you will save it until the very, very last."

Thorpe said nothing because he could not rally his faculties. The sentimental association connected
with the grove had actually never occurred to him. His keepsakes were impressions which he
carefully guarded in his memory. To the natural masculine indifference toward material bits
of sentiment he had added the instinct of the strictly portable early developed in the rover.
He had never even possessed a photograph of his sister. Now this sudden discovery that such
things might be part of the woof of another person's spiritual garment came to him ready-grown
to the proportions of a problem.

In selecting the districts for the season's cut, he had included in his estimates this very
grove. Since then he had seen no reason for changing his decision. The operations would not
commence until winter. By that time the lovers would no longer care to use it as at present.
Now rapidly he passed in review a dozen expedients by which his plan might be modified to permit
of the grove's exclusion. His practical mind discovered flaws in every one. Other bodies of
timber promising a return of ten thousand dollars were not to be found near the river, and
time now lacked for the cutting of roads to more distant forties.

"Hilda," he broke in abruptly at last, "the men you hear are clearing a road to this very timber."

"What do you mean?" she asked.

"This timber is marked for cutting this very winter."

She had not a suspicion of the true state of affairs. "Isn't it lucky I spoke of it!" she exclaimed.
"How could you have forgotten to countermand the order! You must see to it to-day; now!"

She sprang up impulsively and stood waiting for him. He arose more slowly. Even before he spoke
her eyes dilated with the shock from her quick intuitions.

"Hilda, I cannot," he said.

She stood very still for some seconds.

"Why not?" she asked quietly.

"Because I have not time to cut a road through to another bunch of pine. It is this or nothing."

"Why not nothing, then?"

"I want the money this will bring."

His choice of a verb was unfortunate. The employment of that one little word opened the girl's
mind to a flood of old suspicions which the frank charm of the northland had thrust outside.
Hilda Farrand was an heiress and a beautiful girl. She had been constantly reminded of the
one fact by the attempts of men to use flattery of the other as a key to her heart and her
fortune. From early girlhood she had been sought by the brilliant impecunious of two continents.
The continued experience had varnished her self-esteem with a glaze of cynicism sufficiently
consistent to protect it against any but the strongest attack. She believed in no man's protestations.
She distrusted every man's motives as far as herself was concerned. This attitude of mind was
not unbecoming in her for the simple reason that it destroyed none of her graciousness as regards
other human relations besides that of love. That men should seek her in matrimony from a selfish
motive was as much to be expected as that flies should seek the sugar bowl. She accepted the
fact as one of nature's laws, annoying enough but inevitable; a thing to guard against, but
not one of sufficient moment to grieve over.

With Thorpe, however, her suspicions had been lulled. There is something virile and genuine
about the woods and the men who inhabit them that strongly predisposes the mind to accept as
proved in their entirety all the other virtues. Hilda had fallen into this state of mind. She
endowed each of the men whom she encountered with all the robust qualities she had no difficulty
in recognizing as part of nature's charm in the wilderness. Now at a word her eyes were opened
to what she had done. She saw that she had assumed unquestioningly that her lover possessed
the qualities of his environment.

Not for a moment did she doubt the reality of her love. She had conceived one of those deep,
uplifting passions possible only to a young girl. But her cynical experience warned her that
the reality of that passion's object was not proven by any test besides the fallible one of
her own poetizing imagination. The reality of the ideal she had constructed might be a vanishable
quantity even though the love of it was not. So to the interview that ensued she brought, not
the partiality of a loving heart, nor even the impartiality of one sitting in judgment, but
rather the perverted prejudice of one who actually fears the truth.

"Will you tell me for what you want the money?" she asked.

The young man caught the note of distrust. At once, instinctively, his own confidence vanished.
He drew within himself, again beyond the power of justifying himself with the needed word.

"The firm needs it in the business," said he.

Her next question countered instantaneously.

"Does the firm need the money more than you do me?"

They stared at each other in the silence of the situation that had so suddenly developed. It
had come into being without their volition, as a dust cloud springs up on a plain.

"You do not mean that, Hilda," said Thorpe quietly. "It hardly comes to that."

"Indeed it does," she replied, every nerve of her fine organization strung to excitement. "I
should be more to you than any firm."

"Sometimes it is necessary to look after the bread and butter," Thorpe reminded her gently,
although he knew that was not the real reason at all.

"If your firm can't supply it, I can," she answered. "It seems strange that you won't grant
my first request of you, merely because of a little money."

"It isn't a little money," he objected, catching manlike at the practical question. "You don't
realize what an amount a clump of pine like this stands for. Just in saw logs, before it is
made into lumber, it will be worth about thirty thousand dollars,--of course there's the expense
of logging to pay out of that," he added, out of his accurate business conservatism, "but there's
ten thousand dollars' profit in it."

The girl, exasperated by cold details at such a time, blazed out. "I never heard anything so
ridiculous in my life!" she cried. "Either you are not at all the man I thought you, or you
have some better reason than you have given. Tell me, Harry; tell me at once. You don't know
what you are doing."

"The firm needs it, Hilda," said Thorpe, "in order to succeed. If we do not cut this pine,
we may fail."

In that he stated his religion. The duty of success was to him one of the loftiest of abstractions,
for it measured the degree of a man's efficiency in the station to which God had called him.
The money, as such, was nothing to him.

Unfortunately the girl had learned a different language. She knew nothing of the hardships,
the struggles, the delight of winning for the sake of victory rather than the sake of spoils.
To her, success meant getting a lot of money. The name by which Thorpe labelled his most sacred
principle, to her represented something base and sordid. She had more money herself than she
knew. It hurt her to the soul that the condition of a small money-making machine, as she considered
the lumber firm, should be weighed even for an instant against her love. It was a great deal
Thorpe's fault that she so saw the firm. He might easily have shown her the great forces and
principles for which it stood.

"If I were a man," she said, and her voice was tense, "if I were a man and loved a woman, I
would be ready to give up everything for her. My riches, my pride, my life, my honor, my soul
even,--they would be as nothing, as less than nothing to me,--if I loved. Harry, don't let
me think I am mistaken. Let this miserable firm of yours fail, if fail it must for lack of
my poor little temple of dreams," she held out her hands with a tender gesture of appeal. The
affair had gone beyond the preservation of a few trees. It had become the question of an ideal.
Gradually, in spite of herself, the conviction was forcing itself upon her that the man she
had loved was no different from the rest; that the greed of the dollar had corrupted him too.
By the mere yielding to her wishes, she wanted to prove the suspicion wrong.

Now the strange part of the whole situation was, that in two words Thorpe could have cleared
it. If he had explained that he needed the ten thousand dollars to help pay a note given to
save from ruin a foolish friend, he would have supplied to the affair just the higher motive
the girl's clear spirituality demanded. Then she would have shared enthusiastically in the
sacrifice, and been the more loving and repentant from her momentary doubt. All she needed
was that the man should prove himself actuated by a noble, instead of a sordid, motive. The
young man did not say the two words, because in all honesty he thought them unimportant. It
seemed to him quite natural that he should go on Wallace Carpenter's note. That fact altered
not a bit the main necessity of success. It was a man's duty to make the best of himself,--it
was Thorpe's duty to prove himself supremely efficient in his chosen calling; the mere coincidence
that his partner's troubles worked along the same lines meant nothing to the logic of the situation.
In stating baldly that he needed the money to assure the firm's existence, he imagined he had
adduced the strongest possible reason for his attitude. If the girl was not influenced by that,
the case was hopeless.

It was the difference of training rather than the difference of ideas. Both clung to unselfishness
as the highest reason for human action; but each expressed the thought in a manner incomprehensible
to the other.

"I cannot, Hilda," he answered steadily.

"You sell me for ten thousand dollars! I cannot believe it! Harry! Harry! Must I put it to
you as a choice? Don't you love me enough to spare me that?"

He did not reply. As long as it remained a dilemma, he would not reply. He was in the right.

"Do you need the money more than you do me? more than you do love?" she begged, her soul in
her eyes; for she was begging also for herself. "Think, Harry; it is the last chance!"

Once more he was face to face with a vital decision. To his surprise he discovered in his mind
no doubt as to what the answer should be. He experienced no conflict of mind; no hesitation;
for the moment, no regret. During all his woods life he had been following diligently the trail
he had blazed for his conduct. Now his feet carried him unconsciously to the same end. There
was no other way out. In the winter of his trouble the clipped trees alone guided him, and
at the end of them he found his decision. It is in crises of this sort, when a little reflection
or consideration would do wonders to prevent a catastrophe, that all the forgotten deeds, decisions,
principles, and thoughts of a man's past life combine solidly into the walls of fatality, so
that in spite of himself he finds he must act in accordance with them. In answer to Hilda's
question he merely inclined his head.

"I have seen a vision," said she simply, and lowered her head to conceal her eyes. Then she
looked at him again. "There can be nothing better than love," she said.

"Yes, one thing," said Thorpe, "the duty of success."

The man had stated his creed; the woman hers. The one is born perfect enough for love; the
other must work, must attain the completeness of a fulfilled function, must succeed, to deserve it.

She left him then, and did not see him again. Four days later the camping party left. Thorpe
sent Tim Shearer over, as his most efficient man, to see that they got off without difficulty,
but himself retired on some excuse to Camp Four. Three weeks gone in October he received a
marked newspaper announcing the engagement of Miss Hilda Farrand to Mr. Hildreth Morton of Chicago.

He had burned his ships, and stood now on an unfriendly shore. The first sacrifice to his jealous
god had been consummated, and now, live or die, he stood pledged to win his fight.

Chapter XLV

Winter set in early and continued late; which in the end was a good thing for the year's cut.
The season was capricious, hanging for days at a time at the brink of a thaw, only to stiffen
again into severe weather. This was trying on the nerves. For at each of these false alarms
the six camps fell into a feverish haste to get the job finished before the break-up. It was
really quite extraordinary how much was accomplished under the nagging spur of weather conditions
and the cruel rowelling of Thorpe.

The latter had now no thought beyond his work, and that was the thought of a madman. He had
been stern and unyielding enough before, goodness knows, but now he was terrible. His restless
energy permeated every molecule in the economic structure over which he presided, roused it
to intense vibration. Not for an instant was there a resting spell. The veriest chore-boy talked,
thought, dreamed of nothing but saw logs. Men whispered vaguely of a record cut. Teamsters
looked upon their success or failure to keep near the top on the day's haul as a signal victory
or a disgraceful defeat. The difficulties of snow, accident, topography which an ever-watchful
nature threw down before the rolling car of this industry, were swept aside like straws. Little
time was wasted and no opportunities. It did not matter how smoothly affairs happened to be
running for the moment, every advantage, even the smallest, was eagerly seized to advance the
work. A drop of five degrees during the frequent warm spells brought out the sprinklers, even
in dead of night; an accident was white-hot in the forge almost before the crack of the iron
had ceased to echo. At night the men fell into their bunks like sandbags, and their last conscious
thought, if indeed they had any at all, was of eagerness for the morrow in order that they
might push the grand total up another notch. It was madness; but it was the madness these men
loved.

For now to his old religion Thorpe had added a fanaticism, and over the fanaticism was gradually
creeping a film of doubt. To the conscientious energy which a sense of duty supplied, was added
the tremendous kinetic force of a love turned into other channels. And in the wild nights while
the other men slept, Thorpe's half-crazed brain was revolving over and over again the words
of the sentence he had heard from Hilda's lips: "There can be nothing better than love."

His actions, his mind, his very soul vehemently denied the proposition. He clung as ever to
his high Puritanic idea of man's purpose. But down deep in a very tiny, sacred corner of his
heart a very small voice sometimes made itself heard when other, more militant voices were
still: "It may be; it may be!"

The influence of this voice was practically nothing. It made itself heard occasionally. Perhaps
even, for the time being, its weight counted on the other side of the scale; for Thorpe took
pains to deny it fiercely, both directly and indirectly by increased exertions. But it persisted;
and once in a moon or so, when the conditions were quite favorable, it attained for an instant
a shred of belief.

Probably never since the Puritan days of New England has a community lived as sternly as did
that winter of 1888 the six camps under Thorpe's management. There was something a little inspiring
about it. The men fronted their daily work with the same grim-faced, clear-eyed steadiness
of veterans going into battle;--with the same confidence, the same sure patience that disposes
effectively of one thing before going on to the next. There was little merely excitable bustle;
there was no rest. Nothing could stand against such a spirit. Nothing did. The skirmishers
which the wilderness threw out, were brushed away. Even the inevitable delays seemed not so
much stoppages as the instant's pause of a heavy vehicle in a snow drift, succeeded by the
momentary acceleration as the plunge carried it through. In the main, and by large, the machine
moved steadily and inexorably.

And yet one possessed of the finer spiritual intuitions could not have shaken off the belief
in an impending struggle. The feel of it was in the air. Nature's forces were too mighty to
be so slightly overcome; the splendid energy developed in these camps too vast to be wasted
on facile success. Over against each other were two great powers, alike in their calm confidence,
animated with the loftiest and most dignified spirit of enmity. Slowly they were moving toward
each other. The air was surcharged with the electricity of their opposition. Just how the struggle
would begin was uncertain; but its inevitability was as assured as its magnitude. Thorpe knew
it, and shut his teeth, looking keenly about him. The Fighting Forty knew it, and longed for
the grapple to come. The other camps knew it, and followed their leader with perfect trust.
The affair was an epitome of the historic combats begun with David and Goliath. It was an affair
of Titans. The little courageous men watched their enemy with cat's eyes.

The last month of hauling was also one of snow. In this condition were few severe storms, but
each day a little fell. By and by the accumulation amounted to much. In the woods where the
wind could not get at it, it lay deep and soft above the tops of bushes. The grouse ate browse
from the slender hardwood tips like a lot of goldfinches, or precipitated themselves headlong
down through five feet of snow to reach the ground. Often Thorpe would come across the irregular
holes of their entrance. Then if he took the trouble to stamp about a little in the vicinity
with his snowshoes, the bird would spring unexpectedly from the clear snow, scattering a cloud
with its strong wings. The deer, herded together, tramped "yards" where the feed was good.
Between the yards ran narrow trails. When the animals went from one yard to another in these
trails, their ears and antlers alone were visible. On either side of the logging roads the
snow piled so high as to form a kind of rampart. When all this water in suspense should begin
to flow, and to seek its level in the water-courses of the district, the logs would have plenty
to float them, at least.

So late did the cold weather last that, even with the added plowing to do, the six camps beat
all records. On the banks at Camp One were nine million feet; the totals of all five amounted
to thirty-three million. About ten million of this was on French Creek; the remainder on the
main banks of the Ossawinamakee. Besides this the firm up-river, Sadler & Smith, had put up
some twelve million more. The drive promised to be quite an affair.

About the fifteenth of April attention became strained. Every day the mounting sun made heavy
attacks on the snow: every night the temperature dropped below the freezing point. The river
began to show more air holes, occasional open places. About the center the ice looked worn
and soggy. Someone saw a flock of geese high in the air. Then came rain.

One morning early, Long Pine Jim came into the men's camp bearing a huge chunk of tallow. This
he held against the hot stove until its surface had softened, when he began to swab liberal
quantities of grease on his spiked river shoes, which he fished out from under his bunk.

"She's comin', boys," said he.

He donned a pair of woolen trousers that had been chopped off at the knee, thick woolen stockings,
and the river shoes. Then he tightened his broad leather belt about his heavy shirt, cocked
his little hat over his ear, and walked over in the corner to select a peavey from the lot
the blacksmith had just put in shape. A peavey is like a cant-hook except that it is pointed
at the end. Thus it can be used either as a hook or a pike. At the same moment Shearer, similarly
attired and equipped, appeared in the doorway. The opening of the portal admitted a roar of
sound. The river was rising.

"Come on, boys, she's on!" said he sharply.

Outside, the cook and cookee were stowing articles in the already loaded wanigan. The scow
contained tents, blankets, provisions, and a portable stove. It followed the drive, and made
a camp wherever expediency demanded.

"Lively, boys, lively!" shouted Thorpe. "She'll be down on us before we know it!"

Above the soft creaking of dead branches in the wind sounded a steady roar, like the bellowing
of a wild beast lashing itself to fury. The freshet was abroad, forceful with the strength
of a whole winter's accumulated energy.

The men heard it and their eyes brightened with the lust of battle. They cheered.

Chapter XLVI

At the banks of the river, Thorpe rapidly issued his directions. The affair had been all prearranged.
During the week previous he and his foremen had reviewed the situation, examining the state
of the ice, the heads of water in the three dams. Immediately above the first rollways was
Dam Three with its two wide sluices through which a veritable flood could be loosened at will;
then four miles farther lay the rollways of Sadler & Smith, the up-river firm; and above them
tumbled over a forty-five foot ledge the beautiful Siscoe Falls; these first rollways of Thorpe's--spread
in the broad marsh flat below the dam--contained about eight millions; the rest of the season's
cut was scattered for thirty miles along the bed of the river.

Already the ice cementing the logs together had begun to weaken. The ice had wrenched and tugged
savagely at the locked timbers until they had, with a mighty effort, snapped asunder the bonds
of their hibernation. Now a narrow lane of black rushing water pierced the rollways, to boil
and eddy in the consequent jam three miles below.

To the foremen Thorpe assigned their tasks, calling them to him one by one, as a general calls
his aids.

"Moloney," said he to the big Irishman, "take your crew and break that jam. Then scatter your
men down to within a mile of the pond at Dam Two, and see that the river runs clear. You can
tent for a day or so at West Bend or some other point about half way down; and after that you
had better camp at the dam. Just as soon as you get logs enough in the pond, start to sluicing
them through the dam. You won't need more than four men there, if you keep a good head. You
can keep your gates open five or six hours. And Moloney."

"Yes, sir."

"I want you to be careful not to sluice too long. There is a bar just below the dam, and if
you try to sluice with the water too low, you'll center and jam there, as sure as shooting."

Bryan Moloney turned on his heel and began to pick his way down stream over the solidly banked
logs. Without waiting the command, a dozen men followed him. The little group bobbed away irregularly
into the distance, springing lightly from one timber to the other, holding their quaintly-fashioned
peaveys in the manner of a rope dancer's balancing pole. At the lowermost limit of the rollways,
each man pried a log into the water, and, standing gracefully erect on this unstable craft,
floated out down the current to the scene of his dangerous labor.

"Kerlie," went on Thorpe, "your crew can break rollways with the rest until we get the river
fairly filled, and then you can move on down stream as fast as you are needed. Scotty, you
will have the rear. Tim and I will boss the river."

At once the signal was given to Ellis, the dam watcher. Ellis and his assistants thereupon
began to pry with long iron bars at the ratchets of the heavy gates. The chore-boy bent attentively
over the ratchet-pin, lifting it delicately to permit another inch of raise, dropping it accurately
to enable the men at the bars to seize a fresh purchase. The river's roar deepened. Through
the wide sluice-ways a torrent foamed and tumbled. Immediately it spread through the brush
on either side to the limits of the freshet banks, and then gathered for its leap against the
uneasy rollways. Along the edge of the dark channel the face of the logs seemed to crumble
away. Farther in towards the banks where the weight of timber still outbalanced the weight
of the flood, the tiers grumbled and stirred, restless with the stream's calling. Far down
the river, where Bryan Moloney and his crew were picking at the jam, the water in eager streamlets
sought the interstices between the logs, gurgling excitedly like a mountain brook.

The jam creaked and groaned in response to the pressure. From its face a hundred jets of water
spurted into the lower stream. Logs up-ended here and there, rising from the bristling surface
slowly, like so many arms from lower depths. Above, the water eddied back foaming; logs shot
down from the rollways, paused at the slackwater, and finally hit with a hollow and resounding
BOOM! against the tail of the jam. A moment later they too up-ended, so becoming an integral
part of the "chevaux de frise."

Outlined against the sky, big Bryan Moloney stood directing the work. He had gone at the job
on the bias of indirection, picking out a passage at either side that the center might the
more easily "pull." He knew by the tenseness of the log he stood on that, behind the jam, power
had gathered sufficient to push the whole tangle down-stream. Now he was offering it the chance.
When they stepped on a small log they re-leaped immediately, leaving a swirl of foam where
the little timber had sunk under them; when they encountered one larger, they hesitated for
a barely perceptible instant. Thus their progression was of fascinating and graceful irregularity.
The other two ran the length of their footing, and, overleaping an open of water, landed heavily
and firmly on the very ends of two small floating logs. In this manner the force of the jump
rushed the little timbers end-on through the water. A cool and observant spectator might have
imagined that the broad timber carpet was changing a little its pattern, just as the earth
near the windows of an arrested railroad train seems for a moment to retrogress. Jimmy Powers
quietly stepped over it, just as it menaced his leg. Other logs in all directions up-ended.
The jam crew were forced continually to alter their positions, riding the changing timbers
bent-kneed, as a circus rider treads his four galloping horses.

The six men and Bryan Moloney--who, it will be remembered, were on top--worked until the last
moment. When the logs began to cave under them so rapidly that even the expert rivermen found
difficulty in "staying on top," the foreman set the example of hunting safety.

"She 'pulls,' boys," he yelled.

All but Jimmy Powers. He poised tense and eager on the crumbling face of the jam. Almost immediately
he saw what he wanted, and without pause sprang boldly and confidently ten feet straight downward,
to alight with accuracy on a single log floating free in the current. And then in the very
glory and chaos of the jam itself he was swept down-stream.

After a moment the constant acceleration in speed checked, then commenced perceptibly to slacken.
At once the rest of the crew began to ride down-stream. Each struck the caulks of his river
boots strongly into a log, and on such unstable vehicles floated miles with the current. From
time to time, as Bryan Moloney indicated, one of them went ashore. There, usually at a bend
of the stream where the likelihood of jamming was great, they took their stands. When necessary,
they ran out over the face of the river to separate a congestion likely to cause trouble. The
rest of the time they smoked their pipes.

At noon they ate from little canvas bags which had been filled that morning by the cookee.
At sunset they rode other logs down the river to where their camp had been made for them. There
they ate hugely, hung their ice-wet garments over a tall framework constructed around a monster
fire, and turned in on hemlock branches.

All night long the logs slipped down the moonlit current, silently, swiftly, yet without haste.
The porcupines invaded the sleeping camp. From the whole length of the river rang the hollow
BOOM, BOOM, BOOM, of timbers striking one against the other.

The drive was on.

Chapter XLVII

In the meantime the main body of the crew under Thorpe and his foremen were briskly tumbling
the logs into the current. Sometimes under the urging of the peaveys, but a single stick would
slide down; or again a double tier would cascade with the roar of a little Niagara. The men
had continually to keep on the tension of an alert, for at any moment they were called upon
to exercise their best judgment and quickness to keep from being carried downward with the
rush of the logs. Not infrequently a frowning sheer wall of forty feet would hesitate on the
brink of plunge. Then Shearer himself proved his right to the title of riverman.

Shearer wore caulks nearly an inch in length. He had been known to ride ten miles, without
shifting his feet, on a log so small that he could carry it without difficulty. For cool nerve
he was unexcelled.

"I don't need you boys here any longer," he said quietly.

When the men had all withdrawn, he walked confidently under the front of the rollway, glancing
with practiced eye at the perpendicular wall of logs over him. Then, as a man pries jack-straws,
he clamped his peavey and tugged sharply. At once the rollway flattened and toppled. A mighty
splash, a hurl of flying foam and crushing timbers, and the spot on which the riverman had
stood was buried beneath twenty feet of solid green wood. To Thorpe it seemed that Shearer
must have been overwhelmed, but the riverman always mysteriously appeared at one side or the
other, nonchalant, urging the men to work before the logs should have ceased to move. Tradition
claimed that only once in a long woods life had Shearer been forced to "take water" before
a breaking rollway: and then he saved his peavey. History stated that he had never lost a man
on the river, simply and solely because he invariably took the dangerous tasks upon himself.

As soon as the logs had caught the current, a dozen men urged them on. With their short peaveys,
the drivers were enabled to prevent the timbers from swirling in the eddies--one of the first
causes of a jam. At last, near the foot of the flats, they abandoned them to the stream, confident
that Moloney and his crew would see to their passage down the river.

In three days the rollways were broken. Now it became necessary to start the rear.

For this purpose Billy Camp, the cook, had loaded his cook-stove, a quantity of provisions,
and a supply of bedding, aboard a scow. The scow was built of tremendous hewn timbers, four
or five inches thick, to withstand the shock of the logs. At either end were long sweeps to
direct its course. The craft was perhaps forty feet long, but rather narrow, in order that
it might pass easily through the chute of a dam. It was called the "wanigan."

Billy Camp, his cookee, and his crew of two were now doomed to tribulation. The huge, unwieldy
craft from that moment was to become possessed of the devil. Down the white water of rapids
it would bump, smashing obstinately against boulders, impervious to the frantic urging of the
long sweeps; against the roots and branches of the streamside it would scrape with the perverseness
of a vicious horse; in the broad reaches it would sulk, refusing to proceed; and when expediency
demanded its pause, it would drag Billy Camp and his entire crew at the rope's end, while they
tried vainly to snub it against successively uprooted trees and stumps. When at last the wanigan
was moored fast for the night,--usually a mile or so below the spot planned,--Billy Camp pushed
back his battered old brown derby hat, the badge of his office, with a sigh of relief. To be
sure he and his men had still to cut wood, construct cooking and camp fires, pitch tents, snip
browse, and prepare supper for seventy men; but the hard work of the day was over. Billy Camp
did not mind rain or cold--he would cheerfully cook away with the water dripping from his battered
derby to his chubby and cold-purpled nose--but he did mind the wanigan. And the worst of it
was, he got no sympathy nor aid from the crew. From either bank he and his anxious struggling
assistants were greeted with ironic cheers and facetious remarks. The tribulations of the wanigan
were as the salt of life to the spectators.

Billy Camp tried to keep back of the rear in clear water, but when the wanigan so disposed,
he found himself jammed close in the logs. There he had a chance in his turn to become spectator,
and so to repay in kind some of the irony and facetiousness.

Along either bank, among the bushes, on sandbars, and in trees, hundreds and hundreds of logs
had been stranded when the main drive passed. These logs the rear crew were engaged in restoring
to the current. Here were the best of the Fighting Forty,--men with a reputation as "white-water
birlers"--men afraid of nothing.

Every morning the crews were divided into two sections under Kerlie and Jack Hyland. Each crew
had charge of one side of the river, with the task of cleaning it thoroughly of all stranded
and entangled logs. Scotty Parsons exercised a general supervisory eye over both crews. Shearer
and Thorpe traveled back and forth the length of the drive, riding the logs down stream, but
taking to a partly submerged pole trail when ascending the current. On the surface of the river
in the clear water floated two long graceful boats called bateaux. These were in charge of
expert boatmen,--men able to propel their craft swiftly forwards, backwards and sideways, through
all kinds of water. They carried in racks a great supply of pike-poles, peaveys, axes, rope
and dynamite, for use in various emergencies. Intense rivalry existed as to which crew "sacked"
the farthest down stream in the course of the day. There was no need to urge the men. Some
stood upon the logs, pushing mightily with the long pike-poles. Others, waist deep in the water,
clamped the jaws of their peaveys into the stubborn timbers, and, shoulder bent, slid them
slowly but surely into the swifter waters. Still others, lining up on either side of one of
the great brown tree trunks, carried it bodily to its appointed place. From one end of the
rear to the other, shouts, calls, warnings, and jokes flew back and forth. Once or twice a
vast roar of Homeric laughter went up as some unfortunate slipped and soused into the water.
When the current slacked, and the logs hesitated in their run, the entire crew hastened, bobbing
from log to log, down river to see about it. Then they broke the jam, standing surely on the
edge of the great darkness, while the ice water sucked in and out of their shoes.

Behind the rear Big Junko poled his bateau backwards and forwards exploding dynamite. Many
of the bottom tiers of logs in the rollways had been frozen down, and Big Junko had to loosen
them from the bed of the stream. He was a big man, this, as his nickname indicated, built of
many awkwardnesses. His cheekbones were high, his nose flat, his lips thick and slobbery. He
sported a wide, ferocious straggling mustache and long eye-brows, under which gleamed little
fierce eyes. His forehead sloped back like a beast's, but was always hidden by a disreputable
felt hat. Big Junko did not know much, and had the passions of a wild animal, but he was a
reckless riverman and devoted to Thorpe. Just now he exploded dynamite.

The sticks of powder were piled amidships. Big Junko crouched over them, inserting the fuses
and caps, closing the openings with soap, finally lighting them, and dropping them into the
water alongside, where they immediately sank. Then a few strokes of a short paddle took him
barely out of danger. He huddled down in his craft, waiting. One, two, three seconds passed.
Then a hollow boom shook the stream. A cloud of water sprang up, strangely beautiful. After
a moment the great brown logs rose suddenly to the surface from below, one after the other,
like leviathans of the deep. And Junko watched, dimly fascinated, in his rudimentary animal's
brain, by the sight of the power he had evoked to his aid.

When night came the men rode down stream to where the wanigan had made camp. There they slept,
often in blankets wetted by the wanigan's eccentricities, to leap to their feet at the first
cry in early morning. Some days it rained, in which case they were wet all the time. Almost
invariably there was a jam to break, though strangely enough almost every one of the old-timers
believed implicitly that "in the full of the moon logs will run free at night."

Thorpe and Tim Shearer nearly always slept in a dog tent at the rear; though occasionally they
passed the night at Dam Two, where Bryan Moloney and his crew were already engaged in sluicing
the logs through the chute.

The affair was simple enough. Long booms arranged in the form of an open V guided the drive
to the sluice gate, through which a smooth apron of water rushed to turmoil in an eddying pool
below. Two men tramped steadily backwards and forwards on the booms, urging the logs forward
by means of long pike poles to where the suction could seize them. Below the dam, the push
of the sluice water forced them several miles down stream, where the rest of Bryan Moloney's
crew took them in charge.

Thus through the wide gate nearly three-quarters of a million feet an hour could be run--a
quantity more than sufficient to keep pace with the exertions of the rear. The matter was,
of course, more or less delayed by the necessity of breaking out such rollways as they encountered
from time to time on the banks. At length, however, the last of the logs drifted into the wide
dam pool. The rear had arrived at Dam Two, and Thorpe congratulated himself that one stage
of his journey had been completed. Billy Camp began to worry about shooting the wanigan through
the sluice-way.

Chapter XLVIII

The rear had been tenting at the dam for two days, and was about ready to break camp, when
Jimmy Powers swung across the trail to tell them of the big jam.

Ten miles along the river bed, the stream dropped over a little half-falls into a narrow, rocky
gorge. It was always an anxious spot for the river drivers. In fact, the plunging of the logs
head-on over the fall had so gouged out the soft rock below, that an eddy of great power had
formed in the basin. Shearer and Thorpe had often discussed the advisability of constructing
an artificial apron of logs to receive the impact. Here, in spite of all efforts, the jam had
formed, first a little center of a few logs in the middle of the stream, dividing the current,
and shunting the logs to right and left; then "wings" growing out from either bank, built up
from logs shunted too violently; finally a complete stoppage of the channel, and the consequent
rapid piling up as the pressure of the drive increased. Now the bed was completely filled,
far above the level of the falls, by a tangle that defied the jam crew's best efforts.

The rear at once took the trail down the river. Thorpe and Shearer and Scotty Parsons looked
over the ground.

"She may 'pull,' if she gets a good start," decided Tim.

Without delay the entire crew was set to work. Nearly a hundred men can pick a great many logs
in the course of a day. Several times the jam started, but always "plugged" before the motion
had become irresistible. This was mainly because the rocky walls narrowed at a slight bend
to the west, so that the drive was throttled, as it were. It was hoped that perhaps the middle
of the jam might burst through here, leaving the wings stranded. The hope was groundless.

"We'll have to shoot," Shearer reluctantly decided.

The men were withdrawn. Scotty Parsons cut a sapling twelve feet long, and trimmed it. Big
Junko thawed his dynamite at a little fire, opening the ends of the packages in order that
the steam generated might escape. Otherwise the pressure inside the oiled paper of the package
was capable of exploding the whole affair. When the powder was warm, Scotty bound twenty of
the cartridges around the end of the sapling, adjusted a fuse in one of them, and soaped the
opening to exclude water. Then Big Junko thrust the long javelin down into the depths of the
jam, leaving a thin stream of smoke behind him as he turned away. With sinister, evil eye he
watched the smoke for an instant, then zigzagged awkwardly over the jam, the long, ridiculous
tails of his brown cutaway coat flopping behind him as he leaped. A scant moment later the
hoarse dynamite shouted.

Great chunks of timber shot to an inconceivable height; entire logs lifted bodily into the
air with the motion of a fish jumping; a fountain of water gleamed against the sun and showered
down in fine rain. The jam shrugged and settled. That was all; the "shot" had failed.

The men ran forward, examining curiously the great hole in the log formation.

"We'll have to flood her," said Thorpe.

So all the gates of the dam were raised, and the torrent tried its hand. It had no effect.
Evidently the affair was not one of violence, but of patience. The crew went doggedly to work.

Day after day the CLANK, CLANK, CLINK of the peaveys sounded with the regularity of machinery.
The only practicable method was to pick away the flank logs, leaving a long tongue pointing
down-stream from the center to start when it would. This happened time and again, but always
failed to take with it the main jam. It was cruel hard work; a man who has lifted his utmost
strength into a peavey knows that. Any but the Fighting Forty would have grumbled.

Collins, the bookkeeper, came up to view the tangle. Later a photographer from Marquette took
some views, which, being exhibited, attracted a great deal of attention, so that by the end
of the week a number of curiosity seekers were driving over every day to see the Big Jam. A
certain Chicago journalist in search of balsam health of lungs even sent to his paper a little
item. This, unexpectedly, brought Wallace Carpenter to the spot. Although reassured as to the
gravity of the situation, he remained to see.

The place was an amphitheater for such as chose to be spectators. They could stand or sit on
the summit of the gorge cliffs, overlooking the river, the fall, and the jam. As the cliff
was barely sixty feet high, the view lacked nothing in clearness.

At last Shearer became angry.

"We've been monkeying long enough," said he. "Next time we'll leave a center that WILL go out.
We'll shut the dams down tight and dry-pick out two wings that'll start her."

The dams were first run at full speed, and then shut down. Hardly a drop of water flowed in
the bed of the stream. The crews set laboriously to work to pull and roll the logs out in such
flat fashion that a head of water should send them out.

This was even harder work than the other, for they had not the floating power of water to help
them in the lifting. As usual, part of the men worked below, part above.

Jimmy Powers, curly-haired, laughing-faced, was irrepressible. He badgered the others until
they threw bark at him and menaced him with their peaveys. Always he had at his tongue's end
the proper quip for the occasion, so that in the long run the work was lightened by him. When
the men stopped to think at all, they thought of Jimmy Powers with very kindly hearts, for
it was known that he had had more trouble than most, and that the coin was not made too small
for him to divide with a needy comrade. To those who had seen his mask of whole-souled good-nature
fade into serious sympathy, Jimmy Powers's poor little jokes were very funny indeed.

"Did 'je see th' Swede at the circus las' summer?" he would howl to Red Jacket on the top tier.

"No," Red Jacket would answer, "was he there?"

"Yes," Jimmy Powers would reply; then, after a pause--"in a cage!"

It was a poor enough jest, yet if you had been there, you would have found that somehow the
log had in the meantime leaped of its own accord from that difficult position.

Thorpe approved thoroughly of Jimmy Powers; he thought him a good influence. He told Wallace
so, standing among the spectators on the cliff-top.

"He is all right," said Thorpe. "I wish I had more like him. The others are good boys, too."

Five men were at the moment tugging futilely at a reluctant timber. They were attempting to
roll one end of it over the side of another projecting log, but were continually foiled, because
the other end was jammed fast. Each bent his knees, inserting his shoulder under the projecting
peavey stock, to straighten in a mighty effort.

"Hire a boy!" "Get some powder of Junko!" "Have Jimmy talk it out!" "Try that little one over
by the corner," called the men on top of the jam.

Everybody laughed, of course. It was a fine spring day, clear-eyed and crisp, with a hint of
new foliage in the thick buds of the trees. The air was so pellucid that one distinguished
without difficulty the straight entrance to the gorge a mile away, and even the West Bend,
fully five miles distant.

Jimmy Powers took off his cap and wiped his forehead.

"You boys," he remarked politely, "think you are boring with a mighty big auger."

"My God!" screamed one of the spectators on top of the cliff.

At the same instant Wallace Carpenter seized his friend's arm and pointed.

Down the bed of the stream from the upper bend rushed a solid wall of water several feet high.
It flung itself forward with the headlong impetus of a cascade. Even in the short interval
between the visitor's exclamation and Carpenter's rapid gesture, it had loomed into sight,
twisted a dozen trees from the river bank, and foamed into the entrance of the gorge. An instant
later it collided with the tail of the jam.

Even in the railroad rush of those few moments several things happened. Thorpe leaped for a
rope. The crew working on top of the jam ducked instinctively to right and left and began to
scramble towards safety. The men below, at first bewildered and not comprehending, finally
understood, and ran towards the face of the jam with the intention of clambering up it. There
could be no escape in the narrow canyon below, the walls of which rose sheer.

Then the flood hit square. It was the impact of resistible power. A great sheet of water rose
like surf from the tail of the jam; a mighty cataract poured down over its surface, lifting
the free logs; from either wing timbers crunched, split, rose suddenly into wracked prominence,
twisted beyond the semblance of themselves. Here and there single logs were even projected
bodily upwards, as an apple seed is shot from between the thumb and forefinger. Then the jam moved.

Scotty Parsons, Jack Hyland, Red Jacket, and the forty or fifty top men had reached the shore.
By the wriggling activity which is a riverman's alone, they succeeded in pulling themselves
beyond the snap of death's jaws. It was a narrow thing for most of them, and a miracle for some.

Jimmy Powers, Archie Harris, Long Pine Jim, Big Nolan, and Mike Moloney, the brother of Bryan,
were in worse case. They were, as has been said, engaged in "flattening" part of the jam about
eight or ten rods below the face of it. When they finally understood that the affair was one
of escape, they ran towards the jam, hoping to climb out. Then the crash came. They heard the
roar of the waters, the wrecking of the timbers, they saw the logs bulge outwards in anticipation
of the break. Immediately they turned and fled, they knew not where.

All but Jimmy Powers. He stopped short in his tracks, and threw his battered old felt hat defiantly
full into the face of the destruction hanging over him. Then, his bright hair blowing in the
wind of death, he turned to the spectators standing helpless and paralyzed, forty feet above him.

It was an instant's impression,--the arrested motion seen in the flash of lightning--and yet
to the onlookers it had somehow the quality of time. For perceptible duration it seemed to
them they stared at the contrast between the raging hell above and the yet peaceable river
bed below. They were destined to remember that picture the rest of their natural lives, in
such detail that each one of them could almost have reproduced it photographically by simply
closing his eyes. Yet afterwards, when they attempted to recall definitely the impression,
they knew it could have lasted but a fraction of a second, for the reason that, clear and distinct
in each man's mind, the images of the fleeing men retained definite attitudes. It was the instantaneous
photography of events.

"So long, boys," they heard Jimmy Powers's voice. Then the rope Thorpe had thrown fell across
a caldron of tortured waters and of tossing logs.

Chapter XLIX

During perhaps ten seconds the survivors watched the end of Thorpe's rope trailing in the flood.
Then the young man with a deep sigh began to pull it towards him.

At once a hundred surmises, questions, ejaculations broke out.

"What happened?" cried Wallace Carpenter.

"What was that man's name?" asked the Chicago journalist with the eager instinct of his profession.

"This is terrible, terrible, terrible!" a white-haired physician from Marquette kept repeating
over and over.

A half dozen ran towards the point of the cliff to peer down stream, as though they could hope
to distinguish anything in that waste of flood water.

"The dam's gone out," replied Thorpe. "I don't understand it. Everything was in good shape,
as far as I could see. It didn't act like an ordinary break. The water came too fast. Why,
it was as dry as a bone until just as that wave came along. An ordinary break would have eaten
through little by little before it burst, and Davis should have been able to stop it. This
came all at once, as if the dam had disappeared. I don't see."

His mind of the professional had already began to query causes.

"How about the men?" asked Wallace. "Isn't there something I can do?"

"You can head a hunt down the river," answered Thorpe. "I think it is useless until the water
goes down. Poor Jimmy. He was one of the best men I had. I wouldn't have had this happen--"

The horror of the scene was at last beginning to filter through numbness into Wallace Carpenter's
impressionable imagination.

"No, no!" he cried vehemently. "There is something criminal about it to me! I'd rather lose
every log in the river!"

Thorpe looked at him curiously. "It is one of the chances of war," said he, unable to refrain
from the utterance of his creed. "We all know it."

"I'd better divide the crew and take in both banks of the river," suggested Wallace in his
constitutional necessity of doing something.

"See if you can't get volunteers from this crowd," suggested Thorpe. "I can let you have two
men to show you trails. If you can make it that way, it will help me out. I need as many of
the crew as possible to use this flood water."

"Oh, Harry," cried Carpenter, shocked. "You can't be going to work again to-day after that
horrible sight, before we have made the slightest effort to recover the bodies!"

"If the bodies can be recovered, they shall be," replied Thorpe quietly. "But the drive will
not wait. We have no dams to depend on now, you must remember, and we shall have to get out
on freshet water."

"Your men won't work. I'd refuse just as they will!" cried Carpenter, his sensibilities still
suffering.

Thorpe smiled proudly. "You do not know them. They are mine. I hold them in the hollow of my hand!"

"By Jove!" cried the journalist in sudden enthusiasm. "By Jove! that is magnificent!"

The men of the river crew had crouched on their narrow footholds while the jam went out. Each
had clung to his peavey, as is the habit of rivermen. Down the current past their feet swept
the debris of flood. Soon logs began to swirl by,--at first few, then many from the remaining
rollways which the river had automatically broken. In a little time the eddy caught up some
of these logs, and immediately the inception of another jam threatened. The rivermen, without
hesitation, as calmly as though catastrophe had not thrown the weight of its moral terror against
their stoicism, sprang, peavey in hand, to the insistent work.

"By Jove!" said the journalist again. "That is magnificent! They are working over the spot
where their comrades died!"

Thorpe's face lit with gratification. He turned to the young man.

"You see," he said in proud simplicity.

With the added danger of freshet water, the work went on.

At this moment Tim Shearer approached from inland, his clothes dripping wet, but his face retaining
its habitual expression of iron calmness. "Anybody caught?" was his first question as he drew near.

"Five men under the face," replied Thorpe briefly.

Shearer cast a glance at the river. He needed to be told no more.

"I was afraid of it," said he. "The rollways must be all broken out. It's saved us that much,
but the freshet water won't last long. It's going to be a close squeak to get 'em out now.
Don't exactly figure on what struck the dam. Thought first I'd go right up that way, but then
I came down to see about the boys."

Carpenter could not understand this apparent callousness on the part of men in whom he had
always thought to recognize a fund of rough but genuine feeling. To him the sacredness of death
was incompatible with the insistence of work. To these others the two, grim necessity, went
hand in hand.

"Where were you?" asked Thorpe of Shearer.

"On the pole trail. I got in a little, as you see."

In reality the foreman had had a close call for his life. A toughly-rooted basswood alone had
saved him.

"We'd better go up and take a look," he suggested. "Th' boys has things going here all right."

The two men turned towards the brush.

"Hi, Tim," called a voice behind them.

Red Jacket appeared clambering up the cliff.

"Jack told me to give this to you," he panted, holding out a chunk of strangely twisted wood.

"Where'd he get this?" inquired Thorpe, quickly. "It's a piece of the dam," he explained to
Wallace, who had drawn near.

"Picked it out of the current," replied the man.

The foreman and his boss bent eagerly over the morsel. Then they stared with solemnity into
each other's eyes.

"Dynamite, by God!" exclaimed Shearer.

Chapter L

For a moment the three men stared at each other without speaking.

"What does it mean?" almost whispered Carpenter.

"Mean? Foul play!" snarled Thorpe. "Come on, Tim."

The two struck into the brush, threading the paths with the ease of woodsmen. It was necessary
to keep to the high inland ridges for the simple reason that the pole trail had by now become
impassable. Wallace Carpenter, attempting to follow them, ran, stumbled, and fell through brush
that continually whipped his face and garments, continually tripped his feet. All he could
obtain was a vanishing glimpse of his companions' backs. Thorpe and his foreman talked briefly.

"It's Morrison and Daly," surmised Shearer. "I left them 'count of a trick like that. They
wanted me to take charge of Perkinson's drive and hang her a purpose. I been suspecting something--they've
been layin' too low."

Thorpe answered nothing. Through the site of the old dam they found a torrent pouring from
the narrowed pond, at the end of which the dilapidated wings flapping in the current attested
the former structure. Davis stood staring at the current.

Thorpe strode forward and shook him violently by the shoulder.

"How did this happen?" he demanded hoarsely. "Speak!"

The man turned to him in a daze. "I don't know," he answered.

"You ought to know. How was that 'shot' exploded? How did they get in here without you seeing
them? Answer me!"

"I don't know," repeated the man. "I jest went over in th' bresh to kill a few pa'tridges,
and when I come back I found her this way. I wasn't goin' to close down for three hours yet,
and I thought they was no use a hangin' around here."

"Were you hired to watch this dam, or weren't you?" demanded the tense voice of Thorpe. "Answer
me, you fool."

"Yes, I was," returned the man, a shade of aggression creeping into his voice.

"Well, you've done it well. You've cost me my dam, and you've killed five men. If the crew
finds out about you, you'll go over the falls, sure. You get out of here! Pike! Don't you ever
let me see your face again!"

The man blanched as he thus learned of his comrades' deaths. Thorpe thrust his face at him,
lashed by circumstances beyond his habitual self-control.

"It's men like you who make the trouble," he stormed. "Damn fools who say they didn't mean
to. It isn't enough not to mean to. They should MEAN NOT TO! I don't ask you to think. I just
want you to do what I tell you, and you can't even do that."

He threw his shoulder into a heavy blow that reached the dam watcher's face, and followed it
immediately by another. Then Shearer caught his arm, motioning the dazed and bloody victim
of the attack to get out of sight. Thorpe shook his foreman off with one impatient motion,
and strode away up the river, his head erect, his eyes flashing, his nostrils distended.

"I reckon you'd better mosey," Shearer dryly advised the dam watcher; and followed.

Late in the afternoon the two men reached Dam Three, or rather the spot on which Dam Three
had stood. The same spectacle repeated itself here, except that Ellis, the dam watcher, was
nowhere to be seen.

"The dirty whelps," cried Thorpe, "they did a good job!"

He thrashed about here and there, and so came across Ellis blindfolded and tied. When released,
the dam watcher was unable to give any account of his assailants.

"They came up behind me while I was cooking," he said. "One of 'em grabbed me and the other
one kivered my eyes. Then I hears the 'shot' and knows there's trouble."

Thorpe listened in silence. Shearer asked a few questions. After the low-voiced conversation
Thorpe arose abruptly.

"Where you going?" asked Shearer.

But the young man did not reply. He swung, with the same long, nervous stride, into the down-river
trail.

Until late that night the three men--for Ellis insisted on accompanying them--hurried through
the forest. Thorpe walked tirelessly, upheld by his violent but repressed excitement. When
his hat fell from his head, he either did not notice the fact, or did not care to trouble himself
for its recovery, so he glanced through the trees bare-headed, his broad white brow gleaming
in the moonlight. Shearer noted the fire in his eyes, and from the coolness of his greater
age, counselled moderation.

"I wouldn't stir the boys up," he panted, for the pace was very swift. "They'll kill some one
over there, it'll be murder on both sides."

He received no answer. About midnight they came to the camp.

Two great fires leaped among the trees, and the men, past the idea of sleep, grouped between
them, talking. The lesson of twisted timbers was not lost to their experience, and the evening
had brought its accumulation of slow anger against the perpetrators of the outrage. These men
were not given to oratorical mouthings, but their low-voiced exchanges between the puffings
of a pipe led to a steadier purpose than that of hysteria. Even as the woodsmen joined their
group, they had reached the intensity of execution. Across their purpose Thorpe threw violently
his personality.

"You must not go," he commanded.

Through their anger they looked at him askance.

"I forbid it," Thorpe cried.

They shrugged their indifference and arose. This was an affair of caste brotherhood; and the
blood of their mates cried out to them.

"The work," Thorpe shouted hoarsely. "The work! We must get those logs out! We haven't time!"

But the Fighting Forty had not Thorpe's ideal. Success meant a day's work well done; while
vengeance stood for a righting of the realities which had been unrighteously overturned. Thorpe's
dry-eyed, burning, almost mad insistence on the importance of the day's task had not its ordinary
force. They looked upon him from a standpoint apart, calmly, dispassionately, as one looks
on a petulant child. The grim call of tragedy had lifted them above little mundane things.

Then swiftly between the white, strained face of the madman trying to convince his heart that
his mind had been right, and the fanatically exalted rivermen, interposed the sanity of Radway.
The old jobber faced the men calmly, almost humorously, and somehow the very bigness of the
man commanded attention. When he spoke, his coarse, good-natured, everyday voice fell through
the tense situation, clarifying it, restoring it to the normal.

"You fellows make me sick," said he. "You haven't got the sense God gave a rooster. Don't you
see you're playing right in those fellows' hands? What do you suppose they dynamited them dams
for? To kill our boys? Don't you believe it for a minute. They never dreamed we was dry pickin'
that jam. They sent some low-lived whelp down there to hang our drive, and by smoke it looks
like they was going to succeed, thanks to you mutton-heads.

"'Spose you go over and take 'em apart; what then? You have a scrap; probably you lick 'em."
The men growled ominously, but did not stir. "You whale daylights out of a lot of men who probably
don't know any more about this here shooting of our dams than a hog does about a ruffled shirt.
Meanwhile your drive hangs. Well? Well? Do you suppose the men who were back of that shooting,
do you suppose Morrison and Daly give a tinker's dam how many men of theirs you lick? What
they want is to hang our drive. If they hang our drive, it's cheap at the price of a few black
eyes."

The speaker paused and grinned good-humoredly at the men's attentive faces. Then suddenly his
own became grave, and he swung into his argument all the impressiveness of his great bulk,

"Do you want to know how to get even?" he asked, shading each word. "Do you want to know how
to make those fellows sing so small you can't hear them? Well, I'll tell you. TAKE OUT THIS
DRIVE! Do it in spite of them! Show them they're no good when they buck up against Thorpe's
One! Our boys died doing their duty--the way a riverman ought to. NOW HUMP YOURSELVES! Don't
let 'em die in vain!"

The crew stirred uneasily, looking at each other for approval of the conversion each had experienced.
Radway, seizing the psychological moment, turned easily toward the blaze.

"Better turn in, boys, and get some sleep," he said. "We've got a hard day to-morrow." He stooped
to light his pipe at the fire. When he had again straightened his back after rather a prolonged
interval, the group had already disintegrated. A few minutes later the cookee scattered the
brands of the fire from before a sleeping camp.

Thorpe had listened non-committally to the colloquy. He had maintained the suspended attitude
of a man who is willing to allow the trial of other methods, but who does not therefore relinquish
his own. At the favorable termination of the discussion he turned away without comment. He
expected to gain this result. Had he been in a more judicial state of mind he might have perceived
at last the reason, in the complicated scheme of Providence, for his long connection with John
Radway.

Chapter LI

Before daylight Injin Charley drifted into the camp to find Thorpe already out. With a curt
nod the Indian seated himself by the fire, and, producing a square plug of tobacco and a knife,
began leisurely to fill his pipe. Thorpe watched him in silence. Finally Injin Charley spoke
in the red man's clear-cut, imitative English, a pause between each sentence.

"I find trail three men," said he. "Both dam, three men. One man go down river. Those men have
cork-boot. One man no have cork-boot. He boss." The Indian suddenly threw his chin out, his
head back, half closed his eyes in a cynical squint. As by a flash Dyer, the scaler, leered
insolently from behind the Indian's stolid mask.

"How do you know?" said Thorpe.

For answer the Indian threw his shoulders forward in Dyer's nervous fashion.

"He make trail big by the toe, light by the heel. He make trail big on inside."

Charley arose and walked, after Dyer's springy fashion, illustrating his point in the soft
wood ashes of the immediate fireside.

Thorpe looked doubtful. "I believe you are right, Charley," said he. "But it is mighty little
to go on. You can't be sure."

"I sure," replied Charley.

He puffed strongly at the heel of his smoke, then arose, and without farewell disappeared in
the forest.

Thorpe ranged the camp impatiently, glancing often at the sky. At length he laid fresh logs
on the fire and aroused the cook. It was bitter cold in the early morning. After a time the
men turned out of their own accord, at first yawning with insufficient rest, and then becoming
grimly tense as their returned wits reminded them of the situation.

From that moment began the wonderful struggle against circumstances which has become a by-word
among rivermen everywhere. A forty-day drive had to go out in ten. A freshet had to float out
thirty million feet of logs. It was tremendous; as even the men most deeply buried in the heavy
hours of that time dimly realized. It was epic; as the journalist, by now thoroughly aroused,
soon succeeded in convincing his editors and his public. Fourteen, sixteen, sometimes eighteen
hours a day, the men of the driving crew worked like demons. Jams had no chance to form. The
phenomenal activity of the rear crew reduced by half the inevitable sacking. Of course, under
the pressure, the lower dam had gone out. Nothing was to be depended on but sheer dogged grit.
Far up-river Sadler & Smith had hung their drive for the season. They had stretched heavy booms
across the current, and so had resigned themselves to a definite but not extraordinary loss.
Thorpe had at least a clear river.

Wallace Carpenter could not understand how human flesh and blood endured. The men themselves
had long since reached the point of practical exhaustion, but were carried through by the fire
of their leader. Work was dogged until he stormed into sight; then it became frenzied. He seemed
to impart to those about him a nervous force and excitability as real as that induced by brandy.
When he looked at a man from his cavernous, burning eyes, that man jumped.

It was all willing enough work. Several definite causes, each adequate alone to something extraordinary,
focussed to the necessity. His men worshipped Thorpe; the idea of thwarting the purposes of
their comrade's murderers retained its strength; the innate pride of caste and craft--the sturdiest
virtue of the riverman--was in these picked men increased to the dignity of a passion. The
great psychological forces of a successful career gathered and made head against the circumstances
which such careers always arouse in polarity.

Impossibilities were puffed aside like thistles. The men went at them headlong. They gave way
before the rush. Thorpe always led. Not for a single instant of the day nor for many at night
was he at rest. He was like a man who has taken a deep breath to reach a definite goal, and
who cannot exhale until the burst of speed be over. Instinctively he seemed to realize that
a let-down would mean collapse.

After the camp had fallen asleep, he would often lie awake half of the few hours of their night,
every muscle tense, staring at the sky. His mind saw definitely every detail of the situation
as he had last viewed it. In advance his imagination stooped and sweated to the work which
his body was to accomplish the next morning. Thus he did everything twice. Then at last the
tension would relax. He would fall into uneasy sleep. But twice that did not follow. Through
the dissolving iron mist of his striving, a sharp thought cleaved like an arrow. It was that
after all he did not care. The religion of Success no longer held him as its devoutest worshiper.
He was throwing the fibers of his life into the engine of toil, not because of moral duty,
but because of moral pride. He meant to succeed in order to prove to himself that he had not
been wrong.

The pain of the arrow-wound always aroused him from his doze with a start. He grimly laughed
the thought out of court. To his waking moments his religion was sincere, was real. But deep
down in his sub-consciousness, below his recognition, the other influence was growing like
a weed. Perhaps the vision, not the waking, had been right. Perhaps that far-off beautiful
dream of a girl which Thorpe's idealism had constructed from; the reactionary necessities of
Thorpe's harsh life had been more real than his forest temples of his ruthless god! Perhaps
there were greater things than to succeed, greater things than success. Perhaps, after all,
the Power that put us here demands more that we cleave one to the other in loving-kindness
than that we learn to blow the penny whistles it has tossed us. And then the keen, poignant
memory of the dream girl stole into the young man's mind, and in agony was immediately thrust
forth. He would not think of her. He had given her up. He had cast the die. For success he
had bartered her, in the noblest, the loftiest spirit of devotion. He refused to believe that
devotion fanatical; he refused to believe that he had been wrong. In the still darkness of
the night he would rise and steal to the edge of the dully roaring stream. There, his eyes
blinded and his throat choked with a longing more manly than tears, he would reach out and
smooth the round rough coats of the great logs.

"We'll do it!" he whispered to them--and to himself. "We'll do it! We can't be wrong. God would
not have let us!"

Chapter LII

Wallace Carpenter's search expedition had proved a failure, as Thorpe had foreseen, but at
the end of the week, when the water began to recede, the little beagles ran upon a mass of
flesh and bones. The man was unrecognizable, either as an individual or as a human being. The
remains were wrapped in canvas and sent for interment in the cemetery at Marquette. Three of
the others were never found. The last did not come to light until after the drive had quite
finished.

Down at the booms the jam crew received the drive as fast as it came down. From one crib to
another across the broad extent of the river's mouth, heavy booms were chained end to end effectually
to close the exit to Lake Superior. Against these the logs caromed softly in the slackened
current, and stopped. The cribs were very heavy with slanting, instead of square, tops, in
order that the pressure might be downwards instead of sidewise. This guaranteed their permanency.
In a short time the surface of the lagoon was covered by a brown carpet of logs running in
strange patterns like windrows of fallen grain. Finally, across the straight middle distance
of the river, appeared little agitated specks leaping back and forth. Thus the rear came in
sight and the drive was all but over.

Up till now the weather had been clear but oppressively hot for this time of year. The heat
had come suddenly and maintained itself well. It had searched out with fierce directness all
the patches of snow lying under the thick firs and balsams of the swamp edge, it had shaken
loose the anchor ice of the marsh bottoms, and so had materially aided the success of the drive
by increase of water. The men had worked for the most part in undershirts. They were as much
in the water as out of it, for the icy bath had become almost grateful. Hamilton, the journalist,
who had attached himself definitely to the drive, distributed bunches of papers, in which the
men read that the unseasonable condition prevailed all over the country.

At length, however, it gave signs of breaking. The sky, which had been of a steel blue, harbored
great piled thunder-heads. Occasionally athwart the heat shot a streak of cold air. Towards
evening the thunder-heads shifted and finally dissipated, to be sure, but the portent was there.

Hamilton's papers began to tell of disturbances in the South and West. A washout in Arkansas
derailed a train; a cloud-burst in Texas wiped out a camp; the cities along the Ohio River
were enjoying their annual flood with the usual concomitants of floating houses and boats in
the streets. The men wished they had some of that water here.

So finally the drive approached its end and all concerned began in anticipation to taste the
weariness that awaited them. They had hurried their powers. The few remaining tasks still confronting
them, all at once seemed more formidable than what they had accomplished. They could not contemplate
further exertion. The work for the first time became dogged, distasteful. Even Thorpe was infected.
He, too, wanted more than anything else to drop on the bed in Mrs. Hathaway's boarding house,
there to sponge from his mind all colors but the dead gray of rest. There remained but a few
things to do. A mile of sacking would carry the drive beyond the influence of freshet water.
After that there would be no hurry.

He looked around at the hard, fatigue-worn faces of the men about him, and in the obsession
of his wearied mood he suddenly felt a great rush of affection for these comrades who had so
unreservedly spent themselves for his affair. Their features showed exhaustion, it is true,
but their eyes gleamed still with the steady half-humorous purpose of the pioneer. When they
caught his glance they grinned good-humoredly.

All at once Thorpe turned and started for the bank.

"That'll do, boys," he said quietly to the nearest group. "She's down!"

It was noon. The sackers looked up in surprise. Behind them, to their very feet, rushed the
soft smooth slope of Hemlock Rapids. Below them flowed a broad, peaceful river. The drive had
passed its last obstruction. To all intents and purposes it was over.

Calmly, with matter-of-fact directness, as though they had not achieved the impossible; as
though they, a handful, had not cheated nature and powerful enemies, they shouldered their
peaveys and struck into the broad wagon road. In the middle distance loomed the tall stacks
of the mill with the little board town about it. Across the eye spun the thread of the railroad.
Far away gleamed the broad expanses of Lake Superior.

The cook had, early that morning, moored the wanigan to the bank. One of the teamsters from
town had loaded the men's "turkeys" on his heavy wagon. The wanigan's crew had thereupon trudged
into town.

The men paired off naturally and fell into a dragging, dogged walk. Thorpe found himself unexpectedly
with Big Junko. For a time they plodded on without conversation. Then the big man ventured
a remark.

"I'm glad she's over," said he. "I got a good stake comin'."

"Yes," replied Thorpe indifferently.

"I got most six hundred dollars comin'," persisted Junko.

"Might as well be six hundred cents," commented Thorpe, "it'd make you just as drunk."

Big Junko laughed self-consciously but without the slightest resentment.

"That's all right," said he, "but you betcher life I don't blow this stake."

"I've heard that talk before," shrugged Thorpe.

"Yes, but this is different. I'm goin' to git married on this. How's THAT?"

Thorpe, his attention struck at last, stared at his companion. He noted the man's little twinkling
animal eyes, his high cheek bones, his flat nose, his thick and slobbery lips, his straggling,
fierce mustache and eyebrows, his grotesque long-tailed cutaway coat. So to him, too, this
primitive man reaching dully from primordial chaos, the great moment had yielded its vision.

"Who is she?" he asked abruptly.

"She used to wash at Camp Four."

Thorpe dimly remembered the woman now--an overweighted creature with a certain attraction of
elfishly blowing hair, with a certain pleasing full-cheeked, full-bosomed health.

The two walked on in re-established silence. Finally the giant, unable to contain himself longer,
broke out again.

"I do like that woman," said he with a quaintly deliberate seriousness. "That's the finest
woman in this district."

Thorpe felt the quick moisture rush to his eyes. There was something inexpressibly touching
in those simple words as Big Junko uttered them.

"And when you are married," he asked, "what are you going to do? Are you going to stay on the
river?"

"No, I'm goin' to clear a farm. The woman she says that's the thing to do. I like the river,
too. But you bet when Carrie says a thing, that's plenty good enough for Big Junko."

"Suppose," suggested Thorpe, irresistibly impelled towards the attempt, "suppose I should offer
you two hundred dollars a month to stay on the river. Would you stay?"

"Carrie don't like it," replied Junko.

"Two hundred dollars is big wages," persisted Thorpe. "It's twice what I give Radway."

"I'd like to ask Carrie."

"No, take it or leave it now."

"Well, Carrie says she don't like it," answered the riverman with a sigh.

Thorpe looked at his companion fixedly. Somehow the bestial countenance had taken on an attraction
of its own. He remembered Big Junko as a wild beast when his passions were aroused, as a man
whose honesty had been doubted.

"You've changed, Junko," said he.

"I know," said the big man. "I been a scalawag all right. I quit it. I don't know much, but
Carrie she's smart, and I'm goin' to do what she says. When you get stuck on a good woman like
Carrie, Mr. Thorpe, you don't give much of a damn for anything else. Sure! That's right! It's
the biggest thing top o' earth!"

Here it was again, the opposing creed. And from such a source. Thorpe's iron will contracted again.

"A woman is no excuse for a man's neglecting his work," he snapped.

"Shorely not," agreed Junko serenely. "I aim to finish out my time all right, Mr. Thorpe. Don't
you worry none about that. I done my best for you. And," went on the riverman in the expansion
of this unwonted confidence with his employer, "I'd like to rise to remark that you're the
best boss I ever had, and we boys wants to stay with her till there's skating in hell!"

"All right," murmured Thorpe indifferently.

His momentary interest had left him. Again the reactionary weariness dragged at his feet. Suddenly
the remaining half mile to town seemed very long indeed.

Chapter LIII

Wallace Carpenter and Hamilton, the journalist, seated against the sun-warmed bench of Mrs.
Hathaway's boarding-house, commented on the band as it stumbled in to the wash-room.

"Those men don't know how big they are," remarked the journalist. "That's the way with most
big men. And that man Thorpe belongs to another age. I'd like to get him to telling his experiences;
he'd be a gold mine to me."

"And would require about as much trouble to 'work,'" laughed Wallace. "He won't talk."

"That's generally the trouble, confound 'em," sighed Hamilton. "The fellows who CAN talk haven't
anything to say; and those who have something to tell are dumb as oysters. I've got him in
though." He spread one of a roll of papers on his knees. "I got a set of duplicates for you.
Thought you might like to keep them. The office tells me," he concluded modestly, "that they
are attracting lots of attention, but are looked upon as being a rather clever sort of fiction."

Wallace picked up the sheet. His eye was at once met by the heading, "'So long, boys,'" in
letters a half inch in height, and immediately underneath in smaller type, "said Jimmy Powers,
and threw his hat in the face of death."

"It's all there," explained the journalist, "--the jam and the break, and all this magnificent
struggle afterwards. It makes a great yarn. I feel tempted sometimes to help it out a little--artistically,
you know--but of course that wouldn't do. She'd make a ripping yarn, though, if I could get
up some motive outside mere trade rivalry for the blowing up of those dams. That would just
round it off."

Wallace Carpenter was about to reply that such a motive actually existed, when the conversation
was interrupted by the approach of Thorpe and Big Junko. The former looked twenty years older
after his winter. His eye was dull, his shoulders drooped, his gait was inelastic. The whole
bearing of the man was that of one weary to the bone.

"I've got something here to show you, Harry," cried Wallace Carpenter, waving one of the papers.
"It was a great drive and here's something to remember it by."

"All right, Wallace, by and by," replied Thorpe dully. "I'm dead. I'm going to turn in for
a while. I need sleep more than anything else. I can't think now."

He passed through the little passage into the "parlor bed-room," which Mrs. Hathaway always
kept in readiness for members of the firm. There he fell heavily asleep almost before his body
had met the bed.

In the long dining room the rivermen consumed a belated dinner. They had no comments to make.
It was over.

The two on the veranda smoked. To the right, at the end of the sawdust street, the mill sang
its varying and lulling keys. The odor of fresh-sawed pine perfumed the air. Not a hundred
yards away the river slipped silently to the distant blue Superior, escaping between the slanting
stone-filled cribs which held back the logs. Down the south and west the huge thunderheads
gathered and flashed and grumbled, as they had done every afternoon for days previous.

"Queer thing," commented Hamilton finally, "these cold streaks in the air. They are just as
distinct as though they had partitions around them."

"Queer climate anyway," agreed Carpenter.

Excepting always for the mill, the little settlement appeared asleep. The main booms were quite
deserted. Not a single figure, armed with its picturesque pike-pole, loomed athwart the distance.
After awhile Hamilton noticed something.

"Look here, Carpenter," said he, "what's happening out there? Have some of your confounded
logs SUNK, or what? There don't seem to be near so many of them somehow."

"No, it isn't that," proffered Carpenter after a moment's scrutiny, "there are just as many
logs, but they are getting separated a little so you can see the open water between them."

"Guess you're right. Say, look here, I believe that the river is rising!"

"Nonsense, we haven't had any rain."

"She's rising just the same. I'll tell you how I know; you see that spile over there near the
left-hand crib? Well, I sat on the boom this morning watching the crew, and I whittled the
spile with my knife--you can see the marks from here. I cut the thing about two feet above
the water. Look at it now."

"She's pretty near the water line, that's right," admitted Carpenter.

"I should think that might make the boys hot," commented Hamilton. "If they'd known this was
coming, they needn't have hustled so to get the drive down.

"That's so," Wallace agreed.

About an hour later the younger man in his turn made a discovery.

"She's been rising right along," he submitted. "Your marks are nearer the water, and, do you
know, I believe the logs are beginning to feel it. See, they've closed up the little openings
between them, and they are beginning to crowd down to the lower end of the pond."

"I don't know anything about this business," hazarded the journalist, "but by the mere look
of the thing I should think there was a good deal of pressure on that same lower end. By Jove,
look there! See those logs up-end? I believe you're going to have a jam right here in your
own booms!"

"I don't know," hesitated Wallace, "I never heard of its happening."

"You'd better let someone know."

"I hate to bother Harry or any of the rivermen. I'll just step down to the mill. Mason--he's
our mill foreman--he'll know."

Mason came to the edge of the high trestle and took one look.

"Jumping fish-hooks!" he cried. "Why, the river's up six inches and still a comin'! Here you,
Tom!" he called to one of the yard hands, "you tell Solly to get steam on that tug double quick,
and have Dave hustle together his driver crew."

"What you going to do?" asked Wallace.

"I got to strengthen the booms," explained the mill foreman. "We'll drive some piles across
between the cribs."

"Is there any danger?"

"Oh, no, the river would have to rise a good deal higher than she is now to make current enough
to hurt. They've had a hard rain up above. This will go down in a few hours."

After a time the tug puffed up to the booms, escorting the pile driver. The latter towed a
little raft of long sharpened piles, which it at once began to drive in such positions as would
most effectually strengthen the booms. In the meantime the thunder-heads had slyly climbed
the heavens, so that a sudden deluge of rain surprised the workmen. For an hour it poured down
in torrents; then settled to a steady gray beat. Immediately the aspect had changed. The distant
rise of land was veiled; the brown expanse of logs became slippery and glistening; the river
below the booms was picked into staccato points by the drops; distant Superior turned lead
color and seemed to tumble strangely athwart the horizon.

Solly, the tug captain, looked at his mooring hawsers and then at the nearest crib.

"She's riz two inches in th' las' two hours," he announced, "and she's runnin' like a mill
race." Solly was a typical north-country tug captain, short and broad, with a brown, clear
face, and the steadiest and calmest of steel-blue eyes. "When she begins to feel th' pressure
behind," he went on, "there's goin' to be trouble."

Towards dusk she began to feel that pressure. Through the rainy twilight the logs could be
seen raising their ghostly arms of protest. Slowly, without tumult, the jam formed. In the
van the logs crossed silently; in the rear they pressed in, were sucked under in the swift
water, and came to rest at the bottom of the river. The current of the river began to protest,
pressing its hydraulics through the narrowing crevices. The situation demanded attention.

A breeze began to pull off shore in the body of rain. Little by little it increased, sending
the water by in gusts, ruffling the already hurrying river into greater haste, raising far
from the shore dimly perceived white-caps. Between the roaring of the wind, the dash of rain,
and the rush of the stream, men had to shout to make themselves heard.

"Guess you'd better rout out the boss," screamed Solly to Wallace Carpenter; "this damn water's
comin' up an inch an hour right along. When she backs up once, she'll push this jam out sure."

Wallace ran to the boarding house and roused his partner from a heavy sleep. The latter understood
the situation at a word. While dressing, he explained to the younger man wherein lay the danger.

"If the jam breaks once," said he, "nothing top of earth can prevent it from going out into
the Lake, and there it'll scatter, Heaven knows where. Once scattered, it is practically a
total loss. The salvage wouldn't pay the price of the lumber."

They felt blindly through the rain in the direction of the lights on the tug and pile-driver.
Shearer, the water dripping from his flaxen mustache, joined them like a shadow.

"I heard you come in," he explained to Carpenter. At the river he announced his opinion. "We
can hold her all right," he assured them. "It'll take a few more piles, but by morning the
storm'll be over, and she'll begin to go down again."

The three picked their way over the creaking, swaying timber. But when they reached the pile-driver,
they found trouble afoot. The crew had mutinied, and refused longer to drive piles under the
face of the jam.

"If she breaks loose, she's going to bury us," said they.

"She won't break," snapped Shearer, "get to work."

"It's dangerous," they objected sullenly.

"By God, you get off this driver," shouted Solly. "Go over and lie down in a ten-acre lot,
and see if you feel safe there!"

He drove them ashore with a storm of profanity and a multitude of kicks, his steel-blue eyes
blazing.

"There's nothing for it but to get the boys out again," said Tim; "I kinder hate to do it."

But when the Fighting Forty, half asleep but dauntless, took charge of the driver, a catastrophe
made itself known. One of the ejected men had tripped the lifting chain of the hammer after
another had knocked away the heavy preventing block, and so the hammer had fallen into the
river and was lost. None other was to be had. The pile driver was useless.

A dozen men were at once despatched for cables, chains, and wire ropes from the supply at the
warehouse.

"I'd like to have those whelps here," cried Shearer, "I'd throw them under the jam."

"It's part of the same trick," said Thorpe grimly; "those fellows have their men everywhere
among us. I don't know whom to trust."

"You think it's Morrison & Daly?" queried Carpenter astonished.

"Think? I know it. They know as well as you or I that if we save these logs, we'll win out
in the stock exchange; and they're not such fools as to let us save them if it can be helped.
I have a score to settle with those fellows; and when I get through with this thing I'll settle
it all right."

"What are you going to do now?"

"The only thing there is to be done. We'll string heavy booms, chained together, between the
cribs, and then trust to heaven they'll hold. I think we can hold the jam. The water will begin
to flow over the bank before long, so there won't be much increase of pressure over what we
have now; and as there won't be any shock to withstand, I think our heavy booms will do the
business."

He turned to direct the boring of some long boom logs in preparation for the chains. Suddenly
he whirled again to Wallace with so strange an expression in his face that the young man almost
cried out. The uncertain light of the lanterns showed dimly the streaks of rain across his
countenance, and, his eye flared with a look almost of panic.

"I never thought of it!" he said in a low voice. "Fool that I am! I don't see how I missed
it. Wallace, don't you see what those devils will do next?"

"No, what do you mean?" gasped the younger man.

"There are twelve million feet of logs up river in Sadler & Smith's drive. Don't you see what
they'll do?"

"No, I don't believe--"

"Just as soon as they find out that the river is booming, and that we are going to have a hard
time to hold our jam, they'll let loose those twelve million on us. They'll break the jam,
or dynamite it, or something. And let me tell you, that a very few logs hitting the tail of
our jam will start the whole shooting match so that no power on earth can stop it."

"I don't imagine they'd think of doing that--" began Wallace by way of assurance.

"Think of it! You don't know them. They've thought of everything. You don't know that man Daly.
Ask Tim, he'll tell you."

"Well, the--"

"I've got to send a man up there right away. Perhaps we can get there in time to head them
off. They have to send their man over--By the way," he queried, struck with a new idea, "how
long have you been driving piles?"

"Since about three o'clock."

"Six hours," computed Thorpe. "I wish you'd come for me sooner."

He cast his eye rapidly over the men.

"I don't know just who to send. There isn't a good enough woodsman in the lot to make Siscoe
Falls through the woods a night like this. The river trail is too long; and a cut through the
woods is blind. Andrews is the only man I know of who could do it, but I think Billy Mason
said Andrews had gone up on the Gunther track to run lines. Come on; we'll see."

With infinite difficulty and caution, they reached the shore. Across the gleaming logs shone
dimly the lanterns at the scene of work, ghostly through the rain. Beyond, on either side,
lay impenetrable drenched darkness, racked by the wind.

"I wouldn't want to tackle it," panted Thorpe. "If it wasn't for that cursed tote road between
Sadler's and Daly's, I wouldn't worry. It's just too EASY for them."

Behind them the jam cracked and shrieked and groaned. Occasionally was heard, beneath the sharper
noises, a dull BOOM, as one of the heavy timbers forced by the pressure from its resting place,
shot into the air, and fell back on the bristling surface.

Andrews had left that morning.

"Tim Shearer might do it," suggested Thorpe, "but I hate to spare him."

He picked his rifle from its rack and thrust the magazine full of cartridges.

"Come on, Wallace," said he, "we'll hunt him up."

They stepped again into the shriek and roar of the storm, bending their heads to its power,
but indifferent in the already drenched condition of their clothing, to the rain. The saw-dust
street was saturated like a sponge. They could feel the quick water rise about the pressure
at their feet. From the invisible houses they heard a steady monotone of flowing from the roofs.
Far ahead, dim in the mist, sprayed the light of lanterns.

Suddenly Thorpe felt a touch on his arm. Faintly he perceived at his elbow the high lights
of a face from which the water streamed.

"Injin Charley!" he cried, "the very man!"

Chapter LIV

Rapidly Thorpe explained what was to be done, and thrust his rifle into the Indian's hands.
The latter listened in silence and stolidity, then turned, and without a word departed swiftly
in the darkness. The two white men stood a minute attentive. Nothing was to be heard but the
steady beat of rain and the roaring of the wind.

Near the bank of the river they encountered a man, visible only as an uncertain black outline
against the glow of the lanterns beyond. Thorpe, stopping him, found Big Junko.

"This is no time to quit," said Thorpe, sharply.

"I ain't quittin'," replied Big Junko.

"Where are you going, then?"

Junko was partially and stammeringly unresponsive.

"Looks bad," commented Thorpe. "You'd better get back to your job."

"Yes," agreed Junko helplessly. In the momentary slack tide of work, the giant had conceived
the idea of searching out the driver crew for purposes of pugilistic vengeance. Thorpe's suspicions
stung him, but his simple mind could see no direct way to explanation.

All night long in the chill of a spring rain and windstorm the Fighting Forty and certain of
the mill crew gave themselves to the labor of connecting the slanting stone cribs so strongly,
by means of heavy timbers chained end to end, that the pressure of a break in the jam might
not sweep aside the defenses. Wallace Carpenter, Shorty, the chore-boy, and Anderson, the barn-boss,
picked a dangerous passage back and forth carrying pails of red-hot coffee which Mrs. Hathaway
constantly prepared. The cold water numbed the men's hands. With difficulty could they manipulate
the heavy chains through the auger holes; with pain they twisted knots, bored holes. They did
not complain. Behind them the jam quivered, perilously near the bursting point. From it shrieked
aloud the demons of pressure. Steadily the river rose, an inch an hour. The key might snap
at any given moment, they could not tell,--and with the rush they knew very well that themselves,
the tug, and the disabled piledriver would be swept from existence. The worst of it was that
the blackness shrouded their experience into uselessness; they were utterly unable to tell
by the ordinary visual symptoms how near the jam might be to collapse.

However, they persisted, as the old-time riverman always does, so that when dawn appeared the
barrier was continuous and assured. Although the pressure of the river had already forced the
logs against the defenses, the latter held the strain well.

The storm had settled into its gait. Overhead the sky was filled with gray, beneath which darker
scuds flew across the zenith before a howling southwest wind. Out in the clear river one could
hardly stand upright against the gusts. In the fan of many directions furious squalls swept
over the open water below the booms, and an eager boiling current rushed to the lake.

Thorpe now gave orders that the tug and driver should take shelter. A few moments later he
expressed himself as satisfied. The dripping crew, their harsh faces gray in the half-light,
picked their way to the shore.

In the darkness of that long night's work no man knew his neighbor. Men from the river, men
from the mill, men from the yard all worked side by side. Thus no one noticed especially a
tall, slender, but well-knit individual dressed in a faded mackinaw and a limp slouch hat which
he wore pulled over his eyes. This young fellow occupied himself with the chains. Against the
racing current the crew held the ends of the heavy booms, while he fastened them together.
He worked well, but seemed slow. Three times Shearer hustled him on after the others had finished,
examining closely the work that had been done. On the third occasion he shrugged his shoulder
somewhat impatiently.

The men straggled to shore, the young fellow just described bringing up the rear. He walked
as though tired out, hanging his head and dragging his feet. When, however, the boarding-house
door had closed on the last of those who preceded him, and the town lay deserted in the dawn,
he suddenly became transformed. Casting a keen glance right and left to be sure of his opportunity,
he turned and hurried recklessly back over the logs to the center booms. There he knelt and
busied himself with the chains.

In his zigzag progression over the jam he so blended with the morning shadows as to seem one
of them, and he would have escaped quite unnoticed had not a sudden shifting of the logs under
his feet compelled him to rise for a moment to his full height. So Wallace Carpenter, passing
from his bedroom, along the porch, to the dining room, became aware of the man on the logs.

His first thought was that something demanding instant attention had happened to the boom.
He therefore ran at once to the man's assistance, ready to help him personally or to call other
aid as the exigency demanded. Owing to the precarious nature of the passage, he could not see
beyond his feet until very close to the workman. Then he looked up to find the man, squatted
on the boom, contemplating him sardonically.

"Dyer!" he exclaimed

"Right, my son," said the other coolly.

"What are you doing?"

"If you want to know, I am filing this chain."

Wallace made one step forward and so became aware that at last firearms were taking a part
in this desperate game.

"You stand still," commanded Dyer from behind the revolver. "It's unfortunate for you that
you happened along, because now you'll have to come with me till this little row is over. You
won't have to stay long; your logs'll go out in an hour. I'll just trouble you to go into the
brush with me for a while."

The scaler picked his file from beside the weakened link.

"What have you against us, anyway, Dyer?" asked Wallace. His quick mind had conceived a plan.
At the moment, he was standing near the outermost edge of the jam, but now as he spoke he stepped
quietly to the boom log.

Dyer's black eyes gleamed at him suspiciously, but the movement appeared wholly natural in
view of the return to shore.

"Nothing," he replied. "I didn't like your gang particularly, but that's nothing."

"Why do you take such nervy chances to injure us?" queried Carpenter.

"Because there's something in it," snapped the scaler. "Now about face; mosey!"

Like a flash Wallace wheeled and dropped into the river, swimming as fast as possible below
water before his breath should give out. The swift current hurried him away. When at last he
rose for air, the spit of Dyer's pistol caused him no uneasiness. A moment later he struck
out boldly for shore.

What Dyer's ultimate plan might be, he could not guess. He had stated confidently that the
jam would break "in an hour." He might intend to start it with dynamite. Wallace dragged himself
from the water and commenced breathlessly to run toward the boarding-house.

Dyer had already reached the shore. Wallace raised what was left of his voice in a despairing
shout. The scaler mockingly waved his hat, then turned and ran swiftly and easily toward the
shelter of the woods. At their border he paused again to bow in derision. Carpenter's cry brought
men to the boarding-house door. From the shadows of the forest two vivid flashes cut the dusk.
Dyer staggered, turned completely about, seemed partially to recover, and disappeared. An instant
later, across the open space where the scaler had stood, with rifle a-trail, the Indian leaped
in pursuit.

Chapter LV

"What is it?" "What's the matter?" "What's happened?" burst on Wallace in a volley.

"It's Dyer," gasped the young man. "I found him on the boom! He held me up with a gun while
he filed the boom chains between the center piers. They're just ready to go. I got away by
diving. Hurry and put in a new chain; you haven't much time!"

"He's a gone-er now," interjected Solly grimly.--"Charley is on his trail--and he is hit."

Thorpe's intelligence leaped promptly to the practical question.

"Injin Charley, where'd he come from? I sent him up Sadler & Smith's. It's twenty miles, even
through the woods."

As though by way of colossal answer the whole surface of the jam moved inward and upward, thrusting
the logs bristling against the horizon.

"She's going to break!" shouted Thorpe, starting on a run towards the river. "A chain, quick!"

The men followed, strung high with excitement. Hamilton, the journalist, paused long enough
to glance up-stream. Then he, too, ran after them, screaming that the river above was full
of logs. By that they all knew that Injin Charley's mission had failed, and that something
under ten million feet of logs were racing down the river like so many battering rams.

At the boom the great jam was already a-tremble with eagerness to spring. Indeed a miracle
alone seemed to hold the timbers in their place.

"It's death, certain death, to go out on that boom," muttered Billy Mason.

Tim Shearer stepped forward coolly, ready as always to assume the perilous duty. He was thrust
back by Thorpe, who seized the chain, cold-shut and hammer which Scotty Parsons brought, and
ran lightly out over the booms, shouting,

"Back! back! Don't follow me, on your lives! Keep 'em back, Tim!"

The swift water boiled from under the booms. BANG! SMASH! BANG! crashed the logs, a mile upstream,
but plainly audible above the waters and the wind. Thorpe knelt, dropped the cold-shut through
on either side of the weakened link, and prepared to close it with his hammer. He intended
further to strengthen the connection with the other chain.

"Lem' me hold her for you. You can't close her alone," said an unexpected voice next his elbow.

Thorpe looked up in surprise and anger. Over him leaned Big Junko. The men had been unable
to prevent his following. Animated by the blind devotion of the animal for its master, and
further stung to action by that master's doubt of his fidelity, the giant had followed to assist
as he might.

"You damned fool," cried Thorpe exasperated, then held the hammer to him, "strike while I keep
the chain underneath," he commanded.

Big Junko leaned forward to obey, kicking strongly his caulks into the barked surface of the
boom log. The spikes, worn blunt by the river work already accomplished, failed to grip. Big
Junko slipped, caught himself by an effort, overbalanced in the other direction, and fell into
the stream. The current at once swept him away, but fortunately in such a direction that he
was enabled to catch the slanting end of a "dead head" log whose lower end was jammed in the
crib. The dead head was slippery, the current strong; Big Junko had no crevice by which to
assure his hold. In another moment he would be torn away.

"Let go and swim!" shouted Thorpe.

"I can't swim," replied Junko in so low a voice as to be scarcely audible.

For a moment Thorpe stared at him.

"Tell Carrie," said Big Junko.

Then there beneath the swirling gray sky, under the frowning jam, in the midst of flood waters,
Thorpe had his second great Moment of Decision. He did not pause to weigh reasons or chances,
to discuss with himself expediency, or the moralities of failure. His actions were foreordained,
mechanical. All at once the great forces which the winter had been bringing to power, crystallized
into something bigger than himself or his ideas. The trail lay before him; there was no choice.

Now clearly, with no shadow of doubt, he took the other view: There could be nothing better
than Love. Men, their works, their deeds were little things. Success was a little thing; the
opinion of men a little thing. Instantly he felt the truth of it.

And here was Love in danger. That it held its moment's habitation in clay of the coarser mould
had nothing to do with the great elemental truth of it. For the first time in his life Thorpe
felt the full crushing power of an abstraction. Without thought, instinctively, he threw before
the necessity of the moment all that was lesser. It was the triumph of what was real in the
man over that which environment, alienation, difficulties had raised up within him.

At Big Junko's words, Thorpe raised his hammer and with one mighty blow severed the chains
which bound the ends of the booms across the opening. The free end of one of the poles immediately
swung down with the current in the direction of Big Junko. Thorpe like a cat ran to the end
of the boom, seized the giant by the collar, and dragged him through the water to safety.

"Run!" he shouted. "Run for your life!"

The two started desperately back, skirting the edge of the logs which now the very seconds
alone seemed to hold back. They were drenched and blinded with spray, deafened with the crash
of timbers settling to the leap. The men on shore could no longer see them for the smother.
The great crush of logs had actually begun its first majestic sliding motion when at last they
emerged to safety.

At first a few of the loose timbers found the opening, slipping quietly through with the current;
then more; finally the front of the jam dove forward; and an instant later the smooth, swift
motion had gained its impetus and was sweeping the entire drive down through the gap.

Rank after rank, like soldiers charging, they ran. The great fierce wind caught them up ahead
of the current. In a moment the open river was full of logs jostling eagerly onward. Then suddenly,
far out above the uneven tossing skyline of Superior, the strange northern "loom," or mirage,
threw the specters of thousands of restless timbers rising and falling on the bosom of the lake.

Chapter LVI

They stood and watched them go.

"Oh, the great man! Oh, the great man!" murmured the writer, fascinated.

The grandeur of the sacrifice had struck them dumb. They did not understand the motives beneath
it all; but the fact was patent. Big Junko broke down and sobbed.

After a time the stream of logs through the gap slackened. In a moment more, save for the inevitably
stranded few, the booms were empty. A deep sigh went up from the attentive multitude.

"She's GONE!" said one man, with the emphasis of a novel discovery; and groaned.

Then the awe broke from about their minds, and they spoke many opinions and speculations. Thorpe
had disappeared. They respected his emotion and did not follow him.

"It was just plain damn foolishness;--but it was great!" said Shearer. "That no-account jackass
of a Big Junko ain't worth as much per thousand feet as good white pine."

Then they noticed a group of men gathering about the office steps, and on it someone talking.
Collins, the bookkeeper, was making a speech.

Collins was a little hatchet-faced man, with straight, lank hair, nearsighted eyes, a timid,
order-loving disposition, and a great suitability for his profession. He was accurate, unemotional,
and valuable. All his actions were as dry as the saw-dust in the burner. No one had ever seen
him excited. But he was human; and now his knowledge of the Company's affairs showed him the
dramatic contrast. HE KNEW! He knew that the property of the firm had been mortgaged to the
last dollar in order to assist expansion, so that not another cent could be borrowed to tide
over present difficulty. He knew that the notes for sixty thousand dollars covering the loan
to Wallace Carpenter came due in three months; he knew from the long table of statistics which
he was eternally preparing and comparing that the season's cut should have netted a profit
of two hundred thousand dollars--enough to pay the interest on the mortgages, to take up the
notes, and to furnish a working capital for the ensuing year. These things he knew in the strange
concrete arithmetical manner of the routine bookkeeper. Other men saw a desperate phase of
firm rivalry; he saw a struggle to the uttermost. Other men cheered a rescue: he thrilled over
the magnificent gesture of the Gambler scattering his stake in largesse to Death.

It was the simple turning of the hand from full breathed prosperity to lifeless failure.

His view was the inverse of his master's. To Thorpe it had suddenly become a very little thing
in contrast to the great, sweet elemental truth that the dream girl had enunciated. To Collins
the affair was miles vaster than the widest scope of his own narrow life.

The firm could not take up its notes when they came due; it could not pay the interest on the
mortgages, which would now be foreclosed; it could not even pay in full the men who had worked
for it--that would come under a court's adjudication.

He had therefore watched Thorpe's desperate sally to mend the weakened chain, in all the suspense
of a man whose entire universe is in the keeping of the chance moment. It must be remembered
that at bottom, below the outer consciousness, Thorpe's final decision had already grown to
maturity. On the other hand, no other thought than that of accomplishment had even entered
the little bookkeeper's head. The rescue and all that it had meant had hit him like a stroke
of apoplexy, and his thin emotions had curdled to hysteria. Full of the idea he appeared before
the men.

With rapid, almost incoherent speech he poured it out to them. Professional caution and secrecy
were forgotten. Wallace Carpenter attempted to push through the ring for the purpose of stopping
him. A gigantic riverman kindly but firmly held him back.

"I guess it's just as well we hears this," said the latter.

It all came out--the loan to Carpenter, with a hint at the motive: the machinations of the
rival firm on the Board of Trade; the notes, the mortgages, the necessity of a big season's
cut; the reasons the rival firm had for wishing to prevent that cut from arriving at the market;
the desperate and varied means they had employed. The men listened silent. Hamilton, his eyes
glowing like coals, drank in every word. Here was the master motive he had sought; here was
the story great to his hand!

"That's what we ought to get," cried Collins, almost weeping, "and now we've gone and bust,
just because that infernal river-hog had to fall off a boom. By God, it's a shame! Those scalawags
have done us after all!"

Out from the shadows of the woods stole Injin Charley. The whole bearing and aspect of the
man had changed. His eye gleamed with a distant farseeing fire of its own, which took no account
of anything but some remote vision. He stole along almost furtively, but with a proud upright
carriage of his neck, a backward tilt of his fine head, a distention of his nostrils that lent
to his appearance a panther-like pride and stealthiness. No one saw him. Suddenly he broke
through the group and mounted the steps beside Collins.

"The enemy of my brother is gone," said he simply in his native tongue, and with a sudden gesture
held out before them--a scalp.

The medieval barbarity of the thing appalled them for a moment. The days of scalping were long
since past, had been closed away between the pages of forgotten histories, and yet here again
before them was the thing in all its living horror. Then a growl arose. The human animal had
tasted blood.

All at once like wine their wrongs mounted to their heads. They remembered their dead comrades.
They remembered the heart-breaking days and nights of toil they had endured on account of this
man and his associates. They remembered the words of Collins, the little bookkeeper. They hated.
They shook their fists across the skies. They turned and with one accord struck back for the
railroad right-of-way which led to Shingleville, the town controlled by Morrison & Daly.

The railroad lay for a mile straight through a thick tamarack swamp, then over a nearly treeless
cranberry plain. The tamarack was a screen between the two towns. When half-way through the
swamp, Red Jacket stopped, removed his coat, ripped the lining from it, and began to fashion
a rude mask.

"Just as well they don't recognize us," said he.

"Somebody in town will give us away," suggested Shorty, the chore-boy.

"No, they won't; they're all here," assured Kerlie.

It was true. Except for the women and children, who were not yet about, the entire village
had assembled. Even old Vanderhoof, the fire-watcher of the yard, hobbled along breathlessly
on his rheumatic legs. In a moment the masks were fitted. In a moment more the little band
had emerged from the shelter of the swamp, and so came into full view of its objective point.

Shingleville consisted of a big mill; the yards, now nearly empty of lumber; the large frame
boarding-house; the office; the stable; a store; two saloons; and a dozen dwellings. The party
at once fixed its eyes on this collection of buildings, and trudged on down the right-of-way
with unhastening grimness.

Their approach was not unobserved. Daly saw them; and Baker, his foreman, saw them. The two
at once went forth to organize opposition. When the attacking party reached the mill-yard,
it found the boss and the foreman standing alone on the saw-dust, revolvers drawn.

Daly traced a line with his toe.

"The first man that crosses that line gets it," said he.

They knew he meant what he said. An instant's pause ensued, while the big man and the little
faced a mob. Daly's rivermen were still on drive. He knew the mill men too well to depend on
them. Truth to tell, the possibility of such a raid as this had not occurred to him; for the
simple reason that he did not anticipate the discovery of his complicity with the forces of
nature. Skillfully carried out, the plan was a good one. No one need know of the weakened link,
and it was the most natural thing in the world that Sadler & Smith's drive should go out with
the increase of water.

The men grouped swiftly and silently on the other side of the sawdust line. The pause did not
mean that Daly's defense was good. I have known of a crew of striking mill men being so bluffed
down, but not such men as these.

"Do you know what's going to happen to you?" said a voice from the group. The speaker was Radway,
but the contractor kept himself well in the background. "We're going to burn your mill; we're
going to burn your yards; we're going to burn your whole shooting match, you low-lived whelp!"

"Yes, and we're going to string you to your own trestle!" growled another voice harshly.

"Dyer!" said Injin Charley, simply, shaking the wet scalp arm's length towards the lumbermen.

At this grim interruption a silence fell. The owner paled slightly; his foreman chewed a nonchalant
straw. Down the still and deserted street crossed and recrossed the subtle occult influences
of a half-hundred concealed watchers. Daly and his subordinate were very much alone, and very
much in danger. Their last hour had come; and they knew it.

With the recognition of the fact, they immediately raised their weapons in the resolve to do
as much damage as possible before being overpowered.

Then suddenly, full in the back, a heavy stream of water knocked them completely off their
feet, rolled them over and over on the wet sawdust, and finally jammed them both against the
trestle, where it held them, kicking and gasping for breath, in a choking cataract of water.
The pistols flew harmlessly into the air. For an instant the Fighting Forty stared in paralyzed
astonishment. Then a tremendous roar of laughter saluted this easy vanquishment of a formidable
enemy.

Daly and Baker were pounced upon and captured. There was no resistance. They were too nearly
strangled for that. Little Solly and old Vanderhoof turned off the water in the fire hydrant
and disconnected the hose they had so effectively employed.

"There, damn you!" said Rollway Charley, jerking the millman to his feet. "How do YOU like
too much water? hey?"

The unexpected comedy changed the party's mood.

It was no longer a question of killing. A number broke into the store, and shortly emerged,
bearing pails of kerosene with which they deluged the slabs on the windward side of the mill.
The flames caught the structure instantly. A thousand sparks, borne by the off-shore breeze,
fastened like so many stinging insects on the lumber in the yard.

It burned as dried balsam thrown on a camp fire. The heat of it drove the onlookers far back
in the village, where in silence they watched the destruction. From behind locked doors the
inhabitants watched with them.

The billow of white smoke filled the northern sky. A whirl of gray wood ashes, light as air,
floated on and ever on over Superior. The site of the mill, the squares where the piles of
lumber had stood, glowed incandescence over which already a white film was forming.

Daly and his man were slapped and cuffed hither and thither at the men's will. Their faces
bled, their bodies ached as one bruise.

"That squares us," said the men. "If we can't cut this year, neither kin you. It's up to you now!"

Then, like a destroying horde of locusts, they gutted the office and the store, smashing what
they could not carry to the fire. The dwellings and saloons they did not disturb. Finally,
about noon, they kicked their two prisoners into the river, and took their way stragglingly
back along the right-of-way.

"I surmise we took that town apart SOME!" remarked Shorty with satisfaction.

"I should rise to remark," replied Kerlie. Big Junko said nothing, but his cavernous little
animal eyes glowed with satisfaction. He had been the first to lay hands on Daly; he had helped
to carry the petroleum; he had struck the first match; he had even administered the final kick.

At the boarding-house they found Wallace Carpenter and Hamilton seated on the veranda. It was
now afternoon. The wind had abated somewhat, and the sun was struggling with the still flying
scuds.

"Hello, boys," said Wallace, "been for a little walk in the woods?"

"Yes, sir," replied Jack Hyland, "we--"

"I'd rather not hear," interrupted Wallace. "There's quite a fire over east. I suppose you
haven't noticed it."

Hyland looked gravely eastward.

"Sure 'nough!" said he.

"Better get some grub," suggested Wallace.

After the men had gone in, he turned to the journalist.

"Hamilton," he began, "write all you know about the drive, and the break, and the rescue, but
as to the burning of the mill--"

The other held out his hand.

"Good," said Wallace offering his own.

And that was as far as the famous Shingleville raid ever got. Daly did his best to collect
even circumstantial evidence against the participants, but in vain. He could not even get anyone
to say that a single member of the village of Carpenter had absented himself from town that
morning. This might have been from loyalty, or it might have been from fear of the vengeance
the Fighting Forty would surely visit on a traitor. Probably it was a combination of both.
The fact remains, however, that Daly never knew surely of but one man implicated in the destruction
of his plant. That man was Injin Charley, but Injin Charley promptly disappeared.

After an interval, Tim Shearer, Radway and Kerlie came out again.

"Where's the boss?" asked Shearer.

"I don't know, Tim," replied Wallace seriously.

"I've looked everywhere. He's gone. He must have been all cut up. I think he went out in the
woods to get over it. I am not worrying. Harry has lots of sense. He'll come in about dark."

"Sure!" said Tim.

"How about the boy's stakes?" queried Radway. "I hear this is a bad smash for the firm."

"We'll see that the men get their wages all right," replied Carpenter, a little disappointed
that such a question should be asked at such a time.

"All right," rejoined the contractor. "We're all going to need our money this summer."

Chapter LVII

Thorpe walked through the silent group of men without seeing them. He had no thought for what
he had done, but for the triumphant discovery he had made in spite of himself. This he saw
at once as something to glory in and as a duty to be fulfilled.

It was then about six o'clock in the morning. Thorpe passed the boarding-house, the store,
and the office, to take himself as far as the little open shed that served the primitive town
as a railway station. There he set the semaphore to flag the east-bound train from Duluth.
At six thirty-two, the train happening on time, he climbed aboard. He dropped heavily into
a seat and stared straight in front of him until the conductor had spoken to him twice.

"Where to, Mr. Thorpe?" he asked.

The latter gazed at him uncomprehendingly.

"Oh! Mackinaw City," he replied at last.

"How're things going up your way?" inquired the conductor by way of conversation while he made
out the pay-slip.

"Good!" responded Thorpe mechanically.

The act of paying for his fare brought to his consciousness that he had but a little over ten
dollars with him. He thrust the change back into his pocket, and took up his contemplation
of nothing. The river water dripped slowly from his "cork" boots to form a pool on the car
floor. The heavy wool of his short driving trousers steamed in the car's warmth. His shoulders
dried in a little cloud of vapor. He noticed none of these things, but stared ahead, his gaze
vacant, the bronze of his face set in the lines of a brown study, his strong capable hands
hanging purposeless between his knees. The ride to Mackinaw City was six hours long, and the
train in addition lost some ninety minutes; but in all this distance Thorpe never altered his
pose nor his fixed attitude of attention to some inner voice.

The car-ferry finally landed them on the southern peninsula. Thorpe descended at Mackinaw City
to find that the noon train had gone. He ate lunch at the hotel,--borrowed a hundred dollars
from the agent of Louis Sands, a lumberman of his acquaintance; and seated himself rigidly
in the little waiting room, there to remain until the nine-twenty that night. When the cars
were backed down from the siding, he boarded the sleeper. In the doorway stood a disapproving
colored porter.

"Yo'll fin' the smokin' cab up fo'wu'd, suh," said the latter, firmly barring the way.

"It's generally forward," answered Thorpe.

"This yeah's th' sleepah," protested the functionary. "You pays extry."

"I am aware of it," replied Thorpe curtly. "Give me a lower."

"Yessah!" acquiesced the darkey, giving way, but still in doubt. He followed Thorpe curiously,
peering into the smoking room on him from time to time. A little after twelve his patience
gave out. The stolid gloomy man of lower six seemed to intend sitting up all night.

"Yo' berth is ready, sah," he delicately suggested.

Thorpe arose obediently, walked to lower six, and, without undressing, threw himself on the
bed. Afterwards the porter, in conscientious discharge of his duty, looked diligently beneath
the seat for boots to polish. Happening to glance up, after fruitless search he discovered
the boots still adorning the feet of their owner.

"Well, for th' LANDS sake!" ejaculated the scandalized negro, beating a hasty retreat.

He was still more scandalized when, the following noon, his strange fare brushed by him without
bestowing the expected tip.

Thorpe descended at Twelfth Street in Chicago without any very clear notion of where he was
going. For a moment he faced the long park-like expanse of the lake front, then turned sharp
to his left and picked his way south up the interminable reaches of Michigan Avenue. He did
this without any conscious motive--mainly because the reaches seemed interminable, and he proved
the need of walking. Block after block he clicked along, the caulks of his boots striking fire
from the pavement. Some people stared at him a little curiously. Others merely glanced in his
direction, attracted more by the expression of his face than the peculiarity of his dress.
At that time rivermen were not an uncommon sight along the water front.

After an interval he seemed to have left the smoke and dirt behind. The street became quieter.
Boarding-houses and tailors' shops ceased. Here and there appeared a bit of lawn, shrubbery,
flowers. The residences established an uptown crescendo of magnificence. Policemen seemed trimmer,
better-gloved. Occasionally he might have noticed in front of one of the sandstone piles, a
besilvered pair champing before a stylish vehicle. By and by he came to himself to find that
he was staring at the deep-carved lettering in a stone horse-block before a large dwelling.

His mind took the letters in one after the other, perceiving them plainly before it accorded
them recognition. Finally he had completed the word "Farrad." He whirled sharp on his heel,
mounted the broad white stone steps, and rang the bell.

It was answered almost immediately by a cleanshaven, portly and dignified man with the most
impassive countenance in the world. This man looked upon Thorpe with lofty disapproval.

"Is Miss Hilda Farrand at home?" he asked.

"I cannot say," replied the man. "If you will step to the back door, I will ascertain."

"The flowers will do. Now see that the south room is ready, Annie," floated a voice from within.

Without a word, but with a deadly earnestness, Thorpe reached forward, seized the astonished
servant by the collar, yanked him bodily outside the door, stepped inside, and strode across
the hall toward a closed portiere whence had come the voice. The riverman's long spikes cut
little triangular pieces from the hardwood floor. Thorpe did not notice that. He thrust aside
the portiere.

Before him he saw a young and beautiful girl. She was seated, and her lap was filled with flowers.
At his sudden apparition, her hands flew to her heart, and her lips slightly parted. For a
second the two stood looking at each other, just as nearly a year before their eyes had crossed
over the old pole trail.

To Thorpe the girl seemed more beautiful than ever. She exceeded even his retrospective dreams
of her, for the dream had persistently retained something of the quality of idealism which
made the vision unreal, while the woman before him had become human flesh and blood, adorable,
to be desired. The red of this violent unexpected encounter rushed to her face, her bosom rose
and fell in a fluttering catch for breath; but her eyes were steady and inquiring.

Then the butter pounced on Thorpe from behind with the intent to do great bodily harm.

"Morris!" commanded Hilda sharply, "what are you doing?"

The man cut short his heroism in confusion.

"You may go," concluded Hilda.

Thorpe stood straight and unwinking by the straight portiere. After a moment he spoke.

"I have come to tell you that you were right and I was wrong," said he steadily. "You told
me there could be nothing better than love. In the pride of my strength I told you this was
not so. I was wrong."

He stood for another instant, looking directly at her, then turned sharply, and head erect
walked from the room.

Before he had reached the outer door the girl was at his side.

"Why are you going?" she asked.

"I have nothing more to say."

"NOTHING?"

"Nothing at all."

She laughed happily to herself.

"But I have--much. Come back."

They returned to the little morning room, Thorpe's caulked boots gouging out the little triangular
furrows in the hardwood floor. Neither noticed that. Morris, the butler, emerged from his hiding
and held up the hands of horror.

"What are you going to do now?" she catechised, facing him in the middle of the room. A long
tendril of her beautiful corn-silk hair fell across her eyes; her red lips parted in a faint
wistful smile; beneath the draperies of her loose gown the pure slender lines of her figure
leaned toward him.

"I am going back," he replied patiently.

"I knew you would come," said she. "I have been expecting you."

She raised one hand to brush back the tendril of hair, but it was a mechanical gesture, one
that did not stir even the surface consciousness of the strange half-smiling, half-wistful,
starry gaze with which she watched his face.

"Oh, Harry," she breathed, with a sudden flash of insight, "you are a man born to be much misunderstood."

He held himself rigid, but in his veins was creeping a molten fire, and the fire was beginning
to glow dully in his eye. Her whole being called him. His heart leaped, his breath came fast,
his eyes swam. With almost hypnotic fascination the idea obsessed him--to kiss her lips, to
press the soft body of the young girl, to tumble her hair down about her flower face. He had
not come for this. He tried to steady himself, and by an effort that left him weak he succeeded.
Then a new flood of passion overcame him. In the later desire was nothing of the old humble
adoration. It was elemental, real, almost a little savage. He wanted to seize her so fiercely
as to hurt her. Something caught his throat, filled his lungs, weakened his knees. For a moment
it seemed to him that he was going to faint.

And still she stood there before him, saying nothing, leaning slightly towards him, her red
lips half parted, her eyes fixed almost wistfully on his face.

"Go away!" he whispered hoarsely at last. The voice was not his own. "Go away! Go away!"

Suddenly she swayed to him.

"Oh, Harry, Harry," she whispered, "must I TELL you? Don't you SEE?"

The flood broke through him. He seized her hungrily. He crushed her to him until she gasped;
he pressed his lips against hers until she all but cried out with the pain of it, he ran his
great brown hands blindly through her hair until it came down about them both in a cloud of
spun light.

"Tell me!" he whispered. "Tell me!"

"Oh! Oh!" she cried. "Please! What is it?"

"I do not believe it," he murmured savagely.

She drew herself from him with gentle dignity.

"I am not worthy to say it," she said soberly, "but I love you with all my heart and soul!"

Then for the first and only time in his life Thorpe fell to weeping, while she, understanding,
stood by and comforted him.

Chapter LVIII

The few moments of Thorpe's tears eased the emotional strain under which, perhaps unconsciously,
he had been laboring for nearly a year past. The tenseness of his nerves relaxed. He was able
to look on the things about him from a broader standpoint than that of the specialist, to front
life with saving humor. The deep breath after striving could at last be taken.

In this new attitude there was nothing strenuous, nothing demanding haste; only a deep glow
of content and happiness. He savored deliberately the joy of a luxurious couch, rich hangings,
polished floor, subdued light, warmed atmosphere. He watched with soul-deep gratitude the soft
girlish curves of Hilda's body, the poise of her flower head, the piquant, half-wistful, half-childish
set of her red lips, the clear starlike glimmer of her dusky eyes. It was all near to him; his.

"Kiss me, dear," he said.

She swayed to him again, deliciously graceful, deliciously unselfconscious, trusting, adorable.
Already in the little nothingnesses of manner, the trifles of mental and bodily attitude, she
had assumed that faint trace of the maternal which to the observant tells so plainly that a
woman has given herself to a man.

She leaned her cheek against her hand, and her hand against his shoulder.

"I have been reading a story lately," said she, "that has interested me very much. It was about
a man who renounced all he held most dear to shield a friend."

"Yes," said Thorpe.

"Then he renounced all his most valuable possessions because a poor common man needed the sacrifice."

"Sounds like a medieval story," said he with unconscious humor.

"It happened recently," rejoined Hilda. "I read it in the papers."

"Well, he blazed a good trail," was Thorpe's sighing comment. "Probably he had his chance.
We don't all of us get that. Things go crooked and get tangled up, so we have to do the best
we can. I don't believe I'd have done it."

"Oh, you are delicious!" she cried.

After a time she said very humbly: "I want to beg your pardon for misunderstanding you and
causing you so much suffering. I was very stupid, and didn't see why you could not do as I
wanted you to."

"That is nothing to forgive. I acted like a fool."

"I have known about you," she went on. "It has all come out in the Telegram. It has been very
exciting. Poor boy, you look tired."

He straightened himself suddenly. "I have forgotten,--actually forgotten," he cried a little
bitterly. "Why, I am a pauper, a bankrupt, I--"

"Harry," she interrupted gently, but very firmly, "you must not say what you were going to
say. I cannot allow it. Money came between us before. It must not do so again. Am I not right,
dear?"

She smiled at him with the lips of a child and the eyes of a woman.

"Yes," he agreed after a struggle, "you are right. But now I must begin all over again. It
will be a long time before I shall be able to claim you. I have my way to make."

"Yes," said she diplomatically.

"But you!" he cried suddenly. "The papers remind me. How about that Morton?"

"What about him?" asked the girl, astonished. "He is very happily engaged."

Thorpe's face slowly filled with blood.

"You'll break the engagement at once," he commanded a little harshly.

"Why should I break the engagement?" demanded Hilda, eying him with some alarm.

"I should think it was obvious enough."

"But it isn't," she insisted. "Why?"

Thorpe was silent--as he always had been in emergencies, and as he was destined always to be.
His was not a nature of expression, but of action. A crisis always brought him, like a bull-dog,
silently to the grip.

Hilda watched him puzzled, with bright eyes, like a squirrel. Her quick brain glanced here
and there among the possibilities, seeking the explanation. Already she knew better than to
demand it of him.

"You actually don't think he's engaged to ME!" she burst out finally.

"Isn't he?" asked Thorpe.

"Why no, stupid! He's engaged to Elizabeth Carpenter, Wallace's sister. Now WHERE did you get
that silly idea?"

"I saw it in the paper."

"And you believe all you see! Why didn't you ask Wallace--but of course you wouldn't! Harry,
you are the most incoherent dumb old brute I ever saw! I could shake you! Why don't you say
something occasionally when it's needed, instead of sitting dumb as a sphinx and getting into
all sorts of trouble? But you never will. I know you. You dear old bear! You NEED a wife to
interpret things for you. You speak a different language from most people." She said this between
laughing and crying; between a sense of the ridiculous uselessness of withholding a single
timely word, and a tender pathetic intuition of the suffering such a nature must endure. In
the prospect of the future she saw her use. It gladdened her and filled her with a serene happiness
possible only to those who feel themselves a necessary and integral part in the lives of the
ones they love. Dimly she perceived this truth. Dimly beyond it she glimpsed that other great
truth of nature, that the human being is rarely completely efficient alone, that in obedience
to his greater use he must take to himself a mate before he can succeed.

Suddenly she jumped to her feet with an exclamation.

"Oh, Harry! I'd forgotten utterly!" she cried in laughing consternation. "I have a luncheon
here at half-past one! It's almost that now. I must run and dress. Just look at me; just LOOK!
YOU did that!"

"I'll wait here until the confounded thing is over," said Thorpe.

"Oh, no, you won't," replied Hilda decidedly. "You are going down town right now and get something
to put on. Then you are coming back here to stay."

Thorpe glanced in surprise at his driver's clothes, and his spiked boots.

"Heavens and earth!" he exclaimed, "I should think so! How am I to get out without ruining
the floor?"

Hilda laughed and drew aside the portiere.

"Don't you think you have done that pretty well already?" she asked. "There, don't look so
solemn. We're not going to be sorry for a single thing we've done today, are we?" She stood
close to him holding the lapels of his jacket in either hand, searching his face wistfully
with her fathomless dusky eyes.

"No, sweetheart, we are not," replied Thorpe soberly.

Chapter LIX

Surely it is useless to follow the sequel in detail, to tell how Hilda persuaded Thorpe to
take her money. She aroused skillfully his fighting blood, induced him to use one fortune to
rescue another. To a woman such as she this was not a very difficult task in the long run.
A few scruples of pride; that was all.

"Do not consider its being mine," she answered to his objections. "Remember the lesson we learned
so bitterly. Nothing can be greater than love, not even our poor ideals. You have my love;
do not disappoint me by refusing so little a thing as my money."

"I hate to do it," he replied; "it doesn't look right."

"You must," she insisted. "I will not take the position of rich wife to a poor man; it is humiliating
to both. I will not marry you until you have made your success."

"That is right," said Thorpe heartily.

"Well, then, are you going to be so selfish as to keep me waiting while you make an entirely
new start, when a little help on my part will bring your plans to completion?"

She saw the shadow of assent in his eyes.

"How much do you need?" she asked swiftly.

"I must take up the notes," he explained. "I must pay the men. I may need something on the
stock market. If I go in on this thing, I'm going in for keeps. I'll get after those fellows
who have been swindling Wallace. Say a hundred thousand dollars."

"Why, it's nothing," she cried.

"I'm glad you think so," he replied grimly.

She ran to her dainty escritoire, where she scribbled eagerly for a few moments.

"There," she cried, her eyes shining, "there is my check book all signed in blank. I'll see
that the money is there."

Thorpe took the book, staring at it with sightless eyes. Hilda, perched on the arm of his chair,
watched his face closely, as later became her habit of interpretation.

"What is it?" she asked.

Thorpe looked up with a pitiful little smile that seemed to beg indulgence for what he was
about to say.

"I was just thinking, dear. I used to imagine I was a strong man, yet see how little my best
efforts amount to. I have put myself into seven years of the hardest labor, working like ten
men in order to succeed. I have foreseen all that mortal could foresee. I have always thought,
and think now, that a man is no man unless he works out the sort of success for which he is
fitted. I have done fairly well until the crises came. Then I have been absolutely powerless,
and if left to myself, I would have failed. At the times when a really strong man would have
used effectively the strength he had been training, I have fallen back miserably on outer aid.
Three times my affairs have become critical. In the crises I have been saved, first by a mere
boy; then by an old illiterate man; now by a weak woman!"

She heard him through in silence.

"Harry," she said soberly when he had quite finished, "I agree with you that God meant the
strong man to succeed; that without success the man hasn't fulfilled his reason for being.
But, Harry, ARE YOU QUITE SURE GOD MEANT HIM TO SUCCEED ALONE?"

The dusk fell through the little room. Out in the hallway a tall clock ticked solemnly. A noiseless
servant appeared in the doorway to light the lamps, but was silently motioned away.

"I had not thought of that," said Thorpe at last.

