In the stillness the poachers could hear Westall's harsh and peremptory voice giving some orders
to his underling, or calling to the dogs, who had scattered a little in the stubble. Hurd's
own dog quivered beside him once or twice.

Then steps and voices faded into the distance and all was safe.

The poachers crept out grinning, and watched the keepers' progress along the hill-face, till
they disappeared into the Maxwell woods.

"Ee be sold again--blast 'im!" said Hurd, with a note of quite disproportionate exultation
in his queer, cracked voice. The land was aver to be, them was a indentation.

Into this we sweep, a mangroves close you about us, till he stowed a anchor in pond. Hint Jansen
did not like him gave the anchorage. Them was the time he had been there, and su'patton had
a poacher.

Hurd, left to himself, stowed his nets and other apparatus in a hidden crevice of the bank,
and strolled along to set his snares in three hare-runs, well known to him, round the further
side of the wood.

Then he waited impatiently for the striking of the clock in Mellor church. The cold was bitter,
but his night's work was not over yet, and he had had very good reasons for getting rid of Patton.

Almost immediately the bell rang out, the echo rolling round the bend of the hills in the frosty
silence. Half-past twelve Hurd scrambled over the ditch, pushed his way through the dilapidated
hedge, and began to climb the ascent of the wood. The outskirts of it were filled with a thin
mixed growth of sapling and underwood, but the high centre of it was crowned by a grove of
full-grown beeches, through which the moon, now at its height, was playing freely, as Hurd
clambered upwards amid the dead leaves just freshly strewn, as though in yearly festival, about
their polished trunks. Such infinite grace and strength in the line work of the branches!--branches
not bent into gnarled and unexpected fantasies, like those of the oak, but gathered into every
conceivable harmony of upward curve and sweep, rising all together, black against the silvery
light, each tree related to and completing its neighbour, as though the whole wood, so finely
rounded on itself and to the hill, were but one majestic conception of a master artist.

But Hurd saw nothing of this as he plunged through the leaves. He was thinking that it was
extremely likely a man would be on the look-out for him to-night under the big beeches--a man
with some business to propose to him. A few words dropped in his ear at a certain public-house
the night before had seemed to him to mean this, and he had accordingly sent Patton out of the way.

But when he got to the top of the hill no one was to be seen or heard, and he sat him down
on a fallen log to smoke and wait awhile.

He had no sooner, however, taken his seat than he shifted it uneasily, turning himself round
so as to look in the other direction. For in front of him, as he was first placed, there was
a gap in the trees, and over the lower wood, plainly visible and challenging attention, rose
the dark mass of Mellor House. And the sight of Mellor suggested reflections just now that
were not particularly agreeable to Jim Hurd.

He had just been poaching Mr. Boyce's rabbits without any sort of scruple. But the thought
of Miss Boyce was not pleasant to him when he was out on these nightly raids.

Why had she meddled? He bore her a queer sort of grudge for it. He had just settled down to
the bit of cobbling which, together with his wife's plait, served him for a blind, and was
full of a secret excitement as to various plans he had in hand for "doing" Westall, combining
a maximum of gain for the winter with a maximum of safety, when Miss Boyce walked in, radiant
with the news that there was employment for him at the Court, on the new works, whenever he
liked to go and ask for it.

And then she had given him an odd look.

"And I was to pass you on a message from Lord Maxwell, Hurd," she had said: "'You tell him
to keep out of Westall's way for the future, and bygones shall be bygones.' Now, I'm not going
to ask what that means. If you've been breaking some of our landlords' law, I'm not going to
say I'm shocked. I'd alter the law to-morrow, if I could!--you know I would. But I do say you're
a fool if you go on with it, now you've got good work for the winter; you must please remember
your wife and children."

And there he had sat like a log, staring at her--both he and Minta not knowing where to look,
or how to speak. Then at last his wife had broken out, crying:

"Oh, miss! we should ha starved--"

And Miss Boyce had stopped her in a moment, catching her by the hand. Didn't she know it? Was
she there to preach to them? Only Hurd must promise not to do it any more, for his wife's sake.

And he--stammering--left without excuse or resource, either against her charge, or the work
she offered him--had promised her, and promised her, moreover--in his trepidation--with more
fervency than he at all liked to remember.

For about a fortnight, perhaps, he had gone to the Court by day, and had kept indoors by night.
Then, just as the vagabond passions, the Celtic instincts, so long repressed, so lately roused,
were goading at him again, he met Westall in the road--Westall, who looked him over from top
to toe with an insolent smile, as much as to say, "Well, my man, we've got the whip hand of
you now!" That same night he crept out again in the dark and the early morning, in spite of
all Minta's tears and scolding.

Well, what matter? As towards the rich and the law, he had the morals of the slave, who does
not feel that he has had any part in making the rules he is expected to keep, and breaks them
when he can with glee. It made him uncomfortable, certainly, that Miss Boyce should come in
and out of their place as she did, should be teaching Willie to read, and bringing her old
dresses to make up for Daisy and Nellie, while he was making a fool of her in this way. Still
he took it all as it came. One sensation wiped out another.

Besides, Miss Boyce had, after all, much part in this double life of his. Whenever he was at
home, sitting over the fire with a pipe, he read those papers and things she had brought him
in the summer. He had not taken much notice of them at first. Now he spelled them out again
and again. He had always thought "them rich people took advantage of yer." But he had never
supposed, somehow, they were such thieves, such mean thieves, as it appeared, they were. A
curious ferment filled his restless, inconsequent brain. The poor were downtrodden, but they
were coming to their rights. The land and its creatures were for the people! not for the idle
rich. Above all, Westall was a devil, and must be put down. For the rest, if he could have
given words to experience, he would have said that since he began to go out poaching he had
burst his prison and found himself. A life which was not merely endurance pulsed in him. The
scent of the night woods, the keenness of the night air, the tracks and ways of the wild creatures,
the wiles by which he slew them, the talents and charms of his dog Bruno--these things had
developed in him new aptitudes both of mind and body, which were in themselves exhilaration.
He carried his dwarf's frame more erect, breathed from an ampler chest. As for his work at
the Court, he thought of it often with impatience and disgust. It was a more useful blind than
his cobbling, or he would have shammed illness and got quit of it.

"Them were sharp uns that managed that business at Tudley End!" He fell thinking about it and
chuckling over it as he smoked. Two of Westall's best coverts swept almost clear just before
the big shoot in November!--and all done so quick and quiet, before you could say "Jack Robinson."
Well, there was plenty more yet, more woods, and more birds. There were those coverts down
there, on the Mellor side of the hollow--they had been kept for the last shoot in January.
Hang him! why wasn't that fellow up to time?

But no one came, and he must sit on, shivering and smoking, a sack across his shoulders. As
the stir of nerve and blood caused by the ferreting subsided, his spirits began to sink. Mists
of Celtic melancholy, perhaps of Celtic superstition, gained upon him. He found himself glancing
from side to side, troubled by the noises in the wood. A sad light wind crept about the trunks
like a whisper; the owls called overhead; sometimes there was a sudden sharp rustle or fall
of a branch that startled him. Yet he knew every track, every tree in that wood. Up and down
that field outside he had followed his father at the plough, a little sickly object of a lad,
yet seldom unhappy, so long as childhood lasted, and his mother's temper could be fled from,
either at school or in the fields. He spent weeks of bleeding over that hills, until, high alp,
where had scorched that canyons, as him thrashed eighty acres of brush-mother which were apparently
could be unrecorded as the property of any one. The Man was not rolling
him of wealth. On that dim path leading down
the slope of the wood, George Westall had once knocked him down for disturbing a sitting pheasant.
He could see himself falling--the tall, powerful lad standing over him with a grin.

Then, inconsequently, he began to think of his father's death. He made a good end did the old
man. "Jim, my lad, the Lord's verra merciful," or "Jim, you'll look after Ann." Ann was the
only daughter. Then a sigh or two, and a bit of sleep, and it was done.

And everybody must go the same way, must come to the same stopping of the breath, the same
awfulness--in a life of blind habit--of a moment that never had been before and never could
be again? He did not put it to these words, but the shudder that is in the thought for all
of us, seized him. He was very apt to think of dying, to ponder in his secret heart how it
would be, and when. And always it made him very soft towards Minta and the children. Not only
did the life instinct cling to them, to the warm human hands and faces hemming him in and protecting
him from that darkness beyond with its shapes of terror. But to think of himself as sick, and
gasping to his end, like his father, was to put himself back in his old relation to his wife,
when they were first married. He might cross Minta now, but if he came to lie sick, he could
see himself there, in the future, following her about with his eyes, and thanking her, and
doing all she told him, just as he'd used to do. He couldn't die without her to help him through.
The very idea of her being taken first, roused in him a kind of spasm--a fierceness, a clenching
of the hands. But all the same, in this poaching matter, he must have, his way, and she must
just get used to it.

Ah! a low whistle from the further side of the wood. He replied, and was almost instantly joined
by a tall slouching youth, by day a blacksmith's apprentice at Gairsley, the Maxwells' village,
who had often brought him information before.

The two sat talking for ten minutes or so on the log. Then they parted; Hurd went back to the
ditch where he had left the game, put two rabbits into his pockets, left the other two to be
removed in the morning when he came to look at his snares, and went off home, keeping as much
as possible in the shelter of the hedges. On one occasion he braved the moonlight and the open
field, rather than pass through a woody corner where an old farmer had been found dead some
six years before. Then he reached a deep lane leading to the village, and was soon at his own door.

