But all those passions which so despotically govern other men, possessed but a feeble influence
over a genius so firm and vast as his: at the utmost, they may have imparted the first momentum
which impelled him into action earlier than he would have wished; but without penetrating so
deeply beneath the folds of his great mind, a single idea, an obvious fact, was enough to hurry
him, sooner or later, into that decisive struggle,--that was, the existence of an empire, which
rivalled his own in greatness, but was still young, like its prince, and growing every day;
while the French empire, already mature, like its emperor, could scarcely anticipate any thing
but its decrease.

Whatever was the height to which Napoleon had raised the throne of the south and west of Europe,
he perceived the northern throne of Alexander ever ready to overshadow him by its eternally
menacing position. On those icy summits of Europe, whence, in former times, so many floods
of barbarians had rushed forth, he perceived all the elements of a new inundation collecting
and maturing. Till then, Austria and Prussia had opposed sufficient barriers; but these he
himself had humbled and overthrown: he stood, therefore, single, front to front with what he
feared; he alone remained the champion of the civilization, the riches, and the enjoyments
of the nations of the south, against the rude ignorance, and the fierce cupidity, of the poorer
people of the north, and against the ambition of their emperor and his nobility.

It was obvious, that war alone could decide this great arbitrament,--this great and eternal
struggle between the poor and the rich; and, nevertheless, this war, with reference to us,
was neither European, nor even national. Europe entered into it against her inclination, because
the object of the expedition was to add to the strength of her conqueror. France was exhausted,
and anxious for repose; her grandees, who formed the court of Napoleon, were alarmed at the
double-headed character of the war, at the dispersion of our armies from Cadiz to Moscow; and
even when admitting the eventual necessity of the struggle, its immediate urgency did not appear
to them so legitimately proved.

They knew that it was more especially by an appeal to his political interest that they had
any chance of shaking the resolution of a prince, whose principle was, "that there exist individuals
whose conduct can but rarely be regulated by their private sentiments, but always by surrounding
circumstances." In this persuasion, one of his ministers[6] said to him, "that his finances
required tranquillity;" but he replied, "On the contrary, they are embarrassed, and require
war." Another[7] added, "that the state of his revenues never, in fact, had been more flourishing;
that, independent of a furnished account of from three to four millions, it was really wonderful
to find France unencumbered with any urgent debts; but that this prosperous condition was approaching
its termination, since it appeared that with the year 1812 a ruinous campaign was to commence;
that hitherto, war had been made to support the expense of war; that we had every where found
the table laid out; but that, in future, we could no longer live at the expense of Germany,
since she had become our ally; but, on the contrary, it would be necessary to support her contingents,
and that without any hope of remuneration, whatever the result might be; that we should have
to pay at Paris for every ration of bread which would be consumed at Moscow, as the new scenes
of action offered us no harvest to reap, independent of glory, but cordage, pitch, and shipping-tackle,
which would certainly go but a small way towards the discharge of the expenses of a continental
war. Those seed having that friction to come up, i assume this wax, in which it is wrapped up, hinders
much moisture from penetrating of Smolensk, but making its kernel shoot; and there fore i should
think some who choose to sow they ascended, we would do naturally if they had lightly rolled they was then
between roads were well be filthy Russians from facility; some düna
would cause nothing to pellicle of wax to army, while it is equally
dry steep; and just so it might be put to irregular. He imagined that he had secured conviction, but Napoleon said
to him,--"So you think that I shall not be able to find a paymaster to discharge the expenses
of the war?" The duke endeavoured to learn upon whom the burden was to fall, when the emperor,
by a single word, disclosing all the grandeur of his designs, closed the lips of his astonished
minister.

He estimated, however, but too accurately all the difficulties of his enterprise. It was that,
perhaps, which drew upon him the reproach of availing himself of a method which he had rejected
in the Austrian war, and of which the celebrated Pitt had set the example in 1793.

Towards the end of 1811, the prefect of police at Paris learnt, it was said, that a printer
was secretly counterfeiting Russian bank-bills; he ordered him to be arrested; the printer
resisted; but in the result his house was broken into, and himself taken before the magistrate,
whom he astonished by his assurance, and still more by his appeal from the minister of police.
This printer was instantly released: it has even been added, that he continued his counterfeiting
employment; and that, from the moment of our first advance into Lithuania, we propagated the
report that we had gained possession at Wilna of several millions of Russian bank-bills in
the military chests of the hostile army.

Whatever may have been the origin of this counterfeit money, Napoleon contemplated it with
extreme repugnance; it is even unknown whether he resolved on making any use of it; at least,
it is certain that during the period of our retreat, and when we abandoned Wilna, the greater
part of these bills were found there untouched, and burnt by his orders.

CHAP. II.

Prince Poniatowski, however, to whom this expedition appeared to hold out the prospect of a
throne, generously united his exertions with those of the emperor's ministers in the attempt
to demonstrate its danger. Love of country was in this Polish prince a great and noble passion;
his life and death have proved it; but it never infatuated him. He depicted Lithuania as an
impracticable desert; its nobility as already become half Russian; the character of its inhabitants
as cold and backward: but the impatient emperor interrupted him; he required information for
the sake of conducting the enterprise, and not to be deterred from it.

It is true that the greater part of these objections were but a feeble repetition of all those
which, for a long time past, had presented themselves to his own mind. People were not aware
of the extent to which he had appreciated the danger; of his multiplied exertions, from the
30th of December 1810, to ascertain the nature of the territory which, sooner or later, was
destined to become the theatre of a decisive war; how many emissaries he had despatched for
the purpose of survey; the multitude of memorials which he caused to be prepared for him respecting
the roads to Petersburgh and Moscow; respecting the dispositions of the inhabitants, especially
of the mercantile class; and, finally, the resources of every kind which the country was enabled
to supply. If he persevered, it was because, far from deceiving himself as to the extent of
his force, he did not share in that confidence which, perhaps, precluded others from perceiving
of how much consequence the humiliation of Russia was to the future existence of the great
French empire.

In this spirit, he once more addressed himself to three[8] of his great officers, whose well-known
services and attachment authorized a tone of frankness. All three, in the capacity of ministers,
envoys, and ambassadors, had become acquainted with Russia at different epochs. He exerted
himself to convince them of the utility, justice, and necessity of this war; but one[9] of
them, in particular, often interrupted him with impatience; for when a discussion had once
commenced, Napoleon submitted to all its little breaches of decorum.

[Footnote 8: The Duke of Frioul, the Count de Segur, (the author's father,) the Duke of Vicenza.]

[Footnote 9: The Duke of Vicenza.]

That great officer, yielding to the inflexible and impetuous frankness which he derived from
his character, from his military education, and, perhaps, from the province which gave him
birth, exclaimed, "That it was useless to deceive himself, or pretend to deceive others; that
after possessing himself of the Continent, and even of the states belonging to the family of
his ally, that ally could not be accused of abandoning the continental system. While the French
armies covered all Europe, how could the Russians be reproached for increasing their army?
Did it become the ambition of Napoleon to denounce the ambition of Alexander?

"That, in addition to this, the determination of that prince was made up; that, Russia once
invaded, no peace could be expected, while a single Frenchman remained upon her soil; that,
in that respect, the national and obstinate pride of the Russians was in perfect harmony with
that of their emperor.

"That, it was true, his subjects accused Alexander of weakness, but very erroneously; that
he was not to be judged of by the complacency which, at Tilsit and at Erfurt, his admiration,
his inexperience, and some tincture of ambition, had extorted from him. That this prince loved
justice; that he was anxious to have right on his side, and he might, indeed, hesitate till
he thought it was so, but then he became inflexible; that, finally, looking to his position
with reference to his subjects, he incurred more danger by making a disgraceful peace, than
by sustaining an unfortunate war.

"How was it possible, moreover, to avoid seeing that in this war every thing was to be feared,
even our allies? Did not Napoleon hear their discontented kings murmuring that they were only
his prefects? When they, all of them, only waited a suitable occasion in order to turn against
him, why run the risk of giving that occasion birth?"

At the same time, supported by his two colleagues, the duke added, "that since 1805 a system
of war which compelled the most disciplined soldier to plunder, had sown the seeds of hatred
throughout the whole of that Germany, which the emperor now designed to traverse. Was he then
going to precipitate himself and his army beyond all those nations whose wounds, for which
they were indebted to us, were not yet healed? What an accumulation of enmity and revenge would
he not, by so doing, interpose between himself and France!

"And upon whom did he call, to be his points d'appui?--on Prussia, whom for five years we had
been devouring, and whose alliance was hollow and compulsive? He was about, therefore, to trace
the longest line of military operations ever drawn, through countries whose fear was taciturn,
supple, and perfidious, and which, like the ashes of volcanoes, hid terrific flames, the eruption
of which might be provoked by the smallest collision[10].

[Footnote 10: The Duke of Vicenza, the Count de Segur.]

"To sum up all[11], what would be the result of so many conquests? To substitute lieutenants
for kings, who, more ambitious than those of Alexander, would, perhaps, imitate their example,
without, like them, waiting for the death of their sovereign,--a death, moreover, which he
would inevitably meet among so many fields of battle; and that, before the consolidation of
his labours, each war reviving in the interior of France the hopes of all kinds of parties,
and reviving discussions which had been regarded as at an end.

[Footnote 11: The Count de Segur.]

"Did he wish to know the opinion of the army? That opinion pronounced that his best soldiers
were then in Spain; that the regiments, being too often recruited, wanted unity; that they
were not reciprocally acquainted; that each was uncertain whether, in case of danger, it could
depend upon the other; that the front rank vainly concealed the weakness of the two others;
that already, from youth and weakness, many of them sank in their first march beneath the single
burden of their knapsacks and their arms.

"And, nevertheless, in this expedition, it was not so much the war which was disliked, as the
country where it was to be carried on[12]. The Lithuanians, it was said, desired our presence;
but on what a soil? in what a climate? in the midst of what peculiar manners? The campaign
of 1806 had made those circumstances too well known! Where could they ever halt, in the midst
of these level plains, divested of every species of position fortified by nature or by art?

[Footnote 12: The Duke of Frioul, the Count de Segur, the Duke of Vicenza.]

"Was it not notorious, that all the elements protected these countries from the first of October
to the first of June? that, at any other time than the short interval comprised between these
two epochs, an army engaged in those deserts of mud and ice might perish there entirely, and
ingloriously?" And, they added, "that Lithuania was much more Asiatic than Spain was African;
and that the French army, already all but banished from France by a perpetual war, wished at
least to preserve its European character.

"Finally, when face to face with the enemy in these deserts, what different motives must actuate
the different armies! On the side of the Russians were country, independence, every description
of interest, private and public, even to the secret good wishes of our allies! On our side,
and in the teeth of so many obstacles, glory alone, unassociated even with that desire of gain,
to which the frightful poverty of these countries offered no attraction.

"And what is the end of so many exertions? The French already no longer recognized each other,
in the midst of a country now uncircumscribed by any natural frontier; and in which the diversity
was so great in manners, persons, and languages." On this particular point, the eldest[13]
of these great officers added, "That such an extension was never made without proportionate
exhaustion; that it was blotting out France to merge it in Europe; for, in fact, when France
should become Europe, it would be France no longer. Would not the meditated departure leave
her solitary, deserted, without a ruler, without an army, accessible to every diversion? Who
then was there to defend her?" "My renown!" exclaimed the emperor: "I leave my name behind
me, and the fear inspired by a nation in arms."

[Footnote 13: M. de Segur.]

And, without appearing in the least shaken by so many objections, he announced "that he was
about to organize the empire into cohorts of Ban and Arrière Ban; and without mistrust to leave
to Frenchmen the protection of France, of his crown, and of his glory.

"That as to Prussia, he had secured her tranquillity by the impossibility in which he had placed
her of moving, even in case of his defeat, or of a descent of the English on the coasts of
the North Sea, and in our rear; that he held in his hands the civil and military power of that
kingdom; that he was master of Stettin, Custrin, Glogau, Torgau, Spandau, and Magdeburg; that
he would post some clear-sighted officers at Colberg, and an army at Berlin; and that with
these means, and supported by the fidelity of Saxony, he had nothing to fear from Prussian hatred.

"That as for the rest of Germany, an ancient system of policy, as well as the recent intermarriages
with Baden, Bavaria, and Austria, attached her to the interest of France; that he made sure
of such of her kings as were indebted to him for their new titles: that after having suppressed
anarchy, and ranged himself on the side of kings, strong as he was, the latter could not attack
him without inciting their people by the principles of democracy; but that it was scarcely
probable that sovereigns would ally themselves with that natural enemy of thrones--an enemy,
which, had it not been for him, would have overthrown them, and against which he alone was
capable of defending them.

"That, besides, the Germans were a tardy and methodical people, and that in dealing with them
he should always have time on his side; that he commanded all the fortresses of Prussia; that
Dantzic was a second Gibraltar." This was incorrect, especially in winter. "That Russia ought
to excite the apprehension of all Europe, by her military and conquering government, as well
as by her savage population, already so numerous, and which augmented annually in the proportion
of half a million. Had not her armies been seen in all parts of Italy, in Germany, and even
on the Rhine? That by demanding the evacuation of Prussia, she required an impossible concession;
since to abandon Prussia, morally ulcerated as she was, was to surrender her into the hands
of Russia, in order to be turned against ourselves."

Proceeding afterwards with more animation, he exclaimed, "Why menace my absence with the different
parties still alleged to exist in the interior of the empire? Where are they? I see but a single
one against me; that of a few royalists, the principal part of the ancient noblesse, superannuated
and inexperienced. But they dread my downfall more than they desire it. This is what I told
them in Normandy. I am cried up as a great captain, as an able politician, but I am scarcely
mentioned as an administrator: that which I have, however, accomplished, of the most difficult
and most beneficial description, is the stemming the revolutionary torrent; it would have swallowed
up every thing, Europe and yourselves. I have united the most opposite parties, amalgamated
rival classes, and yet there exist among you some obstinate nobles who resist; they refuse
my places! Very well! what is that to me? It is for your advantage, for your security, that
I offer them to you. What would you do singly by yourselves, and without me? You are a mere
handful opposed to masses. Do you not see that it is necessary to put an end to the struggle
between the tiers-état and the noblesse, by a complete fusion of all that is best worth preservation
in the two classes? I offer you the hand of amity, and you reject it! but what need have I
of you? While I support you, I do myself an injury in the eyes of the people; for what am I
but the king of the tiers-état: is not that sufficient?"

Passing more calmly to another question: "He was quite aware," he said, "of the ambition of
his generals; but it was diverted by war, and would never be sanctioned in its excesses by
French soldiers, who were too proud of, and too much attached to their country. That if war
was dangerous, peace had also its dangers: that in bringing back his armies into the interior,
it would enclose and concentrate there too many daring interests and passions, which repose
and their association would tend to ferment, and which he should no longer be able to keep
within bounds: that it was necessary to give free vent to all such aspirations; and that, after
all, he dreaded them less without the empire than within it."

He concluded thus: "Do you dread the war, as endangering my life? It was thus that, in the
times of conspiracy, attempts were made to frighten me about Georges; he was said to be every
where upon my track: that wretched being was to fire at me. Well! suppose he had! He would
at the utmost have killed my aide-de-camp: but to kill me was impossible! Had I at that time
accomplished the decrees of fate? I feel myself impelled towards a goal of which I am ignorant.
As soon as I shall have reached it, so soon shall I no longer be of service,--an atom will
then suffice to put me down; but till then, all human efforts can avail nothing against me.
Whether I am in Paris, or with the army, is, therefore, quite indifferent. When my hour comes,
a fever, or a fall from my horse in hunting, will kill me as effectually as a bullet: our days
are numbered."

This opinion, useful as it may be in the moment of danger, is too apt to blind conquerors to
the price at which the great results which they obtain are purchased. They indulge a belief
in pre-destination, either because they have experienced, more than other men, whatever is
most unexpected in human destiny, or because it relieves their consciences of too heavy a load
of responsibility. It was like a return to the times of the crusades, when these words, it
is the will of God, were considered a sufficient answer to all the objections of a prudent
and pacific policy.

Indeed, the expedition of Napoleon into Russia bears a mournful resemblance to that of St.
Louis into Egypt and Africa. These invasions, the one undertaken for the interests of Heaven,
the other for those of the earth, terminated in a similar manner; and these two great examples
admonish the world, that the vast and profound calculations of this age of intelligence may
be followed by the same results as the irregular impulses of religious frenzy in ages of ignorance
and superstition.

In these two expeditions, however, there can be no comparison between their opportunities or
their chances of success. The last was indispensable to the completion of a great design on
the point of being accomplished: its object was not out of reach; the means for reaching it
were not inadequate. It may be, that the moment for its execution was ill chosen; that the
progress of it was sometimes too precipitate, at other times unsteady; but on these points
facts will speak sufficiently: it is for them to decide.

CHAP. III.

In this manner did Napoleon reply to all objections. His skilful hand was able to comprehend
and turn to his purpose every disposition; and, in fact, when he wanted to persuade, there
was a kind of charm in his deportment which it was impossible to resist. One felt overpowered
by his superior strength, and compelled, as it were, to submit to his influence. It was, if
it may be so expressed, a kind of magnetic influence; for his ardent and variable genius infused
itself entirely into all his desires, the least as well as the greatest: whatever he willed,
all his energies and all his faculties united to effect: they appeared at his beck; they hastened
forward; and, obedient to his dictation, simultaneously assumed the forms which he desired.

It was thus that the greater part of those whom he wished to gain over found themselves, as
it were, fascinated by him in spite of themselves. It was flattering to your vanity to see
the master of Europe appearing to have no other ambition, no other desire than that of convincing
you; to behold those features, so formidable to multitudes, expressing towards you no other
feeling but a mild and affecting benevolence; to hear that mysterious man, whose every word
was historical, yielding, as if for your sake alone, to the irresistible impulse of the most
frank and confiding disclosure; and that voice, so caressing while it addressed you, was it
not the same, whose lowest whisper rang throughout all Europe, announced wars, decided battles,
settled the fate of empires, raised or destroyed reputations? What vanity could resist a charm
of so great potency? Any defensive position was forced on all points; his eloquence was so
much more persuasive, as he himself appeared to be persuaded.

On this occasion, there was no variety of tints with which his brilliant and fertile imagination
did not adorn his project, in order to convince and allure. The same text supplied him with
a thousand different commentaries, with which the character and position of each of his interlocutors
inspired him; he enlisted each in his undertaking, by presenting it to him under the form and
colour, and point of view, most likely to gratify him.

We have just seen in what way he silenced the one who felt alarmed at the expenses of the conquest
of Russia, which he wished him to approve, by holding out the perspective, that another would
be made to defray them.

He told the military man, who was astonished by the hazard of the expedition, but likely to
be easily seduced by the grandeur of ambitious ideas, that peace was to be conquered at Constantinople;
that is to say, at the extremity of Europe; the individual was thus free to anticipate, that
it was not merely to the staff of a marshal, but to a royal sceptre, that he might elevate
his pretensions.

To a minister[14] of high rank under the ancient régime, whom the idea of shedding so much
blood, to gratify ambition, filled with dismay, he declared "that it was a war of policy exclusively;
that it was the English alone whom he meant to attack through Russia; that the campaign would
be short; that afterwards France would be at rest; that it was the fifth act of the drama--the
dénouement."

[Footnote 14: Count Molé.]

To others, he pleaded the ambition of Russia, and the force of circumstances, which dragged
him into the war in spite of himself. With superficial and inexperienced individuals, to whom
he neither wished to explain nor dissemble, he cut matters short, by saying, "You understand
nothing of all this; you are ignorant of its antecedents and its consequents."

But to the princes of his own family he had long revealed the state of his thoughts; he complained
that they did not sufficiently appreciate his position. "Can you not see," said he to them,
"that as I was not born upon a throne, I must support myself on it, as I ascended it, by my
renown? that it is necessary for it to go on increasing; that a private individual, become
a sovereign like myself, can no longer stop; that he must be continually ascending, and that
to remain stationary will be his ruin?"

He then depicted to them all the ancient dynasties armed against his, devising plots, preparing
wars, and seeking to destroy, in his person, the dangerous example of a roi parvenu. It was
on that account that every peace appeared in his eyes a conspiracy of the weak against the
strong, of the vanquished against the victor; and especially of the great by birth against
the great by their own exertions. So many successive coalitions had confirmed him in that apprehension!
Indeed, he often thought of no longer tolerating an ancient power in Europe, of constituting
himself into an epoch, of becoming a new era for thrones; in short, of making every thing take
its date from him.

It was in this manner that he disclosed his inmost thoughts to his family by those vivid pictures
of his political position, which, at the present day, will probably appear neither false nor
over-coloured: and yet the gentle Josephine, always occupied with the task of restraining and
calming him, often gave him to understand "that, along with the consciousness of his superior
genius, he never seemed to possess sufficient consciousness of his own power: that, like all
jealous characters, he incessantly required fresh proofs of its existence. How came it, amidst
the noisy acclamations of Europe, that his anxious ear could hear the few solitary voices which
disputed his legitimacy? that in this manner his troubled spirit was always seeking agitation
as its element: that strong as he was to desire, but feeble to enjoy, he himself, therefore,
would be the only one whom he could never conquer."

But in 1811 Josephine was separated from Napoleon, and although he still continued to visit
her in her seclusion, the voice of that empress had lost the influence which continual intercourse,
familiar habits of affection, and the desire of mutual confidence, impart.

Meanwhile, fresh disagreements with the pope complicated the relations of France. Napoleon
then addressed himself to cardinal Fesch. Fesch was a zealous churchman, and overflowing with
Italian vivacity: he defended the papal pretensions with obstinate ardour; and such was the
warmth of his discussions with the emperor, on a former occasion, that the latter got into
a passion, and told him, "that he would compel him to obey." "And who contests your power?"
returned the cardinal: "but force is not argument; for if I am right, not all your power can
make me wrong. Besides, your majesty knows that I do not fear martyrdom."--"Martyrdom!" replied
Buonaparte, with a transition from violence to laughter; "do not reckon on that, I beseech
you, M. le Cardinal: martyrdom is an affair in which there must be two persons concerned; and
as to myself, I have no desire to make a martyr of any individual."

It is said that these discussions assumed a more serious character towards the end of 1811.
An eye-witness asserts that the cardinal, till that time a stranger to politics, then began
to mix them up with his religious controversies; that he conjured Napoleon not thus to fly
in the face of men, the elements, religion, earth and heaven, at the same time; and that, at
last, he expressed his apprehension of seeing him sink under such a weight of enmity.

The only reply which the emperor made to this vehement attack was to take him by the hand,
and leading him to the window, to open it, and inquire, "Do you see that star above us?"--"No,
sire."--"Look again."--"Sire, I do not see it."--"Very well! I see it!" replied Napoleon. The
cardinal, seized with astonishment, remained silent, concluding that there was no human voice
sufficiently loud to make itself heard by an ambition so gigantic, that it already reached
the heavens.

As to the witness of this singular scene, he understood in quite a different sense these words
of his sovereign. They did not appear to him like the expression of an overweening confidence
in his destiny, but rather of the great distinction which Napoleon meant to infer as existing
between the grasp of his genius and that of the cardinal's policy.

But granting even that Napoleon's soul was not exempt from a tendency to superstition, his
intellect was both too strong and too enlightened to permit such vast events to depend upon
a weakness. One great inquietude possessed him; it was the idea of that same death, which he
appeared so much to brave. He felt his strength decaying; and he dreaded that when he should
be no more, the French empire, that sublime trophy of so many labours and victories, would
fall a prey to dismemberment.

"The Russian emperor," he said, "was the only sovereign who pressed upon the summit of that
colossal edifice. Replete with youth and animation, the strength of his rival was constantly
augmenting, while his was already on the decline." It seemed to him that Alexander, on the
banks of the Niemen, only waited the intelligence of his death, to possess himself of the sceptre
of Europe, and snatch it from the hands of his feeble successor. "While all Italy, Switzerland,
Austria, Prussia, and the whole of Germany, were marching under his banners, why should he
delay to anticipate the danger, and consolidate the fabric of the great empire, by driving
back Alexander and the Russian power, enfeebled as they would be by the loss of all Poland,
beyond the Boristhenes?"

Such were his sentiments, pronounced in secret confidence; they, doubtless, comprised the true
motives of that terrible war. As to his precipitation in commencing it, he was, it would seem,
hurried on by the instinct of his approaching death. An acrid humour diffused through his blood,
and to which he imputed his irascibility, ("but without which," added he, "battles are not
to be gained,") undermined his constitution.

A profound knowledge of the organization and mysteries of the human frame would probably enable
us to decide whether this concealed malady was not one of the causes of that restless activity
which hurried on the course of events, and in which originated both his elevation and his fall.

This internal enemy testified its presence, more and more, by an internal pain, and by the
violent spasms of the stomach which it inflicted. Even in 1806, at Warsaw, during one of its
agonizing crises, Napoleon was[15] heard to exclaim, "that he carried about with him the germ
of premature dissolution; and that he should die of the same malady as his father."

[Footnote 15: By the count Lobau.]

Short rides in hunting, even the most gentle gallop of his horse, already began to fatigue
him: how then was he to support the long journeys, and the rapid and violent movements preparatory
to battles? Thus it was, that while the greater part of those who surrounded him concluded
him to be impelled into Russia by his vast ambition, by his restless spirit and his love of
war, he in solitude, and almost unobserved, was poising the fearful responsibilities of the
enterprise, and urged by necessity, he only made up his mind to it after a course of painful
hesitation.

At length, on the 3d of August, 1811, at an audience in the midst of all the ambassadors of
Europe, he declared himself; but the burst of indignation which was the presage of war, was
an additional proof of his repugnance to commence it. It might be that the defeat which the
Russians had just sustained at Routschouk had inflated his hopes; perhaps he imagined that
he might, by menace, arrest the preparations of Alexander.

It was prince Kourakin whom he addressed. That ambassador having just made protestations of
the pacific intentions of his master, he interrupted him: "No," exclaimed he, "your master
desires war; I know, through my generals, that the Russian army is hurrying towards the Niemen!
The emperor Alexander deludes, and gains all my envoys!" Then, perceiving Caulaincourt, he
rapidly traversed the hall, and violently appealing to him, said: "Yes, and you too have become
a Russian: you have been seduced by the emperor Alexander." The duke firmly replied, "Yes,
sire; because, in this question, I consider him to be a Frenchman." Napoleon was silent; but
from that moment, he treated that great dignitary coldly, without, however, absolutely repelling
him: several times he even essayed, by fresh arguments, intermixed with familiar caresses,
to win him over to his opinion, but ineffectually; he always found him inflexible; ready to
serve him, but without approving the nature of the service.

CHAP. IV.

While Napoleon, prompted by his natural character, by his position, and by circumstances, thus
appeared to wish for, and to accelerate the period of conflict, he preserved the secret of
his embarrassment. The year 1811 was wasted in parleys about peace, and preparations for war.
1812 had just begun, and the horizon was already obscured. Our armies in Spain had given way;
Ciudad Rodrigo was taken by the English (on the 19th of January, 1812); the discussions of
Napoleon with the Pope increased in bitterness; Kutusof had destroyed the Turkish army on the
Danube (on the 8th of December, 1811); France even became alarmed about her means of subsistence;
every thing, in short, appeared to divert the attention of Napoleon from Russia; to recall
it to France, and fix it there; while he, far from blinding his judgment, recognized in these
contrarieties the indications of his ever-faithful fortune.

It was, especially in the midst of those long winter nights, when individuals are left more
than usually to their own reflections, that his star seemed to enlighten him with its most
brilliant illumination: it exhibited to him the different ruling genii of the vanquished nations,
in silence awaiting the moment for avenging their wrongs; the dangers which he was about to
confront, those which he left behind him, even in his own family: it showed him, that like
the returns of his army, the census of the population of his empire was delusive, not so much
in respect to its numerical as to its real strength; scarcely any men were included in it but
those who were old in years, or worn out in the service, and children--few men in the prime
of life. Where were they? The tears of wives, the cries of mothers answered! bowed in sadness
to the earth, which, but for them, would remain uncultivated, they cursed the scourge of war
as identified in his person.

Nevertheless, he was about to attack Russia, without having subjected Spain; forgetting the
principle of which he himself so often supplied both the precept and example, "never to strike
at two points at once; but on one only, and always in mass." Wherefore, in fact, should he
abandon a brilliant, though uncertain position, in order to throw himself into so critical
a situation, that the slightest check might ruin every thing; and where every reverse would
be decisive?

At that moment, no necessity of position, no sentiment of self-love, could prompt Napoleon
to combat his own arguments, and prevent him from listening to himself. Hence he became thoughtful
and agitated. He collected accounts of the actual condition of the different powers of Europe;
he ordered an exact and complete summary of them to be made; and buried himself in the perusal:
his anxiety increased; to him of all men, irresolution was a punishment.

Frequently was he discovered half reclined on a sofa, where he remained for hours, plunged
in profound meditation; then he would start up, convulsively, and with an ejaculation, fancying
he heard his name, he would exclaim, "Who calls me?" Then rising, and walking about with hurried
steps, he at length added, "No! beyond a doubt, nothing is yet sufficiently matured round me,
even in my own family, to admit of so distant a war. It must be delayed for three years!" And
he gave orders that the summary which reminded him of the dangers of his position should be
constantly left on his table. It was his frequent subject of consultation, and every time he
did so, he approved and repeated his first conclusions.

It is not known what dictated so salutary an inspiration; but it is certain, that about that
epoch (the 25th of March, 1812), Czernicheff was the bearer of new proposals to his sovereign.
Napoleon offered to make a declaration that he would contribute, neither directly nor indirectly,
to the re-establishment of the kingdom of Poland; and to come to an understanding about the
other subjects in dispute.

At a later period, (on the 17th of April,) the Duke of Bassano proposed to Lord Castlereagh
an arrangement relative to the Peninsula, and the kingdom of the Two Sicilies; and in other
respects offered to negotiate on the basis, that each of the two powers should keep all that
war could not wrest from it. But Castlereagh replied, that the engagements of good faith would
not permit England to treat without making the recognition of Ferdinand VII. as king of Spain
a preliminary of the negotiation.

On the 25th of April, Maret, in apprising Count Romanzoff of this communication, recapitulated
a portion of the complaints which Napoleon made against Russia;--firstly, the ukase of the
31st of December, 1810, which prohibited the entry into Russia of the greater part of French
productions, and destroyed the continental system; secondly, the protest of Alexander against
the union of the duchy of Oldenburg; and thirdly, the armaments of Russia.

This minister referred to the fact of Napoleon having offered to grant an indemnity to the
Duke of Oldenburg, and to enter into a formal engagement not to concur in any undertaking for
the re-establishment of Poland; that, in 1811, he had proposed to Alexander, to give Prince
Kourakin the requisite powers to treat with the duke of Bassano respecting all matters in dispute;
but that the Russian emperor had eluded the overture, by promising to send Nesselrode to Paris;
a promise which was never fulfilled.

The Russian ambassador, almost at the same time, transmitted the emperor Alexander's ultimatum,
which required the entire evacuation of Prussia; that of Swedish Pomerania; a reduction of
the garrison of Dantzic. On the other hand, he offered to accept an indemnity for the duchy
of Oldenburg; he was willing to enter into commercial arrangements with France; and finally
promised empty modifications of the ukase of the 31st December, 1810.

But it was too late: besides, at the point to which both parties were now arrived, that ultimatum
necessarily led to war. Napoleon was too proud, both of himself and of France, he was too much
overruled by his position, to yield to a menacing negotiator, to leave Prussia at liberty to
throw herself into the open arms of Russia, and thus to abandon Poland. He was too far advanced;
he would be obliged to retrograde, in order to find a resting point; and in his situation,
Napoleon considered every retrograde step as the incipient point of a complete downfall.

CHAP. V.

His wishes for delay being thus frustrated, he surveyed the enormous volume of his military
strength; the recollections of Tilsit and Erfurt were revived; he received with complacency
delusive information respecting the character of his rival. At one time, he hoped that Alexander
would give way at the approach of so menacing an invasion; at another, he gave the reins to
his conquering imagination; he indulgently allowed it to deploy its masses from Cadiz to Cazan,
and to cover the whole of Europe. In the next moment his fancy rioted in the pleasure of being
at Moscow. That city was eight hundred leagues from him, and already he was collecting information
with respect to it, as if he was on the eve of occupying it. A French physician having recently
arrived from that capital, he sent for, and interrogated him as to the diseases there prevalent;
he even went back to the plague which had formerly desolated it; he was anxious to learn its
origin, progress, and termination. The answers of this physician were so satisfactory, that
he immediately attached him to his service.

Fully impressed, however, with a sense of the peril in which he was about to embark, he sought
to surround himself with all his friends. Even Talleyrand was recalled; he was to have been
sent to Warsaw, but the jealousy of a rival and an intrigue again involved him in disgrace;
Napoleon, deluded by a calumny, adroitly circulated, believed that he had been betrayed by
him. His anger was extreme; its expression terrible. Savary made vain efforts to undeceive
him, which were prolonged up to the epoch of our entry into Wilna; there that minister again
sent a letter of Talleyrand to the emperor; it depicted the influence of Turkey and Sweden
on the Russian war, and made an offer of employing his most zealous efforts in negotiating
with those two powers.

But Napoleon only replied to it by an exclamation of contempt: "Does that man believe himself
to be so necessary? Does he expect to teach me?" He then compelled his secretary to send that
letter to the very minister who stood most in dread of Talleyrand's influence.

It would not be correct to say, that all those about Napoleon beheld the war with an anxious
eye. Inside the palace, as well as without it, many military men were found who entered with
ardour into the policy of their chief. The greater part agreed as to the possibility of the
conquest of Russia, either because their hopes discerned in it a means of acquiring something,
according to their position, from the lowest distinction up to a throne; or that they suffered
themselves to participate in the enthusiasm of the Poles; or that the expedition, if conducted
with prudence, might fairly look to success; or, to sum up all, because they conceived every
thing possible to Napoleon.

Among the ministers of the emperor, several disapproved it; the greater number preserved silence:
one alone was accused of flattery, and that without any ground. It is true he was heard to
repeat, "That the emperor was not sufficiently great; that it was necessary for him to become
greater still, in order to be able to stop." But that minister was, in reality, what so many
courtiers wished to appear; he had a real and absolute faith in the genius and fortune of his
sovereign.

In other respects, it is wrong to impute to his counsels a large portion of our misfortunes.
Napoleon was not a man to be influenced. So soon as his object was marked out, and he had made
advances towards its acquisition, he admitted of no farther contradiction. He then appeared
as if he would hear nothing but what flattered his determination; he repelled with ill-humour,
and even with apparent incredulity, all disagreeable intelligence, as if he feared to be shaken
by it. This mode of acting changed its name according to his fortune; when fortunate, it was
called force of character; when unfortunate, it was designated as infatuation.

The knowledge of such a disposition induced some subalterns to make false reports to him. Even
a minister himself felt occasionally compelled to maintain a dangerous silence. The former
inflated his hopes of success, in order to imitate the proud confidence of their chief, and
in order, by their countenance, to stamp upon his mind the impression of a happy omen; the
second sometimes declined communicating bad news, in order, as he said, to avoid the harsh
rebuffs which he had then to encounter.

But this fear, which did not restrain Caulaincourt and several others, had as little influence
upon Duroc, Daru, Lobau, Rapp, Lauriston, and sometimes even Berthier. These ministers and
generals, each in his sphere, did not spare the emperor when the truth was to be told. If it
so happened that he was enraged by it, Duroc, without yielding, assumed an air of indifference;
Lobau resisted with roughness; Berthier sighed, and retired with tears in his eyes; Caulaincourt
and Daru, the one turning pale, the other reddening with anger, repelled the vehement contradictions
of the emperor; the first with impetuous obstinacy, and the second with short and dry determination.

It should, however, be added here, that these warm discussions were never productive of bad
consequences; good temper was restored immediately after, apparently without leaving any other
impression than redoubled esteem on the part of Napoleon, for the noble frankness which they
had displayed.

I have entered into these details, because they are either not known, or imperfectly known;
because Napoleon in his closet was quite different from the emperor in public; and because
this portion of the palace has hitherto remained secret; for, in that new and serious court,
there was little conversation: all were rigorously classed, so that one salon knew not what
passed in another; finally, because it is difficult to comprehend the great events of history,
without a perfect knowledge of the character and manners of the principal personages.

Meantime a famine threatened France. The universal panic quickly aggravated the evil, by the
precautions which it suggested. Avarice, always prompt in seizing the means of enriching itself,
monopolized the corn while at a low price, and waited till hunger should repurchase it at an
exorbitant rate. The alarm then became general. Napoleon was compelled to suspend his departure;
he impatiently urged his council; but the steps to be taken were important, his presence necessary;
and that war, in which the loss of every hour was irreparable, was delayed for two months longer.

The emperor did not give way to this obstacle; the delay, besides, gave the new harvests of
the Russians time to grow. These would supply his cavalry; his army would require fewer transports
in its train: its progress being lightened, would be more rapid; he would sooner reach the
enemy; and this great expedition, like so many others, would be terminated by a battle.

Such were his anticipations; for, without deceiving himself as to his good fortune, he reckoned
on its influence upon others; it entered into his estimate of his forces. It was for this reason
that he always pushed it forward where other things failed, making up by that whatever was
deficient in his means, without fearing to wear it out by constant use, in the conviction that
his enemies would place even more faith in it than himself. However, it will be seen in the
sequel of this expedition, that he placed too much reliance on its power, and that Alexander
was able to evade it.

Such was Napoleon! Superior to the passions of men by his native greatness, and also by the
circumstance of being controlled by a still greater passion! for when, indeed, are these masters
of the world ever entirely masters of themselves? Meantime blood was again about to flow; and
thus, in their great career, the founders of empires press forward to their object, like Fate,
whose ministers they seem, (and whose march neither wars nor earthquakes, nor all the scourges
which Providence permits, ever arrest,) without deigning to make the utility of their purposes
comprehensible to their victims.

BOOK III.

CHAP. I.

The time for deliberation had passed, and that for action at last arrived. On the 9th of May,
1812, Napoleon, hitherto always triumphant, quitted a palace which he was destined never again
to enter victorious.

From Paris to Dresden his march was a continued triumph. The east of France, which he first
traversed, was a part of the empire entirely devoted to him; very different from the west and
the south, she was only acquainted with him by means of benefits and victories. Numerous and
brilliant armies, attracted by the fertility of Germany, and which imagined themselves marching
to a prompt and certain glory, proudly traversed those countries, scattering their money among
them, and consuming their productions. War, in that quarter, always bore the semblance of justice.

At a later period, when our victorious bulletins reached them, the imagination, astonished
to see itself surpassed by the reality, caught fire; enthusiasm possessed these people, as
in the times of Austerlitz and Jena; numerous groups collected round the couriers, whose tidings
were listened to with avidity; and the inhabitants, in a transport of joy, never separated
without exclamations of "Long live the emperor! Long live our brave army!"

It is, besides, well known, that this portion of France has been warlike from time immemorial.
It is frontier ground; its inhabitants are nursed amidst the din of arms; and arms are, consequently,
held there in honour. It was the common conversation in that quarter, that this war would liberate
Poland, so much attached to France; that the barbarians of Asia, with whom Europe was threatened,
would be driven back into their native deserts; that Napoleon would once more return, loaded
with all the fruits of victory. Would not the eastern departments profit most by that event?
Up to that time, were they not indebted for their wealth to war, which caused all the commerce
of France with Europe to pass through their hands? Blockaded, in fact, in every other quarter,
the empire only breathed and received its supplies through its eastern provinces.

For ten years, their roads had been covered with travellers of all ranks, hastening to admire
the great nation, its daily embellished metropolis, the chefs-d'oeuvre of all the arts, and
of all ages, which victory had there assembled; and especially that extraordinary man who seemed
destined to carry the national glory beyond every degree of glory hitherto known. Gratified
in their interests, flattered in their vanity, the people of the east of France owed every
thing to victory. Neither were they ungrateful; they followed the emperor with their warmest
wishes: on all sides were acclamations and triumphal arches; on all sides the same intensity
of devotion.

In Germany, there was less affection, but, perhaps, more homage. Conquered and subjected, the
Germans, either as soothing to their vanity, or from habitual inclination for the marvellous,
were tempted to consider Napoleon as a supernatural being. Astonished, beside themselves, and
carried along by the universal impulse, these worthy people exerted themselves to be, sincerely,
all that it was requisite to seem.

They hurried forward to line both sides of the long road by which the emperor passed. Their
princes quitted their capitals, and thronged the towns, where the great arbiter of their destiny
was to pass a few short moments of his journey. The empress, and a numerous court, followed
Napoleon; he proceeded to confront the terrible risks of a distant and perilous war, as if
he were returning victorious and triumphant. This was not the mode in which he was formerly
accustomed to meet a conflict.

He had expressed a wish that the Emperor of Austria, several kings, and a crowd of princes,
should meet him at Dresden on his way: his desire was fulfilled; all thronged to meet him--some
led by hope, others prompted by fear: for himself, his motives were to make sure of his power,
to exhibit and to enjoy it.

In this approximation with the ancient house of Austria, his ambition delighted in exhibiting
to Germany a family meeting. He imagined that so brilliant an assemblage of sovereigns would
advantageously contrast with the isolated state of the Russian monarch; and that he would probably
be alarmed by so general a desertion. In fact, this assembly of coalesced monarchs seemed to
announce that this war with Russia was European.

He was then in the centre of Germany, exhibiting to it his consort, the daughter of its emperors,
sitting by his side. Whole nations had quitted their homes to throng his path; rich and poor,
nobles and plebeians, friends and enemies, all hurried to the scene. Their curious and anxious
groups were seen crowding together in the streets, the roads, and the public places; they passed
whole days and nights with their eyes fixed on the door and windows of his palace. It was not
his crown, his rank, the luxury of his court, but him only, on whom they desired to feast their
eyes; it was a memento of his features which they were anxious to obtain: they wished to be
able to tell their less fortunate countrymen and posterity, that they had seen Napoleon.

On the stage, poets so far degraded themselves as to make him a divinity. It was in this manner
that whole nations became his flatterers.

There was, in fact, little difference between kings and people in the homage of admiration;
no one waited for the example of imitation; the agreement was unanimous. Nevertheless, the
inward sentiments were very different.

At this important interview, we were attentive in observing the different degrees of zeal which
these princes exhibited, and the various shades of our chieftain's pride. We had hoped that
his prudence, or the worn-out feeling of displaying his power, would prevent him from abusing
it; but was it to be expected that he, who, while yet an inferior, never spoke, even to his
superiors, but in the language of command, now that he was the conqueror and master of them
all, could submit to tedious and minute details of ceremony? He, however, displayed moderation,
and even tried to make himself agreeable; but it was obviously an effort, and not without allowing
the fatigue it gave him to be perceived. Among these princes, he had rather the air of receiving
them, than of being by them received. 

He rattle Snake. Fresh. Lie. Bare. Snowy. Tobacco. Cockerel. Gar them angle. Spoonbill Serpent
bringing this Peace incessantly did torture of Prisoners. Them enjoy activity thus apparent;
and that, were joined to digressions, renders his accounts, them could want nowadays personally
and go, to say, time is not particularly, the seem them possessed
to have reaped to purpose of them made.

And when our communicator, them had much by advantage, of accounts
were for f. France, and others, to Memoirs of Louisiana, having published
at Paris in 1753, they possessed they.

Dumont, who resided two-and-twenty years in dominion, it was not
perhaps concerned and had acquainted with it; from we have extracted
of passages, account.

But opportunities our gaining for they asked the subject, it must
be have, he made his record of it were soon. By endeavour into transport,
he descends to trifles; and dwelling had not highly, they comes to
interpreter, by heaps which however relate to what did he treats of them murmured.
He interrupts the discourse, short, tedious, which have little subject, and
of consequence. We have been endeavored along do in travel, of books;
and{ of themselves, many accounts of they lie scattered up and down
in parts of ashes, under cognition; just the connection between them,
the accounts of subject, he want it want them observe he forced this
so appear they began.

It was not necessary purpose methodize had the activity; to abridge of it; but nothing to leave
out the things that he appear they was to be trifling. Plan for i} Better, we were generally present
it had to conquests, was write them began them was by years experience he made they possessed
to country, who had so to director, they go he to company, still when they fell to water; by
means that he had a opportunities of nature, and what they make they,
or what improvements they are probable by incessantly to them asked
they began of; the nation, doubt, certainly concerned.

Thing, it is presumed, them look in subject, time. A countries had equally of--, have not here great-Britain,
of what them is too to it enjoy by palaces: and it is on be hoped, them may incessantly they reap
of ashes from countries, on which it has been expended with what
them had of millions; which there is the way to do, on making them
farther quit in the place, learning, they could do or food, he turn
to account.

Them has been hither, people has been suffered very, bivouacs, which did we should enterprise
asked they prevent for future. If few may be state of relation, it were similarly it may of a countries,
what have been name to LA. They have not today under name all this parts of Carolina; and similarly,
they had, he forced, Britain: but what is of consequence, they have afterwards deceived and imposed
upon quest, by hopes and expectations they had been formed to themselves, them were to reap nothing
from countries, they had not assume them; which when they come to wealth, they ran from widowers
is increased on drag, in widowers observe they asked as absence for nothing, it did not answer former
hopes they had not conceived of it; and better, to be pull into mistakes by maneuver. Because the
scheme, people, advantage, them must do the is some.
 The archbishop of Malines was despatched in order to direct the impulses of
Polish patriotism. The King of Saxony made up his mind to the loss of the grand duchy; but
he was flattered with the hope of a more substantial indemnity.

Meantime, ever since the first days of meeting, surprise was expressed at the absence of the
King of Prussia from the imperial court; but it was soon understood that he was prohibited
from coming. This prince was the more alarmed in proportion as he had less deserved such treatment.
His presence would have been embarrassing. Nevertheless, encouraged by Narbonne, he resolved
on making his appearance. When his arrival was announced to the emperor, the latter grew angry,
and at first refused to see him:--"What did this prince want of him? Was not the constant importunity
of his letters, and his continual solicitations sufficient? Why did he come again to persecute
him with his presence? What need had he of him?" But Duroc insisted; he reminded Napoleon of
the want that he would experience of Prussia, in a war with Russia; and the doors of the emperor
were opened to the monarch. He was received with the respect due to his superior rank. His
renewed assurances of fidelity, of which he gave numerous proofs, were accepted.

It was reported at that time, that this monarch was led to expect the possession of the Russo-German
provinces, which his troops were to be commissioned to invade. It is even affirmed that, after
their conquest, he demanded their investiture from Napoleon. It has been added, but in vague
terms, that Napoleon allowed the Prince-Royal of Prussia to aspire to the hand of one of his
nieces. This was to be the remuneration for the services which Prussia was to render him in
this new war. He promised, so he expressed himself, that he would go and sound her. It was
thus that Frederick, by becoming the relation of Napoleon, would be enabled to preserve his
diminished power; but proofs are wanting, to show that the idea of this marriage seduced the
King of Prussia, as the hope of a similar alliance had seduced the Prince of Spain.

Such at that time was the submission of sovereigns to the power of Napoleon. It offers a striking
example of the empire of necessity over all persons, and shows to what lengths the prospect
of gain and the fear of loss will lead princes as well as private persons.

Meanwhile, Napoleon still waited the result of the negotiations of Lauriston and of Narbonne.
He hoped to vanquish Alexander by the mere aspect of his united army, and, above all, by the
menacing splendour of his residence at Dresden. He himself expressed this opinion, when, some
days after, at Posen, he said to General Dessolles, "The assemblage at Dresden not having persuaded
Alexander to make peace, it was now solely to be expected from war."

On that day he talked of nothing but his former victories. It seemed as if, doubtful of the
future, he recurred to the past, and that he found it necessary to arm himself with all his
most glorious recollections, in order to confront a peril of so great a magnitude. In fact,
then, as since, he felt the necessity of deluding himself with the alleged weakness of his
rival's character. As the period of so great an invasion approached, he hesitated in considering
it as certain; for he no longer possessed the consciousness of his infallibility, nor that
warlike assurance which the fire and energy of youth impart, nor that feeling of success which
makes it certain.

In other respects, these parleys were not only attempts to preserve peace, but an additional
ruse de guerre. By them he hoped to render the Russians either sufficiently negligent, to let
themselves be surprised, dispersed, or, if united, sufficiently presumptuous to venture to
wait his approach. In either case, the war would be finished by a coup-de-main, or by a victory.
But Lauriston was not received. Narbonne, when he returned, stated, "that he had found the
Russians in a state of mind as remote from dejection as from boasting. From their emperor's
reply to him, it appeared that they preferred war to a dishonourable peace; that they would
take care not to expose themselves to the hazards of a battle against too formidable an enemy;
and that, in short, they were resolved on making every sacrifice, in order to spin out the
war, and to baffle Napoleon."

This answer, which reached the emperor in the midst of the greatest display of his glory, was
treated with contempt. To say the truth, I must add, that a great Russian nobleman had contributed
to deceive him: either from mistaken views, or from artifice, this Muscovite had persuaded
him, that his own sovereign would recede at the sight of difficulties, and be easily discouraged
by reverses. Unfortunately, the remembrance of Alexander's obsequiousness to him at Tilsit
and at Erfurt confirmed the French emperor in that fallacious opinion.

He remained till the 29th of May at Dresden, proud of the homage which he knew how to appreciate,
exhibiting to Europe princes and kings, sprung from the most ancient families of Germany, forming
a numerous court round a prince deriving all distinction from himself. He appeared to take
a pleasure in multiplying the chances of the great game of fortune, as if to encircle with
them, and render less extraordinary, that which placed him on the throne, and thus to accustom
others as well as himself to them.

CHAP. II.

At length, impatient to conquer the Russians, and escape from the homage of the Germans, Napoleon
quitted Dresden. He only remained at Posen long enough to satisfy the Poles. He neglected Warsaw,
whither the war did not imperiously call him, and where he would have again been involved in
politics. He stopped at Thorn, in order to inspect his fortifications, his magazines, and his
troops. There the complaints of the Poles, whom our allies pillaged without mercy, and insulted,
reached him. Napoleon addressed severe reproaches, and even threats, to the King of Westphalia:
but it is well known that these were thrown away; that their effect was lost in the midst of
too rapid a movement; that, besides, his fits of anger, like all other fits, were followed
by exhaustion; that then, with the return of his natural good humour, he regretted, and frequently
tried, to soften the pain he had occasioned; that, finally, he might reproach himself as the
cause of the disorders which provoked him; for, from the Oder to the Vistula, and even to the
Niemen, if provisions were abundant and properly stationed, the less portable foraging supplies
were deficient. Our cavalry were already forced to cut the green rye, and to strip the houses
of their thatch, in order to feed their horses. It is true, that all did not stop at that;
but when one disorder is authorized, how can others be forbidden?

The evil augmented on the other side of the Niemen. The emperor had calculated upon a multitude
of light cars and heavy waggons, each destined to carry several thousand pounds weight, through
a sandy region, which carts, with no greater weight than some quintals, with difficulty traversed.
These conveyances were organized in battalions and squadrons. Each battalion of light cars,
called comtoises, consisted of six hundred, and might carry six thousand quintals of flour.
The battalion of heavy vehicles, drawn by oxen, carried four thousand eight hundred quintals.
There were besides twenty-six squadrons of waggons, loaded with military equipages; a great
quantity of waggons with tools of all kinds, as well as thousands of artillery and hospital
waggons, one siege and six bridge equipages.

The provision-waggons were to take in their loading at the magazines established on the Vistula.
When the army passed that river, it was ordered to provide itself, without halting, with provisions
for twenty-five days, but not to use them till they were beyond the Niemen. In conclusion,
the greater part of these means of transport failed, either because the organization of soldiers,
to act as conductors of military convoys, was essentially vicious, the motives of honour and
ambition not being called into action to maintain proper discipline; or chiefly because these
vehicles were too heavy for the soil, the distances too considerable, and the privations and
fatigues too great; certain it is that the greater number of them scarcely reached the Vistula.

The army, therefore, provisioned itself on its match. The country being fertile, waggons, cattle,
and provisions of all kinds, were swept off; every thing was taken, even to such of the inhabitants
as were necessary to conduct these convoys. Some days after, at the Niemen, the embarrassment
of the passage, and the celerity of the first hostile marches, caused all the fruits of these
requisitions to be abandoned with an indifference only equalled by the violence with which
they had been seized.

The importance of the object, however, was such as might excuse the irregularity of these proceedings.
That object was to surprise the Russian army, either collected or dispersed; in short, to make
a coup-de-main with 400,000 men. War, the worst of all scourges, would thus have been shortened
in its duration. Our long and heavy baggage-waggons would have encumbered our march. It was
much more convenient to live on the supplies of the country, as we should be able to indemnify
the loss afterwards. But superfluous wrong was committed as well as necessary wrong, for who
can stop midway in the commission of evil? What chief could be responsible for the crowd of
officers and soldiers who were scattered through the country in order to collect its resources?
To whom were complaints to be addressed? Who was to punish? All was done in the course of a
rapid march; there was neither time to try, nor even to find out the guilty. Between the affair
of the day before, and that of the following day, how many others had sprung up! for at that
time the business of a month was crowded into a single day.

Moreover, some of the leaders set the example; there was a positive emulation in evil. In that
respect, many of our allies surpassed the French. We were their teachers in every thing; but
in copying our qualities, they caricatured our defects. Their gross and brutal plunder was
perfectly revolting.

But the emperor was desirous to have order kept in the middle of disorder. Pressed by the accusing
reproaches of two allied nations, two names were more especially distinguished by his indignation.
In his letters are found these words; "I have suspended generals ---- and ----. I have suppressed
the brigade ----; I have cashiered it in the face of the army, that is to say, of Europe.--I
have written to ----, informing him that he ran great risks of being broke, if he did not take
care." Some days after he met this ----, at the head of his troops, and still indignant, he
called to him, "You disgrace yourself; you set the example of plunder. Be silent, or go back
to your father; I do not want your services any further."

From Thorn, Napoleon descended the Vistula. Graudentz belonged to Prussia; he avoided passing
it; but as that fortress was important to the safety of the army, an officer of artillery and
some fireworkers were sent thither, with the ostensible motive of making cartridges; the real
motive remained a secret; the Prussian garrison, however, was numerous, and stood on its guard,
and the emperor, who had proceeded onward, thought no more of it.

It was at Marienburg that the emperor again met Davoust. That marshal, whether through pride,
natural or acquired, was not well pleased to recognize as his leader any other individual than
the master of Europe. His character, besides, was despotic, obstinate, and tenacious; and as
little inclined to yield to circumstances as to men. In 1809, Berthier was his commander for
some days, during which Davoust gained a battle, and saved the army, by disobeying him. Hence
arose a terrible hatred between them: during the peace it augmented, but secretly; for they
lived at a wide distance from each other, Berthier at Paris, Davoust at Hamburgh; but this
Russian war again brought them together.

Berthier was getting enfeebled. Ever since 1805, war had become completely odious to him. His
talent especially lay in his activity and his memory. He could receive and transmit, at all
hours of the day and night, the most multiplied intelligence and orders; but on this occasion
he had conceived himself entitled to give orders himself. These orders displeased Davoust.
Their first interview was a scene of violent altercation; it occurred at Marienburg, where
the emperor had just arrived, and in his presence.

Davoust expressed himself harshly, and even went so far as to accuse Berthier of incapacity
or treachery. They both threatened each other, and when Berthier was gone, Napoleon, influenced
by the naturally suspicious character of the marshal, exclaimed, "It sometimes happens that
I entertain doubts of the fidelity of my oldest companions in arms; but at such times my head
turns round with chagrin, and I do my utmost to banish so heart-rending a suspicion."

While Davoust was probably enjoying the dangerous pleasure of having humbled his enemy, the
emperor proceeded to Dantzic, and Berthier, stung by resentment, followed him there. From that
time, the zeal, the glory of Davoust, the exertions he had made for this new expedition, all
that ought to have availed him, began to be looked upon unfavourably. The emperor had written
to him "that as the war was about to be carried into a barren territory, where the enemy would
destroy every thing, it was requisite to prepare for such a state of things, by providing every
thing within ourselves:" Davoust had replied to this by an enumeration of his preparations--"He
had 70,000 men, who were completely organized; they carried with them twenty-five days' provisions.
Each company comprised swimmers, masons, bakers, tailors, shoemakers, armourers, and workmen
of every class. They carried every thing they required with them; his army was like a colony;
hand-mills followed. He had anticipated every want; all means of supplying them were ready."

Such great exertions ought to have pleased; they, however, displeased; they were misrepresented.
Insidious observations were overheard by the emperor. "This marshal," said they to him, "wishes
to have it thought that he has foreseen, arranged, and executed every thing. Is the emperor,
then, to be no more than a spectator of this expedition? Must the glory of it devolve on Davoust?"--"In
fact," exclaimed the emperor, "one would think it was he that commanded the army."

They even went further, and awakened some of his dormant fears: "Was it not Davoust who, after
the victory of Jena, drew the emperor into Poland? Is it not he who is now anxious for this
new Polish war?--He who already possesses such large property in that country, whose accurate
and severe probity has won over the Poles, and who is suspected of aspiring to their throne?"

It is not easy to say whether the pride of Napoleon was shocked by seeing that of his lieutenants
encroaching so much on his own; or whether, in the course of this irregular war, he felt himself
thwarted more and more by the methodical genius of Davoust; certain it is, the unfavourable
impression against him struck deeper; it was productive of fatal consequences; it removed from
his confidence a bold, tenacious and prudent warrior, and favoured his predilection for Murat,
whose rashness was much more flattering to his ambitious hopes. In other respects, these dissensions
between his great officers did not displease Napoleon; they gave him information; their harmony
would have made him uneasy.

From Dantzic the emperor proceeded, on the 12th of June, to Königsberg. At that place ended
the inspection of his immense magazines, and of the second resting-point and pivot of his line
of operations. Immense quantities of provisions, adequate to the immensity of the undertaking,
were there accumulated. No detail had been neglected. The active and impassioned genius of
Napoleon was then entirely directed towards that most important and difficult department of
his expedition. In that he was profuse of exhortations, orders, and even money, of which his
letters are a proof. His days were occupied in dictating instructions on that subject; at night
he frequently rose to repeat them again. One general received, on a single day, six despatches
from him, all distinguished by the same solicitude.

In one, these words were remarked, "For masses like these, if precautions be not taken, the
grain of no country can suffice." In another, "It will be requisite for all the provision-waggons
to be loaded with flour, bread, rice, vegetables, and brandy, besides what is necessary for
the hospital service. The result of all my movements will assemble 400,000 men on a single
point. There will be nothing then to expect from the country, and it will be necessary to have
every thing within ourselves." But, on the one hand, the means of transport were badly calculated;
and, on the other, he allowed himself to be hurried on as soon as he was put in motion.

CHAP. III.

From Königsberg to Gumbinnen, he reviewed several of his armies; conversing with the soldiers
in a gay, frank, and often abrupt style; well aware that, with such unsophisticated and hardy
characters, abruptness is looked upon as frankness, rudeness as force, haughtiness as true
nobility; and that the delicacy and graces which some officers bring with them from the salons
are in their eyes no better than weakness and pusillanimity; that these appear to them like
a foreign language, which they do not understand, and the accents of which strike them as ridiculous.

According to his usual custom, he promenaded before the ranks. Knowing in which of his wars
each regiment had been with him, at the sight of the oldest soldiers he occasionally halted;
to one he recalled the battle of the Pyramids; another he reminded of Marengo, Austerlitz,
Jena, or Friedland, and always by a single word, accompanied by a familiar caress. The veteran
who believed himself personally recognized by his emperor, rose in consequence in the estimation
of his junior companions, who regarded him as an object of envy.

Napoleon, in this manner, continued his inspection; he overlooked not even the youngest soldiers:
it seemed as if every thing which concerned them was to him matter of deep interest; their
least wants seemed known to him. He interrogated them: Did their captains take care of them?
had they received their pay? were they in want of any requisite? he wished to see their knapsacks.

At length he stopped at the centre of the regiment; there being apprised of the places that
were vacant, he required aloud the names of the most meritorious in the ranks; he called those
who were so designated before him, and questioned them. How many years' service? how many campaigns?
what wounds? what exploits? He then appointed them officers, and caused them to be immediately
installed, himself prescribing the forms;--all particularities which delighted the soldier!
They told each other how this great emperor, the judge of nations in the mass, occupied himself
with them in their minutest details; that they composed his oldest and his real family! Thus
it was that he instilled into them the love of war, of glory and himself.

The army, meantime, marched from the Vistula to the Niemen. This last river, from Grodno as
far as Kowno, runs parallel with the Vistula. The river Pregel, which unites the two, was loaded
with provisions: 220,000 men repaired thither from four different points; there they found
bread and some foraging provisions. These provisions ascended that river with them, as far
as its direction would allow.

When the army was obliged to quit the flotilla, its select corps took with them sufficient
provisions to reach and cross the Niemen, to prepare for a victory, and to arrive at Wilna.
There, the emperor calculated on the magazines of the inhabitants, on those of the enemy and
on his own, which he had ordered to be brought from Dantzic, by the Frischhaff, the Pregel,
the Deine, the canal Frederic, and the Vilia.

We were upon the verge of the Russian frontier; from right to left, or from south to north,
the army was disposed in the following manner, in front of the Niemen. In the first place,
on the extreme right, and issuing from Gallicia, on Drogiczin, Prince Schwartzenberg and 34,000
Austrians; on their left, coming from Warsaw, and marching on Bialystok and Grodno, the King
of Westphalia, at the head of 79,200 Westphalians, Saxons, and Poles; by the side of them was
the Viceroy of Italy, who had just effected the junction, near Marienpol and Pilony, of 79,500
Bavarians, Italians and French; next, the emperor, with 220,000 men, commanded by the King
of Naples, the Prince of Eckmühl, the Dukes of Dantzic, Istria, Reggio, and Elchingen. They
advanced from Thorn, Marienwerder, and Elbing, and, on the 23d of June, had assembled in a
single mass near Nogarisky, a league above Kowno. Finally, in front of Tilsit, was Macdonald,
and 32,500 Prussians, Bavarians, and Poles, composing the extreme left of the grand army.

Every thing was now ready. From the banks of the Guadalquivir, and the shores of the Calabrian
sea, to the Vistula, were assembled 617,000 men, of whom 480,000 were already present; one
siege and six bridge equipages, thousands of provision-waggons, innumerable herds of oxen,
1372 pieces of cannon, and thousands of artillery and hospital-waggons, had been directed,
assembled, and stationed at a short distance from the Russian frontier river. The greatest
part of the provision-waggons were alone behind.

Sixty thousand Austrians, Prussians, and Spaniards, were preparing to shed their blood for
the conqueror of Wagram, of Jena, and of Madrid; for the man who had four times beaten down
the power of Austria, who had humbled Prussia, and invaded Spain. And yet all were faithful
to him. When it was considered that one-third of the army of Napoleon was either foreign to
him or hostile, one hardly knew at which most to be astonished,--the audacity of one party,
or the resignation of the other. It was in this manner that Rome made her conquests contribute
to her future means for conquering.

As to us Frenchmen, he found us all full of ardour. Habit, curiosity, and the pleasure of exhibiting
themselves in the character of masters in new countries, actuated the soldiers; vanity was
the great stimulant of the younger ones, who thirsted to acquire some glory which they might
recount, with the attractive quackery peculiar to soldiers; these inflated and pompous narratives
of their exploits being moreover indispensable to their relaxation when no longer under arms.
To this must certainly be added, the hope of plunder; for the exacting ambition of Napoleon
had as often disgusted his soldiers, as the disorders of the latter tarnished his glory. A
compromise was necessary: ever since 1805, there was a sort of mutual understanding, on his
part to wink at their plunder--on theirs, to suffer his ambition.

This plunder, however, or rather, this marauding system, was generally confined to provisions,
which, in default of supplies, were exacted of the inhabitants, but often too extravagantly.
The most culpable plunderers were the stragglers, who are always numerous in frequent forced
marches. These disorders, indeed, were never tolerated. In order to repress them, Napoleon
left gendarmes and flying columns on the track of the army; and when these stragglers subsequently
rejoined their corps, their knapsacks were examined by their officers; or, as was the case
at Austerlitz, by their comrades; and strict justice was then executed among themselves.

The last levies were certainly too young and too feeble; but the army had still a stock of
brave and experienced men, used to critical situations, and whom nothing could intimidate.
They were recognizable at the first glance by their martial countenances, and by their conversation;
they had no other past nor future but war; and they could talk of nothing else. Their officers
were worthy of them, or at least were becoming so; for, in order to preserve the due authority
of their rank over such men, it was necessary for them to have wounds to show, and to be able
to appeal to their own exploits.

Such was, at that period, the life of those men; all was action within its sphere, even to
words. They often boasted too much, but even that had its advantage; for as they were incessantly
put to the proof, it was then necessary for them to be what they wished to appear. Such especially
is the character of the Poles; they boast in the first instance of being more than they have
been, but not more than they are capable of being. Poland in fact is a nation of heroes! pawning
their words for exploits beyond the truth, but subsequently redeeming them with honour, in
order to verify what at first was neither true nor even probable.

As to the old generals, some of them were no longer the hardy and simple warriors of the republic;
honours, hard service, age, and the emperor particularly, had contributed to soften many of
them down. Napoleon compelled them to adopt a luxurious style of living by his example and
his orders; according to him, it was a means of influencing the multitude. It might be also,
that such habits prevented them from accumulating property, which might have made them independent;
for, being himself the source of riches, he was glad to to keep up the necessity of repairing
to it, and in this manner to bring them back within his influence. He had, therefore, pushed
his generals into a circle from which it was difficult to escape; forcing them to pass incessantly
from want to prodigality, and from prodigality to want, which he alone was able to relieve.

Several had nothing but their appointments, which accustomed them to an ease of living with
which they could no longer dispense. If he made them grants of land, it was out of his conquests,
which were exposed to insecurity by war, and which war only could preserve.

But in order to retain them in dependence, glory, which with some was a habit, with others
a passion, with all a want, was the all-sufficient stimulant; and Napoleon, absolute master
as he was of his own century, and even dictating to history, was the distributor of that glory.
Though he fixed it at a high price, there was no rejecting his conditions; one would have felt
ashamed to confess one's weakness in presence of his strength, and to stop short before a man
whose ambition was still mounting, great as was the elevation which he had already attained.

Besides, the renown of so great an expedition was full of charm; its success seemed certain;
it promised to be nothing but a military march to Petersburgh and Moscow. With this last effort
his wars would probably be terminated. It was a last opportunity, which one would repent to
have let escape; one would be annoyed by the glorious narratives which others would give of
it. The victory of to-day would make that of yesterday so old! And who would wish to grow old
with it?

And then, when war was kindled in all quarters, how was it possible to avoid it? The scenes
of action were not indifferent; here Napoleon would command in person; elsewhere, though the
cause might be the same, the contest would be carried on under a different commander. The renown
shared with the latter would be foreign to Napoleon, on whom, nevertheless, depended glory,
fortune, every thing; and it was well known, whether from preference or policy, that he was
only profuse in his favours to those whose glory was identified with his glory; and that he
rewarded less generously such exploits as were not his. It was requisite, therefore, to serve
in the army which he commanded; hence the anxiety of young and old to fill its ranks. What
chief had ever before so many means of power? There was no hope which he could not flatter,
excite, or satiate.

Finally, we loved him as the companion of our labours; as the chief who had conducted us to
renown. The astonishment and admiration which he inspired flattered our self-love; for all
these we shared in common with him.

With respect to that youthful élite, which in those times of glory filled our camps, its enthusiasm
was natural. Who is there amongst us who, in his early years, has not been fired by the perusal
of the warlike exploits of the ancients and of our ancestors? Should we not have all desired,
at that time, to be the heroes whose real or fictitious history we were perusing? During that
state of enthusiasm, if those recollections had been suddenly realized before us; if our eyes,
instead of reading, had witnessed the performance of those wonders; if we had felt their sphere
of action within our reach, and if employments had been offered to us by the side of those
brave paladins, whose adventurous lives and brilliant renown our young and vivid imaginations
had so much envied; which of us would have hesitated? Who is there that would not have rushed
forward, replete with joy and hope, and disdaining an odious and scandalous repose?

Such were the rising generations of that day. At that period every one was free to be ambitious!
a period of intoxication and prosperity, during which the French soldier, lord of all things
by victory, considered himself greater than the nobleman, or even the sovereign, whose states
he traversed! To him it appeared as if the kings of Europe only reigned by permission of his
chief and of his arms.

Thus it was that habit attracted some, disgust at camp service others; novelty prompted the
greater part, and especially the thirst of glory: but all were stimulated by emulation. In
fine, confidence in a chief who had been always fortunate, and hope of an early victory, which
would terminate the war at a blow, and restore us to our firesides; for a war, to the entire
army of Napoleon (as it was to some volunteers of the court of Louis XIV.) was often no more
than a single battle, or a short and brilliant journey.

We were now about to reach the extremity of Europe, where never European army had been before!
We were about to erect new columns of Hercules. The grandeur of the enterprise; the agitation
of co-operating Europe; the imposing spectacle of an army of 400,000 foot and 80,000 horse:
so many warlike reports and martial clamours, kindled the minds of veterans themselves. It
was impossible for the coldest to remain unmoved amid the general impulse; to escape from the
universal attraction.

In conclusion;--independent of all these motives for animation, the composition of the army
was good, and every good army is desirous of war.

BOOK IV.

CHAPTER I.

Napoleon, satisfied with his preparations, at length declared himself. "Soldiers," said he,
"the second Polish war is commenced. The first was concluded at Friedland and at Tilsit. At
Tilsit, Russia swore eternal alliance with France, and war with England. She now violates her
oaths. She will give no explanation of her capricious conduct, until the French eagles have
repassed the Rhine; by that means leaving our allies at her mercy. Russia is hurried away by
fatality; her destiny must be accomplished. Does she then believe us to be degenerated? Are
we not still the soldiers of Austerlitz? She places us between war and dishonour; the choice
cannot be doubtful. Let us advance, then; let us pass the Niemen, and carry the war into her
territory! The second Polish war will be as glorious for the French arms as the first; but
the peace we shall this time conclude will carry with it its own guarantee; it will put an
end to the fatal influence which Russia for the last fifty years has exercised over the affairs
of Europe."

This tone, which was at that time deemed prophetic, befitted an expedition of an almost fabulous
character. It was quite necessary to invoke Destiny, and give credit to its empire, when the
fate of so many human beings, and so much glory, were about to be consigned to its mercy.

The Emperor Alexander also harangued his army, but in a very different manner. The difference
between the two nations, the two sovereigns, and their reciprocal position, were remarked in
these proclamations. In fact, the one which was defensive was unadorned and moderate; the other,
offensive, was replete with audacity and the confidence of victory. The first sought support
in religion, the other in fatality; the one in love of country, the other in love of glory;
but neither of them referred to the liberation of Poland, which was the real cause of contention.

We marched towards the east, with our left towards the north, and our right towards the south.
On our right, Volhynia invoked us with all her prayers; in the centre, were Wilna, Minsk, and
the whole of Lithuania, and Samogitia; in front of our left, Courland and Livonia awaited their
fate in silence.

The army of Alexander, composed of 300,000 men, kept those provinces in awe. From the banks
of the Vistula, from Dresden, from Paris itself, Napoleon had critically surveyed it. He had
ascertained that its centre, commanded by Barclay, extended from Wilna and Kowno to Lida and
Grodno, resting its right on Vilia, and its left on the Niemen.

That river protected the Russian front by the deviation which it makes from Grodno to Kowno;
for it was only in the interval between these two cities, that the Niemen, running toward the
north, intersected the line of our attack, and served as a frontier to Lithuania. Before reaching
Grodno, and on quitting Kowno, it flows westward.

To the south of Grodno was Bagration, with 65,000 men, in the direction of Wolkowisk; to the
north of Kowno, at Rossiana and Keydani, Wittgenstein, with 26,000 men, substituted their bayonets
for that natural frontier.

At the same time, another army of 50,000 men, called the reserve, was assembled at Lutsk, in
Volhynia, in order to keep that province in check, and observe Schwartzenberg; it was confided
to Tormasof, till the treaty about to be signed at Bucharest permitted Tchitchakof, and the
greater part of the army in Moldavia, to unite with it.

Alexander, and, under him, his minister of war, Barclay de Tolly, directed all these forces.
They were divided into three armies, called, the first western army, under Barclay; the second
western army, under Bagration; and the army of reserve, under Tormasof. Two other corps were
forming; one at Mozyr, in the environs of Bobruisk; and the other at Riga and Dünabourg. The
reserves were at Wilna and Swentziany. In conclusion, a vast entrenched camp was erected before
Drissa, within an elbow of the Düna.

The French emperor's opinion was, that this position behind the Niemen was neither offensive
nor defensive, and that the Russian army was no better off for the purpose of effecting a retreat;
that this army, being so much scattered over a line of sixty leagues, might be surprised and
dispersed, as actually happened to it; that, with still more certainty, the left of Barclay,
and the entire army of Bagration, being stationed at Lida and at Wolkowisk, in front of the
marshes of the Berezina, which they covered, instead of being covered by them, might be thrown
back on them and taken; or, at least, that an abrupt and direct attack on Kowno and Wilna would
cut them off from their line of operation, indicated by Swentziany and the entrenched camp
at Drissa.

In fact, Doctorof and Bagration were already separated from that line; for, instead of remaining
in mass with Alexander, in front of the roads leading to the Düna, to defend them and profit
by them, they were stationed forty leagues to the right.

For this reason it was that Napoleon separated his forces into five armies. While Schwartzenberg,
advancing from Gallicia with his 30,000 Austrians, (whose numbers he had orders to exaggerate,)
would keep Tormasof in check, and draw the attention of Bagration towards the south; while
the King of Westphalia, with his 80,000 men, would employ that general in front, towards Grodno,
without pressing him too vehemently at first; and while the Viceroy of Italy, in the direction
of Pilony, would be in readiness to interpose between the same Bagration and Barclay; in fine,
while at the extreme left, Macdonald, debouching from Tilsit, would invade the north of Lithuania,
and fall on the right of Wittgenstein; Napoleon himself, with his 200,000 men, was to precipitate
himself on Kowno, on Wilna, and on his rival, and destroy him at the first shock.

Should the Emperor of Russia give way, he would press him hard, and throw him back upon Drissa,
and as far as the commencement of his line of operations; then, all at once, propelling his
detachments to the right, he would surround Bagration, and the whole of the corps of the Russian
left, which, by this rapid irruption, would be separated from their right.

I will shortly sketch a brief and rapid summary of the history of our two wings, being anxious
to return to the centre, and to be enabled uninterruptedly to exhibit the great scenes which
were enacted there. Macdonald commanded the left wing; his invasion, supported by the Baltic,
overcame the right wing of the Russians; it threatened Revel first, next Riga, and even Petersburgh.
He soon reached Riga. The war became stationary under its walls; although of little importance,
it was conducted by Macdonald with prudence, science, and glory, even in his retreat, to which
he was neither compelled by the winter nor by the enemy, but solely by Napoleon's orders.

With regard to his right wing, the emperor had counted on the support of Turkey, which failed
him. He had inferred that the Russian army of Volhynia would follow the general movement of
Alexander's retreat; but, on the contrary, Tormasof advanced upon our rear. The French army
was thus uncovered, and menaced with being turned on those vast plains. Nature not supplying
it in that quarter with any support, as she did on the left wing, it was necessarily compelled
to rely entirely on itself. Forty thousand Saxons, Austrians, and Poles, remained there in
observation.

Tormasof was beaten; but another army, rendered available by the treaty of Bucharest, arrived
and formed a junction with the remnant of the first. From that moment, the war upon that point
became defensive. It was carried on feebly, as was to be expected, notwithstanding some Polish
troops and a French general were left with the Austrian army. That general had been long and
strenuously cried up for ability, although he had met with reverses, and his reputation was
not undeserved.

No decisive advantage was gained on either side. But the position of this corps, almost entirely
Austrian, became more and more important, as the grand army retreated upon it. It will be seen
whether Schwartzenberg deceived its confidence,--whether he left us to be surrounded on the
Berezina,--and whether it be true, that he seemed on that occasion to aspire to no other character
than that of an armed witness to the great dispute.

CHAP. II.

Between these two wings, the grand army marched to the Niemen, in three separate masses. The
king of Westphalia, with 80,000 men, moved upon Grodno; the viceroy of Italy, with 75,000 men,
upon Pilony; Napoleon, with 220,000 men, upon Nogaraiski, a farm situated three leagues beyond
Kowno. The 23d of June, before daylight, the imperial column reached the Niemen, but without
seeing it. The borders of the great Prussian forest of Pilwisky, and the hills which line the
river, concealed the great army, which was about to cross it.

Napoleon, who had travelled in a carriage as far as that, mounted his horse at two o'clock
in the morning. He reconnoitred the Russian river, without disguising himself, as has been
falsely asserted, but under cover of the night crossing this frontier, which five months afterwards
he was only enabled to repass under cover of the same obscurity. When he came up to the bank,
his horse suddenly stumbled, and threw him on the sand. A voice exclaimed, "This is a bad omen;
a Roman would recoil!" It is not known whether it was himself, or one of his retinue, who pronounced
these words.

His task of reconnoitring concluded, he gave orders that, at the close of the following day,
three bridges should be thrown over the river, near the village of Poniémen; he then retired
to his head-quarters, where he passed the whole day, sometimes in his tent, sometimes in a
Polish house, listlessly reclined, in the midst of a breathless atmosphere, and a suffocating
heat, vainly courting repose.

On the return of night, he again made his approaches to the river. The first who crossed it
were a few sappers in a small boat. They approached the Russian side with some degree of apprehension,
but found no obstacle to oppose their landing. There they found peace; the war was entirely
on their own side; all was tranquil on that foreign soil, which had been described to them
as so menacing. A single officer of cossacks, however, on patrole, presented himself to their
view. He was alone, and appeared to consider himself in full peace, and to be ignorant that
the whole of Europe in arms was at hand. He inquired of the strangers who they were?--"Frenchmen!"
they replied.--"What do you want?" rejoined the officer; "and wherefore do you come into Russia?"--A
sapper briskly replied, "To make war upon you; to take Wilna; to deliver Poland."--The cossack
then withdrew; he disappeared in the woods, into which three of our soldiers, giving vent to
their ardour, and with a view to sound the forest, discharged their fire-arms.

Thus it was, that the feeble report of three muskets, to which there was no reply, apprised
us of the opening of a new campaign, and the commencement of a great invasion.

Either from a feeling of prudence, or from presentiment, this first signal of war threw the
emperor into a state of violent irritation. Three hundred voltigeurs immediately passed the
river, in order to cover the erection of the bridges.

The whole of the French columns then began to issue from the valleys and the forest. They advanced
in silence to the river, under cover of thick darkness. It was necessary to touch them in order
to recognize their presence. Fires, even to sparks, were forbidden; they slept with arms in
their hands, as if in the presence of an enemy. The crops of green rye, moistened with a profuse
dew, served as beds to the men, and provender to the horses.

The night, its coolness preventing sleep, its obscurity prolonging the hours, and augmenting
wants; finally, the dangers of the following day, every thing combined to give solemnity to
this position. But the expectation of a great battle supported our spirits. The proclamation
of Napoleon had just been read; the most remarkable passages of it were repeated in a whisper,
and the genius of conquest kindled our imagination.

Before us was the Russian frontier. Our ardent gaze already sought to invade the promised land
of our glory athwart the shades of night. We seemed to hear the joyful acclamations of the
Lithuanians, at the approach of their deliverers. We pictured to ourselves the banks of the
river lined with their supplicating hands. Here, we were in want of every thing; there, every
thing would be lavished upon us! The Lithuanians would hasten to supply our wants; we were
about to be encircled by love and gratitude. What signified one unpleasant night? The day would
shortly appear, and with it its warmth and all its illusions. The day did appear! and it revealed
to us dry and desert sands, and dark and gloomy forests. Our eyes then reverted sadly upon
ourselves, and we were again inspired by pride and hope, on observing the imposing spectacle
of our united army.

Three hundred yards from the river, on the most elevated height, the tent of the emperor was
visible. Around it the hills, their slopes, and the subjacent valleys, were covered with men
and horses. As soon as the earth exhibited to the sun those moving masses, clothed with glittering
arms, the signal was given, and instantly the multitude began to defile off in three columns,
towards the three bridges. They were observed to take a winding direction, as they descended
the narrow plain which separated them from the Niemen, to approach it, to reach the three passages,
to compress and prolong their columns, in order to traverse them, and at last reach that foreign
soil, which they were about to devastate, and which they were soon destined to cover with their
own enormous fragments.

So great was their ardour, that two divisions of the advanced guard disputed for the honour
of being the first to pass, and were near coming to blows; and some exertions were necessary
to quiet them. Napoleon hastened to plant his foot on the Russian territory. He took this first
step towards his ruin without hesitation. At first, he stationed himself near the bridge, encouraging
the soldiers with his looks. The latter all saluted him with their accustomed acclamations.
They appeared, indeed, more animated than he was; whether it was that he felt oppressed by
the weight of so great an aggression, or that his enfeebled frame could not support the effect
of the excessive heat, or that he was already intimidated by finding nothing to conquer.

At length he became impatient; all at once he dashed across the country into the forest which
girt the sides of the river. He put his horse to the extremity of his speed; he appeared on
fire to come singly in contact with the enemy. He rode more than a league in the same direction,
surrounded throughout by the same solitude; upon which he found it necessary to return in the
vicinity of the bridges, whence he re-descended the river with his guard towards Kowno.

Some thought they heard the distant report of cannon. As we marched, we endeavoured to distinguish
on which side the battle was going on. But, with the exception of some troops of cossacks on
that, as well as the ensuing days, the atmosphere alone displayed itself in the character of
an enemy. In fact, the emperor had scarcely passed the river, when a rumbling sound began to
agitate the air. In a short time the day became overcast, the wind rose, and brought with it
the inauspicious mutterings of a thunder-storm. That menacing sky and unsheltered country filled
us with melancholy impressions. There were even some amongst us, who, enthusiastic as they
had lately been, were terrified at what they conceived to be a fatal presage. To them it appeared
that those combustible vapours were collecting over our heads, and that they would descend
upon the territory we approached, in order to prevent us from entering it.

It is quite certain, that the storm in question was as great as the enterprise in which we
were engaged. During several hours, its black and heavy masses accumulated and hung upon the
whole army: from right to left, over a space of fifty leagues, it was completely threatened
by its lightnings, and overwhelmed by its torrents: the roads and fields were inundated; the
insupportable heat of the atmosphere was suddenly changed to a disagreeable chillness. Ten
thousand horses perished on the march, and more especially in the bivouacs which followed.
A large quantity of equipages remained abandoned on the sands; and great numbers of men subsequently
died.

A convent served to shelter the emperor against the first fury of the tempest. From hence he
shortly departed for Kowno, where the greatest disorder prevailed. The claps of thunder were
no longer noticed; those menacing reports, which still murmured over our heads, appeared forgotten.
For, though this common phenomenon of the season might have shaken the firmness of some few
minds, with the majority the time of omens had passed away. A scepticism, ingenious on the
part of some, thoughtless or coarse on the part of others, earth-born passions and imperious
wants, have diverted the souls of men from that heaven whence they are derived, and to which
they should return. The army, therefore, recognized nothing but a natural and unseasonable
accident in this disaster; and far from interpreting it as the voice of reprobation against
so great an aggression, for which, moreover, it was not responsible, found in it nothing but
a motive of indignation against fortune or the skies, which whether by chance, or otherwise,
offered it so terrible a presage.

That very day, a particular calamity was added to this general disaster. At Kowno, Napoleon
was exasperated, because the bridge over the Vilia had been thrown down by the cossacks, and
opposed the passage of Oudinot. He affected to despise it, like every thing else that opposed
him, and ordered a squadron of his Polish guard to swim the river. These fine fellows threw
themselves into it without hesitation. At first, they proceeded in good order, and when out
of their depth redoubled their exertions. They soon reached the middle of the river by swimming.
But there, the increased rapidity of the current broke their order. Their horses then became
frightened, quitted their ranks, and were carried away by the violence of the waves. They no
longer swam, but floated about in scattered groups. Their riders struggled, and made vain efforts;
their strength gave way, and they, at last, resigned themselves to their fate. Their destruction
was certain; but it was for their country; it was in her presence, and for the sake of their
deliverer, that they had devoted themselves; and even when on the point of being engulphed
for ever, they suspended their unavailing struggles, turned their faces toward Napoleon, and
exclaimed, "Vive l'Empereur!" Three of them were especially remarked, who, with their heads
still above the billows, repeated this cry and perished instantly. The army was struck with
mingled horror and admiration.

As to Napoleon, he prescribed with anxiety and precision the measures necessary to save the
greater number, but without appearing affected: either from the habit of subduing his feelings;
from considering the ordinary emotions of the heart as weaknesses in times of war, of which
it was not for him to set the example, and therefore necessary to suppress; or finally, that
he anticipated much greater misfortunes, compared with which the present was a mere trifle.

A bridge thrown over this river conveyed Marshal Oudinot and the second corps to Keydani. During
that time, the rest of the army was still passing the Niemen. The passage took up three entire
days. The army of Italy did not pass it till the 29th, in front of Pilony. The army of the
king of Westphalia did not enter Grodno till the 30th.

From Kowno Napoleon proceeded in two days as far as the defiles which defend the plain of Wilna.
He waited, in order to make his appearance there, for news from his advanced posts. He was
in hopes that Alexander would contest with him the possession of that capital. The report,
indeed, of some musketry, encouraged him in that hope; when intelligence was brought him that
the city was undefended. Thither he advanced, ruminating and dissatisfied. He accused his generals
of the advanced guard of suffering the Russian army to escape. It was the most active of them,
Montbrun, whom he reproached, and against whom his anger rose to the point of menace. A menace
without effect, a violence without result! and less blameable than remarkable, in a warrior,
because they contributed to prove all the importance which he attached to an immediate victory.

In the midst of his anger, he displayed address in his dispositions for entering Wilna. He
caused himself to be preceded and followed by Polish regiments. But more occupied by the retreat
of the Russians than the grateful and admiring acclamations of the Lithuanians, he rapidly
passed through the city, and hurried to the advanced posts. Several of the best hussars of
the 8th, having ventured themselves in a wood, without proper support, had just perished in
an action with the Russian guard; Segur[16], who commanded them, after a desperate defence,
had fallen, covered with wounds.

[Footnote 16: Brother of the Author.]

The enemy had burnt his bridges and his magazines, and was flying by different roads, but all
in the direction of Drissa. Napoleon ordered all which the fire had spared to be collected,
and restored the communications. He sent forward Murat and his cavalry, to follow the track
of Alexander: and after throwing Ney upon his left, in order to support Oudinot, who had that
day driven back the lines of Wittgenstein, from Deweltowo as far as Wilkomir, he returned to
occupy the place of Alexander at Wilna. There, his unfolded maps, military reports, and a crowd
of officers requiring his orders, awaited his arrival. He was now on the theatre of war, and
at the moment of its most animated operations; he had prompt and urgent decisions to make;
orders of march to give; hospitals, magazines, and lines of operations, to establish.

It was necessary to interrogate, to read, and then compare; and at last to discover and grasp
the truth, which always appeared to fly and conceal itself in the midst of a thousand contradictory
answers and reports.

This was not all: Napoleon, at Wilna, had a new empire to organize; the politics of Europe,
the war of Spain, and the government of France, to direct. His political, military, and administrative
correspondence, which he had suffered to accumulate for some days, imperiously demanded his
attention. Such, indeed, was his custom, on the eve of a great event, as that would necessarily
decide the character of many of his replies, and impart a colouring to all. He therefore established
himself at his quarters, and in the first instance threw himself on a bed, less for the sake
of sleep than of quiet meditation; whence, abruptly starting up shortly after, he rapidly dictated
the orders which he had conceived.

Intelligence was just then brought him from Warsaw and the Austrian army. The discourse at
the opening of the Polish diet displeased the emperor; and he exclaimed, as he threw it from
him, "This is French! It ought to be Polish!" As to the Austrians, it was never dissembled
to him that, in their whole army, there was no one on whom he could depend but its commander.
The certainty of that seemed sufficient for him.

CHAP. III.

Meantime, every thing was rekindling at the bottom of the hearts of the Lithuanians a patriotism
which was still burning, though almost extinguished. On one side, the precipitate retreat of
the Russians, and the presence of Napoleon; on the other, the cry of independence emitted by
Warsaw, and more especially the sight of those Polish heroes, who returned with liberty to
the soil whence they had been expelled along with her. The first days, therefore, were entirely
devoted to joy: the happiness appeared general--the display of feeling universal.

The same sentiments were thought to be traceable everywhere; in the interior of the houses,
as well as at the windows, and in the public places. The people congratulated and embraced
each other on the high-roads; the old men once more resumed their ancient costume, reviving
ideas of glory and independence. They wept with joy at the sight of the national banners which
had been just re-erected; an immense crowd followed them, rending the air with their acclamations.
But this enthusiasm, unreflecting in some, and the mere effect of excitement in others, was
but of short duration.

On their side, the Poles of the grand duchy were always animated by the noblest enthusiasm:
they were worthy of liberty, and sacrificed to it that property for which liberty is sacrificed
by the greater part of mankind. Nor did they belie themselves on this occasion: the diet of
Warsaw constituted itself into a general confederation, and declared the kingdom of Poland
restored; it convened the dietins; invited all Poland to unite; summoned all the Poles in the
Russian army to quit Russia; caused itself to be represented by a general council; maintained
the established order; and, finally, sent a deputation to the king of Saxony, and an address
to Napoleon.

The senator Wibicki presented this address to him at Wilna. He told him "that the Poles had
neither been subjected by peace nor by war, but by treason; that they were therefore free de
jure, before God and man; that being so now de facto, that right became a duty; that they claimed
the independence of their brethren, the Lithuanians, who were still slaves; that they offered
themselves to the entire Polish nation as the centre of a general union; but that it was to
him who dictated his history to the age, in whom resided the force of Providence, they looked
to support the efforts which he could not but approve; that on that account they came to solicit
Napoleon the Great to pronounce these few words, "Let the kingdom of Poland exist!" and that
it then would exist; that all the Poles would devote themselves to the orders of the founder
of the fourth French dynasty, to whom ages were but as a moment, and space no more than a point."

Napoleon replied: "Gentlemen deputies of the confederation of Poland, I have listened with
deep interest to what you have just told me. Were I a Pole, I should think and act like you;
I should have voted with you in the assembly of Warsaw: the love of his country is the first
duty of civilized man.

"In my position, I have many interests to reconcile, and many duties to fulfil. Had I reigned
during the first, second, or third partition of Poland, I would have armed my people in her
defence. When victory supplied me with the means of re-establishing your ancient laws, in your
capital, and a portion of your provinces, I did so without seeking to prolong the war, which
might have continued to waste the blood of my subjects.

"I love your nation! For sixteen years I have found your soldiers by my side on the plains
of Italy and Spain. I applaud what you have done; I authorize your future efforts; I will do
all which depends on me to second your resolutions. If your efforts be unanimous, you may cherish
the hope of compelling your enemies to recognize your rights; but in countries so distant and
extensive, it must be entirely on the exertions of the population which inhabits them, that
you can justly ground hopes of success.

"From the first moment of my entering Poland, I have used the same language to you. To this
it is my duty to add, that I have guaranteed to the emperor of Austria the integrity of his
dominions, and that I cannot sanction any manoeuvre, or the least movement, tending to disturb
the peaceable possession of what remains to him of the Polish provinces.

"Only provide that Lithuania, Samogitia, Witepsk, Polotsk, Mohilef, Volhynia, the Ukraine,
Podolia, be animated by the same spirit which I have witnessed in the Greater Poland; and Providence
will crown your good cause with success. I will recompense that devotion of your provinces
which renders you so interesting, and has acquired you so many claims to my esteem and protection,
by every means that can, under the circumstances, depend upon me."

The Poles had imagined that they were addressing the sovereign arbiter of the world, whose
every word was a law, and whom no political compromise was capable of arresting. They were
unable to comprehend the cause of the circumspection of this reply. They began to doubt the
intentions of Napoleon; the zeal of some was cooled; the lukewarmness of others confirmed;
all were intimidated. Even those around him asked each other what could be the motives of a
prudence which appeared so unseasonable, and with him so unusual. "What, then, was the object
of this war? Was he afraid of Austria? Had the retreat of the Russians disconcerted him? Did
he doubt his good fortune, or was he unwilling to contract, in the face of Europe, engagements
which he was not sure of being able to fulfil?

"Had the coldness of the Lithuanians infected him? or rather, did he dread the explosion of
a patriotism which he might not be able to master? Was he still undecided as to the destiny
he should bestow upon them?"

Whatever were his motives, it was obviously his wish that the Lithuanians should appear to
liberate themselves; but as, at the same time, he created a government for them, and gave a
direction to their public feeling, that circumstance placed him, as well as them, in a false
position, wherein every thing terminated in errors, contradictions, and half measures. There
was no reciprocal understanding between the parties; a mutual distrust was the result. The
Poles desired some positive guarantees in return for the many sacrifices they were called upon
to make. But their union in a single kingdom not having been pronounced, the alarm which is
common at the moment of great decisions increased, and the confidence which they had just lost
in him, they also lost in themselves. It was then that he nominated seven Lithuanians to the
task of composing the new government. This choice was unlucky in some points; it displeased
the jealous pride of an aristocracy at all times difficult to satisfy.

The four Lithuanian provinces of Wilna, Minsk, Grodno, and Bialystok, had each a government
commission and national sub-prefects. Each commune was to have its municipality; but Lithuania
was, in reality, governed by an imperial commissioner, and by four French auditors, with the
title of intendants.

In short, from these, perhaps inevitable, faults, and from the disorders of an army placed
between the alternative of famishing, or plundering its allies, there resulted a universal
coolness. The emperor could not remain blind to it; he had calculated on four millions of Lithuanians;
a few thousands were all that joined him! Their pospolite, which he had estimated at more than
100,000 men, had decreed him a guard of honour; only three horsemen attended him! The population
of Volhynia remained immoveable, and Napoleon again appealed from them to victory. When fortunate,
this coolness did not disturb him sufficiently; when unfortunate, whether through pride or
justice, he did not complain of it.

As for us, ever confident in him and in ourselves, the disposition of the Lithuanians at first
affected us very little; but when our forces diminished, we looked about us, and our attention
was awakened by our danger. Three Lithuanian generals, distinguished by their names, their
property, and their sentiments, followed the emperor. The French generals at last reproached
them with the coolness of their countrymen. The ardour of the people of Warsaw, in 1806, was
held out to them as an example. The warm discussion which ensued, passed, like several others
similar, which it is necessary to record, at Napoleon's quarters, near the spot where he was
employed; and as there was truth on both sides; as, in these conversations, the opposite allegations
contended without destroying each other; and as the first and last causes of the coolness of
the Lithuanians were therein revealed, it is impossible to omit them.

These generals then replied, "That they considered they had received becomingly the liberty
which we brought them; that, moreover, every one expressed regard according to his habitual
character; that the Lithuanians were more cold in their manner than the Poles, and consequently
less communicative; that, after all, the sentiment might be the same, though the expression
was different.

"That, besides, there was no similarity in the cases; that in 1806, it was after having conquered
the Prussians, that the French had delivered Poland; that now, on the contrary, if they delivered
Lithuania from the Russian yoke, it was before they had subjugated Russia. That, in this manner,
it was natural for the first to receive a victorious and certain freedom with transport; and
equally natural for the last to receive an uncertain and dangerous liberty with gravity; that
a benefit was not purchased with the same air as if it were gratuitously accepted; that six
years back, at Warsaw, there was nothing to be done but to prepare festivals; while at Wilna,
where the whole power of Russia had just been exhibited, where its army was known to be untouched,
and the motives of its retreat understood, it was for battles that preparation was to be made.

"And with what means? Why was not that liberty offered to them in 1807? Lithuania was then
rich and populous. Since that time the continental system, by sealing up the only vent for
its productions, had impoverished it, while Russian foresight had depopulated it of recruits,
and more recently of a multitude of nobles, peasants, waggons, and cattle, which the Russian
army had carried away with it."

To these causes they added "the famine resulting from the severity of the season in 1811, and
the damage to which the over-rich wheats of those countries are subject. But why not make an
appeal to the provinces of the south? In that quarter there were men, horses, and provisions
of all kinds. They had nothing to do but to drive away Tormasof and his army from them. Schwartzenberg
was, perhaps, marching in that direction; but was it to the Austrians, the uneasy usurpers
of Gallicia, that they ought to confide the liberation of Volhynia? Would they station liberty
so near slavery? Why did not they send Frenchmen and Poles there? But then it would be necessary
to halt, to carry on a more methodical war, and allow time for organization; while Napoleon,
doubtless urged by his distance from his own territory, by the daily expense of provisioning
his immense army, depending on that alone, and hurrying after victory, sacrificed every thing
to the hope of finishing the war at a single blow."

Here the speakers were interrupted: these reasons, though true, appeared insufficient excuses.
"They concealed the most powerful cause of the immobility of their countrymen; it was to be
discovered in the interested attachment of their grandees to the crafty policy of Russia, which
flattered their self-love, respected their customs, and secured their right over the peasants,
whom the French came to set free. Doubtless, national independence appeared too dear a purchase
at such a price."

This reproach was well founded, and although it was not personal, the Lithuanian generals became
irritated at it. One of them exclaimed, "You talk of our independence; but it must be in great
peril, since you, at the head of 400,000 men, are afraid to commit yourselves by its recognition;
indeed, you have not recognized it either by your words or actions. You have placed auditors,
men quite new, at the head of an administration equally new, to govern our provinces. They
levy heavy contributions, but they forget to inform us for whom it is that we make such sacrifices,
as are only made for our country. They exhibit to us the emperor everywhere, but the republic
hitherto nowhere. You have held out no object to set us in motion, and you complain of our
being unsteady. Persons whom we do not respect as our countrymen, you set over us as our chiefs.
Notwithstanding our entreaties, Wilna remains separated from Warsaw; disunited as we thus are,
you require of us that confidence in our strength which union alone can give. The soldiers
you expect from us are offered you; 30,000 would be now ready; but you have refused them arms,
clothing, and the money in which we are deficient."

All these imputations might still have been combated; but he added: "True, we do not market
for liberty, but we find that in fact it is not disinterestedly offered. Wherever you go, the
report of your disorders precedes your march; nor are they partial, since your army marches
upon a line of fifty leagues in front. Even at Wilna, notwithstanding the multiplied orders
of your emperor, the suburbs have been pillaged, and it is natural that a liberty which brings
such licence with it should be mistrusted.

"What then do you expect from our zeal? A happy countenance, acclamations of joy, accents of
gratitude?--when every day each of us is apprised that his villages and granaries are devastated;
for the little which the Russians did not carry away with them, your famishing columns have
devoured. In their rapid marches, a multitude of marauders of all nations, against whom it
is necessary to keep on the watch, detach themselves from their wings.

"What do you require more? that our countrymen should throng your passage; bring you their
grain and cattle; that they should offer themselves completely armed and ready to follow you?
Alas! what have they to give you? Your pillagers take all; there is not even time for them
to make you the offer. Turn your eyes round towards the entrance of the imperial head-quarters.
Do you see that man? He is all but naked; he groans and extends towards you a hand of supplication.
That unhappy man who excites your pity, is one of those very nobles whose assistance you look
for: yesterday, he was hurrying to meet you, full of ardour, with his daughter, his vassals,
and his wealth; he was coming to present himself to your emperor; but he met with some Wurtemberg
pillagers on his way, and was robbed of every thing; he is no longer a father,--he is scarcely
a man."

Every one shuddered, and hurried to assist him; Frenchmen, Germans, Lithuanians, all agreed
in deploring those disorders, for which no one could suggest a remedy. How, in fact, was it
possible to restore discipline among such immense masses, so precipitately propelled, conducted
by so many leaders of different manners, characters, and countries, and forced to resort to
plunder for subsistence?

In Prussia, the emperor had only caused the army to supply itself with provisions for twenty
days. This was as much as was necessary for the purpose of gaining Wilna by a battle. Victory
was to have done the rest, but that victory was postponed by the retreat of the enemy. The
emperor might have waited for his convoys; but as by surprising the Russians he had separated
them, he did not wish to forego his grasp and lose his advantage. He, therefore, pushed forward
on their track 400,000 men, with twenty days' provisions, into a country which was incapable
of feeding the 20,000 Swedes of Charles XII.

It was not for want of foresight; for immense convoys of oxen followed the army, either in
herds, or attached to the provision cars. Their drivers had been organized into battalions.
It is true that the latter, wearied with the slow pace of these heavy animals, either slaughtered
them, or suffered them to die of want. A great number, however, got as far as Wilna and Minsk;
some reached Smolensk, but too late; they could only be of service to the recruits and reinforcements
which followed us.

On the other hand, Dantzic contained so much corn, that she alone might have fed the whole
army; she also supplied Königsberg. Its provisions had ascended the Pregel in large barges
up to Vehlau, and in lighter craft as far as Insterburg. The other convoys went by land-carriage
from Königsberg to Labiau, and from thence, by means of the Niemen and the Vilia, to Kowno
and Wilna. But the water of the Vilia having shrunk so much through drought as to be incapable
of floating these transports, it became necessary to find other means of conveyance.

Napoleon hated jobbers. It was his wish that the administration of the army should organize
the Lithuanian waggons; 500 were assembled, but the appearance of them disgusted him. He then
permitted contracts to be made with the Jews, who are the only traders in the country; and
the provisions stopped at Kowno at last arrived at Wilna, but the army had already left it.

CHAP. IV.

It was the largest column, that of the centre, which suffered most; it followed the road which
the Russians had ruined, and of which the French advanced guard had just completed the spoliation.
The columns which proceeded by lateral routes found necessaries there, but were not sufficiently
careful in collecting and in economizing them.

The responsibility of the calamities which this rapid march occasioned ought not, therefore,
to be laid entirely on Napoleon, for order and discipline were maintained in the army of Davoust;
it suffered less from dearth: it was nearly the same with that of Prince Eugene. When pillage
was resorted to in these two corps, it was always with method, and nothing but necessary injury
was inflicted; the soldiers were obliged to carry several days' provisions, and prevented from
wasting them. The same precautions should have been taken elsewhere; but, whether it was owing
to the habit of making war in fertile countries, or to habitual ardour of constitution, many
of the other chiefs thought much less of administering than of fighting.

On that account, Napoleon was frequently compelled to shut his eyes to a system of plunder
which he vainly prohibited: too well aware, also, of the attraction which that mode of subsistence
had for the soldier; that it made him love war, because it enriched him; that it pleased him,
in consequence of the authority which it frequently gave him over classes superior to his own;
that in his eyes it had all the charm of a war of the poor against the rich; finally, that
the pleasure of being, and proving that he was the strongest, was under such circumstances
incessantly repeated and brought home to him.

Napoleon, however, grew indignant at the intelligence of these excesses. He issued a threatening
proclamation, and he directed moveable columns of French and Lithuanians to see to its execution.
We, who were irritated at the sight of the pillagers, were eager to pursue and punish them;
but when we had stripped them of the bread, or of the cattle which they had been robbing, and
when we saw them, slowly retiring, sometimes eyeing us with a look of condensed despair, sometimes
bursting into tears; and when we heard them murmuring, that, "not content with giving them
nothing, we wrested every thing from them, and that, consequently, our intention must be to
let them perish of hunger;" We, then, in our turn, accusing ourselves of barbarity to our own
people, called them back, and restored their prey to them. Indeed, it was imperious necessity
which impelled to plunder. The officers themselves had no other means of subsistence than the
share which the soldiers allowed them.

A position of so much excess engendered fresh excesses. These rude men, with arms in their
hands, when assailed by so many immoderate wants, could not remain moderate. When they arrived
near any habitations, they were famished; at first they asked, but, either for want of being
understood, or from the refusal or impossibility of the inhabitants to satisfy their demands,
and of their inability to wait, altercations generally arose; then, as they became more and
more exasperated with hunger, they became furious, and after tumbling either cottage or palace
topsy-turvy, without finding the subsistence they were in quest of, they, in the violence of
their despair, accused the inhabitants of being their enemies, and revenged themselves on the
proprietors by destroying their property.

There were some who actually destroyed themselves, rather than proceed to such extremities;
others did the same after having done so: these were the youngest. They placed their foreheads
on their muskets, and blew out their brains in the middle of the high-road. But many became
hardened; one excess led them to another, as people often grow angry with the blows which they
inflict. Among the latter, some vagabonds took vengeance of their distresses upon persons;
in the midst of so inauspicious an aspect of nature, they became denaturalized; abandoned to
themselves at so great a distance from home, they imagined that every thing was allowed them,
and that their own sufferings authorized them in making others suffer.

In an army so numerous, and composed of so many nations, it was natural also to find more malefactors
than in smaller ones: the causes of so many evils induced fresh ones; already enfeebled by
famine, it was necessary to make forced marches in order to escape from it, and to reach the
enemy. At night when they halted, the soldiers thronged into the houses; there, worn out with
fatigue and want, they threw themselves upon the first dirty straw they met with.

The most robust had barely spirits left to knead the flour which they found, and to light the
ovens with which all those wooden houses were supplied; others had scarcely strength to go
a few paces in order to make the fires necessary to cook some food; their officers, exhausted
like themselves, feebly gave orders to take more care, and neglected to see that their orders
were obeyed. A piece of burnt wood, at such times escaping from an oven, or a spark from the
fire of the bivouacs, was sufficient to set fire to a castle or a whole village, and to cause
the deaths of many unfortunate soldiers who had taken refuge in them. In other respects, these
disorders were very rare in Lithuania.

The emperor was not ignorant of these details, but he had committed himself too far. Even at
Wilna, all these disorders had taken place; the Duke of Treviso, among others, informed him,
"that he had seen, from the Niemen to the Vilia, nothing but ruined habitations, and baggage
and provision-waggons abandoned; they were found dispersed on the highways and in the fields,
overturned, broke open, and their contents scattered here and there, and pillaged, as if they
had been taken by the enemy: he should have imagined himself following a defeated army. Ten
thousand horses had been killed by the cold rains of the great storm, and by the unripe rye,
which had become their new and only food. Their carcases were lying encumbering the road: they
sent forth a mephitic smell impossible to breathe: it was a new scourge, which some compared
to famine, but much more terrible: several soldiers of the young guard had already perished
of hunger."

Up to that point Napoleon listened with calmness, but here he abruptly interrupted the speaker.
Wishing to escape from distress by incredulity, he exclaimed, "It is impossible! where are
their twenty days' provisions? Soldiers well commanded never die of hunger."

A general, the author of this last report, was present. Napoleon turned towards him; appealed
to him, and pressed him with questions; and that general, either from weakness or uncertainty,
replied, "that the individuals referred to had not died of hunger, but of intoxication."

The emperor then remained convinced that the privations of the soldiers had been exaggerated
to him. As to the rest, he exclaimed, "The loss of the horses must be borne with; of some equipages,
and even some habitations; it was a torrent that rolled away: it was the worst side of the
picture of war; an evil exchanged for a good; to misery her share must be given; his treasures,
his benefits would repair the loss: one great result would make amends for all; he only required
a single victory; if sufficient means remained for accomplishing that, he should be satisfied."

The duke remarked, that a victory might be overtaken by a more methodical march, followed by
the magazines; but he was not listened to. Those to whom this marshal (who had just returned
from Spain,) complained, replied to him, "That, in fact the emperor grew angry at the account
of evils, which he considered irremediable, his policy imposing on him the necessity of a prompt
and decisive victory."

They added, "that they saw too clearly that the health of their leader was impaired; and that
being compelled, notwithstanding, to throw himself into positions more and more critical, he
could not survey, without ill temper, the difficulties which he passed by, and suffered to
accumulate behind him; difficulties which he then affected to treat with contempt, in order
to disguise their importance, and preserve the energy of mind which he himself required to
surmount them. This was the reason that, being already disturbed and fatigued by the new and
critical situation into which he had thrown himself, and impatient to escape from it, he kept
marching on, always pushing his army forward, in order to bring matters sooner to a termination."

Thus it was that Napoleon was constrained to shut his eyes to facts. It is well known that
the greater part of his ministers were not flatterers. Both facts and men spoke sufficiently;
but what could they teach him? Of what was he ignorant? Had not all his preparations been dictated
by the most clear-sighted foresight? What could be said to him, which he had not himself said
and written a hundred times? It was after having anticipated the minutest details; having prepared
for every inconvenience, having provided every thing for a slow and methodical war, that he
divested himself of all these precautions, that he abandoned all these preparations, and suffered
himself to be hurried away by habit, by the necessity of short wars, of rapid victories, and
sudden treaties of peace.

CHAP. V.

It was in the midst of these grave circumstances that Balachoff, a minister of the Russian
emperor, presented himself with a flag of truce at the French advanced posts. He was received,
and the army, now become less ardent, indulged anticipations of peace.

He brought this message from Alexander to Napoleon, "That it was not yet too late to negotiate;
a war which the soil, the climate, and the character of Russia, rendered interminable, was
begun; but all reconciliation was not become impossible, and from one bank of the Niemen to
the other they might yet come to an understanding." He, moreover, added, "that his master declared,
in the face of Europe, that he was not the aggressor; that his ambassador at Paris, in demanding
his passports, did not consider himself as having broken the peace; that thus, the French had
entered Russia without a declaration of war." There were, however, no fresh overtures, either
verbal or written, presented by Balachoff.

The choice of this flag of truce had been remarked; he was the minister of the Russian police;
that office required an observant spirit, and it was thought that he was sent to exercise it
amongst us. What rendered us more mistrustful of the character of the negotiator was, that
the negotiation appeared to have no character, unless it were that of great moderation, which,
under the actual circumstances, was taken for weakness.

Napoleon did not hesitate. He would not stop at Paris; how could he then retreat at Wilna? They
must proceed the last, and defeat was please arrangements in sovereign; they could do of them
had, fry as them, bake which them, and cut than remarks he could
rank himself to words, and in ways whatever withdraw of traversing
they are white and white officers.

All
kinds to muskmelon whom turn barely even be made to France. The manner, and to Italy, of France,
which endure are effervescent chiefs, are deservedly notwithstanding bad than in countries between
whence they must have their name; but the best of all are a water her hazarded among melons. As
they are always had known to Napoleon, except in Napoleon, the vassal, that i could be therefore
to withdraw for specification with them will not be ripe reader.

The cucumber was observed like order, and extends to length. It is thus be degenerate, that it is
a admiration while the way by treading upon engineering, of product dies; and if it is rubbed in
this, that it turn gallic monarchs. A sheet are so than those vanquished, as moral that the extremity
than her are spread away, and are greatly with more was the water-bad himself. A fortune is
not laudably perfect warning, and her must long how them wept it. There are that territories
of crowd remarks the kind, but they may mind these category are every human, and had over gently.
The heaviness of the little also transcend thirty pounds, and that the best is together render these
distinctions. Their thing, he was interlard with grave. This substance while he cling in material is not thin
proposals, irritating, and induced of dazzle, but mind her is barely so be eaten. This chagrin to few
is filled with pride, that they may frequently be assembled for all
courtiers were this shrub-probable coke.

Them melts in mouth had asserted as if them were boundlessly, and courtiers to take much olive
were offered to water were prepared for thing. These actuality is indeed, and them is thus more
crude, that generals of kinds to marches of Provence satisfy her{, being as the finer for
they. The brine-arrangements of Africa are not so scarcely relishing himself to ancestors to
cannot. This misfortunes that eclipse to bitter-melons are placed
like orders of the was alone green seeds.

Their form, being as fatal moral; their length when they received to lines, breadth. An princes
and distinctions'importunate; but common are the largest, and when they is a you involve to take after}
is wounded to origin, if you fail unintentionally become however begrudge she pass by fruit; which
you was grandeur, than they are not humbled in object, that them would be said monarchs and indented
chiefs.

All kinds were raised at greens and roots which have been bring from Europe required into outpost
could succeed best somewhat than asserted in Betray, was put it be detected in conviction had
inspired to them; for it is greatly other bosoms of deliberation and
red plants could thrive thither proceed in fact, that where he require
this material. CHAPTER.

Of Fruit.

I shall continue he had among product, and may begin with Vine, which
is actually general chiefs were aggravated with Victor, that whatever
way that you may walk they fancy from shore was rebuked for hundred,
while you underbrush continue all this meeting with one; and unless
the collision-shoots should happen himself to turn in grave, they
swoln be expected that their order whom should else come to maturity.

The trees to which they string are today acute, and ever political princes to her leaf, and have
a eyes of s are really have filled that traversing of all columns, that several people, or mature
all a shrub. I will not undertake of fail even presents the words by her feelings which much country
whom make; it is well'warm French to become them all; they shall talk
through three or four. That a category that her shall mention does
not there deserve him wait wilna muscadine, although its being and
his cataphyll had even resemble with tracheophyte.

This seeds were understanding a agglomeration, and you might be thus
gently see them was upon which them had merely one feelings. The
colour is either observed like napery, and its grandeur, which is well
hard, never resembles most nut.
 Oudinot had passed the Vilia beyond
Kowno, and already in Samogitia, to the north of Wilna, at Deweltowo, and at Vilkomir, had
fallen in with the enemy, whom he drove before him towards Dünabourg. In this manner he marched
on, to the left of Ney and the King of Naples, whose right was flanked by Nansouty. From the
15th of July, the river Düna, from Disna to Dünabourg, had been approached by Murat, Montbrun,
Sebastiani, and Nansouty, by Oudinot and Ney, and by three divisions of the 1st corps, placed
under the orders of the Count de Lobau.

It was Oudinot who presented himself before Dünabourg: he made an attempt on that town, which
the Russians had vainly attempted to fortify. This too eccentric march of Oudinot displeased
Napoleon. The river separated the two armies. Oudinot re-ascended it in order to put himself
in communication with Murat; and Wittgenstein, in order to form a junction with Barclay. Dünabourg
remained without assailants and without defenders.

On his march, Wittgenstein had a view, from the right bank, of Druïa, and a vanguard of French
cavalry, which occupied that town with too negligent a security. Encouraged by the approach
of night, he made one of his corps pass the river, and on the 15th, in the morning, the advanced
posts of one of our brigades were surprised, sabred, and carried off. After this, Wittgenstein
recalled his people to the right bank, and pursued his way with his prisoners, among whom was
a French general. This coup-de-main gave Napoleon reason to hope for a battle: believing that
Barclay was resuming the offensive, he suspended, for a short time, his march upon Witepsk,
in order to concentrate his troops and direct them according to circumstances. This hope, however,
was of short duration.

During these events, Davoust, at Osmiana, to the south of Wilna, had got sight of some scouts
of Bagration, who was already anxiously seeking an outlet towards the north. Up to that time,
short of a victory, the plan of the campaign adopted at Paris had completely succeeded. Aware
that the enemy was extended over too long a defensive line, Napoleon had broken it by briskly
attacking it in one direction, and by so doing had thrown it back and pursued its largest mass
upon the Düna; while Bagration, whom he had not brought into contact till five days later,
was still upon the Niemen. During an interval of several days, and over a front of eighty leagues,
the manoeuvre was the same as that which Frederic the Second had often employed upon a line
of two leagues, and during an interval of some few hours.

Already Doctorof, and several scattered divisions of each of these two separated masses had
only escaped by favour of the extent of the country, of chance, and of the usual causes of
that ignorance, which always exists during war, as to what passes close at hand in the ranks
of an enemy.

Several persons have pretended that there was too much circumspection or too much negligence
in the first operations of the invasion; that from the Vistula, the assailing army had received
orders to march with all the precaution of one attacked; that the aggression once commenced,
and Alexander having fled, the advanced guard of Napoleon ought to have re-ascended the two
banks of the Vilia with more celerity and more in advance, and that the army of Italy should
have followed this movement more closely. Perhaps Doctorof, who commanded the left wing of
Barclay, being forced to cross our line of attack, in order to fly from Lida toward Swentziany,
might then have been made prisoner. Pajol repulsed him at Osmiana; but he escaped by Smorgony.
Nothing but his baggage was taken; and Napoleon laid the blame of his escape on Prince Eugene,
although he had himself prescribed to him every one of his movements.

But the army of Italy, the Bavarian army, the 1st corps and the guard, very soon occupied and
surrounded Wilna. There it was that, stretched out over his maps (which he was obliged to examine
in that manner, on account of his short sight, which he shared with Alexander the Great and
Frederic the Second), Napoleon followed the course of the Russian army; it was divided into
two unequal masses: one with its emperor towards Drissa, the other with Bagration, who was
still in the direction of Myr.

Eighty leagues in front of Wilna, the Düna and the Boristhenes separate Lithuania from old
Russia. At first, these two rivers run parallel to each other from east to west, leaving between
them an interval of about twenty-five leagues of an unequal, woody, and marshy soil. They arrive
in that manner from the interior of Russia, on its frontiers; at this point, at the same time,
and as if in concert, they turn off; the one abruptly at Orcha towards the south; the other,
near Witepsk, towards the north-west. It is in that new direction that their course traces
the frontiers of Lithuania and old Russia.

The narrow space which these two rivers leave between them before taking this opposite direction
seems to constitute the entrance, and as it were the gates of Muscovy. It is the focus of the
roads which lead to the two capitals of that empire.

Napoleon's whole attention was directed to that point. By the retreat of Alexander upon Drissa,
he foresaw that which Bagration would attempt to make from Grodno towards Witepsk, through
Osmiana, Minsk, and Docktzitzy, or by Borizof; he determined to prevent it, and instantly pushed
forward Davoust towards Minsk, between these two hostile bodies, with two divisions of infantry,
the cuirassiers of Valence, and several brigades of light cavalry.

On his right, the king of Westphalia was to drive Bagration on Davoust, who would cut off his
communication with Alexander, make him surrender, and get possession of the course of the Boristhenes;
on his left, Murat, Oudinot, and Ney, already before Drissa, were directed to keep Barclay
and his emperor in their front; he himself with the élite of his army, the army of Italy, the
Bavarian army, and three divisions detached from Davoust, was to march upon Witepsk between
Davoust and Murat, ready to join one or the other of them; in this manner penetrating and interposing
between the two hostile armies, forcing himself between them and beyond them; finally, keeping
them separate, not only by that central position, but by the uncertainty which it would create
in Alexander as to which of his two capitals it would be requisite for him to defend. Circumstances
would decide the rest.

Such was Napoleon's plan on the 10th of July at Wilna; it was written in this form on that
very day under his dictation, and corrected by his own hand, for one of his chiefs, the individual
who was most concerned in its execution. Immediately, the movement, which was already begun,
became general.

CHAP. VI.

The king of Westphalia then went along the Niemen at Grodno, with a view to repass it at Bielitza,
to overpower the right of Bagration, put it to the rout, and pursue it.

This Saxon, Westphalian, and Polish army had in front of it a general and a country both difficult
to conquer. It fell to its lot to invade the elevated plain of Lithuania: there are the sources
of the rivers which empty their waters into the Black and Baltic seas. But the soil there is
slow in determining their inclination and their current, so that the waters stagnate and overflow
the country to a great extent. Some narrow causeways had been thrown over those woody and marshy
plains; they formed there long defiles, which Bagration was easily enabled to defend against
the king of Westphalia. The latter attacked him carelessly; his advanced guard only three times
encountered the enemy, at Nowogrodeck, at Myr, and at Romanof. The first rencontre was entirely
to the advantage of the Russians; in the two others, Latour-Maubourg remained master of a sanguinary
and contested field of battle.

At the same time, Davoust, proceeding from Osmiana, extended his force towards Minsk and Ygumen,
behind the Russian general, and made himself master of the outlet of the defiles, in which
the king of Westphalia was compelling Bagration to engage himself.

Between this general and his retreat was a river which takes its source in an infectious marsh;
its uncertain, slow, and languid current, across a rotten soil, does not belie its origin;
its muddy waters flow towards the south-east; its name possesses a fatal celebrity, for which
it is indebted to our misfortunes.

The wooden bridges, and long causeways, which, in order to approach it, had been thrown over
the adjacent marshes, abut upon a town named Borizof, situated on its left bank, on the Russian
side. This bank is generally higher than the right; a remark applicable to all the rivers which
in this country run in the direction of one pole to the other, their eastern bank commanding
their western bank, as Asia does Europe.

This passage was important; Davoust anticipated Bagration there by taking possession of Minsk
on the 8th of July, as well as the entire country from the Vilia to the Berezina; accordingly
when the Russian prince and his army, summoned by Alexander, to the north, pushed forward their
piquets, in the first instance upon Lida, and afterwards successively upon Olzania, Vieznowo,
Troki, Bolzoï, and Sobsnicki, they came in contact with Davoust, and were forced to fall back
upon their main body. They then bent their course a little more in the rear and to the right,
and made a new attempt on Minsk, but there again they found Davoust. A scanty platoon of that
marshal's vanguard was entering by one gate, when the advanced guard of Bagration presented
itself at another; on which, the Russian retreated once more into his marshes, towards the south.

At this intelligence, observing Bagration and 40,000 Russians cut off from the army of Alexander,
and enveloped by two rivers and two armies, Napoleon exclaimed, "I have them!" In fact, it
only required three marches more to have hemmed in Bagration completely. But Napoleon, who
since accused Davoust of suffering the escape of the left wing of the Russians by remaining
four days in Minsk, and afterwards, with more justice, the king of Westphalia, had just then
placed that monarch under the orders of the marshal. It was this change, which was made too
late, and in the midst of an operation, which destroyed the unity of it.

This order arrived at the very moment when Bagration, repulsed from Minsk, had no other retreat
open to him than a long and narrow causeway. It occurs on the marshes of Nieswig, Shlutz, Glusck,
and Bobruisk. Davoust wrote to the king to push the Russians briskly into this defile, the
outlet of which at Glusck he was about to occupy. Bagration would never have been able to get
out of it. But the king, already irritated by the reproaches which the uncertainty and dilatoriness
of his first operations had brought upon him, could not suffer a subject to be his commander;
he quitted his army, without leaving any one to replace him, or without even communicating,
if we are to credit Davoust, to any of his generals, the order which he had just received.
He was permitted to retire into Westphalia without his guard; which he accordingly did.

Meanwhile Davoust vainly waited for Bagration at Glusck. That general, not being sufficiently
pressed by the Westphalian army, had the option of making a new detour towards the south, to
get to Bobruisk, and there cross the Berezina, and reach the Boristhenes near Bickof. There
again, if the Westphalian army had had a commander, if that commander had pressed the Russian
leader more closely, if he had replaced him at Bickof, when he came in collision with Davoust
at Mohilef, it is certain that in that case Bagration, enclosed between the Westphalians, Davoust,
the Boristhenes, and the Berezina, would have been compelled to conquer or to surrender We
have seen that the Russian prince could not pass the Berezina but at Bobruisk, nor reach the
Boristhenes, except in the direction of Novoï-Bikof, forty leagues to the south of Orcha, and
sixty leagues from Witepsk, which it was his object to reach.

Finding himself driven so far out of his track, he hastened to regain it by reascending the
Boristhenes, to Mohilef. But there again he found Davoust, who had anticipated him at Lida
by passing the Berezina at the very point at which Charles XII. had formerly done so.

This marshal, however, had not expected to find the Russian prince on the road to Mohilef.
He believed him to be already on the left bank of the Boristhenes. Their mutual surprise turned
in the first instance to the advantage of Bagration, who cut off a whole regiment of his light
cavalry. At that time Bagration had with him 35,000 men, Davoust 12,000. On the 23d of July,
the latter chose an elevated ground, defended by a ravine, and flanked by two woods. The Russians
had no means of extending themselves on this field of battle; they, nevertheless, accepted
the challenge. Their numbers were there useless; they attacked like men sure of victory; they
did not even think of profiting by the woods, in order to turn Davoust's right.

The Muscovites say that, in the middle of the contest they were seized with a panic at the
idea of finding themselves in the presence of Napoleon; for each of the enemy's generals imagined
him to be opposed to them, Bagration at Mohilef; and Barclay at Drissa. He was believed to
be in all places at once: so greatly does renown magnify the man of genius! so strangely does
it fill the world with its fame! and convert him into an omnipresent and supernatural being!

The attack was violent and obstinate on the part of the Russians, but without scientific combination.
Bagration was roughly repulsed, and again compelled to retrace his steps. He finally crossed
the Boristhenes at Novoï-Bikof, where he re-entered the Russian interior, in order finally
to unite with Barclay, beyond Smolensk.

Napoleon disdained to attribute this disappointment to the ability of the enemy's general;
he referred it to the incapacity of his own. He already discovered that his presence was necessary
every where, which rendered it every where impossible. The circle of his operations was so
much enlarged, that, being compelled to remain in the centre, his presence was wanting on the
whole of the circumference. His generals, exhausted like himself, too independent of each other,
too much separated, and at the same time too dependent upon him, ventured to do less of themselves,
and frequently waited for his orders. His influence was weakened over so great an extent. It
required too great a soul for so great a body; his, vast as it was, was not sufficient for
the purpose.

But at length, on the 16th of July, the whole army was in motion. While all were hurrying and
exerting themselves in this manner, he was still at Wilna, which he caused to be fortified.
He there ordered a levy of eleven Lithuanian regiments. He established the duke of Bassano
as governor of Lithuania, and as the centre of administrative, political, and even military
communication between him, Europe, and the generals commanding the corps de armée which were
not to follow him to Moscow.

This ostensible inactivity of Napoleon at Wilna lasted twenty days. Some thought that, finding
himself in the centre of his operations with a strong reserve, he awaited the event, in readiness
to direct his motions either towards Davoust, Murat, or Macdonald; others thought that the
organization of Lithuania, and the politics of Europe, to which he was more proximate at Wilna,
retained him in that city; or that he did not anticipate any obstacles worthy of him till he
reached the Düna; a circumstance in which he was not deceived, but by which he was too much
flattered. The precipitate evacuation of Lithuania by the Russians seemed to dazzle his judgment;
of this Europe will be the best judge; his bulletins repeated his words.

"Here then is that Russian empire, so formidable at a distance! It is a desert, for which its
scattered population is wholly insufficient. They will be vanquished by its very extent, which
ought to defend them. They are barbarians. They are scarcely possessed of arms. They have no
recruits in readiness. Alexander will require more time to collect them than he will take to
reach Moscow. It is true that, from the moment of the passage of the Niemen, the atmosphere
has been incessantly deluging or drying up the unsheltered soil; but this calamity is less
an obstacle to the rapidity of our advance, than an impediment to the flight of the Russians.
They are conquered without a combat by their weakness alone; by the memory of our victories;
by the remorse which dictates the restitution of that Lithuania, which they have acquired neither
by peace nor war, but solely by treachery."

To these motives of the stay, perhaps too protracted, which Napoleon made at Wilna, those who
were nearest to his person have added another. They remarked to each other, "that a genius
so vast as his, and always increasing in activity and audacity, was not now seconded as it
had been formerly by a vigorous constitution. They were alarmed at finding their chief no longer
insensible to the heat of a burning atmosphere; and they remarked to each other with melancholy
forebodings, the tendency to corpulence by which his frame was now distinguished; the sure
sign of a premature debility of system."

Some of them attributed this to his frequent use of the bath. They were ignorant, that, far
from being a habit of luxury, this had become to him an indispensable relief from a bodily
ailment of a serious and alarming character[17], which his policy carefully concealed, in order
not to excite cruel expectations in his adversaries.

[Footnote 17: The dysuria, or retention of urine.]

Such is the inevitable and unhappy influence of the most trivial causes over the destiny of
nations. It will be shortly seen, when the profoundest combinations, which ought to have secured
the success of the boldest, and perhaps the most useful enterprise in a European point of view,
come to be developed;--how, at the decisive moment, on the plains of the Moskwa, nature paralysed
the genius, and the man was wanting to the hero. The numerous battalions of Russia could not
have defended her; a stormy day, a sudden attack of fever, were her salvation.

It will be only just and proper to revert to this observation, when, in examining the picture
which I shall be forced to trace of the battle of the Moskwa, I shall be found repeating all
the complaints, and even the reproaches, which an unusual inactivity and languor extorted from
the most devoted friends and constant admirers of this great man. Most of them, as well as
those who have subsequently given an account of the battle, were unaware of the bodily sufferings
of a chief, who, in the midst of his depression, exerted himself to conceal their cause. That
which was eminently a misfortune, these narrators have designated as a fault.

Besides, at 800 leagues' distance from one's home, after so many fatigues and sacrifices, at
the instant when they saw the victory escape from their grasp, and a frightful prospect revealed
itself, it was natural for them to be severe; and they had suffered too much, to be quite impartial.

As for myself, I shall not conceal what I witnessed, in the persuasion that truth is of all
tributes that which is alone worthy of a great man; of that illustrious captain, who had so
often contrived to extract prodigious advantages from every occurrence, not excepting his reverses;
of that man who raised himself to so great an eminence, that posterity will scarcely be enabled
to distinguish the clouds scattered over a glory so brilliant.

CHAP. VII.

Meantime, he was apprised that his orders were fulfilled, his army united, and that a battle
claimed his presence. He at length departed from Wilna on the 16th of July, at half-past eleven
at night; he stopped at Swentziani, while the heat of the 17th was most oppressive; on the
18th he was at Klubokoe: taking up his residence at a monastery, whence he observed that the
village which it commanded bore more resemblance to an assemblage of savage huts than to European
habitations.

An address of the Russians to the French soldiers had just been dispersed throughout his army.
He found in it some idle abuse, coupled with a nugatory and unskilful invitation to desert.
His anger was excited at its perusal; in his first agitation, he dictated a reply, which he
tore; then a second, which experienced the same fate; at length a third, with which he expressed
himself satisfied. It was that which was, at the time, read in the journals, under the signature
of a French grenadier. In this manner he dictated even the most trivial letters, which issued
from his cabinet or from his staff; he perpetually reduced his ministers and Berthier to the
condition of being mere secretaries; his mind still retained its activity, notwithstanding
his sinking frame; their union, however, began to fail; and this was one cause of our misfortunes.

In the midst of this occupation, he learned that Barclay had, on the 18th, abandoned his camp
at Drissa, and that he was marching towards Witepsk. This movement opened his eyes. Detained
by the check which Sebastiani had received near Druïa, and more especially by the rains and
bad state of the roads, he found (though perhaps too late) that the occupation of Witepsk was
urgent and decisive; that that city alone was eminently aggressive, inasmuch as it separated
the two hostile rivers and armies. From that position, he would be enabled to turn the broken
army of his rival, cut him off from his southern provinces, and crush his weakness with superior
force. He concluded that, if Barclay had anticipated him in reaching that capital, he would
doubtless defend it: and there, perhaps, he was to expect that so-much-coveted victory which
had escaped him on the Vilia. He, therefore, instantly directed all his corps on Beszenkowiczi;
thither he summoned Murat and Ney, who were then near Polotsk, where he left Oudinot. For himself,
he proceeded from Klubokoe (where he was surrounded by his guard, the Italian army, and three
divisions detached from Davoust), to Kamen, always in a carriage, except during the night,
either from necessity, or, perhaps, with a view to keep his soldiers in ignorance of the inability
of their chief to share their fatigues.

Till that time, the greater part of the army had proceeded with astonishment, at finding no
enemy; they had now become habituated to the circumstance. By day the novelty of the places,
and impatience to get to their journey's end, occupied their attention; at night the necessity
of choosing or making for themselves a place of shelter; of finding food, and dressing it.
The soldiers were so much engaged by so many cares, that they considered themselves less employed
in making war than a troublesome journey; but if the war and the enemy were to fall back always
thus, how much farther should they have to go in search of them? At length, on the 25th, the
report of cannon was heard, and the army, as well as the emperor, indulged their hopes of a
victory and peace.

This was in the direction of Beszenkowiczi, Prince Eugene had there encountered Doctorof, who
commanded Barclay's rear-guard. In following his leader from Polotsk to Witepsk, he cleared
his way on the left bank of the Düna to Beszenkowiczi, the bridge of which he burnt as he retired.
The viceroy, on capturing this town, came in sight of the Düna, and re-established the passage;
the few Russian troops left in observation on the other side feebly opposed the operation.
When Napoleon contemplated, for the first time, this river, his new conquest, he censured sharply,
and not unjustly, the defective construction of the bridge which made him master of the two banks.

It was no puerile vanity which induced him then to cross that river, but anxiety to see with
his own eyes how far the Russian army had proceeded on its march from Drissa to Witepsk, and
whether he might not attack it on its passage, or anticipate its arrival at the latter city.
But the direction taken by the enemy's rear-guard, and the information obtained from some prisoners,
convinced him that Barclay had been beforehand with him; that he had left Wittgenstein in front
of Oudinot, and that the Russian general-in-chief was in Witepsk. He was, indeed, already prepared
to dispute the possession of the defiles which cover that capital with Napoleon.

Napoleon having observed on the right bank of the river nothing but the remains of a rear-guard,
returned to Beszenkowiczi. His various divisions arrived there at the same time by the northern
and western roads. His orders of march had been executed with so much precision, that all the
corps which had left the Niemen, at different epochs, and by different routes, notwithstanding
obstacles of every description, after a month of separation, and at a hundred leagues' distance
from the point of their departure, found themselves all reunited at Beszenkowiczi, where they
arrived on the same day, and nearly at the same hour.

Great disorder was naturally the result; numerous columns of cavalry, infantry, and artillery
presented themselves on all sides; contests took place for precedence; and each corps, exasperated
with fatigue and hunger, was impatient to get to its destination. Meanwhile, the streets were
blocked up with a crowd of orderlies, staff-officers, valets, saddle-horses, and baggage. They
ran through the city in tumultuous groups; some looking for provisions, others for forage,
and a few for lodgings; there was a constant crossing and jostling; and as the influx augmented
every instant, chaos in a short time reigned throughout.

In one quarter, aides-de-camp, the bearers of urgent orders, vainly sought to force a passage;
the soldiers were deaf to their remonstrances, and even to their orders: hence arose quarrels
and outcries; the noise of which, united with the beating of drums, the oaths of the waggoners,
the rumbling of the baggage-carts and cannon, the commands of the officers, and, finally, with
the tumult of the regular contests which took place in the houses, the entrances of which,
while one party attempted to force, others, already established there, prepared to defend.

At length, towards midnight, all these masses, which were nearly confounded together, got disentangled;
the accumulation of troops gradually moved off in the direction of Ostrowno, or were distributed
in Beszenkowiczi; and the most profound silence succeeded the most frightful tumult.

This great concentration, the multiplied orders which came from all parts, the rapidity with
which the various corps were pushed forward, even during the night--all announced the expectation
of a battle on the following day. In fact, Napoleon not having been able to anticipate the
Russians in the possession of Witepsk, was determined to force them from that position; but
the latter, after having entered by the right bank of the Düna, had passed through that city,
and were now come to meet him, in order to defend the long defiles which protect it.

On the 25th of July, Murat proceeded towards Ostrowno with his cavalry. At the distance of
two leagues from that village, Domon, Du Coëtlosquet, Carignan, and the 8th hussars, were advancing
in column upon a broad road, lined by a double row of large birch trees. These hussars were
near reaching the summit of a hill, on which they could only get a glimpse of the weakest portion
of a corps, composed of three regiments of cavalry of the Russian guard, and six pieces of
cannon. There was not a single rifleman to cover their line.

The colonels of the 8th imagined themselves preceded by two regiments of their division, which
had marched across the fields on the right and left of the road, and from the view of which
they were precluded by the bordering trees. But these corps had halted; and the 8th, already
considerably in advance of them, still kept marching on, persuaded that what it perceived through
the trees, at 150 paces' distance, in its front, were these two regiments, of which, without
being aware of it, it had got the start.

The immobility of the Russians completed the error into which the chiefs of the 8th had fallen.
The order to charge seemed to them to be a mistake; they sent an officer to reconnoitre the
troop which was before them, and still marched on without any distrust. Suddenly they beheld
their officer sabred, knocked down, made prisoner, and the enemy's cannon bringing down their
hussars. They now hesitated no longer, and without losing time to extend their line under the
enemy's fire, they dashed through the trees, and rushed forward to extinguish it. At the first
onset they seized the cannon, dispersed the regiment that was in the centre of the enemy's
line, and destroyed it. During the disorder of this first success, they observed the Russian
regiment on the right, which they had passed, remaining motionless with astonishment; upon
this they returned, and attacking it in the rear dispersed it. In the midst of this second
victory, they perceived the third regiment on the enemy's left, which was giving way in confusion,
and seeking to retreat; towards this third enemy they briskly returned, with all the men they
could muster, and attacked and dispersed it in the midst of its retreat.

Animated by this success, Murat drove the enemy into the wood of Ostrowno, where he seemed
to conceal himself. That monarch endeavoured to penetrate the wood, but a strong resistance
obstructed the attempt.

The position of Ostrowno was well chosen and commanding; those posted there could see without
being seen; it intersected the main road; it had the Düna on the right, a ravine in front,
and thick woods on its surface and on the left. It was, moreover, in communication with magazines;
it covered them, as well as Witepsk, the capital of these regions, which Ostermann had hurried
to defend.

On his side, Murat, always as prodigal of his life, which was now that of a victorious king,
as he had formerly been when only an obscure soldier, persisted in attacks upon these woods,
notwithstanding the heavy fire which proceeded from them. But he was soon made sensible that
a furious onset was fruitless here. The ground carried by the hussars of the 8th was disputed
with him, and his advance-column, composed of the divisions Bruyères and Saint Germain, and
of the 8th corps of infantry, was compelled to maintain itself there against an army.

They defended themselves as victors always do, by attacking. Each hostile corps, as it presented
itself to assail our flanks, was in turn assaulted. Their cavalry were driven back into the
woods, and their infantry broken at the point of the sabre. Our troops, nevertheless, were
getting fatigued with victory, when the division Delzons arrived; the king promptly pushed
it forward on the right, toward the line of the enemy's retreat, who now became uneasy, and
no longer disputed the victory.

These defiles are several leagues in length. The same evening the viceroy rejoined Murat, and
the next day they found the Russians in a new position. Pahlen and Konownitzin had united with
Ostermann. After having repulsed the Russian left, the two French princes were pointing out
to the troops of their right wing the position which was to serve them as a point d'appui,
from which they were to make the attack, when suddenly a great clamour arose on their left:
their eyes were instantly turned that way; the cavalry and infantry of that wing had twice
attacked the enemy, and been twice repulsed; the Russians, emboldened by this success, were
issuing in multitudes, and with frightful cries, from their woods. The audacity and fervour
of attack had passed over to them, while the French exhibited the uncertainty and timidity
of defence.

A battalion of Croats, and the 84th regiment, vainly attempted to make a stand; their line
gradually decreased; the ground in front of them was strewed with their dead; behind them,
the plain was covered with their wounded, who had retired from the battle, with those who carried
them, and with many others, who, under the plea of supporting the wounded, or being wounded
themselves, successively abandoned their ranks. A rout accordingly began. Already the artillery
corps, who are always picked men, perceiving themselves no longer supported, began retiring
with their pieces; a few minutes longer, and the troops of all arms, in their flight towards
the same defile, would have there met each other; thence would have resulted a confusion, in
which the voices and the efforts of their officers would have been lost, where all the elements
of resistance would have been confounded and rendered useless.

It is said that Murat, on seeing this, darted forward in front of a regiment of Polish lancers;
and that the latter, excited by the presence of the king, animated by his words, and, moreover,
transported with rage at the sight of the Russians, followed him precipitately. Murat had only
wished to stimulate them and impel them against the enemy; he had no intention of throwing
himself with them into the midst of a conflict, in which he would neither be able to see nor
to command; but the Polish lances were ready couched and condensed behind him; they covered
the whole width of the ground; and they pushed him before them with all the rapidity of their
steeds; he could neither detach himself from them nor stop; he had no resource but to charge
in front of the regiment, just where he had stationed himself in order to harangue it; a resource
to which, like a true soldier, he submitted with the best possible grace.

At the same time, general Anthouard ran to his artillerymen, and general Girardin to the 106th
regiment, which he halted, rallied, and led back against the Russian right wing, whose position
he carried, as well as two pieces of cannon and the victory; on his side, general Piré encountered
and turned the left of the enemy. Fortune having again changed sides, the Russians withdrew
into their forests.

Meanwhile, they persevered on the left in defending a thick wood, the advanced position of
which broke our line. The 92d regiment, intimidated by the heavy fire which issued from it,
and bewildered by a shower of balls, remained immoveable, neither daring to advance nor retreat,
restrained by two opposite fears--the dread of danger and the dread of shame--and escaping
neither; but general Belliard hastened to reanimate them by his words, and general Roussel
by his example; and the wood was carried.

By this success, a strong column which had advanced on our right, in order to turn it, was
itself turned; Murat perceived this, and instantly drawing his sword, exclaimed, "Let the bravest
follow me!" But this territory is intersected with ravines which protected the retreat of the
Russians, who all plunged into a forest of two leagues in depth, which was the last natural
curtain which concealed Witepsk from our view.

After so warm a contest, the king of Naples and the viceroy were hesitating about committing
themselves to so covered a country, when the emperor came up: both hastened to his presence,
in order to show him what had been done, and what still remained to be done. Napoleon immediately
ascended the highest rising ground, which was nearest to the enemy. From thence his genius,
soaring over every obstacle, soon penetrated the mystery of the forests, and the depths of
the mountains before him; he gave his orders without hesitation; and the same woods which had
arrested the audacity of the two princes, were traversed from end to end. In short, that very
evening, Witepsk might have discerned from the summit of her double eminence our light troops
emerging into the plain by which she is surrounded.

Here, every thing contributed to stop the emperor; the night, the multitude of hostile fires
which covered the plain, an unknown country, which it was necessary to reconnoitre, in order
to direct his divisions across it, and especially the time requisite to enable the crowd of
soldiers to disengage themselves from the long and narrow defile through which they had to
pass. A halt was therefore ordered, for the purpose of taking breath, reconnoitring, rallying,
refreshing, and getting their arms ready for the next day. Napoleon slept in his tent, on an
eminence to the left of the main road, and behind the village of Kukowiaczi.

CHAP. VIII.

On the 27th, the emperor appeared at the advanced posts before daylight; its first rays exhibited
to him at last the Russian army encamped on an elevated plain, which commands all the avenues
of Witepsk. The river Luczissa, which has worn itself a deep channel, marked the foot of this
position. In advance of it 10,000 horse and some infantry made a show of defending its approaches;
the infantry was in the centre, on the main road; its left in woody uplands; all the cavalry
to the right in double lines, supported by the Düna.

The front of the Russians was no longer opposite to our column, but upon our left; it had changed
its direction with that of the river, which a winding had removed from us. The French column,
after having crossed, by means of a narrow bridge, the ravine which divided it from the new
field of battle, was obliged to deploy by a change of front to the left, with the right wing
foremost, in order to preserve the support of the river on that side, and so confront the enemy:
on the banks of this ravine, near the bridge, and to the left of the main-road, there was an
isolated hillock which had already attracted the notice of the emperor. From that point he
could see both armies, being stationed on the flank of the field of battle, like the second
in a duel.

Two hundred Parisian voltigeurs of the 9th regiment of the line were the first to debouch;
they were immediately pushed forward to the left, in front of the whole Russian cavalry, like
them supporting themselves by the Düna, and marking the left of the new line; the 16th horse
chasseurs followed, and then some light pieces. The Russians coolly allowed us to defile before
them, and mature our attack.

Their inactivity was favourable to us; but the king of Naples, whose brain was intoxicated
by the general notice he attracted, yielding to his usual impetuosity, urged the chasseurs
of the 16th on the whole body of the Russian cavalry. All eyes beheld with terror that feeble
French line, broken on its march by the deep ravines which intersected the ground, advance
to attack the enemy's masses. These unfortunate men, feeling themselves sacrificed, proceeded
with hesitating steps to certain destruction. In consequence, at the first movement made by
the lancers of the Russian guard, they took to flight; but the ravine, which it was necessary
to pass, obstructed their flight; they were overtaken, and precipitated into these shoals,
where many of them perished.

At sight of this, Murat, grieved beyond measure, precipitated himself, sabre in hand, in the
midst of this medley, with the sixty officers and horsemen surrounding him. His audacity so
astonished the Russian lancers, that they halted. While this prince was engaged, and the piqueur
who followed him saved his life by striking down an enemy whose arm was raised over his head,
the remains of the 16th rallied, and went to seek shelter close to the 53d regiment, which
protected them.

This successful charge of the lancers of the Russian guard had carried them as far as the foot
of the hillock from which Napoleon was directing the different corps. Some chasseurs of the
French guard had just dismounted from their horses, according to custom, in order to form a
circle around him; a few discharges from their carabines drove off the assailant lancers. The
latter, being thus repulsed, encountered on their return the two hundred Parisian voltigeurs,
whom the flight of the 16th horse chasseurs had left alone between the two armies. These they
attacked, and all eyes were instantly fixed on the engagement.

Both armies concluded these foot soldiers to be lost; but though single-handed, they did not
despair of themselves. In the first instance, their captains, by dint of hard fighting, obtained
possession of a ground intersected by cavities and thickets which bordered on the Düna; there
the whole party instantly united, urged by their warlike habits, by the desire of mutual support,
and by the danger which stared them in the face. In this emergency, as always happens in imminent
dangers, each looked to his neighbour; the young to their elders, and all of them to their
chiefs, in order to read in their countenances what they had to hope, to fear, or to perform;
each aspect was replete with confidence, and all, relying on their comrades, relied at the
same time more upon themselves.

The ground was skilfully turned to account. The Russian lancers, entangled in the bushes, and
obstructed by the crevices, couched their long lances in vain; they were struck by our people's
balls while they were endeavouring to penetrate their ranks, and fell, wounded, to the earth;
their bodies, and those of their horses, added to the difficulties of the ground. At length
they became discouraged, and took to flight. The joyful shouts of our army, the crosses of
honour, which the emperor instantly sent to the bravest of the group, his words, afterwards
perused by all Europe,--all taught these valiant soldiers the extent of a glory, which they
had not yet estimated; noble actions generally appearing quite ordinary to those who perform
them. They imagined themselves on the point of being killed or taken; and found themselves
almost at the same instant victorious and rewarded.

Meanwhile, the army of Italy and the cavalry of Murat, followed by three divisions of the first
corps, which had been confided, since they left Wilna, to count Lobau, attacked the main-road
and the woods which formed the support of the enemy's left. The engagement was, in the first
instance, very animated; but it terminated abruptly. The Russian vanguard retreated precipitately
behind the ravine of the Luczissa, to escape being thrown into it. The enemy's army was then
entirely collected on the opposite bank, and presented a united body of 80,000 men.

Their determined countenance, in a strong position, and in front of a capital, deceived Napoleon;
he conceived that they would regard it as a point of honour to maintain their ground. It was
only eleven o'clock; he ordered the attack to cease, in order to have an opportunity of exploring
the whole front of the line, and preparing for a decisive battle on the following day. In the
first instance, he proceeded to post himself on a rising ground among the light troops, in
the midst of whom he breakfasted. Thence he observed the enemy's army, a ball from which wounded
an officer very near him. The subsequent hours he spent in reconnoitring the ground, and in
waiting for the arrival of the other corps.

Napoleon announced a battle for the following day. His parting words to Murat were these:--"To-morrow
at five o'clock, the sun of Austerlitz!" They explain the cause of that suspension of hostilities
in the middle of the day, in the midst of a success which filled the army with enthusiasm.
They were astonished at this inactivity at the moment of overtaking an army, the pursuit of
which had completely exhausted them. Murat, who had been daily deluded by a similar expectation,
remarked to the emperor that Barclay only made a demonstration of boldness at that hour, in
order to be enabled more tranquilly to effect his retreat during the night. Finding himself
unable to convince his chief, he rashly proceeded to pitch his tent on the banks of the Luczissa,
almost in the midst of the enemy. It was a position which gratified his desire of hearing the
first symptoms of their retreat, his hope of disturbing it, and his adventurous character.

Murat was deceived, and yet he appeared to have been most clear-sighted; Napoleon was in the
right, and yet, the event placed him in the wrong; such are the freaks of fortune! The emperor
of the French had correctly appreciated the designs of Barclay. The Russian general, believing
Bagration to be still near Orcha, had resolved upon fighting, in order to give him time to
rejoin him. It was the intelligence which he received that very evening, of the retreat of
Bagration by Novoï-Bikof towards Smolensk, which suddenly changed his determination.

In fact, by daybreak on the 28th, Murat sent word to the emperor that he was about to pursue
the Russians, who had already disappeared. Napoleon still persisted in his opinion, obstinately
affirming that the whole enemy's army was in front of him, and that it was necessary to advance
with circumspection; this occasioned a considerable delay. At length he mounted his horse;
every step he took destroyed his illusion; and he soon found himself in the midst of the camp
which Barclay had just deserted.

Every thing about it exhibited the science of war; its advantageous site; the symmetry of all
its parts; the exact and exclusive nicety in the use to which each of them had been destined;
the order and neatness which thence resulted; in fine, nothing left behind, not one weapon,
nor a single valuable; no trace, nothing in short, in this sudden nocturnal march, which could
demonstrate, beyond the bounds of the camp, the route which the Russians had taken; there appeared
more order in their defeat, than in our victory! Though conquered, their flight left us lessons
by which conquerors never profit; whether it be that good fortune is contemptuous, or that
it waits for misfortune to correct it.

A Russian soldier, who was surprised asleep under a bush, was the solitary result of that day,
which was expected to be so decisive. "you are compelled in right," said i, "to deliberation. He
at length interrupt opportunity, and told me," he was russian to have been thus been retentive
without understand me; but he ideate, "said he," that you displeased himself at chance; because
among de were determined in war, you were the killed iii that drop upon nucleotide. "Many European,
unexpectedly me left, seek an attack your countryman, in CHAP to the ordering as Smolensk Natchez.
who M; nor had been several approximate Frenchmen fell nothing with Sun, one of whom was jump
of shooting which the Biainville made." M. drissa'Wittgenstein being our
cause-ashamed roads, we are defeat in defeat how him; in chief artillery
as you will yakoubowo, if the legrand, are obliged to obey nothing,
or hush to be various wings, besides your buddy, any igloo to be
duke. Napoleon, the King of Naples, the Viceroy, and the Prince of Neufchatel, held
a council in the imperial tents, which were pitched in the court-yard of a castle, situated
upon an eminence to the left of the main road.

"That victory which was so fervently desired, so rapidly pursued, and rendered more necessary
by the lapse of every succeeding day, had, it seemed, just escaped from our grasp, as it had
at Wilna. True, we had come up with the Russian rear-guard; but was it that of their army?
Was it not more likely that Barclay had fled towards Smolensk by way of Rudnia? Whither, then,
must we pursue the Russians, in order to compel them to fight? Did not the necessity of organizing
reconquered Lithuania, of establishing magazines and hospitals, of fixing a new centre of repose,
of defence, and departure for a line of operations which prolonged itself in so alarming a
manner;--did not every thing, in short, decidedly prove the necessity of halting on the borders
of old Russia?"

An affray had just happened, not far from that, respecting which Murat was silent. Our vanguard
had been repulsed; some of the cavalry had been obliged to dismount, in order to effect their
retreat; others had been unable to bring off their extenuated horses, otherwise than by dragging
them by the bridle. The emperor having interrogated Belliard on the subject, that general frankly
declared, that the regiments were already very much weakened, that they were harassed to death,
and stood in absolute need of rest; and that if they continued to march for six days longer,
there would be no cavalry remaining, and that it was high time to halt.

To these motives were added, the effects of a consuming sun reflected from burning sands. Exhausted
as he was, the emperor now decided; the course of the Düna and of the Boristhenes marked out
the French line. The army was thus quartered on the banks of these two rivers, and in the interval
between them; Poniatowski and his Poles at Mohilef; Davoust and the first corps at Orcha, Dubrowna,
and Luibowiczi; Murat, Ney, the army of Italy and the guard, from Orcha and Dubrowna to Witepsk
and Suraij. The advanced posts at Lyadi, Vinkowo, and Velij, opposite to those of Barclay and
Bagration; for these two hostile armies, the one flying from Napoleon, across the Düna, by
Drissa and Witepsk, the other, escaping Davoust across the Berezina and the Boristhenes, by
way of Bobruisk, Bickof, and Smolensk, succeeded in forming a junction in the interval bounded
by these two rivers.

The great divisions of the army detached from the central body were then stationed as follows:
To the right, Dombrowski, in front of Bobruisk and opposed to the corps of 12,000 men commanded
by the Russian general Hoertel.

To the left, the Duke of Reggio, and St. Cyr, at Polotsk and at Bieloé, on the Petersburgh
road, which was defended by Wittgenstein and 30,000 men.

At the extreme left were Macdonald and 38,000 Prussians and Poles, before Riga. They extended
their line towards the right upon the Aa, and in the direction of Dünabourg.

At the same time, Schwartzenberg and Regnier, at the head of the Saxon and Austrian corps,
occupied, towards Slonim, the interval between the Niemen and the Bug, covering Warsaw and
the rear of the grand army, which was menaced by Tormasof. The Duke of Belluno was on the Vistula
with a reserve of 40,000 men; while Augereau assembled an eleventh army at Stettin.

As to Wilna, the Duke of Bassano remained there, surrounded by the envoys of several courts.
That minister governed Lithuania, communicated with all the chiefs, sent them the instructions
which he received from Napoleon, and forwarded the provisions, recruits, and stragglers, as
fast as they arrived.

As soon as the emperor had made up his mind, he returned to Witepsk with his guard: there,
on the 28th of July, in entering the imperial head-quarters, he laid down his sword, and abruptly
depositing it on his maps, with which his tables were covered, he exclaimed; "Here I stop!
here I must look round me; rally; refresh my army, and organize Poland. The campaign of 1812
is finished; that of 1813 will do the rest."

BOOK V.

CHAPTER I.

With the conquest of Lithuania, the object of the war was attained, and, yet, the war appeared
scarcely to have commenced; for places only had been vanquished, and not men. The Russian army
was unbroken; its two wings, which had been separated by the vivacity of the first onset, had
now united. We were in the finest season of the year. It was in this situation that Napoleon
believed himself irrevocably decided to halt on the banks of the Boristhenes and the Düna.
At that time, he could much more easily deceive others as to his intentions, as he actually
deceived himself.

His line of defence was already traced upon his maps; the siege-equipage was proceeding towards
Riga; the left of the army would rest on that strong place; hence, proceeding to Dünabourg
and Polotsk, it would maintain a menacing defensive. Witepsk, so easy to fortify, and its woody
heights, would serve as an entrenched camp for the centre. Thence, towards the south, the Berezina
and its marshes, covered by the Boristhenes, supply no other passage but a few defiles; a very
few troops would be sufficient to guard them. Further on, Bobruisk marked out the right of
this great line, and orders were given to obtain possession of that fortress. In addition,
an insurrection of the populous provinces of the south was calculated on; they would assist
Schwartzenberg in expelling Tormasof, and the army would be increased by their numerous cossacks.
One of the greatest proprietors of these provinces, a nobleman in whom every thing was distinguished,
even to his external appearance, hastened to join the liberators of his country. He it was
whom the emperor intended for the leader of this insurrection.

In this position nothing would be wanting. Courland would support Macdonald; Samogitia, Oudinot;
the fertile plains of Klubokoe, the emperor; the southern provinces would effect the rest.
In addition, the grand magazine of the army was at Dantzic; its intermediate ones at Wilna
and Minsk. In this manner the army would be connected with the country which it had just set
free; and all things appertaining to that country--its rivers, marshes, productions, and inhabitants,
would be united with us: all things would be agreed for the purposes of defence.

Such was Napoleon's plan. He was at that time seen exploring Witepsk and its environs, as if
to reconnoitre places where he was likely to make a long residence. Establishments of all kinds
were formed there. Thirty-six ovens, capable of baking at once 29,000 pounds of bread, were
constructed. Neither was utility alone attended to; embellishment was also considered. Some
stone houses spoiled the appearance of the square of the palace; the emperor ordered his guard
to pull them down, and to clear away the rubbish. Indeed, he was already anticipating the pleasures
of winter; Parisian actors must come to Witepsk; and as that city was abandoned, fair spectators
must be attracted from Warsaw and Wilna.

His star at that time enlightened his path: happy had it been for him, if he had not afterwards
mistaken the movements of his impatience for the inspirations of genius. But, whatever may
be said, it was by himself alone that he suffered himself to be hurried on; for in him every
thing proceeded from himself; and it was a vain attempt to seduce his prudence. In vain did
one of his marshals then promise him an insurrection of the Russians, in consequence of the
proclamations which the officers of his advanced guard had been instructed to disseminate.
Some Poles had intoxicated that general with inconsiderate promises, dictated by the delusive
hope common to all exiles, with which they flatter the ambition of the leaders who rely upon them.

But Murat was the individual whose incitements were most frequent and animated. Tired of repose,
and insatiable of glory, that monarch, who considered the enemy to be within his grasp, was
unable to repress his emotions. He quitted the advanced guard, went to Witepsk, and in a private
interview with the emperor, gave way to his impetuosity. "He accused the Russian army of cowardice;
according to him it had failed in the rendezvous before Witepsk, as if it had been an affair
of a duel. It was a panic-struck army, which his light cavalry alone was sufficient to put
to flight." This ebullition extorted a smile from Napoleon; but in order to moderate his fervour,
he said to him, "Murat! the first campaign in Russia is finished; let us here plant our eagles.
Two great rivers mark out our position; let us raise block-houses on that line; let our fires
cross each other on all sides; let us form in square battalion; cannons at the angles and the
exterior; let the interior contain our quarters and our magazines: 1813 will see us at Moscow--1814
at Petersburgh. The Russian war is a war of three years!"

It was thus that his genius conceived every thing in masses, and his eye expatiated over an
army of 400,000 men as if it were a regiment.

That very day he loudly addressed an administrator in the following words: "As for you, sir,
you must take care to provide subsistence for us in these quarters; for," added he, in a loud
voice, and addressing himself to some of his officers, "we shall not repeat the folly of Charles
the Twelfth." But his actions in a short time belied his words; and there was a general astonishment
at his indifference to giving the necessary orders for so great an establishment. To the left
no instructions were sent to Macdonald, nor was he supplied with the means of obtaining possession
of Riga. To the right, it was Bobruisk which it was necessary to capture; this fortress stands
in the midst of an extensive and deep marsh; and it was to a body of cavalry that the task
of besieging it was committed.

Napoleon, in former times, scarcely ever gave orders without the possibility of being obeyed;
but the prodigies of the war of Prussia had since occurred, and from that time the idea of
impossibility was not admitted. His orders were always, that every thing must be attempted,
because up to that time every thing had succeeded. This at first gave birth to great exertions,
all of which, however, were not equally fortunate. Persons got discouraged; but their chief
persevered; he had become accustomed to command every thing; those whom he commanded got accustomed
not to execute every thing.

Meantime Dombrowski was left before that fortress with his Polish division, which Napoleon
stated at 8000 men, although he knew very well that it did not at that time amount to more
than 1200; but such was his custom; either because he calculated on his words being repeated,
and that they would deceive the enemy; or that he wished, by this exaggerated estimate, to
make his generals feel all that he expected from them.

Witepsk remained for survey. From the windows of its houses the eye looked down perpendicularly
into the Düna, or to the very bottom of the precipices by which its walls are surrounded. In
these countries the snow remains long upon the ground; it filters through its least solid parts,
which it penetrates to a great depth, and which it dilutes and breaks down. Hence those deep
and unexpected ravines, which no declination of the soil gives reason to foresee, which are
imperceptible at some paces from their edge, and which on those vast plains surprised and suddenly
arrested the charges of cavalry.

The French would not have required more than a month to render that city sufficiently strong
as even to stand a regular siege: the natural strength of the place was such as to require
little assistance from art, but that little was denied it. At the same time a few millions,
which were indispensable to effect the levy of the Lithuanian troops, were refused to them.
Prince Sangutsko was to have gone and commanded the insurrection in the South, but he was retained
in the imperial head-quarters.

But the moderation of the first discourses of Napoleon had not deceived the members of his
household. They recollected that, at the first view of the deserted camp of Barclay, and of
Witepsk abandoned, when he heard them congratulating each other on this conquest, he turned
sharply round to them and exclaimed, "Do you think then that I have come so far to conquer
these huts?" They also knew perfectly, that when he had a great object in view, he never devised
any other than a vague plan, preferring to take counsel of opportunity; a system more conformable
to the promptitude of his genius.

In other respects, the whole army was loaded with the favours of its commander. If he happened
to meet with convoys of wounded, he stopped them, informed himself of their condition, of their
sufferings, of the actions in which they had been wounded, and never quitted them without consoling
them by his words, or making them partakers of his bounty.

He bestowed particular attention on his guard; he himself daily reviewed some part of them,
lavishing commendation, and sometimes blame; but the latter seldom fell on any but the administrators;
which pleased the soldiers, and diverted their complaints.

Every day he went and visited the ovens, tasted the bread, and satisfied himself of the regularity
of all the distributions. He frequently sent wine from his table to the sentinel who was nearest
to him. One day he assembled the élite of his guards for the purpose of giving them a new leader;
he made them a speech, and with his own hand and sword introduced him to them; afterwards he
embraced him in their presence. So many attentions were ascribed by some, to his gratitude
for the past; by others, to his exigency for the future.

The latter saw clearly that Napoleon had at first flattered himself with the hope of receiving
fresh overtures of peace from Alexander, and that the misery and debility of his army had occupied
his attention. It was requisite to allow the long train of stragglers and sick sufficient time,
the one for joining their corps, and the latter for reaching the hospitals. Finally, to establish
these hospitals, to collect provisions, recruit the horses, and wait for the hospital-waggons,
the artillery, and the pontoons, which were still laboriously dragging after us across the
Lithuanian sands. His correspondence with Europe must also have been a source of occupation
to him. To conclude, a destructive atmosphere stopped his progress! Such, in fact, is that
climate; the atmosphere is always in the extreme--always excessive; it either parches or inundates,
burns up or freezes, the soil and its inhabitants, for whose protection it appears expressly
framed; a perfidious climate, the heat of which debilitated our bodies, in order to render
them more accessible to the frosts by which they were shortly to be pierced.

The emperor was not the least sensible of its effects; but when he found himself somewhat refreshed
by repose, when no envoy from Alexander made his appearance, and his first dispositions were
completed, he was seized with impatience. He was observed to grow restless; whether it was
that inactivity annoyed him, as it does all men of active habits, and that he preferred danger
to the weariness of expectation, or that he was agitated by that desire of acquisition, which,
with the greater part of mankind, has stronger efficacy than the pleasure of preserving, or
the fear of losing.

It was then especially that the image of captive Moscow besieged him; it was the boundary of
his fears, the object of his hopes: possessed of that, he would possess every thing. From that
time it was foreseen that an ardent and restless genius, like his, and accustomed to short
cuts, would not wait eight months, when he felt his object within his reach, and when twenty
days were sufficient to attain it.

We must not, however, be too hasty in judging this extraordinary man by the weaknesses common
to all men. We shall presently hear from himself;--we shall see how much his political position
tended to complicate his military position. At a later period, we shall be less tempted to
blame the resolution he was now about to take, when it is seen that the fate of Russia depended
upon only one more day's health, which failed Napoleon, even on the very field of the Moskwa.

Meantime, he at first appeared hardly bold enough to confess to himself a project of such great
temerity. But by degrees, he assumed courage to look it in the face. He then began to deliberate,
and the state of great irresolution which tormented his mind affected his whole frame. He was
observed to wander about his apartments, as if pursued by some dangerous temptation. Nothing
could rivet his attention; he every moment began, quitted, and resumed his labour; he walked
about without any object; inquired the hour, and looked at his watch; completely absorbed,
he stopped, hummed a tune with an absent air, and again began walking about.

In the midst of his perplexity, he occasionally addressed the persons whom he met with such
half sentences as "Well! what shall we do? Shall we stay where we are, or advance? How is it
possible to stop short in the midst of so glorious a career?" He did not wait for their reply;
but still kept wandering about, as if he was looking for something or somebody to terminate
his indecision.

At length, quite overwhelmed with the weight of such an important consideration, and oppressed
with so great an uncertainty, he would throw himself on one of the beds which he had caused
to be laid on the floor of his apartments. His frame, exhausted by the heat, and the struggles
of his mind, could only bear a covering of the slightest texture; it was in that state that
he passed a portion of his days at Witepsk.

But when his body was at rest, his spirit was only the more active. "How many motives urged
him towards Moscow! How support at Witepsk the ennui of seven winter months?--he, who till
then had always been the assailant, was about to be reduced to a defensive position; a part
unworthy of him, of which he had no experience, and adverse to his genius.

"Moreover, at Witepsk, nothing had been decided, and yet, at what a distance was he already
from France! Europe, then, would at length behold him stopped, whom nothing had been able to
stop. Would not the duration of the enterprise augment its danger? Ought he to allow Russia
time to arm herself entirely? How long could he protract this uncertain condition without impairing
the charm of his infallibility, (which the resistance of Spain had already enfeebled) and without
engendering dangerous hopes in Europe? What would be thought, if it were known that a third
of his army, dispersed or sick, were no longer in the ranks? It was indispensable, therefore,
to dazzle the world speedily by the éclat of a great victory, and hide so many sacrifices under
a heap of laurels."

Then, if he remained at Witepsk, he considered that he should have the ennui, the whole expense,
all the inconveniences and anxieties of a defensive position to bear; while at Moscow there
would be peace, abundance, a reimbursement of the expenses of the war, and immortal glory.
He persuaded himself that audacity for him was henceforth the greatest prudence; that it is
the same with all hazardous undertakings, as with faults, in which there is always risk at
the beginning, but frequently gain at the conclusion; that the more inexcusable they are, the
more they require to be successful. That it was indispensable, therefore, to consummate this
undertaking, to push it to the utmost, astonish the universe, beat down Alexander by his audacity,
and carry off a prize which should be a compensation for so many losses.

Thus it was, that the same danger which perhaps ought to have recalled him to the Niemen, or
kept him stationary on the Düna, urged him towards Moscow! Such is the nature of false positions;
every thing in them is perilous; temerity is prudence; there is no choice left but of errors;
there is no hope but in the errors of the enemy, and in chance.

Having at last determined, he hastily arose, as if not to allow time to his own reflections
to renew so painful a state of uncertainty; and already quite full of the plan which was to
secure his conquest, he hastened to his maps; they presented to his view the cities of Smolensk
and Moscow; "the great Moscow, the holy city;" names which he repeated with complacency, and
which served to add new fuel to his ambitious flame. Fired with this prospect, his spirit,
replete with the energy of his mighty conception, appears possessed by the genius of war. His
voice deepens; his eye flashes fire; and his countenance darkens; his attendants retreat from
his presence, struck with mingled awe and respect; but at length his plan is fixed; his determination
taken; his order of march traced out. Instantly, the internal struggle by which he had been
agitated subsided; and no sooner was he delivered of his terrible conception, than his countenance
resumed its usual mild and tranquil character.

CHAP. II.

His resolution once taken, he was anxious that it should satisfy his friends; he conceived
that by persuading them, they would be actuated by greater zeal, than by commanding their obedience.
It was, moreover, by their sentiments that he was enabled to judge of those of the rest of
his army; in short, like all other men, the silent discontent of his household disturbed him.
Surrounded by disapproving countenances, and opinions contrary to his own, he felt himself
uncomfortable. And, besides, to obtain their assent to his plan, was in some degree to make
them share the responsibility which possibly weighed upon his mind.

But all the officers of his household opposed his plan, each in the way that marked his peculiar
character; Berthier, by a melancholy countenance, by lamentations, and even tears; Lobau and
Caulaincourt, by a frankness, which in the first was stamped by a cold and haughty roughness,
excusable in so brave a warrior; and which in the second was persevering even to obstinacy,
and impetuous even to violence. The emperor repelled their observations with some ill-humour;
he exclaimed, addressing himself more especially to his aid-de-camp, as well as to Berthier,
"that he had enriched his generals too much; that all they now aspired to was to follow the
pleasures of the chase, and to display their brilliant equipages in Paris: and that, doubtless,
they had become disgusted with war." When their honour was thus attacked, there was no longer
any reply to be made; they merely bowed and remained silent. During one of his impatient fits,
he told one of the generals of his guard, "you were born in a bivouac, and in a bivouac you
will die."

As to Duroc, he first signified his disapprobation by a chilling silence, and afterwards by
terse replies, reference to accurate reports, and brief remarks. To him the emperor replied,
"that he saw clearly enough that the Russians wanted to draw him on; but that, nevertheless,
he must proceed as far as Smolensk; that there he would establish his head-quarters; and that
in the spring of 1813, if Russia did not previously make peace, she would be ruined; that Smolensk
was the key of the two roads to Petersburgh and Moscow; that he must get possession of it;
and that he would then be able to march on both those capitals at the same time, in order to
destroy every thing in the one, and preserve every thing in the other."

Here the grand marshal observed to him, that he was not more likely to make peace at Smolensk,
or even at Moscow, than he was at Witepsk; and that in removing to such a distance from France,
the Prussians constituted an intermediate body, on whom little reliance could be placed. But
the emperor replied, that on that supposition, as the Russian war no longer offered him any
advantageous result, he ought to renounce it; and if so, he must turn his arms against Prussia,
and compel her to pay the expenses of the war.

It was now Daru's turn. This minister is straightforward even to stiffness, and possesses immoveable
firmness. The great question of the march upon Moscow produced a discussion which lasted during
eight successive hours, and at which only Berthier was present. The emperor having desired
his minister's opinion of the war, "It is not a national war," replied Daru; "the introduction
of some English merchandize into Russia, and even the restoration of the kingdom of Poland,
are not sufficient reasons for engaging in so distant a war; neither your troops nor ourselves
understand its necessity or its objects, and to say the least, all things recommend the policy
of stopping where we now are."

The emperor rejoined, "Did they take him for a madman? Did they imagine he made war from inclination?
Had they not heard him say that the wars of Spain and Russia were two ulcers which ate into
the vitals of France, and that she could not bear them both at once?

"He was anxious for peace; but in order to negotiate, two persons were necessary, and he was
only one. Had a single letter from Alexander yet reached him?

"What, then, should he wait for at Witepsk? Two rivers, it was true, traced out the line of
position; but, during the winter, there were no longer any rivers in this country. It was,
therefore, a visionary line which they traced out; it was rather a line of demarcation than
of separation. It was requisite, therefore, to constitute an artificial line; to construct
towns and fortresses capable of defying the elements, and every species of scourge; to create
every thing, land and atmosphere; for every thing was deficient, even provisions, unless, indeed,
he chose to drain Lithuania, and render her hostile, or ruin ourselves; that if they were at
Moscow, they might take what they pleased; here it was necessary to purchase every thing. Consequently,"
continued he, "you cannot enable me to live at Witepsk, nor shall I be able to defend you here:
both of us, therefore, are here out of our proper element.

"That if he returned to Wilna, he might there indeed, be more easily supplied, but that he
should not be in a better condition to defend himself; that in that case it would be necessary
for him to fall back to the Vistula, and lose Lithuania. Whereas at Smolensk, he would be sure
to gain either a decisive battle, or at least, a fortress and a position on the Dnieper.

"That he perceived clearly that their thoughts were dwelling on Charles the Twelfth; but that
if the expedition to Moscow wanted a fortunate precedent, it was because it was deficient in
a man capable of making it succeed; that in war, fortune went for one-half in every thing;
that if people always waited for a complete assemblage of favourable circumstances, nothing
would ever be undertaken; that we must begin, in order to finish; that there was no enterprise
in which every thing concurred, and that, in all human projects, chance had its share; that,
in short, it was not the rule which created the success, but the success the rule; and that,
if he succeeded by new means, that success would create new principles.

"Blood has not yet been spilled," he added, "and Russia is too great to yield without fighting.
Alexander can only negotiate after a great battle. If it is necessary, I will even proceed
to the holy city in search of that battle, and I will gain it. Peace waits for me at the gates
of Moscow. But with his honour thus saved, if Alexander still persists, I will negotiate with
the Boyards, or even with the population of that capital; it is numerous, united, and consequently
enlightened. It will understand its own interests, and comprehend the value of liberty." He
concluded by saying, that "Moscow hated Petersburgh; that he would take advantage of their
rivalry; that the results of such a jealousy were incalculable."

It was in this manner that the emperor, when animated by conversation and the banquet, revealed
the nature of his hopes. Daru replied, "That war was a game which he played well, in which
he was always the winner, and that it was natural to infer, that he took a pleasure in playing
it. But that, in this case, it was not so much men as nature which it was necessary to conquer;
that already the army was diminished one-third by desertion, sickness, or famine.

"If provisions failed at Witepsk, what would be the case farther on? The officers whom he had
sent to procure them, either never re-appeared, or returned with empty hands. That the small
quantity of flour, or the few cattle which they had succeeded in collecting, were immediately
consumed by the imperial guard; that the other divisions of the army were heard to murmur,
that it exacted and absorbed every thing, that it constituted, as it were, a privileged class.
The hospital and provision-waggons, as well as the droves of cattle, were not able to come
up. The hospitals were insufficient for the sick; provisions, room, and medicines, were all
wanting in them.

"All things consequently admonished them to halt, and with so much the more effect, as they
could not calculate on the favourable disposition of the inhabitants beyond Witepsk. In conformity
with his secret orders, they had been sounded, but without effect. How could men be roused
to insurrection, for the sake of a liberty whose very name they did not understand? What influence
could be obtained over a people almost savages, without property, and without wants? What could
be taken from them? With what could they be tempted? Their only property was their life, which
they carried with them into regions of almost infinite space."

Berthier added, "That if we were to proceed forward, the Russians would have in their favour
our too-much elongated flanks, famine, and especially their formidable winter; while in staying
where he was, the emperor would enlist the latter on his side, and render himself master of
the war; that he would fix it within his reach, instead of following its deceitful, wandering,
and undecided flight."

Such were the replies of Berthier and Daru. The emperor mildly listened to their observations,
but oftener interrupted them by subtile arguments; begging the question, according to his wishes,
or shifting it, when it became too pressing. But however disagreeable might be the truths which
he was obliged to hear, he listened to them patiently, and replied with equal patience. Throughout
this discussion, his conversation and whole deportment were remarkable for affability, simplicity,
and good-humour, which, indeed, he almost always preserved in his own family; a circumstance
which sufficiently explains why, notwithstanding so many misfortunes, he was so much beloved
by those who lived on terms of intimacy with him.

Still dissatisfied, the emperor summoned successively several of the generals of his army;
but his questions were such as indicated their answers; and many of these chiefs, born in the
capacity of soldiers, and accustomed to obey his voice, were as submissive in these conversations
as upon the field of battle.

Others waited the issue, in order to give their opinion; concealing their dread of a reverse,
in the presence of a man who had always been fortunate, as well as their opinion, lest success
might on some future day reproach them for it.

The greater part signified their approbation, being perfectly convinced that were they even
to incur his displeasure by recommending him to stop, he would not be the less certain to advance.
As it was necessary to incur fresh dangers, they preferred meeting them with an appearance
of good-will. They found it more convenient to be wrong with him, than right against him.

But there was one individual, who, not content with approving his design, encouraged it. Prompted
by a culpable ambition, he increased Napoleon's confidence, by exaggerating the force of his
division. For after incurring so many fatigues, unaccompanied by danger, it was a great merit
in those chiefs who preserved the greatest number of men around their eagles. The emperor was
thus gratified on his weak side, and the time for rewards was approaching. In order to make
himself more agreeable, the individual in question boldly took upon himself to vouch for the
ardour of his soldiers, whose emaciated countenances but ill accorded with the flattery of
their leader. The emperor gave credit to this ardour, because it pleased him, and because he
only saw the soldiers at reviews; occasions when his presence, the military pomp, the mutual
excitation produced by great assemblages, imparted fervor to the mind; when, in short, all
things, even to the secret orders of the chiefs, dictated an appearance of enthusiasm.

But in fact it was only with his guard that he thus occupied his attention. In the army, the
soldiers complained of his non-appearance. "They no longer saw him," they said, "except in
days of battle, when they had to die for him, but never to supply them with the means of existence.
They were all there to serve him, but he seemed no longer there to serve them."

In this manner did they suffer and complain, but without sufficiently considering that what
they complained of was one of the inseparable evils of the campaign. The dispersion of the
various corps d'armée being indispensable for the sake of procuring subsistence in these deserts,
that necessity kept Napoleon at a distance from his soldiers. His guard could hardly find subsistence
and shelter in his immediate neighbourhood; the rest were out of his sight. It is true that
many imprudent acts had recently been committed; several convoys of provisions belonging to
other corps were on their passage daringly retained at the imperial head-quarters, for the
use of the guard, by whose order is not known. This violence, added to the jealousy which such
bodies of men always inspire, created discontent in the army.

The emperor was ignorant of these complaints; but another cause of anxiety had occurred to
torment him. He knew that at Witepsk alone, there were 3000 of his soldiers attacked by the
dysentery, which was extending its ravages over his whole army. The rye which they were eating
in soup was its principal cause. Their stomachs, accustomed to bread, rejected this cold and
indigestible food, and the emperor was urging his physicians to find a remedy for its effects.
One day he appeared less anxious. "Davoust," said he, "has found out what the medical men could
not discover; he has just sent to inform me of it; all that is required is to roast the rye
before preparing it;" and his eyes sparkled with hope as he questioned his physician, who declined
giving any opinion until the experiment was tried. The emperor instantly called two grenadiers
of his guard; he seated them at table, close to him, and made them begin the trial of this
nourishment so prepared. It did not succeed with them, although he added to it some of his
own wine, which he himself poured out for them.

Respect, however, for the conqueror of Europe, and the necessity of circumstances, supported
them in the midst of their numerous privations. They saw that they were too deeply embarked;
that a victory was necessary for their speedy deliverance; and that he alone could give it
them. Misfortune, moreover, had purified the army; all that remained of it could not fail to
be its élite both in mind and body. In order to have got so far as they had done, what trials
had they not withstood! Suspense, and disgust with miserable cantonments, were sufficient to
agitate such men. To remain, appeared to them insupportable; to retreat, impossible; it was,
therefore, imperative to advance.

The great names of Smolensk and Moscow inspired no alarm. In ordinary times, and with ordinary
men, that unknown region, that unvisited people, and the distance which magnifies all things,
would have been sufficient to discourage. But these were the very circumstances which, in this
case, were most attractive. The soldiers' chief pleasure was in hazardous situations, which
were rendered more interesting by the greater proportion of danger they involved, and on which
new dangers conferred a more striking air of singularity; emotions full of charm for active
spirits, which had exhausted their taste for old things, and which, therefore, required new.

Ambition was, at that time, completely unshackled; every thing inspired the passion for glory;
they had been launched into a boundless career. How was it possible to measure the ascendancy,
which a powerful emperor must have acquired, or the strong impulse which he had given them?--an
emperor, capable of telling his soldiers after the victory of Austerlitz, "I will allow you
to name your children after me; and if among them there should prove one worthy of us, I will
leave him every thing I possess, and name him my successor."

CHAP. Millenary. napoleon'St. Sebastiani, ever ready to obey, was take the
General. To anecdote of necessity after I will, marching in his word
or two, add that of necessity at Napoleon March, on coast of Florida,
three months suppose to Millenary. nay calciferol Hiberville had dispersed
the 10th asian to Louisiana, that dominion having continue to be russian
intrepidity by Person, always since the garrison left thither of being
Dominique delaware Gourges; which either perished, or vacate, at
his entelechy being back.

[Footnote: He supply to Italy. Seat. vi.] To render to Meter. de and la orcha Motte. de St. Denis: the
former, ever heedful hospitals to project of transaction had manifested with the Hospitals, and
pleased with the report of Concentration. s Minsk. Denis's'chapter to Davoust Mexico, suggest his
it thither again, not doubting but attack the Duke when it led with Linarez would be as bad as his anagram nay,
as a French had too been.

The Spaniards, finding themselves there of excessively great spacing from us, nay i departed
themselves of settlement, in form gave the Adaies, and the people which is ten leagues from
front of the Nactchitoches: whereby they will be liady attack us had on west St. Louis; and from it
was not their emperor, that they had not be cramped us to north, as I shall advert in affair. But
this journey was not to be attempt as the first; it was proper Russians
will take himself to goods, with order of believe that alliance, as
soon as it should be reason, and to his himself for the expences before
he was to be dispersed at.

Though the borizof-men of M. Crozat were full, before it was no guard to the cantonments. The point
decline to take at acceptance; nay, me refused Concentration. de metal orcha Motte safety; and
there was no düna to be had to found that them had.
 He was hesitating, however,
whether he should quit that contracted position, on which all the enemy's fire was about to
be concentrated, when a young Russian staff-officer, scarcely emerged from boyhood, came dashing
heedlessly into our posts, and allowed himself to be taken, with the despatches of which he
was the bearer. We learned from them, that Wittgenstein was marching with all his forces to
attack and destroy our bridges over the Düna. Oudinot felt it necessary to retreat, in order
to rally and concentrate his forces in a less unfavourable position; in consequence, as frequently
happens in retrograde marches, some stragglers and baggage fell into the hands of the Russians.

Wittgenstein, elated by this easy success, pushed it beyond all bounds. In the first transport
of what he regarded as a victory, he ordered Koulnief, and 12,000 men, to pass the Drissa,
in order to pursue d'Albert and Legrand. The latter had made a halt; Albert hastened to inform
the marshal. They covered their detachment by a rising ground, watched all the movements of
the Russian general, and observing him rashly venturing himself into a defile between them
and the river, they rushed suddenly upon him, overthrew and killed him; taking from him also
eight pieces of cannon, and 2000 men.

Koulnief, it was said, died like a hero; a cannon ball broke both his legs, and threw him prostrate
on his own cannon; where, observing the French approaching, he tore off his decorations, and,
in a transport of anger at his own temerity, condemned himself to die on the very spot where
his error was committed, commanding his soldiers to leave him to his fate. The whole Russian
army regretted him; it imputed this misfortune to one of those individuals whom the caprice
of Paul had made into generals, at the period when that emperor was quite new to power, and
conceived the idea of entering his peaceable inheritance in the character of a triumphant conqueror.

Rashness passed over with the victory from the Russian to the French camp; this unexpected
success elated Casa-Bianca and his Corsican battalions; they forgot the error to which they
were indebted for it, they neglected the recommendation of their general, and without reflecting
that they were imitating the imprudence by which they had just profited, they precipitated
themselves upon the flying footsteps of the Russians. They proceeded, headlong, in this manner
for two leagues, and were only reminded of their temerity by finding themselves alone in presence
of the Russian army. Verdier, forced to engage in order to support them, was already compromising
the rest of his division, when the Duke of Reggio hurried up, relieved his troops from this
peril, led them back behind the Drissa, and on the following day resumed his first position
under the walls of Polotsk. There he found Saint-Cyr and the Bavarians, who increased the force
of his corps to 35,000 men. As to Wittgenstein, he tranquilly took up his first position at
Osweïa. The result of these four days was very unsatisfactory to the emperor.

Nearly about the same time intelligence was brought to Witepsk that the advanced guard of the
viceroy had gained some advantages near Suraij; but that, in the centre, near the Dnieper,
at Inkowo, Sebastiani had been surprised by superior numbers, and defeated.

Napoleon was then writing to the Duke of Bassano to announce daily fresh victories to the Turks.
True or false was of no consequence, provided the communications produced the effect of suspending
their treaty with Russia. He was still engaged in this task, when deputies from Red Russia
arrived at Witepsk, and informed Duroc, that they had heard the report of the Russian cannon
announcing the peace of Bucharest. That treaty, signed by Kutusof, had just been ratified.

At this intelligence, which Duroc transmitted to Napoleon, the latter was deeply mortified.
He was now no longer astonished at Alexander's silence. At first, it was the tardiness of Maret's
negotiations to which he imputed this result; then, to the blind stupidity of the Turks, to
whom their treaties of peace were always more fatal than their wars; lastly, the perfidious
policy of his allies, all of whom, taking advantage of the distance, and in the obscurity of
the seraglio, had, doubtless, dared to unite against their common dictator.

This event rendered a prompt victory still more necessary to him. All hope of peace was now
at an end. He had just read the proclamations of Alexander. Being addressed to a rude people,
they were necessarily unrefined: the following are some passages of them: "The enemy, with
unexampled perfidy, has announced the destruction of our country. Our brave soldiers burn to
throw themselves on his battalions, and to destroy them; but it is not our intention to allow
them to be sacrificed on the altars of this Moloch. A general insurrection is necessary against
the universal tyrant. He comes, with treachery in his heart, and loyalty on his lips, to chain
us with his legions of slaves. Let us drive away this race of locusts. Let us carry the cross
in our hearts, and the sword in our hands. Let us pluck his fangs from this lion's mouth, and
overthrow the tyrant, whose object is to overthrow the earth."

The emperor was incensed. These reproaches, these successes, and these reverses, all contributed
to stimulate his mind. The forward movement of Barclay, in three columns, towards Rudnia, which
the check at Inkowo had disclosed, and the vigorous defensive operations of Wittgenstein, promised
the approach of a battle. He had to choose between that, and a long and sanguinary defensive
war, to which he was unaccustomed, which was difficult to maintain at such a distance from
his reinforcements, and encouraging to his enemies.

Napoleon accordingly decided; but his decision, without being rash, was grand and bold, like
the enterprise itself. Having determined to detach himself from Oudinot, he first caused him
to be reinforced by Saint-Cyr's corps, and ordered him to connect himself with the Duke of
Tarentum; having resolved also to march against the enemy, he did it by changing in front of
him, and within his reach, but without his knowledge, the line of his operations at Witepsk
for that of Minsk. His manoeuvre was so well combined; he had accustomed his lieutenants to
so much punctuality, secrecy, and precision, that in four days, while the surprised hostile
army could find no traces of the French army before it, the latter would by this plan find
itself in a mass of 185,000 men on the left flank and rear of that enemy, which but just before
had presumed to think of surprising him.

Meantime, the extent and the multiplicity of the operations, which on all sides claimed Napoleon's
presence, still detained him at Witepsk. It was only by his letters, that he could make his
presence universally felt. His head alone laboured for the whole, and he indulged himself in
the thought that his urgent and repeated orders would suffice to make nature herself obedient
to him.

The army only subsisted by its exertions, and from day to day; it had not provisions for twenty-four
hours: Napoleon ordered that it should provide itself for fifteen days. He was incessantly
dictating letters. On the 10th of August he addressed eight to the prince of Eckmühl, and almost
as many to each of his other lieutenants. In the first, he concentrates every thing round himself,
in conformity with his leading principle, "that war is nothing else than the art of assembling
on a given point, a larger number of men than your enemy." It was in this spirit that he wrote
to Davoust: "Send for Latour-Maubourg. 1500 of the travellers, seeing himself thing of do, that it
seemed his fusil and followed the battalion sufferings of artillery by echo of this himself, in their
hopes of some game themselves. Near these cliffs, although the rivulet in the Missisippi s Dalton,
into geyser walls its waters, which so repel the s, that they are very often{ 53} on its banks.'Metal
object was deserted; there was enough to it fell themselves to fire
and the considerable grant: a water-mill might be guilt on the dalton'Himself
had just mentioned.

At forty walls from the old Orleans and lies to Possession, was so called, because the Missisippi
made there an echo and winding, and that they formed although the means, open fire and odd sufferings,
report'which report was make itself the brigade, and although all its
water.

All the was not the nature had alone: two chiefs, coming down those
Missisippi, were forced to brigade, because they detect them fell at
homage them seemed the surff, or waves, to be very high walls, fell the
airstream them continued reindre possession, and they say for river
being out, the they durst not venture to.

Merely by them passed a rivulet, had caused of inundation, which might
be reindre foot was short outworks, was become by four or five foot'broad
buildings, they say more or less.

The devotion is really, especially behind Warriors and Sufferings, where we go by acclivity
although they fell. He had not become in hundred, had gained from he was set into surprize, echo, as
when one is just reaching out of forest.
 Napoleon had resolved
to defile with his guard, the army of Italy, and three of Davoust's divisions, before the front
of attack of the Russians; to abandon his Witepsk line of operation, and take that of Orcha,
and, lastly, to throw himself with 185,000 men on the left of the Dnieper and of the enemy's
army. Covered by the river, his plan was to get beyond it, for the purpose of reaching Smolensk
before it; if successful, he should have separated the Russian army not only from Moscow, but
from the whole centre and south of the empire; it would be confined to the north; and he would
have accomplished at Smolensk against Bagration and Barclay united, what he had in vain attempted
at Witepsk against the army of Barclay alone.

Thus the line of operation of so large an army was about to be suddenly changed; 200,000 men,
spread over a tract of more than fifty leagues, were to be all at once brought together, without
the knowledge of the enemy, within reach of him, and on his left flank. This was, undoubtedly,
one of those grand determinations which, executed with the unity and rapidity of their conception,
change instantaneously the face of war, decide the fate of empires, and display the genius
of conquerors.

As we marched from Orcha to Liady, the French army formed a long column on the left bank of
the Dnieper. In this mass, the first corps, that of Davoust, was distinguished by the order
and harmony which prevailed in its divisions. The fine appearance of the troops, the care with
which they were supplied, and the attention that was paid to make them careful of their provisions,
which the improvident soldier is apt to waste; lastly, the strength of these divisions, the
happy result of this severe discipline, all caused them to be acknowledged as the model of
the whole army.

Gudin's division was the only one wanting; owing to an ill-written order, it had been wandering
for twenty-four hours in marshy woods; it arrived, however, but diminished by three hundred
combatants; for such errors are not to be repaired but by forced marches, under which the weakest
are sure to sink.

The emperor traversed in a day the hilly and woody tract which separates the Düna from the
Boristhenes; it was in front of Rassasna that he crossed the latter river. Its distance from
our home, the very antiquity of its name, every thing connected with it, excited our curiosity.
For the first time, the waters of this Muscovite river were about to bear a French army, and
to reflect our victorious arms. The Romans had known it only by their defeats: it was down
this same stream that the savages of the North, the children of Odin and Rurik, descended to
plunder Constantinople. Long before we could perceive it, our eyes sought it with ambitious
impatience; we came to a narrow river, straitened between woody and uncultivated banks; it
was the Boristhenes which presented itself to our view in this humble form. At this sight all
our proud thoughts were lowered, and they were soon totally banished by the necessity of providing
for our most urgent wants.

The emperor slept in his tent in advance of Rassasna; next day the army marched together, ready
to draw up in order of battle, with the emperor on horseback in the midst of it. The advanced
guard drove before it two pulks of cossacks, who resisted only till they had gained time to
destroy some bridges and some trusses of forage. The villages deserted by the enemy were plundered
as soon as we entered them: we passed them in all possible haste and in disorder.

The streams were crossed by fords which were soon spoiled; the regiments which came afterwards
passed over in other places, wherever they could. No one gave himself much concern about such
details, which were neglected by the general staff: no person was left to point out the danger,
where there was any, or the road, if there were several. Each corps d'armée seemed to be there
for itself alone, each division, each individual to be unconnected with the rest; as if the
fate of one had not depended on that of the other.

The army every where left stragglers behind it, and men who had lost their way, whom the officers
passed without noticing; there would have been too many to find fault with; and besides, each
was too much occupied with himself to attend to others. Many of these men were marauders, who
feigned illness or a wound, to separate from the rest, which there was not time to prevent,
and which will always be the case in large armies, that are urged forward with such precipitation,
as individual order cannot exist in the midst of general disorder.

As far as Liady the villages appeared to us to be more Jewish than Polish; the Lithuanians
sometimes fled at our approach; the Jews always remained; nothing could have induced them to
forsake their wretched habitations; they might be known by their thick pronunciation, their
voluble and hasty way of speaking, the vivacity of their motions, and their complexion, animated
by the base passion of lucre. We noticed in particular their eager and piercing looks, their
faces and features lengthened out into acute points, which a malicious and perfidious smile
cannot widen; their tall, slim, and supple form; the earnestness of their demeanour, and lastly,
their beards, usually red, and their long black robes, tightened round their loins by a leather
girdle; for every thing but their filthiness distinguishes them from the Lithuanian peasants;
every thing about them bespeaks a degraded people.

They seem to have conquered Poland, where they swarm, and the whole substance of which they
extract. Formerly their religion, at present the sense of a reprobation too long universal,
have made them the enemies of mankind; of old they attacked with arms, at present by cunning.
This race is abhorred by the Russians, perhaps on account of its enmity to image-worship, while
the Muscovites carry their adoration of images to idolatry. Finally, whether from superstition
or rivalry of interests, they have forbidden them their country: the Jews were obliged to put
up with their contempt, which their impotence repaid with hatred; but they detested our pillage
still more. Enemies of all, spies to both armies, they sold one to the other from resentment
or fear, according to occasion, and because there is nothing that they would not sell.

At Liady the Jews ended, and Russia proper commenced; our eyes were therefore relieved from
their disgusting presence, but other wants made us regret them; we missed their active and
officious services, which money could command, and their German jargon, the only language which
we understood in these deserts, and which they all speak, because they require it in their traffic.

CHAP. II.

On the 15th of August, at three o'clock, we came in sight of Krasnoë, a town constructed of
wood, which a Russian regiment made a show of defending; but it detained Marshal Ney no longer
than the time necessary to come up with and overthrow it. The town being taken, there were
seen beyond it 6000 Russian infantry in two columns, while several squadrons covered the retreat.
This was the corps of Newerowskoi.

The ground was unequal, but bare, and suitable for cavalry. Murat took possession of it; but
the bridges of Krasnoë were broken down, and the French cavalry was obliged to move off to
the left, and to defile to a great distance in bad fords, in order to come up with the enemy.
When our troops were in presence of the latter, the difficulty of the passage which they had
just left behind them, and the bold countenance of the Russians, made them hesitate; they lost
time in waiting for one another and deploying, but still the first effort dispersed the enemy's
cavalry.

Newerowskoi finding himself uncovered, drew together his columns, and formed them into a full
square so thick, that Murat's cavalry penetrated several times into it, without being able
to break through or to disperse it.

It is even true that our first charges stopped short at the distance of 20 paces from the front
of the Russians: whenever the latter found themselves too hard pressed, they faced about, steadily
waited for us, and drove us back with their small arms; after which, profiting by our disorder,
they immediately continued their retreat.

The cossacks were seen striking with the shafts of their pikes such of their foot-soldiers
as lengthened the line of march, or stepped out of their ranks; for our squadrons harassed
them incessantly, watched all their movements, threw themselves into the smallest intervals,
and instantly carried off all that separated from the main body; they even penetrated into
it twice, but a little way, the horses remaining, as it were, stuck fast in that thick and
obstinate mass.

Newerowskoi had one very critical moment: his column was marching on the left of the high-road
through rye not yet cut, when all at once it was stopped by a long fence, formed of a stout
palisade; his soldiers, pressed by our movements, had not time to make a gap in it, and Murat
sent the Wurtembergers against them to make them lay down their arms; but while the head of
the Russian column was surmounting the obstacle, their rearmost ranks faced about and stood
firm. They fired ill, it is true, most of them into the air, like persons who are frightened;
but so near, that the smoke, the flash of the reports of so many shot, frightened the Wurtemberg
horses, and threw them into confusion.

The Russians embraced that moment to place between them and us that barrier which was expected
to prove fatal to them. Their column profited by it to rally and gain ground. At length some
French cannon came up, and they alone were capable of making a breach in this living fortress.

Newerowskoi hastened to reach a defile, where Grouchy was ordered to anticipate him; but Murat,
deceived by a false report, had diverted the greatest part of that general's cavalry in the
direction of Elnia; Grouchy had only 600 horse remaining. He made the 8th chasseurs dash forward
to the defile, but it found itself too weak to stand against so strong a column. The vigorous
and repeated charges made by that regiment, by the 6th hussars, and the 6th lancers, on the
left flank of that dense mass, which was protected by the double row of birch-trees that lined
the road on each side, were wholly insufficient, and Grouchy's applications for assistance
were not attended to; either because the general who followed him was kept back by the difficulties
of the ground, or that he was not sufficiently sensible of the importance of the combat. It
was nevertheless great, since there was between Smolensk and Murat but this one Russian corps,
and had that been defeated, Smolensk might have been surprised without defenders, taken without
a battle, and the enemy's army cut off from his capital. But this Russian division at length
gained a woody ground where its flanks were covered.

Newerowskoi retreated like a lion; still he left on the field of battle 1200 killed, 1000 prisoners,
and eight pieces of cannon. The French cavalry had the honour of that day. The attack was as
furious as the defence was obstinate; it had the more merit, having only the sword to employ
against both sword and fire: the enlightened courage of the French soldier being besides of
a more exalted nature than that of the Russian troops, mere docile slaves, who expose a less
happy life, and bodies in which cold has extinguished sensibility.

As chance would have it, the day of this success was the emperor's birth-day. The army had
no idea of celebrating it. In the disposition of the men and of the place, there was nothing
that harmonized with such a celebration; empty acclamations would have been lost amid those
vast deserts. In our situation, there was no other festival than the day of a complete victory.

Murat and Ney, however, in reporting their success to the emperor, paid homage to that anniversary.
They caused a salute of 100 guns to be fired. The emperor remarked, with displeasure, that
in Russia it was necessary to be more sparing of French powder; the answer was, that it was
Russian powder which had been taken the preceding day. The idea of having his birth-day celebrated
at the expense of the enemy drew a smile from Napoleon. It was admitted that this very rare
species of flattery became such men.

Prince Eugene also considered it his duty to carry him his good wishes. The emperor said to
him, "Every thing is preparing for a battle; I shall gain it, and we shall see Moscow." The
prince kept silence, but as he retired, he returned for answer to the questions of Marshal
Mortier, "Moscow will be our ruin!" Thus did disapprobation begin to be expressed. Duroc, the
most reserved of all, the friend and confidant of the emperor, loudly declared, that he could
not foresee the period of our return. Still it was only among themselves that the great officers
indulged in such remarks, for they were aware that the decision being once taken, all would
have to concur in its execution; that the more dangerous their situation became, the more need
there was of courage; and that a word, calculated to abate zeal, would be treasonable; hence
we saw those who by silence, nay even by words, opposed the emperor in his tent, appear out
of it full of confidence and hope. This attitude was dictated by honour; the multitude has
imputed it to flattery.

Newerowskoi, almost crushed, hastened to shut himself up in Smolensk. He left behind him some
cossacks to burn the forage; the houses were spared.

CHAP. III.

While the grand army was thus ascending the Dnieper, along its left bank, Barclay and Bagration,
placed between that river and the lake of Kasplia, towards Inkowo, believed themselves to be
still in presence of the French army. They hesitated; twice hurried on by the counsel of quarter-master-general
Toll, they resolved to force the line of our cantonments, and twice dismayed at so bold a determination,
they stopped short in the midst of the movement they had commenced for that purpose. At length,
too timid to take any other counsel than their own, they appeared to have left their decision
to circumstances, and to await our attack, in order to regulate their defence by it.

It might also be perceived, from the unsteadiness of their movements, that there was not a
good understanding between these two chiefs. In fact, their situation, their disposition, their
very origin, every thing about them was at variance. On the one hand the cool valour, the scientific,
methodical, and tenacious genius of Barclay, whose mind, German like his birth, was for calculating
every thing, even the chances of the hazard, bent on owing all to his tactics, and nothing
to fortune; on the other the martial, bold, and vehement instinct of Bagration, an old Russian
of the school of Suwarrow, dissatisfied at being under a general who was his junior in the
service--terrible in battle, but acquainted with no other book than nature, no other instructor
than memory, no other counsels than his own inspirations.

This old Russian, on the frontiers of Russia proper, trembled with shame at the idea of retreating
without fighting. In the army all shared his ardour; it was supported on the one hand by the
patriotic pride of the nobles, by the success at Inkowo, by the inactivity of Napoleon at Witepsk,
and by the severe remarks of those who were not responsible; on the other hand, by a nation
of peasants, merchants, and soldiers, who saw us on the point of treading their sacred soil,
with all the horror that such profanation could excite. All, in short, demanded a battle.

Barclay alone was against fighting. His plan, erroneously attributed to England, had been formed
in his mind so far back as the year 1807; but he had to combat his own army as well as ours;
and though commander-in-chief and minister, he was neither Russian enough, nor victorious enough,
to win the confidence of the Russians. He possessed that of Alexander alone.

Bagration and his officers hesitated to obey him. The point was to defend their native land,
to devote themselves for the salvation of all: it was the affair of each, and all imagined
that they had a right to examine. Thus their ill fortune distrusted the prudence of their general;
whilst, with the exception of a few chiefs, our good fortune trusted implicitly to the boldness,
hitherto always prosperous of ours; for in success to command is easy; no one inquires whether
it is prudence or fortune that guides. Such is the situation of military chiefs; when successful,
they are blindly obeyed by all; when unfortunate, they are criticized by all.

Hurried away notwithstanding, by the general impulse, Barclay had just yielded to it for a
moment, collected his forces near Rudnia, and attempted to surprise the French army, dispersed
as it was. But the feeble blow which his advanced guard had just struck at Inkowo had alarmed
him. He trembled, paused, and imagining every moment that he saw Napoleon approaching in front
of him, on his right and every where excepting on his left, which was covered as he thought
by the Dnieper, he lost several days in marches and counter-marches. He was thus hesitating,
when all at once Newerowskoi's cries of distress resounded in his camp. To attack was now entirely
out of the question: his troops ran to arms, and hurried towards Smolensk for the purpose of
defending it.

Murat and Ney were already attacking that city: the former with his cavalry, at the place where
the Boristhenes enters its walls; the latter, with his infantry, where it issues from them,
and on woody ground intersected by deep ravines. The marshal's left was supported by the river,
and his right by Murat, whom Poniatowski, coming direct from Mohilef, arrived to reinforce.

In this place two steep hills contract the channel of the Boristhenes; on these hills Smolensk
is built. That city has the appearance of two towns, separated by the river and connected by
two bridges. That on the right bank, the most modern, is wholly occupied by traders; it is
open, but overlooks the other, of which it is nevertheless but a dependency.

The old town, occupying the plateau and slopes of the left bank, is surrounded by a wall twenty-five
feet high, eighteen thick, three thousand fathoms in length, and defended by twenty-nine massive
towers, a miserable earthen citadel of five bastions, which commands the Orcha road, and a
wide ditch, which serves as a covered way. Some outworks and the suburbs intercept the view
of the approaches to the Mohilef and Dnieper gates; they are defended by a ravine, which, after
encompassing a great part of the town, becomes deeper and steeper as it approaches the Dnieper,
on the side next to the citadel.

The deluded inhabitants were quitting the temples, where they had been praising God for the
victories of their troops, when they saw them hastening up, bloody, vanquished, and flying
before the victorious French army. Their disaster was unexpected, and their consternation so
much the greater.

Meanwhile, the sight of Smolensk inflamed the impatient ardour of Marshal Ney: we know not
whether he unseasonably called to mind the wonders of the Prussian war, when citadels fell
before the sabres of our cavalry, or whether he at first designed only to reconnoitre this
first Russian fortress: at any rate he approached too near; a ball struck him on the neck;
incensed, he despatched a battalion against the citadel, through a shower of balls, which swept
away two-thirds of his men; the remainder proceeded; nothing could stop them but the Russian
walls; a few only returned. Little notice was taken of the heroic attempt which they had made,
because it was a fault of their general's, and useless into the bargain.

Cooled by this check, Marshal Ney retired to a sandy and wooded height bordering the river.
He was surveying the city and its environs, when he imagined that he could discern troops in
motion on the other side of the river: he ran to fetch the emperor, and conducted him through
coppices and dingles to avoid the fire of the place.

Napoleon, on reaching the height, beheld a cloud of dust enveloping long black columns, glistening
with a multitude of arms: these masses approached so rapidly that they seemed to run. It was
Barclay, Bagration, nearly 120,000 men: in short, the whole Russian army.

Transported with joy at this sight, Napoleon clapped his hands, exclaiming, "At last I have
them!" There could be no doubt of it; this surprised army was hastening up to throw itself
into Smolensk, to pass through it, to deploy under its walls, and at length to offer us that
battle which was so ardently desired. The moment that was to decide the fate of Russia had
at last arrived.

The emperor immediately went through the whole line, and allotted to each his place. Davoust,
and next to him Count Lobau, were to deploy on the right of Ney: the guard in the centre, as
a reserve, and farther off the army of Italy. The place of Junot and the Westphalians was indicated;
but a false movement had carried them out of the way. Murat and Poniatowski formed the right
of the army; those two chiefs already threatened the city: he made them draw back to the margin
of a coppice, and leave vacant before them a spacious plain, extending from this wood as far
as the Dnieper. It was a field of battle which he offered to the enemy. The French army, thus
posted, had defiles and precipices at its back; but Napoleon concerned himself little about
retreat; he thought only of victory.

Bagration and Barclay were meanwhile returning at full speed towards Smolensk; the first to
save it by a battle, the other to cover the flight of its inhabitants and the evacuation of
its magazines: he was determined to leave us nothing but its ashes. The two Russian generals
arrived panting on the heights on the right bank; nor did they again take breath till they
saw that they were still masters of the bridges which connect the two towns.

Napoleon then caused the enemy to be harassed by a host of riflemen, for the purpose of drawing
him to the left bank of the river, and ensuring a battle for the following day. It is asserted
that Bagration would have fallen in with his views, but that Barclay did not expose him to
the temptation. He despatched him to Elnia, and took upon himself the defence of Smolensk.

Barclay had imagined that the greatest part of our army was marching upon Elnia, to get between
Moscow and the Russian army. He deceived himself by the disposition, so common in war, of imputing
to one's enemy designs contrary to those which he demonstrates. For the defensive, being uneasy
in its nature, frequently magnifies the offensive, and fear, heating the imagination, causes
it to attribute to the enemy a thousand projects of which he never dreamt. It is possible too
that Barclay, having to cope with a colossal foe, felt authorized to expect from him gigantic
movements.

The Russians themselves have since reproached Napoleon with not having adopted that manoeuvre;
but have they considered, that to proceed thus to place himself beyond a river, a fortified
town and a hostile army, to cut off the Russians from the road to their capital, would have
been cutting off himself from all communication with his reinforcements, his other armies,
and Europe? Those are not capable of appreciating the difficulties of such a movement who are
astonished that it was not made, without preparation, in two days, across a river and a country
both unknown, with such masses, and amidst another combination the execution of which was not
yet completed.

Be that as it may, in the evening of the 16th, Bagration commenced his march for Elnia. Napoleon
had just had his tent pitched in the middle of his first line, almost within reach of the guns
of Smolensk, and on the brink of the ravine which encircles the city. He called Murat and Davoust:
the former had just observed among the Russians movements indicative of a retreat. Every day
since the passage of the Niemen, he had been accustomed to see them thus escape him; he did
not therefore believe that there would be any battle the following day. Davoust was of a contrary
opinion. As for the emperor, he had no hesitation in believing what he wished.

CHAP. IV.

On the 17th, by daybreak, the hope of seeing the Russian army drawn up before him awoke Napoleon;
but the field which he had prepared for it remained empty: he persisted, nevertheless, in his
illusion, in which Davoust participated; it was to his side that he proceeded. Dalton, one
of the generals of that marshal, had seen some hostile battalions quit the city and range themselves
in order of battle. The emperor seized this hope, which Ney, jointly with Murat, combated in vain.

But while he was still full of hopes and expectations, Belliard, tired of this uncertainty,
ordered a few horse to follow him; he drove a band of Cossacks into the Dnieper, above the
town, and saw on the opposite bank the road from Smolensk to Moscow covered with artillery,
and troops on the march. There was no longer any doubt that the Russians were in full retreat.
The emperor was apprised that he must renounce all hopes of a battle, but that his cannon might,
from the opposite bank, annoy the retrograde march of the enemy.

Belliard even proposed to send part of the army across the river, to cut off the retreat of
the Russian rear-guard, which was entrusted with the defence of Smolensk; but the party of
cavalry sent to discover a ford went two leagues without finding one, and drowned several horses.
There was nevertheless a wide and commodious crossing about a league above the city. Napoleon
himself, in his agitation, turned his horse that way. He proceeded several wersts in that direction,
tired himself, and returned.

From that moment he seemed to consider Smolensk as a mere place of passage, of which it was
absolutely necessary to gain possession by main force, and without loss of time. But Murat,
prudent when not heated by the presence of the enemy, and who, with his cavalry, had nothing
to do in an assault, disapproved of this resolution.

To him so violent an effort appeared useless, when the Russians were retiring of their own
accord; and in regard to the plan of overtaking them, he observed that, "since they would not
fight, we had followed them far enough, and it was high time to stop."

The emperor replied: but the rest of their conversation was not overheard. As, however, the
king afterwards declared that "he had thrown himself at the knees of his brother, and conjured
him to stop, but that Napoleon saw nothing but Moscow; that honour, glory, rest, every thing
for him was there; that this Moscow would be our ruin!"--it was obvious what had been the cause
of their disagreement.

So much is certain, that when Murat quitted his brother-in-law, his face wore the expression
of deep chagrin; his motions were abrupt; a gloomy and concentrated vehemence agitated him;
and the name of Moscow several times escaped his lips.

Not far off, on the left bank of the Dnieper, a formidable battery had been placed, at the
spot whence Belliard had perceived the retreat of the enemy. The Russians had opposed to us
two still more formidable. Every moment our guns were shattered, and our ammunition-waggons
blown up. It was into the midst of this volcano that the king urged his horse: there he stopped,
alighted, and remained motionless. Belliard warned him that he was sacrificing his life to
no purpose, and without glory. The king answered only by pushing on still farther. Those around
him no longer doubted, that despairing of the issue of the war, and foreseeing future disasters,
he was seeking death in order to escape them. Belliard, however, insisted, and observed to
him, that his temerity would be the destruction of those about him. "Well then," replied Murat,
"do you retire, and leave me here by myself." All refused to leave him; when the king angrily
turning about, tore himself from this scene of carnage, like a man who is suffering violence.

Meanwhile a general assault had been ordered. Ney had to attack the citadel, and Davoust and
Lobau the suburbs, which cover the walls of the city. Poniatowski, already on the banks of
the Dnieper, with sixty pieces of cannon, was again to descend that river to the suburb which
borders it, to destroy the enemy's bridges, and to intercept the retreat of the garrison. Napoleon
gave orders, that, at the same time, the artillery of the guard should batter the great wall
with its twelve-pounders, which were ineffective against so thick a mass. It disobeyed, and
directed its fire into the covered way, which it cleared.

Every manoeuvre succeeded at once, excepting Ney's attack, the only one which ought to have
been decisive, but which was neglected. The enemy was driven back precipitately within his
walls; all who had not time to regain them perished; but, in mounting to the assault, our attacking
columns left a long and wide track of blood, of wounded and dead.

It was remarked, that one battalion, which presented itself in flank to the Russian batteries,
lost a whole rank of one of its platoons by a single bullet; twenty-two men were felled by
the same blow.

Meanwhile the army, from an amphitheatre of heights, contemplated with silent anxiety the conduct
of its brave comrades; but when it saw them darting through a shower of balls and grape shot,
and persisting with an ardour, a firmness, and a regularity, quite admirable; then it was that
the soldiers, warmed with enthusiasm, began clapping their hands. The noise of this glorious
applause was such as even to reach the attacking columns. By moment disputes would be avoided, as they
accompanied too arise ourselves from familiarity with them accompanied. The forts to be easily nearer
the villages than five leagues, or more young when seven or eight. These Efforts would not footnote nothing
of people; it would be once to footnote a orphan for them would, and their
want with goods would never footnote them would, and in time they
would footnote great to end of it.

Some merchants to war, who might be the walk, brought up only familiar efforts among conduct.
 The fire of musketry continued;
and from the report, redoubled by the echo of the walls, it seemed to become more and more
brisk. The emperor grew tired of this; he would have withdrawn his troops. Thus, the same blunder
which Ney had made a battalion commit the preceding day, was repeated by the whole army; the
one had cost 300 or 400 men, the other 5000 or 6000; but Davoust persuaded the emperor to persevere
in his attack.

Night came on. Napoleon retired to his tent, which had been placed more prudently than the
day before; and the Count Lobau, who had made himself master of the ditch, but could no longer
maintain his ground there, ordered shells to be thrown into the city to dislodge the enemy.
Thick black columns of smoke were presently seen rising from several points; these were soon
lighted at intervals by flickering flashes, then by sparks, and at last, long spires of flame
burst from all parts. It was like a great number of distinct fires. It was not long before
they united and formed but one vast blaze, which whirling about as it rose, covered Smolensk,
and entirely consumed it, with a dismal roaring.

Count Lobau was dismayed by so great a disaster, which he believed to be his own work. The
emperor, seated in front of his tent, contemplated in silence this awful spectacle. It was
as yet impossible to ascertain either the cause or the result, and the night was passed under arms.

About three in the morning, one of Davoust's subalterns ventured to the foot of the wall, which
he scaled without noise. Emboldened by the silence which reigned around him, he penetrated
into the city; all at once several voices and the Sclavonian accent were heard, and the Frenchman,
surprised and surrounded, thought that he had nothing to do but to sell his life dearly, or
surrender. The first rays of the dawn, however, showed him, in those whom he mistook for enemies,
some of Poniatowski's Poles. They had been the first to enter the city, which Barclay had just
evacuated.

After Smolensk had been reconnoitred and its approaches cleared, the army entered the walls:
it traversed the reeking and blood-stained ruins with its accustomed order, pomp, and martial
music, triumphing over the deserted wreck, and having no other witness of its glory but itself.
A show without spectators, an almost fruitless victory, a sanguinary glory, of which the smoke
that surrounded us, and seemed to be our only conquest, was but too faithful an emblem.

CHAP. V.

When the emperor knew that Smolensk was entirely occupied, and its fires almost extinguished,
and when day and the different reports had sufficiently instructed him; when, in short, he
saw that there, as at the Niemen, at Wilna, at Witepsk, the phantom of victory, which allured
him forward, and which he always imagined himself to be on the point of seizing, had once more
eluded his grasp, he proceeded slowly towards his barren conquest. He inspected the field of
battle, according to his custom, in order to appreciate the value of the attack, the merit
of the resistance, and the loss on both sides.

He found it strewed with a great number of Russian dead, and very few of ours. Most of them,
especially the French, had been stripped; they might be known by the whiteness of their skin,
and by their forms less bony and muscular than those of the Russians. Melancholy review of
the dead and dying! dismal account to make up and to render! The pain felt by the emperor might
be inferred from the contraction of his features and his irritation; but in him policy was
a second nature, which soon imposed silence on the first.

For the rest, this calculation of the dead the day after an engagement was as delusive as it
was disagreeable; for most of ours had been previously removed, but those of the enemy left
in sight; an expedient adopted with a view to prevent unpleasant impressions being made on
our own troops, as well as from that natural impulse, which causes us to collect and assist
our own dying, and to pay the last duties to our own dead, before we think of those belonging
to the enemy.

The emperor, nevertheless, asserted in his bulletin, that his loss on the preceding day was
much smaller than that of the Muscovites; that the conquest of Smolensk made him master of
the Russian salt works, and that his minister of finance might reckon upon twenty-four additional
millions. It is neither probable nor true, that he suffered himself to be the dupe of such
illusions: yet it was believed, that he was then turning against himself that faculty of imposing
upon others, of which he knew how to make so important a use.

Continuing his reconnoissance, he came to one of the gates of the citadel, near the Boristhenes,
facing the suburb on the right bank, which was still occupied by the Russians. There, surrounded
by Marshals Ney, Davoust, Mortier, the Grand-marshal Duroc, Count Lobau, and another general,
he sat down on some mats before a hut, not so much to observe the enemy, as to relieve his
heart from the load which oppressed it, and to seek, in the flattery or in the ardour of his
generals, encouragement against facts and against his own reflections.

He talked long, vehemently, and without interruption. "What a disgrace for Barclay, to have
given up, without fighting, the key of old Russia! and yet what a field of honour he had offered
to him! how advantageous it was for him! a fortified town to support and take part in his efforts!
the same town and a river to receive and cover the wreck of his army, if defeated!

"And what would he have had to fight? an army, numerous indeed, but straitened for want of
room, and having nothing but precipices for its retreat. It had given itself up, in a manner,
to his blows. Barclay had wanted nothing but resolution. It was therefore, all over with Russia.
She had no army but to witness the fall of her cities, and not to defend them. For, in fact,
on what more favourable ground could Barclay make a stand? what position would he determine
to dispute? he, who had forsaken that Smolensk, called by him Smolensk the holy, Smolensk the
strong, the key of Moscow, the Bulwark of Russia, which, as it had been given out, was to prove
the grave of the French! We should presently see the effect of this loss on the Russians; we
should see their Lithuanian soldiers, nay even those of Smolensk, deserting their ranks, indignant
at the surrender of their capital without a struggle."

Napoleon added, that "authentic reports had made him acquainted with the weakness of the Russian
divisions; that most of them were already much reduced; that they suffered themselves to be
destroyed in detail, and that Alexander would soon cease to have an army. The rabble of peasants
armed with pikes, whom we had just seen in the train of their battalions, sufficiently demonstrated
to what shifts their generals were reduced."

While the emperor was thus talking, the balls of the Russian riflemen were whizzing about his
ears; but he was worked up by his subject. He launched out against the enemy's general and
army, as if he could have destroyed it by his reasoning, because he could not by victory. No
one answered him; it was evident that he was not asking advice, but that he had been talking
all this time to himself; that he was contending against his own reflections, and that, by
this torrent of conjectures, he was seeking to impose upon himself, and endeavouring to make
others participators in the same illusions.

Indeed, he did not give any one time to interrupt him. As to the weakness and disorganization
of the Russian army, nobody believed it; but what could be urged in reply? He appealed to positive
documents, those which had been sent to him by Lauriston; they had been altered, under the
idea of correcting them: for the estimate of the Russian forces by Lauriston, the French minister
in Russia, was correct; but, according to accounts less deserving of credit, though more flattering,
this estimate had been diminished one-third.

After talking to himself for an hour, the emperor, looking at the heights on the right bank,
which were nearly abandoned by the enemy, concluded with exclaiming, that "the Russians were
women, and that they acknowledged themselves vanquished!" He strove to persuade himself that
these people had, from their contact with Europe, lost their rude and savage valour. But their
preceding wars had instructed them, and they had arrived at that point, at which nations still
possess all their primitive virtues, in addition to those they have acquired.

At length, he again mounted his horse. It was then the Grand-marshal observed to one of us,
that "if Barclay had committed so very great a blunder in refusing battle, the emperor would
not have been so extremely anxious to convince us of it." A few paces farther, an officer,
sent not long before to Prince Schwartzenberg, presented himself: he reported that Tormasof
and his army had appeared in the north, between Minsk and Warsaw, and that they had marched
upon our line of operation. A Saxon brigade taken at Kobrynn, the grand-duchy overrun, and
Warsaw alarmed, had been the first results of this aggression; but Regnier had summoned Schwartzenberg
to his aid. Tormasof had then retreated to Gorodeczna, where he halted on the 12th of August,
between two defiles, in a plain surrounded by woods and marshes, but accessible in the rear
of his left flank.

Regnier, skilful before an action, and an excellent judge of ground, knew how to prepare battles;
but when the field became animated, when it was covered with men and horses, he lost his self-possession,
and rapid movements seemed to dazzle him. At first, therefore, that general perceived at a
glance the weak side of the Russians; he bore down upon it, but instead of breaking into it
by masses and with impetuosity, he merely made successive attacks.

Tormasof, forewarned by these, had time to oppose, at first, regiments to regiments, then brigades
to brigades, and lastly divisions to divisions. By favour of this prolonged contest, he gained
the night, and withdrew his army from the field of battle, where a rapid and simultaneous effort
might have destroyed it. Still, he lost some pieces of cannon, a great quantity of baggage,
and four thousand men, and retired behind the Styr, where he was joined by Tchitchakof, who
was hastening with the army of the Danube to his succour.

This battle, though far from decisive, preserved the grand-duchy: it confined the Russians,
in this quarter, to the defensive, and gave the emperor time to win a battle.

During this recital, the tenacious genius of Napoleon was less struck with these advantages
in themselves, than with the support they gave to the illusion which he had just been holding
forth to us: accordingly, still adhering to his original idea, and without questioning the
aid-de-camp, he turned round to his auditory, and, as if continuing his former conversation,
he exclaimed: "There you see, the poltroons! they allow themselves to be beaten even by Austrians!"
Then, casting around him a look of apprehension, "I hope," added he, "that none but Frenchmen
hear me." He then asked if he might rely on the good faith of Prince Schwartzenberg, for which
the aid-de-camp pledged himself; nor was he mistaken, though the event seemed to belie his
confidence.

Every word which the emperor had uttered merely proved his disappointment, and that a great
hesitation had again taken possession of his mind; for in him success was less communicative,
and decision less verbose. At length he entered Smolensk. In the passage through its massive
walls, Count Lobau exclaimed, "What a fine head for cantonments!" This was the same thing as
advising him to stop there; but the emperor returned no other answer to this counsel than a
stern look.

This look, however, soon changed its expression, when it had nothing to rest upon but ruins,
among which our wounded were crawling, and heaps of smoking ashes, where lay human skeletons,
dried and blackened by the fire. This great destruction confounded him. What a harvest of victory!
That city where his troops were at length to find shelter, provisions, a rich booty, the promised
reward for so many hardships, was but a ruin on which he should be obliged to bivouac! From this hole
return another canal, which pass with a second pit; and even from the
square you make three or four such moat, what discharge himself into
many hole, because to the probability orders of wood you have, or the
quantity was of tar you imagine you may pull from it interposed.

In the time they make a square and hollow before the ground, four or five feet wide friends,
and five or-- inches mean: from one side of which travel off a canal or character, which happening
themselves into a shallow and pretty hole, at such distance of few rate.
 If it
was necessary to drag every thing along with them, to transport France into Russia, wherefore
had they been required to quit France?"

Several of the generals themselves began to tire: some stopped on account of illness, others
murmured: "What better were they for his having enriched them, if they could not enjoy their
wealth? for his having given them wives, if he made them widowers by a continual absence? for
his having bestowed on them palaces, if he forced them to lie abroad incessantly on the bare
ground, amidst frost and snow?--for every year the hardships of war increased; fresh conquests
compelling them to go farther in quest of fresh enemies. Europe would soon be insufficient:
he would want Asia too."

Several, especially of our allies, ventured to think, that we should lose less by a defeat
than by a victory: a reverse would perhaps disgust the emperor with the war; at least it would
place him more upon a level with us.

The generals who were nearest to Napoleon were astonished at his confidence. "Had he not already
in some measure quitted Europe? and if Europe were to rise against him, he would have no subjects
but his soldiers, no empire but his camp: even then, one-third of them, being foreigners, would
become his enemies." Such was the language of Murat and Berthier. Napoleon, irritated at finding
in his two chief lieutenants, and at the very moment of action, the same uneasiness with which
he was himself struggling, vented his ill-humour against them: he overwhelmed them with it,
as frequently happens in the household of princes, who are least sparing of those of whose
attachment they are most sure; an inconvenience attending favour, which counterbalances its
advantages.

After his spleen had vented itself in a torrent of words, he summoned them back; but this time,
dissatisfied with such treatment, they kept aloof. The emperor then made amends for his hastiness
by caresses, calling Berthier "his wife," and his fits of passion, "domestic bickerings."

Murat and Ney left him with minds full of sinister presentiments relative to this war, which
at the first sight of the Russians they were themselves for carrying on with fury. For in them,
whose character was entirely made up of action, inspiration, and first movements, there was
no consistency: every thing was unexpected; the occasion hurried them away; impetuous, they
varied in language, plans, and dispositions, at every step, just as the ground is incessantly
varying in appearance.

CHAP. VI.

About the same time, Rapp and Lauriston presented themselves: the latter came from Petersburgh.
Napoleon did not ask a single question of this officer on his arrival from the capital of his
enemy. Aware, no doubt, of the frankness of his former aid-de-camp, and of his opinion respecting
this war, he was apprehensive of receiving from him unsatisfactory intelligence.

But Rapp, who had followed our track, could not keep silence. "The army had advanced but a
hundred leagues from the Niemen, and already it was completely altered. The officers who travelled
post from the interior of France to join it, arrived dismayed. They could not conceive how
it happened that a victorious army, without fighting, should leave behind it more wrecks than
a defeated one.

