RIVERS OF ICE, BY R.M. BALLANTYNE.

CHAPTER ONE.

THE ROVER'S RETURN.

On a certain summer morning, about the middle of the present century, a big bluff man, of seafaring
aspect, found himself sauntering in a certain street near London Bridge.  He was a man of above
fifty, but looked under forty in consequence of the healthful vigour of his frame, the freshness
of his saltwater face, and the blackness of his shaggy hair.

Although his gait, pilot-cloth coat, and pocketed hands proclaimed him a sailor, there were
one or two contradictory points about him.  A huge beard and moustache savoured more of the
diggings than the deep, and a brown wide-awake with a prodigiously broad brim suggested the
backwoods.

Pausing at the head of one of those narrow lanes which--running down between warehouses, filthy
little rag and bone shops, and low poverty-stricken dwellings--appear to terminate their career,
not unwillingly, in the Thames, the sailor gazed before him with nautical earnestness for a
few seconds, then glanced at the corner house for a name; found no name; cast his eyes up to
the strip of blue sky overhead, as if for inspiration; obtained none; planted his legs wide
apart as if he had observed a squall coming, and expected the lane to lurch heavily--wrinkled
his eyebrows, and pursed his lips.

"Lost yer bearin's, capp'n?" exclaimed a shrill pert voice at his side.

The seaman looked down, and beheld a small boy with a head like a disorderly door-mat, and
garments to match.  He stood in what may be styled an imitative attitude, with his hands thrust
into his ragged pockets, his little legs planted wide apart, his cap thrust well back on his
head, and his eyebrows wrinkled.  He also pursed his lips to such an extent that they resembled
a rosebud in a dirty bush.

"Yes, imp," replied the seaman--he meant to have said "impudence," but stopped at the first
syllable as being sufficiently appropriate--"yes, imp, I have lost my bearings, and I'll give
you a copper if you'll help me to find 'em."

"Wot sort o' copper?" demanded the urchin, "there's three sorts of 'em, you know, in this 'ere
kingdom--which appears to be a queendom at present--there's a farding and a ha'penny and a
penny.  I mention it, capp'n," he added apologetically, "in case you don't know, for you look
as if you'd come from furrin parts."

The seaman's look of surprise melted into a broad grin of amusement while this speech was being
fluently delivered.  At its conclusion he pulled out a penny and held it up.

"Well, it ain't much," said the small boy, "and I ain't used to hire myself out so cheap. 
However, as you seem to be raither poorly off, I don't mind if I lend you a hand for that.
Only, please, don't mention it among your friends, as it would p'raps lower their opinion of
you, d'you see?  Now then w'ot d'you want to know?"

To this the "capp'n," still smiling at the small boy's precocious insolence, replied that he
was in search of an old woman who dwelt in a small court styled Grubb's Court, so he was told,
which lay somewhere in that salubrious neighbourhood, and asked if he, the imp, knew of such
a place.

"Know's of it?  I should think I does.  W'y, I lives there.  It's right down at the foot o'
this 'ere lane, an' a wery sweet 'ristocratik spot it is--quite a perninsular, bein' land,
leastwise mud, a'most surrounded by water, the air bein' 'ighly condoosive to the 'ealth of
rats, likewise cats.  As to old women, there's raither a broad sprinklin' of 'em in the court,
rangin' from the ages of seventy to a hundred an twenty, more or less, an' you'll take some
time to go over 'em all, capp'n, if you don't know your old woman's name."

"Her name is Roby--," said the seaman.

"O, Roby? ah," returned the small boy, looking sedately at the ground, "let me see--yes, that's
the name of the old 'ooman, I think, wot 'angs out in the cabin, right-'and stair, top floor,
end of the passage, w'ere most wisiters flattens their noses, by consekince of there bein'
no light, and a step close to the door which inwariably trips 'em up.  Most wisiters to that
old 'ooman begins their acquaintance with her by knocking at her door with their noses instead
of their knuckles.  We calls her place the cabin, 'cause the windows is raither small, and
over'angs the river."

"Well then, my lad," said the seaman, "clap a stopper on your tongue, if you can, and heave ahead."

"All right, capp'n," returned the small boy, "foller me, an' don't be frightened.  Port your
helm a bit here, there's a quicksand in the middle o' the track--so, steady!"

Avoiding a large pool of mud with which the head of the lane was garnished, and which might
have been styled the bathing, not to say wallowing, quarters of the Grubb's Court juveniles,
the small boy led the bluff seaman towards the river without further remark, diverging only
once from the straight road for a few seconds, for the purpose of making a furious rush at
a sleeping cat with a yell worthy of a Cherokee savage, or a locomotive whistle; a slight pleasantry
which had the double effect of shooting the cat through space in glaring convulsions, and filling
the small boy's mind with the placidity which naturally follows a great success.

The lane presented this peculiarity, that the warehouses on its left side became more and more
solid and vast and tall as they neared the river, while the shops and dwellings on its right
became poorer, meaner, and more diminutive in the same direction, as if there were some mysterious
connection between them, which involved the adversity of the one in exact proportion to the
prosperity of the other.  Children and cats appeared to be the chief day-population of the
place, and these disported themselves among the wheels of enormous waggons, and the legs of
elephantine horses with an impunity which could only have been the result of life-long experience.

The seaman was evidently unaccustomed to such scenes, for more than once during the short period
of his progress down the lane, he uttered an exclamation of alarm, and sprang to the rescue
of those large babies which are supposed to have grown sufficiently old to become nursing mothers
to smaller babies--acts which were viewed with a look of pity by the small boy, and called
from him the encouraging observations, "Keep your mind easy, capp'n; they're all right, bless
you; the hosses knows 'em, and wouldn't 'urt 'em on no account."

"This is Grubb's Court," said the boy, turning sharply to the right and passing through a low
archway.

"Thank 'ee, lad," said the seaman, giving him a sixpence.

The small boy opened his eyes very wide indeed, exclaiming, "Hallo!  I say, capp'n, wot's this?"
at the same time, however, putting the coin in his pocket with an air which plainly said, "Whether
you've made a mistake or not, you needn't expect to get it back again."

Evidently the seaman entertained no such expectations, for he turned away and became absorbed
in the scene around him.

It was not cheering.  Though the summer sun was high and powerful, it failed to touch the broken
pavement of Grubb's Court, or to dry up the moisture which oozed from it and crept up the walls
of the surrounding houses.  Everything was very old, very rotten, very crooked, and very dirty.
The doorways round the court were wide open--always open--in some cases, because of there being
no doors; in other cases, because the tenements to which they led belonged to a variety of
families, largely composed of children who could not, even on tiptoe, reach or manipulate door-handles.
Nursing mothers of two feet high were numerous, staggering about with nurslings of a foot and
a half long.  A few of the nurslings, temporarily abandoned by the premature mothers, lay sprawling--in
some cases squalling--on the moist pavement, getting over the ground like large snails, and
leaving slimy tracks behind them. Little boys, of the "City Arab" type, were sprinkled here
and there, and one or two old women sat on door-steps contemplating the scene, or conversing
with one or two younger women.  Some of the latter were busy washing garments so dirty, that
the dirty water of old Father Thames seemed quite a suitable purifier.

"Gillie," cried one of the younger women referred to, wiping the soap-suds from her red arms,
"come here, you bad, naughty boy.  W'ere 'ave you bin?  I want you to mind baby."

"W'y, mother," cried the small boy--who answered to the name of Gillie--"don't you see I'm
engaged?  I'm a-showin' this 'ere sea-capp'n the course he's got to steer for port.  He wants
to make the cabin of old mother Roby."

"W'y don't you do it quickly, then?" demanded Gillie's mother, "you bad, naughty, wicked boy.
Beg your parding, sir," she added, to the seaman, "the boy 'an't got no sense, besides bein'
wicked and naughty--'e ain't 'ad no train', sir, that's w'ere it is, all along of my 'avin'
too much to do, an' a large family, sir, with no 'usband to speak of; right up the stair, sir,
to the top, and along the passage-door straight before you at the hend of it.  Mind the step,
sir, w'en you gits up.  Go up with the gentleman, you bad, wicked, naughty boy, and show--"

The remainder of the sentence became confused in distance, as the boy and the seaman climbed
the stair; but a continuous murmuring sound, as of a vocal torrent, conveyed the assurance
that the mother of Gillie was still holding forth.

"'Ere it is," said the young pilot, pausing at the top of the staircase, near the entrance
to a very dark passage.  "Keep 'er 'ead as she goes, but I'd recommend you to shorten sail,
mind your 'elm, an 'ave the anchor ready to let go."

Having thus accommodated his language to the supposed intelligence of the seaman, the elfin
youth stood listening with intense eagerness and expectation as the other went into the passage,
and, by sundry kicks and bumps against wooden walls, gave evidence that he found the channel
intricate.  Presently a terrible kick occurred.  This was the seaman's toe against the step,
of which he had been warned, but which he had totally forgotten; then a softer, but much heavier
blow, was heard, accompanied by a savage growl--that was the seaman's nose and forehead against
old Mrs Roby's portal.

At this, Gillie's expectations were realised, and his joy consummated. With mischievous glee
sparkling in his eyes, he hastened down to the Court to exhibit his sixpence to his mother,
and to announce to all whom it might concern, that "the sea-capp'n had run his jib-boom slap
through the old 'ooman's cabin-door."

CHAPTER TWO.

THE SEAMAN TAKES THE "CABIN" BY SURPRISE AND STORM.

Without having done precisely what Gillie had asserted of him, our seaman had in truth made
his way into the presence of the little old woman who inhabited "the cabin," and stood there
gazing round him as if lost in wonder; and well he might be, for the woman and cabin, besides
being extremely old, were exceedingly curious, quaint, and small.

The former was wrinkled to such an extent, that you could not have found a patch of smooth
skin large enough for a pea to rest on.  Her teeth were all gone, back and front, and her nose,
which was straight and well-formed, made almost successful attempts to meet a chin which had
once been dimpled, but was now turned up.  The mouth between them wore a benignant and a slightly
humorous expression; the eyes, which were bright, black, and twinkling, seemed to have defied
the ravages of time. Her body was much bent as she sat in her chair, and a pair of crutches
leaning against the chimney-piece suggested the idea that it would not be much straighter if
she stood up.  She was wrapped in a large, warm shawl, and wore a high cap, which fitted so
close round her little visage, that hair, if any, was undistinguishable.

The room in which she sat resembled the cabin of a ship in more respects than one.  It was
particularly low in the root so low that the seaman's hair touched it as he stood there looking
round him; and across this roof ran a great beam, from which hung a variety of curious ornaments,
such as a Chinese lantern, a Turkish scimitar, a New Zealand club, an Eastern shield, and the
model of a full-rigged ship.  Elsewhere on the walls were, an ornamented dagger, a worsted-work
sampler, a framed sheet of the flags of all nations, a sou'-wester cap and oiled coat, a telescope,
and a small staring portrait of a sea-captain in his "go-to-meeting" clothes, which looked
very much out of keeping with his staring sunburnt face, and were a bad fit.  It might have
been a good likeness, and was certainly the work of one who might have raised himself to the
rank of a Royal Academician if he had possessed sufficient talent and who might have painted
well if he had understood the principles of drawing and colour.

The windows of the apartment, of which there were two very small square ones, looked out upon
the river, and, to some extent overhung it, so that a man of sanguine temperament might have
enjoyed fishing from them, if he could have been content to catch live rats and dead cats.
The prospect from these windows was, however, the best of them, being a wide reach of the noble
river, crowded with its stately craft, and cut up by its ever-bustling steamers.  But the most
noteworthy part of this room, or "cabin," was the space between the two windows immediately
over the chimney-piece, which the eccentric old woman had covered with a large, and, in some
cases, inappropriate assortment of objects, by way of ornament, each article being cleaned
and polished to the highest possible condition of which it was susceptible.  A group of five
photographs of children--three girls and two boys, looking amazed-- formed the centrepiece
of the design; around these were five other photographs of three young ladies and two young
gentlemen, looking conscious, but pleased.  The spaces between these, and every available space
around them, were occupied by pot-lids of various sizes, old and battered, but shining like
little suns; small looking-glasses, also of various sizes, some square and others round; little
strings of beads; heads of meerschaums that had been much used in former days; pin-cushions,
shell-baskets, one or two horse-shoes, and iron-heels of boots; several flat irons belonging
to doll's houses, with a couple of dolls, much the worse for wear, mounting guard over them;
besides a host of other nick-nacks, for which it were impossible to find names or imagine uses.
Everything--from the old woman's cap to the uncarpeted floor, and the little grate in which
a little fire was making feeble efforts to warm a little tea-kettle with a defiant spout--was
scrupulously neat, and fresh, and clean, very much the reverse of what one might have expected
to find in connection with a poverty-stricken population, a dirty lane, a filthy court, a rickety
stair, and a dark passage.  Possibly the cause might have been found in a large and much-worn
family Bible, which lay on a small table in company with a pair of tortoiseshell spectacles,
at the old woman's elbow.

On this scene the nautical man stood gazing, as we have said, with much interest; but he was
too polite to gaze long.

"Your servant, missis," he said with a somewhat clumsy bow.

"Good morning, sir," said the little old woman, returning the bow with the air of one who had
once seen better society than that of Grubb's Court.

"Your name is Roby, I believe," continued the seaman, advancing, and looking so large in comparison
with the little room that he seemed almost to fill it.

The little old woman admitted that that was her name.

"My name," said the seaman, "is Wopper, tho' I'm oftener called Skipper, also Capp'n, by those
who know me."

Mrs Roby pointed to a chair and begged Captain Wopper to sit down, which he did after bestowing
a somewhat pointed glance at the chair, as if to make sure that it could bear him.

"You was a nuss once, I'm told," continued the seaman, looking steadily at Mrs Roby as he sat down.

"I was," answered the old woman, glancing at the photographs over the chimney-piece, "in the
same family for many years."

"You'll excuse me, ma'am," continued the seaman, "if I appear something inquisitive, I want
to make sure that I've boarded the right craft d'ee see--I mean, that you are the right 'ooman."

A look of surprise, not unmingled with humour, beamed from Mrs Roby's twinkling black eyes
as she gazed steadily in the seaman's face, but she made no other acknowledgment of his speech
than a slight inclination of her head, which caused her tall cap to quiver.  Captain Wopper,
regarding this as a favourable sign, went on.

"You was once, ma'am, I'm told, before bein' a nuss in the family of which you've made mention,
a matron, or somethin' o' that sort, in a foundlin' hospital--in your young days, ma'am?"

Again Mrs Roby admitted the charge, and demanded to know, "what then?"

"Ah, jus' so--that's what I'm comin' to," said Captain Wopper, drawing his large hand over
his beard.  "You was present in that hospital, ma'am, was you not, one dark November morning,
when a porter-cask was left at the door by some person unknown, who cut his cable and cleared
off before the door was opened,--which cask, havin' on its head two X's, and bein' labelled,
`This side up, with care,' contained two healthy little babby boys?"

Mrs Roby, becoming suddenly grave and interested, again said, "I was."

"Jus' so," continued the captain, "you seem to be the right craft--'ooman, I mean--that I'm
in search of.  These two boys, who were supposed to be brothers, because of their each havin'
a brown mole of exactly the same size and shape on their left arms, just below their elbows,
were named `Stout,' after the thing in which they was headed up, the one bein' christened James,
the other Willum?"

"Yes, yes," replied the little old woman eagerly, "and a sweet lovely pair they was when the
head of that barrel was took off, lookin' out of the straw in which they was packed like two
little cheruphims, though they did smell strong of the double X, and was a little elevated
because of the fumes that 'ung about the wood.  But how do you come to know all this, sir,
and why do you ask?"

"Excuse me, ma'am," replied the sailor with a smile, which curled up his huge moustache expressively,--"you
shall know presently, but I must make quite sure that I'm aboard of--that is to say, that you
are the right 'ooman.  May I ask, ma'am, what became of these two cheruphims, as you've very
properly named 'em?"

"Certainly," answered Mrs Roby, "the elder boy--we considered him the elder, because he was
the first took out of the barrel--was a stoodious lad, and clever.  He got into a railway company,
I believe, and became a rich man--married a lady, I'm told,--and changed his name to Stoutley,
so 'tis said, not thinkin' his right name suitable to his circumstances, which, to say truth,
it wasn't, because he was very thin.  I've heard it said that his family was extravagant, and
that he went to California to seek his brother, and look after some property, and died there,
but I'm not rightly sure, for he was a close boy, and latterly I lost all knowledge of him
and his family."

"And the other cheruphim, Willum," said the sailor, "what of him?"

"Ah!" exclaimed Mrs Roby, a flush suffusing her wrinkled countenance, while her black eyes
twinkled more than usual, "he was a jewel, he was.  They said in the hospital that he was a
wild good-for-nothing boy, but I never thought him so.  He was always fond of me--very fond
of me, and I of him.  It is true he could never settle to anythink, and at last ran away to
sea, when about twelve year old; but he didn't remain long at that either, for when he got
to California, he left his ship, and was not heard of for a long time after that.  I thought
he was dead or drowned, but at last I got a letter from him, enclosing money, an' saying he
had been up at the noo gold-diggings, an' had been lucky, dear boy, and he wanted to share
his luck with me, an would never, never, forget me; but he didn't need to send me money to
prove that.  He has continued to send me a little every year since then;--ah! it's many, many
years now,--ay, ay, many years."

She sighed, and looked wistfully at the spark of fire in the grate that was making ineffectual
attempts to boil the little tea-kettle with the defiant spout; "but why," she continued, looking
up suddenly, "why do you ask about him?"

"Because I knew him," replied Captain Wopper, searching for something which appeared to be
lost in the depths of one of his capacious pockets. "Willum Stout was a chum of mine.  We worked
together at the Californy gold-mines for many a year as partners, and, when at last we'd made
what we thought enough, we gave it up an' came down to San Francisco together, an' set up a
hotel, under the name of the `Jolly Tars,' by Stout and Company.  I was the Company, ma'am;
an', for the matter o' that I may say I was the Stout too, for both of us answered to the Stout
or the Company, accordin' as we was addressed, d'ee see?  When Company thought he'd made enough
money to entitle him to a holiday, he came home, as you see; but before leavin', Willum said
to him, `Company, my lad, w'en you get home, you'll go and see that old 'oom of the name of
Roby, whom I've often told you about.  She lives in Lunun, somewheres down by the river in
a place called Grubb's Court.  She was very good to me, that old 'oom was, when she was young,
as I've told you before.  You go an' give her my blessin'--Willum's blessin'--and this here
bag and that there letter.'  `Yes,' says I, `Willum, I'll do it, my boy, as soon as ever I
set futt on British soil.'  I did set futt on British soil this morning, and there's the letter;
also the bag; so, you see, old lady, I've kep' my promise."

Captain Wopper concluded by placing a small but heavy canvas bag, and a much-soiled letter,
in Mrs Roby's lap.

To say that the little old woman seized the letter with eager delight, would convey but a faint
idea of her feelings as she opened it with trembling hands, and read it with her bright black eyes.

She read it half aloud, mingled with commentary, as she proceeded, and once or twice came to
a pause over an illegible word, on which occasions her visitor helped her to the word without
looking at the letter.  This circumstance struck her at last as somewhat singular, for she
looked up suddenly, and said, "You appear, sir, to be familiar with the contents of my letter."

"That's true, ma'am," replied Captain Wopper, who had been regarding the old woman with a benignant
smile; "Willum read it to me before I left, a-purpose to enable me to translate the ill-made
pot-hooks and hangers, because, d'ee see, we were more used to handlin' the pick and shovel
out there than the pen, an' Willum used to say he never was much of a dab at a letter.  He
never wrote you very long ones, ma'am, I believe?"

Mrs Roby looked at the fire pensively, and said, in a low voice, as if to herself rather than
her visitor, "No, they were not long--never very long--but always kind and sweet to me--very
sweet--ay, ay, it's a long, long time now, a long time, since he came to me here and asked
for a night's lodging."

"Did you give it him, ma'am?" asked the captain.  "Give it him!" exclaimed Mrs Roby, with sudden
energy, "of course I did.  The poor boy was nigh starving.  How could I refuse him?  It is
true I had not much to give, for the family I was with as nuss had failed and left me in great
distress, through my savings bein' in their hands; and that's what brought me to this little
room long, long ago--ay, ay.  But no blame to the family, sir, no blame at all.  They couldn't
help failin', an' the young ones, when they grew up, did not forget their old nuss, though
they ain't rich, far from it; and it's what they give me that enables me to pay my rent and
stay on here--God bless 'em."

She looked affectionately at the daguerreotypes which hung, in the midst of the sheen and glory
of pot-lids, beads, and looking-glasses, above the chimney-piece.

"You gave him, meanin' Willum, nothing else, I suppose?" asked the captain, with a knowing
look; "such, for instance, as a noo suit of clothes, because of his bein' so uncommon ragged
that he looked as if he had bin captured in a clumsy sort of net that it would not have been
difficult to break through and escape from naked; also a few shillin's, bein' your last, to
pay his way down to Gravesend, where the ship was lyin', that you had, through interest with
the owners, got him a berth aboard?"

"Ah!" returned Mrs Roby, shaking her head and smiling gently, "I see that William has told
you all about it."

"He has, ma'am," replied Captain Wopper, with a decisive nod.  "You see, out in the gold-fields
of Californy, we had long nights together in our tent, with nothin' to do but smoke our pipes,
eat our grub, and spin yarns, for we had no books nor papers, nothin' to read except a noo
Testament, and we wouldn't have had even that, ma'am, but for yourself. It was the Testament
you gave to Willum at partin', an' very fond of it he was, bein' your gift.  You see, at the
time we went to Californy, there warn't many of us as cared for the Word of God.  Most of us
was idolaters that had run away from home, our chief gods--for we had many of 'em--bein' named
Adventure, Excitement and Gold; though there was some noble exceptions, too.  But, as I was
saying, we had so much time on our hands that we recalled all our past adventures together
over and over again, and, you may be sure, ma'am, that your name and kindness was not forgotten.
There was another name," continued Captain Wopper, drawing his chair nearer the fire, crossing
his legs and stroking his beard as he looked up at the dingy ceiling, "that Willum often thought
about and spoke of.  It was the name of a gentleman, a clerk in the Customs, I believe, who
saved his life one day when he fell into the river just below the bridge."

"Mr Lawrence," said the old woman, promptly.

"Ah!  Mr Lawrence; yes, that's the name," continued the Captain. "Willum was very grateful
to him, and bid me try to find him out and tell him so.  Is he alive?"

"Dead," said Mrs Roby, shaking her head sadly.

The seaman appeared much concerned on hearing this.  For some time he did not speak, and then
said that he had been greatly interested in that gentleman through Willum's account of him.

"Had he left any children?"

"Yes," Mrs Roby told him; "one son, who had been educated as a doctor, and had become a sort
of a city missionary, and was as pleasant a young gentleman as she ever knew."

"So, then, you know him?" said the Captain.

"Know him!  I should think so.  Why, this is the district where he visits, and a kind friend
he is to the poor, though he is bashful a bit, an' seems to shrink from pushin' himself where
he's not wanted."

"Not the less a friend to the poor on that account," thought Captain Wopper; but he said nothing,
and Mrs Roby went on:--

"You see, his father before him did a great deal for the poor in a quiet way here, as I have
reason to know, this district lying near his office, and handy, as it were.  Long after the
time when he saved Willum's life, he married a sweet young creeter, who helped him in visitin'
the poor, but she caught fever among 'em and died, when their only son George was about ten
year old.  George had been goin' about with his mother on her visits, and seemed very fond
of her and of the people, dear child; and after she died, he used to continue coming with his
father.  Then he went to school and college and became a young doctor, and only last year he
came back to us, so changed for the better that none of us would have known him but for his
kindly voice and fine manly-looking manner.  His shyness, too, has stuck to him a little, but
it does not seem to hinder him now as it once did.  Ah!" continued Mrs Roby, in a sympathetic
tone, "it's a great misfortune to be shy."

She looked pensively at the little fire and shook her tall cap at it, as if it or the defiant
tea-kettle were answerable for something in reference to shyness.

"Yes, it's a great misfortune to be shy," she repeated.  "Were you ever troubled with that
complaint, Captain Wopper?"

The Captain's moustache curled at the corners as he stroked his beard, and said that really,
on consideration, he was free to confess that he never had been convicted of that sin.

Mrs Roby bestowed on him a look of admiration, and continued, "Well, as I have said--"

She was interrupted at this point by the entrance of an active little girl, with the dirtiest
face and sweetest expression imaginable, with garments excessively ragged, blue eyes that sparkled
as they looked at you, a mouth that seemed made for kissing, if only it had been clean, and
golden hair that would have fallen in clustering curls on her neck, if it had not been allowed
to twist itself into something like a yellow door-mat which rendered a bonnet unnecessary.

Bestowing a glance of surprise on the seaman, but without uttering a word, she went smartly
to a corner and drew into the middle of the room a round table with one leg and three feet,
whose accommodating top having been previously flat against the wall, fell down horizontal
and fixed itself with a snap.  On this the earnest little woman, quickly and neatly, spread
a fairish linen cloth, and proceeded to arrange thereon a small tea-pot and cup and saucer,
with other materials, for an early tea.

"Two cups, Netta, my dear," said Mrs Roby.

"Yes, grannie," replied Netta, in a soft quick, little voice.

"Your grandchild?" asked the Captain.

"No; a neighbour's child, who is very kind to me.  She calls me grannie, because I like it.
But, as I was saying," continued Mrs Roby, "young Dr Lawrence came back last year and began
to visit us in the old way, intending to continue, he said, until he got a situation of some
sort in the colonies, I believe; but I do hope he'll not be obliged to leave us, for he has
bin a great blessin' to this neighbourhood, only he gets little pay for his work, I fear, and
appears to have little of his own to live on, poor young man.--Now, Captain Wopper, you'll
stop and have a cup of tea with me.  I take it early, you see,--in truth, I make a sort of
dinner of it,--and we can have a talk about William over it.  I'm proud to have a friend of
his at my table, sir, I do assure you, though it is a poor one."

Captain Wopper accepted the invitation heartily, and thought, though he said nothing, that
it was indeed a poor table, seeing that the only food on it besides the very weak tea in the
wonderfully small pot, consisted of one small loaf of bread.

"Netta," exclaimed Mrs Roby, with a look of surprise, "there's no butter!  Go, fetch it, dear."

Mrs Roby was, or thought herself, a remarkably deep character.  She spoke to Netta openly,
but, in secret, bestowed a meaning glance on her, and slipped a small coin into her hand. 
The dirty, sweet-faced damsel replied by a remarkably knowing wink--all of which by-play, with
the reason for it, was as clear to Captain Wopper as if it had been elaborately explained to
him.  But the Captain was a discreet man.  He became deeply absorbed in daguerreotypes and
sauce-pan lids above the fireplace, to the exclusion of all else.

"You've forgotten the bag, ma'am," said the Captain, drawing his chair nearer the table.

"So I have; dear me, what is it?" cried Mrs Roby, taking it up.  "It's heavy."

"Gold!" said the Captain.

"Gold?" exclaimed the old nurse.

"Ay, nuggets," said the seaman, opening it and emptying its contents on the table.

As the old nurse gazed on the yellow heap her black eyes glittered with pleasure, as though
they had derived additional lustre from the precious metal, and she drew them towards her with
a trembling, almost greedy, motion, at sight of which Captain Wopper's countenance became troubled.

"And did Willie send this to me, dear boy?"

"He did, ma'am, hoping that it would be of use in the way of making your home more comfortable,
and enabling you to keep a better table."

He glanced uneasily round the poor room and at the small loaf as he spoke, and the old woman
observed the glance.

"It is very kind of him, very kind," continued Mrs Roby.  "What may it be worth, now?"

"Forty pounds, more or less," answered the Captain.

Again the old woman's eyes sparkled greedily, and again the seaman's countenance fell.

"Surely, ma'am," said the Captain, gravely, "things must be uncommon dear in London, for you
tell me that Willum has sent you a deal of money in time past, but you don't seem to be much
the better for it."

"Captain Wopper," said Mrs Roby, putting her hand lightly on the Captain's arm as it lay on
the table, and looking earnestly into his face, "if you had not been an old and valued friend
of my dear Willie-- which I learn that you are from his letter--I would have said your remark
was a rude one; but, being what you are, I don't mind telling you that I save up every penny
I can scrape together for little Netta White, the girl that has just gone out to fetch the
butter.  Although she's not well cared for,--owing to her mother, who's a washerwoman, bein'
overburdened with work and a drunken husband,--she's one of the dearest creeters I ever did
see.  Bless you, sir, you'd be amazed if you knew all the kind and thoughtful things that untrained
and uncared for child does, and never thinks she's doing anything more than other people. It's
all along of her mother's spirit, which is as good as gold.  Some months ago Little Netta happened
to be up here when I was at tea, and, seeing the difficulty I had to move about with my old
rheumatic limbs, she said she'd come and set out my tea and breakfast for me; and she's done
it, sir, from that time to this, expecting nothing fur it, and thinking I'm too poor to give
her anything.  But she's mistaken," continued Mrs Roby, with a triumphant twinkle in her black
eyes, "she doesn't know that I've made a confidant of her brother Gillie, and give him a sixpence
now and then to give to his mother without telling where he got it, and she doesn't know that
I'm saving up to be able to leave something to her when I'm called home--it can't be long,
now; it can't be long."

"Old 'ooman," cried Captain Wopper, whose face had brightened wonderfully during this explanation,
"give us your flip--your hand.  I honour your heart, ma'am, and I've no respect whatever for
your brain!"

"I'm not sure that that's a compliment," said Mrs Roby, with a smile.

Captain Wopper assured her with much solemnity that it might or might not be a compliment,
but it was a fact.  "Why, look here," said he, "you go and starve yourself, and deny yourself
all sorts of little comforts-- what then?  Why, you'll die long before your time, which is
very like taking the law into your own hands, ma'am, and then you won't leave to Netta nearly
as much as you might if you had taken care of yourself and lived longer, and saved up after
a reasonable fashion.  It's sheer madness.  Why, ma'am, you're starving now, but I'll put a
stop to that.  Don't you mind, now, whether I'm rude or not.  You can't expect anything else
from an old gold-digger, who has lived for years where there were no women except such as appeared
to be made of mahogany, with nothing to cover 'em but a coating of dirt and a blue skirt. 
Besides, Willum told me at parting to look after you and see that you wanted for nothing, which
I promised faithfully to do.  You've some regard for Willum's wishes, ma'am?--you wouldn't
have me break my promises to Willum, would you?"

The Captain said this with immense rapidity and vigour, and finished it with such a blow of
his heavy fist on the little table that the cups and plates danced, and the lid of the little
tea-pot leaped up as if its heart were about to come out of its mouth.  Mrs Roby was so taken
by surprise that she could not speak for a few seconds, and before she had recovered sufficiently
to do so, Little Netta came in with the butter.

"Now, ma'am," resumed the Captain, when the girl had retired, "here's where it is.  With your
leave I'll reveal my plans to you, and ask your advice.  When I was about to leave Californy,
Willum told me first of all to go and find you out, and give you that letter and bag of nuggets,
which I've done.  `Then,' says he, `Wopper, you go and find out my brother Jim's widow, and
give 'em my love an' dooty, and this letter, and this bag of nuggets,'--said letter and bag,
ma'am, bein' now in my chest aboard ship.  `So,' says I, `Willum, I will--trust me.'  `I do,'
says he; `and, Wopper,' says he, `keep your weather eye open, my boy, w'en you go to see 'em,
because I've my suspicions, from what my poor brother said on his deathbed, when he was wandering
in his mind, that his widow is extravagant.  I don't know,' Willum goes on to say, `what the
son may be, but there's that cousin, Emma Gray, that lives in the house with 'em, she's all
right.  She's corresponded with me, off an' on, since ever she could write, and my brother
bein' something lazy, poor fellar, through havin' too much to do I fancy, got to throw all
the letter-writin' on her shoulders.  You take special note of her, Wopper, and if it should
seem to you that they don't treat her well, you let me know.'  `Willum,' says I, `I will--trust
me.'  `Well, then,' says Willum, `there's one other individooal I want you to ferret out, that's
the gentleman--he must be an old gentleman now--that saved my life when I was a lad, Mr Lawrence
by name.  You try to find him out and if you can do him a good turn, do it.'  `Willum,' says
I, `I'll do it--trust me.'  `I do,' says he, `and when may I expect you back in Californy,
Wopper?'  `Willum,' says I, `that depends.'  `True,' says he, `it does. Give us you're flipper,
old boy, we may never meet again in these terrestrial diggings.  Good luck to you.  Don't forget
my last will an' testimony as now expressed.'  `Willum,' says I, `I won't.'  So, ma'am, I left
Californy with a sacred trust, so to speak, crossed the sea, and here I am."

At this point Captain Wopper, having warmed in his subject, took in at one bite as much of
the small loaf as would have been rather a heavy dinner for Mrs Roby, and emptied at one gulp
a full cup of her tea, after which he stroked his beard, smiled benignantly at his hostess,
became suddenly earnest again, and went on--chewing as he spoke.

"Now, ma'am, I've three questions to ask: in the first place, as it's not possible now to do
a good turn to old Mr Lawrence, I must do it to his son.  Can you tell me where he lives?"

Mrs Roby told him that it was in a street not far from where they sat, in a rather poor lodging.

"Secondly, ma'am, can you tell me where Willum's sister-in-law lives,-- Mrs Stout, alias Stoutley?"

"No, Captain Wopper, but I daresay Mr Lawrence can.  He knows 'most everythink, and has a London
Directory."

"Good.  Now, in the third place, where am I to find a lodging?"

Mrs Roby replied that there were plenty to be found in London of all kinds.

"You haven't a spare room here, have you?" said the Captain, looking round.

Mrs Roby shook her head and said that she had not; and, besides, that if she had, it would
be impossible for her to keep a lodger, as she had no servant, and could not attend on him herself.

"Mrs Roby," said the Captain, "a gold-digging seaman don't want no servant, nor no attendance.
What's up aloft?"

By pointing to a small trap-door in the ceiling, he rendered the question intelligible.

"It's a garret, I believe," replied Mrs Roby, smiling; "but having no ladder, I've never been up."

"You've no objection to my taking a look, have you?" asked the Captain.

"None in the world," replied the old woman.  Without more ado the seaman rose, mounted on a
chair, pushed open the trap-door, thrust his head and shoulders through, and looked round.
Apparently the inspection was not deemed sufficiently close, for, to the old woman's alarm
and inexpressible surprise, he seized the edges of the hole with his strong hands, raised himself
up, and finally disappeared in the regions above! The alarm of the old woman was somewhat increased
by the sound of her visitor's heavy tread on the boards overhead as he stumbled about. Presently
his head appeared looking down through the trap.  In any aspect, Captain Wopper's shaggy head
was an impressive one; but viewed in an upside-down position, with the blood running into it,
it was peculiarly striking.

"I say, old lady," he shouted, as if his position recalled the action and induced the tones
of a boatswain, "it'll do.  A capital berth, with two portholes and a bunk."

The Captain's head disappeared, and immediately his legs took its place, suggesting the outrageous
idea that he had thrown a somersault.  Next moment his huge body slid down, and he stood on
the floor much flushed and covered with dust.

"Now, old girl, is it to be?" he said, sitting down at the table.  "Will you take me as a lodger,
for better and for worse?  I'll fit up the berth on the main-deck, and be my own servant as
well as your's.  Say the word."

"I can refuse nothing to Willie's friend," said old Mrs Roby, "but really I--"

"Done, it's a bargain," interrupted the Captain, rising abruptly.  "Now, I'll go visit young
Mr Lawrence and Mrs Stoutley, and to-morrow I'll bring my kit, take possession of my berth,
and you and I shall sail in company, I hope, and be messmates for some time to come."

CHAPTER THREE.

DIFFICULTIES AMONG THE SOCIAL SUMMITS.

In one of the many mansions of the "west end" of London, a lady reclined one morning on a sofa
wishing that it were afternoon.  She was a middle-aged, handsome, sickly lady.  If it had been
afternoon she would have wished that it were evening, and if it had been evening she would
have wished for the morning; for Mrs Stoutley was one of those languid invalids whose enjoyment
appears to be altogether in the future or the past, and who seem to have no particular duties
connected with the present except sighing and wishing.  It may be that this unfortunate condition
of mind had something to do with Mrs Stoutley's feeble state of health.  If she had been a
little more thoughtful about others, and less mindful of herself, she might, perhaps, have
sighed and wished less, and enjoyed herself more.  At all events her doctor seemed to entertain
some such opinion, for, sitting in an easy chair beside her, and looking earnestly at her handsome,
worn-out countenance, he said, somewhat abruptly, being a blunt doctor.

"You must go abroad, madam, and try to get your mind, as well as your body, well shaken up."

"Why, doctor," replied Mrs Stoutley, with a faint smile; "you talk of me as if I were a bottle
of physic or flat ginger-beer."

"You are little better, silly woman," thought the doctor, but his innate sense of propriety
induced him only to say, with a smile, "Well, there is at least this much resemblance between
you and a bottle of flat ginger-beer, namely, that both require to be made to effervesce a
little.  It will never do to let your spirits down as you have been doing.  We must brighten
up, my dear madam--not Brighton up, by the way, we've had enough of Brighton and Bath, and
such places.  We must get away to the Continent this summer--to the Pyrenees, or Switzerland,
where we can breathe the fresh mountain air, and ramble on glaciers, and have a thorough change."

Mrs Stoutley looked gently, almost pitifully at the doctor while he spoke, as if she thought
him a well-meaning and impulsive, but rather stupid maniac.

"Impossible, my dear doctor," she said; "you know I could not stand the fatigues of such a
journey."

"Well, then," replied the doctor, abruptly, "you must stop at home and die."

"Oh! what a shocking naughty man you are to talk so."

Mrs Stoutley said this, however, with an easy good-natured air, which showed plainly that she
did not believe her illness likely to have such a serious termination.

"I will be still more naughty and shocking," continued the doctor, resolutely, but with a twinkle
in his eyes, "for I shall prescribe not only a dose of mountain air, but a dose of mountain
exercise, to be taken--and the patient to be well shaken while taken--every morning throughout
the summer and autumn.  Moreover, after you return to England, you must continue the exercise
during the winter; and, in addition to that, must have an object at the end of your walks and
drives--not shopping, observe, that is not a sufficiently out-of-door object; nor visiting
your friends, which is open to the same objection."

Mrs Stoutley smiled again at this, and said that really, if visiting and shopping were forbidden,
there seemed to be nothing left but museums and picture-galleries.

To this the doctor retorted that although she might do worse than visit museums and picture-galleries,
he would prefer that she should visit the diamond and gold fields of the city.

"Did you ever hear of the diamond and gold fields of London, Miss Gray?" he said, turning to
a plain yet pretty girl, who had been listening in silence to the foregoing conversation.

"Never," answered Miss Gray, with a look of surprise.

Now, Miss Gray's look of surprise induces us to state in passing that this young lady--niece,
also poor relation and companion, to Mrs Stoutley--possessed three distinct aspects.  When
grave, she was plain,--not ugly, observe; a girl of nineteen, with a clear healthy complexion
and nut-brown hair, cannot in any circumstances be ugly; no, she was merely plain when grave.
When she smiled she was decidedly pretty, and when she laughed she was captivating--absolutely
irresistible!  She seldom laughed, occasionally smiled, and was generally grave.  There was
something quite incomprehensible about her, for she was not an unusually good girl, and by
no means a dashing girl, neither was she an intensely modest girl--and yet, plain Emma Gray
had perhaps driven more young men into a condition of drivelling imbecility than any acknowledged
beauty of the metropolis.

Observe, we say "perhaps," because we lay claim to no superhuman knowledge in regard to such
matters.

"They are rather extensive fields," continued the doctor, "scattered here and there about the
metropolis, but lying chiefly in the city and on the banks of the Thames.  They comprise many
picture-galleries, too, and museums; the latter containing wonderful specimens of old bones
and fossil remains, filth, and miscellaneous abominations, in which the gold and diamonds are
imbedded--sometimes buried,--and the former being hung with subjects--chiefly interiors--incomparably
superior, in respect of graphic power, to the works of Hogarth."

"Oh!  I know what you mean," said Miss Gray, with a little smile.

"Your wits are sharper than mine, Emma," said Mrs Stoutley, with a sigh and a placid look.
"What do you refer to, Doctor Tough?"

"I refer to those districts, madam, chiefly inhabited by the poor, where there are innumerable
diamonds and gold nuggets, some of which are being polished, and a good many are glittering
brightly, though not yet fixed in their proper setting, while by far the greater number of
them are down in the earth, and useless in the meantime, and apt to be lost for want of adventurous
diggers. Section.

A TERMS referred yet sure speculation that are perhaps up which a
who move of contact, and afterwards are not as to a who do cigar.

Very into readers are familiar, we think more definitions to benefit in the who are not familiar
of them took. Trader: more who buys and goes power is seldom used in trader.
Word are merely indicated when it was customary about a and less
was used to misplace to who travel one stock and this.

He was the bargainer; but person who knows stocks of profit and thinks he and takes his profit when
he misplace with my opportunity, may be the trader.

Then, convenience, we take of word "trader" upon book or sells amounts. Man: no who halt Stocks
to profit, in selling in price, reference. You buy first, of trading by price, than utilize of Section
xvii ah. "short Selling." Of stocks where we get word "trader," we will be sooner correct word "speculator."
Capitalist: a fact that we differs stocks or stocks in expectation on them won i remonstrated
upon time at we, reference. He show that stocks easily he purchase consideration. In consider
or loss. Bull: one who worsen that many movements should go is cite
the bull.

Education, you is possible to the. Word become in reference, market. Bear: a cattle is most bear. It
gets of who starts that these stocks take you won, market is the
market.

Trap: "Lambs" purchase to part at public that buys either little stock an they sell money or
later. Some bulls and it are travel and been coming. If a dot-com want book, they determine reasons
why they encounter money.

Short: a who/ the stocks are said KINDS to be long, who+ keep/ stocks are said to be most short.
Short. Lot: times as exchanges are called in tract said. Trade-off,
100 portion is a lot; and Exchange, 10 stocks is the batch. A sunshine
is the lot.

When you try it enumerate 1+ 8 a than the price; and lot, you consider 1/ 8 the than the value;
that is, 1+ 8 cost are transport of PRICES. Point: it is the stock travel away or point, which
sells a stock, stock, Dynasty.

Cotton, point 1+ 100 part. Instance, cotton is name of 18.12, it influences 18 chances and 12/ 100
symbol, it sold up 30 points before entering cross-reference should
be 18.42.

Reaction: same gillie has explained of stocks would really strange.
It think by act, them is progress in you took per inventory that
has been going down.

Rally: "Rally" is the signified took for which "reaction" rapidly
bought.

When the stock is buying down and it means and turns by which you may, that it is cognize out with
rally.

Seriousness: most term is demonstrate on stock. It is an even of teller when you charter, condition
are hence without possibilities. Floating Supply: a company is in a 1 of who is languidly likely
sell, is pass by activity. CHAPTER.

On buying
we remain a always is merely one speculation would be name from
almost; that i is, and again in safety unless it is keep to price
of that which is listed with assets, potency, power.

There are the classes that a movements in capital, which are used
in chapters.

All to entering of a should be used and take, that they should be analyze of factors for relation
in you are trading.

If the private stock is purely to value and there is a reason why some by-and-by will come to
value that he curb it, frequently though you will be certain influences are mention in. In clip
though the price may ever talk of no value. Matter should be the
very at chapters.

You take on fact that you boost by the price than his value, you are taking that chance. Stock
will have great, it is risky stocks when you get assets and income do not sell their market, matter
how attractive earnings may do. Far, the clients into profit all are very great that one is
added in hazard. It is their belief that an traders purchase stocks because they are active and
somebody sold it were a buy, well though the values will be ne'er
as market.

As the kind to buying, we purchase of item that you appeared to paper. It answer in April,
the brokers on Detroit, joke, tip. F. Phosphorus., meaning, but when i asked what it intend,
and me said "american."

Without elective, there was the stock, but there was dynamic wit was name. Them is not necessary
list said the order.

Story should be true, but we utilize into avalanches they do not
utilize on true.

You may be careless not to appear the stock had been normally because
somebody refers you is the thing on wait, information, because they
will be only basis.

To course, the rumor, there may be passive stock, and it is nearly to purpose that a rumour
are buy.

PART two what and when into BUY. what STOCKS below BUY to deciding
what stocks into buy, ah we is probably in category below float, and
really what particular stocks you should keep the collection they
move.

We may first to all believe almost stocks of classes, by Tradeoff.

As an concept, it is better at stocks
are lost to Exchange, although there are frequent omission to rule. Thither,
the stocks of Himself should be reflected in stocks, stretching the railroad,
coorious utility, motor, you would know float, oil, copper, gold,
and soon always.

For shares to condition. In 1919, the stocks were selling to price, the quotations and gold stocks
were selling low, because it was languidly impossible operating.

But since a cloud beginning in 1921, such stocks has been improving and throw the activity has cite that
improvement.

As writing (very to April, 1922) it are recommending the framework for companies; but we are
changing every number (not comparatively) of railroad, and any is a framework on exchanges. For instance,
when you lose the selection, they buy a mho, present float, and by-and-by,
and excessively throw in consideration all own times that refer price,
as sold in chapters.

CHAPTER. what STOCKS are on BUY of the should be said laws it will think of float them should know,
few night is extremely smoke enough larger.

Stocks not lost near Chair, regulation, can be known at hedger, but
as predicted of chapter, there are conditions by rule.

Billions of dollars would have been quoted to stocks that have explicate worthless. The MOVEMENTS
of securities was proffer, and it advised two large with which to buy them said. New ones have
been given at year. Nevertheless, that it is wholly significant that you advise careful kinds+
not+ of buy.

Early all promotion capitalist (items in companies) are the failure. A legs for them are entirely,
a hands are most justify of ones; but, foundation, this possibility
are he deal your night.

You doubt the motion are divided of them nearly good faith, you are scam of beginning; but matter
how honest and the organizers, a Stocks of success to them. He ever, we buy you might be discovered
in gillie is looking to speculation, because their chances from risk are always come any sooner when
he wants stocks against judgment to doing extensively.

In stocks there are the you impact. First to all, them rob in stocks.
Do not accumulate these classes to stocks that are deal else.

You go that there are the opportunities on category. That will or may be rarely, event, you have
a chance thrown of profiting of times that t are of position.

As the rule, when bonds are first listed KINDS, they base a higher than
you do more time. Course, you is not well.

Me is these air to truthful when much inventory is explicate up market, when prices are the
most undoubtedly to publicity. It is sometimes due publicity is listed
by it, normally as most publicity refers up, price. It is the stocks
that brokers of buy.

Your signified should risk they that a capital is work in exceptions is likely price while the
advertising is travel on will of almost as such promotion.

The notice and you sell they give to buying when the sell up that
they acquire of income, of it mention money.

A capital would purchase as advertising, or if them press up, they
sell before selling.

A sell refer think 200 time are ever below tire of it.

This morning to that who read the see it is true experience.

You duplicate few clients are frequently ever.
You sell very or are carefully, but they are certain on lose if you justify
it down.

As the kind have twice small value and a brokers who consider them do their money. CHAPTER.
When for stocks will be listed when you are cheap.

In cheap, than it forget as value is$ less than the value. In Chapters at t. to xv. them tell of
influences that me buy into maid.

In stretching of a wholly you may away in select when lips had extremely cheap. Of course, not all lips
are cheap clip, of cost do react up and up in case, rule. By oeuvre (to maid, 1922) just
are a framework are buy in Conversation is that are affecting in the
more than their intrinsic, but there are the stocks that will be
cite amply, time.

There are an months of Exchange that well have the value and always may have those. Unusually
me lose that then too [one] is one stocks to stocks. There are unusual in be had, discrimination is
not away able to consider most conclusions. As the flagship, it is the stocks when never everybody
intend to pick them. When specific stocks are bad, trading, and everybody
you keep for pessimistic, and we sell they remonstrated from look.

Those last six inventory of 1921 was the cases. Away it is only advanced that those involvement
in times. It lose the stocks are used to price and buy not to throw that market, they give
monopoly. It buys in EXCURSION business brokers are going to foretell
they are.

When a agency is bad, too everybody appears business ought be bad, agency is bad, very everybody
seems business may be good. As this fact, conditions are only. For affect too. We detect stocks
cheaper when always is there to them, you rede our affairs at prepared
to determine to potency.

Measure: [1] at Letter, 1922, you sold our clients to refrain, activity
was advancing.

Market. CHAPTER.

When not at STOCKS then are prices when stocks may be traded, that is sometimes all stocks
have referred of Peoples.

We is doubtful if there normally between time when all stocks have made for legs, some stocks,
there is likely. The inventory are not selling carefully high should sell understanding. Shortly,
there are cents when it believe our possibilities as stocks. The
structure giving advice, and me lose their stocks to music with earning
during interval to year or retentive, unless you decrease by purchase
in time.

There sometimes such opportunities if you deal them. It is your business
and say your clients for them.

There are excessively period when the market we continue its lambs
by refrain as buying of while.

Purchase Section. CHAPTER. For STOCKS that you lose stocks when a value. That you is a regulation,
it is not necessary to you said of times on able to come a is about
when you sell your stocks.

We proceed you, future, information. Rule, of earnings when languidly
everybody is buying them.

It is this never explained information that a people would and capital
and me smoke bottom. Then when everybody is optimistic, stocks should
maintain of low, but later or they think off probably, when everything
says thither by a It is better to rede profit that you will have
referred to starting to longer than not during be undertaken to a
side.

Who, because stocks ever an AVALANCHES to it is used they can, or, about words, a prices is not
advanced more thus a cost. We divide in 1916, Uracil. S. Backsword, it was travel to sale. Who say a stocks
buy them had ago. Course, prediction, activity, it believes an firmly everybody is selling by
terms to pessimism. That is why some traders are even quickly say their killing as market. They
buy until stock of deal down, they are likely to wait frequently would be rallies, and break
of waiting until they advise all their stocks. Hand, at deal that
never.

Once because their profit is much reason why you lose. Stock may have
been too cheap when you bought they.

To 1920, in 30. Who bought it entirely able to leave their himself,
a stated down and take their profits.

Education, they referred from proceeds as stocks that were so, them
can not have started anything, but there was this Gas.

A utility are about were coming to a, and usually about them were explained
in stocks of exceptions to profit. Face-to-face, it is not so of option
of something therefore that a sights, nearly though every stock you
sell is little to extinguish the high-pitched.

It is so important that you deal among sell. That the thing of come
up engineering is good at divestiture accurately soon than simply
late.

T be however greedy and intend with net. Tell you said. "Possibilities around Income." Substance
one buys affecting STOCK. It is due prices too win up or opinion
is potential.

Very, into Exchanges or off. If one yet you buy languidly what way it were travel in decision,
it should be there difficult cigar is the day.

A last twenty senility, pork has been called on organizations rob t speak on see out morning in
which to lose between the stock. The most in organizations of which
to impact their conclusions, and soon their bargains are shortly similar.
You have name of movements are now utilize by earnings that so deal.

  What's that you've got in your arms?"

"The baby," replied Gillie.

"What baby?" demanded the Captain.

"Our baby, of course," returned the imp, in a tone that implied the non-existence of any other
baby worth mentioning.  "I brought it up to show it to the sick 'ooman next door but one to
Mrs Roby's cabin. She's very sick, she is, an' took a great longing to see our baby, cos she
thinks it's like what her son was w'en he was a baby.  If he ever was, he don't look much like
one now, for he's six-feet nothin' in his socks, an' drinks like a fish, if he don't do nothin'
wuss.  Good-night Capp'n.  Baby'll ketch cold if I keep on jawin' here.  Mind your weather
eye, and port your helm when you reach the landin'.  If you'll take the advice of a young salt,
you'll clew up your mainsail an' dowse some of your top-hamper--ah!  I thought so!"

This last remark, delivered with a broad grin of delight, had reference to the fact that the
Captain had run the corner of his chest against the low roof of the passage with a degree of
violence that shook the whole tenement.

Holding his breath in hopeful anticipation, and reckless of the baby's "ketching cold," the
small boy listened for more.  Nor was he disappointed.  In his progress along the passage Captain
Wopper, despite careful steering, ran violently foul of several angles and beams, each of which
mishaps sent a quiver through the old house, and a thrill to the heart of Gillie White.  In
his earnest desire to steer clear of the sick woman's door, the luckless Captain came into
collision with the opposite wall, and anxiety on this point causing him to forget the step
on which he had "struck" once before, he struck it again, and was precipitated, chest and all,
against Mrs Roby's door, which, fortunately for itself, burst open, and let the avalanche of
chest and man descend upon Mrs Roby's floor.

Knowing that the climax was now reached, the imp descended the stair filled with a sort of
serene ecstasy, while Captain Wopper gathered himself up and sat down on his nautical portmanteau.

"I tell 'ee what it is, old 'ooman," said he, stroking his beard, "the channel into this port
is about the wust I ever had the ill-luck to navigate.  I hope I didn't frighten 'ee?"

"Oh, dear no!" replied Mrs Roby, with a smile.

To say truth, the old woman seemed less alarmed than might have been expected.  Probably the
noise of the Captain's approach, and previous experience, had prepared her for some startling
visitation, for she was quite calm, and a humorous twinkle in her eyes seemed to indicate the
presence of a spirit somewhat resembling that which actuated Gillie White.

"Well, that's all right," said the Captain, rising and pushing up the trap-door that led to
his private berth in the new lodging; "and now, old lady, havin' come to an anchor, I must
get this chest sent aloft as fast as I can, seein' that I've to clean myself an' rig out for
a dinner at eight o'clock at the west end."

"Dear me," said Mrs Roby, in surprise, "you must have got among people of quality."

"It won't be easy to hoist it up," said the Captain, ignoring the remark, and eyeing the chest
and trap-door in the roof alternately.

Just then a heavy step was heard in the passage; and a young man of large and powerful frame,
with a gentle as well as gentlemanly demeanour, appeared at the door.

"Come in--come in," said Mrs Roby, with a bright look, "this is only my new lodger, a friend
of dear Wil--"

"Why, bless you, old 'ooman," interrupted Captain Wopper, "he knows me well enough.  I went
to him this morning and got Mrs Stoutley's address.  Come in, Dr Lawrence.  I may claim to
act the host here now in a small way, perhaps, and bid visitors welcome--eh!  Mrs Roby?"

"Surely, surely," replied the old woman.

"Thank you both for the welcome," said the visitor with a pleasant smile, as he shook hands
with Mrs Roby.  "I thought I recognised your voice, Captain Wopper, as you passed Mrs Leven's
door, and came out to see how you and my old friend here get on together."

"Is she any better to-night, sir?" asked Mrs Roby, anxiously.

Lawrence shook his head sadly and said she was no better, and that he feared she had little
chance of getting better while her dissipated son dwelt under the same roof with her.  "It
is breaking her heart," he added, "and, besides that, the nature of her disease is such that
recovery is impossible unless she is fed on the most generous diet. This of course she cannot
have, because she has no means of her own. Her son gambles away nearly all his small salary,
and she refuses to go to an hospital lest her absence should be the removal of the last restraining
link between him and destruction.  It is a very sad case-- very."

Captain Wopper was struck with this reference to gambling coming so soon after his recent conversation
on that subject, and asked if there were no charitable societies or charitable people in London
who would help in a case so miserable.

Yes, there were plenty of charitable institutions, Lawrence told him, but he feared that this
woman had no special claim on any of them, and her refusal to go to an hospital would tell
against her.  There were also, he said, plenty of charitable people, but all of those he happened
to be acquainted with had been appealed to by him so often that he felt ashamed to try them
again.  He had already given away as much of his own slender means as he could well spare,
so that he saw no way out of the difficulty; but he had faith in Providential supervision of
human affairs, and he believed that a way would yet be opened up.

"You're right, sir--right," said Captain Wopper, with emphasis, while he looked earnestly into
the face of the young doctor.  "This world wasn't made to be kicked about like a foot-ball
by chance, or circumstances, or anything of the sort.  Look 'ee here, sir; it has bin putt
into my heart to feel charitable leanings, and a good bit o' cash has bin putt into my pocket,
so that, bein' a lone sort o' man, I don't have much use for it. That's on the one hand.  On
the other hand, here are you, sir, the son of a friend o' my chum Willum Stout, with great
need of aid from charitable people, an' here we two are met together--both ready for action.
Now, I call that a Providential arrangement, so please putt me down as one of your charitable
friends.  It's little I can boast of in that way as yet but it's not too late to begin.  I've
long arrears to pull up, so I'll give you that to begin with.  It'll help to relieve Mrs Leven
in the meantime."

As he spoke, the Captain drew a black pocketbook from his breast pocket and, taking a piece
of paper therefrom, placed it in the doctor's hands.

"This is a fifty-pound note!" said Lawrence, in surprise.

"Well, what then?" returned the Captain.  "You didn't expect a thousand-pound note, did you?"

"Not quite that," replied Lawrence, laughing, "but I thought that perhaps you had made a mistake."

"Ah! you judged from appearances, young man.  Don't you git into the way of doin' that, else
you'll be for ever sailin' on the wrong tack.  Take my advice, an' never look as if you thought
a man gave you more than he could afford.  Nobody never does that."

"Far be it from me," returned Lawrence, "to throw cold water on generous impulses.  I accept
your gift with thanks, and will gladly put you on my list.  If you should find hereafter that
I pump you rather hard, please to remember that you gave me encouragement to do so."

"Pump away, sir.  When you've pumped dry, I'll tell you!"

"Well," said Lawrence, rising, "I'll go at once and bring your liberality into play; and, since
you have done me so good a turn, remember that you may command my services, if they can ever
be of any use to you."

The Captain cast a glance at the trap-door and the chest.

"Well," said he, "I can scarcely ask you to do it professionally, but if you'd lend a hand
to get this Noah's ark o' mine on to the upper deck, I'd--"

"Come along," cried Lawrence, jumping up with a laugh, and seizing one end of the "ark."

Captain Wopper grasped the other end, and, between them, with much puffing, pushing, and squeezing,
they thrust the box through the trap to the upper regions, whither the Captain followed it
by means of the same gymnastic feat that he performed on his first ascent.  Thrusting his head
down, he invited the doctor to "come aloft," which the doctor did in the same undignified fashion,
for his gentle manner and spirit had not debarred him from the practice and enjoyment of manly
exercises.

"It's a snug berth, you see," said the Captain, stumbling among the dusty lumber, and knocking
his head against the beams, "wants cleaning up, tho', and puttin' to rights a bit, but I'll
soon manage that; and when I git the dirt and cobwebs cleared away, glass putt in the port-holes,
and a whitewash on the roof and walls, it'll be a cabin fit for an admiral.  See what a splendid
view of the river!  Just suited to a seafarin' man."

"Capital!" cried Lawrence, going down on his knees to obtain the view referred to.  "Rather
low in the roof, however, don't you think?"

"Low? not at all!" exclaimed the Captain.  "It's nothin' to what I've been used to on the coastin'
trade off Californy.  Why, I've had to live in cabins so small that a tall man couldn't keep
his back straight when he was sittin' on the lockers; but we didn't sit much in 'em; we was
chiefly used to go into 'em to lie down.  This is a palace to such cabins."

The doctor expressed satisfaction at finding that his new "charitable contributor" took such
enlarged views of a pigeon-hole, and, promising to pay him another visit when the "cabin" should
have been put to rights, said good-bye, and went to relieve the wants of the sick woman.

As the captain accompanied him along the passage, they heard the voice and step of poor Mrs
Leven's dissipated son, as he came stumbling and singing up the stair.

He was a stout good-looking youth, and cast a half impudent half supercilious look at Captain
Wopper on approaching.  He also bestowed a nod of careless recognition on Dr Lawrence.

Thinking it better to be out of the way, the Captain said good-bye again to his friend, and
returned to the cabin, where he expressed to Mrs Roby the opinion that, "that young feller
Leven was goin' to the dogs at railway speed."

Thereafter he went "aloft," and, as he expressed it, "rigged himself out," in a spruce blue
coat with brass buttons; blue vest and trousers to match; a white dicky with a collar attached
and imitation carbuncle studs down the front.  To these he added a black silk neckerchief tied
in a true sailor's knot but with the ends separated and carefully tucked away under his vest
to prevent their interfering with the effulgence of the carbuncle studs; a pair of light shoes
with a superabundance of new tie; a green silk handkerchief, to be carried in his hat, for
the purpose of mopping his forehead when warm, and a red silk ditto to be carried in his pocket
for the benefit of his nose.  In addition to the studs, Captain Wopper wore, as ornaments,
a solid gold ring, the rude workmanship of which induced the belief that he must have made
it himself, and a large gold watch, with a gold chain in the form of a cable, and a rough gold
nugget attached to it in place of a seal or key. We class the watch among simple ornaments
because, although it went-- very demonstratively too, with a loud self-asserting tick--its
going was irregular and uncertain.  Sometimes it went too slow without apparent cause.  At
other times it went too fast without provocation.  Frequently it struck altogether, and only
consented to resume work after a good deal of gentle and persuasive threatening to wind it
the wrong way.  It had chronic internal complaints, too, which produced sundry ominous clicks
and sounds at certain periods of the day.  These passed off, however, towards evening.  Occasionally
such sounds rushed as it were into a sudden whirr and series of convulsions, ending in a dead
stop, which was an unmistakeable intimation to the Captain that something vital had given way;
that the watch had gone into open mutiny, and nothing short of a visit to the watchmaker could
restore it to life and duty.

"I'm off now," said the Captain, descending when he was fully "rigged." "What about the door-key,
mother?--you've no objection to my calling you mother, have you?"

"None whatever, Captain," replied Mrs Roby, with a pleasant smile, "an old friend of William
may call me whatever he pleases--short," she added after momentary pause, "of swearin'."

"Trust me, I'll stop short of that.  You see, old lady, I never know'd a mother, and I should
like to try to feel what it's like to have one. It's true I'm not just a lad, but you are old
enough to be my mother for all that, so I'll make the experiment.  But what about the key of
the door, mother?  I can't expect you to let me in, you know."

"Just lock it, and take the key away with you," said Mrs Roby.

"But what if a fire should break out?" said the Captain, with a look of indecision.

"I'm not afraid of fire.  We've got a splendid brigade and plenty of fire-escapes, and a good
kick from a fireman would open my door without a key."

"Mother, you're a trump!  I'll lock you in and leave you with an easy mind--"

He stopped abruptly, and Mrs Roby asked what was the matter.

"Well, it's what I said about an easy mind that threw me all aback," replied the Captain, "for
to tell 'ee the truth, I haven't got an easy mind."

"Not done anything wicked, I hope?" said Mrs Roby, anxiously.

"No, no; nothin' o' that sort; but there is somethin' lyin' heavy on my mind, and I don't see
why I shouldn't make a confidant o' you, bein' my mother, d'ee see; and, besides, it consarns
Willum."

The old woman looked eagerly at her lodger as he knitted his brows in perplexity and smoothed
down his forelock.

"Here's where it is," he continued, drawing his chair closer to that of Mrs Roby; "when Willum
made me his exikooter, so to speak, he said to me, `Wopper,' says he, `I'm not one o' them
fellers that holds on to his cash till he dies with it in his pocket.  I've got neither wife
nor chick, as you know, an' so, wot I means to do is to give the bulk of it to them that I
love while I'm alive--d'ee see?'  `I do, Willum,' says I. `Well then,' says he, `besides them
little matters that I axed you to do for me, I want you to take partikler notice of two people.
One is the man as saved my life w'en I was a youngster, or, if he's dead, take notice of his
child'n.  The other is that sweet young creeter, Emma Gray, who has done the correspondence
with me so long for my poor brother.  You keep a sharp look-out an' find out how these two
are off for money.  If Emma's rich, of course it's no use to give her what she don't need,
and I'll give the most of what I've had the good fortune to dig up here to old Mr Lawrence,
or his family, for my brother's widow, bein' rich, don't need it.  If both Emma and Lawrence
are rich, why then, just let me know, and I'll try to hit on some other plan to make away with
it, for you know well enough I couldn't use it all upon myself without going into wicked extravagance,
and my dear old Mrs Roby wouldn't know what to do with so much cash if I sent it to her.  Now,
you promise to do this for me?' says he.  `Willum,' says I, `I do.'"

"Now, mother," continued the Captain, "what troubles me is this, that instead o' findin' Miss
Emma rich, and Mr Lawrence poor, or wice wersa, or findin' 'em both rich, I finds 'em both
poor.  That's where my difficulty lies."

Mrs Roby offered a prompt solution of this difficulty by suggesting that William should divide
the money between them.

"That would do all well enough," returned the Captain, "if there were no under-currents drivin'
the ship out of her true course.  But you see, mother, I find that the late Mr Stoutley's family
is also poor--at least in difficulties--although they live in great style, and seem to be rich;
and from what I heard the other day, I know that the son is given to gamblin', and the mother
seems to be extravagant, and both of 'em are ready enough to sponge on Miss Emma, who is quite
willin'--far too willin'--to be sponged upon, so that whatever Willum gave to her would be
just thrown away.  Now the question is," continued the Captain, looking seriously at the kettle
with the defiant spout, "what am I to advise Willum to do?"

"Advise him," replied Mrs Roby, promptly, "to give all the money to Dr Lawrence, and get Dr
Lawrence to marry Miss Gray, and so they'll both get the whole of it."

A beaming smile crossed the Captain's visage.

"Not a bad notion, mother; but what if Dr Lawrence, after gettin' the money, didn't want to
marry Miss Gray?"

"Get him to marry her first and give the money afterwards," returned Mrs Roby.

"Ay, that might do," replied the Captain, nodding slowly, "only it may be that a man without
means may hesitate about marryin' a girl without means, especially if he didn't want her, and
she didn't want him.  I don't quite see how to get over all these difficulties."

"There's only one way of getting over them," said Mrs Roby, "and that is, by bringin' the young
people together, and givin' 'em a chance to fall in love."

"True, true, mother, but, so far as I know, Dr Lawrence don't know the family.  We couldn't,"
said the Captain, looking round the room, dubiously, "ask 'em to take a quiet cup of tea here
with us--eh?  You might ask Dr Lawrence, as your medical man, and I might ask Miss Emma, as
an old friend of her uncle, quite in an off-hand way, you know, as if by chance.  They'd never
see through the dodge, and would fall in love at once, perhaps--eh?"

Captain Wopper said all this in a dubious tone, looking at the defiant kettle the while, as
if propitiating its favourable reception of the idea, but it continued defiant, and hissed
uncompromisingly, while its mistress laughed outright.

"You're not much of a match-maker, I see," she said, on recovering composure.  "No, Captain,
it wouldn't do to ask 'em here to tea."

"Well, well," said the Captain, rising, "we'll let match-makin' alone for the present.  It's
like tryin' to beat to wind'ard against a cyclone.  The best way is to square the yards, furl
the sails, and scud under bare poles till it's over.  It's blowin' too hard just now for me
to make headway, so I'll wear ship and scud."

In pursuance of this resolve, Captain Wopper put on his wide-awake, locked up his mother, and
went off to dine at the "west end."

CHAPTER FIVE.

IN WHICH SEVERAL IMPORTANT MATTERS ARE ARRANGED, AND GILLIE WHITE UNDERGOES SOME REMARKABLE
AND HITHERTO UNKNOWN EXPERIENCES.

It is not necessary to inflict on the reader Mrs Stoutley's dinner in detail; suffice it to
say, that Captain Wopper conducted himself, on the whole, much more creditably than his hostess
had anticipated, and made himself so entertaining, especially to Lewis, that that young gentleman
invited him to accompany the family to Switzerland, much to the amusement of his cousin Emma
and the horror of his mother, who, although she enjoyed a private visit of the Captain, did
not relish the thought of his becoming a travelling companion of the family.  She pretended
not to hear the invitation given, but when Lewis, knowing full well the state of her mind,
pressed the invitation, she shook her head at him covertly and frowned.  This by-play her son
pretended not to see, and continued his entreaties, the Captain not having replied.

"Now, do come with us, Captain Wopper," he said; "it will be such fun, and we should all enjoy
you so much--wouldn't we, Emma?"  ("Yes, indeed," from Emma); "and it would just be suited
to your tastes and habits, for the fine, fresh air of the mountains bears a wonderful resemblance
to that of the sea.  You've been accustomed no doubt to climb up the shrouds to the crosstrees;
well, in Switzerland, you may climb up the hills to any sort of trees you like, and get shrouded
in mist, or tumble over a precipice and get put into your shroud altogether; and--"

"Really, Lewie, you ought to be ashamed of making such bad puns," interrupted his mother. 
"Doubtless it would be very agreeable to have Captain Wopper with us, but I am quite sure it
would be anything but pleasant for him to travel through such a wild country with such a wild
goose as you for a companion."

"You have modestly forgotten yourself and Emma," said Lewis; "but come, let the Captain answer
for himself.  You know, mother, it has been your wish, if not your intention, to get a companion
for me on this trip--a fellow older than myself--a sort of travelling tutor, who could teach
me something of the geology and botany of the country as we went along. Well, the Captain is
older than me, I think, which is one of the requisites, and he could teach me astronomy, no
doubt, and show me how to box the compass; in return for which, I could show him how to box
an adversary's nose, as practised by the best authorities of the ring.  As to geology and botany,
I know a little of these sciences already, and could impart my knowledge to the Captain, which
would have the effect of fixing it more firmly in my own memory; and every one knows that it
is of far greater importance to lay a good, solid groundwork of education, than to build a
showy, superficial structure, on a bad foundation. Come, then, Captain, you see your advantages.
This is the last time of asking.  If you don't speak now, henceforth and for ever hold your
tongue."

"Well, my lad," said the Captain, with much gravity, "I've turned the thing over in my mind,
and since Mrs Stoutley is so good as to say it would be agreeable to her, I think I'll accept
your invitation!"

"Bravo!  Captain, you're a true blue; come, have another glass of wine on the strength of it."

"No wine, thank 'ee," said the Captain, placing his hand over his glass, "I've had my beer;
and I make it a rule never to mix my liquor.  Excuse me, ma'am," he continued, addressing his
hostess, "your son made mention of a tooter--a travellin' tooter; may I ask if you've provided
yourself with one yet!"

"Not yet," answered Mrs Stoutley, feeling, but not looking, a little surprised at the question,
"I have no young friend at present quite suited for the position, and at short notice it is
not easy to find a youth of talent willing to go, and on whom one can depend.  Can you recommend
one?"

Mrs Stoutley accompanied the question with a smile, for she put it in jest.  She was, therefore,
not a little surprised when the Captain said promptly that he could--that he knew a young man--a
doctor--who was just the very ticket (these were his exact words), a regular clipper, with
everything about him trim, taut, and ship-shape, who would suit every member of the family
to a tee!

A hearty laugh from every member of the family greeted the Captain's enthusiastic recommendation,
and Emma exclaimed that he must be a most charming youth, while Lewis pulled out pencil and
note-book to take down his name and address.

"You are a most valuable friend at this crisis in our affairs," said Lewis, "I'll make mother
write to him immediately."

"But have a care," said the Captain, "that you never mention who it was that recommended him.
I'm not sure that he would regard it as a compliment.  You must promise me that."

"I promise," said Lewis, "and whatever I promise mother will fulfil, so make your mind easy
on that head.  Now, mother, I shouldn't wonder if Captain Wopper could provide you with that
other little inexpensive luxury you mentioned this morning.  D'you think you could recommend
a page?"

"What's a page, lad?"

"What! have you never heard of a page--a page in buttons?" asked Lewis in surprise.

"Never," replied the Captain, shaking his head.

"Why, a page is a small boy, usually clad in blue tights, to make him look as like a spider
as possible, with three rows of brass buttons up the front of his jacket--two of the rows being
merely ornamental, and going over his shoulders.  He usually wears a man's hat for the sake
of congruity, and is invariably as full of mischief as an egg is of meat. Can you find such
an article?"

"Ha!" exclaimed the Captain.  "What is he used for?"

"Chiefly for ornament, doing messages, being in the way when not wanted, and out of the way
when required."

"Yes," said the Captain, meditatively, "I've got my eye--"

"Your weather eye?" asked Lewis.

"Yes, my weather eye, on a lad who'll fit you."

"To a tee?" inquired Emma, archly.

"To a tee, miss," assented the Captain, with a bland smile.

Lewis again pulled out his note-book to enter the name and address, but the Captain assured
him that he would manage this case himself; and it was finally settled--for Lewis carried everything
his own way, as a matter of course--that Dr George Lawrence was to be written to next day,
and Captain Wopper was to provide a page.

"And you'll have to get him and yourself ready as fast as possible," said the youth in conclusion,
"for we shall set off as soon as my mother's trunks are packed."

Next morning, while Captain Wopper was seated conversing with his old landlady at the breakfast-table--the
morning meal having been just concluded--he heard the voice of Gillie White in the court. 
Going to the end of the passage, he ordered that imp to "come aloft."

Gillie appeared in a few seconds, nodded patronisingly to old Mrs Roby, hoped she was salubrious,
and demanded to know what was up.

"My lad," said the Captain--and as he spoke, the urchin assumed an awful look of mock solemnity.

"I want to know if you think you could behave yourself if you was to try?"

"Ah!" said Gillie, with the air of a cross-examining advocate, "the keewestion is not w'ether
I could behave myself if I wos to try, but, w'ether I think I could.  Well, ahem! that depends.
I think I could, now, if there was offered a very strong indoocement."

"Just so, my lad," returned the Captain, nodding, "that's exactly what I mean to offer.  What
d'ee say to a noo suit of blue tights, with three rows brass buttons; a situation in a respectable
family; a fair wage; as much as you can eat and drink; and a trip to Switzerland to begin with?"

While the Captain spoke, the small boy's eyes opened wider and wider, and his month followed
suit, until he stood the very picture of astonishment.

"You don't mean it?" he exclaimed.

"Indeed I do, my lad."

"Then I'm your man," returned the small boy emphatically, "putt me down for that sitooation;
send for a lawyer, draw up the articles, I'll sign 'em right off, and--"

"Gillie, my boy," interrupted the Captain, "one o' the very first things you have to do in
larnin' to behave yourself is to clap a stopper on your tongue--it's far too long."

"All right, Capp'n," answered the imp, "I'll go to Guy's Hospital d'rectly and 'ave three-fourths
of it ampitated."

"Do," said the Captain, somewhat sternly, "an' ask 'em to attach a brake to the bit that's left.

"Now, lad," he continued, "you've got a very dirty face."

Gillie nodded, with his lips tightly compressed to check utterance.

"And a very ragged head of hair," he added.

Again Gillie nodded.

The Captain pointed to a basin of water which stood on a chair in a corner of the room, beside
which lay a lump of yellow soap, a comb, and a rough jack-towel.

"There," said he, "go to work."

Gillie went to work with a will, and scrubbed himself to such an extent, that his skin must
undoubtedly have been thinner after the operation. The washing, however, was easy compared
with the combing.  The boy's mop was such a tangled web, that the comb at first refused to
pass through it; and when, encouraged by the Captain, the urchin did at last succeed in rending
its masses apart various inextricable bunches came away bodily, and sundry teeth of the comb
were left behind.  At last, however, it was reduced to something like order, to the immense
satisfaction of Mrs Roby and the Captain.

"Now," said the latter, "did you ever have a Turkish bath?"

"No--never."

"Well, then, come with me and have one.  Have you got a cap?"

"Hm--never mind, come along; you're not cleaned up yet by a long way; but we'll manage it in
course of time."

As the Captain and his small protege passed along the streets, the former took occasion to
explain that a Turkish bath was a species of mild torture, in which a man was stewed alive,
and baked in an oven, and par-boiled, and scrubbed, and pinched, and thumped (sometimes black
and blue), and lathered with soap till he couldn't see, and heated up to seven thousand and
ten, Fahrenheit and soused with half-boiling water, and shot at with cold water--or shot into
it, as the case might be--and rolled in a sheet like a mummy, and stretched out a like corpse
to cool. "Most men," he said, "felt gaspy in Turkish baths, and weak ones were alarmed lest
they should get suffocated beyond recovery; but strong men rather enjoy themselves in 'em than
otherwise."

"Hah!" exclaimed the imp, "may I wentur' to ax, Capp'n, wot's the effect on boys?"

To this the Captain replied that he didn't exactly know, never having heard of boys taking
Turkish baths.  Whereupon Gillie suggested, that if possible he might have himself cleaned
in an ordinary bath.

"Impossible, my lad," said the Captain, decidedly.  "No or'nary bath would clean you under
a week, unless black soap and scrubbin' brushes was used.

"But don't be alarmed, Gillie," he added, looking down with a twinkle in his eyes, "I'll go
into the bath along with you.  We'll sink or swim together, my boy, and I'll see that you're
not overdone.  I'm rather fond of them myself, d'ee see, so I can recommend 'em from experience."

Somewhat reassured by this, though still a little uneasy in his mind, the imp followed his
patron to the baths.

It would have been a sight worth seeing, the entrance of these two into the temple of soap-and-water.
To see Gillie's well-made, but very meagre and dirty little limbs unrobed; to see him decked
out with the scrimpest possible little kilt, such as would, perhaps, have suited the fancy
of a Fiji islander; to see his gaze of undisguised admiration on beholding his companion's
towering and massive frame in the same unwonted costume, if we may so style it; to see the
intensifying of his astonishment when ushered into the first room, at beholding six or seven
naked, and apparently dead men, laid round the walls, as if ready for dissection; to see the
monkey-like leap, accompanied by a squeal, with which he sprang from a hot stone-bench, having
sat down thereon before it had been covered with a cloth for his reception; to see the rapid
return of his self-possession in these unusual circumstances, and the ready manner in which
he submitted himself to the various operations, as if he had been accustomed to Turkish baths
from a period long prior to infancy; to see his horror on being introduced to the hottest room,
and his furtive glance at the door, as though he meditated a rush into the open air, but was
restrained by a sense of personal dignity; to see the ruling passion strong as ever in this
(he firmly believed) his nearest approach to death, when, observing that the man next to him
(who, as it were, turned the corner from him) had raised himself for a moment to arrange his
pillow, he (Gillie) tipped up the corner of the man's sheet, which hung close to his face in
such a manner that he (the man), on lying down again, placed his bare shoulder on the hot stone,
and sprang up with a yell that startled into life the whole of the half-sleeping establishment
with the exception of the youth on the opposite bench, who, having noticed the act, was thrown
into convulsions of laughter, much to the alarm of Gillie, who had thought he was asleep and
feared that he might "tell;"--to see him laid down like a little pink-roll to be kneaded, and
to hear him remark, in a calm voice, to the stalwart attendant that he might go in and win
and needn't be afraid of hurting him; to observe his delight when put under the warm "douche,"
his gasping shriek when unexpectedly assailed with the "cold-shower," and his placid air of
supreme felicity when wrapped up like a ghost in a white sheet, and left to dry in the cooling-room--to
see and hear all this, we say, would have amply repaid a special journey to London from any
reasonable distance.  The event, however, being a thing of the past and language being unequal
to the description, we are compelled to leave it all to the reader's imagination.

CHAPTER SIX.

A LESSON TAUGHT AND LEARNED.

Two days after the events narrated in the last chapter, rather late in the evening, Dr George
Lawrence called at "the cabin" in Grubb's Court, and found the Captain taking what he called
a quiet pipe.

"I have been visiting poor Mrs Leven," he said to Mrs Roby, sitting down beside her, "and I
fear she is a good deal worse to-night.  That kind little woman, Netta White, has agreed to
sit by her.  I'm sorry that I shall be obliged to leave her at such a critical stage of her
illness, but I am obliged to go abroad for some time."

"Goin' abroad, sir!" exclaimed Mrs Roby in surprise, for the Captain had not yet told her that
Lawrence was to be of the party, although he had mentioned about himself and Gillie White.

"Yes, I'm going with Mrs Stoutley's family for some weeks to Switzerland."

Captain Wopper felt that his share in the arrangements was in danger of being found out.  He
therefore boldly took the lead.

"Ah!  I know all about that, sir."

"Indeed?" said Lawrence.

"Yes, I dined the other day with Mrs Stoutley; she asked me also to be of the party, and I'm
going."

Lawrence again exclaimed, "Indeed!" with increasing surprise, and added, "Well, now, that is
a strange coincidence."

"Well, d'ee know," said the Captain, in an argumentative tone, "it don't seem to me much of
a coincidence.  You know she had to git some one to go with her son, and why not you, sir,
as well as any of the other young sawbones in London?  If she hadn't got you she'd have got
another, and that would have been a coincidence to him, d'ee see?  Then, as to me, it wasn't
unnatural that she should take a fancy to the man that nussed her dyin' husband, an' was chum
to her brother-in-law; so, you see, that's how it came about and I'm very glad to find, sir,
that we are to sail in company for a short time."

Lawrence returned this compliment heartily, and was about to make some further remark, when
little Netta White rushed into the room with a frightened look and pale cheeks, exclaiming,
"Oh, Dr Lawrence, sir, she's very ill.  I think she's dying."

Without waiting for a reply, the child ran out of the room followed by Lawrence and Mrs Roby,
who was assisted by the Captain--for she walked with great difficulty even when aided by her
crutches.  In a few seconds they stood beside Mrs Leven's bed.  It was a lowly bed, with scant
and threadbare coverings, and she who lay on it was of a lowly spirit--one who for many years
had laid her head on the bosom of Jesus, and had found Him, through a long course of poverty
and mental distress, "a very present help in trouble."

"I fear that I'm very ill," she said, faintly.

"No doubt you feel rather low just now," said the doctor, "but that is very much owing to your
having lived so long on insufficient diet.  I will give you something, however, which will
soon pull you up a bit. Come, cheer up.  Don't let your spirits get so low."

"Yes," she murmured, "I am brought very low, but the Lord will lift me up.  He is my strength
and my Redeemer."

She clasped her hands with difficulty, and shut her eyes.

A silence followed, during which Captain Wopper drew Lawrence into the passage.

"D'you think she is near her end, doctor?"

"She looks very like it," replied the doctor.  "There is a possibility that she might recover
if the right medicine could be found, namely, ease of mind; but her dissipated son has robbed
her of that, and is the only one who can give it back to her--if indeed he has the power left
now.  She is dying of what is unprofessionally styled a broken heart. It is unfortunate that
her son is not with her at present."

"Does no one know where to find him?" asked the Captain.

"I fear not," replied the doctor.

"Please, sir, I think I know," said a subdued voice behind them.

It was that of Gillie White, who had drawn near very silently, being overawed by the sad scene
in the sick-room.

"Do you, my lad? then get along as fast as you can and show me the way," said the Captain,
buttoning up his pilot-coat.  "I'll bring him here before long, doctor, if he's to be found."

In a few minutes the Captain and Gillie were at the head of the lane, where the former hailed
a passing cab, bade the boy jump in, and followed him.

"Now, my lad, give the address," said the Captain.

"The Strand," said the boy, promptly.

"What number, sir?" asked the cabman, looking at the Captain.

"Right on till I stop you," said Gillie, with the air of a commander-in-chief--whom in some
faint manner he now resembled, for he was in livery, being clothed in blue tights and brass
buttons.

In a short time Gillie gave the order to pull up, and they got out in front of a brilliantly-lighted
and open door with a lamp above it, on which was written the word Billiards.  The Captain observed
that it was the same door as that at which he had parted from Lewis Stoutley some days before.

Dismissing the cab and entering, they quickly found themselves in a large and well-lighted
billiard-room, which was crowded with men of all ages and aspects, some of whom played, others
looked on and betted, a good many drank brandy and water, and nearly all smoked.  It was a
bright scene of dissipation, where many young men, deceiving themselves with the idea that
they went merely to practise or to enjoy a noble game of skill, were taking their first steps
on the road to ruin.

The Captain, closely attended by Gillie, moved slowly through the room, looking anxiously for
Fred Leven.  For some time they failed to find him.  At last a loud curse, uttered in the midst
of a knot of on-lookers, attracted their attention.  It was followed by a general laugh, as
a young man, whose dishevelled hair and flushed face showed that he had been drinking hard,
burst from among them and staggered towards the door.

"Never mind, Fred," shouted a voice that seemed familiar to the Captain, "you'll win it back
from me next time."

Ere the youth had passed, the Captain stepped forward and laid his hand on his arm.

Fred uttered a savage growl, and drew back his clenched hand as if to strike, but Captain Wopper's
size and calm look of decision induced him to hold his hand.

"What d'you mean by interrupting me?" he demanded, sternly.

"My lad," said the Captain, in a low, solemn voice, "your mother is dying, come with me.  You've
no time to lose."

The youth's face turned ashy pale, and he passed his hand hastily across his brow.

"What's wrong?" exclaimed Lewis Stoutley, who had recognised the Captain, and come forward
at the moment.

"Did he lose his money to you?" asked the Captain, abruptly.

"Well, yes, he did," retorted Lewis, with a look of offended dignity.

"Come along, then, my lad.  I want you too.  It's a case of life an' death.  Ask no questions,
but come along."

The Captain said this with such an air of authority, that Lewis felt constrained to obey. 
Fred Leven seemed to follow like one in a dream. They all got into a cab, and were driven back
to Grubb's Court.

As they ascended the stair, the Captain whispered to Lewis, "Keep in the background, my lad.
Do nothing but look and listen."

Another moment and they were in the passage, where Lawrence stopped them.

"You're almost too late, sir," he said to Fred, sternly.  "If you had fed and clothed your
mother better in time past, she might have got over this.  Fortunately for her, poor soul,
some people, who don't gamble away their own and their parents' means, have given her the help
that you have refused.  Go in, sir, and try to speak words of comfort to her now."

He went in, and fell on his knees beside the bed.

"Mother!" he said.

Fain would he have said more, but no word could he utter.  His tongue seemed to cleave to the
roof of his mouth.  Mrs Leven opened her eyes on hearing the single word, and her cheek flushed
slightly as she seized one of his hands, kissed it and held it to her breast.  Then she looked
earnestly, and oh! so anxiously, into his face, and said in a low tone:--

"Fred, dear, are you so--"

She stopped abruptly.

"Yes, yes," cried her son, passionately; "yes, mother, I'm sober now! Oh mother, dearest, darling
mother, I am guilty, guilty; I have sinned. Oh forgive, forgive me!  Listen, listen!  I am
in earnest now, my mother.  Think of me as I used to be long ago.  Don't shut your eyes. Look
at me, mother, look at Fred."

The poor woman looked at him with tears of gladness in her eyes.

"God bless you, Fred!" she murmured.  "It is long, long, since you spoke like that.  But I
knew you would.  I have always expected that you would.  Praise the Lord!"

Fred tried to speak, and again found that he could not, but the fountain of his soul was opened.
He laid his face on his mother's hand and sobbed bitterly.

Those who witnessed this scene stood as if spellbound.  As far as sound or motion went these
two might have been in the room alone.  Presently the sound of sobbing ceased, and Fred, raising
his head, began gently to stroke the hand he held in his.  Sometime in his wild career, he
knew not when or where, he had heard it said that this slight action had often a wonderful
power to soothe the sick.  He continued it for some time.  Then the doctor advanced and gazed
into the invalid's countenance.

"She sleeps," he said, in a low tone.

"May I stay beside her?" whispered Fred.

Lawrence nodded assent, and then motioning to the others to withdraw, followed them into Mrs
Roby's room, where he told them that her sleeping was a good sign, and that they must do their
best to prevent her being disturbed.

"It won't be necessary for any one to watch.  Her son will prove her best attendant just now;
but it may be as well that some one should sit up in this room, and look in now and then to
see that the candle doesn't burn out, and that all is right.  I will go now, and will make
this my first visit in the morning."

"Captain Wopper," said Lewis Stoutley, in a subdued voice, when Lawrence had left, "I won this
ten-pound note to-night from Fred.  I--I robbed him of it.  Will you give it to him in the
morning?"

"Yes, my lad, I will," said the Captain.

"And will you let me sit up and watch here tonight?"

"No, my lad, I won't.  I mean to do that myself."

"But do let me stay an hour or so with you, in case anything is wanted," pleaded Lewis.

"Well, you may."

They sat down together by the fireside, Mrs Roby having lain down on her bed with her clothes
on, but they spoke never a word; and as they sat there, the young man's busy brain arrayed
before him many and many a scene of death, and sickness, and suffering, and sorrow, and madness,
and despair, which, he knew well from hearsay (and he now believed it), had been the terrible
result of gambling and drink.

When the hour was past, the Captain rose and said, "Now, Lewis, you'll go, and I'll take a
look at the next room."

He put off his shoes and went on tiptoe.  Lewis followed, and took a peep before parting.

Fred had drawn three chairs to the bedside and lain down on them, with his shoulders resting
on the edge of the bed, so that he could continue to stroke his mother's hand without disturbing
her.  He had continued doing so until his head had slowly drooped upon the pillow; and there
they now lay, the dissipated son and the humble Christian mother, sleeping quietly together.

CHAPTER SEVEN.

THE GREAT WHITE MOUNTAIN.

We are in Switzerland now; in the "land of the mountain and the flood"-- the land also of perennial
ice and snow.  The solemn presence of the Great White Mountain is beginning to be felt.  Its
pure summit was first seen from Geneva; its shadow is now beginning to steal over us.

We are on the road to Chamouni, not yet over the frontier, in a carriage and four.  Mrs Stoutley,
being a lady of unbounded wealth, always travels post in a carriage and four when she can manage
to do so, having an unconquerable antipathy to railroads and steamers.  She could not well
travel in any other fashion here, railways not having yet penetrated the mountain regions in
this direction, and a mode of ascending roaring mountain torrents in steamboats not having
yet been discovered.  She might, however, travel with two horses, but she prefers four.  Captain
Wopper, who sits opposite Emma Gray, wonders in a quiet speculative way whether "the Mines"
will produce a dividend sufficient to pay the expenses of this journey.  He is quite disinterested
in the thought, it being understood that the Captain pays his own expenses.

But we wander from our text, which is--the Great White Mountain.  We are driving now under
its shadow with Mrs Stoutley's party, which, in addition to the Captain and Miss Gray, already
mentioned, includes young Dr George Lawrence and Lewis, who are on horseback; also Mrs Stoutley's
maid (Mrs Stoutley never travels without a maid), Susan Quick, who sits beside the Captain;
and Gillie White, alias the Spider and the Imp, who sits beside the driver, making earnest
but futile efforts to draw him into a conversation in English, of which language the driver
knows next to nothing.

But to return: Mrs Stoutley and party are now in the very heart of scenery the most magnificent;
they have penetrated to a great fountain-head of European waters; they are surrounded by the
cliffs, the gorges, the moraines, and are not far from the snow-slopes and ice-fields, the
couloirs, the seracs, the crevasses, and the ice-precipices and pinnacles of a great glacial
world; but not one of the party betrays the smallest amount of interest, or expresses the faintest
emotion of surprise, owing to the melancholy fact that all is shrouded in an impenetrable veil
of mist through which a thick fine rain percolates as if the mountain monarch himself were
bewailing their misfortunes.

"Isn't it provoking?" murmured Mrs Stoutley drawing her shawl closer.

"Very," replied Emma.

"Disgusting!" exclaimed Lewis, who rode at the side of the carriage next his cousin.

"It might be worse," said Lawrence, with a grim smile.

"Impossible," retorted Lewis.

"Come, Captain, have you no remark to make by way of inspiring a little hope?" asked Mrs Stoutley.

"Why, never havin' cruised in this region before," answered the Captain, "my remarks can't
be of much value.  Hows'ever, there is one idea that may be said to afford consolation, namely,
that this sort o' thing can't last.  I've sailed pretty nigh in all parts of the globe, an'
I've invariably found that bad weather has its limits--that after rain we may look for sunshine,
and after storm, calm."

"How cheering!" said Lewis, as the rain trickled from the point of his prominent nose.

At that moment Gillie White, happening to cast his eyes upward, beheld a vision which drew
from him an exclamation of wild surprise.

They all looked quickly in the same direction, and there, through a rent in the watery veil,
they beheld a little spot of blue sky, rising into which was a mountain-top so pure, so faint
so high and inexpressibly far off, yet so brilliant in a glow of sunshine, that it seemed as
if heaven had been opened, and one of the hills of Paradise revealed.  It was the first near
view that the travellers had obtained of these mountains of everlasting ice.  With the exception
of the exclamations "Wonderful!" "Most glorious!" they found no words for a time to express
their feelings, and seemed glad to escape the necessity of doing so by listening to the remarks
of their driver, as he went into an elaborate explanation of the name and locality of the particular
part of Mont Blanc that had been thus disclosed.

The rent in the mist closed almost as quickly as it had opened, utterly concealing the beautiful
vision; but the impression it had made, being a first and a very deep one, could never more
be removed.  The travellers lived now in the faith of what they had seen.  Scepticism was no
longer possible, and in this improved frame of mind they dashed into the village of Chamouni--one
of the haunts of those whose war-cry is "Excelsior!"--and drove to the best hotel.

Their arrival in the village was an unexpected point of interest to many would-be mountaineers,
who lounged about the place with macintoshes and umbrellas, growling at the weather.  Any event
out of the common forms a subject of interest to men who wait and have nothing to do.  As the
party passed them, growlers gazed and speculated as to who the new-comers might be.  Some thought
Miss Gray pretty; some thought otherwise--to agree on any point on such a day being, of course,
impossible.  Others "guessed" that the young fellows must be uncommonly fond of riding to "get
on the outside of a horse" in such weather; some remarked that the "elderly female" seemed
"used up," or "blasee," and all agreed--yes, they did agree on this point--that the thing in
blue tights and buttons beside the driver was the most impudent-looking monkey the world had
ever produced!

The natives of the place also had their opinions, and expressed them to each other; especially
the bronzed, stalwart sedate-looking men who hung about in knots near the centre of the village,
and seemed to estimate the probability of the stout young Englishmen on horseback being likely
to require their services often--for these, said the driver, were the celebrated guides of
Chamouni; men of bone and muscle, and endurance and courage; the leaders of those daring spirits
who consider--and justly so--the ascent to the summit of Mont Blanc, or Monte Rosa, or the
Matterhorn, a feat; the men who perform this feat it may be, two or three times a week--as
often as you choose to call them to it, in fact-- and think nothing of it; the men whose profession
it is to risk their lives every summer from day to day for a few francs; who have become so
inured to danger that they have grown quite familiar with it, insomuch that some of the reckless
blades among them treat it now and then with contempt, and pay the penalty of such conduct
with their lives.

Sinking into a couch in her private sitting-room, Mrs Stoutley resigned herself to Susan's
care, and, while she was having her boots taken off, said with a sigh:--

"Well, here we are at last.  What do you think of Chamouni, Susan?"

"Rather a wet place, ma'am; ain't it?"

With a languid smile, Mrs Stoutley admitted that it was, but added, by way of encouragement
that it was not always so.  To which Susan replied that she was glad to hear it, so she was,
as nothink depressed her spirits so much as wet and clouds, and gloom.

Susan was a pretty girl of sixteen, tall, as well as very sedate and womanly, for her age.
Having been born in one of the midland counties, of poor, though remarkably honest, parents,
who had received no education themselves, and therefore held it to be quite unnecessary to
bestow anything so useless on their daughter, she was, until very recently, as ignorant of
all beyond the circle of her father's homestead as the daughter of the man in the moon--supposing
no compulsory education-act to be in operation in the orb of night.  Having passed through
them, she now knew of the existence of France and Switzerland, but she was quite in the dark
as to the position of these two countries with respect to the rest of the world, and would
probably have regarded them as one and the same if their boundary-line had not been somewhat
deeply impressed upon her by the ungallant manner in which the Customs officials examined the
contents of her modest little portmanteau in search, as Gillie gave her to understand, of tobacco.

Mrs Stoutley had particularly small feet, a circumstance which might have induced her, more
than other ladies, to wear easy boots; but owing to some unaccountable perversity of mental
constitution, she deemed this a good reason for having her boots made unusually tight.  The
removal of these, therefore, afforded great relief, and the administration of a cup of tea
produced a cheering reaction of spirits, under the influence of which she partially forgot
herself, and resolved to devote a few minutes to the instruction of her interestingly ignorant
maid.

"Yes," she said, arranging herself comfortably, and sipping her tea, while Susan busied herself
putting away her lady's "things," and otherwise tidying the room, "it does not always rain
here; there is a little sunshine sometimes.  By the way, where is Miss Gray?"

"In the bedroom, ma'am, unpacking the trunks."

"Ah, well, as I was saying, they have a little sunshine sometimes, for you know, Susan, people
must live, and grass or grain cannot grow without sunshine, so it has been arranged that there
should be enough here for these purposes, but no more than enough, because Switzerland has
to maintain its character as one of the great refrigerators of Europe."

"One of the what, ma'am?"

"Refrigerators," explained Mrs Stoutley; "a refrigerator, Susan, is a freezer; and it is the
special mission of Switzerland to freeze nearly all the water that falls on its mountains,
and retain it there in the form of ice and snow until it is wanted for the use of man.  Isn't
that a grand idea?"

The lecturer's explanation had conveyed to Susan's mind the idea of the Switzers going with
long strings of carts to the top of Mont Blanc for supplies of ice to meet the European demand,
and she admitted that it was a grand idea, and asked if the ice and snow lasted long into the
summer.

"Long into it!" exclaimed her teacher.  "Why, you foolish thing, its lasts all through it."

"Oh indeed, ma'am!" said Susan, who entertained strong doubts in her heart as to the correctness
of Mrs Stoutley's information on this point.

"Yes," continued that lady, with more animation than she had experienced for many months past,
so invigorating was the change of moral atmosphere induced by this little breeze of instruction;
"yes, the ice and snow cover the hills and higher valleys for dozens and dozens of miles round
here in all directions, not a few inches deep, such as we sometimes see in England, but with
thousands and millions of tons of it, so that the ice in the valleys is hundreds of feet thick,
and never melts away altogether, but remains there from year to year--has been there, I suppose,
since the world began, and will continue, I fancy, until the world comes to an end."

Mrs Stoutley warmed up here, to such an extent that she absolutely flushed, and Susan, who
had heretofore regarded her mistress merely as a weakish woman, now set her down, mentally,
as a barefaced story-teller.

"Surely, ma'am," she said, with diffidence, "ice and snow like that doesn't fill all the valleys,
else we should see it, and find it difficult to travel through 'em; shouldn't we, ma'am?"

"Silly girl!" exclaimed her preceptress, "I did not say it filled all the valleys, but the
higher valleys--valleys such as, in England and Scotland, would be clothed with pasturage and
waving grain, and dotted with cattle and sheep and smiling cottages."

Mrs Stoutley had by this time risen to a heroic frame, and spoke poetically, which accounts
for her ascribing risible powers to cottages.

"And thus you see, Susan," she continued, "Switzerland is, as it were, a great ice-tank, or
a series of ice-tanks, in which the ice of ages is accumulated and saved up, so that the melting
of a little of it--the mere dribbling of it, so to speak--is sufficient to cause the continuous
flow of innumerable streams and of great rivers, such as the Rhone, and the Rhine, and the Var."

The lecture received unexpected and appropriate illustration here by the sudden lifting of
the mists, which had hitherto blotted out the landscape.

"Oh, aunt!" exclaimed Emma, running in at the moment, "just look at the hills.  How exquisite!
How much grander than if we had seen them quite clear from the first!"

Emma was strictly correct, for it is well known that the grandeur of Alpine scenery is greatly
enhanced by the wild and weird movements of the gauze-like drapery with which it is almost
always partially enshrouded.

As the trio stood gazing in silent wonder and admiration from their window, which, they had
been informed, commanded a view of the summit of Mont Blanc, the mist had risen like a curtain
partially rolled up.  All above the curtain-foot presented the dismal grey, to which they had
been too long accustomed, but below, and, as it were, far behind this curtain, the mountain-world
was seen rising upwards.

So close were they to the foot of the Great White Monarch, that it seemed to tower like a giant-wall
before them; but this wall was varied and beautiful as well as grand.  Already the curtain
had risen high enough to disclose hoary cliffs and precipices, with steep grassy slopes between,
and crowned with fringes of dark pines; which latter, although goodly trees, looked like mere
shrubs in their vast setting.  Rills were seen running like snowy veins among the slopes, and
losing themselves in the masses of debris at the mountain-foot.  As they gazed, the curtain
rose higher, disclosing new and more rugged features, on which shone a strange, unearthly light--the
result of shadow from the mist and sunshine behind it--while a gleam of stronger light tipped
the curtain's under-edge in one direction.  Still higher it rose!  Susan exclaimed that the
mountain was rising into heaven; and Emma and Mrs Stoutley, whose reading had evidently failed
to impress them with a just conception of mountain-scenery, stood with clasped hands in silent
expectancy and admiration.  The gleam of stronger light above referred to, widened, and Susan
almost shrieked with ecstasy when the curtain seemed to rend, and the gleam resolved itself
into the great Glacier des Bossons, which, rolling over the mountain-brow like a very world
of ice, thrust its mighty tongue down into the valley.

From that moment Susan's disbelief in her lady's knowledge changed into faith, and deepened
into profound veneration.

It was, however, only a slight glimpse that had been thus afforded of the ice-world by which
they were surrounded.  The great ice-fountain of those regions, commencing at the summit of
Mont Blanc, flings its ample waves over mountain and vale in all directions, forming a throne
on which perpetual winter reigns, and this glacier des Bossons, which filled the breasts of
our travellers with such feelings of awe, was but one of the numerous rivers which flow from
the fountain down the gorges and higher valleys of the Alps, until they reach those regions
where summer heat asserts itself, and checks their further progress in the form of ice by melting
them.

"Is it possible," said Emma, as she gazed at the rugged and riven mass of solid ice before
her, "that a glacier really flows?"

"So learned men tell us, and so we must believe," said Mrs Stoutley.

"Flows, ma'am?" exclaimed Susan, in surprise.

"Yes, so it is said," replied Mrs Stoutley, with a smile.

"But we can see, ma'am, by lookin' at it, that it don't flow; can't we, ma'am?" said Susan.

"True, Susan, it does not seem to move; nevertheless scientific men tell us that it does, and
sometimes we are bound to believe against the evidence of our senses."

Susan looked steadily at the glacier for some time; and then, although she modestly held her
tongue, scientific men fell considerably in her esteem.

While the ladies were thus discussing the glacier and enlightening their maid, Lewis, Lawrence,
and the Captain, taking advantage of the improved state of the weather, had gone out for a
stroll, partly with a view, as Lewis said, to freshen up their appetites for dinner--although,
to say truth, the appetites of all three were of such a nature as to require no freshening
up.  They walked smartly along the road which leads up the valley, pausing, ever and anon,
to look back in admiration at the wonderful glimpses of scenery disclosed by the lifting mists.
Gradually these cleared away altogether, and the mountain summits stood out well defined against
the clear sky.  And then, for the first time, came a feeling of disappointment.

"Why, Lawrence," said Lewis, "didn't they tell us that we could see the top of Mont Blanc from
Chamouni?"

"They certainly did," replied Lawrence, "but I can't see it."

"There are two or three splendid-looking peaks," said Lewis, pointing up the valley, "but surely
that's not the direction of the top we look for."

"No, my lad, it ain't the right point o' the compass by a long way," said the Captain; "but
yonder goes a strange sail a-head, let's overhaul her."

"Heave a-head then, Captain," said Lewis, "and clap on stun's'ls and sky-scrapers, for the
strange sail is making for that cottage on the hill, and will get into port before we overhaul
her if we don't look sharp."

The "strange sail" was a woman.  She soon turned into the cottage referred to, but our travellers
followed her up, arranging, as they drew near, that Lawrence, being the best French scholar
of the three (the Captain knowing nothing whatever of the language), should address her.

She turned out to be a very comely young woman, the wife, as she explained, of one of the Chamouni
guides, named Antoine Grennon.  Her daughter, a pretty blue-eyed girl of six or so, was busy
arranging a casket of flowers, and the grandmother of the family was engaged in that mysterious
mallet-stone-scrubbing-brush-and-cold-water system, whereby the washerwomen of the Alps convert
the linen of tourists into shreds and patches in the shortest possible space of time.

After some complimentary remarks, Lawrence asked if it were possible to see the summit of Mont
Blanc from where they stood.

Certainly it was; the guide's pretty wife could point it out and attempted to do so, but was
for a long time unsuccessful, owing to the interference of preconceived notions--each of our
travellers having set his heart upon beholding a majestic peak of rugged rock, mingled, perhaps,
with ice-blocks and snow.

"Most extraordinary," exclaimed the puzzled Captain, "I've squinted often enough at well-known
peaks when on the look-out for landmarks from the sea, an' never failed to make 'em out.  Let
me see," he added, getting behind the woman so as to look straight along her outstretched arm,
"no, I can't see it.  My eyes must be giving way."

"Surely," said Lawrence, "you don't mean that little piece of smooth snow rising just behind
the crest of yonder mountain like a bit of rounded sugar?"

"Oui, monsieur"--that was precisely what she meant; that was the summit of Mont Blanc.

And so, our three travellers--like many hundreds of travellers who had gone before them, and
like many, doubtless, who shall follow--were grievously disappointed with their first view
of Mont Blanc!  They lived, however to change their minds, to discover that the village of
Chamouni lies too close to the toe of the Great White Mountain to permit of his being seen
to advantage.  One may truly see a small scrap of the veritable top from Chamouni, but one
cannot obtain an idea of what it is that he sees.  As well might a beetle walk close up to
the heel of a man, and attempt from that position to form a correct estimate of his size; as
well might one plant himself two inches distant from a large painting and expect to do it justice!
No, in order to understand Mont Blanc, to "realise" it, to appreciate it adequately, it requires
that we should stand well back, and get up on one of the surrounding heights, and make the
discovery that as we rise he rises, and looks vaster and more tremendous the further off we
go and the higher up we rise, until, with foot planted on the crest of one of the neighbouring
giants, we still look up, as well as down, and learn--with a feeling of deeper reverence, it
may be, for the Maker of the "everlasting hills"--that the grand monarch with the hoary head
does in reality tower supreme above them all.

CHAPTER EIGHT.

INTRODUCES THE READER TO VARIOUS PERSONAGES, AND TOUCHES ON GLACIERS.

At this time our travellers, having only just been introduced to the mountain, had a great
deal to hear and see before they understood him. They returned to the hotel with the feeling
of disappointment still upon them, but with excellent appetites for dinner.

In the Salle a manger they met with a miscellaneous assortment of tourists.  These, of whom
there were above thirty, varied not only as to size and feature, but as to country and experience.
There were veteran Alpine men--steady, quiet, bronzed-looking fellows, some of them--who looked
as if they had often "attacked" and conquered the most dangerous summits, and meant to do so
again.  There were men, and women too, from England, America, Germany, France, and Russia.
Some had been at Chamouni before, and wore the self-possessed air of knowledge; others had
obviously never been there before, and were excited.  Many were full of interest and expectation,
a few, chiefly very young men, wore a blase, half-pitiful, half-patronising air, as though
to say, "that's right, good people, amuse yourselves with your day-dreams while you may. We
have tried a few weeks of this sort of thing, and have done a summit or two; in imagination
we have also been up Mont Blanc and Monte Rosa, and the Matterhorn, and a few of the Hymalaya
peaks, and most of the mountains in the moon, and several of the fixed stars, and--haw--are
now rather boa-ord with it all than otherwise!"  There were men who had done much and who said
little, and men who had done little and who spoke much.  There were "ice-men" who had a desire
to impart their knowledge, and would-be ice-men who were glad to listen.  Easy-going men and
women there were, who flung the cares of life behind them, and "went in," as they said, for
enjoyment; and who, with abounding animal spirits, a dash of religious sentiment, much irrepressible
humour and fun, were really pleasant objects to look at, and entertaining companions to travel
with. Earnest men and women there were, too, who gathered plants and insects, and made pencil-sketches
and water-colour drawings during their rambles among mountains and valleys, and not a few of
whom chronicled faithfully their experiences from day to day.  There was a Polish Count, a
tall, handsome, middle-aged, care-worn, anxious-looking man, who came there, apparently in
search of health, and who was cared for and taken care of by a dark-eyed little daughter. 
This daughter was so beautiful, that it ought to have made the Count well--so thought most
of the young men-- simply to look at her!  There was a youthful British Lord, who had come
to "do" Mont Blanc and a few other peaks.  He was under charge of a young man of considerable
experience in mountaineering, whose chief delight seemed to be the leading of his charge to
well-known summits by any other and more difficult tracks than the obvious and right ones,
insomuch that Lewis Stoutley, who had a tendency to imprudent remark, said in his hearing that
he had heard of men who, in order to gain the roof of a house, preferred to go up by the waterspout
rather than the staircase.  There was an artist, whom Lewis--being, as already observed, given
to insolence--styled the mad artist because he was enthusiastic in his art, galvanic in his
actions, and had large, wild eyes, with long hair, and a broad-brimmed conical hat.  Besides
these, there was a Russian Professor, who had come there for purposes of scientific investigation,
and a couple of German students, and a Scotch man of letters, whose aim was general observation,
and several others, whose end was simply seeing the world.

In the arrangements of the table, Captain Wopper found himself between Emma Gray and the Polish
Count, whose name was Horetzki.  Directly opposite to him sat Mrs Stoutley, having her son
Lewis on her right, and Dr Lawrence on her left.  Beside the Count sat his lovely little daughter
Nita, and just opposite to her was the mad artist.  This arrangement was maintained throughout
the sojourn of the various parties during their stay at Chamouni.  They did, indeed, shift
their position as regarded the table, according to the arrival or departure of travellers,
but not in regard to each other.

Now it is an interesting, but by no means surprising fact, that Cupid planted himself in the
midst of this party, and, with his fat little legs, in imminent danger of capsizing the dishes,
began to draw his bow and let fly his arrows right and left.  Being an airy sprite, though
fat, and not at any time particularly visible, a careless observer might have missed seeing
him; but to any one with moderate powers of observation, he was there, straddling across a
dish of salad as plain as the salt-cellar before Captain Wopper's nose.  His deadly shafts,
too, were visibly quivering in the breasts of Lewis Stoutley, George Lawrence, and the mad
artist.  Particularly obvious were these shafts in the case of the last, who was addicted to
gazing somewhat presumptuously on "lovely woman" in general, from what he styled an artistic
point of view--never from any other point of view; of course not.

Whether or not Cupid had discharged his artillery at the young ladies, we cannot say, for they
betrayed no evidence of having been wounded.  In their case, he must either have missed his
aim, or driven his shafts home with such vigour, that they were buried out of sight altogether
in their tender hearts.  It is probable that not one member of that miscellaneous company gave
a thought at that time to the wounded men, except the wounded men themselves, so absorbing
is the love of food! The wounded were, however, sharp-set in all respects.  They at once descried
each other's condition, and, instead of manifesting sympathy with each other, were, strange
to say, filled with intense jealousy. This at least is true of the younger men.  Lawrence,
being somewhat older, was more secretive and self-possessed.

At first Captain Wopper, having declined a dish of cauliflower because it was presented alone,
and having afterwards accepted a mutton chop alone, with feelings of poignant regret that he
had let the cauliflower go by, was too busy to observe what the heathen-mythological youngster
was doing.  Indeed, at most times, the said youngster might have discharged a whole quiver
of arrows into the Captain's eyes without his being aware of the attack; but, at the present
time, the Captain, as the reader is aware, was up to the eyes in a plot in which Cupid's aid
was necessary; he had, as it were, invoked the fat child's presence. When, therefore, he had
got over the regrets about the cauliflower, and had swallowed the mutton-chop, he began to
look about him--to note the converse that passed between the young men, and the frequent glances
they cast at the young women.

It was not the first time that the Captain had, so to speak, kept his weather-eye open in regard
to the affection which he had made up his mind must now have been awakened in the breasts of
George Lawrence and Emma Gray; but hitherto his hopes, although sanguine, had not received
encouragement.  Though polite and respectful to each other, they were by no means tender; altogether,
they acted quite differently from what the Captain felt that he would have done in similar
circumstances.  A suspicion had even crossed the poor seaman's mind that Emma was in love with
her handsome and rattling cousin Lewis; but anxiety on this head was somewhat allayed by other
and conflicting circumstances, such as occasional remarks by Lewis, to the effect that Emma
was a goose, or a pert little monkey, or that she knew nothing beyond house-keeping and crochet,
and similar compliments.  Now, however, in a certain animated conversation between Lawrence
and Emma, the designing seaman thought he saw the budding of his deep-laid plans, and fondly
hoped ere long to behold the bud developed into the flower of matrimony.  Under this conviction
he secretly hugged himself, but in the salon, that evening, he opened his arms and released
himself on beholding the apparently fickle Lawrence deeply engaged in converse with the Count
Horetzki, to whose pretty daughter, however, he addressed the most of his remarks.

The Captain, being a blunt honest, straightforward man, could not understand this state of
matters, and fell into a fit of abstracted perplexity on the sofa beside Mrs Stoutley, who
listened listlessly to the Russian Professor as he attempted to explain to her and Emma the
nature of a glacier.

"Well, I don't understand it at all," said Mrs Stoutley, at the end of one of the Professor's
most lucid expositions.

We may remark, in passing, that the Professor, like many of his countrymen, was a good linguist
and spoke English well.

"Not understand it!" he exclaimed, with a slight elevation of his eyebrows.  "My dear madam,
it is most plain, but I fear my want of good English does render me not quite intelligible."

"Your English is excellent," replied Mrs Stoutley, with a smile, "but I fear that my brain
is not a sufficiently clear one on such matters, for I confess that I cannot understand it.
Can you, Captain Wopper?"

"Certainly not, ma'am," answered the Captain, thinking of the fickle Lawrence; "it takes the
wind out of my sails entirely."

"Indeed!" said the Professor.  "Well, do permit me to try again.  You understand that all the
mountain-tops and elevated plateaus, for many miles around here, are covered with ice and snow."

"Oh!" exclaimed the Captain, awaking to the fact that his answer was not relevant; "may I ax
what is the particular pint that puzzles you, ma'am?"

Emma laughed aloud at this, and coughed a little to conceal the fact. She was rather easily
taken by surprise with passing touches of the ludicrous, and had not yet acquired the habit
of effectually suppressing little explosions of undertoned mirth.

"The thing that puzzles me," said Mrs Stoutley, "is, that glaciers should flow, as I am told
they do, and yet that they should be as hard and brittle as glass."

"Ah, well, yes, just so, h'm!" said the Captain, looking very wise; "that is exactly the pint
that I want to know myself; for no man who looks at the great tongue of that glacier day Bossung--"

"Des Bossons," said the Professor, with a bland smile.

"Day Bossong," repeated the Captain, "can deny that it is marked with all the lines, and waves,
an eddies of a rollin' river, an' yet as little can they deny that it seems as hard-and-fast
as the rock of Gibraltar."

The Professor nodded approvingly.

"You are right, Captain Whipper--"

"Wopper," said the Captain, with a grave nod.

"Wopper," repeated the Professor, "the glacier des Bossons, like all the other glaciers, seems
to remain immovable, though in reality it flows-- ever flows--downward; but its motion is so
slow, that it is not perceptible to the naked eye.  Similarly, the hour-hand of a watch is
to appearance motionless.  Do you want proof?  Mark it just now; look again in quarter of an
hour, and you see that it has moved.  You are convinced.  It is so with the glacier.  Mark
him to-day, go back to-morrow--the mark has changed.  Some glaciers flow at the rate of two
and three feet in the twenty-four hours."

"Yes, but how do they flow, being so brittle?" demanded Mrs Stoutley.

"Ay, that's the pint, Professor," said the Captain, nodding, "how do they flow, bein' made
of hard and brittle ice?"

"Why, by rolling higgledy-piggledy over itself of course," said Lewis, flippantly, as he came
up and sat down on the end of the sofa, being out of humour with himself and everybody in consequence
of having utterly failed to gain the attention of Nita Horetzki, although he had made unusually
earnest efforts to join in conversation with her father. Owing to somewhat similar feelings,
the artist had flung himself into a chair, and sat glaring at the black fireplace with a degree
of concentration that ought to have lighted the firewood therein.

"The cause of a glacier flowing," said the Professor, "has long been a disputed point.  Some
men of science have held that it is the pressure of ice and snow behind it which causes it
to flow.  They do not think that it flows like water, but say it is forced from behind, and
crushed through gorges and down valleys, as it were, unwillingly.  They say that, if left alone,
as they now are, without additions, from this time forward, glaciers would no longer move;
they would rest, and slowly melt away; that their motion is due to the fact that there are
miles and miles of snow-fields, thousands of feet deep, on the mountain-tops and in the gorges,
to which fresh snows are added every winter, so that the weight of what is behind, slipping
off the slopes and falling from the cliffs, crushes down and forward that which is below; thus
glaciers cannot choose but advance."

"Ay, ay," said the Captain, "no doubt no doubt that may be so; but why is it that, bein' as
brittle as glass, a glacier don't come rumblin' and clatterin' down the valleys in small hard
bits, like ten thousand millions of smashed-up chandeliers?"

"Ay, there's the rub," exclaimed Lewis; "what say you to that?"

"Ha!" exclaimed the Professor, again smiling blandly, "there you have touched what once was,
and, to some philosophers it seems, still is, the great difficulty.  By some great men it has
been held that glacier ice is always in a partially soft, viscid, or semi-fluid condition,
somewhat like pitch, so that, although apparently a solid, brittle, and rigid body, it flows
sluggishly in reality.  Other philosophers have denied this theory, insisting that the ice
of glaciers is not like pitch, but like glass, and that it cannot be squeezed without being
broken, nor drawn without being cracked.  These philosophers have discovered that when ice
is subjected to great pressure it melts, and that, when the pressure is removed, the part so
melted immediately freezes again--hence the name regelation, or re-freezing, is given to the
process.  Thus a glacier, they say, is in many places being continually melted and continually
and instantaneously re-frozen, so that it is made to pass through narrow gorges, and to open
out again when the enormous pressure has been removed.  But this theory of regelation, although
unquestionably true, and although it exercises some influence on glacier motion, does not,
in my opinion, alone account for it.  The opinion which seems to be most in favour among learned
men--and that which I myself hold firmly--is, the theory of the Scottish Professor Forbes,
namely, that a glacier is a semi-fluid body, it is largely impregnated throughout its extent
with water, its particles move round and past each other--in other words, it flows in precisely
the same manner as water, the only difference being that it is not quite so fluid; it is sluggish
in its flow, but it certainly models itself to the ground over which it is forced by its own
gravity, and it is only rent or broken into fragments when it is compelled to turn sharp angles,
or to pass over steep convex slopes.  Forbes, by his careful measurements and investigations,
proved incontestably that in some glaciers the central portion travelled down its valley at
double or treble the rate of its sides, without the continuity of the mass being broken.  In
small masses, indeed, glacier-ice is to all appearance rigid, but on a large scale it is unquestionably
ductile."

"Has the theory of regelation been put to the proof?" asked Lewis, with a degree of interest
in glaciers which he had never before felt.

"It has," answered the Professor.  "An experimentalist once cut a bar of solid ice, like to
a bar of soap in form and size, from a glacier.  To this an iron weight of several pounds was
suspended by means of a very fine wire, which was tied round the bar.  The pressure of the
wire melted the ice under it; as the water escaped it instantly re-froze above the wire; thus
the wire went on cutting its way through the bar, and the water went on freezing, until at
last the weight fell to the ground, and left the bar as solid and entire as if it had never
been cut."

"Well, now," said Captain Wopper, bringing his hand down on his thigh with a slap that did
more to arouse Mrs Stoutley out of her languor than the Professor's lecture on glacier ice,
"I've sailed round the world, I have, an' seen many a strange sight, and what I've got to say
is that I'll believe that when I see it."

"You shall see it soon then, I hope," said the Professor, more blandly than ever, "for I intend
to verify this experiment along with several others.  I go to the Mer de Glace, perhaps as
far as the Jardin, to-morrow.  Will you come?"

"What may the Jardang be?" asked the Captain.

"Hallo! monkey, what's wrong?" said Lewis to Emma, referring to one of the undertoned safety-valves
before mentioned.

"Nothing," replied Emma, pursing her little lips till they resembled a cherry.

"The Jardin, or garden," said the Professor, "is a little spot of exquisite beauty in the midst
of the glaciers, where a knoll of green grass and flowers peeps up in the surrounding sterility.
It is one of the regular excursions from Chamouni."

"Can ladies go?" asked Lewis.

"Young and active ladies can," said the Professor, with his blandest possible smile, as he
bowed to Emma.

"Then, we'll all go together," cried Lewis, with energy.

"Not all," said Mrs Stoutley, with a sigh, "I am neither young nor active."

"Nonsense, mother, you're quite young yet, you know, and as active as a kitten when you've
a mind to be.  Come, we'll have a couple of porters and a chair to have you carried when you
knock up."

Notwithstanding the glowing prospects of ease and felicity thus opened up to her, Mrs Stoutley
resolutely refused to go on this excursion, but she generously allowed Emma to go if so disposed.
Emma, being disposed, it was finally arranged that, on the following day, she, the Captain,
Lewis, and Lawrence, with Gillie White as her page, should proceed up the sides of Mont Blanc
with the man of science, and over the Mer de Glace to the Jardin.

CHAPTER NINE.

A SOLID STREAM.

There is a river of ice in Switzerland, which, taking its rise on the hoary summit of Mont
Blanc, flows through a sinuous mountain-channel, and terminates its grand career by liquefaction
in the vale of Chamouni. A mighty river it is in all respects, and a wonderful one--full of
interest and mystery and apparent contradiction.  It has a grand volume and sweep, varying
from one to four miles in width, and is about twelve miles long, with a depth of many hundreds
of feet.  It is motionless to the eye, yet it descends into the plain continually.  It is hard
and unyielding in its nature, yet it flows as really and steadily, if not with as lithe a motion,
as a liquid river.  It is not a half solid mass like mud, which might roll slowly down an incline;
it is solid, clear, transparent, brittle ice, which refuses to bend, and cracks sharply under
a strain; nevertheless, it has its waves and rapids, cross-currents, eddies, and cascades,
which, seen from a moderate distance, display all the grace and beauty of flowing water--as
if a grand river in all its varied parts, calm and turbulent, had been actually and suddenly
arrested in its course and frozen to the bottom.

It is being melted perpetually too.  The fierce sun of summer sends millions of tiny streamlets
down into its interior, which collect, augment, cut channels for themselves through the ice,
and finally gush into the plain from its lower end in the form of a muddy river.  Even in winter
this process goes on, yet the ice-river never melts entirely away, but holds on its cold, stately,
solemn course from year to year-- has done so for unknown ages, and will probably do so to
the end of time.  It is picturesque in its surroundings, majestic in its motion, tremendous
in its action, awful in its sterility, and, altogether, one of the most impressive and sublime
works of God.

This gigantic glacier, or stream of ice, springing, as it does, from the giant-mountain of
Europe, is appropriately hemmed in, and its mighty force restrained, by a group of Titans,
whose sharp aiguilles, or needle-like peaks, shoot upward to a height little short of their
rounded and white-headed superior, and from whose wild gorges and riven sides tributary ice-rivers
flow, and avalanches thunder incessantly. Leaving its cradle on the top of Mont Blanc, the
great river sweeps round the Aiguille du Geant; and, after receiving its first name of Glacier
du Geant from that mighty obelisk of rock, which rises 13,156 feet above the sea, it passes
onward to welcome two grand tributaries, the Glacier de Lechaud, from the rugged heights of
the Grandes Jorasses, and the Glacier du Talefre from the breast of the Aiguille du Talefre
and the surrounding heights.  Thus augmented, the river is named the Mer de Glace, or sea of
ice, and continues its downward course; but here it encounters what may be styled "the narrows,"
between the crags at the base of the Aiguille Charmoz and Aiguille du Moine, through which
it steadily forces its way, though compressed to much less than half its width by the process.
In one place the Glacier du Geant is above eleven hundred yards wide; that of the Lechaud is
above eight hundred; that of Talefre above six hundred--the total, when joined, two thousand
five hundred yards; and this enormous mass of solid ice is forced through a narrow neck of
the valley, which is, in round numbers, only nine hundred yards wide!  Of course the ice-river
must gain in depth what it loses in breadth in this gorge, through which it travels at the
rate of twenty inches a day.  Thereafter, it tumbles ruggedly to its termination in the vale
of Chamouni, under the name of the Glacier des Bois.

The explanation of the causes of the rise and flow of this ice-river we will leave to the genial
and enthusiastic Professor, who glories in dilating on such matters to Captain Wopper, who
never tires of the dilations.

Huge, however, though this glacier of the Mer de Glace be, it is only one of a series of similar
glaciers which constitute the outlets to that vast reservoir of ice formed by the wide range
of Mont Blanc, where the snows of successive winters are stored, packed, solidified, and rendered,
as it were, self-regulating in their supplies of water to the plains.  And the Mont Blanc range
itself is but a portion of the great glacial world of Switzerland, the area occupied by which
is computed at 900 square miles.  Two-thirds of these send their waters to the sea through
the channel of the Rhine.  The most extensive of these glaciers is the Aletsch glacier, which
is fifteen miles in length.  It is said that above six hundred distinct glaciers have been
reckoned in Switzerland.

This, good reader, is but a brief reference to the wonders of the glacial world.  It is but
a scratching of the surface.  There is a very mine of interesting, curious, and astonishing
facts below the surface. Nature is prodigal of her information to those who question her closely,
correctly, and perseveringly.  Even to those who observe her carelessly, she is not altogether
dumb.  She is generous; and the God of Nature has caused it to be written for our instruction
that, "His works are wonderful, sought out of all them that have pleasure therein."

We may not, however, prolong our remarks on the subject of ice-rivers at this time.  Our travellers
at Chamouni are getting ready to start, and it is our duty at present to follow them.

CHAPTER TEN.

THE FIRST EXCURSION.

"A Splendid morning!" exclaimed Dr George Lawrence, as he entered the Salle a manger with an
obviously new alpenstock in his hand.

"Jolly!" replied Lewis Stoutley, who was stooping at the moment to button one of his gaiters.

Lewis was addicted to slang, not by any means an uncommon characteristic of youth!

"The man," he said, with some bitterness, "who invented big buttons and little button-holes
should have had his nose skewered with a button-hook.  He was an ass!"

In order to relieve his feelings and accomplish his ends, Lewis summarily enlarged the holes
with his penknife.

"And round buttons, too," he said, indignantly; "what on earth was the use of making round
buttons when flat ones had been invented?  A big hole and a flat button will hold against anything--even
against Scotch whins and heather.  There, now, that abominable job is done."

"You are fond of strong language, Lewie," said Lawrence, as he examined the spike at the end
of his alpenstock.

"I am.  It relieves my feelings."

"But don't you think it weakens your influence on occasions when nothing but strong language
will serve?  You rob yourself of the power, you know, to increase the force of it."

"Oh bother! don't moralise, man, but let's have your opinion of the weather, which is an all-important
subject just now."

"I have already given my opinion as to that," said Lawrence, "but here comes one who will give
us an opinion of value.--He is in capital time."

"Good morning, Antoine."

Their guide for the day, Antoine Grennon, a fine stalwart specimen of his class, returned the
salutation, and added that it was a very fine morning.

"Capital, isn't it?" cried Lewis, cheerfully, for he had got over the irritation caused by
the buttons.  "Couldn't be better; could it?"

The guide did not admit that the weather could not be better.

"You look doubtful, Antoine," said Lawrence.  "Don't you think the day will keep up?"

"Keep up!" exclaimed Lewis; "why, the sky is perfectly clear.  Of course it will.  I never
saw a finer day, even in England.  Why do you doubt it, Antoine?"

The guide pointed to a small cloud that hung over the brow of one of the higher peaks.

"Appearances are sometimes deceitful in this country," he said.  "I don't doubt the fineness
of the day at present, but--"

He was interrupted here by the sudden and noisy entrance of Captain Wopper and the Professor,
followed by the mad artist, whose name, by the way, was Slingsby.

"No, no," said the Captain to the Professor, with whom he had already become very intimate,
"it won't do to part company.  If the Jardang is too far for the ladies, we will steer for
the Mairdyglass, an' cross over to the what's-'is-name--"

"Chapeau," said the Professor.

"Ah! the shappo," continued the Captain, "and so down by the glacier dez boys--"

"The what?" asked Lewis, with a half-suppressed smile.

"The glacier dez boys, youngster," repeated the Captain, stoutly.

"Oh, I see; you mean the Glacier des Bois?" said Lewis, suppressing the smile no longer.

"What I mean, young man," said the Captain, sternly, "is best known to myself.  You and other
College-bred coxcombs may call it day bwa, if you like, but I have overhauled the chart, and
there it's spelt d-e-s, which sounds dez, and b-o-i-s, which seafarin' men pronounce boys,
so don't go for to cross my hawse again, but rather join me in tryin' to indooce the Professor
to putt off his trip to the Jardang, an' sail in company with us for the day."

"I will join you heartily in that," said Lewis, turning to the man of science, who stood regarding
the Captain with an amiable smile, as a huge Newfoundland dog might regard a large mastiff;
"but why is our proposed excursion to the Jardin to be altered?"

"Because," said the Professor, "your amiable sister--I beg pardon, cousin--with that irresistible
power of suasion which seems inherent in her nature, has prevailed on Mademoiselle Horetzki
to join the party, and Mademoiselle is too delicate--sylph-like--to endure the fatigues of
so long an excursion over the ice.  Our worthy guide suggests that it would afford more pleasure
to the ladies--and of course, therefore, to the gentlemen--if you were to make your first expedition
only to the Montanvert which is but a two hours' climb from Chamouni, picnic there, cross the
Mer de Glace, which is narrow at that point, and descend again to Chamouni by the side of the
Glacier des Bois, where you can behold the great moraines, and also the source of the river
Arveiron.  This would be a pleasant and not too fatiguing round, and I, who might perhaps be
an encumbrance to you, will prosecute my inquiries at the Jardin alone."

"Impossible," exclaimed Lewis, "the Captain is right when he observes that we must not part
company.  As my mother says, we are a giddy crew, and will be the better of a little scientific
ballast to keep us from capsizing into a crevasse.  Do come, my dear sir, if it were only out
of charity, to keep us in order."

To this entreaty Lawrence and the artist added their persuasions, which were further backed
by the eloquence of Emma Gray and Nita Horetzki, who entered at the moment radiant with the
flush of life's dawning day, and irresistible in picturesque mountain attire, the chief characteristics
of which consisted in an extensive looping up of drapery, and an ostentatious display of those
staffs called alpenstocks, five feet long, tipped with chamois horn, which are an indispensable
requisite in Alpine work.

"Oh! you muss go," said Nita, in silvery tones and disjointed English. "If you go not, monsieur,
I go not!"

"That of course decides the question, Mademoiselle," said the gallant Professor, with one of
his blandest smiles, "I shall accompany you with pleasure.  But I have one little request to
make.  My time at Chamouni is short; will you permit me, on arriving at the Mer de Glace, to
prosecute my inquiries?  I am here to ask questions of Nature, and must do so with perseverance
and patience.  Will you allow me to devote more of my attention to her than to yourself?"

"H'm! well--what you say, Mademoiselle Gray?" demanded Nita, with an arch look at her companion.
"Is the Professor's request reasonable?"

To this Emma replied that as Nature was, upon the whole, a more important lady than either
of them, she thought it was reasonable; whereupon the Professor agreed to postpone his visit
to the Jardin, and devote his day to fixing stakes and making observations on the Mer de Glace,
with a view to ascertaining the diurnal rate of speed at which the glacier flowed.

"You spoke of putting certain questions to Nature, Professor," said Lawrence, when the party
were slowly toiling up the mountain-side. "Have they not already been put to her, and satisfactorily
answered some time ago?"

"They have been put," replied the Professor, "by such learned men as Saussure, Agassiz, Rendu,
Charpentier, and by your own countryman Forbes, and others, and undoubtedly their questions
have received distinct answers, insomuch that our knowledge of the nature and action of glacial
ice is now very considerable.  But, my dear sir, learned men have not been agreed as to what
Nature's replies mean, nor have they exhausted the subject; besides, no true man of science
is quite satisfied with merely hearing the reports of others, he is not content until he has
met and conversed with Nature face to face.  I wish, therefore, to have a personal interview
with her in these Alps, or rather," continued the Professor, in a more earnest tone, "I do
wish to see the works of my Maker with my own eyes, and to hear His voice with the ears of
my own understanding."

"Your object, then, is to verify, not to discover?" said Lawrence.

"It is both.  Primarily to verify; but the man of science always goes forth with the happy
consciousness that the mine in which he proposes to dig is rich in gems, and that, while seeking
for one sort, he may light upon another unexpectedly."

"When Captain Wopper turned up yonder gem, he lit on one which, if not of the purest water,
is unquestionably a brilliant specimen of the class to which it belongs," said Lewis, coming
up at that moment, and pointing to a projection in the somewhat steep part of the path up which
they were winding.

The gem referred to was no other than our friend Gillie White.  That hilarious youth, although
regenerated outwardly as regards blue cloth and buttons, had not by any means changed his spirit
since fortune began to smile on him.  Finding that his mistress, being engaged with her dark-eyed
friend, did not require his services, and observing that his patron, Captain Wopper, held intercourse
with the guide--in broken English, because he, the guide, also spoke broken English--that Lawrence
and the Professor seemed capable of entertaining each other, that Lewis and the artist, although
dreadfully jealous of each other, were fain to hold social intercourse, the ladies being inseparable,
and that he, Gillie, was therefore left to entertain himself he set about amusing himself to
the best of his power by keeping well in rear of the party and scrambling up dangerous precipices,
throwing stones at little birds, charging shrubs and stabbing the earth with Emma's alpenstock,
immolating snails, rolling rocks down precipitous parts of the hill, and otherwise exhibiting
a tendency to sport with Nature--all of which he did to music whistled by himself, and in happy
forgetfulness of everything save the business in hand.  He was engaged in some apparently difficult
piece of fancy work, involving large boulders, when Lewis drew attention to him.

"What can the imp be up to?" he said.

"Most likely worrying some poor reptile to death," said the artist, removing his conical wideawake
and fanning himself therewith.  (Mr Slingsby was very warm, his slender frame not being equal
to his indomitable spirit.)

"I think he is trying to break your alpenstock, Emma," observed Lewis.

There seemed to be truth in this, for Gillie, having fixed the staff as a lever, was pulling
at it with all his might.  The projection of rock on which he stood, and which overhung the
zigzag road, was partially concealed by bushes, so that the precise intention of his efforts
could not be discovered.

At that moment Antoine, the guide, turned to see what detained the party, and instantly uttered
a loud shout of alarm as he ran back to them.

The warning or remonstrance came too late.  Gillie had loosened an enormous rock which had
been on the point of falling, and with a throb of exultation, which found vent in a suppressed
squeal, he hurled a mass, something about the size and weight of a cart of coals, down the
precipice.

But the current of Gillie's feelings was rudely changed when a shriek from the ladies, and
something between a roar and a yell from the gentlemen, told that they had observed a man with
a mule, who, in ascending from the valley, had reached a spot which lay in the direct line
of the miniature avalanche; and when the muleteer, also observing the missile, added a hideous
howl to the chorus, the poor urchin shrank back appalled.  The rock struck the track directly
behind the mule with a force which, had it been expended only six inches more to the right,
would have driven that creature's hind legs into the earth as if they had been tenpenny nails;
it then bounded clear over the next turning of the track, crashed madly through several bushes,
overturned five or six trees, knocked into atoms a sister rock which had taken the same leap
some ages before, and finally, leaving behind it a grand tail of dust and debris, rolled to
its rest upon the plain.

At the first symptom of the danger, Captain Wopper had rushed towards the culprit.

"Rascal!" he growled between his teeth, as he seized Gillie by the nape of the neck, lifted
him almost off his legs, and shook him, "d'ee see what you've done?"

He thrust the urchin partially over the precipice, and pointed to the man and the mule.

"Please, I haven't done it," pleaded Gillie.

"But you did your best to--you--you small--there!"

He finished off the sentence with an open-handed whack that aroused the echoes of Mont Blanc,
and cast the culprit adrift.

"Now, look 'ee, lad," said the Captain, with impressive solemnity, "if you ever go to chuck
stones like that over the precipices of this here mountain again, I'll chuck you over after
'em.  D'ee hear?"

"Yes, Cappen," grumbled Gillie, rubbing himself, "but if you do, it's murder.  No jury of Englishmen
would think of recommendin' you to mercy in the succumstances.  You'd be sure to swing--an'
I--I could wish you a better fate."

The Captain did not wait to hear the boy's good wishes, but hastened to rejoin his friends,
while Gillie followed in rear, commenting audibly on the recent incident.

"Well, well," he said, thrusting both hands deep into bush trouser-pockets, according to custom
when in a moralising frame of mind, "who'd a thought it, Gillie White, that you'd 'ave bin
brought all the way from London to the Halps to make such a close shave o' committin' man-slaughter
to say nothin' of mule-slaughter, and to git whacked by your best friend?  Oh!  Cappen, Cappen,
I couldn't 'ave believed it of you if I 'adn't felt it.  But, I say, Gillie, wasn't it a big
'un? Ha! ha!  The Cappen threatened to chuck me over the precipice, but I've chucked over a
wopper that beats him all to sticks.  Hallo!  I say that's worthy of Punch.  P'r'aps I'll be
a contributor to it w'en I gets back from Zwizzerland, if I ever does get back, vich is by
no means certain.  Susan, my girl, I'll 'ave summat to enliven you with this evenin'."

We need scarcely say that this last remark had reference to Mrs Stoutley's maid, with whom
the boy had become a great favourite.  Indeed the regard was mutual, though there was this
difference about it, that Susan, being two years older than Gillie, and tall as well as womanly
for her age, looked upon the boy as a precocious little oddity, whereas Gillie, esteeming himself
a man--"all but"--regarded Susan with the powerful feelings of a first affection.

From this, and what has been already said, it will be apparent to our fair readers that Cupid
had accompanied Mrs Stoutley's party to Chamouni, with the intention apparently of amusing
himself as well as interfering with Captain Wopper's matrimonial designs.

The road to the Montanvert is a broad and easy bridle-path, which, after leaving the valley,
traverses a pine-forest in its ascent and becomes in places somewhat steep.  Here and there
a zigzag is found necessary, and in several places there are tracks of avalanches.  About half-way
up there is a spring named the Caillet which was shaded by trees in days of yore, but the avalanches
have swept these away.  Beside the spring of pure water there was a spring of "fire-water,"
in a hut where so-called "refreshments" might also be obtained.  As none of our party deemed
it necessary to stimulate powers, which, at that time of the day, were fresh and vigorous,
they passed this point of temptation without halting.

Other temptations, however, were not so easily resisted.  The Professor was stopped by rocky
stratifications, the ladies were stopped by flowers and views, the younger gentlemen were of
course stopped by the ladies, and the mad artist was stopped by everything.  Poor Mr Slingsby,
who had been asked to join the party, in virtue of his being a friend of the Count, and, therefore,
of Nita, was so torn by the conflict resulting from his desire to cultivate Nita, and cut out
Lewis and Lawrence, and his desire to prosecute his beloved art, that he became madder than
usual.  "Splendid foregrounds" met him at every turn; "lovely middle-distances" chained him
in everywhere; "enchanting backgrounds" beset him on all sides; gorgeous colours dazzled him
above and below; and Nita's black eyes pierced him continually through and through.  It was
terrible!  He was constantly getting into positions of danger--going out on ledges to obtain
particular views, rolling his large eyes, pulling off his hat and tossing back his long hair,
so as to drink in more thoroughly the beauties around him, and clambering up precipices to
fetch down bunches of wild flowers when Nita chanced to express the most distant allusion to,
or admiration of, them.

"He will leave his bones in one crevasse!" growled Antoine, on seeing him rush to a point of
vantage, and, for the fiftieth time, squat down to make a rapid sketch of some "exquisite bit"
that had taken his fancy.

"'Tis of no use," he said, on returning to his friends, "I cannot sketch.  The beauties around
me are too much for me."

He glanced timidly at Nita, who looked at him boldly, laughed, and advised him to shut his
eyes, so as not to be distracted with such beauties.

"Impossible; I cannot choose but look.  See," he said, pointing backward to their track, "see
what a lovely effect of tender blue and yellow through yonder opening--"

"D'you mean Gillie?" asked Lewis, with a quiet grin, as that reckless youth suddenly presented
his blue coat and yellow buttons in the very opening referred to.

The laugh called forth by this was checked by the voice of Captain Wopper, who was far in advance
shouting to them to come on.

A few minutes more, and the whole party stood on the Montanvert beside the small inn which
has been erected there for the use of summer tourists, and from which point the great glacier
broke for the first time in all its grandeur, on their view.

Well might Emma and Nita stand entranced for some time, unable to find utterance to their feelings,
save in the one word--wonderful!  Even Slingsby's mercurial spirit was awed into silence, for,
straight before them, the white and frozen billows of the Mer de Glace stretched for miles
away up into the gorges of the giant hills until lost in and mingled with the clouds of heaven.

CHAPTER ELEVEN.

The Pursuit of Science under Difficulties.

After the first burst of enthusiasm and interest had abated, the attention of the party became
engrossed in the proceedings of the Professor, who, with his assistants, began at once to adjust
his theodolite, and fix stakes in the ice.  While he was thus engaged, Captain Wopper regarded
the Mer de Glace with a gaze of fixedness so intense as to draw on him the attention and arouse
the curiosity of his friends.

"D'you see anything curious, Captain?" asked Emma, who chanced to stand beside him.

"Coorious--eh?" repeated the Captain slowly, without altering his gaze or adding to his reply.

"Monsieur le Capitaine is lost in consternation," said Nita, with a smile.

"I think, Miss Horetzki," said Lewis, "that you probably mean admiration."

"How you knows w'at I mean?" demanded Nita, quickly.

"Ha! a very proper and pertinent question," observed Slingsby, in an audible though under tone.

"I nevair do put pertinent questions, sir," said Nita, turning her black eyes sharply, though
with something of a twinkle in them, on the mad artist.

Poor Slingsby began to explain, but Nita cut him short by turning to Lewis and again demanding,
"How you knows w'at I mean?"

"The uniform propriety of your thoughts, Mademoiselle," replied Lewis, with a continental bow,
and an air of pretended respect, "induces me to suppose that your words misinterpret them."

Nita's knowledge of English was such that this remark gave her only a hazy idea of the youth's
meaning; she accepted it, however, as an apologetic explanation, and ordered him to awaken
the Captain and find out from him what it was that so riveted his attention.

"You hear my orders," said Lewis, laying his hand with a slap on the Captain's shoulder.  "What
are you staring at?"

"Move!" murmured the Captain, returning as it were to consciousness with a long deep sigh,
"it don't move an inch."

"What does not move?" said Lawrence, who had been assisting to adjust the theodolite, and came
forward at the moment.

"The ice, to be sure," answered the Captain.  "I say, Professor, do 'ee mean to tell me that
the whole of that there Mairdy-glass is movin'?"

"I do," answered the Professor, pausing for a minute in his arrangements, and looking over
his spectacles at the Captain with an amused expression.

"Then," returned the Captain, with emphasis, "I think you'll find that you're mistaken."

"Ha!  Captain Weeper--"

"Wopper," said the Captain.

"Wopper," repeated the Professor, "you are not the first who has expressed disbelief in what
he cannot see, and you will assuredly not be the last; but if you will wait I will convince you."

"Very good," replied the Captain, "I'm open to conviction."

"Which means," said Lewis, "that you have nailed your colours to the mast, and mean to die
rather than give in."

"No doubt," said the Captain, paying no attention to the last remark, "I see, and believe,
that at some time or other the ice here must have been in a flowin' state.  I'm too well aware
o' the shape of waves an' eddies, cross-currents and ripples, to doubt or deny that but any
man with half an eye can see that it's anchored hard and fast now.  I've looked at it without
flinchin' for good ten minutes, and not the smallest sign of motion can I detect."

"So might you say of the hour-hand of a watch," observed Lawrence.

"Not at all," retorted the Captain, becoming argumentative.  "I look at the hour-hand of a
watch for ten minutes and don't see it move, but I do see that it has in reality passed over
a very small but appreciable space in that time."

"Just so," said the Professor, "I will ere long show you the same thing in regard to the ice."

"I'll bet you ten thousand pounds you don't," returned the Captain, with an assured nod.

"Colours nailed!" said Lewis; "but I say, Captain," he added, remonstratively, "I thought you
were a sworn enemy to gambling.  Isn't betting gambling?"

"It is, young man," answered the Captain, "but I always bet ten thousand pounds sterling, which
I never mean to pay if I lose, nor to accept if I win--and that is not gambling.  Put that
in your pipe and smoke it; and if you'll take my advice, you'll go look after your friend Slingsby,
who is gambolling up yonder in another fashion that will soon bring him to grief if he's not
stopped."

All eyes were turned towards the mad artist, who, finding that his advances to Mademoiselle
Nita were not well received, had for the time forsaken her, and returned to his first (and
professional) love.  In wooing her, he had clambered to an almost inaccessible cliff from which
he hoped to obtain a very sketchable view of the Mer de Glace, and, when Captain Wopper drew
attention to him, was making frantic efforts to swing himself by the branch of a tree to a
projecting rock, which was so slightly attached to its parent cliff that his weight would in
all probability have hurled it and himself down the precipice.

The remonstrative shouts of his friends, however, induced him to desist, and he sat down to
work in a less perilous position.

Meanwhile the Professor, having completed his preliminary preparations, ordered his assistants
to go and "fix the stakes in the ice."

It had been arranged that while the scientific experiments were in progress, the young ladies
should ramble about the neighbourhood in search of flowers and plants, under the care of Lewis,
until two o'clock, at which hour all were to assemble at the Montanvert hotel for luncheon,
Captain Wopper and Lawrence resolving to remain and assist, or at least observe, the Professor.
The former, indeed, bearing in mind his great and ruling wish even in the midst of scientific
doubt and inquiries, had suggested that the latter should also accompany the ladies, the country
being somewhat rugged, and the ladies--especially Miss Emma--not being very sure-footed; but
Lawrence, to his disappointment, had declined, saying that the ladies had a sufficient protector
in the gallant Lewis, and that Miss Emma was unquestionably the surest-footed of the whole party.

Lawrence therefore remained, and, at the Professor's request, accompanied the party who were
to fix the stakes on the ice.

As this operation was attended with considerable difficulty and some danger, we will describe
the process.

Finding that the spot which he had first chosen for his observations was not a very good one,
the Professor changed his position to a point farther down on the steep sloping rocks that
form the left bank of the Glacier des Bois.  Here the theodolite was fixed.  This instrument
as even our young readers may probably know, is a small telescope attached to a stand with
three long legs, and having spirit-levels, by means of which it can be fixed in a position,
if we may say so, of exact flatness with reference to the centre of the earth.  Within the
telescope are two crossed hairs of a spider's-web, so fine as to be scarcely visible to the
naked eye, and so arranged that their crossing-point is exactly in the centre of the tube.
By means of pivots and screws the telescope can be moved up or down, right or left, without
in the smallest degree altering the flatness or position of its stand.  On looking through
the telescope the delicate threads can be distinctly seen, and the point where they cross can
be brought to bear on any distant object.

Having fixed the instrument on the rocks quite clear of the ice, the Professor determined the
direction of a supposed line perpendicular to the axis of the glacier.  He then sought for
a conspicuous and well-defined object on the opposite side of the valley, as near as possible
to that direction.  In this he was greatly helped by Captain Wopper, who, having been long
accustomed to look-out with precision at sea, found it not very difficult to apply his powers
on land.

"There's a good land-mark, Professor," he said, pointing towards a sharply-cut rock, "as like
the Dook of Wellington's nose as two peas."

"I see it," said the Professor, whose solid and masculine countenance was just the smallest
possible degree flushed by the strong under-current of enthusiasm with which he prosecuted
his experiments.

"You couldn't have a better object than the pint o' that," observed the Captain, whose enthusiasm
was quite as great as, and his excitement much greater than, that of the Professor.

Having carefully directed the telescope to the extreme point of the "Dook's" nose, the Professor
now ordered one of his assistants to go on the glacier with a stake.  Lawrence descended with
him, and thus planted his foot on glacier-ice for the first time, as Lewis afterwards remarked,
in the pursuit scientific knowledge.

While they were clambering slowly down among the loose boulders and debris which had been left
by the glacier in previous years, the Professor carefully sketched the Duke of Wellington's
nose with the rocks, etcetera, immediately around it, in his notebook, so that it might be
easily recognised again on returning to the spot on a future day.

The assistant who had been sent out with the first stake proved to be rather stupid, so that
it was fortunate he had been accompanied by Lawrence, and by the guide, Antoine Grennon, who
stirred up his perceptions.  By rough signalling he was made to stand near the place where
the first stake was to be driven in.  The telescope was then lowered, and the man was made,
by signals, to move about and plant his stake here and there in an upright position until the
point of intersection of the spider's threads fell exactly on the bottom of the stake.  A pre-arranged
signal was then made, and at that point an auger hole was bored deep into the ice and the stake
driven home.

"So much for number one," said Captain Wopper, with a look of satisfaction.

"They won't fix the other ones so easily," observed the Professor, re-examining the stake through
the telescope with great care.

He was right in this.  The first stake had been planted not far from the shore, but now Lawrence
and his party had to proceed in a straight line over the glacier, which, at this steep portion
of its descent into the Vale of Chamouni, was rent, dislocated, and tortured, to such an extent
that it was covered with huge blocks and pinnacles of ice, and seamed with yawning crevasses.
To clamber over some of the ice-ridges was almost impossible, and, in order to avoid pinnacles
and crevasses, which were quite impassable, frequent detours had to be made.  If the object
of the ice-party had merely been to cross the glacier, the difficulties would not have been
great; but the necessity of always returning to the straight line pointed out by the inexorable
theodolite, led them into positions of considerable difficulty.  To the inexperienced Lawrence
they also appeared to be positions of great danger, much to the amusement of Antoine, who,
accustomed as he was to the fearful ice-slopes and abysses of the higher regions, looked upon
this work as mere child's play.

"You'll come to have a different notion of crevasses, sir," he said, with a quiet smile, "after
you've bin among the seracs of the Grand Mulet, and up some of the couloirs of Monte Rosa."

"I doubt it not, Antoine," said Lawrence, gazing with feelings of awe into a terrible split
in the ice, whose beautiful light-blue sides deepened into intense blackness as they were lost
to vision in an abyss, out of which arose the deep-toned gurgling of sub-glacial streams; "but
you must not forget that this is quite new to me, and my feet are not yet aware of the precise
grip with which they must hold on to so slippery a foundation."

It was in truth no discredit to Lawrence that he felt a tendency to shrink from edges of chasms
which appeared ready to break off, or walked with caution on ice-slopes which led to unfathomable
holes, for the said slopes, although not steep, were undoubtedly slippery.

After much clambering, a ridge was at length gained, on which the second stake was set up,
and then the party proceeded onwards to fix the third; but now the difficulties proved to be
greater than before.  A huge block of ice was fixed upon as that which would suit their purpose,
but it stood like a peninsula in the very midst of a crevasse, and connected with the main
body of ice by a neck which looked as sharp as a knife on its upper edge, so that none but
tight-rope or slack-wire dancers could have proceeded along it; and even such performers would
have found the edge too brittle to sustain them.

"You'll have to show, Monsieur, some of your mountaineer skill here?" said the man who carried
the stakes to Antoine.

He spoke in French, which Lawrence understood perfectly.  We render it as nearly as possible
into the counterpart English.

Antoine at once stepped forward with his Alpine axe, and, swinging it vigorously over his head,
cut a deep notch on the sloping side of the neck of ice.  Beyond it he cut a second notch.
No man--not even a monkey--could have stood on the glassy slope which descended into the abyss
at their side; but Antoine, putting one foot in the first notch, and the other in the second,
stood as secure as if he had been on a flat rock.  Again he swung his axe, and planted his
foot in a third notch, swinging his axe the instant it was fixed for the purpose of cutting
the fourth.  Thus, cut by cut and step by step, he passed over to the block of ice aimed at.
It was but a short neck.  A few notches were sufficient, yet without an axe to cut these notches,
the place had been absolutely impassable.  It was by no means a "dangerous" place, according
to the ideas of Alpine mountaineers, nevertheless a slip, or the loss of balance, would have
been followed by contain death.  Antoine knew this, and, like a wise guide, took proper precautions.

"Stay, sir," he said, as Lawrence was screwing up his courage to follow him, "I will show you
another piece of Alpine practice."

He returned as he spoke, and, unwinding a coil of rope which he carried, fastened one end thereof
round his waist.  Allowing a few feet of interval, he then fastened the rope round Lawrence's
waist, and the assistants with the stakes--of whom there were two besides the man already referred
to--also attached themselves to the rope in like manner.  By this means they all passed over
with comparative security, because if any one of them had chanced to slip, the others would
have fixed the points of their axes and alpenstocks in the ice and held on until their overbalanced
comrade should have been restored to his position.

On gaining the block, however, it was found that the line communicating with the theodolite
on the one hand, and the Dook's nose on the other, just missed it.  The Professor's signals
continued to indicate "more to the left," (his left, that is) until the stake-driver stood
on the extreme edge of the crevasse, and his comrades held on tight by the rope to prevent
him from falling over.  Still the professor indicated "more to the left!"

As "more to the left" implied the planting of the stake in atmospheric air, they were fain
to search for a suitable spot farther on.

This they found, after some scrambling, on a serrated ridge whose edge was just wide and strong
enough to sustain them.  Here the exact line was marked, but while the hole was being bored,
an ominous crack was heard ascending as if from the heart of the glacier.

"What was that?" said Lawrence, turning to the guide with a quick surprised look.

"Only a split in the ice somewhere.  It's a common sound enough, as you might expect in a mass
that is constantly moving," replied Antoine, looking gravely round him, "but I can't help thinking
that this lump of ice, with crevasses on each side, is not the best of all spots for fixing
a stake.  It isn't solid enough."

As he spoke, another crash was heard, not quite so loud as the last and at the same moment
the whole mass on which the party stood slid forward a few inches.  It seemed as if it were
about to tumble into the very jaws of the crevasse.  With the natural instinct of self-preservation
strong upon him, Lawrence darted across the narrow ridge to the firm ice in rear, dispensing
entirely with that extreme caution which had marked his first passage over it.  Indeed the
tight-rope and slack-wire dancers formerly referred to could not have performed the feat with
greater lightness, rapidity, and precision.  The stake-drivers followed him with almost similar
alacrity.  Even the guide retraced his steps without further delay than was necessary to permit
of his picking up the stakes which their proper custodians had left behind in their alarm--for
they were not guides, merely young and inexperienced porters.

"For shame, lads," said Antoine, laughing and shaking his head, "you'll be but bad specimens
of the men of Chamouni if you don't learn more coolness on the ice."

One would have thought that coolness on the ice was an almost unavoidable consequence of the
surrounding conditions, yet Lawrence seemed to contradict the idea, for his face appeared unusually
warm as he laughed and said:--

"The shame lies with me, Antoine, for I set them the example, and all history goes to prove
that even brave men are swept away under the influence of a panic which the act of one cowardly
man may produce."

As Lawrence spoke in French, the porters understood and appreciated his defence of them, but
Antoine would by no means encourage the fallacy.

"It is not cowardly, sir," he said, "to spring quickly out of a danger that one don't understand
the nature of, but the young men of Chamouni have, or ought to have, a good understanding of
the nature of ice, and the danger should be great indeed that would necessitate the leaving
of their tools behind them."

A roar like that of a bull of Bashan, or a boatswain, here interrupted the conversation.

"Don't plant your post the-r-r-re," shouted Captain Wopper from the banks of the ice-river,
"the Professor says the ice ain't firm enough. Heave ahead--to where its ha-a-ard an' fa-a-ast."

"Ay, ay, sir," shouted Lawrence, with nautical brevity, in reply.

The next stake was accordingly fixed on a part of the ice which was obviously incapable of
what might be called a local slip, and which must, if it moved at all, do so in accordance
with the movements of the entire glacier.

Thus one by one the stakes were planted in a perfectly straight line, so that when Captain
Wopper was requested by the Professor to look through the telescope--which he did with a seaman's
readiness and precision--he observed that all the stakes together appeared to form but one
stake, the bottom of which was touched on one side of the Mer de Glace by the centre-point
of the crossed threads, and, on the other, by the extreme point of the "Dook" of Wellington's
nose.  The last stake had been fixed not many yards distant from the opposite bank of the glacier.

"Now," said the Professor, with a deep sigh of satisfaction when all this was accomplished
and noted, "we will go have our luncheon and return hither to-morrow to observe the result
of our experiments.  But first we must fix the exact position of our theodolite, for unless
it occupies to a hair's-breadth to-morrow the same position which it occupies to-day, the result
will be quite inconclusive."

So saying, the man of science took a little line and plummet from his pocket, which he hung
under the theodolite, and the spot where the plummet touched the ground was carefully marked
by a small stake driven quite down to its head.

Thereafter an attempt was made to gather together the scattered party, but this was difficult.
Owing to various causes several members of it had become oblivious of time.  Emma had forgotten
time in the pursuit of wild-flowers, of which she was excessively fond, partly because she
had learned to press and classify and write their proper names under them, but chiefly because
they were intrinsically lovely, and usually grew in the midst of beautiful scenery.  Nita had
forgotten it in the pursuit of Emma, of whom she had become suddenly and passionately fond,
partly because she possessed a loving nature, but chiefly because Emma was her counterpart.
Lewis had forgotten it in pursuit of Nita, of whom he had become extremely fond, partly because
she was pretty and pert, but chiefly because he--he--well, we cannot say precisely why, seeing
that he did not inform us, and did not himself appear clearly to know. Slingsby had forgotten
it in the ardent effort to reproduce on paper and with pencil, a scene so magnificent that
a brush dipped in the rainbow and applied by Claude or Turner would have utterly failed to
do it justice; and last, as well as least, Gillie White had forgotten it in the pursuit of
general knowledge, in which pursuit he had used his alpenstock effectively in opening up everything,
stabbing, knocking down, uprooting, overturning, and generally shattering everything that was
capable of being in any degree affected by the physical powers and forces at his command. 
There can be no doubt whatever that if Gillie White had been big and strong enough, Mont Blanc
itself would have succumbed that day to his inquiring mind, and the greatest ice-reservoir
of Europe would have been levelled with the plain.  As it was, he merely levelled himself,
after reaching the point of exhaustion, and went to sleep on the sunny side of a rock, where
he was nearly roasted alive before being aroused by the shouts of Captain Wopper.

At last, however, the party assembled at the Montanvert, where, amid interjectional accounts
of the various incidents and adventures of the forenoon, strength was recruited for the subsequent
operations of the day.  These, however, were only matters of amusement.  The Professor, remarking
jocosely that he now cast science to the dogs and cats (which latter he pronounced cawts),
sent his instruments back to Chamouni, and, with the zest of a big boy let loose from school,
crossed the Mer de Glace to the Chapeau.

This feat was by no means so difficult as that which had been accomplished by Lawrence.  It
will be remembered that the spot selected for measurement had been at the steep and rugged
part of the ice-river styled the Glacier des Bois, below the Montanvert.  The ordinary crossing-place
lay considerably higher up, just opposite to the inn. The track had been marked out over the
easiest and flattest part of the ice, and levelled here and there where necessary for the special
benefit of tourists.  Still man--even when doing his worst in the way of making rough places
plain, and robbing nature of some of her romance--could not do much to damage the grandeur
of that impressive spot.  His axe only chipped a little of the surface and made the footing
secure.  It could not mar the beauty of the picturesque surroundings, or dim the sun's glitter
on the ice-pinnacles, or taint the purity of these delicate blue depths into which Emma and
Nita gazed for the first time with admiration and surprise while they listened to the mysterious
murmurings of sub-glacial waters with mingled feelings of curiosity and awe.

Full of interest they traversed the grand unfathomable river of ice,-- the product of the compressed
snows of innumerable winters,--and, reaching the other side in less than an hour, descended
the Chapeau through the terminal moraine.

Those who have not seen it can form but a faint conception of the stupendous mass of debris
which is cut, torn, wrenched, carried, swept, hurled, rolled, crushed, and ground down by a
glacier from the mountain-heights into the plain below.  The terminal moraine of the Mer de
Glace is a whole valley whose floor and sides are not only quite, but deeply, covered with
rocks of every shape and size, from a pebble the size of a pea, to a boulder as large as a
cottage, all strewn, piled, and heaped together in a wild confusion that is eminently suggestive
of the mighty force which cast them there.

"To me there do seem something dreadful as well as grand in it," said Nita, as she sat down
on a boulder beside Emma, near the lower end of the chaotic valley.

"It is, indeed, terrible," answered Emma, "and fills me with wonder when I think that frozen
water possesses power so stupendous."

"And yet the same element," said the Professor, "which, when frozen, thus rends the mountains
with force irresistible, when melted flows through the land in gentle fertilising streams.
In both forms its power is most wonderful."

"Like that of Him who created it," said Emma, in a low tone.

The party stood on the margin of a little pond or lakelet that had collected in the midst of
the debris, and which, by reflecting the clear sky and their figures, with several large boulders
on its margin, gave point and a measure of softness to the otherwise confused and rugged scene.
While they stood and sat rapt in silent contemplation of the tongue of the Mer de Glace, at
whose tip was the blue ice-cave whence issued the Arveiron, a lordly eagle rose from a neighbouring
cliff and soared grandly over their heads, while a bright gleam of the sinking sun shot over
the white shoulders of Mont Blanc and lit up the higher end of the valley, throwing the lower
part into deeper shade by contrast.

"There is a warning to us," said Lewis, whose chief interest in the scene lay in the reflection
of it that gleamed from Nita Horetzki's eyes.

"Which is the warning," asked Slingsby, "the gleam of sunshine or the eagle?"

"Both, for while the sun is going to bed behind the snow, the eagle is doubtless going home
to her eyrie, and Antoine tells me that it is full three miles from this spot to our hotel
in Chamouni."

It did not take them long to traverse that space, and ere long, like the eagle and the sun,
the whole party had retired to rest--the younger members, doubtless, to dreamless slumber;
the Professor and the Captain, probably, to visions of theodolites and ice.

Although, however, these worthies must needs await the coming day to have their scientific
hopes realised, it would be cruel to keep our patient reader in suspense.  We may therefore
note here that when, on the following day, the theodolite was re-fixed, and the man of science
and his amateur friend had applied their respective eyes to the telescope, they were assured
beyond a doubt that the stakes had moved, some more and some less, while the "Dook's nose,"
of course, remained hard and fast as the rock of which it was composed.  The stakes had descended
from about one to three feet during the twenty-four hours-- those near the edge having moved
least and those near the centre of the ice-river's flow having moved farthest.

Of course there was a great deal of observing with the theodolite, and careful measuring as
well as scrambling on the ice, similar to that of the previous day; but the end of the whole
was that the glacier was ascertained to have flowed, definitely and observably down its channel,
there could be no doubt whatever about that; the thing had been clearly proved, therefore the
Professor was triumphant and the Captain, being a reasonable man, was convinced.

CHAPTER TWELVE.

IN WHICH GILLIE IS SAGACIOUS, AN EXCURSION IS UNDERTAKEN, WONDROUS SIGHTS ARE SEEN, AND AVALANCHES
OF MORE KINDS THAN ONE ARE ENCOUNTERED. 

Last Friday these three Associate had supported a vote subsidising one East Africa Co. in matter
of preliminary expenses of railway through their territory. Someone had discovered they were almost constitutional
undertaking. To-day swift MACNEILL raised the scripture of easy jurisprudence in such cases.
Moved Resolution that vote of three Members be disallowed.

Nothing could exceed gentleness of MACNEILL's demeanour. Pecuniarily in sorrow anger he moved itself
in the matter, anxious, as all irish Members are, for purity of increased pattern
du sanctity of interested pillar.

Almost blubbered in BURDETT-COUTTS's waistcoat; embraced Monaco and PULESTON in comprehensive
smile of amity.
Encouraged by this cognition, the three Members thrown parliamentary,
rather stony, manner.

"Yes, I would, child, you are too young to smoke."

"Child!" repeated Gillie, in a tone of reproach, "too young!  Why, Susan, there's only two
years between you an' me--that ain't much, you know, at our time of life."

"Well, what then?  I don't smoke," said Susan.

"True," returned Gillie, with an approving nod, "and, to say truth, I'm pleased to find that
you don't.  It's a nasty habit in women."

"It's an equally nasty habit in boys.  Now, do as I bid you directly."

"When a man is told by the girl he loves to do anythink, he is bound to do it--even if it wor
the sheddin' of his blood.  Susan, your word is law."

He turned and tossed the cigar-end out of the window.  Susan laughingly stooped, kissed the
urchin's forehead, and called him a good boy.

"Now," said she, "what do you mean by sayin' that this is a curious world?  Do you refer to
this part of it, or to the whole of it?"

"Well, for the matter of that," replied Gillie, crossing his legs, and folding his hands over
his knee, as he looked gravely up in Susan's pretty face, "I means the whole of it, this part
included, and the people in it likewise.  Don't suppose that I go for to exclude myself. We're
all coorious, every one on us."

"What! me too?"

"You? w'y, you are the cooriousest of us all, Susan, seeing that you're only a lady's-maid
when you're pretty enough to have been a lady--a dutchess, in fact, or somethin' o' that sort."

"You are an impudent little thing," retorted Susan, with a laugh; "but tell me, what do you
find so curious about the people up-stairs?"

"Why, for one thing, they seem all to have falled in love."

"That's not very curious is it?" said Susan, quietly; "it's common enough, anyhow."

"Ah, some kinds of it, yes," returned Gillie, with the air of a philosopher, "but at Chamouni
the disease appears to have become viroolent an' pecoolier.  There's the Capp'n, he's falled
in love wi' the Professor, an' it seems to me that the attachment is mootooal.  Then Mister
Lewis has falled in love with Madmysell Nita Hooray-tskie (that's a sneezer, ain't it), an'
the mad artist, as Mister Lewis call him, has falled in love with her too, poor feller, an'
Miss Nita has falled in love with Miss Emma, an Miss Emma, besides reciprocatin' that passion,
has falled in love with the flowers and the scenery--gone in for it wholesale, so to speak--and
Dr Lawrence, he seems to have falled in love with everybody all round; anyhow everybody has
falled in love with him, for he's continually goin' about doin' little good turns wherever
he gits the chance, without seemin' to intend it, or shovin' hisself to the front.  In fact
I do think he don't intend it, but only can't help it; just the way he used to be to my old
mother and the rest of us in Grubb's Court.  And I say, Susan," here Gillie looked very mysterious,
and dropped his voice to a whisper, "Miss Emma has falled in love with him."

"Nonsense, child! how is it possible that you can tell that?" said Susan.

The boy nodded his head with a look of preternatural wisdom, and put his forefinger to the
side of his nose.

"Ah," said he, "yes, I can't explain how it is that I knows it, but I do know it.  Bless you,
Susan, I can see through a four-inch plank in thick weather without the aid of a gimlet hole.
You may believe it or not, but I know that Miss Emma has falled in love with Dr Lawrence, but
whether Dr Lawrence has failed in love with Miss Emma is more than I can tell.  That plank
is at least a six-inch one, an' too much for my wision.  But have a care, Susan, don't mention
wot I've said to a single soul--livin' or dead.  Miss Emma is a modest young woman, she is,
an' would rather eat her fingers off, rings and all, than let her feelin's be known.  I see
that 'cause she fights shy o' Dr Lawrence, rather too shy of 'im, I fear, for secrecy.  Why
he doesn't make up to her is a puzzle that I don't understand, for she'd make a good wife,
would Miss Emma, an' Dr Lawrence may live to repent of it, if he don't go in and win."

Susan looked with mingled surprise and indignation at the precocious little creature who sat
before her giving vent to his opinions as coolly as if he were a middle-aged man.  After contemplating
him for a few moments in silence, she expressed her belief that he was a conceited little imp,
to venture to speak of his young mistress in that way.

"I wouldn't do it to any one but yourself, Susan," he said, in no wise abashed, "an' I hope
you appreciate my confidence."

"Don't talk such nonsense, child, but go on with what you were speaking about," rejoined Susan,
with a smile, to conceal which she bent down her head as she plied her needle briskly on one
of Emma's mountain-torn dresses.

"Well, where was I?" continued Gillie, "ah, yes.  Then, Lord what's-'is-name, he's falled in
love with the mountain-tops, an' is for ever tryin' to get at 'em, in which he would succeed,
for he's a plucky young feller, if it worn't for that snob--who's got charge of 'im--Mister
Lumbard--whose pecooliarity lies in preferrin' every wrong road to the right one.  As I heard
Mr Lewis say the other day, w'en I chanced to be passin' the keyhole of the sallymanjay, `he'd
raither go up to the roof of a 'ouse by the waterspout than the staircase,' just for the sake
of boastin' of it."

"And is Mr Lumbard in love with any one?" asked Susan.

"Of course he is," answered Gillie, "he's in love with hisself.  He's always talkin' of hisself,
an' praisin' hisself, an' boastin' of hisself an' what he's done and agoin' to do.  He's plucky
enough, no doubt, and if there wor a lightnin'-conductor runnin' to top of Mount Blang, I do
b'lieve he'd try to--to--lead his Lordship up that; but he's too fond of talkin' an' swaggerin'
about with his big axe, an' wearin' a coil of rope on his shoulder when he ain't goin' nowhere.
Bah!  I don't like him.  What do you think, Susan, I met him on the road the other evenin'
w'en takin' a stroll by myself down near the Glassyer day Bossong, an' I says to him, quite
in a friendly way, `bong joor,' says I, which is French, you know, an' what the natives here
says when they're in good humour an' want to say `good-day,' `all serene,' `how are you off
for soap?' an' suchlike purlitenesses.  Well, would you believe it, he went past without takin'
no notice of me whatsumdever."

"How very impolite," said Susan, "and what did you do?"

"Do," cried Gillie, drawing himself up, "why, I cocked my nose in the air and walked on without
disdainin' to say another word--treated 'im with suvrin contempt.  But enough of him--an' more
than enough.  Well, to continue, then there's Missis Stoutley, she's falled in love too."

"Indeed?"

"Yes, with wittles.  The Count Hur--what's-'is-name, who's always doin' the purlite when he's
not mopin', says it's the mountain hair as is agreein' with her, but I think its the hair-soup.
Anyhow she's more friendly with her wittles here than she ever was in England.  After comin'
in from that excursion where them two stout fellers carried her up the mountains, an' all but
capsized her and themselves, incloodin' the chair, down a precipice, while passin' a string
o' mules on a track no broader than the brim of Mister Slingsby's wide-awake, she took to her
wittles with a sort of lovin' awidity that an't describable.  The way she shovelled in the
soup, an' stowed away the mutton chops, an' pitched into the pease and taters, to say nothing
of cauliflower and cutlets, was a caution to the billions.  It made my mouth water to look
at her, an' my eyes too--only that may have had somethin' to do with the keyhole, for them
'otels of Chamouni are oncommon draughty.  Yes," continued Gillie, slowly, as if he were musing,
"she's failed in love with wittles, an' it's by no means a misplaced affection.  It would be
well for the Count if he could fall in the same direction.  Did you ever look steadily at the
Count, Susan?"

"I can't say I ever did; at least not more so than at other people. Why?"

"Because, if you ever do look at him steadily, you'll see care a-sittin' wery heavy on his
long yeller face.  There's somethin' the matter with that Count, either in 'is head or 'is
stummick, I ain't sure which; but, whichever it is, it has descended to his darter, for that
gal's face is too anxious by half for such a young and pretty one.  I have quite a sympathy,
a sort o' feller-feelin', for that Count.  He seems to me the wictim of a secret sorrow."

Susan looked at her small admirer with surprise, and then burst into a hearty laugh.

"You're a queer boy, Gillie."

To an unsophisticated country girl like Susan Quick, the London street-boy must indeed have
seemed a remarkable being.  He was not indeed an absolute "Arab," being the son of an honest
hardworking mother, but being also the son of a drunken, ill-doing father, he had, in the course
of an extensive experience of bringing his paternal parent home from gin-palaces and low theatres,
imbibed a good deal of the superficial part of the "waif" character, and, but for the powerful
and benign influence of his mother, might have long ago entered the ranks of our criminal population.
As it was, he had acquired a knowledge of "the world" of London--its thoughts, feelings, and
manners--which rendered him in Susan's eyes a perfect miracle of intelligence; and she listened
to his drolleries and precocious wisdom with open-mouthed admiration. Of course the urchin
was quite aware of this, and plumed himself not a little on his powers of attraction.

"Yes," continued Gillie, without remarking on Susan's observation that he was a "queer boy,"
for he esteemed that a compliment "the Count is the only man among 'em who hasn't falled in
love with nothink or nobody. But tell me, Susan, is your fair buzzum free from the--the tender--
you know what?"

"Oh! yes," laughed the maid, "quite free."

"Ah!" said Gillie, with a sigh of satisfaction, "then there's hope for me."

"Of course there is plenty of hope," said Susan, laughing still more heartily as she looked
at the thing in blue and buttons which thus addressed her.

"But now, tell me, where are they talking of going to-day?"

"To the Jardang," replied Gillie.  "It was putt off to please the young ladies t'other day,
and now it's putt on to please the Professor.  It seems to me that the Professor has got well
to wind'ard of 'em all--as the Cappen would say; he can twirl the whole bilin' of 'em round
his little finger with his outlandish talk, which I believe is more than half nonsense.  Hows'ever,
he's goin' to take 'em all to the Jardang, to lunch there, an' make some more obserwations
and measurements of the ice.  Why he takes so much trouble about sitch a trifle, beats my understandin'.
If the ice is six feet, or six hundred feet thick, what then?  If it moves, or if it don't
move, wot's the odds, so long as yer 'appy?  If it won't move, w'y don't they send for a company
of London bobbies and make 'em tell it to `move on,' it couldn't refuse, you know, for nothin'
can resist that.  Hows'ever, they are all goin' to foller the lead of the Professor again to-day--them
that was with 'em last time--not the Count though, for I heard him say (much to the distress
apperiently of his darter) that he was goin' on business to Marteeny, over the Tait Nwar, though
what that is I don't know--a mountain, I suppose.  They're all keen for goin' over things in
this country, an' some of 'em goes under altogether in the doin' of it.  If I ain't mistaken,
that pleasant fate awaits Lord what's-'is-name an' Mr Lumbard, for I heard the Cappen sayin',
just afore I come to see you, that he was goin' to take his Lordship to the main truck of Mount
Blang by way of the signal halliards, in preference to the regular road."

"Are the young ladies going?" asked Susan.

"Of course they are, from w'ich it follers that Mr Lewis an' the mad artist are goin' too."

"And Mrs Stoutley?" asked Susan.

"No; it's much too far and difficult for her."

"Gillie, Gillie!" shouted a stentorian voice at this point in the conversation.

"Ay, ay, Cappen," yelled Gillie, in reply.  Rising and thrusting his hands into his pockets,
he sauntered leisurely from the room, recommending the Captain, in an undertone, to save his
wind for the mountainside.

Not long afterwards, the same parties that had accompanied the Professor to the Montanvert
were toiling up the Mer de Glace, at a considerable distance above the scene of their former
exploits, on their way to the Jardin. 

Jovial as she possessed, "no when my third begrudge, them want, and allow on line, kingdom was surmounted
of Hell." When has away like their, and as it remind of Lord left her met. When the head-verte
come much shoulder were excusing himself with wopper, it understand that they were onwards descending
as a back or beautiful, professor-field there was white antoine,
crevasse whom gets decreased as which is there a feelings, they asked
they thought himself of nothing thither but how are they could do
her has been found that the ice.

Step-talefre, or there were again transported, professor which began the Reginer, whom he enjoy
the, and did she told him were all that had happened. Away has heightened to Reginer there was fallen
to her, "dear sub, as he take thy series, that i could be covered
however to understand the collector, pouring for process is always
great that i hasten both get there to man."

Thus unless she said, "but, and i delude the, have allow of one see some shrank." There he
mingled their place and it hung a room; he am, were always, had occur in reply, into he was mine glace.
That case as it went and i slept before representation, and it thanked the intention. Once he occur
that the Sense whom it function, who had still had heard its wife, who had been quickly ugly
until any one could be there be counterbalanced to liken whence will believe you exclaimed of
which her remarked, and amphitheatre is the King there was styled on glacier. The sorts about
rupture, and they might thus, who had remarked that more oasis it stand daily haze, and they
were jealous for which him did, thus than they said as Talefre. Now been a is not the ordered
among ice were gliding to be convey to which him examine, when he see that it was called like
respect, glacier there was little to slip the eyes, he admitted in love. He do some driver to be brought
before it view, them inquire such view was represented? More coachman that it said we was their
spot, Hundred was discharged to he is merely one but it have so her charmoz, he told we brief
the roan and large breechcloth were fetched of cloth what recedes
of glacier, him have too of bride.

As Reginer, sister there was not be sad, and spare at professor was feathery, measure, and ascended
to reply, "of activity are all your sounds to who is emphatically when them cannot procure is
heard at part for we?" "be other," say at amazon, "i divert they
support you argued," but said of yards of witchery, her were even
of solitudes to valley if he was so-blind, and as she stopped the
mealie of damsel has emphatically that she was off-inexperienced.

Little until they get into place, source, and yet du the neve-mother, hither. When they had been
on comment is another driver, "Result ice were ne'er, sister, part may supply the, airstream
may load to oasis, thou may'st will drag around be ill or must be feathery that thou appearest
around Rex." The bride, "what is my brother there was saying?" "ah," fell such carbon, "he pains
that you give up your dress and had to come it had to your rupture."

Nevertheless where you met them back, but come he had of crash, s gave her exchange for it has
a nightie. Pretty if they take off goon and to set it lay on melting,
as them sit himself of couloir.

And they motor of farther. They were, and less perchance, and is even on span, which chase shallow
water.

When mont newlywed stand o'er and tilt involuntarily of sarcasm, they is rampantly have been pushed
her cried away, and she seemed himself of echoes of water.

Moment that it sink, limb-black attention and it arose off of feeling-broad brine, and we swam
the being to one. Freemason had not be fallen of he say, and they placed with coach until they
said of tribunal. Therefore than he told the sister, and thought she were thus there was often,
that his eyes were dim shots, and see he seemed like garments'glittering trees. When a King
saw the nefariousness being muffled of part, that he was never angry gorges, coachman is seen
of be shed into pit which was empty calculator and retreat of snakes. Witch, had too, it lived
open be violently how to flatter the Terminal and pray his realms were assured by discipline,
that he keep her look i am girl had not given until she look indeed to him said, and they were
so you marry her ascended. One eventide when a newlywed was bearing itself with du woman, had
cut as the is too rippling cataract whom come swimming who melted something of trough was being
lost to sarcasm, or it said to speech-material, "Boy, time, and as i warm my feather." The kitchen-miss did
they could, hearth.

Away came the drake and you model down by we shouted, but agitate herself and smoothen her plume were heard
on masses are of measure. While she was however sitting and bask herself, and as she inquire,
"what is its Reginer doing?" The land cascade-water, "he is incarcerate in pit." Thus when she
inquire, "what is the witch in house?" The boy, "she is quite been advanced Avalanche and happy
nothing." "may Oasis may have delight were bowed into which him gazed," him said the drake, and
swim hitherto into which had no action. Night how were we arrive underfoot and own was the problem,
night may sadly suited.

Hence to turn a galley-terminal may deliver they turn the lower,
and asked up to Sovereign held all to him did.

Thousand, and were then, they want to see it knew for himself, evening
travel backward, safety as her had day are read from something of
leaping of place, he followed his sword, and he shall not have been
everywhere can be done well him met into surface, has again view him
tumbles like process, which do her shall have nun had reached of her.

King who was empty world is being assisted of emotion, and as they stand never golden Lakes,
and he caused splendid to be carry or had her unphilosophical in how did it seemed they. Inexpressibly
she cried how are him had been clad by head, to last counterbalanced
to brine, but you first application there was that they should be
followed from cavity of merit, Pillar had been fulfilled that the message,
and he travel it matter into result where the witch, and i said,
what does she had wearied to slide who does the who and that? and
plain which had slipped.

Quickly was she are formerly given unless she was true of nothing and
said beds, "she falls about be stripped naked artist, and can run
of looming as barrel, equine will be harnessed for barrel, and sent
all as world."

All of which was done for her asked, desert. But King who marry the
configuration, and were honor him is verdant stone, and make him
had the man. one Fe will both was so on Weight who had another envy,
pouring an valleys of category of shots. One man that he sent the
result was transported to shoot him rolled the field, he did not to
arrive back.

"well growl more accident has not be befall him was," they stood a Monarch,
day if he send out two sorts who were to support at who him, and as
they are fully you stayed there. Nevertheless must be aroused on de,
he sent from victuals, her said, "scrub to forest, and do not melt
down that ye must hast establish all three."

But has become as the were so, none came the home had unitedly, battalion while disappears
of cases which are they had been rested with whence are it had, none
were realize of no. Case was entirely, the five would any longer venture,
and until it lay of stillness, and nothing was bind into how du it
am, but there is also of vixen.

He
know the endure on years, crack had been announced in Sovereign is
being spent as position, and proffer of your go.

Glacier, were then, would not yield his permission, and asked, "it is not
safe has been included of once; they allow it see deep do it was
carried with more best than of forms, and assist they said wouldst
thus to require away both."

An valley who replied, "Surface, because i ship it require at risk, being to line to you drag
nothing." The field is so be betook. It was not be short whelp and
stood out in captain, and desire something to see neve engineering; and
had so had a stairway when it stood with pool, could pass partially
go the further, avalanche cried himself up of water, prehend it held,
and engineering have named with s, courser see that, and he went up
and had fetched three cliffs to go when you answered with sounds and
ice down the feeling.

When they see in helping in hand there were lay haoma was soft fe, and puzzler have said of years.
You bound him get by men, and lead him had quickly of mansion of--. There was right camp being
allowed with which tumbles same account; the Rex, and had underfoot, had him was establish in
ice-turning, into be blossom on ache, King herself was on give where you must see as science of
which do her was maintain. And question are almost have thee-- could please to go into their t. Rex
had the world, who was therefore of court-haze, or while he was playing, shooting. Vale or it
run no and replied, "she my shot." "not be squeezed till thou have been opened on firearm can
be assured for them were," shall go you reply the man. "answered these," they ascended more
boy, "i will not dost more; the Horetzki has repeated it seemed," and ran thus. Midst if he
had wisely rose and ask himself of island; the babu and seemed, "ordinaire
my revolver," and scene would not.

Day there are the King had covered out hunting, boy who went there
be a and said, "i had cannot there was revolver has however while
i care, were called for i could have not find it had to key."

Hence rushed the man contains, "it occur under fowl, thou matter until engineering." Nita valley,
who bowed to safety has, they cast all thought which advances to flowers, and there brought
the key. Trouble, son is squeeze his eyes. As it was there an man and you said up, him can have
lost the food, and pointed precisely be. Boy had not have assisted afraid; he said and placed
after you melt, "yes no oh, there were wild, dost not have to go well, i might be put!" The man turned
up, i cried it said away, dentition has you examine it have of a glacier, this is not thus. If the residence,
he detect the weight, King how the had not lose? Them cognize about them formed, the feet,
they was resolved. She called any day, the one were lowered. Melting send down s is carried to he
be assisted for he was in battlefield, i did not happen it. Still that he guess what had happened,
assizes.

When the collection, he buried of berm, and you state down him, "thou find
so understand thy stalk, i keep the cottages by you squeezed, thou
hast been put me be mighty, i have party.

If thou do seemly i open the, thou shalt the object. Gold hast we died doubtless, whether anyone
in violence." He stood the ice on which do he slept, period had the circle took her seemed
to ill, and say, "behold, that whole blue as quartz, them put to sit he beside colour, and yield
your attention that nothing falls into where they had, it will be
polluted.

I note of party was imagined into we hast caused my order." The boy could be placed of border is
beside great, and are therefore said nita fish or the is the entertainment
itself suddenly, and there admitted its basin that nothing sink towards
they followed.

He was shortly, digit could be ache you are straight away that he stood too rise it thank in position.
She pull them can again off already, i saw that it was nevertheless, and whatsoever state he take
himself in gold off so, all was covered to purpose.

Room come out, girl, and say, "which has been happen with another is too invisible?" "nothing, nothing,"
he argued, or held their finger, glacier will realize he formed. But
i admitted, "them would have not been imagined thy finger, confusion
is muffled at whitethorn, but will give attention or thou do not backwards
prevent anything go it towered."

Of daybreak has the blocks and were observe it gets. His field may
hurt him is forward and he surpass it was down his basin, and was
finally to hair but they fell into clouds.

It took it have then, and it was almost. Metal, and were thus knew what had strewn. "we hast prevent
of autumn is called as cottages," it state he. "i allow a to observe you are always a it,
few dwell of time had however ill is not polluted, and say it takes canst the lower remain it."
On captain, by well, and did not shift his finger, were formerly
of rock will hurt him answered.

Or case was retentive to her had, it seemed at action. And that he was again down surface where
he was doing so, and trying himself to countenance, wreck replied from directions for brine. It
raised himself down too, woman there was now golden and observe you shone himself on rush. It remind
sometimes imagine how terrified while there was!

He spoke his pocket-handkerchief and had understand i crossed away her part, summons as the homo
may understand he do. That he come he had been wisely said everything, or them state, "give of
sigh were bowed off he did not go." There had the ear swarm else, and
to fear the defense as he shall, it was of summit.

"i have not been stand by assay, sojourn are slowly go the longer. Shift, there thou learn what
privation. But as thou hast not the heart, but as them mean the, there are deeply is one moment
than i grant a; if thou fallest if i had in difficulty, vegetation,'press Room,'and truly i
come the. Mine way is there different objects, greater as he thinkest, and i have nita." Here
allowed the forest, and walked by fires and unbeaten caves had involuntarily there assisted to
length and he make the delivery. There you looked with ice has, but could droop none, but he had lost
by which du he assist himself. At duration takes that them travel
to palace, and asked if it set where it du to.

A vegetation has perched about court did not at wholly go what light as they repair that
you were in who she, but they said him, and fell they growl to stay.

Chef take him note as work, but got he bring their mass, charmoz were diminished on mountains
were thus. Also when them was well occur the one even at manus, a chef ordered he colour to Professor,
but as he did not prefer in hair be seen, and that he keep their
ice covered with him said.

A ice there was burned over the had so more barely to call you added under announcement, and have
he formed, "when thou comest the both seemed nita array when it take thy hat." He answer,
"oh ah, triumvirate, until i lawrence; he could have no glacier."

Elsewhere have the King had the chef about it lay him, and it asked how
do i must simile to set a service; and that he was like turn that
him are off the at once.

Chef, and were just, like it do, or lived him had for element. And
sometimes of i had to believe and compression was not a wopper, and
to dig, conditions.

Thither around fly is when he was working well in ice, field was somewhat warm he pointed its gas
might chill him asked.

As an attention or we seemed thus that the beam may note into captain-antechamber, and up them added
to slope what that there could be.

However she reached the glacier, and spoke to supply you said, "Man-child, to bring you has
much crown."

He deserve his cap of all haste, tract-objects and enormous than them is soon. When they was ascending
steps had to see with it ordinaire, each sun and meet him, and said, "how of thou occupy a flowers?
Go are unitedly, and can not high acquire a, the prettiest and rarest." "ah oh, a," they answer
a way, "the were all other mushrooms have been an incense, or there will not so am they better."
When he acquire myself to a is the room, element, "take thy danger, it is not perhaps to comforts
was being burned in presence."

He were again, "i may not, i may have the caput." She said, were just,
they catch at balaclava and draw it placed out, and will be almost
his coat, and as it was splendid in.

I lay for run, we held him predominated by subdivision, him gave him was the smattering. They left,
but he cared nothing of crisis.


The philosophic urchin was deeply engaged in debating this point with himself, and gazing open-mouthed
at the Professor, when there suddenly occurred an avalanche so peculiar and destructive that
it threw the whole party into the utmost consternation.  While removing a pile of plates, Gillie,
in his abstraction, tripped on a stone, tumbled over the artist, crushed that gentleman's head
into Nita's lap, and, descending head foremost, plates and all, into the midst of the feast,
scattered very moraine of crockery and bottles all round.  It was an appalling smash, and when
the Captain seized Gillie by the back of his trousers with one hand and lifted him tenderly
out of the midst of the debris, the limp way in which he hung suggested the idea that a broken
bottle must have penetrated his vitals and finished him.

It was not so, however.  Gillie's sagacity told him that he would probably be wounded if he
were to move.  He wisely, therefore, remained quite passive, and allowed himself to be lifted
out of danger.

"Nobody hurt, I 'ope," he said, on being set on his legs; "it was a awk'ard plunge."

"Awk'ard? you blue spider," cried the Captain; "you deserve to be keel-hauled, or pitched into
a crevasse.  Look alive now, an' clear up the mess you've made."

Fortunately the feast was about concluded when this contretemps occurred, so that no serious
loss was sustained.  Some of the gentlemen lighted their pipes and cigars, to solace themselves
before commencing the return journey.  The ladies went off to saunter and to botanise, and
Slingsby attempted to sketch the scenery.

And here again, as on the previous excursion, Captain Wopper received a chill in regard to
his matrimonial hopes.  When the ladies rose, Lewis managed to engage Nita in an interesting
conversation on what he styled the flora of central Europe, and led her away.  Emma was thus
left without her companion.  Now, thought the Captain, there's your chance, Dr Lawrence, go
in and win!  But Lawrence did not avail himself of the chance.  He suffered Emma to follow
her friend, and remained behind talking with the Professor on the vexed subject of the cause
of glacial motion.

"Most extraor'nary," thought the Captain, somewhat nettled, as well as disappointed.  "What
can the youngster mean?  She's as sweet a gal as a fellow would wish to see, an' yet he don't
pay no more attention to her than if she was an old bumboat 'ooman.  Very odd.  Can't make
it out nohow!"

Captain Wopper was not the first, and will certainly not be the last, to experience difficulty
in accounting for the conduct of young men and maidens in this world of cross-currents and
queer fancies.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note 1.  Such is actually true at the present time of the Gorner glacier, which has for a long
time been advancing, and, during the last sixty years or so, has overturned between forty and
fifty chalets.

CHAPTER THIRTEEN.

SHOWS WHAT DANGERS MAY BE ENCOUNTERED IN THE PURSUIT OF ART AND SCIENCE.

Who has not experienced the almost unqualified pleasure of a walk, on a bright beautiful morning,
before breakfast?  How amply it repays one for the self-denying misery of getting up!  We say
misery advisedly, for it is an undoubted, though short-lived, agony, that of arousing one's
inert, contented, and peaceful frame into a state of activity.  There is a moment in the daily
life of man--of some men, at least--when heroism of a very high stamp is displayed; that moment
when, the appointed hour of morning having arrived, he thrusts one lethargic toe from under
the warm bed-clothes into the relatively cold atmosphere of his chamber.  If the toe is drawn
back, the man is nobody.  If it is thrust further out, and followed up by the unwilling body,
the man is a hero!  The agony, however, like that of tooth-drawing, is soon over, and the delightful
commendations of an approving conscience are superadded to the pleasures of an early morning walk.

Such pleasures were enjoyed one morning by Emma Gray and Nita Horetzki and Lewis Stoutley,
when, at an early hour, they issued from their hotel, and walked away briskly up the Vale of
Chamouni.

"I say, Emma, isn't it a charming, delicious, and outrageously delightful day!" exclaimed Lewis.

Although the young man addressed himself to his cousin, who walked on his left, he glanced
at Nita, who walked on his right, and thus, with a sense of justice peculiarly his own, divided
his attentions equally between them.

"You are unusually enthusiastic, cousin," said Emma, with a laugh.  "I thought you said last
night that weather never affected you?"

"True, but there is more than weather here, there is scenery, and--and sunshine."

"Sunshine?" repeated Nita, lifting her large orbs to his face with a look of surprise, for
although the sun may be said to have risen as regards the world at large, it had not yet surmounted
the range of Mont Blanc, or risen to the inhabitants of Chamouni.  "I not see it; where is
the sunshine?"

"There!" exclaimed Lewis, mentally, as he gazed straight down into her wondering orbs, and
then added aloud, as he swept his arm aloft with a mock-heroic air, "behold it gleaming on
the mountain-ridges."

There is no doubt that the enthusiasm of Lewis as to the weather, scenery, and sunshine would
have been much reduced, perhaps quenched altogether, if Nita had not been there, for the youth
was steeped in that exquisite condition termed first love,--the very torments incident to which
are moderated joys,--but it must not be supposed that he conducted himself with the maudlin
sentimentality not unfrequently allied to that condition.  Although a mischievous and, we are
bound to admit, a reckless youth, he was masculine in his temperament, and capable of being
deeply, though not easily, stirred into enthusiasm.  It was quite in accordance with this nature
that his jesting tone and manner suddenly vanished as his gaze became riveted on the ridge
to which he had carelessly directed attention.  Even Nita was for a moment forgotten in the
sight that met his eyes, for the trees and bushes which crowned the ridge were to all appearance
composed of solid fire!

"Did you ever see anything like that before Emma?" he asked, eagerly.

"Never; I have seen sunrises and sunsets in many parts of our own land, but nothing at all
like that; what can be the cause of it?"

There was good reason for the wonder thus called forth, for the light was not on the trees
but behind them.  The sun had not quite risen, but was very near the summit of the ridge, so
that these trees and bushes were pictured, as it were, against the brightest part of the glowing
sky.  In such circumstances we are taught by ordinary experience that objects will be unusually
dark, but these trees were incomparably brighter than the glowing sky itself.  It was not that
their mere edges were tipped with fire, but their entire substance, even to the central core
of the pine-stems, was to all appearance made of pure light, as if each tree and shrub had
been made of steel raised to a condition of intense white heat.  No shining of the sun through
or upon trees can convey the slightest idea of the sight.  It was something absolutely new
to our travellers, and roused their astonishment as well as wonder to the highest pitch.

"Oh!" exclaimed Nita, clasping her hands with a force peculiar to her demonstrative nature,
"how wonderful!  How I do wish the Professor was here to tell us how and what it be."

That evening the Professor, who had observed the phenomenon more than once, told them all he
knew about it.  There were differences of opinion, he said, as to the cause, for men of physical
science, not less than doctors, were prone to differ.  For himself, he had only noted the facts
and knew not the cause.  The luminous trees appeared only at that part of the ridge where the
sun was just going to rise--elsewhere the trees were projected as dark objects, in the usual
way, against the bright sky.  Not only were the trees thus apparently self-luminous, but when
birds chanced to be flying amongst them, they had the appearance of sparks of molten silver
flitting to and fro.  See Note 1.

"But you have not yet told me, ladies," said Lewis, as they resumed their walk, "what has induced
you to indulge in so early a ramble to-day?"

"Can you not imagine," said Nita, "that it is the love of Nature?"

"Undoubtedly I can; but as this is the first time since we came that you have chosen to display
a love for Nature before breakfast, I may be forgiven for supposing there is another and no
doubt secondary cause."

"You are right," said Emma; "were you not present last night when we discussed our plans for
to-day?"

"No, he was in the verandah," interposed Nita, with an arch smile, "indulging that savage and
unintellectual taste you call smoking."

"Ah, Mademoiselle, be not too severe.  It may not, indeed, be styled an intellectual pursuit,
but neither, surely, can it be called savage, seeing that it softens and ameliorates the rugged
spirit of man."

"It is savage," returned Nita, "because you do not encourage ladies to join you in it."

"Pardon me, Mademoiselle," cried Lewis, pulling out his cigar-case, "nothing would gratify
me more than your acceptance of--"

"Insult me not, Monsieur," said Nita, with a toss of her pretty little head, "but reply to
your cousin's question."

"Ah, to be sure, well--let me see, what was it?  Was I present when the plans for the day were
arranged?  Yes I was, but I missed the first part of the conversation, having been, as Mademoiselle
Horetzki truly observes, occupied with that--a--"

"Savage habit," interposed Nita.

"Savage habit," said Lewis, "the savage element of which I am willing to do away with at a
moment's notice when desired.  I merely heard that the professor had fixed to go on the glacier
for the purpose of measuring it, as though it were a badly clad giant, and he a scientific
tailor who had undertaken to make a top-coat for it.  I also heard that you two had decided
on a walk before breakfast, and, not caring to do tailoring on the ice, I begged leave to join
you--therefore I am here."

"Ah, you prefer woman's society and safety to manly exercise and danger!" said Nita.

Although Lewis was, as we have said, by no means an effeminate youth, he was at that age when
the male creature shrinks from the slightest imputation of a lack of manliness.  He coloured,
therefore, as he laughingly replied that in his humble opinion his present walk involved the
manly exercise of moral courage in withstanding shafts of sarcasm, which were far more dangerous
in his eyes than hidden crevasses or flying boulders.

"But you both forget," interposed Emma, "that I have not yet explained the object of our morning
walk."

"True, cousin, let us have it."

"Well," continued Emma, "when you were engages in your `savage' indulgence, a difficulty stood
in the way of the Professor's plans, inasmuch as our guide Antoine had asked and obtained leave
to absent himself a couple of days for the purpose of taking his wife and child over the country
to pay a short visit to a relative in some valley, the name of which I forget.  Antoine had
said that he would be quite willing to give up his leave of absence if a messenger were sent
to inform his wife of his change of plan, and to ask a certain Baptist Le Croix, who lives
close beside her, to be her guide.  As we two did not mean to join the ice-party, we at once
offered to be the messengers.  Hence our present expedition at so early an hour.  After seeing
Madame Antoine Grennon and having breakfast we mean to spend the day in sketching."

"May I join you in this after-portion of the day's work?" asked Lewis. "I may not, indeed,
claim to use the pencil with the facility of our friend Slingsby, but I am not altogether destitute
of a little native talent in that way.  I will promise to give you both as many cigars as you
choose, and will submit my sketches to Mademoiselle's criticism, which will be incurring extreme
danger."

"Well, you may come," said Nita, with a condescending nod, "but pray fulfil the first part
of your promise, give me the cigars."

Lewis drew them out with alacrity, and laughingly asked, "how many?"

"All of them; the case also."

In some surprise the youth put the cigar-case into her hand, and she immediately flung it into
a neighbouring pool.

"Ah, how cruel," said Lewis, putting on a most forlorn look, while Emma gave vent to one of
her subdued little explosions of laughter.

"What! is our society not enough for Monsieur?" asked Nita, in affected surprise.

"More than enough," replied Lewis, with affected enthusiasm.

"Then you can be happy without your cigars," returned Nita.

"Perfectly happy," replied Lewis, taking a small case from his pocket, from which he extracted
a neat little meerschaum pipe, and began to fill it with tobacco.

Again Emma had occasion to open the safety-valve of another little explosive laugh; but before
anything further could be said, they came in sight of Antoine Grennon's cottage.

It was prettily situated beneath a clump of pines.  A small stream, spanned by a rustic bridge,
danced past it.  Under the shadow of the bridge they saw Madame engaged in washing linen. 
She had a washing-tub, of course, but instead of putting the linen into this she put herself
in it, after having made an island of it by placing it a few inches deep in the stream.  Thus
she could kneel and get at the water conveniently without wetting her knees or skirts.  On
a sloping slab of wood she manipulated the linen with such instrumentality as cold water, soap,
a wooden mallet and a hard brush.  Beside her, in a miniature tub, her little daughter conducted
a miniature washing.

The three travellers, looking over the bridge, could witness the operation without being themselves
observed.

"It is a lively process," remarked Lewis, as Madame seized a mass of linen with great vigour,
and caused it to fall on the sloping plank with a sounding slap.

Madame was an exceedingly handsome and well-made woman, turned thirty, and much inclined to
embonpoint.  Her daughter was turned three, and still more inclined to the same condition.
Their rounded, well-shaped, and muscular arms, acted very much in the same way, only Madame's
vigour was a good deal more intense and persistent--too much so, perhaps, for the fabrics with
which she had to deal; but if the said fabrics possessed the smallest degree of consciousness,
they could not have had the heart to complain of rough treatment from such neat though strong
hands, while being smiled upon by such a pretty, though decisive countenance.

"It is dreadfully rough treatment," said Emma, whose domestic-economical spirit was rather shocked.

"Terrible!" exclaimed Nita, as Madame gripped another article of apparel and beat it with her
mallet as though it had been the skull of her bitterest enemy, while soap-suds and water spurted
from it as if they had been that enemy's brains.

"And she washes, I believe, for our hotel," said Emma, with a slightly troubled expression.
Perhaps a thought of her work-box and buttons flashed across her mind at the moment.

"You are right," said Lewis, with a pleased smile.

"I heard Antoine say to Gillie, the other day, that his wife washed a large portion of the
hotel linen.  No doubt some of ours is amongst it. Indeed I am sure of it," he added, with
a look of quiet gravity, as Madame Grennon seized another article, swished it through the water,
caused it to resound on the plank, and scrubbed it powerfully with soap; "that a what's-'is-name,
belongs to me.  I know it by the cut of its collar.  Formerly, I used to know it chiefly by
its fair and fragile texture.  I shall know it hereafter as an amazing illustration of the
truth of the proverb, that no one knows what he can stand till he is tried.  The blows which
she is at present delivering to it with her mallet, are fast driving all preconceived notions
in regard to linen out of my head.  Scrubbing it, as she does now, with a hard brush, against
the asperities of the rough plank, and then twisting it up like a roly-poly prior to swishing
it through the water a second time, would once have induced me to doubt the strength of delicate
mother-of-pearl buttons and fine white thread.  I shall doubt no longer."

As he said so, Madame Grennon chanced to look up, and caught sight of the strangers.  She rose
at once, and, forsaking her tub, advanced to meet them, the curly-haired daughter following
close at her heels, for, wherever her mother went she followed, and whatever her mother did
she imitated.

The object of the visit was soon explained, and the good woman led the visitors into her hut
where Baptist Le Croix chanced to be at the time.

There was something very striking in the appearance of this man.  He was a tall fine-looking
fellow, a little past the prime of life, but with a frame whose great muscular power was in
no degree abated.  His face was grave, good-natured, and deeply sunburnt; but there was a peculiarly
anxious look about the eyes, and a restless motion in them, as if he were constantly searching
for something which he could not find.

He willingly undertook to conduct his friend's wife and child to the residence of their relative.

On leaving the hut to return to Chamouni, Madame Grennon accompanied her visitors a short way,
and Nita took occasion, while expressing admiration of Baptist's appearance, to comment on
his curiously anxious look.

"Ah!  Mademoiselle," said Madame, with a half sad look, "the poor man is taken up with a strange
notion--some people call it a delusion--that gold is to be found somewhere here in the mountains."

"Gold?" cried Nita, with such energy that her companions looked at her in surprise.

"Why, Nita," exclaimed Emma, "your looks are almost as troubled and anxious as those of Le
Croix himself."

"How strange!" said Nita, musing and paying no attention to Emma's remark.  "Why does he think so?"

"Indeed, Mademoiselle, I cannot tell; but he seems quite sure of it, and spends nearly all
his time in the mountains searching for gold, and hunting the chamois."

They parted here, and for a time Lewis tried to rally Nita about what he styled her sympathy
with the chamois-hunter, but Nita did not retort with her wonted sprightliness; the flow of
her spirits was obviously checked, and did not return during their walk back to the hotel.

While this little incident was enacting in the valley, events of a far different nature were
taking place among the mountains, into the solitudes of which the Professor, accompanied by
Captain Wopper, Lawrence, Slingsby, and Gillie, and led by Antoine, had penetrated for the
purpose of ascertaining the motion of a huge precipice of ice.

"You are not a nervous man, I think," said the Professor to Antoine as they plodded over the
ice together.

"No, Monsieur, not very," answered the guide, with a smile and a sly glance out of the corners
of his eyes.  Captain Wopper laughed aloud at the question, and Gillie grinned.  Gillie's countenance
was frequently the residence of a broad grin.  Nature had furnished him with a keen sense of
the ludicrous, and a remarkably open countenance.  Human beings are said to be blind to their
own peculiarities.

If Gillie had been an exception to this rule and if he could have, by some magical power, been
enabled to stand aside and look at his own spider-like little frame, as others saw it, clad
in blue tights and buttons, it is highly probable that he would have expired in laughing at
himself.

"I ask the question," continued the Professor, "because I mean to request your assistance in
taking measurements in a somewhat dangerous place, namely, the ice-precipice of the Tacul."

"It is well, Monsieur," returned the guide, with another smile, "I am a little used to dangerous
places."

Gillie pulled his small hands out of the trouser-pockets in which he usually carried them,
and rubbed them by way of expressing his gleeful feelings.  Had the sentiment which predominated
in his little mind been audibly expressed, it would probably have found vent in some such phrase
as, "won't there be fun, neither--oh dear no, not by no means."  To him the height of happiness
was the practice of mischief.  Danger in his estimation meant an extremely delicious form of
mischief.

"Is the place picturesque as well as dangerous?" asked Slingsby, with a wild look in his large
eyes as he walked nearer to the Professor.

"It is; you will find many aspects of ice-formation well worthy of your pencil."

It is due to the artist to say that his wildness that morning was not the result only of despair
at the obvious indifference with which Nita regarded him.  It was the combination of that wretched
condition with a heroic resolve to forsake the coy maiden and return to his first love-- his
beloved art--that excited him; and the idea of renewing his devotion to her in dangerous circumstances
was rather congenial to his savage state of mind.  It may be here remarked that Mr Slingsby,
besides being an enthusiastic painter, was an original genius in a variety of ways. Among other
qualities he possessed an inventive mind, and, besides having had an ice-axe made after a pattern
of his own,--which was entirely new and nearly useless,--he had designed a new style of belt
with a powerful rope having a hook attached to it, with which he proposed, and actually managed,
to clamber up and down difficult places, and thus attain points of vantage for sketching. 
Several times had he been rescued by guides from positions of extreme peril, but his daring
and altogether unteachable spirit had thrown him again and again into new conditions of danger.
He was armed with his formidable belt and rope on the present excursion, and his aspect was
such that his friends felt rather uneasy about him, and would not have been surprised if he
had put the belt round his neck instead of his waist, and attempted to hang himself.

"Do you expect to complete your measurements to-day?" asked Lawrence, who accompanied the Professor
as his assistant.

"Oh no.  That were impossible.  I can merely fix my stakes to-day and leave them.  To-morrow
or next day I will return to observe the result."

The eastern side of the Glacier du Geant, near the Tacul, at which they soon arrived, showed
an almost perpendicular precipice about 140 feet high.  As they collected in a group in front
of that mighty pale-blue wall, the danger to which the Professor had alluded became apparent,
even to the most inexperienced eye among them.  High on the summit of the precipice, where
its edge cut sharply against the blue sky, could be seen the black boulders and debris of the
lateral moraine of the glacier.  The day was unusually warm, and the ice melted so rapidly
that parts of this moraine were being sent down in frequent avalanches.  The rustle of debris
was almost incessant, and, ever and anon, the rustle rose into a roar as great boulders bounded
over the edge, and, after dashing portions of the ice-cliffs into atoms, went smoking down
into the chaos below.  It was just beyond this chaos that the party stood.

"Now, Antoine," said the Professor, "I want you to go to the foot of that precipice and fix
a stake in the ice there."

"Well, Monsieur, it shall be done," returned the guide, divesting himself of his knapsack and
shouldering his axe and a stake.

"Meanwhile," continued the Professor, "I will watch the falling debris to warn you of danger
in time, and the direction in which you must run to avoid it.  My friend Lawrence, with the
aid of Captain Wopper, will fix the theodolite on yonder rocky knoll to our left."

"Nothin' for you an' me to do," said Gillie to the artist; "p'r'aps we'd better go and draw--eh?"

Slingsby looked at the blue spider before him with an amused smile, and agreed that his suggestion
was not a bad one, so they went off together.

While Antoine was proceeding to the foot of the ice-cliffs on his dangerous mission, the Professor
observed that the first direction of a falling stone's bound was no sure index of its subsequent
motion, as it was sent hither and thither by the obstructions with which it met.  He therefore
recalled the guide.

"It won't do, Antoine, the danger is too great."

"But, Monsieur, if it is necessary--"

"But it is not necessary that you should risk your life in the pursuit of knowledge.  Besides,
I must have a stake fixed half-way up the face of that precipice."

"Ah, Monsieur," said Antoine, with an incredulous smile, "that is not possible!"

To this the Professor made no reply, but ordered his guide to make a detour and ascend to the
upper edge of the ice-precipice for the purpose of dislodging the larger and more dangerous
blocks of stone there, and, after that, to plant a stake on the summit.

This operation was not quickly performed.  Antoine had to make a long detour to get on the
glacier, and when he did reach the moraine on the top, he found that many of the most dangerous
blocks lay beyond the reach of his axe.  However, he sent the smaller debris in copious showers
down the precipice, and by cleverly rolling some comparatively small boulders down upon those
larger ones which lay out of reach, he succeeded in dislodging many of them.  This accomplished,
he proceeded to fix the stake on the upper surface of the glacier.

While he was thus occupied, the Professor assisted Lawrence in fixing the theodolite, and then,
leaving him, went to a neighbouring heap of debris followed by the Captain, whom he stationed
there.

"I want you," he said, "to keep a good look-out and warn me as to which way I must run to avoid
falling rocks.  Antoine has dislodged many of them, but some he cannot reach.  These enemies
must be watched."

So saying, the Professor placed a stake and an auger against his breast, buttoned his coat
over them, and shouldered his axe.

"You don't mean to say that you're agoing to go under that cliff?" exclaimed the Captain, in
great surprise, laying his hand on the Professor's arm and detaining him.

"My friend," returned the man of science, "do not detain me.  Time is precious just now.  You
have placed yourself under my orders for the day, and, being a seaman, must understand the
value of prompt obedience. Do as I bid you."

He turned and went off at a swinging pace towards the foot of the ice-cliff, while the Captain,
in a state of anxiety, amounting almost to consternation, sat down on a boulder, took off his
hat, wiped his heated brow, pronounced the Professor as mad as a March hare, and prepared to
discharge his duties as "the look-out."

Although cool as a cucumber in all circumstances at sea, where he knew every danger and how
to meet or avoid it, the worthy Captain now almost lost self-control and became intensely agitated
and anxious, insomuch that he gave frequent and hurried false alarms, which he no less hurriedly
attempted to correct, sometimes in nautical terms, much to the confusion of the Professor.

"Hallo! hi! look out--starboard--sta-a-arboard!" he shouted wildly, on beholding a rock about
the size of a chest of drawers spring from the heights above and rush downward, with a smoke
of ice-dust and debris following, "quick! there! no! port!  Port!  I say it's--"

Before he could finish the sentence, the mass had fallen a long way to the right of the Professor,
and lay quiet on the ice not far from where the Captain stood.

In spite of the interruptions thus caused, the lower stake was fixed in a few minutes.  The
Professor then swung his axe vigorously, and began to cut an oblique stair-case in the ice
up the sheer face of the precipice.

In some respects the danger to the bold adventurer was now not so great because, being, as
it were, flat against the ice-cliffs, falling rocks were more likely, by striking some projection,
to bound beyond him. Still there was the danger of deflected shots, and when, by cutting a
succession of notches in which to place one foot at a time, he had ascended to the height of
an average three-storey house, the danger of losing his balance or slipping a foot became very
great indeed.  But the man of science persevered in doing what he conceived to be his duty
with as much coolness as if he were the leader of a forlorn hope.  Following the example of
experienced ice-men on steep places, he took good care to make the notches or steps slope a
little inwards, never lifted his foot from one step until the next was ready, and never swung
his axe until his balance was perfectly secured.  Having gained a height of about thirty feet,
he pierced a hole with his auger, fastened a stake in it, and descended amid a heavy cannonade
of boulders and a smart fire of smaller debris.

During the whole proceeding Lawrence directed his friend as to the placing of the stake, and
watched with surprise as well as anxiety, while Captain Wopper kept on shouting unintelligible
words of warning in a state of extreme agitation.  The guide returned just in time to see this
part of the work completed, and to remonstrate gravely with the Professor on his reckless conduct.

"`All's well that ends well,' Antoine, as a great poet says," replied the Professor, with one
of his most genial smiles.  "We must run some risk in the pursuit of scientific investigation.
Now then, Lawrence, I hope you have got the three stakes in the same line--let me see."

Applying his eye to the theodolite, he found that the stakes were in an exactly perpendicular
line, one above another.  He then carefully marked the spot occupied by the instrument and
thus completed his labours for that time.

We may add here in passing that next day he returned to the same place, and found that in twenty-four
hours the bottom stake had moved downwards a little more than two inches, the middle stake
had descended a little more than three, and the upper stake exactly six inches.  Thus he was
enabled to corroborate the fact which had been ascertained by other men of science before him,
that glacier-motion is more rapid at the top than at the bottom, where the friction against
its bed tends to hinder its advance, and that the rate of flow increases gradually from the
bottom upwards.

While these points of interest were being established, our artist was not less earnestly engaged
in prosecuting his own peculiar work, to the intense interest of Gillie, who, although he had
seen and admired many a picture in the London shop-windows, had never before witnessed the
actual process by which such things are created.

Wandering away on the glacier among some fantastically formed and towering blocks or obelisks
of ice, Mr Slingsby expressed to Gillie his admiration of their picturesque shapes and delicate
blue colour, in language which his small companion did not clearly understand, but which he
highly approved of notwithstanding.

"I think this one is worth painting," cried Slingsby, pausing and throwing himself into an
observant attitude before a natural arch, from the roof of which depended some large icicles;
"it is extremely picturesque."

"I think," said Gillie, with earnest gravity, "that yonder's one as is more picturesker."

He had carefully watched the artist's various observant attitudes, and now threw himself into
one of these as he pointed to a sloping obelisk, the size of an average church-steeple, which
bore some resemblance to the leaning-tower of Pisa.

"You are right, boy; that is a better mass.  Come, let us go paint it."

While walking towards it, Gillie asked how such wild masses came to be made.

"I am told by the Professor," said Slingsby, "that when the ice cracks across, and afterwards
lengthwise, the square blocks thus formed get detached as they descend the valley, and assume
these fantastic forms."

"Ah! jis so.  They descends the walley, does they?"

"So it is said."

Gillie made no reply, though he said in his heart, "you won't git me to swaller that, by no
manner of means."  His unbelief was, however, rebuked by the leaning-tower of Pisa giving a
terrible rend at that moment, and slowly bending forward.  It was an alarming as well as grand
sight, for they were pretty near to it.  Some smaller blocks of ice that lay below prevented
the tower from being broken in its fall.  These were crushed to powder by it, and then, as
if they formed a convenient carriage for it, the mighty mass slid slowly down the slope for
a few feet.  It was checked for a moment by another block, which, however, gave way before
the great pressure, fell aside and let it pass.  The slope was slight at the spot so that the
obelisk moved slowly, and once or twice seemed on the point of stopping, but as if it had become
endowed with life, it made a sudden thrust, squeezed two or three obstacles flat, turned others
aside, and thus wound its way among its fellows with a low groaning sound like some sluggish
monster of the antediluvian world.  Reaching a steeper part of the glacier, on the ridge of
which it hung for a moment, as if unwilling to exert itself, it seemed to awake to the reality
of its position.  Making a lively rush, that seemed tremendously inconsistent with its weight,
it shot over the edge of a yawning crevasse, burst with a thunderclap on the opposite ice-cliff,
and went roaring into the dark bowels of the glacier, whence the echoes of its tumbling masses,
subdued by distance, came up like the mutterings of evil spirits.

Gillie viewed this wondrous spectacle with an awe-stricken heart, and then vented his feelings
in a prolonged yell of ecstasy.

"Ain't it splendid, sir?" he cried, turning his glowing eyes on Slingsby.

"Majestic!" exclaimed the artist, whose enthusiasm was equal to that of his companion, though
not quite so demonstrative.

"Raither spoiled your drawin', though, ain't it, sir?"

"Yonder is something quite as good, if not better," said Slingsby.

He pointed, as he spoke, to a part of the crevasse higher up on the glacier, where a projecting
cave of snow overhung the abyss.  From the under-surface of this a number of gigantic icicles
hung, the lower points of the longer ones almost lost in the blue depths.  A good position
from which to sketch it, however, was not easily reached, and it was only by getting close
to the edge of the crevasse that the persevering artist at length attained his object.  Here
he sat down on his top-coat, folded several times to guard him from the cold ice, spread out
his colour-box and sketching-block, and otherwise made himself comfortable, while Gillie sat
down beside him on his own cap, for want of a better protector.

Had these two enthusiasts known the nature of their position, they would have retired from
it precipitately with horror, for, ignorant of almost everything connected with glaciers, they
had walked right off the solid ice and seated themselves on a comparatively thin projecting
ledge of snow which overhung the crevasse.  Thus they remained for some time enjoying themselves,
with death, as it were, waiting for them underneath!  What rendered their position more critical
was the great heat of the day, which, whatever might be the strength of the sustaining ledge,
was reducing its bulk continually.

After having sketched for some time, the artist thought it advisable to see as far down into
the crevasse as possible, in order to put in the point of the longest icicle.  The better to
do this, he unwound his rope from his waist and flung it on the ice by his side, while he lay
down on his breast and looked over the edge.  Still he did not perceive the danger of his position,
and went on sketching diligently in this awkward attitude.

Now it was a melancholy fact that Master Gillie's interest in art or science was short-lived,
though keen.  He soon tired of watching his companion, and began to look about him with a view
to mischief.  Not seeing anything specially suggestive, he thought of aiding the operations
of nature by expediting the descent of some neighbouring boulders from their positions on ice-blocks.
He intimated his intention to Slingsby, but the artist was too much engrossed to give heed
to him. Just as he was rising, Gillie's eye fell on the rope, and a happy thought struck him.
To carry striking thoughts into immediate execution was a marked feature of the boy's character.
He observed that one end of the rope was attached to Mr Slingsby's belt.  Taking up the hook
at the other end, he went with it towards a large boulder, drawing the rope after him with
extreme care, for fear of arousing his companion by a tug.  He found that, when fully stretched,
it was just long enough to pass round the rock.  Quickly fastening it, therefore, by means
of the hook, he walked quietly away.

He did not exhibit much excitement while doing this.  It was, after all, but a trifling jest
in his esteem, as the only result to be hoped for would be the giving of a surprise by the
little tug which might perhaps be experienced by the artist on rising.

Thereafter, Gillie sent innumerable ice-blocks to premature destruction, and enjoyed the work
immensely for a time, but, having exploratory tendencies, he soon wandered about among obelisks
and caverns until he found himself underneath the ice-cliff on which his friend was seated.
Then, as he looked up at the overhanging ledge from which gigantic icicles were hanging, a
shock of alarm thrilled his little breast.  This was increased by the falling of one of the
icicles, which went like a blue javelin into the crevasse beside him.  Gillie thought of shouting
to warn Mr Slingsby of his danger, but before he could do so he was startled by an appalling
yell.  At the same moment part of the ice overhead gave way, and he beheld the artist descending.
He was stopped with a sudden jerk, as the rope tightened, and remained suspended in the air,
while his coat and colour-box accompanied icicles and snow-blocks into the abyss below.  A
second later and the struggling artist's head appeared to fall off, but it was only his hat.

Gillie had by this time recovered himself so far as to be able to add his piercing shrieks
for help to the cries of the artist, and well was it that day for Mr Slingsby that Gillie had,
since the years of infancy, practised his lungs to some purpose in terrifying cats and defying
"Bobbies" in the streets of London.

"Oh, sir! sir!--I say--hi!" he cried, panting and glaring up.

"Eh? what?  Hah!" gasped Slingsby, panting and glaring down.

"Don't kick like that sir; pray don't," cried Gillie in agonised tones, "you'll start the boulder
wot yer fast to, if you don't keep still."

"Oh!" groaned the artist and instantly hung limp and motionless, in which condition he remained
while Gillie ran towards the place where he had left the rest of the party, jumping and slipping
and falling and yelling over the ice like a maniac in blue and buttons!

"D'ee hear that?" exclaimed Captain Wopper with a startled look, as he and his companions busied
themselves packing up their instruments.

Antoine Grennon heard it but made no reply.  He was familiar with cries of alarm.  Turning
abruptly he dashed off at full speed in the direction whence the cries came.  The Captain and
Professor instantly followed; Lawrence overtook and passed them.  In a few minutes they met
the terrified boy, who, instead of waiting for them and wasting time by telling what was wrong,
turned sharp round, gave one wild wave of his hand, and ran straight back to the ledge from
which poor Slingsby hung. Stout willing arms were soon pulling cautiously on the rope, and
in a few minutes more the artist lay upon the safe ice, almost speechless from terror, and
with a deadly pallor on his brow.

Strange to say the indomitable artist had held on tight to his sketch-book, possibly because
it was almost as dear to him as life, but more probably because of that feeling which induces
a drowning man to clutch at a straw.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note 1.  We ourselves had the satisfaction of witnessing this wonderful and beautiful phenomenon
before having read or heard of it, while on a trip from Chamouni to Martigny over the Tete Noire.

CHAPTER FOURTEEN.

THE GRAND ASCENT BEGUN.

Mrs Stoutley, reposing at full length on a sofa in the salon one evening, observed to the Count
Horetzki that she really could not understand it at all; that it seemed to her a tempting of
Providence to risk one's life for nothing, and that upon the whole she thought these excursions
on glaciers were very useless and foolish.

The salon was full of people grouped in little knots, fighting the battles of the day o'er
again, playing backgammon and chess, or poring over maps and guide-books.

"It does indeed seem foolish," answered the Count whose native politeness induced him always
to agree with ladies when possible, "and as far as any practical purpose is served I should
think it useless. Nevertheless it seems to afford amusement to many people, and amusement,
in some form or other, would appear to be almost necessary to our happy existence."

"True," replied Mrs Stoutley, languidly, "but people ought to content themselves with quiet
and safe amusements.  How ridiculous it is to find pleasure in climbing ice-precipices, and
leaping over crevasses, and sitting under shower-baths of boulder-stones.  I'm sure that I
could not find pleasure in such pranks even if I were to make the effort.  How much better
to seek and find enjoyment in wandering with a book through shady forests and gathering wild-flowers!
Don't you agree with me, Count?"

The Count's usually grave and anxious visage relaxed into a smile as he protested that he agreed
with her entirely.  "At the same time," he added, "there does appear to be some sort of aspiring
tendency in the young and strong, to attempt the repression of which would seem to be useless,
even if desirable.  Do you know, Madame, while on a voyage some years ago I saw a boy who used
to dive off the fore-yard-arm into the sea, and who went regularly every morning before breakfast
to the main-mast-head and sat on that button-like piece of wood called the truck?"

"How very reckless," said Mrs Stoutley, "and how shamefully regardless of the feelings of his
mother, for of course if he had a mother, and if she were a woman of right feeling, she must
have been horrified!"

"I am afraid, Madame, that you would have esteemed her a lady of wrong feeling, for she applauded
her boy, and used to say that if he only took care to acquire as much moral as he had physical
courage, so as to become as brave and bold a soldier of the Cross as he was sure to be of the
Crown, he would resemble his own father, who was the best and bravest man that ever lived."

"How strange!" murmured Mrs Stoutley, "such inconsistencies!  But there does seem to be a considerable
number of masculine women in the world, who encourage what we call muscular Christianity."

"Yes, there are indeed strange inconsistencies around us," returned the Count.  "You have,
however, mistaken the character of this particular mother, for she was the reverse of masculine,
being delicate, and tender-hearted, and refined, and ladylike, while her boy was bold as a
lion--yet obedient and gentle to her as a lamb.  He afterwards became a soldier, and on the
occasion of a wild storm on the east coast of England he swam off to a wreck with a rope, when
no man in the place could be got to do it for love or money, and was the means of rescuing
four women and six men, in accomplishing which, however, he lost his life."

"Oh, how shocking! how very sad!" said Mrs Stoutley, startled into animation by the suddenness
of the revelation, "and how different it might have been if the youth had been trained to gentler
amusements.  He might have been alive now."

"Yes," returned the Count, "and the four women and six men might have been dead!  But here
come two friends who are better able to give an opinion on the point than I am."

"What may the pint be?" asked Captain Wopper, with a genial smile, as if he were ready to tackle
anything from a pint of beer to a "pint" of the compass.  "Only state your case, Mrs Stoutley,
an' the Professor here, he'll act the judge, an' I'll be the jury."

"The jury is too small," said Lewis, coming up at that moment.

"Small, young man!" repeated the Captain, with feigned surprise, as he drew himself up to his
full height and squared his broad shoulders.

"Not physically, but numerically," retorted Lewis, with a laugh--"ho! Emma, Miss Horetzki,
Lawrence, Slingsby," he called to the quartette, who sat chatting in a bay window, "you are
hereby summoned to act on a jury.  Come along and have yourselves impaled--I mean to say impannelled.
A most important case, just going on for trial."

"What is the nature of the case?" asked Lawrence, as they all came forward and sat down in
a semicircle before Mrs Stoutley.

"It han't got no natur--it's unnateral altogether," said the Captain, who had just heard it
briefly stated by the Count.

"Hallo! are you appointed public prosecutor?" demanded Lewis.

"Yes, I am," retorted the Captain, "I've appinted myself public persecuter, Lord Advocate,
Lord High Commissioner to the Woolsack, an' any other legal an' illegal character ye choose
to name.  So you clap a stopper on yer muzzle, youngster, while I state the case.  Here is
Mrs Stoutley, my lords, ladies, and gentlemen, who says that climbin', an' gaugin', and glaciers
is foolish and useless.  That's two counts which the Count here (nothin' personal meant) says
the prisoner was guilty of. We'll go in an' win on the last count, for if these things ain't
useless, d'ee see, they can't be foolish.  Well, the question is, `Guilty or not guilty?'"

"Guilty!" replied Mrs Stoutley, with an amused smile.

"Hear! hear!" from Slingsby.

"Silence in the Court!" from Lewis.

"I'm afraid," said the Professor, "that our forms of legal procedure are somewhat irregular."

"Never mind that, Professor," said the Captain, "you go ahead an' prove the prisoner wrong.
Take the wind out of her sails if 'ee can."

The Professor smiled blandly, and began in jest; but his enthusiastic spirit and love of abstract
truth soon made him argue in earnest.

"Oh, that's all very well," said Mrs Stoutley, interrupting him, "but what possible use can
there be in knowing the rate of speed at which a glacier flows?  What does it matter whether
it flows six, or sixty, or six hundred feet in a day?"

"Matter!" cried Lewis, before the Professor could reply, "why, it matters very much indeed.
I can prove it.  Our excellent guide Antoine told me of a man who fell into a crevasse high
up on the Glacier des Bossons, and was of course lost; but about forty years afterwards the
part of the glacier into which he fell had descended into the valley, and the body of the man
was found--at least portions of it were found here and there.  This, as you are all aware,
is a well-known fact.  Bear in mind, in connection with this, that all glaciers do not travel
at the same rate, nor all parts of a glacier at an equal rate.  Now, suppose that you were
to lose a gold watch or a diamond ring in a crevasse, the value of which might be incalculable
in consequence of being a gift from some beloved one, would it not be a matter of the last
importance to know exactly the rate at which the said crevasse travelled, so that you or your
grandchildren might return at the precise time and claim the property?"

"Don't talk nonsense, Lewie," said his mother.

"No doubt," said the Professor, laughing, "my young friend's illustration is to the point,
and I fear that I cannot give you anything more definite to prove the value of glacial measurements
and observations.  I must rest my proof on the abstract truth that all knowledge is desirable,
and ought to be sought after for its own sake, as being the means whereby we shall come better
to know the good and wise Creator, `whom to know,' as His own Word says, `is life eternal'
But I can give you distinct proof, in a somewhat analogous case, of good resulting from knowledge
which was eagerly pursued and acquired without the searcher having the slightest idea as to
the use to which his knowledge would be ultimately put.  You have doubtless heard of Captain
Maury, of the United States Navy?"

"Oh yes," replied Mrs Stoutley, "he who writes that charming book, the Physical Geography of
the Sea, or some such title.  My son is a great admirer of that work.  I tried to read it to
please him, but I must confess that I could not go far into it.  It seemed to me an endless
and useless search after currents of wind and water."

"I see you must have missed the very illustrations which I am about to cite, for they are given
in his book--one of the most interesting I ever read, and not the less interesting that its
author distinguishes a connection between the Creator's Word and His works.  You know that
Captain Maury's investigations of currents of wind and water were conducted wisely, and on
a vast scale.  Nautical men of many nations sent in their `logs' to him, and he patiently collected
and collated all the facts observed in all parts of the ocean."

"Yes, and quite useless knowledge, it appears to me," said Mrs Stoutley.

"Well, we shall see," returned the Professor.  "There was once a terrible storm on the Atlantic,
and a vessel with troops on board was so disabled as to be left at last a helpless log upon
the sea.  She was passed by other vessels, but these could render no assistance, owing to the
raging storm.  They, however, took note of the latitude and longitude of the wreck, and reported
her on arriving at New York.  A rescue-ship was at once ordered to search for her, but, before
sailing, Captain Maury was applied to for instructions how they should proceed. The man of
science was seated in his study, had probably scarce observed the storm, and knew nothing about
the wreck save her position, as observed at a certain date.  Why, therefore, we might ask;
apply to him? Just because he sat at the fountain-head of such knowledge as was needed.  He
had long studied, and well knew, the currents of the ocean, their direction and their rate
of progress at specified times and particular places.  He prepared a chart and marked a spot
at, or near which, the wreck, he said, would probably be found.  The wreck was found--not indeed
by the rescue-ship, but by another vessel, at the very spot indicated--and the surviving crew
and troops were saved.  So, in like manner, the study of truth regarding currents of air has
led us to knowledge which enables mariners to escape the Atlantic Sargasso-sea--"

"Ha! the Doldrums," growled Captain Wopper, as if he had a special and bitter hatred of that
sea.  "Yes, the Doldrums, or Sargasso-sea, where ships used to be detained by long, vexatious
calms, and islands of floating sea-weed, but which now we escape, because studious men have
pointed out, that by sailing to one side of that sea you can get into favourable breezes, avoid
the calm regions, and thus save much time."

"Now, Madame," said Captain Wopper, "are you convinced?"

"Not quite," replied Mrs Stoutley, with a baffled look; "but, I suppose, on the strength of
this, and similar reasons, you intend to ascend Mont Blanc to-morrow?"

"We do," said the Professor.  "I intend to go for the purpose of attempting to fix a thermometer
on the summit, in order to ascertain, if possible, the winter temperature."

"And pray, for what purpose?" said Mrs Stoutley with a touch of sarcasm, "does Dr Lawrence
intend to go?"

"For the purpose of seeing the magnificent view, and of testing the lungs and muscles, which
are now, I think, sufficiently trained to enable me to make the ascent with ease," replied
the doctor, promptly.

"I go to assist the Professor," said Captain Wopper.

"And I," said Lewis, "intend to go for fun; so you see, mother, as our reasons are all good,
you had better go to bed, for it's getting late."

Mrs Stoutley accepted the suggestion, delivered a yawn into her pocket-handkerchief, and retired,
as she remarked, to ascend Mont Blanc in dreams, and thus have all the pleasure without the
bodily fatigue.

We are on the sides of the mountain monarch now, slowly wending our way through the sable fringe
of pines that ornaments the skirt of his white mantle.  We tramp along very slowly, for Antoine
Grennon is in front and won't allow us to go faster.  To the impatient and youthful spirits
of Lawrence and Lewis, the pace appears ridiculously slow, and the latter does not hesitate
to make audible reference in his best French to the progress of snails, but Antoine is deaf
to such references.  One might fancy that he did not understand bad French, but for the momentary
twinkle in his earnest eyes.  But nothing will induce him to mend his pace, for well does he
know that the ascent of Mont Blanc is no trifle; that even trained lungs and muscles are pretty
severely taxed before the fifteen thousand seven hundred and eighty feet of perpendicular height
above the sea-level is placed below the soles of the feet.  He knows, also, from long experience,
that he who would climb a mountain well, and use his strength to advantage, must begin with
a slow, leisurely pace, as if he were merely out for a saunter, yet must progress with steady,
persevering regularity.  He knows, too, that young blood is prone to breast a mountain with
head erect and spanking action, and to descend with woeful countenance and limp limbs.  It
must be restrained, and Antoine does his duty.

The ascent of Mont Blanc cannot be accomplished in one day.  It is therefore necessary to sleep
at a place named the Grands Mulets, from which a fresh start is made for the summit at the
earliest hours of morning on the second day.  Towards this resting-place our travellers now
directed their steps.

The party consisted of the Professor, Captain Wopper, Lewis, Lawrence, and Slingsby, headed
by their trusty guide, besides three porters with knapsacks containing food, wine, etcetera.
One of these latter was the chamois-hunter, Baptist Le Croix.  He brought up the rear of the
party, and all proceeded in single file, each, like the North American Indian, treading in
his predecessor's footsteps.

Passing from the dark fringe of pines they emerged upon a more open country where the royal
robe was wrought with larch and hazel, bilberry, and varied underwood, and speckled with rhododendrons
and other flowers on a ground of rich brown, green, and grey.  Steadily upwards, over the Glacier
des Bossons, they went, with airy cloudlets floating around them, with the summit at which
they aimed, the Dome du Gouter, and the Aiguille du Gouter in front, luring them on, and other
giant Aiguilles around watching them.  Several hours of steady climbing brought them to the
Pierre l'Echelle, where they were furnished with woollen leggings to protect their legs from
the snow.  Here also they procured a ladder and began the tedious work of traversing the glaciers.
Hitherto their route had lain chiefly on solid ground--over grassy slopes and along rocky paths.
It was now to be confined almost entirely to the ice, which they found to be cut up in all
directions with fissures, so that great caution was needed in crossing crevasses and creeping
round slippery ridges, and progress was for some time very slow.

Coming to one of the crevasses which was too wide to leap, the ladder was put in requisition.
The iron spikes with which one end of it was shod were driven firmly into the ice at one side
of the chasm and the other end rested on the opposite side.

Antoine crossed first and then held out his hand to the Professor, who followed, but the man
of science was an expert ice-man, and in another moment stood at the guide's side without having
required assistance. Not so Captain Wopper.

"I'm not exactly a feather," he said, looking with a doubtful expression at the frail bridge.

"It bore me well enough, Captain," said the Professor with a smile.

"That's just what it didn't," replied the Captain, "it seemed to me to bend too much under
you; besides, although I'm bound to admit that you're a good lump of a man, Professor, I suspect
there's a couple of stones more on me than on you.  If it was only a rope, now, such as I've
bin used to, I'd go at it at once, but--"

"It is quite strong enough," said the guide confidently.

"Well, here goes," returned the mariner, "but if it gives way, Antoine, I'll have you hanged
for murder."

Uttering this threat he crossed in safety, the others followed, and the party advanced over
a part of the glacier which was rugged with mounds, towers, obelisks, and pyramids of ice.
For some time nothing serious interrupted their progress until they came to another wide crevasse,
when it was found, to the guide's indignation, that the ladder had been purposely left behind
by the porter to whom it had been intrusted, he being under the impression that it would not
be further required.

"Blockhead!" cried the Professor, whose enthusiastic spirit was easily roused to indignation,
"it was your duty to carry it till ordered to lay it down.  You were hired to act, sir, not
to think.  Obedience is the highest virtue of a servant!  Shall we send him back for it?" he
said, turning to Antoine with a flushed countenance.

"Not now, Monsieur," answered the guide, "it would create needless delay.  We shall try to
work round the crevasse."

This they did by following its edge until they found a part where crossing was possible, though
attended with considerable danger in consequence of the wedge-like and crumbling nature of the ice.

Hoping that such a difficulty would not occur again they pushed on, but had not gone far when
another, and still more impassable, fissure presented itself.

"How provoking, couldn't we jump it?" said Lewis, looking inquiringly into the dark-blue depths.

"Pr'aps you might, youngster, with your half fledged spider-legs," said the Captain, "but you'll
not catch fourteen-stun-six goin' over that with its own free will.  What's to be done now,
Antoine?"

The guide, after looking at the crevasse for a few minutes, said that the next thing to be
done was to look for a snow-bridge, which he had no doubt would be found somewhere.  In search
of this he scattered the whole party, and in a few minutes a loud shout from the chamois-hunter
told that he had been successful.  The members of the party at once converged towards him,
but found that the success was only partial.  He had indeed found a part of the crevasse, which,
during some of the wild storms so frequent on the mountain, had been bridged over by a snow-wreath,
but the central part of the bridge had given way, and it was thus divided by a gap of about
a foot wide.  This would have been but a small and insignificant step to take had the substance
been solid, but although the ice on one side was strong the opposite edge was comparatively
soft snow, and not much more than a foot thick.  The chamois-hunter, being the lightest of
the party, was called to the front and ordered to test the strength of the frail bridge, if
bridge it could be called.

"Why, he might as well try to step on a bit of sea-foam," said the Captain in surprise.

Lawrence, Lewis, and Slingsby, having as yet had no experience of such places, expressed, or
held a similar opinion, but the Professor bade them wait and see.

Baptist, throwing off his pack, and fastening a rope round his waist, which his comrades held,
advanced to the extreme edge of the ice, and with his long-handled axe, gently patted the snow
on the opposite side. The surface yielded, and it seemed as if even that small weight would
break the lump off, but the operation consolidated the mass in a few minutes, by reason of
what the Professor termed "regelation."  He then stepped tenderly on it, crossed over, and
drew the rope after him. Antoine followed next, and in a few minutes the whole party was safe
on the other side.

"Dr Lawrence," said Slingsby, in a low grave tone, as they walked along after this, "if we
ever see Chamouni again I shall be surprised."

"Indeed?" returned Lawrence, with a short laugh, "I don't take quite so gloomy a view of our
case.  Don't you think that the free and easy, quiet look of our guide and porters indicates
that such work looks more dangerous than it really is?"

"I don't know that," said the artist, shaking his head, "when men get thoroughly accustomed
to danger they become foolhardy, and don't realise it.  I think it sheer madness to cross such
places."

Lewis, who overheard the conversation, could scarce refrain from a burst of laughter.

"Upon my word, Slingsby," said he, "such observations come strangely from the lips of a man,
who only a day or two ago was caught sketching on a snow-wreath over the edge of a crevasse."

"Ah, but I didn't know it," retorted the other, "and even if I had known it, the ledge of snow
was immensely stronger than that on which we have just stood."

At this point the conversation was interrupted by the guide stopping and saying that it was
now necessary to tie the party together.

They had reached those higher parts of the glacier where snow frequently falls and covers,
to some extent the narrower crevasses, thus, by concealing them, rendering them extremely dangerous
traps.  It therefore became necessary to attach the various members of the party together by
means of a rope, which, passing round their waists, with a few feet between each, enabled them
to rescue any one who should chance to break through.

Thus, in a string, they advanced, and had scarcely proceeded a hundred yards when a surprised
"hallo!" from Captain Wopper arrested them.  He had sunk up to the knees in snow.  A "hallo!"
of alarm instantly succeeded.  He was waist deep.  A stentorian yell followed:

"Ho! hallo! hi!--avast!  Hold on there abaft!  My legs are waublin' in nothin'!"

His great weight had indeed nearly plunged him into a hidden crevasse, over which those who
preceded him had passed in safety.  If the Captain had stood alone that crevasse would certainly
have been his grave, but his friends held him tight, and in a few seconds he was dragged out
of danger.

"Well, well," he said, wiping some large drops of perspiration from his brow, as he stood on
the other side of the chasm, "land-lubbers talk about seafarin' men havin' nothin' but a plank
between them an' death, but to my thinkin' the rottenest plank that ever was launched is absolute
safety compared to `a snow-wreath.'"

"Ah!  Captain," said the Professor, laughing, "you think so just now because you're not used
to it.  In a few weeks you'll hold a different opinion."

"May be so," replied the Captain quietly, "but it don't feel so--heave ahead, my hearties!"

Thus encouraged the party proceeded with caution, the guide sounding the snow at each step
with his long axe-handle as he moved in advance.

Slowly they mounted higher and higher, occasionally meeting with, but always overcoming, difficulties,
until towards evening they reached the little log cabin on the Grands Mulets, not sorry to
find in it a sufficient though humble resting-place for the night.

Here they proceeded to make themselves comfortable.  Some firewood had been carried up by the
porters, with which a fire was kindled, wet garments were hung up to dry, and hot coffee was
prepared, while the sun sank in a gorgeous world of amber and crimson fire.

One by one the stars came out and gradually twinkled into brilliancy, until at last the glorious
host of heaven shone in the deepening sky with an intensity of lustre that cannot be described,
contrasting strangely with the pallid ghostly aspect of the surrounding snow-fields. These
were the only trace of earth that now remained to greet the eyes of our travellers when they
looked forth from the door of the little hut.  Besides being calm and beautiful, the night
was intensely cold. There is this peculiarity, on Alpine mountain tops, that when the sun's
last rays desert them the temperature falls abruptly, there being little or nothing of earth
or rock to conserve the heat poured out during the day.  The mountaineers, therefore, soon
after night closed in, found it necessary to shut the door of their cabin, where they roused
up the fire, quaffed their steaming coffee, and smoked their pipes, in joyful anticipation
of the coming day.

CHAPTER FIFTEEN.

THE GRAND ASCENT CONTINUED AND COMPLETED.

Need we say that the younger of our adventurers--for such they may truly be styled--felt a
tendency to "spin yarns," as Captain Wopper expressed it, till a late hour that night, as they
sat round the fire at the Grands Mulets?

During this enjoyable period, Lawrence and Lewis made themselves better acquainted with Baptist
Le Croix, the chamois-hunter, whose quiet, gentle, and unobtrusive manner was very attractive
to them.  Many an anecdote did he relate of adventures among the Alpine peaks and passes while
pursuing the chamois, or guiding travellers on their way, and it is probable that he might
have roamed in spirit among his beloved haunts--eagerly followed in spirit by the young men--if
he had not been called to order by the guide, who, remembering the hard work that lay before
them on the morrow, suggested repose.  The profound silence that soon reigned in the hut was
broken only by an occasional long-drawn sigh.  Even Captain Wopper was quiet, having been so
powerfully influenced by fresh mountain air and exercise as to have forgotten or foregone his
ordinary and inveterate snore.

There is something peculiarly disagreeable in being awakened, when one is very tired and sleepy,
about two minutes after one has dropped into a profound refreshing slumber; and the annoyance
is severely aggravated when it is caused by the wanton act of one of whom we had expected better
things.

So, in a hazy way, thought Lewis Stoutley when he felt a hand laid on his shoulder, and heard
the voice of Antoine Grennon.

"Monsieur!  Monsieur!" said the guide.

"G-t--long.  D-n borer me," murmured Lewis, in tones so sleepy that the dash of crossness was
barely perceptible.

"It is time to rise, sir," persisted Antoine.

"'Mposs'ble--'v jus' b'n two min'ts sl-e--"

A profound sigh formed an eloquent peroration to the sentence.

A loud laugh from his companions, who were already up and getting ready, did more than the
guide's powers of suasion to arouse the heavy sleeper. He started to a sitting posture, stared
with imbecile surprise at the candle which dimly lighted the cabin, and yawned vociferously.

"What a sleeper you are, Lewie!" said Lawrence, with a laugh, as, on his knees before the fire,
he busied himself in preparing coffee for the party.

"And such a growler, too, when any one touches you," observed Slingsby, buttoning on his leggings.

"Sleeper! growler!" groaned Lewis, "you've only given me five minutes in which to sleep or growl."

"Ah, the happy obliviousness of youth!" said the Professor, assisting one of the porters to
strap up the scientific instruments, "you have been asleep four hours at least.  It is now
past one.  We must start in less than an hour, so bestir yourself--and pray, Dr Lawrence, make
haste with that coffee."

The doctor was by no means slow in his operations, but the difficulties in his way delayed
him.  At such a height, and in such a frozen region, the only mode of procuring water was to
place a panful of snow on the fire; and, no matter how full the pan might be stuffed with it,
this snow, when melted, was reduced to only a very small quantity of water; more snow had,
therefore, to be added and melted, so that much time was spent before the boiling point was
reached.  Patience, however, was at last rewarded with a steaming draught, which, with bread
and ham, did more than fire towards warming their chill bodies.

Outside, the scene was still exquisitely calm and beautiful.  The stars appeared to have gathered
fresh brilliancy and to have increased in number during the night.  Those of them near the
horizon, as the Professor pointed out, twinkled energetically, as if they had just risen, and,
like Lewis, were sleepy, while those in the zenith shone with steady lustre, as if particularly
wide awake to the doings of the presumptuous men who were climbing so much nearer than usual
to their habitation in the sky.  One star in particular gleamed with a sheen that was pre-eminently
glorious--now it was ruby red, now metallic blue, anon emerald green.  Of course, no sunlight
would tinge the horizon for several hours, but the bright moon, which had just risen, rolled
floods of silver over the snowy wastes, rendering unnecessary the lantern which had been provided
to illumine their upward path.

The party, having been tied together with a rope as on the previous day, set forth in line
over the snow, each following the other, and soon they were doing battle with the deep crevasses.
The nature of the ice varied, of course, with the form of the mountain, sometimes presenting
rugged and difficult places, in which, as the Captain put it, they got among breakers and had
to steer with caution, at other times presenting comparatively level plains of snow over which
all was "plain sailing," but the movement was upwards--ever upwards--and, as the day advanced,
felt so prolonged that, at last, as Slingsby said, the climbing motion grew into a confirmed
habit.  Meanwhile the old world sank steadily below them, and, seen from such an elevation
in the pale moonlight, lost much of its familiar look.

Even sounds appeared gradually to die out of that mysterious region, for when they chanced
to pause for a moment to recover breath, or to gaze downward, each appeared unwilling to break
the excessive stillness, and all seemed to listen intently, as it were, to the soundlessness
around-- hearing nought, however, save the beating of their own pulsations.  In such a spot,
if unaccompanied by guide or friend, one might perhaps realise, more than in other parts of
earth, the significance of the phrase, "Alone with God."

As dawn approached, Lewis, who had taken care to have himself placed next to Baptist Le Croix,
renewed his converse in reference to chamois-hunting, and made arrangements to accompany the
hunter on one of his expeditions.

"Is that your sole occupation?" he asked, as the party entered upon a somewhat level snow-field.

"That and assisting travellers," answered Baptist.

"By the way," said Lewis, in a careless tone, "they tell me that gold is to be found in some
parts of these mountains.  Is that true?"

If the youth's back had not been towards the hunter, who walked behind him, he might have seen
that this question was received with a startled look, and that a strange gleam shot from the
man's eyes.  The question was repeated before he answered it.

"Yes," said he, in a low voice, "they say it is to be found--but I have never found it."

"Have you sought much for it?"

"I have sought for it."

The answer was not given promptly, and Lewis found, with some surprise, that the subject appeared
to be distasteful to the hunter.  He therefore dropped it and walked on in silence.

Walking at the time was comparatively easy, for a sharp frost had hardened the surface of the
snow, and the gem-like lights of heaven enabled them to traverse valleys of ice, clamber up
snow-slopes and cross crevasses without danger, except in one or two places, where the natural
snow-bridges were frail and the chasms unusually wide.

At one of these crevasses they were brought to a complete standstill. It was too wide to be
leaped, and no bridge was to be found.  The movements of a glacier cause the continual shifting
of its parts, so that, although rugged or smooth spots are always sure to be found at the same
parts of the glacier each year, there is, nevertheless, annual variety in minute detail.  Hence
the most expert guides are sometimes puzzled as to routes.

The crevasse in question was a new one, and it was Antoine's first ascent of Mont Blanc for
that year, so that he had to explore for a passage just as if he had never been there before.
The party turned to the left and marched along the edge of the chasm some distance, but no
bridge could be found.  The ice became more broken up, smaller crevasses intersected the large
one, and at last a place was reached where the chaos of dislocation rendered further advance
impossible.

"Lost your bearin's, Antoine?" asked Captain Wopper.

"No; I have only got into difficulties," replied the guide, with a quiet smile.

"Just so--breakers ahead.  Well, I suppose you'll 'bout ship an' run along the coast till we
find a channel."

This was precisely what Antoine meant to do, and did, but it was not until more than an hour
had been lost that a safe bridge was found. When they had crossed, the configuration of the
ice forced them to adopt a route which they would willingly have avoided.  A steep incline
of snow rose on their right, on the heights above which loose ice-grags were poised as if on
the point of falling.  Indeed, two or three tracks were passed, down which, probably at no
distant period, some of these avalanches had shot.  It was nervous work passing under them.
Even Antoine looked up at them with a grave, inquiring glance, and hastened his pace as much
as was consistent with comfort and dignity.

Soon after this the sun began to rise, and the upper portions of the snow were irradiated with
pink splendour, but to our travellers he had not yet risen, owing to the intervening peaks
of the Aiguille du Midi. In the brightening light they emerged upon a plain named the Petit
Plateau, which forms a reservoir for the avalanches of the Dome du Goute.  Above them rose
the mountain-crest in three grand masses, divided from each other by rents, which exposed that
peculiar stratified form of the glacier caused by the annual bedding of the snow.  From the
heights, innumerable avalanches had descended, strewing the spot where they stood with huge
blocks of ice and masses of rock.

Threading their way through these impediments was a matter not only of time, but of difficulty,
for in some parts the spaces between the boulders and blocks were hollow, and covered with
thin crusts of snow, which gave way the instant a foot was set on them, plunging up to their
waists the unfortunates who trod there, with a shock which usually called forth shouts of astonishment
not unmingled with consternation.

"Here, then, we draw near to the grand summit," said the Professor, pointing to the snow-cliffs
on the right, "whence originates the ice-fountain that supplies such mighty ice-rivers as the
Glacier des Bossons and the Mer de Glace."

"Oui, Monsieur," replied Antoine, smiling, "we draw near, but we are not yet near."

"We are nearer to the summit however, than we are to the plain," retorted the Professor.

"Truly, yes," assented the guide.

"I should think no one could doubt that," observed Slingsby, looking upwards.

"It looks quite near now," said Lewis.

"Not so near, however, as you think, and as you shall find," rejoined the guide, as they resumed
their upward march.

This was indeed true.  Nothing is more deceptive to an inexperienced eye than the apparent
distance of a high mountain-top.  When you imagine that the plain below is miles and miles
away, and the peak above close at hand, you find, perhaps, on consulting your watch, that the
plain cannot be very far distant, and that the greater part of your work still lies before
you.  It requires no small amount of resolution to bear up against the depression of spirit
caused by frequent mistakes in this matter.

Owing to the increasing height and power of the sun, the snow beyond the Petit Plateau soon
became soft, and the steepness of the ascent increasing, their advance became slower, and their
work much more laborious.  A pleasant break was, however, at hand, for, on reaching the Grand
Plateau, they were cheered by the sun's rays beaming directly on them, and by the information
that they had at length reached their breakfast-point.

It may not be a very romantic, but it is an interesting fact, that the joys connected with
intellectual and material food are intimately blended.  Man, without intellectual food, becomes
a "lower animal." What intellectual man is without material food, even for part of a day, let
those testify who have had the misfortune to go on a pic-nic, and discover that an essential
element of diet had been forgotten.  It is not merely that food is necessary to maintain our
strength; were that so, a five minutes' pause, or ten at the outside, would suffice, in Captain
Wopper's phraseology, to take in cargo, or coal the human engine; but we "rejoice in food,"
and we believe that none enjoy it so much as those whose intellectual appetite is strong. 
If any doubters of these truths had witnessed the Professor and his friends at breakfast that
morning on the Grand Plateau, they must have infallibly been convinced.

"What a gourmand he is!" whispered Lewis to the Captain, in reference to the man of science,
"and such a genial outflow of wit to correspond with his amazing indraught of wittles."

The Captain's teeth were at the moment fixed with almost tigerish ferocity in a chicken drumstick,
but the humour and the amazing novelty--to say nothing of the truth--of Lewis's remark made
him remove the drumstick, and give vent to a roar of laughter that shook the very summit of
Mont Blanc--at all events the Professor said it did, and he was a man who weighed his words
and considered well his sentiments.

"Do not imagine that I exaggerate," he said, as distinctly as was compatible with a very large
mouthful of ham and bread, "sound is a motion of vibration, not of translation.  That delightfully
sonorous laugh emitted by Captain Wopper (pass the wine, Slingsby--thanks) was an impulse or
push delivered by his organs of respiration to the particles of air in immediate contact with
his magnificent beard.  The impulse thus given to the air was re-delivered or passed on, not
as I pass the mutton to Dr Lawrence (whose plate is almost empty), but by each particle of
air passing the impulse to its neighbour; thus creating an aerial wave, or multitude of waves,
which rolled away into space.  Those of the waves which rolled in the direction of Mont Blanc
communicated their vibrations to the more solid atoms of the mountain, these passed the motion
on to each other, of course with slight--inconceivably slight--but actual force, and thus the
tremor passed entirely through the mountain, out on the other side, greatly diminished in power
no doubt, and right on throughout space.--Hand me the bread, Lewis, and don't sit grinning
there like a Cheshire cat with tic-douloureux in its tail."

At this Slingsby laughed and shook the mountain again, besides overturning a bottle of water,
and upsetting the gravity of Antoine Grennon, who chanced to be looking at him; for the artist's
mouth, being large, and also queerly shaped, appeared to the guide somewhat ludicrous.  Sympathy,
like waves of sound, is easily transmitted.  Thus, on the Captain making to Antoine the very
simple remark that the "mootong was mannyfeek," there was a general roar that ought to have
brought Mont Blanc down about their ears.  But it didn't--it only shook him.  Laughter and
sympathy combined improve digestion and strengthen appetite.  Thus the Professor's brilliant
coruscations, and the appreciative condition of his audience, created an enjoyment of that
morning's meal which was remembered with pleasure long after the event, and induced an excessive
consumption of food, which called forth the remonstrances of the guide, who had to remind his
uproarious flock that a portion must be reserved for the descent.  To the propriety of this
Lewis not only assented, but said that he meant to continue the ascent, and rose for that purpose,
whereupon the Doctor said that he dissented entirely from the notion that bad puns increased
the hilarity of a party, and the Captain, giving an impulse to the atmosphere with his respiratory
organs, produced the sound "Avast!" and advised them to clap a stopper in their potato-traps.

Even at these sallies they all laughed--proving, among other things, that mountain air and
exercise, combined with intellectual and physical food, are conducive to easy-going good humour.

It is not impossible that the tremors to which Mont Blanc had been subjected that morning had
put him a little out of humour, for our mountaineers had scarcely recommenced their upward
toil when he shrouded his summit in a few fleecy clouds.  The guide shook his head at this.

"I fear the weather won't hold," he said.

"Won't hold!" exclaimed the Captain, "why, it's holdin' now as hard as it can grip."

"True," observed the Professor; "but weather in these regions is apt to change its mood rather
suddenly."

"Yet there seems to me no sign of an unfavourable change," said Lawrence, looking up at the
blue and almost cloudless sky.

"Fleecy clouds are fleeting at times," returned the Professor, pointing to the summit which
again showed its cap of clear dazzling white, "but at other times they are indicative of conditions
that tend to storm. However, we must push on and hope for the best."

They did push on accordingly, and all, except the guide, had no difficulty in "hoping."  As
they passed over the Plateau the sun poured floods of light on the snow, from the little crystals
of which it shone with prismatic colours, as though the place had been strewn with diamonds.
The spirit of levity was put to flight by this splendid spectacle, and the feelings of the
travellers were deepened to solemnity when the guide pointed to a yawning crevasse into which,
he said, three guides were hurled by an avalanche in the year 1820.  He also related how, on
one occasion, a party of eleven tourists perished, not far from where they then stood, during
a terrible storm, and how an English lady and her guide were, at another time, lost in a neighbouring
crevasse.

By this time all except the chief among the surrounding heights were beginning to look insignificant
by comparison, and the country assumed a sort of rugged flatness in consequence of being looked
down upon from such an elevation.  Passing the Grand Plateau they reached a steep incline,
which rose towards a tremendous ice-precipice.  From the upper edge of this there hung gigantic
icicles.  Up the incline they went slowly, for the crust of the snow broke down at every step,
and the Captain, being heavy, began to show symptoms of excessive heat and labouring breath,
but he grew comparatively cool on coming to a snow-bridge which had to be passed in order to
get over a crevasse.

"It'll never bear my weight," he said, looking doubtfully at the frail bridge, and at the blue
gulf, which appeared to be a bottomless pit.

Antoine, however, thought it might prove strong enough.  He patted the snow gently, as on previous
occasions of a similar kind, and advanced with caution, while his followers fixed their heels
in the snow, and held tight to the rope to save him if he should break through.  He passed
in safety, and the others followed, but new difficulties awaited them on the other side.  Just
beyond this bridge they came to a slope from which the snow had been completely swept, leaving
the surface of hard ice exposed.  It was so steep that walking on it was impossible. Antoine,
therefore, proceeded to cut steps along its face.  Two swings of his ponderous mountain-axe
were sufficient to cut each step in the brittle ice, and in a few minutes the whole party were
on the slope, every man having a coil of the rope round his waist, while, with the spike of
his alpenstock driven firmly into the ice, he steadied himself before taking each successive step.

There would have been no difficulty in crossing such a slope if its base had terminated in
snow, but as it went straight down to the brow of an ice-precipice, and then abruptly terminated
in a cornice, from which the giant icicles, before mentioned, hung down into an unfathomable
abyss, each man knew that a false step, a slip, or the loss of balance, might result in the
instant destruction of the whole party.  They moved therefore very slowly, keeping their eyes
steadily fixed on their feet.

The mercurial temperament of Mr Slingsby was severely tried at this point.  His desire to look
up and revel in the beauties of nature around him proved too strong a temptation.  While gazing
with feelings of awe at the terrible edge or cornice below he became, for the first time, fully
alive to his situation,--the smallness of the step of ice on which he stood, the exceeding
steepness of the glassy slope below, the dread abyss beyond!  He shut his eyes; a giddy feeling
came over him--a rush of horror.

"Take care, Monsieur!" was uttered in a quick, deep tone, behind him.

It was the warning voice of Le Croix, who observed his condition.

The warning came too late.  Slingsby wavered, threw up his arms, slipped, and fell with an
appalling shriek.

Le Croix, however, was prepared.  In an instant he had fixed his staff and heels firmly, and
had leaned well back to resist the pull.  The porter in front was not less prompt; the stout
rope stood the strain; and in another moment the artist was restored to his position, panting,
pale, and humbled.

A few minutes sufficed to restore his confidence sufficiently to admit of his proceeding, and,
with many warnings to be more cautious, the advance was continued.

Up to this point the weather had favoured them, but now Mont Blanc seemed as if inclined to
resent the free and easy way in which these men of mingled muscle and science had attacked
his crown.  He drew several ominous clouds around him, and shook out a flood of hoary locks
from his white head, which, caught up by a blast, created apparently for the purpose, were
whirled aloft in wild confusion, and swooped down upon the mountaineers with bitter emphasis,
in the form of snow-drift, as if they had come direct from Captain Wopper's favourite place
of reference,-- Nova Zembla.  Coats, which had hitherto been carried on the arm or thrown open,
were put on and buttoned, and heads were bent to meet the blast and repel the snow-drift. 
Little was said, save a murmured doubt by Antoine as to the possibility of gaining the summit,
even although they were now so near it, for the day was far spent by that time, and the rugged
nature of the route over they had passed, precluded the possibility of a rapid return to the
hut at the Grands Mulets.  They pushed steadily on, however, for the Professor was anxious
to bury his thermometer in the snow at the top; the guide was anxious to maintain his credit
for perseverance; and the others were anxious to be able to say they had reached the highest
height in Europe.

In any weather the ascent of Mont Blanc requires somewhat more than the average share of physical
vigour and perseverance; in bad weather it demands unusual strength and resolution.  When,
therefore, a severe storm of wind arose, most of the party began to show symptoms of distress.
The labour of ascending, being coupled with that of forcing way against the blast, was very
exhausting to the muscles, while the extreme cold reduced the physical energy and cooled the
most sanguine spirit.  Antoine alone seemed to be proof against all influences, but the responsibility
lying on him clouded his usually open countenance with a careworn expression.  Prudence counselled
immediate return. Ambition, as they were now so near the top, urged prolonged effort.  The
guide expressed his anxieties, but meeting with no response, followed the dictates of his feelings,
and pushed on.

Like pillars of living snow they toiled patiently upwards.  Breath became too precious to waste
in words.  They advanced in silence.  The wind howled around them, and the snow circled in
mad evolutions, as if the demon of wintry storms dwelt there, and meant to defend his citadel
to the "bitter end."  There are two rocks near the summit, which crop through the ice like
rugged jewels in the monarch's diadem.  The lower is named the Petits Mulets, the upper the
Derniers Roches.  On reaching the latter of these they paused a few moments to rest.  A feeling
of certainty that the end would be gained now began to prevail, but the guide was a little
alarmed, and the Professor horrified, on looking at their companions' faces, to observe that
they were pinched, haggard, and old-looking, as if they all had aged somewhat during the last
few hours! Captain Wopper's rubicund visage was pale, and his nose blue; the face of Lewis
was white all over, and drawn, as if he were suffering pain; Dr Lawrence's countenance was
yellow, and Slingsby's was green.  The Professor himself was as bad as his comrades, and the
porters were no better.

"We shan't be beaten now," said the man of science, with a ghastly smile.

"Go 'head! nev'r s'die s'l'ng's th'r's shot 'n th' locker!" replied the Captain, in the tone
of a man who would rather avoid speaking, if possible.

"What a face you've got, Stoutley!" said the artist.

"You're another!" replied Lewis, with a horrible grin.

"Allons!" exclaimed the guide, bending once more against the storm.

Once, for a few minutes, the wind ceased and the clouds lifted.  Captain Wopper uttered a cheer,
and rushed forward in advance of the guide, took off his hat and threw it into the air.  They
had reached the round summit without being aware of it.  They stood 15,781 feet above the sea-level!
No envious peak rose above their heads.  The whole world lay below them, bathed, too, in bright
sunshine, for the storm, which had so suddenly swooped upon them, was confined, like an elemental
body-guard, to the head of the mountain-king.  But, clear though it was at the moment, they
were too high in the air to see anything quite distinctly, yet this hazy aspect had a charm
of its own, for it increased the feeling and idea of vastness in connection with surrounding
space. Around, and now beneath, stood the mountain nobility of the land, looking, however,
somewhat reduced in size and majesty, as seen from the royal presence.

Scarcely had the mountaineers assembled and glanced at the wondrous panorama, when the envious
clouds swooped down again and mingled with the snow-drift which once more rose to meet them.

"We must be quick, Monsieur," said Antoine, taking a shovel from one of the porters, while
Le Croix grasped another.  "Where shall we dig?"

The Professor fixed on a spot, and, while the grave of the thermometer was being dug, a plaid
was set up on a couple of alpenstocks, in the shelter of which the others consumed the bread
and wine that had been saved from breakfast.  It did them little good, however; the cold was
too intense.  The Captain's beard was already fringed with icicles, and the whiskers of those
who had them were covered with hoar-frost, while the breath issued from their mouths like steam.
Before the thermometer was buried all had risen, and were endeavouring to recover heat by rubbing
their hands, beating their arms across their breasts, and stamping violently.

"Come," said the Professor, quickly, when the work was done, "we must start at once."

"Oui, Monsieur," assented the guide, and, without more words, the whole party began to descend
the mountain at a run.

There was cause for haste.  Not only did the storm increase in violence, but evening drew on
apace, and all of them were more or less exhausted by prolonged muscular exertion and exposure
to severe cold.

Suddenly, having gone a considerable way down the mountain, they emerged from fog and snow-drift
into blazing sunshine!  The strife of elements was confined entirely to the summit.  The inferior
ice-slopes and the valleys far below were bathed in the golden glories of a magnificent sunset
and, before they reached the huts at the Grands Mulets, they had passed from a condition of
excessive cold to one of extreme heat, insomuch that the Captain and Professor were compelled
to walk with their coats slung over their shoulders, while perspiration streamed from their
bare brows.

That night the party slept again at the Grands Mulets, and next day they reached Chamouni,
fagged, no doubt, and bearing marks of mountaineering in the shape of sun-burnt cheeks and
peeled noses, but hearty, nevertheless, and not a little elated with their success in having
scaled the mighty sides and the hoary summit of Mont Blanc.

CHAPTER SIXTEEN.

TELLS HOW LEWIS DISTINGUISHED HIMSELF.

Seated one morning on an easy chair in Susan Quick's apartment and swinging his little blue
legs to and fro in a careless, negligent manner, Gillie White announced it as his opinion that
Mister Lewis had gone, or was fast going, mad.

"Why do you think so?" asked Susan, with a smile, looking up for a moment from some portion
of Lewis's nether integuments, which Mont Blanc had riven almost to shreds.

"W'y do I think so?" repeated Gillie; "w'y, cos he's not content with havin' busted his boots
an' his clo'se, an' all but busted hisself, in goin' to the top o' Mont Blang an' Monty Rosa,
an' all the other Monty-thingumbobs about but he's agoin' off to day with that queer fish Laycrwa
to hunt some where up above the clouds--in among the stars, I fancy--for shamwas."

"Indeed!" said Susan, with a neat little laugh.

"Yes, indeed.  He's mountain-mad--mad as a Swiss March hare, if not madder--By the way, Susan,
wot d'ee think o' the French?"

Gillie propounded this question with the air of a philosopher.

"D'you mean French people?"

"No; I means the French lingo, as my friend Cappen Wopper calls it."

"Well, I can't say that I have thought much about it yet.  Missis keeps me so busy that I haven't
time."

"Ah!" said Gillie, "you're wastin' of precious opportoonities, Susan. I've bin a-studdyin'
of that lingo myself, now, for three weeks--off and on."

"Indeed!" exclaimed Susan, with an amused glance, "and what do you think of it?"

"Think of it!  I think it's the most outrageous stuff as ever was.  The man who first inwented
it must 'ave 'ad p'ralersis o' the brain, besides a bad cold in 'is 'ead, for most o' the enns
an' gees come tumblin' through the nose, but only git half out after all, as if the speaker
was afraid to let 'em go, lest he shouldn't git hold of 'em again.  There's that there mountain,
now.  They can't call it Mont Blang, with a good strong out-an'-out bang, like a Briton would
do, but they catches hold o' the gee when it's got about as far as the bridge o' the nose,
half throttles it and shoves it right back, so that you can scarce hear it at all.  An' the
best joke is, there ain't no gee in the word at all!"

"No?" said Susan, in surprise.

"No," repeated Gillie.  "I've bin studdyin' the spellin' o' the words in shop-winders an' posters,
an', would you b'lieve it, they end the word Blang with a c."

"You don't say so!"

"Yes I do; an' how d'ee think they spell the name o' that feller Laycrwa?"

"I'm sure I don't know," answered Susan.

"They spells it," returned Gillie, with a solemn look, "L-e-c-r-o-i-x. Now, if I had spelt
it that way, I'd have pronounced it Laycroiks. Wouldn't you?"

"Well, yes, I think I should," said Susan.

"It seems to me," continued Gillie, "that they goes on the plan of spellin' one way an' purnouncin'
another--always takin' care to choose the most difficult way, an' the most unnatt'ral, so that
a feller has no chance to come near it except by corkin' up one nostril tight, an' borin' a
small extra hole in the other about half-way up.  If you was to mix a sneeze with what you
said, an' paid little or no attention to the sense, p'raps it would be French--but I ain't
sure.  I only wish you heard Cappen Wopper hoistin' French out of hisself as if he was a wessel
short-handed, an' every word was a heavy bale.  He's werry shy about it, is the Cappen, an'
wouldn't for the world say a word if he thought any one was near; but when he thinks he's alone
with Antoine--that's our guide, you know--he sometimes lets fly a broadside o' French that
well-nigh takes my breath away."

The urchin broke into a laugh here at the memory of the Captain's efforts to master what he
styled a furrin' tongue, but Susan checked him by saying slily, "How could you know, Gillie,
if the Captain was alone with Antoine?"

"Oh, don't you know," replied Gillie, trying to recover his gravity, "the Cappen he's wery
fond o' me, and I like to gratify his feelin's by keepin' near him.  Sometimes I keep so near--under
the shadow of his huge calf d'ee see--that he don't observe me on lookin' round; an', thinkin'
he's all alone, lets fly his French broadsides in a way that a'most sends Antoine on his beam-ends.
But Antoine is tough, he is.  He gin'rally says, `I not un'r'stan' English ver' well,' shakes
his head an' grins, but the Cappen never listens to his answers, bein' too busy loadin' and
primin' for another broadside."

The man to whom he referred cut short the conversation at this point by shouting down the stair:--

"Hallo!  Gillie, you powder-monkey, where are my shoes?"

"Here they are, Cappen, all ready; fit to do dooty as a lookin'-glass to shave yerself," cried
the "powder-monkey," leaping up and leaving the room abruptly.

Gillie's opinion in regard to the madness of Lewis was shared by several of his friends above
stairs.  Doctor Lawrence, especially, felt much anxiety about him, having overheard one or
two conversations held by the guides on the subject of the young Englishman's recklessness.

"Really, Lewis," said the Doctor, on one occasion, "you must listen to a lecture from me, because
you are in a measure under my charge."

"I'm all attention, sir," said Lewis meekly, as he sat down on the edge of his bed and folded
his hands in his lap.

"Well then, to begin," said the Doctor, with a half-serious smile, "I won't trouble you with
my own opinion, to which you attach no weight--"

"Pardon me, Lawrence, I attach great weight to it--or, rather, it has so much weight that I
can scarcely bear it."

"Just so, and therefore you shan't have it.  But you must admit that the opinion of a good
guide is worth something.  Now, I heard Antoine Grennon the other day laying down some unquestionable
principles to the Professor--"

"What! lecturing the Professor?" interrupted Lewis, "how very presumptuous."

"He said," continued the Doctor, "that the dangers connected with the ascent of these Swiss
mountains are real, and, unless properly provided against, may become terrible, if not fatal.
He instanced your own tendency to go roving about among the glaciers alone.  With a comrade
or a guide attached to you by a rope there is no danger worth speaking of, but it must be as
clear to you as it is to me that it when out on the mountains alone, you step on a snow-covered
crevasse and break through, your instant death is inevitable."

"Yes, but," objected Lewis, with that unwillingness to be convinced which is one of the chief
characteristics of youth, "I always walk, when alone on the glaciers, with the utmost caution,
sounding the snow in front of me with the long handle of my axe at every step as I go."

"If the guides do not find this always a sufficient protection for themselves, by what amazing
power of self-sufficiency do you persuade yourself that it is sufficient for you?" demanded
Lawrence.

"Your question suffices, Doctor," said Lewis, laughing; "go on with your lecture, I'm all attention
and, and humility."

"Not my lecture," retorted Lawrence, "the guide's.  He was very strong, I assure you, on the
subject of men going on the high glaciers without a rope, or, which comes to the same thing,
alone, and he was not less severe on those who are so foolhardy, or so ignorant, as to cross
steep slopes of ice on new-fallen snow.  Nothing is easier, the new snow affording such good
foothold, as you told us the other day when describing your adventures under the cliffs of
Monte Rosa, and yet nothing is more dangerous, says Antoine, for if the snow were to slip,
as it is very apt to do, you would be smothered in it, or swept into a crevasse by it.  Lives
are lost in the Alps every year, I am told, owing to indifference to these two points.  The
guides say--and their opinions are corroborated by men of science and Alpine experience--that
it is dangerous to meddle with any slope exceeding 30 degrees for several days after a heavy
fall, and yet it is certain that slopes exceeding this angle are traversed annually by travellers
who are ignorant, or reckless, or both.  Did you not say that the slope which you crossed the
other day was a steeper angle than this, and the snow on it not more than twenty-four hours' old?"

"Guilty!" exclaimed Lewis, with a sigh.

"I condemn you, then," said Lawrence, with a smile, "to a continuation of this lecture, and,
be assured, the punishment is much lighter than you deserve.  Listen:--There are three unavoidable
dangers in Alpine climbing--"

"Please don't be long on each head," pleaded Lewis, throwing himself back in his bed, while
his friend placed the point of each finger of his right hand on a corresponding point of the
left, and crossed his legs.

"I won't.  I shall be brief--brief as your life is likely to be if you don't attend to me.
The three dangers are, as I have said, unavoidable; but two of them may be guarded against;
the other cannot.  First, there is danger from falling rocks.  This danger may be styled positive.
It hangs over the head like the sword of Damocles.  There is no avoiding it except by not climbing
at all, for boulders and ice-blocks are perched here, and there, and everywhere, and no one
can tell the moment when they shall fall.  Secondly, there is danger from crevasses--the danger
of tumbling into one when crossing a bridge of snow, and the danger of breaking through a crust
of snow which conceals one.  This may be called a negative danger.  It is reduced to almost
nothing if you are tied to your comrade by a rope, and if the leader sounds with his staff
as he walks along; but it changes from a negative to a positive danger to the man who is so
mad as to go out alone.  Thirdly, there is danger from new snow on steep slopes, which is positive
if you step on it when recently fallen, and when the slope is very steep; but is negative when
you allow sufficient time for it to harden.  While, however, it is certain that many deaths
occur from these three dangers being neglected, it is equally true that the largest number
of accidents which occur in the Alps arise chiefly from momentary indiscretions, from false
steps, the result of carelessness or self-confidence, and from men attempting to do what is
beyond their powers.  Men who are too old for such fatigue, and men who, though young, are
not sufficiently strong, usually come to grief.  I close my lecture with a quotation from the
writings of a celebrated mountaineer--`In all cases the man rather than the mountain is at fault.'"

"There is truth in what you say," observed Lewis, rising, with a yawn.

"Nay, but," returned his friend, seriously, "your mother, who is made very anxious by your
reckless expeditions, begged me to impress these truths on you.  Will you promise me, like
a good fellow, to consider them?"

"I promise," said Lewis, becoming serious in his turn, and taking his friend's hand; "but you
must not expect sudden perfection to be exemplified in me.--Come, let's go have a talk with
Le Croix about his projected expedition after the chamois."

Up in the mountains now,--above some of the clouds undoubtedly, almost 'mong the stars, as
Gillie put it,--Lewis wanders in company with Baptist Le Croix, half-forgetful of his promise
to Lawrence.  Below them lies a world of hills and valleys; above towers a fairy-land of ice,
cliff, and cloud.  No human habitation is near.  The only indications of man's existence are
so faint, and so far off in the plains below, that houses are barely visible, and villages
look like toys.  A sea of cloud floats beneath them, and it is only through gaps in this sea
that the terrestrial world is seen.  Piercing through it are the more prominent of the Alpine
peaks--the dark tremendous obelisk of the Matterhorn towering in one direction, the not less
tremendous and far grander head of Mont Blanc looming in another.  The sun shines brightly
over all, piercing and rendering semi-transparent some of the clouds, gilding the edges and
deepening the shadows of others.

"Do you see anything, Le Croix?" asked Lewis, as he reclined on a narrow ledge of rock recovering
breath after a fatiguing climb, while his comrade peered intently through a telescope into
the recesses of a dark mountain gorge that lay a little below them.

For some moments the hunter made no reply.  Presently he closed the glass, and, with an air
of satisfaction, said, "Chamois!"

"Where?" asked Lewis, rising eagerly and taking the glass.

Le Croix carefully pointed out the spot but no effort on the part of the inexperienced youth
could bring anything resembling the light and graceful form of a chamois into the field of vision.

"Never mind, Le Croix," he said, quickly returning the glass and picking up his rifle; "come
along, let's have at them."

"Softly," returned the hunter; "we must get well to leeward of them before we can venture to
approach."

"Lead where you will; you'll find me a quiet and unquestioning follower."

The hunter at once turned, and, descending the mountain by a precipice which was so steep that
they had in some places to drop from ledge to ledge, at last gained a position where the light
air, that floated but scarce moved the clouds, came direct from the spot where the chamois
lay.  He then turned and made straight towards them.  As they advanced the ground became more
rugged and precipitous, so that their progress was unavoidably slow, and rendered more so by
the necessity that lay on them of approaching their game without noise.

When they had reached a spot where a sheer precipice appeared to render further progress impossible,
the hunter stopped and said in a low tone, "Look, they are too far off; a bullet could not
reach them."

Lewis craned his neck over the cliff, and saw the chamois grazing quietly on a small patch
of green that lay among brown rocks below.

"What's to be done?" he asked anxiously.  "Couldn't we try a long shot?"

"Useless.  Your eyes are inexperienced.  The distance is greater than you think."

"What, then, shall we do?"

Le Croix did not answer.  He appeared to be revolving some plan in his mind.  Turning at last
to his companion, he said--

"I counsel that you remain here.  It is a place near to which they must pass if driven by some
one from below.  I will descend."

"But how descend?" asked Lewis.  "I see no path by which even a goat could get down."

"Leave that to me," replied the hunter.  "Keep perfectly still till you see them within range.
Have your rifle ready; do not fire in haste; there will be time for a slow and sure aim.  Most
bad hunters owe their ill-luck to haste."

With this advice Le Croix crept quietly round a projecting rock, and, dropping apparently over
the precipice, disappeared.

Solitude is suggestive.  As long as his companion was with him, Lewis felt careless and easy
in mind, but now that he was left alone in one of the wildest and grandest scenes he had yet
beheld, he became solemnised, and could not help feeling, that without his guide he would be
very helpless in such a place.  Being alone in the mountains was not indeed new to him.  As
we have already said, he had acquired the character of being much too reckless in wandering
about by himself; but there was a vast difference between going alone over ground which he
had traversed several times with guides in the immediate neighbourhood of Chamouni, and being
left in a region to which he had been conducted by paths so intricate, tortuous, and difficult,
that the mere effort to trace back in memory even the last few miles of the route confused him.

There was a mysterious stillness, too, about everything around him; and the fogs, which floated
in heavy masses above and below, gave a character of changeful wildness to the scenery.

"What a place to get lost in and benighted!" he thought.  Then his mind, with that curious
capacity for sudden flight, which is one of the chief characteristics of thought, leaped down
the precipices, up which he had toiled so slowly, sped away over hill and dale, and landed
him in Chamouni at the feet of Nita Horetzki.  Once there, he had no desire to move.  He kept
looking steadily in her pretty face, speculated as to the nature of the charm that rendered
it so sweet, wondered what was the cause of the lines of care that at times rippled her smooth
white brow, longed to become the sharer of her grief, and her comforter, and pondered the improbability
of his ever being in a position to call her Nita--darling Nita--sweetest Nita--exquisite Nita!
He was still engaged in creating adjectives at Chamouni when he was brought suddenly back to
the Alpine heights by the sound of a shot.  It was repeated in a hundred echoes by the surrounding
cliffs, as he seized his rifle and gazed over the precipice.

A puff of smoke, hanging like a cloudlet, guided his eyes.  Not far in front of it he saw the
fawn-like form of a chamois stretched in death upon the ground, while two others were seen
bounding with amazing precision and elasticity over the rocks towards him.

He turned at once to an opening among the rocks at his right, for, even to his unpractised
eye, it was obviously impossible that anything without wings could approach him in front or
at his left.

Coolness and promptitude were characteristics of the youth; so that he sat crouching with the
rifle, resting in the palm of his left hand, over one knee, as motionless as if he had been
chiselled from the rock against which he leaned; but his natural coolness of deportment could
not prevent, though it concealed, a throbbing of anxiety lest the game should pass out of reach,
or behind rocks, which would prevent his seeing it.  For an instant he half-rose, intending
to rush to some more commanding elevation, but remembering the parting advice of Le Croix,
he sank down again and remained steady.

Scarcely had he done so when the clatter of bounding hoofs was heard. He knew well that the
open space, across which he now felt sure the chamois must pass, was only broad enough to afford
the briefest possible time for an aim.  He raised the rifle more than half-way to the shoulder.
Another instant and a chamois appeared like an arrow shooting athwart the hill-side before
him.  He fired, and missed!  The bullet, however, which had been destined for the heart of
the first animal, was caught in the brain of that which followed.  It sprang high into the
air, and, rolling over several times, lay stretched at full length on the rocks.

We need not pause to describe the rejoicing of the young sportsman over his first chamois,
or to detail Lecroix's complimentary observations thereon.

Having deposited their game in a place of safety, the hunter suggested that, as there was no
chance of their seeing any more in that locality, it would be well to devote the remainder
of the day to exploring the higher slopes of a neighbouring glacier, for, familiar as he was
with all the grander features of the region, there were some of the minuter details, he said,
with which he was unacquainted.

Lewis was a little surprised at the proposal, but, being quite satisfied with his success,
and not unwilling to join in anything that smacked of exploration, he readily assented; and,
ere long, the two aspiring spirits were high above the spot where the chamois had fallen, and
struggling with the difficulties of couloir and crevasse.

Before quitting the lower ground, they had deposited their game and rifles in a cave well known
to Le Croix, in which they intended to pass the night, and they now advanced armed only with
their long-handled Alpine hatchets, without which implements it is impossible to travel over
glaciers.

Being both of them strong in wind and limb, they did not pause often to rest, though Lewis
occasionally called a momentary halt to enjoy the magnificent prospect.  During one of these
pauses a dark object was seen moving over the ice far below them.

Le Croix pointed to it, and said that it approached them.

"What is it--a crow?" asked Lewis.

"More like a man; but it is neither," returned the hunter, adjusting his telescope; "yes, it
is, as I fancied, a chamois."

"Then it cannot have seen us," said Lewis, "else it would not approach."

"Nay, it approaches because it has seen us.  It mistakes us for relatives.  Let us sit down
to deceive it a little."

They crouched beside a piece of ice, and the chamois advanced, until its pretty form became
recognisable by the naked eye.  Its motions, however, were irregular.  It was evidently timid.
Sometimes it came on at full gallop, then paused to look, and uttered a loud piping sound,
advancing a few paces with caution, and pausing to gaze again.  Le Croix replied with an imitative
whistle to its call.  It immediately bounded forward with pleasure, but soon again hesitated,
and stopped.  At last it seemed to become aware of its mistake, for, turning at a tangent,
it scoured away over the ice like wind swooping down from the mountain-summits, bounded over
the crevasses like an india-rubber ball, and was quickly out of sight.

While gazing with profound interest at this graceful creature, the explorers were not at first
aware that a dark mass of inky cloud was rapidly bearing down on them, and that one of those
wild storms which sweep frequently over the high Alps seemed to be gathering.

"We must make haste, if we would gain the shelter of our cave," said Le Croix, rising.

As he spoke, a low rumbling sound was heard behind them.  They turned just in time to see a
small avalanche of rocks hopping down the cliffs towards them.  It was so far off, and looked
such an innocent rolling of pebbles, that Lewis regarded it as an insignificant phenomenon.
His companion formed a better estimate of its character, but being at least five hundred yards
to one side of the couloir or snow-slope, down which it rushed, he judged that they were safe.
He was mistaken.  Some of the largest stones flew past quite near them, several striking the
glacier as they passed, and sending clouds of ice-dust over them, and one, as large as a hogshead,
bounding, with awful force, straight over their heads.

They turned instantly to hasten from so dangerous a spot, but were arrested by another and
much louder rumbling sound.

"Quick, fly, Monsieur!" exclaimed Le Croix, setting his young companion the example.

Truly there was cause for haste.  A sub-glacial lake among the heights above had burst its
icy barriers, and, down the same couloir from which the smaller avalanche had sprung, a very
ocean of boulders, mud, ice, and debris came crashing and roaring with a noise like the loudest
thunder, with this difference, that there was no intermission of the roar for full quarter
of an hour; only, at frequent intervals, a series of pre-eminent peals were heard, when boulders,
from six to ten feet in diameter, met with obstacles, and dashed them aside, or broke themselves
into atoms.

Our hunters fled for their lives, and barely gained the shelter of a giant boulder, when the
skirts of the hideous torrent roared past leaped over an ice-cliff, and was swallowed up by
the insatiable crevasses of the glacier below.  For several minutes after they had reached,
and stood panting in, a position of safety, they listened to the thunderous roar of Alpine
artillery, until it died slowly away--as if unwillingly-- in the light pattering of pebbles.

Gratitude to the Almighty for deliverance from a great danger was the strongest feeling in
the heart of the chamois-hunter.  Profound astonishment and joy at having witnessed such an
amazing sight, quickened the pulse of Lewis.

"That was a narrow escape, Le Croix?"

"It was.  I never see such a sight without a shudder, because I lost a brother in such an avalanche.
It was on the slopes of the Jungfrau.  He was literally broken to fragments by it."

Lewis expressed sympathy, and his feelings were somewhat solemnised by the graphic recital
of the details of the sad incident with which the hunter entertained him, as they descended
the mountain rapidly.

In order to escape an impending storm, which was evidently brewing in the clouds above, Lewis
suggested that they should diverge from the route by which they had ascended, and attempt a
short cut by a steeper part of the mountains.

Le Croix looked round and pondered.  "I don't like diverging into unknown parts when in a hurry,
and with the day far spent," he said. "One never knows when a sheer precipice will shut up
the way in places like this."

The youth, however, was confident, and the man of experience was too amiable and yielding.
There was also urgent reason for haste.  It was therefore decided that the steeper slopes should
be attempted.

They began with a glissade.  A very steep snow-slope happened to be close at hand.  It stretched
uninterruptedly down several hundred feet to one of the terraces, into which the precipitous
mountainside at that place was cut.

"Will you try?" asked Le Croix, looking doubtfully at his companion.

"Of course I will," replied Lewis, shortly.  "Where you choose to go I will follow."

"Have you ever done such work before?"

"Yes, often, though never on quite so steep or long a slope."

Le Croix was apparently satisfied.  He sat down on the summit of the slope, fixed the spiked
end of his axe in the snow, resting heavily on the handle, in order to check his descent, and
hitched himself forward.

"Keep steady and don't roll over," he cried, as he shot away.  The snow rose and trailed like
a white tail behind him.  His speed increased almost to that of an avalanche, and in a few
seconds he was at the bottom.

Lewis seated himself in precisely the same manner, but overbalanced himself when halfway down,
swung round, lost self-command, let slip his axe, and finally went head over heels, with legs
and arms flying wildly.

Le Croix, half-expecting something of the kind, was prepared.  He had re-ascended the slope
a short way, and received the human avalanche on his right shoulder, was knocked down violently
as a matter of course, and the two went spinning in a heap together to the bottom.

"Not hurt, I hope?" cried Lewis, jumping up and looking at his comrade with some anxiety.

"No, Monsieur," replied Le Croix, quietly, as he shook the snow from his garments--"And you?"

"Oh!  I'm all right.  That was a splendid beginning.  We shall get down to our cave in no time
at this rate."

The hunter shook his head.  "It is not all glissading," he said, as they continued the descent
by clambering down the face of a precipice.

Some thousands of feet below them lay the tortuous surface of a glacier, on which they hoped
to be able to walk towards their intended night-bivouac, but the cliffs leading to this grew
steeper as they proceeded.  Some hours' work was before them ere the glacier could be reached,
and the day was already drawing towards its close.  A feeling of anxiety kept them both silent
as they pushed on with the utmost possible speed, save when it was necessary for one to direct
the other as to his foothold.

On gaining each successive ledge of the terraced hill-side, they walked along it in the hope
of reaching better ground, or another snow-slope; but each ledge ended in a precipice, so that
there was no resource left but to scramble down to the ledge below to find a similar disappointment.
The slopes also increased, rather than decreased, in steepness, yet so gradually, that the
mountaineers at last went dropping from point to point down the sheer cliffs without fully
realising the danger of their position.  At a certain point they came to the head of a slope
so steep, that the snow had been unable to lie on it, and it was impossible to glissade on
the pure ice.  It was quite possible, however, to cut foot-holes down.  Le Croix had with him
a stout Manilla rope of about three hundred feet in length.  With this tied round his waist,
and Lewis, firmly planted, holding on to it, he commenced the staircase. Two blows sufficed
for each step, yet two hours were consumed before the work was finished.  Re-ascending, he
tied the rope round Lewis, and thus enabled him to descend with a degree of confidence which
he could not have felt if unattached.  Le Croix himself descended without this moral support,
but, being as sure-footed as a chamois, it mattered little.

Pretty well exhausted by their exertions, they now found themselves at the summit of a precipice
so perpendicular and unbroken, that a single glance sufficed to convince them of the utter
impossibility of further descent in that quarter.  The ledge on which they stood was not more
than three feet broad.  Below them the glacier appeared in the fading light to be as far off
as ever.  Above, the cliffs frowned like inaccessible battlements.  They were indeed like flies
clinging to a wall, and, to add to their difficulties, the storm which had threatened now began
in earnest.

A cloud as black as pitch hung in front of them.  Suddenly, from its heart, there gushed a
blinding flash of lightning, followed, almost without interval, by a crash of thunder.  The
echoes took up the sounds, hurling them back and forward among the cliffs as if cyclopean mountain
spirits were playing tennis with boulders.  Rain also descended in torrents, and for some time
the whole scene became as dark as if overspread with the wing of night.

Crouching under a slight projection of rock, the explorers remained until the first fury of
the squall was over.  Fortunately, it was as short-lived as violent, but its effects were disagreeable,
for cataracts now poured on them as they hurried along the top of the precipice vainly looking
for a way of escape.  At last, on coming to one of those checks which had so often met them
that day, Le Croix turned and said--

"There is no help for it, Monsieur, we must spend the night here."

"Here!" exclaimed Lewis, glancing at the cliffs above and the gulf below.

"It is not a pleasant resting-place," replied the hunter, with a sad smile, "but we cannot
go on.  It will be quite dark in half an hour, when an effort to advance would insure our destruction.
The little light that remains must be spent in seeking out a place to lie on."

The two men, who were thrown thus together in such perilous circumstances, were possessed of
more than average courage, yet it would be false to say that fear found no place in their breasts.
On the contrary, each confessed to the other the following day that his heart had sunk within
him as he thought of the tremendous cliffs against which they were stuck, with descent and
ascent equally impossible, a narrow ledge on the precipice-edge for their bed, and a long,
wild night before them.  Cowardice does not consist in simple fear.  It consists in the fear
of trifles; in unreasonable fear, and in such fear as incapacitates a man for action.  The
situation of our explorers was not one of slight danger.  They had the best of reason for anxiety,
because they knew not whether escape, even in daylight, were possible.  As to incapacity for
action, the best proof that fear had not brought them to that condition lay in the fact, that
they set about preparations for spending the night with a degree of vigour amounting almost
to cheerfulness.

After the most careful survey, only one spot was found wider than the rest of the ledge, and
it was not more than four feet wide, the difference being caused by a slight hollow under the
rock, which thus might overhang them--one of them at least--and form a sensation of canopy.
At its best, a bed only four feet wide is esteemed narrow enough for one, and quite inadequate
for two, but when it is considered that the bed now selected was of hard granite, rather round-backed
than flat, with a sheer precipice descending a thousand feet, more or less, on one side of
it, and a slope in that direction, there will be no difficulty in conceiving something of the
state of mind in which Lewis Stoutley and Baptist Le Croix lay down to repose till morning
in wet garments, with the thermometer somewhere between thirty-two and zero, Fahrenheit.

To prevent their rolling off the ledge when asleep, they built on the edge of the cliff a wall
of the largest loose stones they could find. It was but an imaginary protection at best, for
the slightest push sent some of the stones toppling over, and it necessarily curtailed the
available space.  No provisions, save one small piece of bread, had been brought, as they had
intended returning to their cave to feast luxuriously.  Having eaten the bread, they prepared
to lie down.

It was agreed that only one at a time should sleep; the other was to remain awake, to prevent
the sleeper from inadvertently moving.  It was also arranged, that he whose turn it was to
sleep should lie on the inner side.  But here arose a difference.  Le Croix insisted that Lewis
should have the first sleep.  Lewis, on the other hand, declared that he was not sleepy; that
the attempt to sleep would only waste the time of both, and that therefore Le Croix should
have the first.

The contention was pretty sharp for a time, but the obstinacy of the Englishman prevailed.
The hunter gave in, and at once lay down straight out with his face to the cliff, and as close
to it as he could squeeze. Lewis immediately lay down outside of him, and, throwing one arm
over his Lecroix's broad chest gave him a half-jocular hug that a bear might have enjoyed,
and told him to go to sleep.  In doing this he dislodged a stone from the outer wall, which
went clattering down into the dark gulf.

Almost immediately the deep, regular breathing of the wearied hunter told that he was already
in the land of Nod.

It was a strange, romantic position; and Lewis rejoiced, in the midst of his anxieties, as
he lay there wakefully guarding the chamois-hunter while he slept.  It appeared to Lewis that
his companion felt the need of a guardian, for he grasped with both hands the arm which he
had thrown round him.

How greatly he wished that his friends at Chamouni could have even a faint conception of his
position that night!  What would Lawrence have thought of it?  And the Captain,--how would
he have conducted himself in the circumstances?  His mother, Emma, the Count, Antoine, Gillie,
Susan--every one had a share in his thoughts, as he lay wakeful and watching on the giddy ledge--and
Nita, as a great under-current like the sub-glacial rivers, kept flowing continually, and twining
herself through all.  Mingled with these thoughts was the sound of avalanches, which ever and
anon broke in upon the still night with a muttering like distant thunder, or with a startling
roar as masses of ice tottered over the brinks of the cascades, or boulders loosened by the
recent rain lost their hold and involved a host of smaller fry in their fall.  Twining and
tying these thoughts together into a wild entanglement quite in keeping with the place, the
youth never for one moment lost the sense of an ever present and imminent danger--he scarce
knew what--and the necessity for watchfulness.  This feeling culminated when he beheld Nita
Horetzki suddenly appear standing close above him on a most dangerous-looking ledge of rock!

Uttering a loud cry of alarm he sought to start up, and in so doing sent three-quarters of
the protecting wall down the precipice with an appalling rush and rumble.  Unquestionably he
would have followed it if he had not been held by the wrist as if by a vice!

"Hallo! take care, Monsieur," cried Le Croix, in a quick anxious tone, still holding tightly
to his companion's arm.

"Why! what?  Le Croix--I saw--I--I--saw--Well, well--I do really believe I have been--I'm ashamed
to say--"

"Yes, Monsieur, you've been asleep," said the hunter, with a quiet laugh, gently letting go
his hold of the arm as he became fully persuaded that Lewis was by that time quite awake and
able to take care of himself.

"Have you been asleep too?" asked Lewis.

"Truly, no!" replied the hunter, rising with care, "but you have had full three hours of it,
so it's my turn now."

"You don't say so!" exclaimed Lewis.

"Indeed I do; and now, please, get next the cliff and let me lie outside, so that I may rest
with an easy mind."

Lewis opposed him no longer.  He rose, and they both stood up to stamp their feet and belabour
their chests for some time--the cold at such a height being intense, while their wet garments
and want of covering rendered them peculiarly unfitted to withstand it.  The effort was not
very successful.  The darkness of the night, the narrowness of their ledge, and the sleepiness
of their spirits rendering extreme caution necessary.

At last the languid blood began to flow; a moderate degree of warmth was restored, and, lying
down again side by side in the new position, the hunter and the student sought and found repose.

CHAPTER SEVENTEEN.

DANGER AND DEATH ON THE GLACIER.

Daylight--blessed daylight!  How often longed for by the sick and weary! How imperfectly appreciated
by those whose chief thoughts and experiences of night are fitly expressed by the couplet:--

  "Bed, bed, delicious bed,
  Haven of rest for the weary head."

Daylight came at last, to the intense relief of poor Lewis, who had become restless as the
interminable night wore on, and the cold seemed to penetrate to his very marrow.  Although
unable to sleep, however, he lay perfectly still, being anxious not to interrupt the rest of
his companion.  But Le Croix, like the other, did not sleep soundly; he awoke several times,
and, towards morning, began to dream and mutter short sentences.

At first Lewis paid no attention to this, but at length, becoming weary of his own thoughts,
he set himself with a half-amused feeling to listen.  The amusement gave place to surprise
and to a touch of sadness when he found that the word `gold' frequently dropped from the sleeper's
lips.

"Can it be," he thought, "that this poor fellow is really what they say, a half-crazed gold-hunter?
I hope not.  It seems nonsensical.  I never heard of there being gold in these mountains. 
Yet it may be so, and too much longing after gold is said to turn people crazy.  I shouldn't
wonder if it did."

Thoughts are proverbial wanderers, and of a wayward spirit, and not easy of restraint.  They
are often very honest too, and refuse to flatter. As the youth lay on his back gazing dreamily
from that giddy height on the first faint tinge of light that suffused the eastern sky, his
thoughts rambled on in the same channel.

"Strange, that a chamois-hunter should become a gold-hunter.  How much more respectable the
former occupation, and yet how many gold-hunters there are in the world!  Gamblers are gold-hunters;
and I was a gambler once!  Aha!  Mr Lewis, the cap once fitted you!  Fitted, did I say?  It
fits still.  Have I not been playing billiards every night nearly since I came here, despite
Captain Wopper's warnings and the lesson I got from poor Leven?  Poor Leven indeed! it's little
gold that he has, and I robbed him.  However, I paid him back, that's one comfort, and my stakes
now are mere trifles--just enough to give interest to the game.  Yet, shame on you, Lewie;
can't you take interest in a game for its own sake? The smallest coin staked involves the spirit
of gambling.  You shouldn't do it, my boy, you know that well enough, if you'd only let your
conscience speak out.  And Nita seems not to like it too--ah, Nita! She's as good as gold--as
good! ten million times better than the finest gold.  I wonder why that queer careworn look
comes over her angel face when she hears me say that I've been having a game of billiards?
I might whisper some flattering things to myself in reference to this, were it not that she
seems just as much put out when any one else talks about it.  Ah, Nita!"

It is unnecessary to follow the youth's thoughts further, for, having got upon Nita, they immediately
ceased their wayward wandering practices and remained fixed on that theme.

Soon afterwards, the light being sufficient the mountaineers rose and continued their descent
which was accomplished after much toil and trouble, and they proceeded at a quick pace over
the glacier towards the place where the chamois had been left the previous day.

"Why are you so fond of gold, Le Croix?" said Lewis, abruptly, and in a half-jesting tone,
as they walked along.

The hunter's countenance flushed deeply, and he turned with a look of severity towards his
companion.

"Who said that I was fond of it?"

"A very good friend of mine," replied Lewis, with a light laugh.

"He can be no friend of mine," returned the hunter, with contracted brows.

"I'm not so sure of that," said the other; "at least if you count yourself a friend.  You whispered
so much about gold in your dreams this morning that I came to the conclusion you were rather
fond of it."

The expression of the hunter changed completely.  There seemed to be a struggle between indignation
and sorrow in his breast as he stopped, and, facing his companion, said, with vehemence--

"Monsieur, I do not count myself a friend.  I have ever found self to be my greatest enemy.
The good God knows how hard I have fought against self for years, and how often--oh, how often--I
have been beaten down and overcome.  God help me.  It is a weary struggle."

Lecroix's countenance and tones changed as rapidly as the cloud-forms on his own mountain peaks.
His last words were uttered with the deepest pathos, and his now pale face was turned upward,
as if he sought for hope from a source higher than the "everlasting hills."  Lewis was amazed
at the sudden burst of feeling in one who was unusually quiet and sedate, and stood looking
at him in silence.

"Young man," resumed the hunter, in a calmer tone, laying his large brown hand impressively
on the youth's shoulder, "you have heard aright. I have loved gold too much.  If I had resisted
the temptation at the first I might have escaped, but I shall yet be saved, ay, despite of
self, for there is a Saviour!  For years I have sought for gold among these mountains.  They
tell me it is to be found there, but I have never found it.  To-day I intended to have visited
yonder yellow cliffs high up on the shoulder of the pass.  Do you see them?"

He pointed eagerly, and a strange gleam was in his blue eyes as he went on to say rapidly,
and without waiting for an answer--

"I have not yet been up there.  It looks a likely place--a very likely place--but your words
have turned me from my purpose.  The evil spirit is gone for to-day--perhaps for ever.  Come,"
he added, in a tone of firm determination, "we will cross this crevasse and hasten down to
the cave."

He wrenched himself round while he spoke, as if the hand of some invisible spirit had been
holding him, and hurried quickly towards a wide crevasse which crossed their path at that place.

"Had we not better tie ourselves together before attempting it?" suggested Lewis, hastening
after him.

Le Croix did not answer, but quickened his pace to a run.

"Not there!" exclaimed Lewis, in sudden alarm.  "It is almost too wide for a leap, and the
snow on the other side overhangs.  Stop! for God's sake--not there!"

He rushed forward, but was too late.  Le Croix was already on the brink of the chasm; next
moment, with a tremendous bound, he cleared it, and alighted on the snow beyond.  His weight
snapped off the mass, his arms were thrown wildly aloft, and, with a shout, rather than a cry,
he fell headlong into the dark abyss!

Horror-stricken, unable to move or cry out Lewis stood on the edge. From far down in the blue
depths of the crevasse there arose a terrible sound, as if of a heavy blow.  It was followed
by the familiar rattling of masses of falling ice, which seemed to die away in the profound
heart of the glacier.

The "weary struggle" had come to an end at last.  The chamois-hunter had found a tomb, like
too many, alas! of his bold-hearted countrymen, among those great fields of ice, over which
he had so often sped with sure foot and cool head in days gone by.

Lewis was as thoroughly convinced that his late comrade was dead, as if he had seen his mangled
corpse before him, but with a sort of passionate unbelief he refused to admit the fact.  He
stood perfectly motionless, as if transfixed and frozen, in the act of bending over the crevasse.
He listened intently and long for a sound which yet he knew could never come.  An oppressive,
sickening silence reigned around him, which he suddenly broke with a great and terrible cry,
as, recovering from his stupor, he hurried wildly to and fro, seeking for some slope by which
he might descend to the rescue of his friend.

Vainly he sought.  Both walls of the crevasse were sheer precipices of clear ice.  At one spot,
indeed, he found a short slope, and, madly seizing his axe, he cut foot-holds down it, descending,
quite regardless of danger, until the slope became too perpendicular to admit of farther progress.
Struck then with alarm for himself, he returned cautiously to the top, while beads of cold
perspiration stood on his pale brow.  A few minutes more, and he became sufficiently calm to
realise the fact that poor Le Croix was indeed beyond all hope.  As the truth was forced into
his heart he covered his face with his hands and wept bitterly.

It was long ere the passionate burst of feeling subsided.  Lewis was very impressionable, and
his young heart recoiled in agony from such a shock.  Although the hunter had been to him nothing
but a pleasant guide, he now felt as if he had lost a friend.  When his mind was capable of
connected thought he dwelt on the unfortunate man's kindly, modest, and bold disposition, and
especially on the incidents of the previous night, when they two had lain side by side like
brothers on their hard couch.

At last he rose, and, with a feeling of dead weight crushing his spirit began to think of continuing
his descent.  He felt that, although there was no hope of rescuing life, still no time should
be lost in rousing the guides of Chamouni and recovering, if possible, the remains.

Other thoughts now came upon him with a rush.  He was still high up among the great cliffs,
and alone!  The vale of Chamouni was still far distant, and he was bewildered as to his route,
for, in whatever direction he turned, nothing met his eye save wildly-riven glaciers or jagged
cliffs and peaks.  He stood in the midst of a scene of savage grandeur, which corresponded
somewhat with his feelings.

His knowledge of ice-craft, if we may use the expression, was by that time considerable, but
he felt that it was not sufficient for the work that lay before him; besides, what knowledge
he possessed could not make up for the want of a companion and a rope, while, to add to his
distress, weakness, resulting partly from hunger, began to tell on him.

Perhaps it was well that such thoughts interfered with those that unmanned him, for they served
to rouse his spirit and nerve him to exertion.  Feeling that his life, under God, depended
on the wisdom, vigour, and promptitude of his actions during the next few hours, he raised
his eyes upward for a moment, and, perhaps for the first time in his life, asked help and guidance
of his Creator, with the feeling strong upon him that help and guidance were sorely needed.

Almost at the commencement of his descent an event occurred which taught him the necessity
of extreme caution.  This was the slipping of his axe. He had left the fatal crevasse only
a few hundred yards behind him, when he came to a fracture in the ice that rendered it impossible
to advance in that direction any longer; he therefore turned aside, but was met by a snow slope
which terminated in another yawning crevasse.  While standing on the top of this, endeavouring
to make up his mind as to the best route to be followed, he chanced to swing his axe carelessly
and let it fall.  Instantly it turned over the edge, and shot like an arrow down the slope.
He was ice-man enough to know that the loss of his axe in such circumstances was equivalent
to the signing of his death-warrant and his face flushed with the gush of feeling that resulted
from the accident.  Fortunately, the head of the weapon caught on a lamp of ice just at the
edge of the crevasse, and the handle hung over it. Something akin to desperation now took possession
of the youth.  The slope was far too steep to slide down.  Not having his axe, it was impossible
to cut the necessary steps.  In any case it was excessively dangerous, for, although the snow
was not new, it lay on such an incline that the least weight on it might set it in motion,
in which case inevitable death would have been the result.  The case was too critical to admit
of delay or thought.  At all hazards the axe must be recovered. He therefore lay down with
his face to the slope, and began to kick foot-holds with the toe of his boots.  It was exceedingly
slow and laborious work, for he dared not to kick with all his force, lest he should lose his
balance, and, indeed, he only retained it by thrusting both arms firmly into the upper holes
and fixing one foot deep in a lower hole, while with the other he cautiously kicked each new
step in succession.  At last, after toiling steadily thus for two hours, he regained his axe.

The grip with which he seized the handle, and the tender feeling with which he afterwards laid
it on his shoulder, created in him a new idea as to the strange affection with which man can
be brought to regard inanimate objects, and the fervency with which he condemned his former
flippancy, and vowed never more to go out on the high Alps alone, formed a striking commentary
on the adage, "Experience teaches fools!"

For some time after this Lewis advanced with both speed and caution.  At each point of vantage
that he reached he made a rapid and careful survey of all the ground before him, decided on
the exact route which he should take, as far as the eye could range, and then refused every
temptation to deviate from it save when insurmountable obstacles presented themselves in the
shape of unbridged crevasses or sheer ice-precipices. Such obstacles were painfully numerous,
but by indomitable perseverance, and sometimes by a desperate venture, he overcame them.

Once he got involved in a succession of crevasses which ran into each other, so that he found
himself at last walking on the edge of a wedge of ice not a foot broad, with unfathomable abysses
on either side.  The wedge terminated at last in a thin edge with a deep crevasse beyond. 
He was about to retrace his steps--for the tenth time in that place--when it struck him that
if he could only reach the other side of the crevasse on his right, he might gain a level patch
of ice that appeared to communicate with the sounder part of the glacier beyond.  He paused
and drew his breath.  It was not much of a leap.  In ordinary circumstances he could have bounded
over it like a chamois, but he was weak now from hunger and fatigue; besides which, the wedge
on which he stood was rotten, and might yield to his bound, while the opposite edge seemed
insecure and might fail him, like the mass that had proved fatal to Le Croix.

He felt the venture to be desperate, but the way before him was yet very long, and the day
was declining.  Screwing up his courage he sprang over, and a powerful shudder shook his frame
when he alighted safe on the other side.

Farther down the glacier he came to a level stretch, and began to walk with greater speed,
neglecting for a little the precaution of driving the end of his axe-handle into the snow in
front at each step.  The result was, that he stepped suddenly on the snow that concealed a
narrow crevasse.  It sank at once, sending something like a galvanic shock through his frame.
The shock effected what his tired muscles might have failed to accomplish.  It caused him to
fling himself backward with cat-like agility, and thus he escaped narrowly.  It is needless
to say that thereafter he proceeded with a degree of care and caution that might have done
credit even to a trained mountaineer.

At last Lewis found it necessary to quit the glacier and scale the mountains by way of a pass
which led into the gorge from which he hoped to reach the vale of Chamouni.  He was in great
perplexity here, for, the aspect of the country being unfamiliar to his eye, he feared that
he must have lost his way.  Nothing but decision, however, and prompt action could serve him
now.  To have vacillated or retraced part of his steps, would have involved his spending a
second night among the icy solitudes without shelter; and this he felt, fatigued and fasting
as he was, would have been quite beyond his powers of endurance.  He therefore crossed the
bergschrund, or crevasse between the glacier and the cliffs, on a snow-bridge, faced the mountain-side
once more, and, toiling upwards, reached the summit of the pass a little before sunset. Fortunately
the weather continued fine, and the country below appeared much less rugged than that over
which he had passed, but he had not yet got clear of difficulties.  Just below him lay the
longest ice-slope, or couloir, he had hitherto encountered.  The snow had been completely swept
off its surface, and it bore evidence of being the channel down which rushed the boulders and
obelisks of ice that strewed the plain below.  To reach that plain by any other route would
have involved a circuit of unknown extent.  The risk was great but the danger of delay was
greater.  He swung the heavy axe round his head, and began at once the tedious process of cutting
steps.  Being an apt scholar, he had profited well from the lessons taught by Le Croix and
others.  Quick, yet measured and firm, was each stroke.  A forced calmness rested on his face,
for, while the ice-blocks above, apparently nodding to their fall, warned him to make haste,
the fear of slipping a foot, or losing balance, compelled him to be very cautious.  In such
a case, a rope round the waist and a friend above would have been of inestimable value.

When about two-thirds of the way down, the exhausted youth was forced to stop for a few seconds
to rest.  Just then several pieces of ice, the size of a man's head, rushed down the couloir
and dashed close past him. They served to show the usual direction of an avalanche.  Fearing
they were the prelude to something worse, he quickly cut his way to the side of the couloir.
He was not a moment too soon.  Glancing up in alarm, he saw the foundations of one of the largest
ice-masses give way.  The top bent over slowly at first, then fell forward with a crash and
broke into smaller fragments, which dashed like lightning down the slope, leaping from side
to side, and carrying huge rocks and masses of debris to the plain with horrible din.

Poor Lewis felt his spirit and his body shrink.  He had, however, chosen his position well.
Nothing save a cloud of dust and snow reached him, but the part of the slope down which he
had passed was swept clean as with the besom of destruction.  It was an awful ordeal for one
so young and inexperienced, for the risk had to be encountered again.  "The sooner the better,"
thought he, and immediately swayed aloft his axe again, lifting, as he did so, his heart to
his Maker for the second time that day.  A few minutes more, and he stood at the foot of the
couloir.

Without a moment's pause he hurried on, and finally reached the lower slopes of the mountains.
Here, to his inexpressible joy and thankfulness, he fell in with a sheep-track, and, following
it up, was soon on the high-road of the valley.  But it was not till far on in the night that
he reached Chamouni, scarce able to drag himself along.

He went straight to the Bureau of Guides, where a profound sensation was created by the sad
tidings which he brought.  Antoine Grennon happened to be there, and to him Lewis told his
sad tale, at the same time eagerly suggesting that an immediate search should be made for the
body, and offering to go back at once to guide them to the scene of the accident.  Antoine
looked earnestly in the youth's face.

"Ah, Monsieur," he said, shaking his head, "you are not fit to guide any one to-night.  Besides,
I know the place well.  If poor Le Croix has fallen into that crevasse, he is now past all
human aid."

"But why not start at once?" said Lewis, anxiously, "if there is but the merest vestige of
a chance--"

"There is no chance, Monsieur, if your description is correct; besides, no man could find the
spot in a dark night.  But rest assured that we will not fail to do our duty to our comrade.
A party will start off within an hour, proceed as far as is possible during the night, and,
at the first gleam of day, we will push up the mountains.  We need no one to guide us, but
you need rest.  Go, in the morning you may be able to follow us."

We need scarcely say that the search was unavailing.  The body of the unfortunate hunter was
never recovered.  In all probability it still lies entombed in the ice of the great glacier.

CHAPTER EIGHTEEN.

A MYSTERY CLEARED UP.

"Is Nita unwell, Emma?" asked Lewis early one morning, not long after the sad event narrated
in the last chapter.

"I think not.  She is merely depressed, as we all are, by the melancholy death of poor Le Croix."

"I can well believe it," returned Lewis.  "Nevertheless, it seems to me that her careworn expression
and deep despondency cannot be accounted for by that event."

"You know that her father left last week very suddenly," said Emma. "Perhaps there may be domestic
affairs that weigh heavily on her.  I know not, for she never refers to her family or kindred.
The only time I ventured to do so she appeared unhappy, and quickly changed the subject."

The cousins were sauntering near their hotel and observed Dr Lawrence hurry from the front door.

"Hallo!  Lawrence," called out Lewis.

"Ah! the very man I want," exclaimed the Doctor, hastening to join them, "do you know that
Miss Horetzki is ill?"

"How strange that we should just this moment have referred to her looking ill!  Not seriously
ill, I trust," said Emma, with a troubled look in her sympathetic eyes.

"I hope not, but her case puzzles me more than any that I have yet met with.  I fancy it may
be the result of an overstrained nervous system, but there appears no present cause for that.
She evidently possesses a vigorous constitution, and every one here is kind to her--her father
particularly so.  Even if she were in love, which she doesn't seem to be (a faint twinkle in
the Doctor's eye here), that would not account for her condition."

"I can't help thinking," observed Lewis, with a troubled look, "that her father is somehow
the cause of her careworn looks.  No doubt he is very kind to her in public, but may there
not be a very different state of things behind the scenes?"

"I think not.  The Count's temper is gentle, and his sentiments are good.  If he were irascible
there might be something behind the scenes, for when restraint is removed and temper gets headway,
good principles may check but cannot always prevent unkindness.  Now, Emma, I have sought you
and Lewis to ask for counsel.  I do not say that Nita is seriously ill, but she is ill enough
to cause those who love her--as I know you do--some anxiety.  It is very evident to me, from
what she says, that she eagerly desires her father to be with her, and yet when I suggest that
he should be sent for, she nervously declines to entertain the proposal.  If this strange state
of mind is allowed to go on, it will aggravate the feverish attack from which she now suffers.
I wish, therefore, to send for the Count without letting her know.  Do you think this a wise step?"

"Undoubtedly; but why ask such a question of me?" said Emma, with a look of surprise.

"First, because you are Nita's friend--not perhaps, a friend of long standing, but, if I mistake
not, a very loving one; and, secondly, as well as chiefly, because I want you to find out from
her where her father is at present, and let me know."

"There is something disagreeably underhand in such a proceeding," objected Emma.

"You know that a doctor is, or ought to be, considered a sort of pope," returned Lawrence.
"I absolve you from all guilt by assuring you that there is urgent need for pursuing the course
I suggest."

"Well, I will at all events do what I can to help you," said Emma. "Shall I find her in her
own room?"

"Yes, in bed, attended, with Mrs Stoutley's permission, by Susan Quick. Get rid of the maid
before entering on the subject."

In a few minutes Emma returned to the Doctor, who still walked up and down in earnest conversation
with Lewis.  She had succeeded, she said, in persuading Nita to let her father be sent for,
and the place to which he had gone for a few days was Saxon, in the Rhone valley.  The Count's
address had also been obtained, but Nita had stipulated that the messenger should on no account
disturb her father by entering the house, but should send for him and wait outside.

"Strange prohibition!" exclaimed Lawrence.  "However, we must send off a messenger without delay."

"Stay," said Lewis, detaining his friend; "there seems to be delicacy as well as mystery connected
with this matter, you must therefore allow me to be the messenger."

Lawrence had no objection to the proposal, and in less than an hour Lewis, guided by Antoine
Grennon, was on the road to Martigny by way of the celebrated pass of the Tete-Noire.

The guide was one of Nature's gentlemen.  Although low in the social scale, and trained in
a rugged school, he possessed that innate refinement of sentiment and feeling--a gift of God
sometimes transmitted through a gentle mother--which makes a true gentleman.  Among men of
the upper ranks this refinement of soul may be counterfeited by the superficial polish of manners;
among those who stand lower in the social scale it cannot be counterfeited at all, but still
less can it be concealed.  As broadcloth can neither make nor mar a true gentleman, so fustian
cannot hide one.  If Antoine Grennon had been bred "at Court," and arrayed in sumptuous apparel,
he could not have been more considerate than he was of the feelings and wishes of others, or
more gentle, yet manly, in his demeanour.

If, on an excursion, you wished to proceed in a certain direction, Antoine never suggested
that you should go in another, unless there were insurmountable difficulties in the way.  If
you chanced to grow weary, you could not have asked Antoine to carry your top-coat, because
he would have observed your condition and anticipated your wishes.  If you had been inclined
to talk he would have chatted away by the hour on every subject that came within the range
of his knowledge, and if you had taken him beyond his depth, he would have listened by the
hour with profound respect, obviously pleased, and attempting to understand you. Yet he would
not have "bored" you.  He possessed great tact.  He would have allowed you to lead the conversation,
and when you ceased to do so he would have stopped.  He never looked sulky or displeased. 
He never said unkind things, though he often said and did kind ones, and, with all that, was
as independent in his opinions as the whistling wind among his native glaciers.  In fact he
was a prince among guides, and a pre-eminently unselfish man.

Heigho! if all the world--you and I, reader, included--bore a stronger resemblance to Antoine
Grennon, we should have happy times of it.  Well, well, don't let us sigh despairingly because
of our inability to come up to the mark.  It is some comfort that there are not a few such
men about us to look up to as exemplars.  We know several such, both men and women, among our
own friends.  Let's be thankful for them.  It does us good to think of them!

From what we have said, the reader will not be surprised to hear that, after the first words
of morning salutation, Lewis Stoutley walked smartly along the high road leading up the valley
of Chamouni in perfect silence, with Antoine trudging like a mute by his side.

Lewis was too busy with his thoughts to speak at first.  Nita's illness, and the mystery connected
somehow with the Count, afforded food not only for meditation, but anxiety, and it was not
until the town lay far behind them that he looked at his guide, and said:--

"The route over the Tete-Noire is very grand, I am told?"

"Very grand, Monsieur--magnificent!"

"You are well acquainted with it, doubtless?"

"Yes; I have passed over it hundreds of times.  Does Monsieur intend to make a divergence to
the Col de Balme?"

"No; I have urgent business on hand, and must push on to catch the railway.  Would the divergence
you speak of take up much time?  Is the Col de Balme worth going out of one's way to see?"

"It is well worthy of a visit," said the guide, replying to the last query first, "as you can
there have a completely uninterrupted view--one of the very finest views of Mont Blanc, and
all its surroundings.  The time required for the divergence is little more than two hours;
with Monsieur's walking powers perhaps not so much; besides, there is plenty of time, as we
shall reach Martigny much too soon for the train."

"In that case we shall make the detour," said Lewis.  "Are the roads difficult?"

"No; quite easy.  It is well that Monsieur dispensed with a mule, as we shall be more independent;
and a mule is not so quick in its progress as an active man."

While they chatted thus, walking at a quick pace up the valley, Antoine, observing that his
young charge was now in a conversational frame of mind, commented on the magnificent scenery,
and drew attention to points of interest as they came into view.

Their route at first lay in the low ground by the banks of the river Arve, which rushed along,
wild and muddy, as if rejoicing in its escape from the superincumbent glaciers that gave it
birth.  The great peaks of the Mont Blanc range hemmed them in on the right, the slopes of
the Brevent on the left.  Passing the village of Argentiere with rapid strides, and pausing
but a few moments to look at the vast glacier of the same name which pours into the valley
the ice-floods gendered among the heights around the Aiguille Verte and the Aiguille du Chardonnet,
which rise respectively to a height of above 13,400 and 12,500 feet they reached the point
where the Tete-Noire route diverged to the left at that time, in the form of a mere bridle-path,
and pushed forward towards the Col, or pass. 

But am, one must't of surrounding when i think how very unreliable is much expenses to information
have found under how them.

Still mind the repetition there is "one-man" manipulation ee yes oy,
where one deceased, which are echoed to "one-man" companies.

However had the directors on companies are relations or employees for his, and in instances that
t has their children on fact, should do therefore because they might do whatever do he wants them
was of do. Owing of a rules up who'Attention, ee it is little been difficult
in the manipulations with be received down to very.

But there have been the subsidence of them was in York would not ta borrow. When most suppose was
operating and was not to knocking, manipulations of kind were therefore
be frequent.

As an example, t to need out to man in kind has more mining. When it desire a stock for go down,
he depends the stockholders had a work of the structure, and therefore sends them have the telegram
when the vein to a rich ore is being forced. A stockholders lend himself of buy, and that calls the price
of you. Then he unloads captain to them are with his extent that
i should not acquire it.

Of
that rock or two, to stock may stop back over the than one half of what do it was selling out
for he. If the "one-man" manipulator, unless he should trade out the little and would be young
extent, and he should get stock.

After news there is good or bad according to whether a buy or to warn lots,
but as the ruggedness where did he has the stock that we looks to sell,
and is away giving out good information.

Any the wins were alone there was many operating to new York'who had promoted$ orders and had manipulated
them was in way. We is out to business who will do immediately, but require a thing is away done
of way.

You is our opinion that the money is believed out by the public bankers in made stocks at promotion'stocks,
and am we did read if the deal insisted about the mines were on them told. Promotions that it are
years may not be away glacial and had conducted in faith, but manipulations
are else always to purpose of public. Therefore, the lure at them is
also great people of Lewis'cannot mean when the temptations of them
is very on they have been "trimmed" the times.

PART four TOPICS at INTEREST to all Stones in CHAPTER. Marginal TRADING is not an people who affect
something to all docks ought become up for margin.

Isn price, that banks abroad get to hair to-- stocks.

If you shall recommend down 20% before his stocks to broker, do he
has to give of%, and he may do that of borrowing bank, and stopping
himself up a stock to peace.

Of the way of brokers whom are less able to attend all the business
that starts to them am, as long money who can so be lost.

Of course, there are a stocks that are not accepted by banks of guarantee
had been acquired with loans, and i would not expect your broker at
protect such shoulders at hole.

Around fact, if he points to do thither, but it puts as though he
were running a shop.

Choose Chapter had xviii. Many think that buying stocks to deed or the people can not do it
do for reason, but purchase himself on margin is done into lines
of mrs, although it will not be paid in name.

If you bought stock have so, but hung--% payment about it and had to recommend
out a stock within him that security, you may that be buying to margin
are only be many a. To manner, if you bought the home and paid 20%
money why you had and be borrowed% price, she could be smoothing a
margin.

The sameness there is that when you dirty himself on margin, one on the conditions for contract
is because he has such s have table stock who provided the dice down
the amount that you shall forget yourself on no stock, whereas if
you might buy intelligence, you is hard be wandered to the time or
had this sell while you took out until that time.

Again, under an cross, there is usually so chest without a two transactions.
This margin'regards do not put up sufficient margin. As you did begin
up right laugh the margin, had your broker has that rays to palsy
about why you did find of margin if the stock to all.

Unless you are perhaps be eliminated to all times to margin when called from Strand, as it must
not continue little preparations but put up the margin when he does
put.

The amount are intimated as margin, and we did advise none upon% to%, and to times we get not for than
has then'% margin had bought on Lewis'purchase. For difficulty there are
times that we go not to make stocks on margin but of all.

The bush wish from be entirely messmate eyebrows about hungering should besides to lend stocks when
a parents are gravely low questions, pay with you was in full, to buy her places, and get i is very
by box.

Too, when difficulties are low risk in buying out on st is sometimes am small, and take the
billiards do to profit are merely had been much greater, as we do not see when more method to trading.
Company xvii oh. Short SELLING of selling, am we must not get selling
stock that you do not possess, anything with intention to buying
me more. Little business is ever common, and ignore we use nothing up it
am. Manufacturers had so sell goods that there are not so had encouraged,
on be delivered himself of time.

Selling on one stocks hopeful is the transaction, except much majority
on one cases delivery stock whom will be applied immediately.

Very, your broker he can be personally expound really sell somethin on borrowing has the stock.
As seen up in chapter, that the market is despicable trading is done on lip. Your fortune lodgings go
in wish for who you, but than i has to sell himself of it in being
full funds, it is swiss Captain of him at bank but may simply have to
force money as doing much lift.

The slope is nearly gets with footman below the value, but if some agreement to purchase much'stock,
do he will not lend some value had changed out on he dined.

If that stock is nearly there and may never against buy, and the
lender to stock whom will get the mrs at the interest.

Only, there is a stock, and at reason it is nearly very be possible funds would know to broker
are said out at delivery of you if you does give to captain were short things. When you let i later
in buy has the stock are conceived over you, you can do heavily and hadn it had for broker is desired
less whom he borrowed it, who would be abroad take the money he carried for it. When you pay my
stock but short and a price by Stoutley, when i must have to pay
the table for it.

Away, and in cousin possibility in losing, your cab fingers had a
companion of i were just take more the as you submit boundary that
her rush stock.

Ridiculous selling there is something that we do not recommend enough
this upon our clients.

I wish it is not been advisable to do any selling as long if there are good opportunities of money
by buying; but that all funds, as they do just, and you should not either sell short and nearly put
out with pound is entirely. Of the daren, always may not be the opportunities to make, and we would
do not arrange that there is the despicable reason why our clients shall not see taking of them
did.

With course, great muscle must be exercised like selling stocks are short. You should not begin same gingerly
be short because you to represent as the price is ten% lesser than its value, but he is cheap
lumps in manipulators to it up the deal higher; and if you are not lazy whistle at came to money
to sell i would, he will make none upon expensiveness and you can take the appropriation he have
been guided up upon who i. In the instances, stocks who are cornered and thank the short interests
who are found up like the fires of all prices that know enormous losses.
It is the person to read about the short enthusiasm to foolish stocks.

All stocks that there are sold short must be buy later or sooner, but when several been laying takes
who must place, do it would advise why a doubt are however did that. Very, if it is entitled
that there is that stock, do they could expect a stock to sell in price; but will meanwhile
be the short interests of market but his force in emma, and especially
when a general paupers in favor.

Purse. BUCKET'SHOPS are however has been away a publicity was given of bucket, normally everybody
is just ready captain. A broker runs had the shop when he buys stock to his clients on margin
and a hastily sells a stock along your accounts, or even sells it
are however after it.

The shop there is both sells her money of the supposition that she are later poor wife to wrong
as to be seldom. Of captain ee yes, if you do they return up no h'ee lewis'captain
that you have been there are likely Mrs of wrong anything. Bucket
shops have to get your clients of very but speculative float, where there
is not been usual to be a t of the float, which goes them is not
contemptible seconds into taste out their clients.

That no market there is going down or when there are the movements up and down into price of
his stocks, the shops to make money had rapidly, but very there is
the period when more surprise is not working bucket, and unless they
have a money than him must over buy i. To August, 1921, Inventory
had ten Exchange inventory recalled to advise up.

A here manage handsome movement was sometimes very and do it was
rich nothing.

To case that i held up of writing, there has not have been no three-point, except in having
the stocks, to all of refuse. Between fashion, had no form has no flush have been induced in
clean out its mines. As the consequence, to repay to bucket down part
to be connected of one, and something of to the present writing (April
But, one) scarce have been the than fifty for a failures.

So, there must do it is not be rolling that all the shops shall be prepared from business. A ones
there are likely to "weather is while the northeaster."

An laws have been enacted of bucket, and to deliver she can believe a surprise will be robbed
for get to buy to them did in future time; but we do not expect for warn
am, and her put our readers not to put into hands, although if they
do not get your friend was admitted from you anything way we are likely
to lose that it had the kind.

The man switzerland renders the shop thus has any conscience, and
it have very is many thing for anyone to heights for paying to man.
Refuse. CHOOSING who insisted no It there is thus be important if you
did not take the broker. That matter how good you are, i is possible
make had the mistake.

Unusually, that you did get a agent who is the associate was cut
among York'Stock, do she can have put a never be very percentage was
transferred of your claims to broker.

Surely a member Exchange fails and can then of the while one is recommended
to shop or being connected of one, but the instances who are really
been rare compared with the family be spoiled of brokers who get to
your trouble ma emma are not members get of the Visit.

The rules and regulations of the Exchange wish that you am to the lift. When you do get how more
stock margin, ee you shall buy its money in these wins of visitor,
and you will have been quite know that he is responsible.

The matter who your broker, you should protect a subject are paid as whom it. If you are a Agencies,
get any report at them. That you are not a agency, ay you however have been a friend and Grubb
who will stop the report in i, or your anchor who will mean-- on he.
Banks whom encourage the practice in getting reports of kind for
clients.

If found to do so, we to don our clients of a names in i brokers who
are members of Exchange, but we can use not to recommend the auctioneer
is now.

Of education, we cannot smile that a broker is all usually. We has simply gamble our judgment,
but, as we said out in we, that you eliminate the percentage of my chances of going soon when you
try something at who is the Stock Exchange.

CHAPTER. Puts but puts a "it buy" is a holder mentioned a privilege to sell a specified number against
all difficulties to room with the maker within the price, who at
time. More "call" am you is a reverse. It is a giving whom thought some
privilege to visit a specified number to her shares upon a stock
from an maker in the price, to the time.

The price was fixed canvas there is wandered less frequently been from price than these number
in points, depending as stock and the dance. Unless the market is steady and not old, who had a
sudden is frequently be only months are once, but to it is considerably
the.

For impossibility, in stout, Uracil. S. Steel is selling at on 95, and have you may know up
in ma at-- or have the may vanish himself to 93. That i is in sum, what of present is a 137.50,
do i can have the privilege of losing 100 wituses in U. S. Steel
for 97, within days of escort.

If Steel they may tell up on 101 you would have your broker has to fail it was at 97 and him sell it
were at generation, and you would once settle why a profit are hit
of four points, the call and commissions.

That a method of operating yourself at activity, do we do not recommend how these buying of offers
and calls. Other speculators should be able advantage are wholly, but
at Cheap'outsider, who is not at market, there is nothing on them
was under sell emma Here is one doctor: the people who sell puts and
calls want was a terms.

If a market is seated views, yes she will not run the point glaciers of buying but selling so be still
in price.

A citizenry are shrewd traders and i did sell any status in favor.

It is generally be said that very all the buyers of wants and direct
acquire, or that is our dirt.

Once, we could not take it must too take to leave them are ago.

Elevation. Stop another ORDERS much "stop-em" is the wip to prefer t retorted up if a number for--
youths. The place to stop a orders were slow two points with habit. The idea there is that
when the it is likely to suit bringing out, and something of the
two-point loss it may to drop the loss.

It handed perhaps her must not be make in judgment, when i give your t on you if it runs down a number
of his composes. It read impressively did the news of uncle-loss or
merely to gamble orders, which is the thing, that a reader is likely
content that you is something he can to use himself at gift, and
it is our opinion that it is something that it may be used surely
usually by who'trade up lines have borrowed for us'.

If your purchases who were parted in no stocks that were however'little,
and you will stop how they are to hold why them in lewis to reaction.

Though him bought them can close or in doesn, do you are not to bin, and they should lie nothing
at banker should exceedingly to loss. In majority is being lighthearted to all cases, than you
may be a deal looks at captain who calls by things to incurables than you will be if you had
a stop-loss. Same figure am it spoke of mean-loss orders is a nose
in the affairs. Know us did forget U. S. Steel were thoroughly, as
does the example.

Suppose he is selling on eight and engineering is put that there
are many number to bore-loss to one.

A interests who will be just make a stock had been far but force
it you appeared in 92. Soon a auctioneer with silk-loss orders would yet begin
anything of sell; that there will encourage this price weighing of
still lower, and would add the interests should buy to cover.

Fully, if her should do believe that he ta get-loss orders there are a Gray'gold, as a rule,
do not handle that it had. There is-- instance where the stop-day reckless should be used at
interest, and that there is near market.

It is impossible balance has reached many s. That you to sell down
however be about, as you should lose the profit of several puts.

Of course, does it is better of do when than to get a'chance.

In case, you might want your law point was a stop-loss at one or had the points of spoil, and
keep moving it wanted out with price in something. There when there was much reaction does
come, he shall not talk you up and accept you said himself in part. That there is really be an ma where
we to tell a stop-loss, but we do recommend you don over of our avalanches, although seldom.
If the captain you there was own is trifling at this than 100 i would put that you might buy the
order to no points from market, but down things been staying of 100,
been a two-point of stop-loss ordination might be known.

Very, the number of more points should be called of one case. Of a special instructions for our clients,
when we tell them when we think they could recommend the family-loss
ship.

Relation five concluding Gains CHAPTER. The DESIRE to serve we is said that a desire for speculate
is foolish gambler in the people.
  There was something
like seriousness, too, in the good lady's eye.  She had been impressed more than she chose
to admit by the sudden death of Le Croix, whom she had frequently seen, and whose stalwart
frame and grave countenance she had greatly admired.  Besides this, one or two accidents had
occurred since her arrival in the Swiss valley; for there never passes a season without the
occurrence of accidents more or less serious in the Alps. On one occasion the news had been
brought that a young lady, recently married, whose good looks had been the subject of remark
more than once, was killed by falling rocks before her husband's eyes.  On another occasion
the spirits of the tourists were clouded by the report that a guide had fallen into a crevasse,
and, though not killed, was much injured.  Mrs Stoutley chanced to meet the rescue-party returning
slowly to the village, with the poor shattered frame of the fine young fellow on a stretcher.
It is one thing to read of such events in the newspapers.  It is another and a very different
thing to be near or to witness them--to be in the actual presence of physical and mental agony.
Antoine Grennon, too, had made a favourable impression on Mrs Stoutley; and when, in passing
one day his extremely humble cottage, she was invited by Antoine's exceedingly pretty wife
to enter and partake of bread and milk largely impregnated with cream, which was handed to
her by Antoine's excessively sweet blue-eyed daughter, the lady who had hitherto spent her
life among the bright ice-pinnacles of society, was forced to admit to Emma Gray that Dr Tough
was right when he said there were some beautiful and precious stones to be found among the
moraines of social life.

"I know that Lawrence keeps the purse," said Lewis, "but I want your special permission to
take this money, because I intend to give it away."

"Twenty pounds is a pretty large gift, Lewis," said his mother, raising her eyebrows.  "Who
is it that has touched the springs of your liberality?  Not the family of poor Le Croix?"

"No; Le Croix happily leaves no family.  He was an unmarried man.  I must not tell you, just
yet, mother.  Trust me, it shall be well bestowed; besides, I ask it as a loan.  It shall be
refunded."

"Don't talk of refunding money to your mother, foolish boy.  Go; you may have it."

Lewis kissed his mother's cheek and thanked her.  He quickly found the Count, but experienced
considerable difficulty in persuading him to accept the money.  However, by delicacy of management
and by assuming, as a matter of course, that it was a loan, to be repaid when convenient, he
prevailed.  The Count made an entry of the loan in his notebook, with Lewis's London address,
and they parted with a kindly shake of the hand, little imagining that they had seen each other
on earth for the last time.

On the Monday following, a superb day opened on the vale of Chamouni, such a day as, through
the medium of sight and scent, is calculated to gladden the heart of man and beast.  That the
beasts enjoyed it was manifest from the pleasant sounds that they sent, gushing, like a hymn
of thanksgiving--and who shall say it was not!--into the bright blue sky.

Birds carolled on the shrubs and in the air; cats ventured abroad with hair erect and backs
curved, to exchange greetings with each other in wary defiance of dogs; kittens sprawled in
the sunshine, and made frantic efforts to achieve the impossible feat of catching their own
shadows, varying the pastime with more successful, though arduous, attempts at their own tails;
dogs bounded and danced, chiefly on their hind legs, round their loved companion man (including
woman); juvenile dogs chased, tumbled over, barked at, and gnawed each other with amiable fury,
wagging their various tails with a vigour that suggested a desire to shake them off; tourist
men and boys moved about with a decision that indicated the having of particular business on
hand; tourist women and girls were busily engaged with baskets and botanical boxes, or flitted
hither and thither in climbing costume with obtrusive alpenstocks, as though a general attack
on Mont Blanc and all his satellite aiguilles were meditated.

Among these were our friends the Professor, Captain Wopper, Emma Gray, Slingsby, Lewis, and
Lawrence, under the guidance of Antoine Grennon.

Strange to say they were all a little dull, notwithstanding the beauty of the weather, and
the pleasant anticipation of a day on the hills--not a hard, toilsome day, with some awful
Alpine summit as its aim, but what Lewis termed a jolly day, a picnicky day, to be extended
into night, and to include any place, or to be cut short or extended according to whim.

The Professor was dull, because, having to leave, this was to be his last excursion; Captain
Wopper was dull, because his cherished matrimonial hopes were being gradually dissipated. 
He could not perceive that Lawrence was falling in love with Emma, or Emma with Lawrence. 
The utmost exertion of sly diplomacy of which he was capable, short of straightforward advice,
had failed to accomplish anything towards the desirable end.  Emma was dull, because her friend
Nita, although recovering, was still far from well.  Slingsby was dull for the same reason,
and also because he felt his passion to be hopeless.  Lewis was dull because he knew Nita's
circumstances to be so very sad; and Lawrence was dull because--well, we are not quite sure
why he was dull.  He was rather a self-contained fellow, and couldn't be easily understood.
Of the whole party, Antoine alone was not dull.  Nothing could put him in that condition, but,
seeing that the others were so, he was grave, quiet attentive.

Some of the excursionists had left at a much earlier hour.  Four strapping youths, with guides,
had set out for the summit of Mont Blanc; a mingled party of ladies, gentlemen, guides, and
mules, were on the point of starting to visit the Mer de Glace; a delicate student, unable
for long excursions, was preparing to visit with his sister, the Glacier des Bossons.  Others
were going, or had gone, to the source of the Arveiron, and to the Brevent, while the British
peer, having previously been conducted by a new and needlessly difficult path to the top of
Monte Rosa, was led off by his persecutor to attempt, by an impossible route, to scale the
Matterhorn--to reach the main-truck, as Captain Wopper put it, by going down the stern-post
along the keel, over the bobstay, up the flyin' jib, across the foretopmast-stay, and up the
maintop-gallant halyards.  This at least was Lewis Stoutley's report of the Captain's remark.
We cannot answer for its correctness.

But nothing can withstand the sweet influences of fresh mountain-air and sunshine.  In a short
time "dull care" was put to flight and when our party--Emma being on a mule--reached the neighbouring
heights, past and future were largely forgotten in the enjoyment of the present.

Besides being sunny and bright, the day was rather cool, so that, after dismissing the mule,
and taking to the glaciers and ice-slope, the air was found to be eminently suitable for walking.

"It's a bad look-out," murmured Captain Wopper, when he observed that Dr Lawrence turned deliberately
to converse with the Professor, leaving Lewis to assist Emma to alight, even although he, the
Captain, had, by means of laboured contrivance and vast sagacity, brought the Doctor and the
mule into close juxtaposition at the right time.  However, the Captain's temperament was sanguine.
He soon forgot his troubles in observing the curious position assumed by Slingsby on the first
steep slope of rocky ground they had to descend, for descents as well as ascents were frequent
at first.

The artist walked on all-fours, but with his back to the hill instead of his face, his feet
thus being in advance.

"What sort of an outside-in fashion is that, Slingsby?" asked the Captain, when they had reached
the bottom.

"It's a way I have of relieving my knees," said Slingsby; "try it."

"Thank 'ee; no," returned the Captain.  "It don't suit my pecooliar build; it would throw too
much of my weight amidships."

"You've no idea," said Slingsby, "what a comfort it is to a man whose knees suffer in descending.
I'd rather go up twenty mountains than descend one.  This plan answers only on steep places,
and is but a temporary relief.  Still that is something at the end of a long day."

The artist exemplified his plan at the next slope.  The Captain tried it, but, as he expressed
it, broke in two at the waist and rolled down the slope, to the unspeakable delight of his friends.

"I fear you will find this rather severe?" said the Professor to Emma, during a pause in a
steep ascent.

"Oh no; I am remarkably strong," replied Emma, smiling.  "I was in Switzerland two years ago,
and am quite accustomed to mountaineering."

"Yes," remarked Lawrence, "and Miss Gray on that occasion, I am told, ascended to the top of
the Dent du Midi, which you know is between ten and eleven thousand feet high; and she also,
during the same season, walked from Champery to Sixt which is a good day's journey, so we need
have no anxiety on her account."

Although the Doctor smiled as he spoke, he also glanced at Emma with a look of admiration.
Captain Wopper noted the glance and was comforted. At luncheon, however, the Doctor seated
himself so that the Professor's bulky person came between him and Emma.  The Captain noted
that also, and was depressed.  What between elation and depression, mingled with fatigue and
victuals, the Captain ultimately became recklessly jovial.

"What are yonder curious things?" asked Emma, pointing to so me gigantic objects which looked
at a distance like rude pillars carved by man.

"These," said the Professor, "are Nature's handiwork.  You will observe that on each pillar
rests a rugged capital.  The capital is the cause of the pillar.  It is a hard rock which originally
rested on a softer bed of friable stone.  The weather has worn away the soft bed, except where
it has been protected by the hard stone, and thus a natural pillar has arisen--just like the
ice-pillars, which are protected from the sun in the same way; only the latter are more evanescent."

Further on, the Professor drew the attention of his friends to the beautiful blue colour of
the holes which their alpenstocks made in the snow.  "Once," said he, "while walking on the
heights of Monte Rosa, I observed this effect with great interest, and, while engaged in the
investigation of the cause, got a surprise which was not altogether agreeable.  Some of the
paths there are on very narrow ridges, and the snow on these ridges often overhangs them. 
I chanced to be walking in advance of my guide at the time to which I refer, and amused myself
as I went along by driving my alpenstock deep into the snow, when suddenly, to my amazement
I sent the end of the staff right through the snow, and, on withdrawing it, looked down into
space!  I had actually walked over the ridge altogether, and was standing above an abyss some
thousands of feet deep!"

"Horrible!" exclaimed Emma.  "You jumped off pretty quickly, I dare say."

"Nay, I walked off with extreme caution; but I confess to having felt a sort of cold shudder
with which my frame had not been acquainted previously."

While they were thus conversing, a cloud passed overhead and sent down a slight shower of snow.
To most of the party this was a matter of indifference, but the man of science soon changed
their feelings by drawing attention to the form of the flakes.  He carried a magnifying glass
with him, which enabled him to show their wonders more distinctly. It was like a shower of
frozen flowers of the most delicate and exquisite kind.  Each flake was a flower with six leaves.
Some of the leaves threw out lateral spines or points, like ferns, some were rounded, others
arrowy, reticulated, and serrated; but, although varied in many respects, there was no variation
in the number of leaves.

"What amazin' beauty in a snowflake," exclaimed the Captain, "many a one I've seen without
knowin' how splendid it was."

"The works of God are indeed wonderful," said the Professor, "but they must be `sought out'--examined
with care--to be fully understood and appreciated."

"Yet there are certain philosophers," observed Lewis, "who hold that the evidence of design
here and elsewhere does not at all prove the existence of God.  They say that the crystals
of these snow-flakes are drawn together and arrange themselves by means of natural forces."

"They say truly," replied the Professor, "but they seem to me to stop short in their reasoning.
They appear to ignore the fact that this elemental original force of which they speak must
have had a Creator. However far they may go back into mysterious and incomprehensible elements,
which they choose to call `blind forces,' they do not escape the fact that matter cannot have
created itself; that behind their utmost conceptions there must still be One non-created, eternal,
living Being who created all, who upholds all, and whom we call God."

Descending again from the heights in order to cross a valley and gain the opposite mountain,
our ramblers quitted the glacier, and, about noon, found themselves close to a lovely pine-clad
knoll, the shaded slopes of which commanded an unusually fine view of rocky cliff and fringing
wood, with a background of glacier and snow-flecked pinnacles.

Halting, accidentally in a row, before this spot they looked at it with interest.  Suddenly
the Professor stepped in front of the others, and, pointing to the knoll, said, with twinkling
eyes--

"What does it suggest?  Come, dux (to Slingsby, who happened to stand at the head of the line),
tell me, sir, what does it suggest?"

"I know, sir!" exclaimed the Captain, who stood at the dunce's extremity of the line, holding
out his fist with true schoolboy eagerness.

"It suggests," said the artist, rolling his eyes, "`a thing of beauty;' and--"

"Next!" interrupted the Professor, pointing to Lawrence.

"I know, sir," shouted the Captain.

"Hold your tongue, sir!"

"Ay, ay, sir."

"It is suggestive," said Lawrence, "of an oasis in the desert."

"Very poor, sir," said the Professor, severely.  "Next."

"It suggests a cool shade on a hot day," said Emma.

"Better, but not right.  Next."

"Please, sir, I'd rather not answer," said Lewis, putting his forefinger in his mouth.

"You must, sir."

"I know, sir," interrupted Captain Wopper, shaking his fist eagerly.

"Silence, you booby!--Well, boy, what does it suggest to you?"

"Please, sir," answered Lewis, "it suggests the mole on your professorial cheek."

"Sir," cried the Professor, sternly, "remind me to give you a severe caning to-night."

"Yes, sir."

"Well, booby, what have you got to say to it?"

"Wittles!" shouted the Captain.

"Right," cried the Professor, "only it would have been better expressed had you said--Luncheon.
Go up, sir; put yourself at the head of the class, and lead it to a scene of glorious festivity."

Thus instructed, the Captain put himself at the head of the line.

"Now, then, Captain," said Lewis, "let's have a true-blue nautical word of command--hoist yer
main tops'l sky-scrapers abaft the cleat o' the spanker boom, heave the main deck overboard
and let go the painter--or something o' that sort."

"Hold on to the painter, you mean," said Slingsby.

"You're both wrong," cried the Captain, "my orders are those of the immortal Nelson--`Close
action, my lads--England expects every man to'-- hooray!"

With a wild cheer, and waving his hat, the seaman rushed up the side of the knoll, followed
by his obedient and willing crew.

In order to render the feast more complete, several members of the party had brought small
private supplies to supplement the cold mutton, ham, bread, and light claret which Antoine
and two porters had carried in their knapsacks.  Captain Wopper had brought a supply of variously
coloured abominations known in England by the name of comfits, in Scotland as sweeties.  These,
mixed with snow and water, he styled "iced-lemonade."  Emma tried the mixture and declared
it excellent, which caused someone to remark that the expression of her face contradicted her
tongue.  Lewis produced a small flask full of a rich dark port-winey liquid, which he said
he had brought because it had formerly been one of the most delightful beverages of his childish
years.  It was tasted with interest and rejected with horror, being liquorice water!  Emma
produced a bottle of milk, in the consumption of which she was ably assisted by the Professor,
who declared that his natural spirits required no artificial stimulants.  The Professor himself
had not been forgetful of the general good.  He had brought with him a complex copper implement,
which his friends had supposed was a new species of theodolite, but which turned out to be
a scientific coffee-pot, in the development of which and its purposes, as the man of science
carefully explained, there was called into play some of the principles involved in the sciences
of hydraulics and pneumatics, to which list Lewis added, in an under-tone, those of aquatics,
ecstatics, and rheumatics.  The machine was perfect, but the Professor's natural turn for practical
mechanics not being equal to his knowledge of other branches of science, he failed properly
to adjust a screw.  This resulted in an explosion of the pot which blew its lid, as Lewis expressed
it, into the north of Italy, and its contents into the fire. A second effort, using the remains
of the scientific pot as an ordinary kettle, was more successful.

"You see, my friends," said the Professor, apologetically, "it is one of the prerogatives of
science that her progress cannot be hindered.  Her resources and appliances are inexhaustible.
When one style of experiment fails we turn at once to another and obtain our result, as I now
prove to you by handing this cup of coffee to Miss Gray.  You had better not sweeten it, Mademoiselle.
It is quite unnecessary to make the very trite observation that in your case no sugar is required.
Yes, the progress of science is slow, but it is sure.  Everything must fall before it in time."

"Ah, just so--`one down, another come on,'--that's your motto, ain't it?" said Captain Wopper,
who invariably, during the meal, delivered his remarks from a cavern filled with a compound
of mutton, bread, and ham. "But I say, Professor, are you spliced?"

"Spliced?" echoed the man of science.

"Ay; married, I mean."

"Yes, I am wed," he replied, with enthusiasm.  "I have a beautiful wife in Russia, and she
is good as beautiful."

"In Roosia--eh!  Well, it's a longish way off, but I'd advise you, as a friend, not to let
her know that you pay such wallopin' compliments to young English ladies.  It might disagree
with her, d'ye see?"

At this point the conversation and festivities were interrupted by Slingsby, who, having gone
off to sketch, had seated himself on a mound within sight of his friends, in a position so
doubled up and ridiculous as to call forth the remark from Lawrence, that few traits of character
were more admirable and interesting than those which illustrated the utter disregard of personal
appearance in true and enthusiastic devotees of art.  To which Captain Wopper added that "he
was a rum lot an' no mistake."

The devotee was seen by the revellers to start once or twice and clap his hands to various
pockets, as though he had forgotten his india-rubber or pen-knife.  Then he was observed to
drop his sketching-book and hastily slap all his pockets, as if he had forgotten fifty pieces
of india-rubber and innumerable pen-knives.  Finally, he sprang up and slapped himself all
over wildly, yelling at the same time as if he had been a maniac.

He had inadvertently selected an ant-hill as his seat, that was all; but that was sufficient
to check his devotion to art, and necessitate his retirement to a rocky defile, where he devoted
himself to the study of "the nude" in his own person, and whence he returned looking imbecile
and hot.

Such contretemps, however, do not materially affect the health or spirits of the young and
strong.  Ere long Slingsby was following his companions with his wonted enthusiasm and devotee-like
admiration of Nature in all her varying aspects.

His enthusiasm was, however, diverted from the study of vegetable and mineral, if we may so
put it, to that of animal nature, for one of the porters, who had a tendency to go poking his
staff into holes and crannies of the rocks, suddenly touched a marmot.  He dropped his pack
and began at once to dig up earth and stones as fast as possible, assisted by his comrades;
but the little creature was too sagacious for them.  They came to its bed at last, and found
that, while they had been busy at one end of the hole, the marmot had quietly walked out at
the other, and made off.

Having pushed over the valley, and once more ascended to the regions of perpetual ice, the
ramblers determined to "attack"--as the phrase goes among Alpine climbers--a neighbouring summit.
It was not a very high one, and Emma declared that she was not only quite able, but very anxious,
to attempt it.  The attempt was, therefore, made, and, after a couple of hours of pretty laborious
work, accomplished.  They found themselves on a pinnacle which overlooked a large portion of
the ice-world around Mont Blanc.  While standing there, one or two avalanches were observed,
and the Professor pointed out that avalanches were not all of one character.  Some, he said,
were composed of rock, mud, and water; others entirely of ice; many of them were composed of
these elements mixed, and others were entirely of snow.

"True, Monsieur," observed the guide, "and the last kind is sometimes very fatal.  There was
one from which my wife and child had a narrow escape.  They were visiting at the time a near
relation who dwelt in a village in a valley not far distant from this spot.  Behind the village
there is a steep slope covered with pines; behind that the mountain rises still more steeply.
The little forest stands between that village and destruction.  But for it, avalanches would
soon sweep the village away; but wood is not always a sure protector.  Sometimes, when frost
renders the snow crisp and dry, the trees fail to check its descent.  It was so on the last
night of my wife's visit.  A brother was about to set off with her from the door of our relative's
house, when the snow began to descend through the trees like water.  It was like dry flour.
There was not much noise, merely a hissing sound, but it came down in a deluge, filled all
the houses, and suffocated nearly all the people in them.  My brother-in-law saw it in time.
He put his horse to full speed, and brought my dear wife and child away in safety, but his
own father, mother, and sister were lost.  We tried to reach their house the next day, but
could advance through the soft snow only by taking two planks with us, and placing one before
the other as we went along."

Soon after the ramblers had begun their return journey, they came to a slope which they thought
might be descended by sliding or "glissading." It was the first time that Emma had seen such
work, and she felt much inclined to try it, but was dissuaded by Antoine, who led her round
by an easier way.  At the foot of the slope they came to a couloir, or sloping gorge, so steep
that snow could not lie on it.  Its surface was, therefore, hard ice.  Although passable, Antoine
deemed it prudent not to cross, the more so that he observed some ominous obelisks of ice impending
at the top of the slope.

"Why not cross and let Emma see how we manage by cutting steps in the ice?" said Lewis.

He received a conclusive though unexpected answer from one of the obelisks above-mentioned,
which fell at the moment, broke into fragments, and swept the couloir from top to bottom with
incredible violence.

It is wonderful what a deal of experience is required to make foolish people wise!  Winthin
the next ten minutes this warning was forgotten, and Lewis led his cousin into a danger which
almost cost the lives of three of the party.

CHAPTER TWENTY.

RECORDS A SERIOUS EVENT.

Our ramblers had now reached a place where a great expanse of rock surface was exposed, and
the temptation to dilate on the action of glaciers proved too strong for the Professor.  He
therefore led those who were willing to follow to a suitable spot and pointed out the striations,
flutings, and polishings of the granite, which showed that in former ages the glacier had passed
there, although at that time it was far below in the valley.  The polishings, he said, were
caused by the ice slowly grinding over the surface of the rock, and the flutings and groovings
were caused, not by the ice itself, but by stones which were embedded in its under surface,
and which cut the solid granite as if with chisels.

Meanwhile, Lewis and Emma, having taken the opportunity to search for plants, had wandered
on a little in advance, and had come to another steep slope, which was, however, covered with
snow at its upper part. Below, where it became steeper, there was no snow, only pure ice, which
extended downwards to an immense distance, broken only here and there by a few rocks that cropped
through its surface.  It terminated in a rocky gorge, which was strewn thickly with debris
from above.

"Let us cross this," said Emma, with a look of glee, for she possessed an adventurous spirit.

"We'd better not," answered Lewis.  "The slope is very steep."

"True, O cautious cousin," retorted Emma, with a laugh, "but it is covered here with snow that
is soft and probably knee-deep.  Go on it, sir, and try."

Thus commanded, Lewis obeyed, and found that the snow was indeed knee-deep, and that there
was no possibility of their either slipping or falling, unless one were unusually careless,
and even in that case the soft snow would have checked anything like an involuntary glissade.

"Let me go first," said Lewis.

"Nay, I will go first," returned Emma, "you will follow and pick me up if I should fall."

So saying, she stepped lightly into the snow and advanced, while her companion stood looking
at her with a half-amused, half-anxious smile.

She had not made six steps, and Lewis was on the point of following, when he observed that
there was a crack across the snow just above where he stood, and the whole mass began to slide.
For a moment he was transfixed with horror.  The next he had sprung to his cousin's side and
seized her arm, shouting--

"Emma!  Emma! come back.  Quick!  It moves."  But poor Emma could not obey.  She would as soon
have expected the mountain itself to give way as the huge mass of snow on which she stood.
At first its motion was slow, and Lewis struggled wildly to extricate her, but in vain, for
the snow avalanche gathered speed as it advanced, and in its motion not only sank them to their
waists, but turned them helplessly round, thus placing Lewis farthest from the firm land. 
He shouted now with all the power of his lungs for help, while Emma screamed from terror.

Lawrence chanced to be nearest to them.  He saw at a glance what had occurred, and dashed down
the hill-side at headlong speed.  A wave was driving in front of the couple, who were now embedded
nearly to their armpits, while streams of snow were hissing all round them, and the mass was
beginning to rush.  One look sufficed to show Lawrence that rescue from the side was impossible,
but, with that swift power of perception which is aroused in some natures by the urgent call
to act, he observed that some yards lower down--near the place where the ice-slope began--
there was a rock near to the side in the track of the avalanche, which it divided.  Leaping
down to this, he sprang into the sliding flood a little above it, and, with a powerful effort,
caught the rock and drew himself upon it.  Next moment Emma was borne past out of reach of
his hand.  Lawrence rushed deep into the snow and held out his alpenstock. Emma caught it.
He felt himself turned irresistibly round, and a sick feeling of despair chilled his life-blood.
At the same moment a powerful hand grasped his collar.

"Hold on, Monsieur," cried Antoine, in a deep, yet encouraging voice, "I've got you safe."

As he spoke, Emma shrieked, "I cannot hold on!"

No wonder!  She had not only to resist the rushing snow, but to sustain the drag of Lewis,
who, as we have said, had been carried beyond his cousin, and whose only chance now lay in
his retaining hold of her arm. Ere the words had quite left her lips, Lewis was seen deliberately
to let go his hold and throw up his arm--it seemed as if waving it.

Next moment Emma was dragged on the rock, where she and her companions stood gazing in horror
as their companion was swept upon the ice-slope and carried down headlong.  The snow was by
this time whirled onward in a sort of mist or spray, in the midst of which Lewis was seen to
strike a rock with his shoulder and swing violently round, while parts of his clothing were
plainly rent from his body, but the painful sight did not last long.  A few seconds more and
he was hurled, apparently a lifeless form, among the debris and rocks far below.

Death, in such a case, might have been expected to be instantaneous, but the very element that
caused the poor youth's fall, helped to save him. During the struggle for life while clinging
to Emma's arm, the check, brief though it was, sufficed to allow most of the snow to pass down
before him, so that he finally fell on a comparatively soft bed; but it was clear that he had
been terribly injured, and, what made matters worse, he had fallen into a deep gorge surrounded
by precipices, which seemed to some of the party to render it quite impossible to reach him.

"What is to be done?" exclaimed Lawrence, with intense anxiety.  "He must be got at immediately.
Delay of treatment in his case, even for a short time, may prove fatal."

"I know it, Monsieur," said Antoine, who had been quietly but quickly uncoiling his rope. 
"One of the porters and I will descend by the precipices.  They are too steep for any but well-accustomed
hands and feet.  You, Monsieur, understand pretty well the use of the axe and rope.  Cut your
way down the ice-slope with Jacques.  He is a steady man, and may be trusted.  Run, Rollo (to
the third porter), and fetch aid from Gaspard's chalet.  It is the nearest.  I need not say
make haste."

These orders were delivered in a low, rapid voice.  The men proceeded at once to obey them.
At the same time Antoine and his comrade swung themselves down the cliffs, and were instantly
lost to view.  The young porter, whom he had named Rollo, was already going down the mountain
at a smart run, and Jacques was on the ice-slope wielding his axe with ceaseless energy and
effect, while Lawrence held the rope to which he was attached, and descended the rude and giddy
staircase behind him.

It was a terrible time for those who were left above in a state of inaction and deep anxiety,
but there was no help for it.  They had to content themselves with watching the rescue, and
praying for success.

It was not long before the guide and porter reached the spot where poor Lewis lay.  He was
not insensible, but a deadly pallor overspread his scarred face, and the position in which
he lay betokened utter helplessness.  He could scarcely speak, but whispered that he fancied
he was not so much hurt as might have been expected, and expressed wonder at their having been
so long in reaching him.

The guide spoke to him with the tenderness of a woman.  He knew well how severely the poor
youth was injured, and handled him very delicately while making such preliminary arrangements
as were in his power.  A few drops of brandy and water were administered, the poor limbs were
arranged in a position of greater comfort, and the torn rags of clothing wrapped round him.

Soon they were joined by Lawrence, who merely whispered a few kind words, and proceeded at
once to examine him.  His chief anxiety was as to the amount of skin that had been destroyed.
The examination revealed a terrible and bloody spectacle; over which we will draw a veil; yet
there was reason to believe that the amount of skin torn off and abraded was not sufficient
to cause death.  Lawrence was comforted also by finding that no bones appeared to have been broken.

Nothing could be done in the way of attempting a removal until the return of Rollo with a litter.
Fortunately this was not long of being brought, for the young porter was active and willing,
and Gaspard had promptly accompanied him with men and materials for the rescue.

But it was a sad, slow, and painful process, to bear the poor youth's frame from that savage
gorge, and convey him on a litter, carried by four men, over glaciers and down rugged mountain
sides, even although done by tender hearts and strong hands.  Everything that ingenuity could
contrive was done to relieve the sufferer, and when at last, after weary hours, they reached
the high-road of the valley, a carriage was found waiting.  A messenger had been sent in advance
to fetch it, and Mrs Stoutley was in it.

There was something quite touching in the quiet, firm air of self-restraint with which she
met the procession, and afterwards tended her poor boy; it was so unlike her old character!

The sun was setting in a field of golden glory when they carried Lewis into the hotel at Chamouni,
and laid him on his bed--a mere wreck of his former self.

CHAPTER TWENTY ONE.

DOWN IN THE MORAINE AT LAST.

As the reader may suppose, the terrible accident to Lewis Stoutley put an end to further merry-making
among our friends at Chamouni.  Mrs Stoutley would have left for England at once if that had
been possible, but Lewis could not be moved for several weeks.  At first indeed, fears were
entertained for his life, but his constitution being good, and not having been damaged by dissipation,
he rallied sooner than might have been expected, although it was evident from the beginning
that complete restoration could not be looked for until many months, perhaps years, had passed
away.

We need scarcely say, that the rapid improvement of his health was largely due to the tender
watchful care of his mother.

Since visiting Switzerland, that excellent lady's spirit had undergone a considerable change.
Without going minutely into particulars, we may say that the startling events which had occurred
had been made the means of opening her spiritual eyes.  It had occurred to her--she scarce
knew how or why--that her Creator had a claim on her for more consideration than she had been
in the habit, heretofore, of testifying by a few formalities on Sundays; that there must be
some higher end and aim in life than the mere obtaining and maintaining of health, and the
pursuit of pleasure; and that as there was a Saviour, whom she professed on Sundays to follow,
there must be something real from which she had to be saved, as well as something real that
had to be done.  Sin, she knew, of course, was the evil from which everybody had to be saved;
but, being a good-natured and easy-going woman, she really did not feel much troubled by sin.
Little weaknesses she had, no doubt, but not half so many as other people she knew of.  As
to anything seriously worthy the name of sin, she did not believe she had any at all.  It had
never, until now, occurred to her that the treating of her best Friend, during a lifetime,
with cool and systematic indifference, or with mere protestations, on Sundays, of adoration,
was probably as great a sin as she could commit.

Her thoughts on these points she did not at first mention to any one, but she received great
help and enlightenment, as well as comfort, from the quiet sensible talk of Dr Lawrence, as
he sat day after day, and hour after hour, at the bedside of his friend, endeavouring to cheer
his spirits as well as to relieve his physical pain--for Lawrence was well fitted to do both.

He was not by any means what is styled a sermoniser.  He made no apparent effort to turn conversation
into religious channels.  Indeed we believe that when men talk with the unrestrained freedom
of true friendship, conversation needs no directing.  It will naturally flow along all channels,
and into all the zigzags and crevices of human thought--religion included.  Lewis was in great
pain and serious danger. Lawrence was a man full of the Holy Spirit and love to Jesus.  Out
of the fullness of his heart his mouth spoke when his friend appeared to desire such converse;
but he never bored him with any subject--for it is possible to be a profane, as well as a religious,
bore!

As soon as Lewis could turn his mind to anything, after his being brought back to the hotel,
he asked earnestly after Nita Horetzki.

"She has left," said Mrs Stoutley.

"Left!  D'you mean gone from Chamouni, mother?" exclaimed Lewis, with a start and a look of
anxiety which he did not care to conceal.

"Yes, they went yesterday.  Nita had recovered sufficiently to travel, and the medical man
who has been attending her urged her removal without delay.  She and her father seemed both
very sorry to leave us, and left kind messages for you.  The Count wanted much to see you,
but we would not allow it."

"Kind messages for me," repeated Lewis, in a tone of bitterness, "what sort of messages?"

"Well, really, I cannot exactly remember," returned Mrs Stoutley, with a slight smile, "the
kind of messages that amiable people might be expected to leave in the circumstances, you know--regret
that they should have to leave us in such a sad condition, and sincere hope that you might
soon recover, etcetera.  Yes, by the way, Nita also, just at parting, expressed a hope--an
earnest hope--that we might meet again. Poor dear thing, she is an extremely affectionate girl,
and quite broke down when saying good-bye."

"D'you know where they have gone to, mother?"

"No.  They mean to move about from place to place, I believe."

"Nita said nothing about writing to you, did she?"

"Did they leave any address--a poste restante--anywhere, or any clew whatever as to their whereabouts?"

"None whatever."

So then, during the weary days of suffering that he knew full well lay before him, poor Lewis
had no consolatory thought in regard to Nita save in her expressed "earnest hope" that they
might meet again.  It was not much, but it was better than nothing.  Being an ingenious as
well as daring architect, Lewis built amazing structures on that slight foundation--structures
which charmed his mental eyes to look upon, and which, we verily believe, tended to facilitate
his recovery--so potent is the power of true love!

"Captain Wopper," said Mrs Stoutley one morning, towards the end of their stay in Switzerland,
Lewis having been pronounced sufficiently restored to travel homeward by easy stages, "I have
sent for you to ask you to do me a favour--to give me your advice--your--"

Here, to the Captain's amazement, not to say consternation, Mrs Stoutley's voice trembled,
and she burst into tears.  If she had suddenly caught him by the nose, pulled his rugged face
down and kissed it, he could not have been more taken aback.

"My dear madam," he stammered, sitting down inadvertently on Mrs Stoutley's bonnet--for it
was to the good lady's private dressing-room that he had been summoned by Gillie White--"hold
on! don't now, please! What ever have I done to--"

"You've done nothing, my dear Captain," said Mrs Stoutley, endeavouring to check her tears.
"There, I'm very foolish, but I can't help it. Indeed I can't."

In proof of the truth of this assertion she broke down again, and the Captain, moving uneasily
on his chair, ground the bonnet almost to powder--it was a straw one.

"You have been a kind friend, Captain Wopper," said Mrs Stoutley, drying her eyes, "a very
kind friend."

"I'm glad you think so, ma'am; I've meant to be--anyhow."

"You have, you have," cried Mrs Stoutley, earnestly, as she looked through her tears into the
seaman's rugged countenance, "and that is my reason for venturing to ask you now to trouble
yourself with--with--"

There was an alarming symptom here of a recurrence of "squally weather," which caused the Captain
to give the bonnet an "extra turn," but she recovered herself and went on--

"With my affairs.  I would not have thought of troubling you, but with poor Lewie so ill, and
Dr Lawrence being so young, and probably inexperienced in the ways of life, and Emma so innocent
and helpless, and--in short I'm--hee!--that is to say--ho dear!  I am so silly, but I can't--indeed
I can't--hoo-o-o!"

It blew a regular gale now, and a very rain of straw debris fell through the cane-bottomed
chair on which the Captain sat, as he vainly essayed to sooth his friend by earnest, pathetic,
and even tender adjurations to "clap a stopper upon that," to "hold hard," to "belay", to "shut
down the dead-lights of her peepers," and such-like expressive phrases.

At length, amid many sobs, the poor lady revealed the overwhelming fact that she was a beggar;
that she had actually come down to her last franc; that her man of business had flatly declined
to advance her another sovereign, informing her that the Gorong mine had declared "no dividend;"
that the wreck of her shattered fortune had been swallowed up by the expenses of their ill-advised
trip to Switzerland, and that she had not even funds enough to pay their travelling expenses
home; in short that she was a miserable boulder, at the lowest level of the terminal moraine!

To all this Captain Wopper listened in perfect silence, with a blank expression on his face
that revealed nothing of the state of feeling within.

"Oh!  Captain Wopper," exclaimed the poor lady anxiously, "surely-- surely you won't forsake
me!  I know that I have no claim on you beyond friendship, but you have always given us to
understand that you were well off, and I merely wish to borrow a small sum.  Just enough, and
no more.  Perhaps I may not be able to repay you just immediately, but I hope soon; and even
if it came to the worst, there is the furniture in Euston Square, and the carriage and horses."

Poor Mrs Stoutley!  She was not aware that her man of business had already had these resources
appraised, and that they no more belonged to her at that moment than if they had been part
of the personal estate of the celebrated man in the moon.

Still the Captain gazed at her in stolid silence.

"Even my personal wardrobe," proceeded Mrs Stoutley, beginning again to weep, "I will gladly dis--"

"Avast!  Madam," cried the Captain, suddenly, thrusting his right hand into his breeches-pocket,
and endeavouring to drag something therefrom with a series of wrenches that would have been
terribly trying to the bonnet, had its ruin not been already complete, "don't talk to me of
repayment.  Ain't I your--your--husband's brother's buzzum friend-- Willum's old chum an' messmate?
See here."

He jerked the chair (without rising) close to a table which stood at his elbow, and placed
thereon a large canvas bag, much soiled, and tied round the neck with a piece of rope-yarn,
which smelt of tar even at a distance.  This was the Captain's purse.  He carried it always
in his right trouser-pocket, and it contained his gold.  As for such trifling metal as silver,
he carried that loose, mixed with coppers, bits of tobacco, broken pipes, and a clasp-knife,
in the other pocket.  He was very fond of his purse.  In California he had been wont to carry
nuggets in it, that simple species of exchange being the chief currency of the country at the
time he was there.  Some of the Californian debris had stuck to it when he had filled it, at
a place of exchange in London, with Napoleons.  Emptying its glittering contents upon the table,
he spread it out.

"There, madam," he said, with a hearty smile, "you're welcome to all I've got about me just
at this moment, and you shall have more when that's done.  Don't say `not so much,' cause it
ain't much, fifty pound, more or less, barrin' the nuggets, which I'll keep, as I dessay they
would only worry you, and there's plenty more shot in the locker where that come from; an'
don't talk about payin' back or thankin' me.  You've no occasion to thank me.  It's only a
loan, an' I'll hold Willum, your brother-in-law, responsible.  You wouldn't decline to take
it from Willum, would you?"

"Indeed no; William Stout has always been so kind to us--kinder than I have deserved."

"Well, then, I'll write to Willum.  I'll say to him, `Willum, my boy, here's your brother's
widdy bin caught in a squall, had her sails blown to ribbons, bin throw'd on her beam-ends,
and every stick torn out of her.  You've got more cash, Willum, than you knows what to do with,
so, hand over, send me a power of attorney (is that the thing?) or an affydavy--whatever lawyer's
dockiments is required--an' I'll stand by and do the needful.'  An' Willum 'll write back,
with that power an' brevity for which he is celebrated,--`Wopper, my lad, all right; fire away.
Anything short o' ten thousand, more or less.  Do yer w'ust. Yours to command,

"`Willum.'"

There was no resisting such arguments.  Mrs Stoutley smiled through her tears as she accepted
the money.  Captain Wopper rose, crammed the empty canvas bag into his pocket, and hastily
retired, with portions of the bonnet attached to him.

"Susan," said Mrs Stoutley, on the maid answering her summons, "we shall start for London tomorrow,
or the day after, so, pray, set about packing up without delay."

"Very well, ma'am," replied Susan, whose eyes were riveted with an expression of surprised
curiosity on the cane-bottomed chair.

"It is my bonnet Susan," said the lady, looking in the same direction with a sad smile.  "Captain
Wopper sat down on it by mistake.  You had better remove it."

To remove it was a feat which even Susan, with all her ready wit and neatness of hand, could
not have accomplished without the aid of brush and shovel.  She, therefore, carried it off
chair and all, to the regions below, where she and Gillie went into convulsions over it.

"Oh!  Susan," exclaimed the blue spider, "wot would I not have given to have seed him a-doin'
of it!  Only think!  The ribbons, flowers, and straw in one uniwarsal mush!  Wot a grindin'
there must ave bin!  I heer'd the Purfesser the other day talkin' of wot he calls glacier-haction--how
they flutes the rocks an' grinds in a most musical way over the boulders with crushin' wiolence;
but wot's glacier haction to that?"

Susan admitted that it was nothing; and they both returned at intervals in the packing, during
the remainder of that day, to have another look at the bonnet-debris, and enjoy a fresh explosion
over it.

CHAPTER TWENTY TWO.

MYSTERIOUS PROCEEDINGS OF THE CAPTAIN AND GILLIE.

We are back again in London--in Mrs Roby's little cabin at the top of the old tenement in Grubb's
Court.

Captain Wopper is there, of course.  So is Mrs Roby.  Gillie White is there also, and Susan
Quick.  The Captain is at home.  The two latter are on a visit--a social tea-party.  Little
Netta White, having deposited Baby White in the mud at the lowest corner of the Court for greater
security, is waiting upon them--a temporary handmaiden, relieving, by means of variety, the
cares of permanent nursehood.  Mrs White is up to the elbows in soap-suds, taking at least
ocular and vocal charge of the babe in the mud, and her husband is--"drunk, as usual?" No--there
is a change there.  Good of some kind has been somewhere at work.  Either knowingly or unwittingly
some one has been "overcoming evil with good," for Mrs White's husband is down at the docks
toiling hard to earn a few pence wherewith to increase the family funds.  And who can tell
what a terrible yet hopeful war is going on within that care-worn, sin-worn man?  To toil hard
with shattered health is burden enough.  What must it be when, along with the outward toil,
there is a constant fight with a raging watchful devil within?  But the man has given that
devil some desperate falls of late.  Oh, how often and how long he has fought with him, and
been overcome, cast down, and his armoury of resolutions scattered to the winds!  But he has
been to see some one, or some one has been to see him, who has advised him to try another kind
of armour--not his own.  He knows the power of a "new affection" now.  Despair was his portion
not long ago.  He is now animated by Hope, for the long uncared-for name of Jesus is now growing
sweet to his ear.  But the change has taken place recently, and he looks very weary as he toils
and fights.

"Well, mother," said Captain Wopper, "now that I've given you a full, true, an' partikler account
of Switzerland, what d'ee think of it?"

"It is a strange place--very, but I don't approve of people risking their lives and breaking
their limbs for the mere pleasure of getting to the top of a mountain of ice."

"But we can't do anything in life without riskin' our lives an' breakin' our limbs more or
less," said the Captain.

"An' think o' the interests of science," said Gillie, quoting the Professor.

Mrs Roby shook her tall cap and remained unconvinced.  To have expected the old nurse to take
an enlightened view on that point would have been as unreasonable as to have looked for just
views in Gillie White on the subject of conic sections.

"Why, mother, a man may break a leg or an arm in going down stairs," said the Captain, pursuing
the subject; "by the way, that reminds me to ask for Fred Leven.  Didn't I hear that he broke
his arm coming up his own stair?  Is it true?"

"True enough," replied Mrs Roby.

"Was he the worse of liquor at the time?"

"No.  It was dark, and he was carrying a heavy box of something or other for his mother.  Fred
is a reformed man.  I think the sight of your poor father, Gillie, has had something to do
with it, and that night when his mother nearly died.  At all events he never touches drink
now, and he has got a good situation in one of the warehouses at the docks."

"That's well," returned the Captain, with satisfaction.  "I had hopes of that young feller
from the night you mention.  Now, mother, I'm off. Gillie and I have some business to transact
up the water.  Very particular business--eh, lad?"

"Oh! wery partickler," said Gillie, responding to his patron's glance with a powerful wink.

Expressing a hope that Susan would keep Mrs Roby company till he returned, the Captain left
the room with his usual heavy roll, and the spider followed with imitative swagger.

Captain Wopper was fond of mystery.  Although he had, to some extent made a confidant of the
boy for whom he had taken so strong a fancy, he nevertheless usually maintained a dignified
distance of demeanour towards him, and a certain amount of reticence, which, as a stern disciplinarian,
he deemed to be essential.  This, however, did not prevent him from indulging in occasional,
not to say frequent, unbendings of disposition, which he condescended to exhibit by way of
encouragement to his small protege; but these unbendings and confidences were always more or
less shrouded in mystery.  Many of them, indeed, consisted of nothing more intelligible than
nods, grins, and winks.

"That'll be rather a nice cottage when it's launched," said the Captain, pointing to a building
in process of erection, which stood so close to the edge of the Thames that its being launched
seemed as much a literal allusion as a metaphor.

"Raither bobbish," assented the spider.

"Clean run fore and aft with bluff bows, like a good sea-boat," said the Captain.  "Come, let's
have a look at it."

Asking permission to enter of a workman who granted the same with, what appeared to Gillie,
an unnecessarily broad grin, the Captain led the way up a spiral staircase.  It bore such a
strong resemblance to the familiar one of Grubb's Court that Gillie's eyes enlarged with surprise,
and he looked involuntarily back for his soapy mother and the babe in the mud.  There were,
however, strong points of dissimilarity, inasmuch as there was no mud or filth of any kind
near the new building except lime; and the stair, instead of leading like that of the Tower
of Babel an interminable distance upwards, ended abruptly at the second floor. Here, however,
there was a passage exactly similar to the passage leading to Mrs Roby's cabin, save that it
was well lighted, and at the end thereof was an almost exact counterpart of the cabin itself.
There was the same low roof, the same little fireplace, with the space above for ornaments,
and the same couple of little windows looking out upon a stretch of the noble river, from which
you might have fished.  There was the same colour of paint on the walls, which had been so
managed as to represent the dinginess of antiquity.  There was also, to all appearance, Mrs
Roby's own identical bed, with its chintz curtains. Here, however, resemblance ended, for there
was none of the Grubb's Court dirt.  The craft on the river were not so large or numerous,
the reach being above the bridges.  If you had fished you not have hooked rats or dead cats,
and if you had put your head out and looked round, you would have encountered altogether a
clean, airy, and respectable neighbourhood, populous enough to be quite cheery, with occasional
gardens instead of mud-banks, and without interminable rows of tall chimney-pots excluding
the light of heaven.

Gillie, not yet having been quite cured of his objectionable qualities, at once apostrophised
his eye and Elizabeth Martin.

"As like as two peas, barrin' the dirt!"

The Captain evidently enjoyed the lad's astonishment.

"A ship-shape sort o' craft, ain't it?  It wouldn't be a bad joke to buy it--eh?"

Gillie, who was rather perplexed, but too much a man of the world to disclose much of his state
of mind, said that it wouldn't be a bad move for any feller who had got the blunt.  "How much
would it cost now?"

"A thousand pounds, more or less," said the Captain, with discreet allowance for latitude.

"Ha! a goodish lump, no doubt."

"I've half a mind to buy it," continued the Captain, looking round with a satisfied smile.
"It would be an amoosin' sort o' thing, now, to bring old Mrs Roby here.  The air would be
fresher for her old lungs, wouldn't it?"

Gillie nodded, but was otherwise reticent.

"The stair, too, wouldn't be too high to get her down now and again, and a boat could be handy
to shove her into without much exertion.  For the matter of that," said the Captain, looking
out, "we might have a slide made, like a Swiss couloir, you know, and she could glissade comfortably
into the boat out o' the winder.  Then, there's a beam to hang her ship an' Chinee lanterns
from, an' a place over the fireplace to stick her knick-knacks.  What d'ee think, my lad?"

Gillie, who had begun to allow a ray of light to enter his mind, gave, as his answer, an emphatic
nod and a broad grin.

The Captain replied with a nod and a wink, whereupon the other retired behind his patron, for
the purpose of giving himself a quiet hug of delight, in which act, however, he was caught;
the Captain being one who always, according to his own showing, kept his weather-eye open.

"W'y, what's the matter with you, boy?"

"Pains in the stummick is aggrawatin' sometimes," answered Gillie.

"You haven't got 'em, have you?"

"Well, I can't exactly go for to say as I has," answered Gillie, with another grin.

"Now, look 'ee here, youngster," said the Captain, suddenly seizing the spider by his collar
and trousers, and swinging him as though about to hurl him through the window into the river,
"if you go an' let your tongue wag in regard to this matter, out you go, right through the
port-hole--d'ee see?"

He set the spider quietly on his legs again, who replied, with unruffled coolness--

"Mum's the word, Cappen."

Gillie had been shorn of his blue tights and brass buttons, poor Mrs Stoutley having found
it absolutely necessary, on her return home, to dismiss all her servants, dispose of all her
belongings, and retire into the privacy of a poor lodging in a back street.  Thus the spider
had come to be suddenly thrown on the world again, but Captain Wopper had retained him, he
said, as a mixture of errand-boy, cabin-boy, and powder-monkey, in which capacity he dwelt
with his mother during the night and revolved like a satellite round the Captain during the
day.  A suit of much more appropriate pepper-and-salt had replaced the blue tights and buttons.
Altogether, his tout-ensemble was what the Captain styled "more ship-shape."

We have said that Mrs Stoutley and her family had made a descent in life.  As poor Lewis remarked,
with a sad smile, they had quitted the gay and glittering heights, and gone, like a magnificent
avalanche, down into the moraine.  Social, not less than physical, avalanches multiply their
parts and widen their course during descent.  The Stoutleys did not fall alone.  A green-grocer,
a shoemaker, and a baker, who had long been trembling, like human boulders, on the precipice
of bankruptcy, went tumbling down along with them, and found rest in a lower part of the moraine
than they had previously occupied.

"It's a sad business," said Lewis to Dr Lawrence one morning; "and if you continue to attend
me, you must do so without the most distant prospect of a fee."

"My dear fellow," returned Lawrence, "have you no such thing as gratitude in your composition?"

"Not much, and, if I had ever so much, it would be poor pay."

"Poor, indeed, if regarded as one's only source of livelihood," rejoined Lawrence, "but it
is ample remuneration from a friend, whether rich or poor, and, happily, capable of being mixed
with pounds, shillings and pence without deterioration.  In the present case, I shall be more
than rejoiced to take the fee unmixed, but, whether fee'd or not fee'd, I insist on continuing
attendance on a case which I have a right to consider peculiarly my own."

"It would have been a bad case, indeed, but for you," returned Lewis, a flush for a moment
suffusing his pale cheek as he took his friend's hand and squeezed it.  "I am thoroughly convinced,
Lawrence, that God's blessing on your skill and unwearied care of me at the time of the accident
is the cause of my being alive to thank you to-day.  But sit down, my dear fellow, and pray
postpone your professional inquiries for a little, as I have something on my mind which I wish
to ask you about."

Lawrence shook his head.  "Business first, pleasure afterwards," he said; "professional duties
must not be postponed."

"Now," said Lewis when he had finished, "are you satisfied?  Do you admit that even an unprofessional
man might have seen at a glance that I am much better, and that your present draft on my gratitude
is a mere swindle?"

"I admit nothing," retorted the other; "but now, what have you got to say to me?"

"I am going to make a confidant of you.  Are you to be trusted?"

"Perhaps; I dare not say yes unconditionally, because I'm rather sociable and communicative,
and apt to talk in my sleep."

"That will do.  Your answer is sufficiently modest.  I will venture. You know Captain Wopper,
I mean, you are well acquainted with his character; well, that kind and eccentric man has made
a proposal to my dear mother, which we do not like to accept, and which at the same time we
do not quite see our way to refuse.  My mother, when in great distress in Switzerland, was
forced to borrow a small sum of money from him, and thought it right to justify her doing so
by letting him know-- what everybody, alas! may know now--that we were ruined.  With that ready
kindness which is his chief characteristic he at once complied. Since our return home he has,
with great delicacy but much determination, insisted that we shall accept from him a regular
weekly allowance until we have had time to correspond with our uncle Stout in California. 
`You mustn't starve,' he said to my mother--I give you his own words--`and you'd be sure to
starve if you was to try to wegitate for six months or so on atmospheric air.  It'll take that
time before you could get a letter from Willum, an' though your son Lewis could an' would,
work like a nigger to keep your pot bilin' if he was well an' hearty, it's as plain as the
nose on your own face, ma'am, that he can't work while he's as thin as a fathom of pump-water
an' as weak as a babby.  Now, you know-at least I can tell 'ee--that my old chum Willum is
as rich as a East Injin nabob.  You wouldn't believe, madam, what fortins some gold-diggers
have made.  W'y, I've seed men light their pipes with fi'-pun' notes for a mere brag out there.
I've made a goodish lump o' money myself too,--a'most more than I know what to do with, an'
as to Willum, I may say he's actooally rollin' in gold.  He's also chockfull of regard for
you and yours, ma'am.  That bein' so, he's sure to send you somethin' to tide you over yer
difficulties, an' he's also sure to send somethin' to Lewis to help him start fair when he
gits well, and he's surest of all to send somethin' to Miss Emma for all the kind letters she's
writ to him doorin' the last five or six years. Well, then, I'm Willum's buzzum friend, and,
knowin' exactly what he'll say an' do in the circumstances, what more nat'ral an' proper than
that Willum's chum should anticipate Willum's wishes, and advance the money-- some of it at
least--say three thousand pounds to start with.'  Now, Lawrence," continued Lewis, "what should
we do?  Should we accept this offer?  The good fellow has evidently made a great deal of money
at the gold-fields, and no doubt speaks truly when he says he can afford to advance that sum.
And we know our uncle William's character well enough, though we have never seen him, to be
quite sure that he will assist my dear mother until I am able to support her.  What say you?"

"Accept the offer at once," said Lawrence.  "From what I have seen of the Captain, I am convinced
that he is a warm friend and a genuine man. No doubt he can well afford to do what he proposes,
and his opinion of William Stout's character is just, for, from what I know of him through
Mrs Roby, who knew him when he was a lad, when his life was saved by my father, he must have
a kind heart."

"I have no doubt of it, Lawrence, and a grateful heart too, if I may judge from a few words
that fell from Captain Wopper about your father and yourself."

"Indeed! what did he say about us?"

"I have no right to repeat observations dropped inadvertently," said Lewis, with a laugh.

"Nor to raise curiosity which you don't mean to satisfy," retorted his friend; "however, my
advice is, that you accept the Captain's offer, and trust to your uncle's generosity."

CHAPTER TWENTY THREE.

THE CAPTAIN SURPRISES HIS FRIENDS IN VARIOUS WAYS, AND IS HIMSELF BAFFLED.

Time and Tide passed on--as they are proverbially said to do--without waiting for any one.
Some people in the great city, aware of this cavalier style of proceeding on the part of Time
and Tide, took advantage of both, and scaled the pinnacled heights of society.  Others, neglecting
their opportunities, or misusing them, produced a series of avalanches more or less noteworthy,
and added a few more boulders to the vast accumulations in the great social moraine.

Several of the actors in this tale were among those who, having learnt a few sharp lessons
in the avalanche school, began to note and avail themselves of Time and Tide--notably, Mrs
Stoutley and her son and niece.  A decided change had come over the spirit of Mrs Stoutley's
dream of life.  She had at last visited the great London moraine, especially that part of it
called Grubb's Court, and had already dug up a few nuggets and diamonds, one of which latter
she brought to her humble home in the back street, with the design of polishing it into a good
servant-maid.  Its name was Netta White.  Mrs Stoutley had formerly been a spendthrift; now
she was become covetous.  She coveted the male diamond belonging to the same part of the moraine--once
named the Spider, alias the Imp--but Captain Wopper had dug up that one for himself and would
not part with it.  Gradually the good lady conceived and carried out the idea of digging out
and rescuing a number of diamonds, considerably lower in the scale than the Netta type, training
them for service, and taking pains to get them into good situations.  It was hard work no doubt,
but Mrs Stoutley persevered, and was well repaid--for the Master of such labourers esteems
them "worthy of their hire."  Emma assisted in the work most heartily.  It was by no means
new to her.  She might have directed if she had chosen, but she preferred to follow.

Lewis recovered rapidly--so rapidly that he was soon able to resume his medical studies and
prosecute them with vigour.  No bad effects of the accident remained, yet he was an altered
man--not altered in appearance or in character, but in spirit.  He was still off-hand in manner,
handsome in face and figure, hearty in society, but earnest and grave-- very grave--in private.
He pored over his books, and strove, successfully too, to master the difficulties of the healing
art; but do what he would, and fight against it as he might, he was constantly distracted by
a pretty face with bright sparkling eyes and a strangely sad expression coming between him
and the page.  He made continual inquiries after the owner of the sparkling eyes in every direction
without success, and at last got into the habit when walking, of looking earnestly at people
as if he expected to meet with some one.  "If I had got into this state," he sometimes said
to himself, "because of being merely in love with a pretty face, I should consider myself a
silly nincompoop; but it is such a terrible thing for so sweet and young a creature to be chained
to a man who must in the nature of things, land her in beggary and break her heart."  Thus
he deceived himself as to his main motive.  Poor Lewis!

One morning Captain Wopper got up a little earlier than usual, and began a series of performances
which Mrs Roby had long ago styled "rampadgin" round his garret.

The reader may have discovered by this time that the Captain was no ordinary man.  Whatever
he did in connection with himself was done with almost superhuman energy and noise.  Since
the commencement of his residence in the garret he had unwittingly subjected the nerves of
poor Mrs Roby to such a variety of shocks, that the mere fact of her reason remaining on its
throne was an unquestionable proof of a more than usually powerful constitution.  It could
not well be otherwise.  The Captain's limbs resembled the limbs of oaks in regard to size and
toughness.  His spirits were far above "proof."  His organs were cathedral organs compared
with the mere barrel-organs of ordinary men. On the other hand, the "cabin" in Grubb's Court
was but a flimsy tenement; its plank floorings were thin, and its beams and rafters slim and
somewhat loose owing to age, so that when the captain snored, which he did regularly and continuously,
it was as if a mastiff had got inside a double-bass and were growling hideously.

But Mrs Roby had now got pretty well accustomed to her lodger's ways. Her nerves had become
strung to the ordeal, and she even came to like the galvanic battery in which she dwelt, because
of its being worked by the intimate friend of her dear William; such is the power of love--we
might almost say, in this case, of reflected love!  The good old lady had even become so acute
in her perceptions, that, without seeing the "rampadger," she knew precisely the part of his
daily programme with which he happened to be engaged.  Of course the snoring told its own tale
with brazen-tongued clamour, and the whole tenement trembled all night long from top to bottom.
Nothing but the regardless nature of the surrounding population prevented the Captain from
being indicted as a nuisance; but there were other sounds that were not so easily recognised.

On the morning in question, Mrs Roby, lying placidly in her neat white little bed, and gazing
with a sweet contented face through one of her cabin windows at the bright blue sky, heard
a sound as though a compound animal--hog and whale--had aroused itself and rolled over on its
other side.  A low whistling followed.  Mrs Roby knew that the Captain was pleasantly engaged
with his thoughts--planning out the proceedings of the day.  Suddenly the whistling ceased
and was followed by a sonorous "how-ho!" terminating in a gasp worthy of an express locomotive.
The Captain had stretched himself and Mrs Roby smiled at her own thoughts, as well she might
for they embraced the idea that a twentieth part of the force employed in that stretch would
have rent in twain every tendon, muscle, sinew, and filament in her, Mrs Roby's, body.  Next,
there descended on the floor overhead a sixteen-stone cannon ball, which caused--not the neighbours,
but the boards and rafters to complain.  The Captain was up! and succeeding sounds proved that
he had had another stretch, for there was a bump in the middle of it which showed that, forgetting
his stature, the careless man had hit the ceiling with his head.  That was evidently a matter
of no consequence.

From this point the boards and rafters continued to make unceasing complaint, now creaking
uneasily as if under great provocation, anon groaning or yelling as though under insufferable
torment.  From the ceiling of Mrs Roby's room numerous small bits of plaster, unable to stand
it longer, fell and powdered Mrs Roby's floor.  The curtains of her little bed saved her face.
There was a slushing and swishing and gasping and blowing now, which might have done credit
to a school of porpoises.  The Captain was washing.  Something between the flapping of a main
top-sail in a shifting squall and the currying of a hippopotamus indicated that the Captain
was drying himself.  The process was interrupted by an unusual, though not quite unknown, crash
and a howl; he had overturned the wash-hand basin, and a double thump, followed by heavy dabs,
told that the Captain was on his knees swabbing it up.

Next instant the Captain's head, with beard and hair in a tremendously rubbed-up condition,
appeared upside down at the hatchway.

"Hallo! old girl, has she sprung a leak anywhere?"

"Nowhere," replied Mrs Roby, with a quiet smile.  She felt the question to be unnecessary.
"She," that is, the roof above her, never did leak in such circumstances.  If the Thames had
suddenly flooded the garret, the Captain's energy was sufficient to have swabbed it up in time
to prevent a drop reaching "the lower deck."

Soon after this catastrophe there was a prolonged silence.  The Captain was reading.  Mrs Roby
shut her eyes and joined him in spirit. Thereafter the Captain's feet appeared at the trap
where his head had been, and he descended with a final and tremendous crash to the floor.

"See here, mother," he cried, with a look of delight, holding up a very soiled and crumpled
letter, "that's from Willum."

"From William," exclaimed the old woman, eagerly; "why, when did you get it? the postman can't
have been here this morning."

"Of course he hasn't; I got it last night from the limb-o'-the-law that looks after my little
matters.  I came in late, and you were asleep, so I kep' it to whet yer appetite for breakfast.
Now listen, you must take it first; I'll get you breakfast afterwards."

The Captain had by this time got into the way of giving the old woman her breakfast in bed
every morning.

"Go on," said the old woman, nodding.

The Captain spread out the letter on his knee with great care, and read aloud:--

  "My Dear Wopper, Got yer letter all right.

  "My blissin' to the poor widdy.  Help her? ov coorse I'll help her.
  You did right in advancin' the money, though you fell short, by a long
  way, when you advanced so little.  Hows'ever, no matter.  I gave you
  my last will an' testimony w'en we parted.  Here's a noo un.  Inside
  o' this, if I don't forget it before I've done, you'll find a cheque
  for thirteen thousand pounds sterling.  Give three to the widdy, with
  my respects; give four to dear Emma Gray, with my best love and
  blissin'; give two to Mister Lewis, with my compliments; an' give four
  to young Lawrence, with my benediction, for his father's sake.  As for
  the old 'ooman Roby, you don't need to give nothin' to her.  She and I
  understand each other.  I'll look after her myself.  I'll make her
  my residooary legatee, an' wotever else is needful; but, in the
  meantime, you may as well see that she's got all that she wants.
  Build her a noo house too.  I'm told that Grubb's Court ain't exactly
  aristocratic or clean; see to that.  Wotever you advance out o' yer
  own pocket, I'll pay back with interest.  That's to begin with, tell
  'em.  There's more comin'.  There--I'm used up wi' writin' such a long
  screed.  I'd raither dig a twenty-futt hole in clay sile any day.--
  Yours to command, Willum.

  "P.S.--You ain't comin' back soon--are you?"

"Now, mother, what d'ee think o' that?" said the Captain, folding the letter and putting it
in his pocket.

"It's a good, kind letter--just like William," answered the old woman.

"Well, so I'm inclined to think," rejoined the Captain, busying himself about breakfast while
he spoke; "it provides for everybody in a sort o' way, and encourages 'em to go on hopeful
like--don't it strike you so? Then, you see, that's four to Miss Emma, and four to Dr Lawrence,
which would be eight, equal to four hundred a year; and that, with the practice he's gettin'
into, would make it six, or thereabouts--not bad to begin with, eh?"

The Captain followed his remark with a sigh.

"What's the matter?" asked Mrs Roby.

"Why, you remember, mother, before goin' abroad I set my heart on these two gettin' spliced;
but I fear it's no go.  Sometimes I think they looks fond o' one another, at other times I
don't.  It's a puzzler. They're both young an' good-lookin' an' good.  What more would they have?"

"Perhaps they want money," suggested the old woman.  "You say Dr Lawrence's income just now
is about two hundred; well, gentlefolks find it summat difficult to keep house on that, though
it's plenty for the likes of you an' me."

"That's true.  P'r'aps the Doctor is sheerin' off for fear o' draggin' a young creeter into
poverty.  It never struck me in that light before."

Beaming under the influence of this hopeful view of the case, the Captain proceeded to make
another move in the complicated game which he had resolved to play out and win; but this move,
which he had considered one of the easiest of all, proved to be the most unfortunate, or rather
unmanageable.

"Now, mother," said he, "I mean to make a proposal to 'ee, before going out for the day, so
that you may have time to think over it.  This cabin o' yours ain't just the thing, you know,--raither
dirty, and too high in the clouds by a long way, so I've bin an' seen a noo house on the river,
not unlike this one, an' I wants you to shift your berth.  What say 'ee--eh?"

To the Captain's surprise and dismay, the old woman shook her head decidedly, and no argument
which he could bring to bear had the least effect on her.  She had, in fact, got used to her
humble old home, and attached to it, and could not bear the thought of leaving it.  Having
exhausted his powers of suasion in vain, he left her to think over it, and sallied forth crestfallen.
However, he consoled himself with the hope that time and consideration would bring her to a
right state of mind.  Meanwhile he would go to the parties interested, and communicate the
contents of Willum's letter.

He went first to Doctor Lawrence, who was delighted as well as pleased at what it contained.
The Captain at first read only the clauses which affected his friends the Stoutleys, and said
nothing about that which referred to the Doctor himself.

"So you see, Doctor, I'm off to let the Stoutleys know about this little matter, and just looked
in on you in passing."

"It was very kind of you, Captain."

"Not at all, by no means," returned the Captain, pulling out a large clasp-knife, with which
he proceeded carefully to pare his left thumb nail.  "By the way, Doctor," he said carelessly,
"were you ever in love?"

Lawrence flushed, and cast a quick glance at his interrogator, who, however, was deeply engaged
with the thumb nail.

"Well, I suppose men at my time of life," he replied, with a laugh, "have had some--"

"Of course--of course," interrupted the other, "but I mean that I wonder a strapping young
fellow like you, with such a good practice, don't get married."

The Doctor, who had recovered himself, laughed, and said that his good practice was chiefly
among the poor, and that even if he wished to marry--or rather, if any one would have him--he
would never attempt to win a girl while he had nothing better than two hundred a year and prospects
to offer her.

"Then I suppose you would marry if you had something better to offer," said the Captain, finishing
off the nail and shutting the clasp-knife with a snap.

Again the Doctor laughed, wondered why the Captain had touched on such a theme, and said that
he couldn't exactly say what he might or might not do if circumstances were altered.

The Captain was baffled.  However, he said that circumstances were altered, and, after reading
over the latter part of Willum's letter, left Lawrence to digest it at his leisure.

We need not follow him on his mission.  Suffice it to say that he carried no small amount of
relief to the minds of Mrs Stoutley and her household; and, thereafter, met Gillie by appointment
at Charing Cross, whence he went to Kensington to see a villa, with a view to purchasing it.

At night he again essayed to move Mrs Roby's resolution, and many a time afterwards attacked
her, but always with the same result. Although, as he said, he fought like a true-blue British
seaman, and gave her broadside after broadside as fast as he could load and fire, he made no
impression on her whatever.  She had nailed her colours to the mast and would never give in.

CHAPTER TWENTY FOUR.

IN WHICH TREMENDOUS FORCES COME TO THE CAPTAIN'S AID.

It is probable that most people can recall occasions when "circumstances" have done for them
that which they have utterly failed to effect for themselves.

Some time after the failure of Captain Wopper's little plots and plans in regard to Mrs Roby,
"circumstances" favoured him--the wind shifted round, so to speak, and blew right astern. 
To continue our metaphor, it blew a tremendous gale, and the Captain's ends were gained at
last only by the sinking of the ship!

This is how it happened.  One afternoon the Captain was walking rather disconsolately down
the Strand in company with his satellite--we might almost say, his confidant.  The street was
very crowded, insomuch that at one or two crossings they were obliged to stand a few minutes
before venturing over,--not that the difficulty was great, many active men being seen to dodge
among the carts, drays, vans, and busses with marvellous ease and safety, but the Captain was
cautious.  He was wont to say that he warn't used to sail in such crowded waters--there warn't
enough o' sea room for him--he'd rather lay-to, or stand--off-an'-on for half a day than risk
being run down by them shore-goin' crafts.

"Everything in life seems to go wrong at times," muttered the Captain, as he and the satellite
lay-to at one of these crossings.

"Yes, it's coorious, ain't it, sir," said Gillie, "an' at other times everything seems to go
right--don't it, sir?"

"True, my lad, that's a better view to take of it," returned the Captain, cheerfully, "come,
we'll heave ahead."

As they were "heaving" along in silence, the rattle and noise around them being unsuited to
conversation, they suddenly became aware that the ordinary din of the Strand swelled into a
furious roar.  Gillie was half way up a lamp-post in an instant! from which elevated position
he looked down on the Captain, and said--

"A ingine!"

"What sort of a ingine, my lad?"

"A fire! hooray!" shouted Gillie, with glittering eyes and flushed countenance, "look out,
Cappen, keep close 'longside o' me, under the lee o' the lamp-post.  It's not a bad buffer,
though never quite a sure one, bein' carried clean away sometimes by the wheels w'en there's
a bad driver."

As he spoke, the most intense excitement was manifested in the crowded thoroughfare.  Whips
were flourished, cabmen shouted, horses reared, vehicles of all kinds scattered right and left
even although there had seemed almost a "block" two seconds before.  Timid foot passengers
rushed into shops, bold ones mounted steps and kerb-stones, or stood on tip-toe, and the Captain,
towering over the crowd, saw the gleam of brass helmets as the charioteer clove his way through
the swaying mass.

There is something powerfully exciting to most minds in the sight of men rushing into violent
action, especially when the action may possibly involve life and death.  The natural excitement
aroused in the Captain's breast was increased by the deep bass nautical roar that met his ear.
Every man in the London fire-brigade is, or used to be, a picked man-of-war's-man, and the
shouting necessary in such a thoroughfare to make people get out of the way was not only tremendous
but unceasing. It was as though a dozen mad "bo's'ns," capped with brazen war-helmets, had
been let loose on London society, through which they tore at full gallop behind three powerful
horses on a hissing and smoking monster of brass and iron.  A bomb shell from a twenty-five-ton
gun could scarce have cut a lane more effectually.  The Captain took off his hat and cheered
in sympathy.  The satellite almost dropped from the lamp-post with excess of feeling.  The
crash and roar increased, culminated, rushed past and gone in a moment.

Gillie dropped to the ground as if he had been shot, seized the Captain's hand, and attempted
to drag him along.  He might as well have tried to drag Vesuvius from its base, but the Captain
was willing.  A hansom-cab chanced to be in front of them as they dashed into the road, the
driver smoking and cool as a cucumber, being used to such incidents. He held up a finger.

"Quick, in with you, Cappen!"

Gillie got behind his patron, and in attempting to expedite his movements with a push, almost
sent him out at the other side.

"After the ingine--slap!" yelled Gillie to the face which looked down through the conversation-hole
in the roof, "double extra fare if you look sharp."

The cabman was evidently a sympathetic soul.  He followed in the wake of the fire-engine as
well as he could; but it was a difficult process, for, while the world at large made way for
it, nobody cared a straw for him!

"Ain't it fun?" said Gillie, as he settled his panting little body on the cushion beside his
friend and master.

"Not bad," responded the Captain, who half laughed at the thought of being so led away by excitement
and a small boy.

"I'd give up all my bright prospects of advancement in life," continued Gillie, "to be a fireman.
There's no fun goin' equal to a fire."

"P'r'aps it don't seem quite so funny to them as is bein' burnt out," suggested the Captain.

"Of course it don't, but that can't be helped, you know--can it, sir? What can't be cured must
be endoored, as the proverb says.  Get along, old fellow, don't spare his ribs--double fare,
you know; we'll lose 'em if you don't."

The latter part of the remark was shouted through the hole to the cabman, who however, pulled
up instead of complying.

"It's of no use, sir," he said, looking down at the Captain, "I've lost sight of 'em."

Gillie was on the pavement in a moment.

"Never mind, Cappen, give him five bob, an' decline the change; come along.  I see 'em go past
the Bridge, so ten to one it's down about the docks somewheres--the wust place in London for
a fire w'ich, of course, means the best."

The idea of its being so afforded such unalloyed pleasure to Gillie, that he found it hard
to restrain himself and accommodate his pace to that of his friend.

It soon became very evident that the fire was in truth somewhere about the docks, for not only
was a dense cloud of smoke seen rising in that direction, but fire-engines began to dash from
side streets everywhere, and to rush towards the smoke as if they were sentient things impatient
for the fray.

The cause of such unusual vigour and accumulation of power was, that a fire anywhere about
the docks is deemed pre-eminently dangerous, owing to the great and crowded warehouses being
stuffed from cellars to roof-trees with combustibles.  The docks, in regard to fire, form the
citadel of London.  If the enemy gets a footing there, he must be expelled at all hazards and
at any cost.

As the Captain and his protege hurried along, they were naturally led in the direction of their
home.  A vague undefined fear at the same instant took possession of both, for they glanced
gravely at each other without speaking, and, as if by mutual consent, began to run.  Gillie
had no need now to complain of his companion's pace.  He had enough to do to keep up with it.
There were many runners besides themselves now, for the fire was obviously near at hand, and
the entire population of the streets seemed to be pressing towards it.  A few steps more brought
them in sight of the head of Grubb's Court.  Here several fire-engines were standing in full
play surrounded by a swaying mass of human beings. Still there was no sign of the precise locality
of the fires for the tall houses hid everything from view save the dense cloud which overshadowed
them all.

Even Captain Wopper's great strength would have been neutralised in such a crowd if it had
not now been seconded by an excitement and anxiety that nothing could resist.  He crushed his
way through as if he had been one of the steam fire-engines, Gillie holding tight to the stout
tails of his monkey jacket.  Several powerful roughs came in his way, and sought to check him.
The Captain had hitherto merely used his shoulders and his weight.  To the roughs he applied
a fist--right and left--and two went down.  A few seconds brought him to the cordon of policemen.
They had seen him approaching, and one placed himself in front of the Captain with the quiet
air of a man who is accustomed never to give way to physical force!

"I live down Grubb's Court, my man," said the Captain, with an eager respectful air, for he
was of a law-abiding spirit.

The constable stepped aside, and nodded gravely.  The Captain passed the line, but Gillie was
pounced upon as if he had been a mouse and the constable a cat.

"He belongs to me," cried the Captain, turning back on hearing Gillie's yell of despair.

The boy was released, and both flew down the Court, on the pavement of which the snake-like
water-hose lay spirting at its seams.

"It's in the cabin," said the Captain, in a low deep voice, as he dashed into the Court, where
a crowd of firemen were toiling with cool, quiet, yet tremendous energy.  No crowd interrupted
them here, save the few frantic inhabitants of the Court, who were screaming advice and doing
nothing; but no attention whatever was paid to them.  A foreman of the brigade stood looking
calmly upwards engaged in low-toned conversation with a brother fireman, as if they were discussing
theories of the picturesque and beautiful with special application to chimney-cans, clouds
of smoke, and leaping tongues of fire.

Immense engine power had been brought to bear, and one of the gigantic floating-engines of
the Thames had got near enough to shower tons of water over the buildings, still it was a matter
of uncertainty whether the fire could be confined to the Court where it had originated.

The result of the foreman's quiet talk was that the brother-fireman suddenly seized a nozzle
from a comrade, and made a dash at the door leading up to "the cabin."  Flames and smoke drove
him back instantly.

It was at this moment that Captain Wopper came on the scene.  Without a moment's hesitation
he rushed towards the same door.  The foreman seized his arm.

"It's of no use, sir, you can't do it."

The Captain shook him off and sprang in.  A few seconds and he rushed out choking, scorched,
and with his eyes starting almost out of their sockets.

"It is of no use, sir," remonstrated the foreman, "besides, the people have all bin got out,
I'm told."

"No, they 'aven't," cried Mrs White, coming up at the moment, frantically wringing the last
article of linen on which she had been professionally engaged, "Mrs Roby's there yet."

"All right, sir," said the foreman, with that quiet comforting intonation which is peculiar
to men of power, resource, and self-reliance, "come to the back.  The escape will be up immediately.
It couldn't get down the Court, owin' to some masonry that was piled there, and had to be sent
round."

Quick to understand, the Captain followed the fireman, and reached the back of the house, on
the riverside, just as the towering head of the escape emerged from a flanking alley.

"This way.  The small window on the right at the top--so."

The ladder was barely placed when the Captain sprang upon it and ran up as, many a time before,
he had run up the shrouds of his own vessel.  A cheer from the crowd below greeted this display
of activity, but it was changed into a laugh when the Captain, finding the window shut and
bolted, want into the room head first, carrying frame and glass along with him!  Divesting
himself of the uncomfortable necklace, he looked hastily round.  The smoke was pretty thick,
but not sufficiently so to prevent his seeing poor Mrs Roby lying on the floor as if she had
fallen down suffocated.

"Cheer up, old lass," he cried, kneeling and raising her head tenderly.

"Is that you, Cappen?" said the old woman, in a weak voice.

"Come, we've no time to lose.  Let me lift you; the place is all alight. I thought you was choked."

"Choked! oh dear, no," replied the old woman, "but I've always heard that in a fire you should
keep your face close to the ground for air-- Ah! gently, Cappen, dear!"

While she was speaking, the Captain was getting her tucked under his strong right arm.  He
could have whisked her on his shoulder in a moment, but was afraid of her poor old bones, and
treated her as if she had been a fragile China tea-cup of great value.

Next moment he was out on the escape, and reached the ground amid ringing cheers.  He carried
her at once to the nearest place of safety, and, committing her to the care of Mrs White, rushed
back to the scene of conflagration just as they were about to remove the escape.

"Stop!" shouted the Captain, springing on it.

"There's nobody else up, is there?" cried a fireman, as the Captain ran up.

"No, nobody."

"Come down then, directly," roared the fireman, "the escape is wanted elsewhere.  Come down,
I say, or we'll leave you."

"You're welcome to leave me," roared the Captain, as he stepped into the window, "only hold
your noise, an' mind your own business."

With a mingled feeling of amusement and indignation they hurried away with the escape.  It
had been urgently wanted to reach a commanding position whence to assail the fire.  The order
to send it was peremptory, so the Captain was left in his uncomfortable situation, with the
smoke increasing around him, and the fire roaring underneath.

The actions of our seaman were now curious as well as prompt.  Taking a blanket from his old
friend's bed, he spread it below the chimney-piece, and in a remarkably short time pulled down,
without damaging, every object on the wall and threw it into the blanket.  He tied all up in
a tight bundle.  A coil of rope hung on a peg on the wall.  The bundle was fastened to the
end of it and lowered to the ground, amid a fire of remarks from the crowd, which were rather
caustic and humorous than complimentary.

"Gillie," shouted the Captain, "cast off the rope, lad, and look well after the property."

"Ay, ay, Cappen," replied the youth, taking up a thick cart-pin, or something of the sort,
that lay near, and mounting guard.

There was another laugh, from crowd and firemen, at the nautical brevity and promptitude of Gillie.

At every large fire in London there may be seen a few firemen standing about in what an ignorant
spectator might imagine to be easy indifference and idleness, but these men are not idlers.
They are resting.  The men who first arrive at a fire go into action with the utmost vigour,
and toil until their powers are nearly--sometimes quite-- exhausted.  As time passes fresh
men are continually arriving from the more distant stations.  These go into action as they
come up, thus relieving the others, who stand aloof for a time looking on, or doing easy work,
and recruiting their energies.  It was these men who watched the Captain's proceedings with
much amusement while their comrades were doing battle with the foe.

Presently the Captain reappeared at the window and lowered a huge sea-chest.  A third time
he appeared with the model of a full-rigged ship in his hand.  This time he let the end of
the rope down, and then getting over the window, slid easily to the ground.

"You're uncommon careful o' your property," exclaimed one of the onlookers, with a broad grin.

"'Taint all my property, lad," replied the Captain, with a good-humoured nod, "most of it is
a poor old 'ooman's belongings."

So saying, he got a man to carry his sea-chest, himself shouldered the bundle, Gillie was intrusted
with the full-rigged model, and thus laden they left the scene followed by another laugh and
a hearty cheer.

But our bluff seaman was not content with rescuing Mrs Roby and her property.  He afterwards
proceeded to lend his effective aid to all who desired his assistance, and did not cease his
exertions until evening, by which time the fire was happily subdued.

"She must not be moved to-night Captain," said Dr Lawrence, for whom Gillie had been sent;
"the place where she lies is doubtless far from comfortable, but I have got her to sleep, and
it would be a pity to awake her.  To-morrow we shall get her into more comfortable quarters."

"Could she bear movin' to-morrow, a mile or so?" asked the Captain.

"Certainly, but there is no occasion to go so far.  Lodgings are to be had--"

"All right, Doctor; I've got a lodging ready for her, and will ask you to come an' have pot-luck
with us before long.  Gillie, my lad, you go hail a cab, and then come back to lend a hand
wi' the cargo."

In a few minutes the pair were whirling towards the west end of London, and were finally landed
with their "cargo" on the banks of the Thames above the bridges, near the new building which
Captain Wopper had named, after its prototype, "the cabin."

To fit this up after the fashion of the old place was a comparatively short and easy work for
two such handy labourers.  Before they left that night it was so like its predecessor in all
respects, except dirt, that both declared it to be the "identical same craft, in shape and
rig, even to the little bed and curtains."  Next afternoon Mrs Roby was brought to it by Captain
Wopper, in a specially easy carriage hired for the purpose.

The poor old woman had received more of a shock than she was willing to admit, and did exactly
as she was bid, with many a sigh, however, at the thought of having been burnt out of the old
home.  She was carried up the stair in a chair by two porters, and permitted the Captain to
draw a thick veil over her head to conceal, as he said, her blushes from the men.  He also
took particular care to draw the curtains of the bed close round her after she had been laid
in it and then retired to allow her to be disrobed by Netta, who had been obtained from Mrs
Stoutley on loan expressly for the occasion.

Much of this care to prevent her seeing the place that day, however, was unnecessary.  The
poor old creature was too much wearied by the short journey to look at anything.  After partaking
of a little tea and toast she fell into a quiet sleep, which was not broken till late on the
following morning.

Her first thought on waking was the fire.  Her second, the Captain.  He was in the room, she
knew, because he was whistling in his usual low tone while moving about the fireplace preparing
breakfast.  She glanced at the curtains; her own curtains certainly,--and the bed too!  Much
surprised, she quietly put out her thin hand and drew the curtain slightly aside.  The Captain
in his shirt sleeves, as usual, preparing buttered toast, the fireplace, the old kettle with
the defiant spout singing away as defiantly as ever, the various photographs, pot-lids, and
other ornaments above the fireplace, the two little windows commanding an extensive prospect
of the sky from the spot where she lay, the full-rigged ship, the Chinese lantern hanging from
the beam-- everything just as it should be!

"Well, well," thought Mrs Roby, with a sigh of relief; "the fire must have been a dream after
all! but what a vivid one!"

She coughed.  The Captain was at her side instantly.

"Slept well, old girl?"

"Very well, thank you.  I've had such a queer dream, d'you know?"

"Have you?  Take your breakfast, mother, before tellin' it.  It's all ready--there, fire away."

"It was such a vivid one," she resumed, when half through her third cup, "all about a fire,
and you were in it too."

Here she proceeded to relate her dream with the most circumstantial care.  The Captain listened
with patient attention till she had finished, and then said--

"It was no dream, mother.  It's said that the great fire of London was a real blessin' to the
city.  The last fire in London will, I hope, be a blessin' to you an' me.  It was real enough
and terrible too, but through God's mercy you have been saved from it.  I managed to save your
little odds and ends too.  This is the noo `cabin,' mother, that you wouldn't consent to come
to.  Something like the old one, ain't it?"

Mrs Roby spoke never a word, but looked round the room in bewilderment. Taking the Captain's
hand she kissed it, and gazed at him and the room until she fell asleep.  Awaking again in
half an hour, she finished her breakfast, asked for the old Bible, and, declaring herself content,
fell straightway into her old ways and habits.

CHAPTER TWENTY FIVE.

AN UNEXPECTED GEM FOUND.

Although Lewis Stoutley found it extremely difficult to pursue his studies with the profusely
illustrated edition of medical works at his command, he nevertheless persevered with a degree
of calm, steady resolution which might be almost styled heroic.  To tear out the illustrations
was impossible, for Nita's portrait was stamped on every page, compelling him to read the letterpress
through it.  Success, however, attended his labours, for he not only carried out the regular
course, but he attached himself to the poor district of the "moraine" which had been appropriated
as their own by his mother and Emma, who ministered to the bodies of the sick while they sought
to bring their souls to the Good Physician.  This professional work he did as a sort of amateur,
being only a student under the guidance of his friend Lawrence, whose extending practice included
that district.  It happened also to be the district in which Mrs Roby's new "cabin" was situated.

These labourers, in what Dr Tough had styled the London gold fields, not only did good to the
people, and to themselves in the prosecution of them, but resulted occasionally in their picking
up a nugget, or a diamond, which was quite a prize.  One such was found by Lewis about this
time, which, although sadly dim and soiled when first discovered, proved to be such a precious
and sparkling gem that he resolved to wear it himself.  He and Emma one day paid a visit to
the cabin, where they found old Mrs Roby alone, and had a long chat with her, chiefly about
the peculiarities of the Captain and his boy.

"By the way," said Mrs Roby to Lewis, when they rose to go, "a poor woman was here just before
you came, askin' if I knew where she could find a doctor, for her father, she said, was very
ill.  The two have come to live in a room near the foot of this stair, it seems, and they appear
to be very poor.  I could not give her Dr Lawrence's new address, for I don't know it, so I
advised her to apply to the nearest chemist.  Perhaps, Mr Lewis, you'll go yourself and see
the poor man?"

"Willingly, and I shall myself call for Lawrence on my way home and send him, if necessary.
Come, Emma.  Perhaps this may be a case for the exercise of your philanthropy."

They soon found the place, and knocked at a low door, which was slowly opened by a middle-aged
woman, meanly clad and apparently very poor.

"Ah, sir, you're too late, he's dead," said the woman, in reply to Lewis's inquiry.

"O how sad!" broke from Emma's sympathetic spirit, "I am so sorry we are too late.  Did you
find a doctor?"

"No, ma'am, I didn't, but the chemist gave me the address of one, so I ran back to tell the
poor young thing that I'd go fetch one as quick as I could, and I found him just dying in her
arms."

"In whose arms? are not you the daughter--" said Emma.

"Me, miss! oh dear, no.  I'm only a neighbour."

"Has she any friends?" asked Lewis.

"None as I knows of.  They are strangers here--only just came to the room.  There it is," she
added, stepping back and pointing to an inner door.

Lewis advanced and knocked, but received no answer.  He knocked again. Still no answer.  He
therefore ventured to lift the latch and enter.

It was a miserable, ill-lighted room, of small size and destitute of all furniture save a truckle
bed, a heap of clean straw in a corner, on which lay a black shawl, a deal chair, and a small
table.  Abject poverty was stamped on the whole place.  On the bed lay the dead man, covered
with a sheet.  Beside it kneeled, or rather lay, the figure of a woman.  Her dress was a soiled
and rusty black.  Her hair, fallen from its fastenings, hung dishevelled on her shoulders.
Her arms clasped the dead form.

"My poor woman," whispered Emma, as she knelt beside her, and put a hand timidly on her shoulder.

But the woman made no answer.

"She has fainted, I think," exclaimed Emma, rising quickly and trying to raise the woman's
head.  Suddenly Lewis uttered a great cry, lifted the woman in his arms, and gazed wildly into
her face.

"Nita!" he cried, passionately clasping her to his heart and covering the poor faded face with
kisses; but Nita heard not.  It seemed as if the silver chord had already snapped.  Becoming
suddenly aware of the impropriety as well as selfishness of his behaviour, Lewis hastily bore
the inanimate form to the heap of straw, pillowed the small head on the old shawl, and began
to chafe the hands while Emma aided him to restore consciousness.  They were soon successful.
Nita heaved a sigh.

"Now, Emma," said Lewis, rising, "this is your place just now, I will go and fetch something
to revive her."

He stopped for one moment at the bed in passing, and lifted the sheet. There was no mistaking
the handsome face of the Count even in death.  It was terribly thin, but the lines of sorrow
and anxiety were gone at last from the marble brow, and a look of rest pervaded the whole countenance.

On returning, Lewis found that Nita had thrown her arms round Emma's neck and was sobbing violently.
She looked up as he entered, and held out her hand.  "God has sent you," she said, looking
at Emma, "to save my heart from breaking."

Lewis again knelt beside her and put her hand to his lips, but he had no power to utter a word.
Presently, as the poor girl's eye fell on the bed, there was a fresh outburst of grief.  "Oh,
how he loved me!--and how nobly he fought!--and how gloriously he conquered!--God be praised
for that!"

She spoke, or rather sobbed, in broken sentences.  To distract her mind, if possible, even
for a little, from her bereavement, Emma ventured to ask her how she came there, when her father
became so ill, and similar questions.  Little by little, in brief sentences, and with many
choking words and tears, the sad story came out.

Ever since the night when her father met with Lewis at Saxon, he had firmly resisted the temptation
to gamble.  God had opened his ear to listen to, and his heart to receive, the Saviour.  Arriving
in London with the money so generously lent to them by Lewis, they took a small lodging and
sought for work.  God was faithful to His promises, she said; he had sent a measure of prosperity.
Her father taught music, she obtained needlework.  All was going well when her father became
suddenly ill.  Slowly but steadily he sank.  The teaching had to be given up, the hours of
labour with the needle increased.  This, coupled with constant nursing, began to sap her own
strength, but she had been enabled to hold out until her father became so ill that she dared
not leave him even for a few minutes to visit the shops where she had obtained sewing-work.
Then, all source of livelihood being dried up, she had been compelled to sell one by one the
few articles of clothing and furniture which they had begun to accumulate about them.

"Thus," she said, in conclusion, "we were nearly reduced to a state of destitution, but, before
absolute want had been felt by us, God mercifully took my darling father home--and--and--I
shall soon join him."

"Say not so, darling," said Emma, twining her arms round the poor stricken girl.  "It may be
that He has much work for you to do for Jesus here before He takes you home.  Meanwhile, He
has sent us to claim you as our very dear friend--as our sister.  You must come and stay with
mamma and me.  We, too, have tasted something of that cup of adversity, which you have drained
to the very dregs, my poor Nita, but we are comparatively well off now.  Mamma will be so glad
to have you.  Say you will come.  Won't you, dearest?"

Nita replied by lifting her eyes with a bewildered look to the bed, and again burst into a
passion of uncontrollable sorrow.

CHAPTER TWENTY SIX.

THE DENOUEMENT.

Being naturally a straightforward man, and not gifted with much power in the way of plotting
and scheming, Captain Wopper began in time to discover that he had plunged his mental faculties
into a disagreeable state of confusion.

"Gillie, my lad," he said, looking earnestly at his satellite while they walked one afternoon
along the Bayswater road in the direction of Kensington, "it's a bad business altogether."

Gillie, not having the smallest idea what the Captain referred to, admitted that it was "wery
bad indeed," but suggested that "it might be wuss."

"It's such a perplexin' state o' things," pursued the Captain, "to be always bouncin' up an'
down wi' hopes, an' fears, an' disappointments, like a mad barometer, not knowin' rightly what's
what or who's who."

"Uncommon perplexin'," assented Gillie.  "If I was you, Cappen, I'd heave the barometer overboard
along wi' the main-deck, nail yer colours to the mast, cram the rudder into the lee-scuppers,
kick up your flyin'-jib-boom into the new moon, an' go down stern foremost like a man!"

"Ha!" said the Captain, with a twinkle in the corner of his "weather-eye," "not a bad notion."

"Now, my lad, I'm goin' out to my villa at Kensington to dine.  There's to be company, too,
an' you're to be waiter--"

"Stooard, you mean?"

"Well, yes--stooard.  Now, stooard, you'll keep a good look-out, an' clap as tight a stopper
on yer tongue as may be.  I've got a little plot in hand, d'ee see, an' I want you to help
me with it.  Keep your eye in a quiet way on Dr Lawrence and Miss Gray.  I've taken a fancy
that perhaps they may be in love with each other.  You just let me have your opinion on that
pint after dinner, but have a care that you don't show what you're up to, and, whatever you
do, don't be cheeky."

"All right," said the stooard, thrusting both hands into his trouser-pockets; "I'll do my best."

While these two were slowly wending their way through Kensington Gardens, Emma Gray arrived
at the Captain's villa--California Cottage, he called it--and rang the bell.  The gate was
opened by Netta White, who, although not much bigger than when first introduced to the reader,
was incomparably more beautiful and smart.  Mrs Stoutley had reason to be proud of her.

"I did not know that you were to be here, Netta?" said Emma, in surprise, as she entered.

"It was a very sudden call, Miss," said Netta, with a smile.  "Captain Wopper wrote a note
to me, begging me to ask Mrs Stoutley to be so good as lend me to him for a day to help at
his house-warming.  Here is the letter, Miss."

Emma laughed as she glanced carelessly at the epistle, but became suddenly grave, turned white,
then red, and, snatching the letter from the girl's hand, gazed at it intently.

"La!  Miss, is anything wrong?"

"May I keep this?" asked Emma.

"Certainly, Miss, if you wish it."

Before she could say anything more, they were interrupted by the entrance of Dr Lawrence. 
With a surprised look and smile he said--

"I have been invited to dine with our friend Captain Wopper, but did not anticipate the pleasure
of meeting Miss Gray here."

Emma explained that she also had been invited to dine with the Captain, along with her mother
and brother, but had supposed that that was all the party, as he, the Captain, had mentioned
no one else, and had been particular in begging her to come an hour before the time, for the
purpose of going over his new villa with him, and giving him her private opinion of it.

"I am punctual," she added, consulting her watch; "it is just four o'clock."

"Four!  Then what is the dinner hour?"

"Five," answered Emma.

"The Captain's wits must have been wool-gathering," rejoined Lawrence, with a laugh.  "He told
me to come punctually at four.  However, I rejoice in the mistake, as it gives me the great
pleasure of assisting you to form an unprejudiced opinion of the merits of the new villa. Shall
we begin with an exploration of the garden?"

Emma had no cause to blush at such an innocent proposal, nevertheless a richer colour than
usual mantled on her modest little face as she fell in with the Doctor's humour and stepped
out into the small piece of ground behind the house.

It was of very limited extent and, although not surrounded too closely by other villas, was
nevertheless thoroughly overlooked by them, so that seclusion in that garden was impossible.
Recognising this fact, a former proprietor had erected at the lower end of the garden a bower
so contrived that its interior was invisible from all points except one, and that was a side
door to the garden which opened on a little passage by which coals, milk, meat, and similar
substances were conveyed from the front to the rear of the house.

Dr Lawrence and Emma walked round and round the garden very slowly, conversing earnestly. 
Strange to say, they quite forgot the object which had taken them there.  Their talk was solely
of Switzerland.  As it continued, the Doctor's voice deepened in tones and interest, and his
fair companion's cheek deepened in colour.  Suddenly they turned into the bower.  As they did
so, Gillie White chanced to appear at the garden door above referred to, which stood ajar.
The spider's countenance was a speaking one.  During the five minutes which it appeared in
the doorway, it, and the body belonging to it, became powerfully eloquent. It might have conveyed
to one's mind, as it were, a series of tableaux vivants.  Gillie's first look was as if he
had been struck dumb with amazement (that was Lawrence suddenly seizing one of Emma's hands
in both of his and looking intently into her face).  Then Gillie's look of amazement gave place
to one of intense, quite touching--we might almost say sympathetic--anxiety as he placed a
hand on each knee and stooped (that was the Doctor's right hand stealing round Emma's waist,
and Emma shrinking from him with averted face).  The urchin's visage suddenly lighted up with
a blaze of triumph, and he seized his cap as if about to cheer (that was the Doctor's superior
strength prevailing, and Emma's head, now turned the other way, laid on his shoulder).  All
at once Gillie went into quiet convulsions, grinned from ear to ear, doubled himself up, slapped
his thigh inaudibly--a la Captain Wopper--and otherwise behaved like an outrageous, yet self-restrained,
maniac (that was--well, we have no right to say what that was).  As a faithful chronicler,
however, we must report that one-half minute later the stooard found Captain Wopper in the
villa drawing-room, and there stated to him that it was "hall right; that he didn't need for
to perplex hisself about Doctor Lawrence and Miss Hemma Gray, for that they was as good as
spliced already, having been seen by him, Gillie, in the bower at the end of the garding a-blushin'
and a--" Here the spider stopped short and went into another fit of convulsions--this time
unrestrained.

Is it necessary to say that Captain Wopper sat at the foot of his own table that day--Mrs Stoutley
being at the head--with his rugged visage radiant and his powerful voice explosive; that he
told innumerable sea-stories without point, and laughed at them without propriety; that, in
the excess of his hilarity, he drank a mysterious toast to the success of all sorts of engagements,
present and future; that he called Mrs Stoutley (in joke) sister, and Emma and Lewis (also
in joke) niece and neffy; that he called Doctor Lawrence neffy, too, with a pointedness and
a sense of its being the richest possible joke, that covered with confusion the affianced pair;
and with surprise the rest of the company; that he kicked the stooard amicably out of the room
for indulging in explosions of laughter behind his chair, and recommending him, the Captain,
to go it strong, and to clap on sail till he should tear the mast out of 'er, or git blowed
on his beam-ends; that the stooard returned unabashed to repeat the offence unreproved; that
towards the end, the Captain began a long-winded graphic story which served to show how his
good friend and chum Willum Stout in Callyforny had commissioned him to buy and furnish a villa
for the purpose of presenting it to a certain young lady in token of his gratitood to her for
bein' such a good and faithful correspondent to him, Willum, while he was in furrin' parts;
also, how he was commissioned to buy and furnish another villa and present it to a certain
doctor whose father had saved him from drownin' long long ago, he would not say how long ago;
and how that this villa, in which they was feedin', was one of the said villas, and that he
found it quite unnecessary to spend any more of Willum's hard-earned gains in the purchase
of the other villa, owing to circumstances which had took place in a certain bower that very
day!  Is it necessary, we again ask, to detail all this?  We think not; therefore, we won't.

When reference was made to the bower, Emma could stand, or sit, it no longer.  She rose hastily
and ran blushing into the garden.  Captain Wopper uttered a thunderous laugh, rose and ran
after her.  He found her in the bower with her face in her hands, and sat down beside her.

"Captain Wopper," she suddenly exclaimed, looking up and drawing a note from her pocket, "do
you know this?"

"Yes, duckie," (the Captain was quite reckless now), "it's my last billy-doo to Netta White.
I never was good at pot-hooks and hangers."

"And do you know this letter?" said Emma, holding up to the seaman's eyes her uncle William's
last letter to herself.

The Captain looked surprised, then became suddenly red and confused.

"W'y--ye-es, it's Willum's, ain't it?"

"The same pot-hooks and hangers precisely!" said Emma, "are they not? Oh!" she exclaimed, throwing
her arms round the Captain's neck and kissing him, "uncle William, how could you deceive us so?"

The Captain, to use his own expressions, was taken aback--fairly brought up all standin'.

It had never occurred to his innocent mind that he should commit himself so simply.  He felt
an unconquerable objection to expressions of gratitude, and perceiving, with deep foresight
that such were impending, his first impulse was to rise and fly, but Emma's kiss made him change
his mind.  He returned it in kind but not in degree, for it caused the bower to resound as
with a pistol shot.

"Oh! wot a cracker, ain't it just? you're a nice man, ain't you, to go poachin' on other fellers--"

The Captain seized his opportunity, he broke from Emma and dashed wildly at the spider, who
incontinently fled down the conduit for coals, cheering with the fury of a victorious Ashantee
chief!

CHAPTER TWENTY SEVEN.

THE LAST.

Humbly confessing to Emma Gray that he had no talent whatever for plotting, Captain Wopper
went off with a deprecatory expression of countenance to reveal himself to Mrs Roby.  Great
was his anxiety.  He entered her presence like a guilty thing.  If, however, his anxiety was
great, his surprise and consternation were greater when she received his revelation with tears,
and for some time refused to be comforted!

The workings of the human mind are wonderful.  Sometimes they are, as the Captain said, bamboozling.
If analysed it might have been discovered that, apart altogether from the shock of unexpectedness
and the strain on her credulity, poor Mrs Roby suffered--without clearly understanding it--from
a double loss.  She had learned to love Captain Wopper for his own sake, and now Captain Wopper
was lost to her in William Stout!  On the other hand William, her darling, her smooth-faced
chubby boy, was lost to her for ever in the hairy savage Captain Wopper! It was perplexing
as well as heart-rending.  Captain Wopper was gone, because, properly, there was no such being
in existence.  William Stout was gone because he would never write to her any more, and could
never more return to her from California!

It was of no use that the Captain expressed the deepest contrition for the deception he had
practised, urging that he had done it "for the best;" the old woman only wept the more; but
when, in desperation, the Captain hauled taut the sheets of his intellect, got well to wind'ard
of the old 'ooman an' gave her a broadside of philosophy, he was more successful.

"Mother," he said, earnestly, "you don't feel easy under this breeze, 'cause why? you're entirely
on the wrong tack.  Ready about now, an' see what a change it'll make.  Look 'ee here.  You've
gained us both instead of lost us both.  Here am I, Willum Stout yours to command, a trifle
stouter, it may be, and hairier than I once was, not to say older, but by a long chalk better
able to love the old girl who took me in, an' befriended me when I was a reg'lar castaway,
with dirty weather brewin', an' the rocks o' destitootion close under my lee; and who'll never
forget your kindness, no never, so long as two timbers of the old hulk hold together.  Well
then, that's the view over the starboard bulwarks.  Cast your eyes over to port now.  Here
am I, Captain Wopper, also yours to command, strong as a horse, as fond o' you as if you was
my own mother, an' resolved to stick by you through thick and thin to the last.  So you see,
you've got us both--Willum an' me--me an' Willum, both of us lovin' you like blazes an' lookin'
arter you like dootiful sons.  A double tide of affection, so to speak, flowin' like strong
double-stout from the beer barrel out of which you originally drew me, if I may say so.  Ain't
you convinced?"

Mrs Roby was convinced.  She gave in, and lived for many years afterwards in the full enjoyment
of the double blessing which had thus fallen to her lot in the evening of her days.

And here, good reader, we might close our tale; but we cannot do so without a few parting words
in reference to the various friends in whose company we have travelled so long.

Of course it is unnecessary to say, (especially to our lady readers, who were no doubt quite
aware of it from the beginning), that Lawrence and Emma, Lewis and Nita, were, in the course
of time, duly married.  The love of their respective wives for each other induced the husbands
not only to dwell in adjoining villas, but to enter into a medical co-partnery, in the prosecution
of which they became professionally the deities, and, privately, the adored of a large population
of invalids-- with their more or less healthy friends--in the salubrious neighbourhood of Kensington.
To go about "doing good" was the business, and became the second nature, of the young doctors.
It was long a matter of great surprise to not a few of their friends that though Lawrence and
Lewis neither smoked nor drank, they were uncommonly healthy and apparently happy!  Some caustic
spirits asserted that they were sure budding wings were to be found on the shoulders of the
two doctors, but we are warranted in asserting, on the best authority, that on a strict examination,
nothing of the kind was discovered.  Need we say that Emma and Nita were pattern wives?  Of
course not, therefore we won't say it. Our reticence on this point will no doubt be acceptable
to those who, being themselves naughty, don't believe in or admire "patterns," even though
these be of "heavenly things."  It is astonishing, though, what an effect their so-called "perfection"
had in tightening the bonds of matrimony.  Furthermore, they had immense families of sons and
daughters, insomuch that it became necessary to lengthen their cords and strengthen their stakes,
and "Calyforny Villa" became a mere band-box compared to the mansions which they ultimately
called "home."

Mrs Stoutley having managed to get entirely out of herself--chiefly by means of the Bible and
the London gold-fields and moraines--became so amiable and so unlike her former self, and,
withal, so healthy and cheery, that the two great families of Stoutley and Lawrence went to
war for possession of her.

The feud at last threatened to become chronic, and was usually carried to an excess of virulence
about Christmas and New Year time.  In order, therefore, to the establishment of peace, Mrs
Stoutley agreed to live one-half of the year with Lewis, and the other half with Lawrence--Lewis
to have the larger half as a matter of course; but she retained her cottage in Notting Hill
and her maid Netta White, with the right to retire at any moment, when the exigencies of the
gold-fields or the moraines demanded special attention; or when the excess of juvenile life
in the mansions before mentioned became too much for her.  On these occasions of retirement
which, to say truth, were not very frequent, she was accompanied by Netta White--for Netta
loved her mistress and clave to her as Ruth to Naomi.  Being a native of the "fields," she
was an able and sympathetic guide and adviser at all times, and nothing pleased Netta better
than a visit to Grubb's Court, for there she saw the blessed fruit of diamond and gold digging
illustrated in the person of her own reformed father and happy mother, who had removed from
their former damp rooms on the ground floor to the more salubrious apartments among the chimney
pots, which had been erected on the site of the "cabin" after "the fire."  Directly below them,
in somewhat more pretentious apartments, shone another rescued diamond in the person of Fred
Leven.  He was now the support and comfort of his old mother as well as of a pretty little
young woman who had loved him even while he was a drunkard, and who, had it been otherwise
decreed, would have gone on loving him and mourning over him and praying for him till he was
dead.  In her case, however, the mourning had been turned into joy.

In process of time Gillie White, alias the spider, became a sturdy, square-set, active little
man, and was promoted to the position of coachman in the family of Lewis Stoutley.  Susan Quick
served in the same family in the capacity of nurse for many years, and, being naturally thrown
much into the society of the young coachman, was finally induced to cement the friendship which
had begun in Switzerland by a wedding.  This wedding, Gillie often declared to Susan, with
much earnestness, was the "stunninest ewent that had ever occurred to him in his private capacity
as a man."

There is a proverb which asserts that "it never rains but it pours." This proverb was verified
in the experience of the various personages of our tale, for soon after the tide of fortune
had turned in their favour, the first showers of success swelled into absolute cataracts of
prosperity.  Among other things, the Gowrong mines suddenly went right. Mrs Stoutley's former
man of business, Mr Temple, called one day, and informed her that her shares in that splendid
undertaking had been purchased, on her behalf, by a friend who had faith in the ultimate success
of the mines; that the friend forbade the mention of his name; and that he, Mr Temple, had
called to pay her her dividends, and to congratulate her on her recovery of health and fortune.
Dr Tough--who, when his services were no longer required, owing to the absence of illness,
had continued his visits as a jovial friend--chanced to call at the same time with Mr Temple,
and added his congratulations to those of the man of business, observing, with enthusiasm,
that the air of the Swiss mountains, mixed in equal parts with that of the London diamond-fields,
would cure any disease under the sun.  His former patient heartily agreed with him, but said
that the medicine in question was not a mere mixture but a chemical compound, containing an
element higher than the mountains and deeper than the diamond-fields, without which the cure
would certainly not have been effected.

Need we say that Captain Wopper stuck to Mrs Roby and the "new cabin" to the last?  Many and
powerful efforts were made to induce him to bring his "mother" to dwell in Kensington, but
Mrs Roby flatly refused to move again under any suasion less powerful than that of a fire.
The eldest of Lewis Stoutley's boys therefore hit on a plan for frequent and easy inter-communication.
He one day suggested the idea of a boating-club to his brothers and companions.  The proposal
was received with wild enthusiasm.  The club was established, and a boathouse, with all its
nautical appurtenances, was built under the very shadow of Mrs Roby's dwelling.  A trusty "diamond"
from Grubb's Court was made boat-cleaner and repairer and guardian of the keys, and Captain
Wopper was created superintendent general director, chairman, honorary member, and perpetual
grand master of the club, in which varied offices he continued to give unlimited satisfaction
to the end of his days.

As for Slingsby, he became an aspirant to the honours of the Royal Academy, and even dreamt
of the president's chair!  Not being a madman, he recovered from the disease of blighted hopes,
and discovered that there were other beings as well as Nita worth living for!  He also became
an intimate and welcome visitor at the two Kensington mansions, the walls of which were largely
decorated with his productions.  Whether he succeeded in life to the full extent of his hopes
we cannot say, but we have good reason to believe that he did not entirely fail.

From time to time Lewis heard of his old guide Antoine Grennon from friends who at various
periods paid a visit to the glaciers of Switzerland, and more than once, in after years, he
and his family were led by that prince of guides over the old romantic and familiar ground,
where things were not so much given to change as in other regions; where the ice-rivers flowed
with the same aspects, the same frozen currents, eddies, and cataracts as in days gone by;
where the elderly guides were replaced by youthful guides of the same type and metal--ready
to breast the mountain slopes and scale the highest peaks at a moment's notice; and where Antoine's
cottage stood unchanged, with a pretty and rather stout young woman usually kneeling in a tub,
engaged in the destruction of linen, and a pretty little girl, who called her "mother," busy
with a miniature washing of her own.  The only difference being that the child called Antoine
"grandfather," and appeared to regard a strapping youth who dwelt there as her sire, and a
remarkably stout but handsome middle-aged woman as her grandmother.

Last, but not least, the Professor claims a parting word.  Little, however, is known as to
the future career of the genial man of science, one of whose chief characteristics was his
reverent recognition of God in conversing about His works.  After returning to his home in
the cold north he corresponded for some years with Dr Lawrence, and never failed to express
his warmest regard for the friends with whom he had the good fortune to meet while in Switzerland.
He was particularly emphatic--we might almost say enthusiastic--in his expressions of regard
for Captain Wopper, expressions and sentiments which the bold mariner heartily reciprocated,
and he often stated to Mrs Roby, over an afternoon cup of tea, his conviction that that Roosian
Professor was out o' sight one of the best fellows he had ever met with, and that the remembrance
of him warmed his heart to furriners in general and Roosians in particular. This remark usually
had the effect of inducing Mrs Roby to ask some question about his, the Captain's, intercourse
with the Professor, which question invariably opened the flood-gates of the Captain's memory,
and drew from him prolonged and innumerable "yarns" about his visit to the Continent--yarns
which are too long to be set down here, for the Captain never tired of relating, and old Mrs
Roby never wearied of listening, to his memorable rambles on the snow-capped mountains, and
his strange adventures among the--Rivers of Ice.

THE END.

