But of those who have had the advantages of a college or theological seminary training, the
type of training has not fitted them for effective rural service. The training of ministers
has gone through the same process as other types of training. It was once thought that since
the sole business of the minister was the personal appeal to accept Christ, with the emphasis
on the personal atonement features of Christianity rather than on the principles of Christian
living, the same type of training would fit one to deliver the message whether he was in the
slums of the city, on the shores of Africa, or in the mountains of Colorado. Moreover, for
some reason, it appears to have been accepted that the rural ministry was the simplest of all
and that any one could be a rural minister. It would be amusing if it were not so tragic to
accept the testimony of some of those who have not yet seen that the rural ministry is a type
demanding such a cosmopolitan understanding of human nature and of conditions of human existence
that it demands the best intellects and the highest type of missionary spirit to carry on successfully.
We have heard of college presidents recommending young men for important rural positions because
the young man was "not ambitious for any important work in the church." It has been known that
officials in the church would bid for theological seminary graduates with the assurance that
while they would have to accept an "undesirable" rural charge for a year or so, they would
soon be "promoted." The writer knows of at least one young Negro minister, a holder of a Master's
degree from a large educational institution, whose major work for his higher degree was in
the dead languages. The attitude of our educational institutions, and the attitude in public
thought has been that progress for the individual has been in the direction of getting away
from the country instead of remaining with rural folk and giving one's life to the advancement
of the group as a whole; and the courses of study have had primarily in mind the personal appeal
rather than that of dealing with man in his particular environment.

It is now recognized that modern life demands a specialized ministry. The one who can handle
successfully a rural industrial or a downtown urban situation may not be at all fitted to deal
with the problems of the village or the open country. On the other hand, the one who can serve
farmers successfully might not be at all fitted to fill a metropolitan pulpit. Beginnings only
have been made in attempting to adjust educational work to meet this modern demand. In the
meantime the problem remains of the ministers trained under former conditions, if trained at
all. Many of them have not yet caught the vision of the larger program of the church; and of
those who have caught this vision the handling of the tools of the new program is such a delicate
task that many failures are sure to be recorded. It will take years to bring the church to
the place where it can meet successfully the modern demands upon it.

The second great problem is that of maladjustment in thought. Protestantism is still suffering
from the effects of extreme individualism in religious belief. Strong leaders, obsessed with
some one variation in interpretation of the Scriptures, have pulled off from the main body
of the church and have started independent organizations committed to the development of the
particular interpretation they have made. When once these organizations have been formed and
have secured a financial backing, they have continued to spread, until to-day rural America
presents the spectacle of religious forces agreeing on the broad general program of the relation
of the church to community needs but paralyzed because of dissensions over less essential principles
of theological dogma. The reasons for separate organizations have often been forgotten and
loyalty to a particular organization as such has taken its place.

The solution of this problem is not that of attempting to eliminate differences in dogmatic
belief by argument, but of emphasizing the points of agreement of the various religious groups.
Error and nonessential dividing lines will disappear if neglected. But if they are agitated,
they will thrive under persecution and conditions will be worse than ever.

The third problem is that of maladjustment of buildings to community needs. This problem presents
itself in two aspects: first, that of location of church buildings, and, second, that of location
of pastors' residences. In the original settlement of this country, people located their new
homes in neighborhoods partly for social and economic purposes and partly for protection. Where
these new groups were founded the church building soon found a place. As the communities grew,
and aided in the course of time by ambitious national agencies, the sectarian interests mentioned
above established new churches to care for those of each particular belief until many communities
soon became overchurched. The rapid decrease in open-country, and even village, population
which began during the 70's of the past century and which has continued to the present made
the problem still worse, until to-day probably the least efficient institution in all rural
life is the rural church.

Moreover, the first settlements did not always mark the spot of permanent development of population
and interest centers. As time has passed, many of the places which it was once thought would
be permanent centers have lost their preeminence and others have taken their place, until now
many very small communities have too many churches, and others are lacking in adequate facilities
for religious service.

The time has now come when it is believed that rural population and agricultural tendencies
are sufficiently well known to enable those interested in rural life development to determine
what are the most suitable centers for community development. The Interchurch World Movement,
had it been carried to a successful conclusion, would have gone far toward determining those
centers for the entire United States. As it is, the Movement made possible such determination
for about one fifth of the United States and the task of completing the survey may be accomplished
in the course of time.

When this task is completed, then the challenge to the churches of America will be to so readjust
the location of their church buildings and to remodel them in such a way as to be adapted to
the present and probable future growth of communities so determined. This work is scarcely
begun, but it is believed that it has gone far enough to insure its ultimate achievement. When
this is done, then the local church will be in a position to deal most effectively with the
community problems mentioned in preceding chapters.

The situation as to location of pastors' residences is even more serious than that of location
of church buildings. During the pioneer period of church organization ministers were under
the necessity of dividing their efforts among a considerable number of small groups. These
were organized into circuits and the pastor's residence was provided at the point either where
the original church was established or where it was most convenient for him to serve the preaching
points under his care. Each denomination developed its own work regardless of other groups
and in many cases from the same common center, so that we now have in rural and village organization
pastors' residences centralized in the minority of rural communities and the great majority
of such communities without resident pastoral care.

In the State of Ohio, for example, in one county of twenty-four communities but twelve have
resident pastors and in these twelve communities thirty-nine pastors reside. In another of
sixteen communities but eight have resident pastors. Yet in each county there are enough ministers
to supply each community with a resident pastor, if readjustment were to be made. In the northeastern
part of the State on a single Methodist district are to be found two instances of Methodist
and Presbyterian pastors living in the same village and going on alternate Sundays to another
village, in one instance larger than that wherein the ministers live. The facts as to the growth
and decline of churches with resident or non-resident ministers elsewhere present (see Church
Growth and Decline in Ohio) are a sufficient indication of the effects of maladjustment of
pastoral residences to rural community needs. Since the modern demand of rural life upon the
church is for community leadership as well as for holding Sunday worship, it is clear that
no adequate program of church leadership in rural life can be worked out until this vital need
of readjustment of pastoral residences to community service is met.

A third serious problem is that of lack of coordination of denominational effort in community
service. Where two or more religious organizations find a place in the same small community,
no plan has yet been successfully tried whereby these organizations as such have been brought
into harmonious and continuous action for community service. The presence of two or three ministers
of social vision in the same small community is not always an asset, since small communities
do not have a place for more than one leader and sectarian interests forbid cooperation under
the leadership of either of the church pastors. This situation has given rise to such organizations
as the Christian Associations, the Sunday School Associations, and a large number of nonreligious
agencies now trying to provide for community leadership independent of the church. It is intended
here to call attention to the problem. A suggestion as to methods of solution will be taken
up more at length in a succeeding chapter.

A fourth serious problem resulting from the above is lack of adequate support for rural religious
institutions. Owing to the general lack of financial resources of rural communities as compared
with the urban centers, they have not been able to compete financially with city churches in
bidding for men who have high standards of living and who demand large financial returns for
services rendered. This condition will probably continue indefinitely because of the tendency
of large-scale industrial production to centralize wealth control in urban centers; that is,
unless the economic motive is taken from Christian service through the equalization of salaries.
This is a solution much to be desired, but it is feared that pastors will not take kindly to
such a movement; and members of city churches will continue to contribute to the support of
their own particular pastor instead of to general pastoral support. But the weakness in support
has been seriously increased because of dividing of such resources as rural communities have
among so many different agencies. Many communities that could support a pastor at two thousand
dollars or more a year now have men serving denominations at one thousand dollars per year or less.

The same is true of church building. When five church buildings must be erected and maintained
for sectarian purposes in a town where there is room for but one school building there is little
wonder that the contrast between church buildings and other rural institutional buildings is
so marked. And it is little wonder that when people begin to think in community terms they
are inclined to pass by the church as an institution offering hope of community service conservation
and turn either to the school or to some other agency that they hope will serve the purpose.

Closely akin to the problem of inadequate support for the country minister and the country
church is that contention often made that the job of a country preacher does not offer as great
a challenge as does that of service in other branches of church work. It is believed that this
contention is erroneous because the rural work, while not demanding the same qualities of service
as other types, does demand qualities of its own that equal, if they do not exceed, those of
the city pulpit. The ability to serve people long and continuously in close personal relation
to them; to deal patiently with conservatism; to endure the hardships of living under conditions
far below what are to be found in city environments; to get the support of the people for progressive
measures, and to keep alive mentally in an environment that is not the most conducive to study
because of lack of reading facilities and because of the ease with which one may shirk the
means of personal growth--all these make the task one for the specially capable and devoted.

But if there is truth in the statement that the country ministry does not offer the opportunity
for the exercise of personal abilities required by the city pulpit, then, unless we frankly
recognize that the limit of possibility of building up the rural work is to alleviate an unavoidable
discrepancy in personal challenge, it becomes necessary to so reorganize the local parish that
it will be a challenge fit to attract the best minds in the church.

The first step already has been mentioned: that is, to adjust relationships between denominations
so that a minister will have sole responsibility for community leadership.

The second is to enlarge the parishes under the control of one pastor that he will have ample
field for the exercise of his abilities. In some sections of the country two or more communities
may still have to be assigned to one minister, with the expectation that he will develop local
volunteer leadership in the respective communities, or have adequate assistance in the way
of special workers among the children and in the homes and have directors of religious education
for full or part time in each community. In most sections of the country the communities are
now of such a size as to demand the full time of a paid minister and to pay a satisfactory
salary for services rendered.

The third is to increase the functions of the pastorate so that people will be willing to pay
more for the service rendered. This results directly from the adoption of the larger program
for the church herein recommended.

The practice--still all too rare--of supplying the pastor with an automobile for pastoral work,
should be encouraged everywhere, particularly when the charge has a pastor who has the vision
of the broader program of the church and is specially trained for his work. There are complications
in the connectional system of making appointments that tend to prevent liberality in this respect.
When a charge is brought up to adequate self-support the tendency is too often to make the
charge a place to "take care" of a Conference member of that grade regardless of his fitness
to follow up the type of program introduced by his predecessor. The taking of the automobile
by the departing pastor deprives the community of its use. Leaving it for the use of an inefficient
pastor is too great a burden on the community. Experience will determine the best means of
handling this problem and should ultimately put ministers on the same basis as to having means
of transportation furnished as County Agricultural Agents, County Superintendents of Schools,
Christian Association Secretaries, etc.

The soldier in the ranks will probably never be looked upon as in the same grade of responsible
position as the captain of the company. So the country minister has a right to look forward
in due time to "promotion" in natural channels; that is, to the district superintendency. It
is to be feared that too often at the present time, the rural minister is discouraged from
remaining in the rural work because he sees that a very large proportion of the positions in
the church that are recognized as personal promotions are filled from the city pulpits. His
course of advance is now from the country pulpit to the city pulpit, thence to the district
superintendency or detached service, thence to the bishopric, a position very few ministers
refuse if offered. The rural work would be strengthened if rural district superintendencies
were filled by rural men who have demonstrated their ability to build up a rural charge successfully,
and then if these same rural district superintendents were to have an opportunity to fill the
highest possible positions in the church, thus bringing to the highest administrative offices
of the church the tried experience that comes from building up a district in Methodism. When
the necessity of leaving the rural work in order to get "promotion" is eliminated there will
be a marked strengthening of loyalty to the rural work.

The illustrations given have been taken from Methodist Episcopal experience. Other denominations
have similar problems, but probably to a less degree because of the more marked form of localized
democracy in church polity.

If the churches of America permit this crisis of lack of adjustment of church to community
needs to pass unchallenged, and if they delay in making the adjustments needed, the time will
soon come when other agencies, supported by rural communities, will make provision for these
needs and the opportunity of the church will be gone indefinitely. Other agencies will be performing
a real Christian service, and the church, by reason of its failure to live up to the demands
upon it, will have an increasingly difficult task of justifying its existence so far as relationship
to this world is concerned.

CHAPTER VIII

INTERDENOMINATIONAL READJUSTMENT

Rural progress under church leadership has been much like the first drops of water on a placid
lake at the beginning of a rain. Little rises of water appear and some waves circle out, but
the ultimate level is not much raised. So with the church. Here and there a minister stirs
up some local community, some definite progress is made, attention is attracted from other
communities and they may have a few symptoms of a rise, but too often the minister moves, another
comes, and the general level of community life falls back to what it was before.

The difficulty is that with the overlapping of interdenominational jurisdictions it is impossible
for any group to lead in progress outside of the local community. Methodists cannot lead in
a county program because Baptists and Presbyterians will not follow them. Neither can the other
groups lead because Methodists are not gifted in following the leadership of other denominations.
It is perfectly natural and justifiable that this should be so. Before the churches of America,
Protestant or Catholic, can render the entire service demanded of them there must be a thoroughgoing
system of interdenominational cooperation worked out which will insure joint responsibility
of all denominations concerned in providing for community leadership on a large scale. If this
is impossible, then the inevitable alternative must be accepted of passing by the churches
of America in carrying out comprehensive plans of progress and of turning to other agencies
for this service.

