He thanked her eloquently, and talked to her a little longer, kindly and affectionately, and
then he offered to seek her father; and left her to her agitated reflections. What a fine,
dignified man he looked! Could it be possible that this was her lot in life? And the very sun
which had risen upon her planning a walk with Mary Elliot next week, was yet streaming upon
her poor pots of geraniums on the dusty window-sill. She quitted her seat, and began to walk
quickly up and down.

"Leslie, you are shaking the room." Mamma had been in the further window with her sewing all
the time.

Leslie stole behind the brown window-curtain, fluttering her hand among the folds.

"Leslie, you are pulling that curtain awry."

"I cannot help it, mamma."

"Why not, child? Are you ill?"

"Yes--no, mamma. I don't know what to think--I can't think. But Hector Garret has asked me
to be his wife."

Mrs. Bower's needle dropped from her fingers. She stared at her daughter. She rose slowly.

"Impossible, Leslie," she observed.

Leslie laughed hysterically.

"Yes, indeed. It was very strange, but I heard every word."

"Are you certain you are not mistaken?"

Mrs. Bower had never so cross-examined her daughter in her life; but Leslie was not disturbed
or vexed by her incredulity.

"Quite certain. I know it was only yesterday that you scolded me for taking liberties with
his name; but he was perfectly serious, and he has gone to tell papa."

Mrs. Bower gazed wistfully on Leslie, and a faint red colour rose in her cheek, while she interlaced
her fingers nervously.

"Leslie," she asked again, in a shaking voice, "do you know what you are doing?"

Leslie looked frightened.

"Is it so very terrible, mamma? I should possibly have married some day--most girls mean to
do it; and only think of Ferndean and Otter. Besides, there is nobody I could like so well
as Hector Garret, I am quite sure, although I little guessed he cared so much for me;" and
Leslie's eye's fell, and a sunny, rosy glow mantled over her whole face, rendering it very
soft and fair.

"I see it is to be, Leslie. May it be for your welfare, my dear;" and her mother stooped abruptly,
and kissed the young, averted cheek.

Leslie was awed. She dreaded that her father would be equally moved, and then she did not know
how she could stand it. But she might have spared herself the apprehension; for when the Professor
shuffled in he sat down as usual, fumbled for his spectacles, looked round with the most unconscious
eye, observed that "Ware" had that day exceeded in his lecture by twenty minutes--"a bad practice,"
(Dr. Bower was himself notoriously unpunctual,) and took not the slightest notice of any event
of greater importance, until Leslie's suspense had been so long on the rack that it began to
subside into dismay, when glancing up for a moment, he observed parenthetically, as he turned
a page--"Child! you have my approval of a union with Hector Garret--an odd fancy, but that
is no business of ours,"--dropped his eyes again on his volume, and made no further allusion
to the subject for the rest of the evening--no, nor ever again, of his own free will. Hector
Garret assailed him on preliminaries, his wife patiently waylaid and besieged him for the necessary
funds, acquaintances congratulated him--he was by compulsion drawn more than once from roots
and æsthetics; but left to himself, he would have assuredly forgotten his daughter's wedding-day,
as he had done that of her baptism.

Leslie recovered from the stunning suddenness of her fate, and awoke fully to its brightness.
To go down to Ayrshire and dwell there among hills and streams, and pure heather-scented air,
like any shepherdess; to be the nearest and dearest to Hector Garret:--already the imaginative,
warm-hearted girl began to raise him into a divinity.

Leslie was supremely content, she was gay and giddy even with present excitement; with the
pretty bustle of being so important and so occupied--she whose whole time lately had been vacant
and idle--so willing to admire her new possessions, so openly elated with their superiority,
and not insensible to the fact that all these prominent obtrusive cares were but little superfluous
notes of the great symphony upon which she had entered, and whose infinitely deeper, fuller,
higher tones she would learn well, by-and-by.

Leslie Bower was the personification of joy, and no one meddled with her visions. Hector Garret
was making his preparations at Otter; and when Leslie sang as she stitched, and ran lightly
up and down, only the servants in the kitchen laid their heads together, and confided to each
other that "never did they see so daffin' a bride; Miss Leslie should ken that a greetin' bride's
a happy bride!" But no one told Leslie--no one taught her the tender meaning of the wise old
proverb--no one warned her of the realities of life, so much sadder, so much holier, purer,
more peaceful than any illusion. Her mother had relapsed into her ordinary calmness, rather
wounding Leslie's perceptions when she allowed herself to think of it, for she did not read
the lingering assiduity that was so intent it might have been employed upon her shroud. And
there was no one else--no; Leslie was quite unaware that her gladness was ominous.

Only the shadow of a warning crossed Leslie's path of roses, and she disregarded it. Her confidence
in Hector Garret and in life remained unbounded.

Leslie had gone to the best known of her early companions, her cup brimming over in the gracious
privilege of begging Mary Elliot to be her bridesmaid. The Elliots had been kind to her, and
had once taken her to their cheerful country-house; and now Mary was to witness the ceremony,
and Hector Garret had said that she might, if she pleased, pay Leslie a long visit at Otter.

Mary Elliot was a little older, a little more experienced in womanly knowledge than Leslie.

"How strange it sounds that you should be married so soon, Leslie, from your old house, where
we thought you buried. We believed that you must lead a single life, unless your father made
a pet of one of his students: and then you must have waited until he left college."

"It is the reverse. I have no time to lose," nodded Leslie; "only Hector Garret is not old-looking.
I don't believe that he has a grey hair in his head. He is a far handsomer man than Susan Cheyne's
sister's husband."

"I know it; he was pointed out to me in the street. Is he very fond of you, Leslie?"

"I suppose--a little, or he would not have me."

"Does he flatter you, pretend that you are a queen, say all manner of fine things to you? I
should like to be enlightened."

"No, no, Mary; real men are not like men in books--and he is not foolish."

"But it is not foolish in a lover. They are all out of their senses--blinded by admiration
and passion."

"Perhaps; but Hector Garret is a clever man, only he speaks when he is spoken to, and does
not forget you when out of sight. And do you know, I have been used to clever people, and decidedly
prefer to look up to a man?"

"What does he call you, Leslie?"

"Why, Leslie, to be sure, or Miss Bower. You would not have him say Mrs. Garret yet?" And Leslie
covered her face and laughed again, and reddened to the tips of her fingers.

"Not 'Bonnie Leslie,' 'Jewel,' 'Angel,'" jested Mary, thrilling at the echo of a certain low,
fluttered voice, that had sounded in her own ears and would wilfully repeat, "Winsome Mary,"
"Little Woman," "Witch!"

"No," Leslie replied, with honest frankness, "that would be speaking nonsense; and if Hector
Garret thinks nonsense that is bad enough."

"Do you remember how we talked sometimes of our husbands?"

"Yes, I do. They were all to be heroes."

"And you were to be courted on bended knees. Yes, Leslie, solicited again and again; and when
you yielded at last, it should be such an act of grace that the poor fellow would be half mad
with delight."

"I was mad myself. I was full of some song or bit of poetry. I tell you again, Mary, if you
have not found it out for yourself, real life is not like a book. Hector Garret is not the
man to beg and implore, and wait patiently for a score of years. I wish you saw how he manages
his strong horse. He sits, and does not yield a hair's breadth. Though it paws and rears, he
just holds its head tight and pats its neck. Now, I want him to check and guide me. I have
been left a great deal to myself. Papa and mamma are not young, and it appears to me that a
single child is not enough to draw out the sympathies of a staid, silent couple. They have
been very kind to me all my life, and I ought to be glad that they will not miss me much. But
although it was wrong, I have often felt a little forlorn, and been tempted to have bad, discontented
thoughts all by myself. However, that is over, and I hope I'm going to be a good and sensible
woman now. And, Mary, I am so anxious to have your opinion upon my crimson pelisse, because
mamma does not profess to be a judge; and I cannot be certain that it is proper merely on a
mantua-maker's word and my own taste. I would like to do Hector Garret credit; not that I can
really do so in any eyes but his own."

III.--THE NEW HOME.

Hector Garret had his girl wife at Otter, and very sunny her existence was for the lustrum
of that honeymoon. It was almost sufficient for her to be at liberty, fairly installed in her
castle in the air, a country home. And its lord and master was generous and indulgent, and
wasted, he did not care to say how many days, in displaying to her the green ruinousness of
Ferndean--in climbing the hills and hunting out the widest views for her--in taking her out
in his boat, and rowing her in sunshine and shade, enjoying her wonder and exultation most
benevolently. In a short time he left her to herself, for he had much property, to whose numerous
details he attended with rigid conscientiousness, and he had been a student from his youth,
and sat almost as much as Dr. Bower in his library, although it was an airier and more heterogeneously
fitted-up sanctuary. Leslie was perfectly satisfied; in fact, while the novelty around her
was fresh, she preferred to wander about at her leisure, and find out places for herself, because
Hector Garret was always hurrying her, and she was trying so hard to be clever, active, and
amiable. Ah, that slight strain already perceptible, that growth of ignorance, misconception,
and extravagant reverence--what fruit would it bear?

Otter was a rambling white house in a green meadow opening to the sea. Its salient points were
its size and age. The slowest-growing shrubs in its pleasance were tough, seamed, branched
and bowed with time. There were few trees in the neighbourhood except at forsaken Ferndean;
but there were slow swelling hills crowned with heather closing in the valley over which Otter
presided with the dignified paternal character of the great house of strath, or glen. Leslie
smiled when she first heard the natives of the district term the grey or glittering track that
bounded the western horizon, "The Otter Sea," but very soon she fell into the use of the same
name, and was conscious of feeling far more interest in the boats and ships that crossed that
limited space, than in those which she saw from the hilltops spread far and wide over a great
expanse broken only by the misty Irish coast-line. Indeed, Hector Garret explained to her that
he had seignorial claims over that strip of waves--that the seaweed, and, after certain restrictions,
the fragments of wreck cast upon its sands, were his property, quite as much as if he had waved
his banner over it, like the gallant Spaniard, in the name of his Most Catholic Majesty.

Leslie had variety in her locality; the beach, with its huge boulders and inspiring music;
the fields and "uplands airy," with their hedge wealth of vetch, briar, and bramble; the garden,
the ancient walled garden, at whose antiquities Hector Garret laughed.

Leslie played sad pranks in the early season of her disenthralment. She wandered far and near,
and soiled her white gowns, to the despair of the Otter servant who did up the master's shirts
and managed the mistress's clear-starching, but who never dreamt, in those days of frills,
robes, and flounces, of styling herself a laundress. Leslie filled her apron with mosses and
lichens: she stole out after the reapers had left the patch of oats which was not within sight
of the house, and gathered among the sheaves like a Ruth. She grew stout and hardy, and, in
spite of her gipsy bonnet, as brown as a berry under this out-of-door life, until no one would
have known the waxen-faced city girl; and many a time when Hector Garret left his study in
the dusk and found his way to the drawing-room, he discovered her asleep from very weariness,
with her head laid down on her spindle-legged work-table, and the white moonbeams trying to
steal under her long eyelashes. He would tread softly, and stand, and gaze, but he never stooped
and kissed her cheek in merry frolic, never in yearning tenderness.

Such was Leslie's holiday; let her have it--it ended, certainly. The black October winds began
to whistle in the chimneys and lash the Otter sea into foam; the morning mists were white and
dense on the hills, and sometimes the curtain never rose the whole day; the burns were hoarse
and muddy, the sheep in fold, the little birds silent. Leslie loved the prospect still, even
the wild grey clouds rent and whirled across the sky, the watery sun, and the ragged, wan,
dripping verdure; but it made her shiver too, and turn to her fireside, where she would doze
and yawn, work and get weary in her long solitary hours. Hector Garret was patient and good-humoured;
he took the trouble to teach her any knowledge to which she aspired; but he was so far beyond
her, so hopelessly superior, that she was vexed and ashamed to confess to him her ignorance,
and it was clear that when he came up to her domain in the evening he liked best to rest himself,
or to play with her in a fondling, toying way. After the first interminable rainy day which
she had spent by herself at Otter, when he entered and proceeded in his cool, rather lazy fashion
to tap her under the chin, to inquire if she had been counting the rain drops, to bid her try
his cigar, she felt something swelling in her throat, and answered him shortly and crossly;
but when she found that he treated her offended air as the whim of a spoilt child, and was
rather the more amused by it, she determined that he should not be entertained by her humours.
Perilous entertainment as it was, Leslie could not have afforded it; her wilderness tamed her
so that she welcomed Hector Garret eagerly, submitted to be treated as a child, exerted herself
to prattle away gaily and foolishly when her heart was a little heavy and her spirits languid.

Leslie saw so little of her husband--perhaps it was the case with all wives; her father and
mother were as much apart--but Leslie did not understand the necessity. She did not like her
life to be selfish, smooth, and aimless, except for her own fancies, as it had been from the
first. She wanted to share Hector Garret's cares and his work which he transacted so faithfully.
She wished he thought her half as worth consulting as his steward. She had faith in woman's
wit. She had a notion that she herself was quick and could become painstaking. She tried entering
his room once or twice uninvited, but he always looked so discontented, and when she withdrew
so relieved, that she could not persevere in the attempt.

When Hector Garret went shooting or fishing, Leslie would have accompanied him gladly, would
have delighted in his trophies, and carried his bag or his basket, like any gillie or callant
of the Highlands or Lowlands, if he would have allowed it; but his excursions were too remote
and fatiguing, and beyond the strength that was supposed consistent with her sex and nurture.

Little fool! to assail another's responsibilities and avocations when her own were embarrassing
her sufficiently. Her household web had got warped and entangled in her careless, inexperienced
hands, and vexed and mortified her with a sense of incapacity and failure--an oppression which
she could not own to Hector Garret, because there was no common ground, and no mutual understanding
between them. When Leslie came to Otter she found the housekeeping in the hands of an Irish
follower of the Garrets--themselves of Irish origin; and Hector Garret presented Bridget Kennedy
to his wife as his faithful and honoured servant, whom he recommended to a high place in her
regard. Bridget Kennedy displayed more marked traces of race than her master, but it was the
Celtic nature under its least attractive aspect to strangers, proud, passionate, fanciful,
and vindictive. She was devoted to her master, and capable of consideration for Leslie on his
account--though jealous of her entrance upon the stage of Otter; but she evinced this reflected
interest by encroachments and tyranny, a general determination to adhere doggedly to her own
ways, and to impose them upon her mistress.

Leslie began by admiring Bridget, as she did everything else at Otter. Leslie would have propitiated
the mayor of the palace with kind words and attentions, but when she was snapped up in her
efforts, she drew back with a girl's aptness to be affronted and repelled. Next Leslie began
to angrily resist Bridget's unbecoming interference with her movements, and design of exercising
authority and control over the child whom the master had chosen to set over his house; but
her fitful impulses were met and overruled by stubborn and slenderly veiled fierceness. Leslie
was not weak, but she was undisciplined; and she who had been the young Hotspur of the most
orderly and pacific of families, learnt to tremble at the sound of Bridget's crutch in the
lobbies, and her shrill voice rating the servants who flew to do her bidding.

In proportion as Leslie cowered at her subordinate, the subordinate was tempted to despise
her and lord it over her.

Hector Garret was blind to this contention. For his own part, he humoured Bridget or smiled
at her asperities, as suited him; and it is probable that if he had been appealed to, he would
have adopted his old favourite's side, and censured Leslie as touchy, inconsiderate, perhaps
a little spiteful. But he never was made umpire, for Leslie had all the disadvantage of a noble
temper in an unseemly struggle. Bridget plagued Leslie, but Leslie would not injure Bridget,--no,
not for the world. The imperious old woman was Hector Garret's friend; he had said that he
had known no firmer friend than Bridget Kennedy. She had closed his father's eyes, she had
stood by himself in sickness and sorrow (for all his strength and self-command, Hector had
known sickness and sorrow--that was a marvel to Leslie)--Bridget might clutch her rights to
the end, what did it signify? only a little pique and bitterness to an interloper.

Leslie had ceased to credit that she would ever become the wise, helpful woman that she had
once warmly desired to see herself. Her own defects were now familiar and sorely disheartening
to her, and she had grown aware that she could not by inspiration set and preserve in smooth,
swift motion the various wheels of Otter, not even if--unlooked for and undesired sequel!--she
received express permission to dance upon the head of old Bridget.

Leslie had fancied once, when Hector Garret told her how few neighbours lived within visiting
distance, that she should not want society: but the solitude was matter of regret, especially
when it proved that of the few families who exchanged rare intercourse, some of better birth
than breeding scarcely held the daughter of the disinherited laird and Glasgow scholar as their
equal in social rank, or a spouse worthy of the master of Otter, or indeed entitled to their
special esteem.

The only house without any pretension within sight of Otter was situated at the other extremity
of the bay, on a peninsula projecting far into the sea. It had been built in the days when
each mansion was a fortalice, and when safety from enemies was of more moment than the convenience
of friends.

This Earlscraig was now little more than a grim, grey turret, seldom occupied; the companion
body of the building had been destroyed nearly a score of years before by a fire--the tragedy
of the country-side, as it consummated the ruin of an old family--and in its horrors a lady
of the house perished miserably. So the sight of its cold cluster of chimneys, wind-rocked
walls, and scorched and crumbling vestiges of sudden destruction, far from adding to the cheerfulness
of the landscape, was a blot on its rural prosperity.

The homes of humbler friends were foreign thresholds to Leslie; the reserved, engrossed, dignified
master of Otter crossed them with a freer step. Leslie could but address her servants, and
venture to intermeddle bashfully with their most obvious concerns. She had neither tongue nor
eye for more distant and difficult dependants.

But Leslie was not dying of ennui or spleen, or miserable and with a nameless fathomless misery.
She was only disenchanted--conscious of feeling a great deal older than she had done six months
since. How could she have been so credulous, so vain! Verily, every path of roses has its panoply
of thorns.

IV.--THE PAGES OF THE PAST.

One winter night Leslie, in her deep chair, observed Hector Garret turning over the leaves
of an old pocket-book. Hector; catching her eye, offered it to her with a "See, Leslie, how
my father chronicled the fashions"--he never did suppose her susceptible of very grave interests.

In the dearth of other amusements Leslie pored over the ancient diary, and found more suggestive
paragraphs than the entry indicated: "Abel Furness has sent me a waistcoat an inch and a half
shorter, and a pair of clouded silk hose for the black ditto, ordered." There were--"Three
pounds English to my boy Hector, to keep his pocket during his stay at Ardhope." "A crown to
Hector as fee for fishing out the black stot that broke its neck over the rocks." "A letter
from Utrecht from my son Hector; a fair hand and a sensible diction." "Forty pounds over and
above paid to please Hector on the bond over the flax-fields of Ferndean." "A small stipend
secured to my thriftless kinsman, Willie Hamilton, by the advice and with the aid of my son
Hector." "To Earlscraig with Hector:" this notice was repeated many times, until the record
closed abruptly with the tremulous thanksgiving--"My dear son and heir, Hector, recovered of
his malady by the blessing of God."

Very plainly lay the life-clue of that silent heart, traced in the faded ink of those yellowing
pages. How old men cherished their offspring! What did Hector Garret think of those mute but
potent witnesses of a regard that he could know no more on earth? She knew he prized the book,
for she had seen it carefully deposited in one of the private drawers in his study. She opened
it at the beginning, and slipping her fingers into its gilded pockets, discovered a folded
paper. It contained merely a sprig of heather, and written on the enclosure--"From my dear
wife, Isobel; her first gift." Two dates were subjoined, with thirty years' interval--that
of the receipt of the token, and that of the inscription of the memorandum.

With flushing cheeks Leslie sat, and spread out the crushed, brittle spikes, so fondly won,
so dearly held. She was sure Hector had not one leaf, riband, or ring which she had given him.
Once when he was gayer than his wont, and plagued her with his jesting petting, she took up
the scissors and cut off a lock of his hair. He did not notice the theft till it was accomplished,
and then he stood half-thoughtful, half-contemptuous. He had not a hair of hers, but of course
the whole head was his; his father had judged otherwise.

This earlier Hector Garret--she had heard Bridget enlarge upon his merits. "A fine man, like
the master, but frank and light of heart until he lost the lady--ay, a real lady! grand and
gladsome--the old lady of Otter." Leslie longed for a vision of those old occupants of her
place and her husband's; to have a vivid experience of how they looked, spoke, and lived; to
see them in spirit--in their morning good wishes, their noonday cares, their evening cheer,
their nightly prayers? Was their union only apparent? were they severed by a dim, shapeless,
insurmountable barrier, for ever together, yet for ever apart?

These shades lingered and abode with Leslie in her lonely vigils, ere she distinguished whether
their language was that of warning or reproach. She studied their material likenesses--the
last save one in the picture-gallery--honest faces, bright with wholesome vigour; their son
Hector's was a finer physiognomy, but the light had left lip and eye, and Leslie missed it
as she gazed wistfully at these shadows, and compared them with their living representative.

A stranger came to Otter: that was an unfrequent event, even when the spring was advancing,
and the boats which had been drawn up for the winter were again launched in the cove, and the
brown nets hung anew to dry on the budding whins and gowans--the April gowans converting the
haugh into a "lily lea." Their nearest neighbour, only an occasional resident among them, lounged
over with his whip, dog-call, and dogs, and entered the drawing-room at Otter, to be introduced
for the first time to its mistress. Leslie's instincts were hospitable, and they were by no
means strained by exercise; but she did not like this guest; she felt an involuntary repugnance
to him, although he was very courteous to her--with an elaborate, ostentatious homage that
astonished and confused her. He was a man of Hector Garret's age, but, even in his rough coat,
with marked remains of youthful foppishness and pretension. He was a tall man, with beard and
moustache slightly silvered; his aquiline features were sharpened and drawn; his bold searching
eyes sunken. He was a gentleman, even an accomplished and refined gentleman in manner and accent--and
yet there was about him a nameless coarseness, the brutishness of self-indulgence and low aims
and ends, which no polish could efface or conceal.

Leslie, notwithstanding her slight knowledge of life, apprehended this, and shrank from the
man; but he addressed Hector Garret with the ease of an intimate associate--and Hector Garret,
with his pride and scrupulousness, suffered the near approach, and only winced when the stranger
accosted Leslie, complimented Leslie, put himself coolly on the footing of future friendship
with the lady of the house.

The day wore on, and still the visitor remained, entertaining himself, and discoursing widely,
but for the most part on practices and motives strange at Otter.

"So you've married, after all, Hector," he said, suddenly, as they sat together in the twilight:
"well, I excuse you," with a laugh and a touch on the shoulder.

The words were simple enough, but they tingled in Leslie's ears like insolence, and Hector
Garret, so hard to rouse, bit his lips while he answered indifferently--"And when does your
time come, Nigel? Are the shadows not declining with you?"

"Faith, they're so low, that there's not light left for the experiment; besides, French life
spoils one for matrimony here, at least so poor Alice used to say--'no galling bonds on this
side of the Channel'--the peaceful couvent grille, or a light mariage de convenance among the
pleasant southerns;--not that they are so pleasant as they were formerly either."

Hector Garret got up and walked to one of the window recesses, his brow knit, his teeth set.

Leslie rose to steal from the room.

"Nay, stay, madam," urged the bland, brazen intruder; "don't rob us so soon of a fair, living
apology for fades souvenirs."

But "Go, Leslie, we will not detain you," Hector Garret exclaimed, impatiently; and Leslie
hurried to her own chamber in a tumult of surprise and indignation, and vexed suspicion. Mysteries
had not ceased; and what was this mystery to which Hector Garret deigned to lend himself in
disparaging company with a sorry fine gentleman?

Bridget Kennedy was there before her, making a pretence of fumbling in the wardrobe, her head
shaking, her lips working, her eyes blazing with repressed rage and malice.

"Is he there, madam, still?" she demanded, impetuously. "Is he torturing and maddening Master
Hector with his tones and gestures? He!--he that ought to crouch among the bent grass and fern
sooner than pass the other on the high road. Borrowing and begging, to lavish on his evil courses:
he who could not pay us--not in red gold, but with his heart's blood--the woe he wrought. They
had guileful, stony hearts, the Boswells, before they ever took to foreign lightness and wickedness:
and evil to him who trafficked with them in life or death."

"Who is he, Bridget? I do not know him; I cannot understand," gasped Leslie.

"Don't ask me, madam--you, least of all."

"Tell me, Bridget, tell me," implored the girl, frightened, yet exasperated, catching the old
woman's withered hands, and holding them fast.

"Don't ask me, madam," reiterated Bridget, sternly. "Better not."

"I will know; what do you mean? Oh, you hurt me, you hurt me! I will ask Hector Garret himself.
I cannot bear this suspense!"

"Child, do you choose what you can bear? Beware!" menaced the nurse; then, as Leslie would
have broken from her--

"Have it, then! He is the brother of that Alice Boswell who perished in the burning of Earlscraig
nigh twenty years ago."

"Poor lady, Bridget," Leslie said, with a bewildered, excited sob. "Poor unhappy lady; but
what has that to do with him, with me? I understand no better. Help me, Bridget Kennedy--a
woman, like myself. I will not let you go."

"Madam, what good will it serve? It is small matter now:" then half reluctantly, half with
that possession with which truth fills its keeper, slowly and sadly she unfolded the closed
story. "What had Master Hector to do with Alice Boswell? He had to do with her as a man has
to do with his heart's desire, his snare, his pitfall."

"He loved her, Bridget; he would have wedded her. I might never have been his--that is all."

"Love, marriage!" scornfully; "I know not that he spoke the words, but he lay at her feet.
Proud as Master Hector was, she might have trodden on his neck; cool as Master Hector seems
to others, he was fire to her. I have seen him come in from watching her shadow, long hours
below her window, in the wind and rain, and salt spray. I have known him when he valued her
glove in his bosom more than a king's crown--blest, blest if he had but a word or a glance.
But it is long gone by, madam. Master Hector has gained wisdom and gravity, and is the head
of the house; and for fair Miss Alice, she has gone to her place. Yes, she was a beauty, Miss
Alice; she could play on stringed instruments like the heavenly harpers, and speak many tongues,
and work till the flowers grew beneath her fingers. She learnt to wile men's souls from their
bodies, if nothing more, in the outlandish parts where she was bred."

"So fair, so gifted--did she care for him in return, Bridget? Did she love him as he loved
her?" asked a faint voice.

"What need you mind, madam?" sharply. "It is ill speaking harsh words of the dead. Did I not
say she had gone to her place? God defend you from such a passage. Let her rest. Sure she cared
for him, as she cared for aught else save herself. She scattered smiles and favours on scores.
He knew at last what she took, and what she gave, if he did not guess it always."

"Why did he not save her, Bridget? die with her!"

"Madam," bitterly, "he did what man could do. They say he was more like a spirit than a mortal;
but if he was to lose his love, how could even Master Hector fight against his Maker? He was
fain to follow her; he dallied with death for weeks and months. Those were fell days at Otter,
but the Lord restored him, and now he is himself again, and no woman will ever move Master
Hector more."

There was silence in the room for a space. At last Bridget broke it: "Do you want anything
more with me, madam, or shall I go?"

Haughty as Bridget Kennedy was, she spoke hesitatingly, almost pitifully. She had stabbed that
young thing, sitting pale and cold before her; and no sooner was the deed done than her strong,
deep nature yearned over her victim as it had never done to Hector Garret's girl wife, in the
first rosy flush of her thoughtless gladness.

"Nothing more." The words were low and heavy, and when Bridget left her, Leslie raised her
hands and linked them together, and stretched them out in impotence of relief.

What was this news that had come to her as from a far country?--this blinding light, this burst
of knowledge that had to do with the very springs of a man's nature, this fountain so full
to some, so empty to others? She had been deceived, robbed. Hector Garret was Alice Boswell's--in
life and death, Alice Boswell's.

This love, which she had known so slightly, measured so carelessly--oh, light, shallow heart!--had
been rooted in his very vitals, had constrained him as a conqueror his captive, had been the
very essence of the man until it spent itself on Alice Boswell's wild grave. He had come to
her with a lie in his right hand, for he was bound and fettered in heart, or else but the blue,
stiff corpse of a man dead within; he had betrayed her woman's right, her best, dearest, truest
right, her call to love and be loved. Another might have wooed her as he had wooed Alice Boswell;
to another she might have been the first, the only one! she knew now why she was no helpmeet,
no friend for him; why his hand did not raise her to his eminence, his soul's breath did not
blow upon hers, and create vigour, goodness, and grace to match his own. Deep had not cried
unto deep: heart had not spoken to heart: the dry bones, the vacant form, the empty craving,
were her portion; and out of such unnatural hollowness have arisen, once and again, deadly
lust and sin.

Why had none stepped in between her and this cruel mockery and temptation? "Mother, mother,
how could you be false to your trust? Were you, too, cheated and bereft of your due? left a
cold, shrinking woman, withering, not suddenly, but for a whole lifetime?"

Leslie sat long weighing her burden, until a tap at the door and Bridget Kennedy's voice disturbed
her. "Earlscraig is gone, madam; Master Hector is sitting alone with his thoughts in your room.
May be, he is missing his cup of tea, or, if you please, madam, his lady's company that he
is used to at this hour."

