"After freedom they had gone to another place and the man owned the place run the Ku Klux off.
They come there and he told them to go on away, if he need them he would call them back out
there. They never came back, she said. They was scared to death of the Ku Klux. At the place
where they was freed all the farm bells rung slow for freedom. That was for miles about. Their
master told them up at his house. He said it was sad thing, no time for happiness, they hadn't
'sperienced it. But for them to come back he would divide long as what he had lasted. They
didn't go off right at first. They was several years getting broke up. Some went, some stayed,
some actually moved back. Like bees trying to find a setting place. Seem like they couldn't
get to be satisfied even being free.

"I had eleven children my own self. I let the plough fly back and hit me once and now I got
a tumor there. I love to plough. I got two children living. She comes to see me. She lives
across over here. I don't hear from my boy. I reckon he living. I gets help from the relief
on account I can't work much with this tumor."

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson Person interviewed: Maria Sutton Clemments, DeValls Bluff,
Ark. Age: Between 85 and 90 years [TR: Also reported as Maria Sutton Clements]

I don't know jes how old I is. Yes mum I show do member the war jes lack as if it was yesterday.
I was born in Lincoln County, Georgia. My old mistress was named Frances Sutton. She was a
real old lady. Her husband was dead. She had two sons Abraham and George. One of them tried
to get old missus to sell my ma jes before the war broke out. He wanter sell her cause she
too old to bear children. Sell her and buy young woman raise mo children to sell. Put em in
the nigger drove and speculate on em. Young nigger, not stunted, strong made, they look at
their wristes and ankles and chestes, bout grown bring the owner fifteen hundred dollars. Yea
mam every cent of it. Two weeks after baby born see the mother carrin it cross the field fur
de old woman what kept all the children and she be going right on wid de hoe all day. When
de sun come up the niggers all in the field and workin when de ridin boss come wid de dogs
playin long after him. If they didn't chop dat cotton jes right he have em tied up to a stake
or a big saplin and beat him till de blood run out the gashes. They come right back and take
up whar they lef off work. Two chaps make a hand soon as dey get big nuf to chop out a row.

Had plenty to eat; meat, corncake and molasses, peas and garden stuff. They didn't set out
no variety fo the niggers. They had pewter bowls to eat outer and spoons. Eat out in the yard,
at the cabins, in the kitchen. Eat different places owin to what you be workin at when the
bell rung. Big bell on a high post.

My ma's name was Sina Sutton. She come from Virginia in a nigger traders drove when she was
sixteen years old and Miss Frances husband bought er. She had nine childen whut lived. I am
de youngest. She died jes before de war broke out. Till that time I had been trained a house
girl. My ma was a field hand. Then when the men all went to the army I plowed. I plowed four
years I recken, till de surrender. Howd I know it was freedom? A strange woman--I never seed
fore, came runnin down where we was all at work. She say loud as she could "Hay freedom. You
is free." Everything toe out fer de house and soldiers was lined up. Dats whut they come by
fer. Course dey was Yankee soldiers settin the colored folks all free. Everybody was gettin
up his clothes and leaving. They didn't know whar des goin. Jes scatterin round. I say give
'em somethin. They was so mad cause they was free and leavin and nobody to work the land. The
hogs and stock was mostly all done gone then. White folks sho had been rich but all they had
was the land. The smoke houses had been stripped and stripped. The cows all been took off cept
the scrubs. Folks plowed ox and glad to plow one.

Sometime we had a good time. I danced till I joined the church. We didn't have no nigger churches
that I knowed till after freedom. Go to the white folks church. We danced square dance jess
like the white folks long time ago. The niggers baptized after the white folks down at the
pond. They joined the white folks church sometimes. The same woman on the place sewed for de
niggers, made some things for Miss Frances. I recollects that. She knitted and seed about things.
She showed the nigger women how to sew. All the women on the place could card and spin. They
sat around and do that when too bad weather to be on the ground. They show didn't teach them
to read. They whoop you if they see you have a book. If they see you gang round talkin, they
say they talkin bout freedom or equalization. They scatter you bout.

When they sell you, they take you off. See drove pass the house. Men be ridin wid long whips
of cow hide wove together and the dogs. The slaves be walkin, some cryin cause they left their
folks. They make em stand in a row sometimes and sometimes they put em up on a high place and
auction em.

The pore white folks whut not able to buy hands had to work their own land. There shore was
a heap of white folks what had no slaves. Some ob dem say theys glad the niggers got turned
loose, maybe they could get them to work for them sometimes and pay em.

When you go to be sold you have to say what they tell you to say. When a man be unruly they
sell him to get rid of him heap of times. They call it sellin nigger meat. No use tryin run
off they catch you an bring you back.

I don't know that there was ever a thought made bout freedom till they was fightin. Said that
was what it was about. That was a white mans war cept they stuck a few niggers in front ob
the Yankee lines. And some ob the men carried off some man or boy to wait on him. He so used
to bein waited on. I ain't takin sides wid neither one of dem I tell you.

If der was anything to be knowed the white folks knowed it. The niggers get passes and visit
round on Saturday evening or on Sunday jes mongst theirselves and mongst folks they knowed
at the other farms round.

When dat war was done Georgia was jes like being at the bad place. You couldn't stay in the
houses fear some Ku Klux come shoot under yo door and bust in wid hatchets. Folks hide out
in de woods mostly. If dey hear you talkin they say you talkin bout equalization. They whoop
you. You couldn't be settin or standing talkin. They come and ask you what he been tell you.
That Ku Klux killed white men too. They say they put em up to hold offices over them. It was
heap worse in Georgia after freedom than it was fore. I think the poor nigger have to suffer
fo what de white man put on him. We's had a hard time. Some of em down there in Georgia what
didn't get into the cities where they could get victuals and a few rags fo cold weather got
so pore out in the woods they nearly starved and died out. I heard em talk bout how they died
in piles. Niggers have to have meat to eat or he get weak. White folks didn't have no meat,
no flour.

The folks was after some people and I run off and kept goin till I took up with some people.
The white folks brought them to Tennessee--Covington--I come too. They come in wagons. My father,
he got shot and I never seed him no mo. He lived on another farm fo de war. I lived wid them
white folks till bout nine years and I married. My old man wanted to come to dis new country.
Heard so much talk how fine it was. Then I had run across my brother. He followed me. One brother
was killed in the war somehow. My brother liked Memphis an he stayed there. We come on the
train. I never did like no city.

We farmed bout, cleared land. Never got much fo the hard work we done. The white man done learned
how to figure the black folks out of what was made cept a bare living.

I could read a little and write. He could too. We went to school a little in Tennessee.

When we got so we not able to work hard he come to town and carpentered, right here, and I
cooked fo Mr. Hopkins seven years and fo Mr. Gus Thweatt and fo Mr. Nick Thweatt. We got a
little ahead then by the hardest. I carried my money right here [bag on a string tied around
her waist]. We bought a house and five acres of land. No mum I don't own it now. We got in
hard luck and give a mortgage. They closed us out. Mr. Sanders. They say I can live there long
as I lives. But they owns it. My garden fence is down and won't nobody fix it up fo me. They
promises to come put the posts in but they won't do it and I ain't able no mo. I had a garden
this year. Spoke fo a pig but the man said they all died wid the kolerg [cholera]. So I ain't
got no meat to eat dis year.

I ain't never had a chile. I ain't got nobody kin to me livin dat I knows bout. When I gets
sick a neighbor woman comes over and looks after me.

I thinks if de present generation don't get killed they die cause they too lazy to work. No
mum dey don't know nuthin bout work. They ain't got no religion. They so smart they don't pay
no tention to what you advise em. I never tries to find out what folks doin and the young generation
is killin time. I sho never did vote. I don't believe in it. The women runnin the world now.
The old folks ain't got no money an the young ones wastes theirs. Theys able to make it. They
don't give the old folks nuthin. The times changes so much I don't know what goiner come next.
I jes stop and looks and listens to see if my eyes is foolin me. I can't see, fo de cataracts
gettin bad, nohow. Things is heap better now fo de young folks now if they would help derselves.
I'm too wo out. I can't do much like I could when I was young. The white folks don't cheat
the niggers outen what they make now bad as they did when I farmed.

I never knowed about uprisings till the Ku Klux sprung up. I never heard bout the Nat Turner
rebellion. I tell you bout the onliest man I knowed come from Virginia. A fellow come in the
country bout everybody called Solomon. Dis long fo the war. He was a free man he said. He would
go bout mong his color and teach em fo little what they could slip him along. He teached some
to read. When freedom he went to Augusta. My brother seed him and said "Solomon, what you doin
here?" and he said "I am er teaching school to my own color." Then he said they run him out
of Virginia cause he was learnin his color and he kept going. Some white folks up North learned
him to read and cipher. He used a black slate and he had a book he carried around to teach
folks with. He was what they called a ginger cake color. They would whoop you if they seed
you with books learnin. Mighty few books to get holt of fo the war. We mark on the ground.
The passes bout all the paper I ever seed fo I come to Tennessee. Then I got to go to school
a little.

Whah would the niggers get guns and shoot to start a uprisin? Never had none cept if a white
man give it to him. When you a slave you don't have nothin cept a big fireplace and plenty
land to work. They cook on the fireplace. Niggers didn't have no guns fo the war an nuthin
to shoot in one if he had one whut he picked up somewhere after the war. The Ku Klux done the
uprisin. They say they won't let the nigger enjoy freedom. They killed a lot of black folks
in Georgia and a few white folks whut they said was in wid em. We darkies had nuthin to do
wid freedom. Two or three set down on you, take leaves and build a fire and burn their feet
nearly off. That the way the white folks treat the darky.

I never knowed nobody to hold office. Them whut didn't want to starve got someplace whut he
could hold a plow handle. You don't know whut hard times is. Dem was hard times. They used
to hide in big cane brakes, nearly wild and nearly starved. Scared to come out. I ain't wanted
to go back to Georgia.

The folks I lived wid fo I come to Tennessee, he tanned hides down at the branch and made shoes
and he made cloth hats, wool hats. He sold them. We farmed but I watched them up at the house
minu a time.

One thing I recollect mighty well. Fo de war a big bellied great monster man come in an folks
made a big to do over him. He eat round and laughed round havin a big time. His name was Mr.
Wimbeish (?). He wo white britches wid red stripes down the sides and a white shad tail coat
all trimmed round de edges wid red and a tall beaver hat. He blowed a bugle and marched all
the men every Friday ebening. He come to Miss Frances. They fed him on pies and cakes and me
brushin the flies off im and my mouth fairly waterin for a chunk ob de cake. When de first
shot of war went off no more could be heard ob old Mr. Wimbeish. He lef an never was heard
tell ob no mo. He said never was a Yankee had a hart he didn't understand! I never did know
whut he was. He jess said that right smart.

I gets the Old Age Pension and meets the wagon and gets a little commodities. I works my garden
and raises a few chickens round my house. I trusts in de Lord and try to do right, honey, dat
way I lives. I don't know no other name that what they all call him. Some I heard say it like
Wimbush. He was a great big man, big in here [chest], big in here [stomach]. He have hair bout
color youn [light]. He have big blue eyes jes' sparklin' round over the victuals on the table.
He was a lively man. He had a heap to tell and a heap to talk bout. He had fair skin and rosy
jaws--full round face. He laughed out loud pretty often. He looked fine when he laughed too.
They all was foolish bout him. He was a newcommer in there. I don't know whah he stay. He come
down the road regular as Friday come, going to practice em marchin'. Looked like bout fifty
fellows. I never seed Mr. Wimbeish on a horse all time he passed long that road. He miter jes'
et round mong the people while he stayed there. He wore red 'appletts' on his shoulders. I
never seed him outer that fresh starched white suit. It was fishtail coat and had red bands
stitched all round the edge and white breetches [britches] [TR: 'britches' is marked out by
hand] with red bands down the side. He sure was a young man. They had him bout different places
eatin'. Old mistress said, 'Fix up a good dinner today we gwiner have company.' That table
was piled full. It was fine eatin'. He say so much I couldn't forgit. Never was a Yankee what
have a heart he couldn't understand. I don't know what he was. He was so different. He muster
been a Southerner 'cause white folks would not treated him near that good. It was fo de war.
They say when the first bugle blowed fo war he was done gone an' nebber been heard of till
dis day. I heard some say last they seed him, he was rollin' over an' over on the ground and
the men run off to find em nother captain. I don't know if they was tellin' like it took place.
I know I never seed him no more.

Slave Times

"The servants take up what they eat in bowls and pans--little wooden bowls--and eat wid their
fingers and wid spoons and they had cups. Some had tables fixed up out under the trees. Way
they make em--split a big tree half in two and bore holes up in it and trim out legs to fit.
They cooked on the fireplaces an' hearth and outerdoors. They cooked sompin to eat. They had
plenty to eat. But they didn't have pies and cake less they be goiner have company. They have
so much milk they fatten the pigs on it.

"The animals eat up the gardens and crops. The man kill coon and possum if they didn't get
nough meat up at the house. I say it sure is good. It is good as pork. The men prowl all night
in the winter huntin'. If you be workin' at the field yo dinner is fetched down thar to you
in a bucket that high [2 ft.], that big er round [1-1/2 feet wide]. The hands all come an'
did they eat. That be mostly fried meat and bread and baked taters, so they could work.

"Old mistress say she first married Mr. Abraham Chenol. Then she married Mr. Joel Sutton and
they both died. She had two sons. She had a nephew what come there from way off. She said he
was her sister's boy. Couse they had doctors and good ones. Iffen a doctor come say one thing
the matter he better stick to it and cure one he come thar to see. Old mistress had three boys
till one died. I was brushin' flies offen him. She come and cry and go way cryin'. He callin'
her all time. He quit callin' her then he was dead. Made a sorter gurglin' sound. That the
first person I seed die. When they say he dead I got out and off I was gone. I was usin' a
turkey wing to brush flies offen him. I don't know what was the matter wid em. They buried
him on her place whah the grave yard was made. Both her husbands buried down there. She had
a fine marble put over his grave. It had things wrote on it. She sent way off an' got it. They
hauled it to here in a wagon. The Masons burled him. It was the prettiest sight I ever seed.

"Her son John had some peafowls. She had geese--a big drove--turkeys, guineas, ducks, and geese.

"She had feather beds and wheat straw mattresses, clean whoopee! They used cotton baggin' and
straw and some of the servants had a feather bed. Old mistress get up an' go in set till they
call her to breakfast. They had a marble top table and a big square piano. That was the parlor
furniture. They made rugs outen sheep an' goat skins.

"When she want the cook go wid her she dress her up in some her fine dresses--big white cap
like missus slep in an' a white apron tied round her waist. We wore 5¢ calico and gingham dresses
for best. She'd buy three and four bolts at Augusta [Georgia] and have it made up to work in.
We didn't spin and weave till the war come on. Some old men come round making spinnin' wheels.
They was very plain too nearly bout rough. Rich folks had fine silk dresses--jes' rattle when
they walked--to wear to preachin'. They sho did have preachin' an' fastin' too durin' the war
but folks didn't have fine clothes when it ended like when the war started.

Ku Klux Klan

"It started outener the bushwhackers. Some say they didn't get what was promised em at Shiloh
Battle. They didn't get their rights. I don't know what they meant by it. The bushwhackers
ketch the men in day goiner work--ketch em this way [by the shoulders or collar]. Such hollerin'
and scramblin' then you never heard. They hide behind big pine trees till he come up then step
out behind and grab him. They first come an' call fer water. Plenty water in the well or down
at the spring. They knowed it too. Then they waste all you had brought up and say--'Ah! First
drink I had since I come from hell.' They all knowed ain't nobody come from hell. They had
hatchets an' they burst in your house. Jes' to scare you. They shoot under your house. They
wore their wives big wide nightgowns and caps and ugliest faces you eber seed. They looked
like a gang from hell--ugliest things you ebber did see. It was cold--ground spewed up wid
ice and men folks so scared they run out in woods, stay all night. Old mistress died at the
close of de war an' her son what was a preacher, he put on a long preacher coat and breeches
(britches) [TR: 'britches' is marked out by hand] all black. He put a navy six in his belt
and carried carbeen [carbine] on his shoulder. It was a long gun shoot sixteen times. He was
a dangerous man. He made the Ku Klux let his folks alone. He walk all night bout his place.
He say, 'Forward March!' Then they pass by. He was a dangerous man. So much takin' place all
time I was scared nearly to death all time."

"Five wagons come by. They said it was Jeff Davise's wagons. They was loaded wid silver money--all
five--in Lincoln County, Georgia. Somehow the folks got a whiz of it and got the money outen
one the wagons. Abraham, my old mistress' son had old-fashion saddle bag full. Sho it was white
folks all but two or three slaves. Hogs tore up sacks money, find em hid in the woods. They
thought it was corn. They found a leather trunk full er money--silver money--down in the creek.
Money buried all round. The way it all started one colored man throwed down a bright dime to
a Yankee fo sompin he wanter buy. That started it all. They tied their thumbs this way (thumbs
crossed) behind em, then strung em up in trees by their wrists behind em. It put heep of em
in bed an' some most died never did get over it. The Yankee soldiers come down that [HW: then?]
and got all the money nearly. They say the war last four years, five months. Seemed like twenty
years."

Interviewer: Pernella Anderson
Person Interviewed: Fannie Clemons
                    940 N. Washington
                    El Dorado, Ark.
Age: 78

"I was born down in Farmerville, Louisiana in the year of 1860. Now my ma lived with some white
people, but now the name of the people I do not know. You see, child, I am old and I can't
recollect so good. I didn't know my pa cause my ma quit him when I was little. My ma said she
worked hard in the field like a black stepchild. My ma had nine chilluns and I was the oldest
of the nine. She said her old miss wouldn't let her come to the house to nurse me, so she would
slip up under the house and crawl through a hole in the floor. She took and pulled a plank
up so she could slip through.

"I would drink any kind of water that I saw if I wanted a drink. If the white folks poured
out wash water and I wanted a drink that would do me. It just made me fat and healthy. Most
we played was tussling, and couldn't no boy throw me. Nobody tried to whip me cause they couldn't.

"We always cooked on fireplaces and our cake was always molasses cakes. At Christmas time we
got candy and apples, but these oranges and bananas and stuff like that wasn't out then. Bananas
and oranges just been out a few years. And sugar--we did not know about that. We always used
sugar from molasses. I don't think sugar been in session long. If it had I did not get it.

"I got married when I was pretty old, I lived with my husband eight years and he died. I had
some children, but I stole them. The biggest work I ever done was farm and we sure worked."

Interviewer: Watt McKinney Person interviewed: Joe Clinton, Route 2, Marvell, Arkansas Age: 86

"Uncle Joe" Clinton, on ex-Mississippi slave, lives on a small farm that he owns a few miles
north of Marvell, Arkansas. His wife has been dead for a number of years and he has only one
living child, if indeed his boy, Joe, who left home fifteen years ago for Chicago and from
whom no word has been received since, is still alive. Due to the infirmities of age "Uncle
Joe" is unable to work and obtains his support from the income received off the small acreage
he rents each year to the Negro family with whom he lives. Seated in an old cane-bottomed chair
"Uncle Joe" was dozing in the warm sunshine of on afternoon in early October as I passed through
the gate leading into the small yard enclosing his cabin. Arousing himself on my approach,
the old Negro offered me a chair. I explained the purpose of my visit and this old man told
me the following story:

"I'se now past eighty-six year ole an' was borned in Panola County, Mississippi 'bout three
miles from Sardis. My ole mars was Mark Childress, en he sure owned er heap of peoples, womens
an' mens bofe, en jus' gangs of chillun. I was real small when us lived in Panola County; how-some-ever
I riccolect it well when us all lef' dar and ole mars sold out his land and took us all to
de delta where he had bought a big plantation 'bout two or three miles wide in Coahoma County
not far from Friar Point. De very place dat my mars bought and dat us moved to is what dey
call now, de 'Clover Hill Plantation'. De fust year dat us lived in de delta, us stayed on
de place what dey called de 'Swan Lake Place'. Dat place is over dere close to Jonestown and
de very place dat Mr. Billy Jones and his son John bought, en dats zackly how come dat town
git its name. It was named for Mr. John Jones.

"My mars, Mark Childress, he never was married. He was a bachelor, en I'se tellin' you dis,
boss, he was a good, fair man and no fault was to be found wid him. But dem overseers dat he
had, dey was real mean. Dey was cruel, least one of them was 'bout de cruelest white man dat
I is ever seen. Dat was Harvey Brown. Mars had a nephew what lived with him named Mark Sillers.
He was mars' sister's son and was named for my mars. Mr. Mark Sillers, he helped with de runnin'
of the place en sich times dat mars 'way from home Mr. Mark, he the real boss den.

"Mr. Harvey Brown, the overseer, he mean sure 'nough I tell you, and de onliest thing that
keep him from beatin' de niggers up all de time would be old mars or Mr. Mark Sillers. Bofe
of dem was good and kind most all de time. One time dat I remembers, ole mars, he gone back
to Panola County for somepin', en Mr. Mark Sillers, he attendin' de camp meeting. That was
de day dat Mr. Harvey Brown come mighty nigh killin' Henry. I'll tell you how dat was, boss.
It was on Monday morning that it happened. De Friday before dat Monday morning, all of de hands
had been pickin' cotton and Mr. Harvey Brown didn't think dat Henry had picked enough cotton
dat day en so he give Henry er lashin' out in de field. Dat night Henry, he git mad and burn
up his sack and runned off and hid in de canebrake 'long de bayou all of de nex' day. Mr. Harvey,
he missed Henry from de field en sent Jeff an' Randall to find him and bring him in. Dey found
Henry real soon en tell him iffen he don't come on back to de field dat Mr. Harvey gwine to
set de hounds on him. So Henry, he comed on back den 'cause de niggers was skeered of dem wild
bloodhounds what they would set on 'em when dey try to run off.

"When Henry git back Mr. Harvey say, 'Henry, where your sack? And how come you ain't pickin'
cotton stid runnin' off like dat?' Henry say he done burnt he sack up. Wid dat Mr. Harvey lit
in to him like a bear, lashin' him right and left. Henry broke en run den to de cook house
where he mammy, 'Aunt Mary', was, en Mr. Harvey right after him wid a heavy stick of wood dat
he picked up offen de yard. Mr. Harvey got Henry cornered in de house and near 'bout beat dat
nigger to death. In fact, Mr. Harvey, he really think too dat he done kilt Henry 'cause he
called 'Uncle Nat' en said, 'Nat, go git some boards en make er coffin for dis nigger what
I done kilt.'

"But Henry wasn't daid though he was beat up terrible en they put him in de sick house. For
days en days 'Uncle Warner' had to 'tend to him, en wash he wounds, en pick de maggots outen
his sores. Dat was jus' de way dat Mr. Harvey Brown treated de niggers every time he git a
chanct. He would even lash en beat de wimmens.

"Ole mars had a right good size house in dar 'mongst de quarters where dey kept all de babies
en right young chillun whilst dey mammies workin' in de fields pickin' en hoein' time. Old
'Aunt Hannah', an old granny woman, she 'tend to all dem chillun. De chillun's mammies, dey
would come in from de fields about three times er day to let de babies suck. Dere was er young
nigger woman name Jessie what had a young baby. One day when Jessie come to de house to let
dat baby suck, Mr. Harvey think she gone little too long. He give her a hard lashin'.

"Ole mars had a big cook house on de plantation right back in behind he own house en twix his
house en de nigger's quarters. Dat was where all de cookin' done for all de niggers on de entire
place. Aunt Mary, she de head cook for de mars en all of de niggers too. All of de field hands
durin' crop time et dey breakfast en dey dinners in de field. I waited on de table for mars
en sort er flunkyed 'round da house en de quarters en de barns, en too I was one of de young
darkies what toted de buckets of grub to de field hands.

"Ole mars had a house on de place too dat was called de 'sick house'. Dat was where dem was
put dat was sick. It was a place where dey was doctored on en cared for till dey either git
well er die. It was er sort er hospital like. 'Uncle Warner', he had charge of de sick house,
en he could sure tell iffen you sick er not, or iffen you jus' tryin' to play off from work.

"My pappy, he was named Bill Clinton en my mammy was named Mildred. De reason how come I not
named Childress for my mars is 'cause my pappy, he named Clinton when mars git him from de
Clintons up in Tennessee somewhere. My mars, he was a good man jus' like I'm tellin' you. Mars
had a young nigger woman named Malinda what got married to Charlie Voluntine dat belonged to
Mr. Nat Voluntine dat had a place 'bout six miles from our place. In dem days iffen one darky
married somebody offen de place where dey lived en what belonged to some other mars, dey didn't
git to see one annudder very often, not more'n once a month anyway. So Malinda, she got atter
mars to buy Charlie. Sure 'nough he done that very thing so's dem darkies could live togedder.
Dat was good in our mars.

"When any marryin' was done 'mongst de darkies on de place in dem days, dey would first hab
to ask de mars iffen dey could marry, en iffen he say dat dey could git married den dey would
git ole 'Uncle Peyton' to marry 'em. 'Course dere wasn't no sich thing as er license for niggers
to marry en I don't riccolect what it was dat 'Uncle Peyton' would say when he done de marryin'.
But I 'members well dat 'Uncle Peyton', he de one dat do all of de marryin' 'mongst de darkies.

"My mars, he didn't go to de War but he sure sent er lot er corn en he sent erbout three hundred
head er big, fat hogs one time dat I 'members. Den too, he sent somepin like twenty er thirty
niggers to de Confedrites in Georgia. I 'members it well de time dat he sent dem niggers. They
was all young uns, 'bout grown, en dey was skeered to death to be leavin' en goin' to de War.
Dey didn't know en cose but what dey gwine make 'em fight. But mars tole 'em dat dey jus' gwine
to work diggin' trenches en sich; but dey didn't want to go nohow en Jeff an' Randall, they
runned off en come back home all de way from Georgia en mars let 'em stay.

"Boss, you has heered me tellin' dat my mars was er good, kine man en dat his overseer, Mr.
Harvey Brown, was terrible cruel, en mean, en would beat de niggers up every chance he git,
en you ask me how come it was dat de mars would have sich a mean man er working for him. Now
I'se gwine to tell you de reason. You know de truth is de light, boss, an' dis is de truth
what I'se gwine to say. Mars, he in love with Mr. Harvey Brown's wife, Miss Mary, and Miss
Mary's young daughter, she was mars' chile. Yas suh, she was dat. She wasn't no kin er tall
to Mr. Harvey Brown. Her name was Miss Markis, dats what it was. Mars had done willed dat chile
er big part of his property and a whole gang of niggers. He was gwine give her Tolliver, Beckey,
Aunt Mary, Austin, an' Savannah en er heap more 'sides dat. But de War, it come on en broke
mars up, en all de darkies sot free, en atter dat, so I heered Mr. Harvey Brown en Miss Mary,
and de young lady Miss Markis, dey moved up North some place en I ain't never heered no more
from dem.

"Mr. Clarke and Mrs. Clarke what de town of Clarksdale is named for, dey lived not far from
our place. I knowed dem well. Albert, one of mars' darkies, married Cindy, one of Mr. Clarke's
women. General Forrest, I know you is heered of him. I speck he 'bout de bes' general in de
War. He sure was a fine looking man en he wore a beard on he face. De general, he had a big
plantation down dere in Coahoma County where he would come ever so offen. A lot of times he
would come to our place en take dinner wid ole mars, en I would be er waitin' on de table er
takin' dem de toddies on de front gallery where dey talkin' 'bout day bizness.

"Boss, you axed me if dey was any sich thing in slavery times as de white men molestin' of
de darky wimmen. Dere was a heap of dat went on all de time an' 'course de wimmens, dey couldn't
help deyselves and jus' had to put up wid it. Da trouble wasn't from de mars of de wimmens
I'se ever knowed of but from de overseers en de outside white folks. Of course all dat couldn't
have been goin' on like it did without de mars knowin' it. Dey jus' bound to know dat it went
on, but I'se never heered 'bout 'em doin' nothin' to stop it. It jus' was dat way, en dey 'lowed
it without tryin' to stop all sich stuff as dat. You know dat niggers is bad 'bout talkin'
'mongst demselves 'bout sich en sich er goin' on, and some of mars' darkies, dey say dat Sam
and Dick, what was two real light colored boys, dat us had was mars' chillun. Dat was all talk.
I nebber did believe it 'cause dey nebber even looked like mars en he nebber cared no more
for dem dan any of the rest of de hands."

Interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden
Person interviewed: Betty Coleman
                    1112-1/2 Indiana Street, Pine Bluff, Arkansas
Age: 80
Occupation: Cotton Picker
[Dec 31 1937]

"My father belonged to Mr. Ben Martin and my mother and me belonged to the Slaughters. I was
small then and didn't know what the war was about, but I remember seein' the Yankees and the
Ku Klux.

"Old master had about fifteen or twenty hands but Mr. Martin had a plenty--he had bout a hundred
head.

"I member when the war was goin' on we was livin' in Bradley County. We was goin' to Texas
to keep the Yankees from gettin' us. I member Mr. Gil Martin was just a young lad of a boy.
We got as far as Union County and I know we stopped there and stayed long enough to make two
crops and then peace was declared so we cane back to Warren.

"While the war was goin' on, I member when my mother took a note to some soldiers in Warren
and asked em to come and play for Miss Mary. I know they stood under a sycamore and two catawba
trees and played. There was a perty big bunch of em. Us chillun was glad to hear it. I member
just as well as if 'twas yesterday.

"I member when the Yankees come and took all of Miss Mary's silver--took every piece of it.
And another time they got three or four of the colored men and made em get a horse apiece and
ride away with em bareback. Yankees was all ridin' iron gray horses, and lookin' just as mad.
Oh Lord, yes, they rid right up to the gate. All the horses was just alike--iron gray. Sho
was perty horses. Them Yankees took everything Miss Mary had.

"After the war ended we stayed on the place one year and made a crop and then my father bought
fifty acres of Mr. Ben Martin. He paid some on it every year and when it was paid for Mr. Ben
give him a deed to it.

"I'm the only child my mother had. She never had but me, one. I went to school after the war
and I member at night I'd be studyin' my lesson and rootin' potatoes and papa would tell us
stories about the war. I used to love to hear him on long winter evenings.

"I stayed right there till I married. My father had cows and he'd kill hogs and had a peach
orchard, so we got along fine. Our white folks was always good to us."

Interviewer: Thomas Elmore Lucy
Person interviewed: Lucy Cotton
                    Russellville, Arkansas
Age: 72
[Jan 7 1938]

"Lucy Cotton's my name, and I was born on the tenth day of June, 1865, jist two months after
the surrender. No suh, I ain't no kin to the other Cottons around here, so far as I knows.
My mother was Jane Hays, and she was owned by a master named Wilson.

"I've belonged to the Holiness Church six years. (They call us 'Holiness,' but the real name
is Pentecostal.)

"Yes suh, there's a heap of difference in folks now 'an when I was a girl--especially among
the young people. I think no woman, white or black, has got any business wastin' time around
the votin' polls. Their place is at home raisin' a family. I hear em sometimes slinging out
their 'damns' and it sure don't soun' right to me.

"Good day, mistah. I wish you well--but the gov'ment ain't gonna do nothing. It never has yit."

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson Person interviewed: T.W. Cotton, Helena, Arkansas Age: 80
[May 11 1938]

"I was born close to Indian Bay. I belong to Ed Cotton. Mother was sold from John Mason between
Petersburg and Richmond, Virginia. Three sisters was sold and they give grandma and my sister
in the trade. Grandma was so old she wasn't much account fer field work. Mother left a son
she never seen ag'in. Aunt Adeline's boy come too. They was put on a block but I can't recollect
where it was. If mother had a husband she never said nothing 'bout him. He muster been dead.

"Now my papa come from La Grange, Tennessee. Master Bowers sold him to Ed Cotton. He was sold
three times. He had one scar on his shoulder. The patrollers hit him as he went over the fence
down at Indian Bay. He was a Guinea man. He was heavy set, not very tall. Generally he carried
the lead row in the field. He was a good worker. They had to be quiet wid him to get him to
work. He would run to the woods. He was a fast runner. He lived to be about a hundred years
old. I took keer of him the last five years of his life. Mother was seventy-one years old when
she died. She was the mother of twenty-one children.

"Sure, I do remember freedom. After the Civil War ended, Ed Cotton walked out and told papa:
'Rob, you are free.' We worked on till 1866 and we moved to Joe Lambert's place. He had a brother
named Tom Lambert. Father never got no land at freedom. He got to own 160 acres, a house on
it, and some stock. We all worked and helped him to make it. He was a hard worker and a fast hand.

"I farmed all my life till fifteen years ago I started trucking here in Helena. I gets six
dollars assistance from the Sociable Welfare and some little helpouts as I calls it--rice and
potatoes and apples. I got one boy fifty-five years old if he be living. I haven't seen him
since 1916. He left and went to Chicago. I got a girl in St. Louis. I got a girl here in Helena.
I jus' been up to see her. I had nine children. I been married twice. I lived with my first
wife thirteen years and seven months. She died. I lived with my second wife forty years and
some over--several weeks. She died.

"I was a small boy when the Civil War broke out. Once I got a awful scare. I was perched up
on a post. The Yankees come up back of the house and to my back. I seen them. I yelled out,
'Yonder come Yankees.' They come on cussing me. Aunt Ruthie got me under my arms and took me
to Miss Fannie Cotton. We lived in part of their house. Walter (white) and me slept together.
Mother cooked. Aunt Ruthie was a field hand. Aunt Adeline must have been a field hand too.
She hung herself on a black jack tree on the other side of the pool. It was a pool for ducks
and stock.

