The next day they picked me up and put me in the second or reserve mess wagon. Shortly after
that the start was made. We had covered less than two miles when all of a sudden I heard the
rumbling of distant thunder. Very soon rain began to patter on the canvas covering of my wagon.
Then Heaven's artillery broke loose and the water came down in torrents. Never in my young
life had I witnessed such a storm. It seemed as if thunder, lightning and clouds had descended
to earth and were mad with anger. The racket was deafening. Between the angered claps could
be heard the cursing of those Missouri bushwhackers, who, in their oaths, defied the Almighty
to do his worst and hurled unspeakable insults at the memory of the mothers who gave them birth.
I knew they were trying hard to make corral; whether they could do it, rested entirely with
the wagon boss.

The cattle were crazed with fright and the moment they were loose, would certainly stampede.
The oxen were finally unyoked and such a snorting and bellowing, it would be impossible to
describe. As the racket died away in their mad race, my thoughts turned to my chum, who I knew
was with them, and would be trampled beyond recognition by their death-dealing hoofs, if he
had not gained his proper position in the rear.

THE LOG CABIN

At that juncture the front flaps of my wagon were parted and at a flash I recognized two of
the men, who bore me across the way to the "Old Log Cabin" on the extreme edge of the then
Western civilization. As they laid me down I swooned from sheer exhaustion and fright. Before
I had become fully conscious I heard that gruff old wagon boss telling the good woman of the
cabin to spare nothing for my comfort. She felt of my pulse, asked me a few questions and assured
him that she would soon have me on my feet. He bade "God bless me," and passed out into the
dark and stormy night. The good woman poked up the fire and placed an old-fashioned, iron tea-kettle
in position to do its duty. At that juncture a young miss about my own age came from somewhere,
as if by magic, and was told by the good mother to prepare a chicken, that she might make broth
for the sick young man, pointing to where I lay. For two hours that good mother worked over
me, now and then giving me draughts of hot herb tea, while the daughter deftly prepared nature's
wild bird of the prairie, occasionally shooting darts of sympathy from her jet black eyes.
When the bird had been cooked, the meat and bones were removed leaving only the broth which
was seasoned to a nicety and given me in small quantities and at short intervals until early
morning, when I passed into dreamland with the mother keeping vigil as though I were her own
son. When I awoke I felt refreshed and comfortable, and found her still at my side, doing for
me that which only a mother can.

At daybreak I heard footsteps above; presently the father and son came in. The daughter was
called and breakfast was prepared. They told me that our cattle had stampeded and it might
be days before they were found. After a three days search my chum and the cattle were overtaken
miles from camp, but none the worse for their fearful experience. The moment he arrived he
came to see me. I was sitting up for the first time, wrapped in Indian blankets, but very weak.
I assured him that I would certainly get well, emphasizing the fact, however, that had we not
run into that fearful storm, making my present haven of care possible, I could never have recovered,
and believed that the prayers of a loving mother at home had been answered.

A CATTLE STAMPEDE

He then related his experience with those storm-maddened cattle. The first clap of thunder
awoke him, and when the rain began he knew he was in for a bad night, and had taken every precaution
to supply himself with all things needful. His description of the storm and mad race to keep
up with those wild animals, crazed with fright, was enough to congeal the blood of a well man,
and in my condition it nearly unnerved me. But I was delighted to know that he was safe, for
we were like brothers. His safe arrival, together with the motherly care I had received and
was receiving, put me rapidly on the gain. Not a morning passed that the daughter did not shoulder
her trusty rifle and go out in search of some refreshment for me, always returning with a number
of chickens of the prairie. She was a sure shot, as were the entire family, for they were all
born and brought up on the border, moving farther West as the country became settled. From
the father I learned the treachery of the Indians, their mode of warfare and different methods
of attack; in fact, I had the devilish traits of the noble red men--as history called them--down
to a nicety.

When the daughter's day's work was done, she would read to me and relate stories of her life,
which reminded me of the "Wild Rose" in all its purity and strength.

The fifth day after the cattle were found the train broke corral and proceeded on its long
Western tramp. Before leaving, Mr. Perry made arrangements with the old borderman for me to
overtake them as soon as I was able.

The fourth day after the train had left, I made up my mind that I would start the next morning
at sunrise and so informed my Western friends, whom, I felt, had saved my life. The old borderman
expressed regret at my leaving and informed me that both he and his son would accompany me
to camp. I thanked him and assured him that I felt a mother could not have done more for her
own son than his wife had for me--they had all shown me every consideration possible--and that
I should always remember them, which I have. At this juncture the mother spoke up gently, but
firmly, and addressing her husband, said, "If you have no objection, daughter will accompany
Mr. Young. She is a sure shot, a good horsewoman, and the horses are fleet of foot. We have
not heard of any Indians in the neighborhood for some time, and besides she wants to go and
the ride will do her good."

He replied, "My good woman, you cannot tell where the Indians are, they may be miles away today,
but here this very night."

"That is true," she said, "but the stage driver told me that he had not seen a redskin since
crossing the Nebraska line."

"That may be," he replied, "still they may have been in the bluffs, or sand hills watching
their opportunity to surprise one of the many small trains of pilgrims, thinking to overpower
them, run off their cattle and massacre all."

"Yes, that is all true, but I'll wager they could not catch our girl."

After thinking silently for a few moments, he said, "Well, if you wish, she may go; but if
anything happens to our little one, you alone will be blamed."

That settled it. We talked long after father and brother had bade us good night. Mother and
daughter finally retired; but, as for myself, I was nervous and restless, sleeping little,
thinking of home and loved ones; not, however, forgetting the little "Wild Rose" that was separated
from me only by a curtain partition.

The following morning we were up at break of day, and at just 5:30 on a lovely August morning
the horses were brought to the door and both quickly mounted. Her riding habit of buckskin,
trimmed with colored beads, was the most becoming costume I had ever seen on her during my
stay, and for the first time I wished that I were not going, but it was for a moment only.

WITH THE WAGON TRAIN AGAIN

My destination was Denver, and nothing could change my plans except death in the natural way,
or being cut down by those treacherous plains roamers. After a pleasant ride which lasted till
noon, we came in sight of the corral. When within a quarter of a mile of it, she informed me
she was going no farther. Both quickly dismounted. Our conversation would not interest you.
Suffice to say, the parting was painful to both. I bade her good-bye and she was off like a
flash. I walked slowly into camp, now and then turning to watch the fast retreating figure
of as brave a prairie child as nature ever produced. The men appeared glad to see me; the gruff
old wagon boss more so than any of the others, for he would not let me turn my hand to any
kind of work until I was able. Then I did my best to repay him for his many kindnesses.

At 2 o'clock that afternoon the train broke corral, and for the first time I realized the slowness
of our progress, and the long trip before us. Under the most favorable circumstances we could
not make over ten miles a day and more often at the beginning three, five and seven.

Our bed was mother earth, a rubber blanket and buffalo robe the mattress, two pairs of blankets
the covering, Heaven's canopy the roof; the stars our silent sentinels. The days were warm,
the nights cool. We would go into camp at sundown. The cattle were unyoked and driven to water.
After grub the night herder and one of the drivers would take them in charge, and if there
were no Indians following, would drive them to a good grazing spot over the bluffs.

We passed through Kansas, after crossing the Little and Big Blue rivers, and part of Nebraska
without seeing another log cabin or woods. Every fifteen or twenty miles there was a stage
station of the Ben Holiday coach line, which ran between Atchison, Kansas, and Sacramento,
California. At every station would be a relay of six horses, and by driving night and day would
make one hundred miles every twenty-four hours. They were accompanied by a guard of United
States soldiers on top of coaches and on horseback.

CHAPTER II

ARRIVAL AT FORT CARNEY

 Arriving at Fort Carney we struck the Platte River
trail leading to Denver. We were compelled by United States army
officers to halt and await the arrival of a train of fifty armed men
before being allowed to proceed. In a few hours the required number
came up, together with three wagon loads of pilgrims. No train was
permitted to pass a Government fort without one hundred well-armed
men; but once beyond the fort, they would become separated and therein
lay the danger.

A captain was appointed by the commander of the fort to take charge. Here we struck the plains
proper, or the great American desert, as it was often called, the home of the desperate Indians,
degraded half-breeds, and the squaw man--white men with Indian wives--who were at that time
either French or Spanish; also the fearless hunters and trappers with nerves of steel, outdoing
the bravest Indian in daring and the toughest grizzly in endurance. It is a matter of record
that these men of iron were capable and some did amputate their own limbs. A knife sharpened
as keen as a razor's edge would cut the flesh; another hacked into a saw would separate the
bones and sensitive marrow; while an iron heated to white heat seared up the arteries and the
trick was done. There was no anesthetic in those days.

There were also the cattle and mule thieves who lived in the bluffs, miles from the trail of
white men, a tough lot of desperadoes, believing in the adage "Dead men tell no tales."

There were the ranchmen at intervals of twenty, fifty and a hundred miles, who sold to the
pilgrims supplies, such as canned goods, playing cards, whiskey of the vilest type, and traded
worn-out cattle, doctored to look well for a few days and then give out, thus cheating freighters
and pilgrims alike.

These adobe ranches were built of sod cut in lengths of from two to four feet, four inches
in thickness and eighteen inches in width and laid grass side down. The side walls were laid
either single or double, six feet in height, with the end walls tapering upward. A long pole
was then placed from peak to peak and shorter poles from side walls to ridge pole. Four inches
of grass covered the poles and the same depth of earth completed the structure making the best
fortifications ever devised; no bullet was able to penetrate their sides nor could fire burn
them. The poles used for building these adobe ranches were in most cases hauled two hundred
miles and in some cases three hundred miles.

WILD ANIMALS OF THE WEST

On a graceful slope roamed immense herds of buffalo, bands of elk, thousands of antelope, herds
of black-and white-tail deer and the large gray wolf. Coyotes about the size of a shepherd
dog would assemble on the high bluffs or invade the camp and make night hideous by their continuous
and almost perfect imitation of a human baby's cry, making sleep impossible. The prairie dog,
the fierce rattlesnake, and the beautiful little white burrowing-owl, occupied the same hole
in the ground, making a queer family combination. Contrary to the belief of all dwellers and
travelers of the plains in that day, Colonel Roosevelt claims it is not a fact that the three
mentioned animals occupied the same quarters together, and that the story is a myth.

The little prairie dogs had their villages the same as the Indians. I have frequently seen
a prairie dog come out and return into the same hole in the ground. I have also seen a beautiful
little white owl silently perched at the side of the same hole and finally enter it, and a
few moments later a fierce rattlesnake would crawl into the same hole. Whether it was the snake's
permanent abode and it went in for a much needed rest, or whether it was an enemy to the others
and the snake went in for a game supper of prairie dog puppies and owl squabs, departing by
another route, I am unable to say, as I never took the trouble to investigate one of the holes
to confirm the fact. If I had, I would in all probability still be digging. However, in this
case, I am inclined to give Colonel Roosevelt the benefit of the doubt for the reason that
if nature had not created an enemy to check their increase, the prairie dog would now over-run
the country, as they multiply faster than any known animal, and are very destructive to the
farm. The Government, through its agents, have destroyed thousands every year in the West by
distributing poisoned grain. Last, but not least, of the life of the plains was the Pole Cat.
Conscious of his own ability to protect himself, he would often invade the camps at night,
making the life of the sleeper miserable.

TROUBLE EN ROUTE

After leaving Fort Carney our troubles began. Many of the drivers were as treacherous as the
Indians and would bear watching. One of them in our mess was a former bushwhacker, who bore
many scars of his former unsavory life, one of which was the loss of an eye, which did not
make him a very desirable acquaintance, much less a companion. He was of an ugly disposition,
very seldom speaking to anyone and very few taking the trouble to speak to him. At times he
acted as if he had been taking something stronger than coffee, but as we had not camped near
any ranch where the poison could be procured, I came to the conclusion that he was a dope fiend.
In some mysterious manner we had lost one of our cups, and at each meal for a week it fell
to the lot of this particular bushwhacker to get left. He at last broke his long silence, and
in anger with oaths, vowed he would not eat another meal without a cup, and would certainly
take one from somebody, if obliged to. As soon as the call for grub was heard the next morning,
all rushed simultaneously for a cup, and Mr. Bushwhacker got left again. Without ceremony he
proceeded to make good his threat, the second cook being his victim.

TROUBLE EN ROUTE

For his trouble he received a stinging blow over his good eye, and was sent sprawling in the
alkali dust. Not being in the least dismayed, he rushed for another and received a similar
salute on the jaw, doubling him up and bringing him to the earth. By this time both messes
joined in forming a ring and called for fair play. Mr. Perry tried hard to stop it, but was
finally convinced that it was better, policy to let them have it out. How many times the fellow
was knocked down, I do not remember, but the last round finished him. We carried him to the
shady side of his wagon, covered him with a blanket and resumed our meal. On going into corral,
we always took our revolvers off and placed them where they could easily be reached. We had
been eating but a short time, when the report of a gun rang out and each man fairly flew for
his weapons. Indians seldom made an attack except at early morning, when the oxen were being
yoked or when we were going into corral at night. To the surprise of everyone Mr. Bushwhacker
had taken another lease of life and with a revolver in each hand was firing at anyone his disturbed
brain suggested. He was quick of action, firing and reloading with rapidity, and soon had the
entire camp playing hide and seek between, around and under the wagons to keep out of the range
of his guns, which we succeeded in doing, for not a man was hit. Finally, two of the drivers
succeeded in getting behind him and overpowered him. His brother bushwhackers were in for lynching
him on the spot, but wiser council prevailed, and his disposal was left to Mr. Perry who sentenced
him to be escorted back three miles from the corral and left to walk the remaining two miles
to Fort Carney alone. He covered less than a mile when he was captured by the Indians. I was
obliged then to drive his team. A few evenings later my chum and friend were lounging by the
side of my wagon smoking, and otherwise passing the time away, when finally the conversation
turned to the departed driver who by that time had undoubtedly been disposed of by the Indians--not
a very pleasant thought--but we consoled ourselves with the fact that no one was to blame but
himself. My chum inquired the contents of my prairie schooner, and I replied that I did not
know, but would investigate. Suiting the action to the word I crawled in, struck a match, and
found a case labeled Hostetters' Bitters. Its ingredients were one drop of Bitters and the
remainder, poor liquor. I soon found a case that had been opened, pulled out a bottle and sampled
it. The old story came to me about the Irish saloonkeeper and his bartender. I called my chum
and asked him if Murphy was good for a drink, he replied, "Has he got it?" "He has?" "He is
then!" and we all were. I thought it would be impossible for the secret to be kept, but it
was until we were on the last leg to Denver. The entire load consisted of cases of the Bitters.
Fights were of frequent occurrence during the remainder of the trip, Mr. Perry being powerless
to prevent them.

Arriving at Central City where the Bitters were consigned, the consignee reported to the freighter
that the load just received consisted of one-half Bitters, the remainder Platte river water.
Each man had twenty dollars deducted from his pay, and a large number of the drivers, in addition,
bore earmarks of its effect.

