This extraordinary and beautiful collection is now being carefully preserved by an appreciative
daughter, who tells how it was possible for her mother to accomplish this great task of needlework.
The maker was the wife of a busy and prosperous farmer of northern Indiana. As on all farms
in that region during the pioneer days, the home was the centre of manufacture of those various
articles necessary to the welfare and comfort of the family. This indulgent farmer, realizing
that his wife's quilt making was work of a higher plane than routine housekeeping, employed
two stout daughters of a less fortunate neighbour to relieve her of the heavier household duties.
Such work that required her direct supervision, as jelly making and fruit canning, was done
in the evenings. This allowed the ambitious little woman ample time to pursue her art during
the bright clear hours of daylight.

Belonging to the collections of individuals are many old quilts which possess more than ordinary
interest, not so much on account of their beauty or unusual patterns, but because of their
connection with some notable personage or historic event. The number of quilts which are never
used, but which are most carefully treasured by their owners on account of some sentimental
or historic association, is far greater than generally supposed. While most of the old quilts
so jealously hidden in closet and linen chest have no extraordinary beauty, yet from time to
time there comes into notice one which possesses--in addition to its interesting connection
with the past--an exquisite and mellow beauty which only tasteful design enhanced by age can give.

Quite often beautiful quilts are found in old trunks and bureaus, which have gathered dust
for untold years in attics and storerooms. Opportunities to ransack old garrets are greatly
appreciated by collectors, as the uncertainty of what may be found gives zest to their search.
It was of such old treasure trove that the hangings were found to make what Harriet Beecher
Stowe in her novel, "The Minister's Wooing," calls "the garret boudoir." This was a cozy little
enclosure made by hanging up old quilts, blankets, and coverlets so as to close off one corner
of the garret. Her description of an old quilt used in this connection is especially interesting.
It "was a bed quilt pieced in tiny blocks, none of them bigger than a sixpence, containing,
as Mrs. Katy said, pieces of the gowns of all her grandmothers, aunts, cousins, and female
relatives for years back; and mated to it was one of the blankets which had served Mrs. Scudder's
uncle in his bivouac at Valley Forge."

To view the real impromptu exhibitions of quilts--for which, by the way, no admission fee is
charged--one should drive along any country road on a bright sunny day in early spring. It
is at this time that the household bedding is given its annual airing, and consequently long
lines hung with quilts are frequent and interesting sights. During this periodical airing there
becomes apparent a seemingly close alliance between patchwork and nature, as upon the soft
green background of new leaves the beauty of the quilts is thrown into greater prominence.
All the colours of the rainbow can be seen in the many varieties of design, for there is not
a line that does not bear a startling "Lone Star of Texas," "Rising Sun," or some equally attractive
pattern. Gentle breezes stir the quilts so that their designs and colours gain in beauty as
they slowly wave to and fro. When the apple, cherry, and peach trees put on their new spring
dresses of delicate blossoms and stand in graceful groups in the background, then the picture
becomes even more charming.

This periodical airing spreads from neighbour to neighbour, and as one sunny day follows another
all the clothes lines become weighted with burdens of brightest hues. Of course, there is no
rivalry between owners, or no unworthy desire to show off, yet, have you ever seen a line full
of quilts hung wrong side out? It has been suggested that at an exhibition is the logical place
to see quilts bloom. Yet, while it is a rare chance to see quilts of all kinds and in all states
of preservation, yet it is much like massing our wild Sweet Williams, Spring Beauties, and
Violets in a crowded greenhouse. They bravely do their best, but you can fairly see them gasping
for the fresh, free air of their woodland homes. A quilt hung on a clothes line in the dooryard
and idly flapping in the wind receives twice the appreciation given one which is sedately folded
across a wire with many others in a crowded, jealous row.

CHAPTER VIII

THE QUILT'S PLACE IN AMERICAN HOMES

The dominant characteristics of quilt making are companionship and concentrated interest. Both
of these qualities, or--better yet--virtues, must be in evidence in order to bring a quilt
to successful completion. The sociable, gossipy "quilting bee," where the quilt is put together
and quilted, has planted in every community in which it is an institution the seeds of numberless
lifelong friendships. These friendships are being made over the quilting frames to-day just
as they were in the pioneer times when a "quilting" was almost the only social diversion. Content
with life, fixity of purpose, development of individuality, all are brought forth in every
woman who plans and pieces a quilt. The reward of her work lies, not only in the pleasure of
doing, but also in the joy of possession--which can be passed on even to future generations,
for a well-made quilt is a lasting treasure.

All this is quite apart from the strictly useful functions which quilts perform so creditably
in every home, for quilts are useful as well as artistic. In summer nights they are the ideal
emergency covering for the cool hour before dawn, or after a rapid drop in temperature, caused
by a passing thunderstorm. But in the long chill nights of winter, when the snow sifts in through
the partly raised window and all mankind snuggles deeper into the bed clothes, then all quilts
may be truly said to do their duty. And right well they do it, too, as all those who love to
linger within their cozy shelter on frosty December mornings will testify.

As a promoter of good-will and neighbourly interest during the times when our new country was
being settled, and woman's social intercourse was very limited, the "quilting bee" holds a
worthy place close beside the meeting-house. The feeling of coöperation so noticeable in all
men and growing communities, and which is really essential for their success, is aptly described
in the old "Annals of Tennessee," published by Dr. J. G. M. Ramsey in 1853 ("Dedicated to the
surviving pioneers of Tennessee"):

"To say of one he has no neighbours was sufficient, in those times of mutual wants and mutual
benefactions, to make the churl infamous and execrable. A failure to ask a neighbour to a raising,
clearing, a chopping frolic, or his family to a quilting, was considered a high indignity;
such an one, too, as required to be explained or atoned for at the next muster or county court.
Each settler was not only willing but desirous to contribute his share to the general comfort
and public improvement, and felt aggrieved and insulted if the opportunity to do so were withheld.
'It is a poor dog that is not worth whistling for,' replied the indignant neighbour who was
allowed to remain at home, at his own work, while a house raising was going on in the neighbourhood.
'What injury have I done that I am slighted so?'"

Quilts occupied a preëminent place in the rural social scheme, and the quilting bees were one
of the few social diversions afforded outside of the church. Much drudgery was lightened by
the joyful anticipation of a neighbourhood quilting bee. The preparations for such an important
event were often quite elaborate. As a form of entertainment quilting bees have stood the test
of time, and from colonial days down to the present have furnished much pleasure in country
communities.

In a quaint little book published in 1872 by Mrs. P. G. Gibbons, under the title, "Pennsylvania
Dutch," is a detailed description of a country quilting that Mrs. Gibbons attended. The exact
date of this social affair is not given, but judging from other closely related incidents mentioned
by the writer, it must have taken place about 1840, in Lancaster County, Pennsylvania. The
account reads as follows:

"Aunt Sally had her quilt up in her landlord's east room, for her own was too small. However,
at about eleven she called us over to dinner, for people who have breakfasted at five or six
have an appetite at eleven.

"We found on the table beefsteaks, boiled pork, sweet potatoes, 'Kohl-slaw,' pickled cucumbers
and red beets, apple butter and preserved peaches, pumpkin and apple pie, sponge cake and coffee.
After dinner came our next neighbours, 'the maids,' Susy and Katy Groff, who live in single
blessedness and great neatness. They wore pretty, clear-starched Mennonist caps, very plain.
Katy is a sweet-looking woman and, although she is more than sixty years old, her forehead
is almost unwrinkled, and her fine hair is still brown. It was late when the farmer's wife
came--three o'clock; for she had been to Lancaster. She wore hoops and was of the 'world's
people.' These women all spoke 'Dutch,' for the maids, whose ancestors came here probably one
hundred and fifty years ago, do not speak English with fluency yet.

"The first subject of conversation was the fall house-cleaning; and I heard mention of 'die
carpett hinaus an der fence' and 'die fenshter und die porch,' and the exclamation, 'My goodness,
es was schlimm.' I quilted faster than Katy Groff, who showed me her hands, and said, 'You
have not been corn husking, as I have.'

"So we quilted and rolled, talked and laughed, got one quilt done, and put in another. The
work was not fine; we laid it out by chalking around a small plate. Aunt Sally's desire was
rather to get her quilting finished upon this great occasion than for us to put in a quantity
of fine needlework. About five o'clock we were called to supper. I need not tell you all the
particulars of this plentiful meal; but the stewed chicken was tender and we had coffee again.

"Polly M's husband now came over the creek in the boat, to take her home, and he warned her
against the evening dampness. The rest of us quilted a while by candles, and got the second
quilt done at about seven. At this quilting there was little gossip, and less scandal. I displayed
my new alpaca and my dyed merino and the Philadelphia bonnet which exposes the back of my head
to the wintry blast. Polly, for her part, preferred a black silk sunbonnet; and so we parted,
with mutual invitations to visit."

The proverbial neatness of the ancestors of the Dutch colonists in America was characteristic
of their homes in the new land. This is well illustrated in the following description of a
Pennsylvania Dutch farmer's home, similar to the one in which the quilting above mentioned
took place: "We keep one fire in winter. This is in the kitchen which, with nice housekeepers,
is the abode of neatness, with its rag carpet and brightly polished stove. Adjoining the kitchen
is a state apartment, also rag-carpeted, and called 'the room.' Will you go upstairs in a neat
Dutch farmhouse? There are rag carpets again. Gay quilts are on the best beds, where green
and red calico, perhaps in the form of a basket, are displayed on a white ground; or the beds
bear brilliant coverlets of red, white, and blue, as if to 'make the rash gazer wipe his eyes.'"

There are many things to induce women to piece quilts. The desire for a handsome bed furnishing,
or the wish to make a gift of one to a dear friend, have inspired some women to make quilts.
With others, quilt making is a recreation, a diversion, a means of occupying restless fingers.
However, the real inducement is love of the work; because the desire to make a quilt exceeds
all other desires. In such a case it is worked on persistently, laid aside reluctantly, and
taken up each time with renewed interest and pleasure. It is this intense interest in the work
which produces the most beautiful quilts. On quilts that are made because of the genuine interest
in the work, the most painstaking efforts are put forth; the passing of time is not considered;
and the belief of the majority of such quilt makers, though unconfessed, doubtless, is the
equivalent of the old Arab proverb that "Slowness comes from God, but hurry from the devil."

All women who are lonely do not live in isolated farmhouses, prairie shacks, or remote villages.
In reality, there are more idle, listless hands in the hearts of crowded bustling cities than
in the quiet country. City women, surrounded by many enticing distractions, are turning more
and more to patchwork as a fascinating yet nerve-soothing occupation. Not only is there a sort
of companionship between the maker and the quilt, but there is also the great benefit derived
from having found a new interest in life, something worth while that can be built up by one's
own efforts.

An anecdote is told of a woman living in a quiet little New England village who complained
of her loneliness there, where the quilting bees were the only saving features of an otherwise
colourless existence. She told the interested listener that in this out-of-the-way hamlet she
did not mind the monotony much because there were plenty of "quiltings," adding that she had
helped that winter at more than twenty-five quilting bees; besides this, she had made a quilt
for herself and also helped on some of those of her immediate neighbours.

American women rarely think of quilts as being made or used outside of their own country. In
reality quilts are made in almost every land on the face of the earth. Years ago, when the
first New England missionaries were sent to the Hawaiian Islands, the native women were taught
to piece quilts, which they continue to do down to this day. These Hawaiian women treasure
their handiwork greatly, and some very old and beautiful quilts are to be found among these
islands. In creating their patchwork they have wandered from the Puritanical designs of their
teachers, and have intermingled with the conventional figures the gorgeous flowers that bloom
beside their leaf-thatched, vine-covered huts. To these women, also, patchwork fills a place.
It affords a means of expression for individuality and originality in the same way that it
does for the lonely New England women and for the isolated mountaineers of Kentucky.

Harriet Beecher Stowe, immortalized by "Uncle Tom's Cabin," produced other stories, not now
so familiar to us as to our countrymen of the Civil War period, which showed an intimate knowledge
of the home life of the American people as well as the vital questions of her day. In her novel
entitled the "Minister's Wooing," which ran first as a serial in the Atlantic Monthly in 1859,
she describes a quilting supposed to have been given about the year 1800. Here we can view
at close range a real old-fashioned quilting, and gain some insight into its various incidents
of sociability and gossip, typical of an early New England seafaring village, as set forth
in Mrs. Stowe's inimitable style:

"By two o'clock a goodly company began to assemble. Mrs. Deacon Twitchel arrived, soft, pillowy,
and plaintive as ever, accompanied by Cerinthy Ann, a comely damsel, tall and trim, with a
bright black eye and a most vigorous and determined style of movement. Good Mrs. Jones, broad,
expansive, and solid, having vegetated tranquilly on in the cabbage garden of the virtues since
three years ago, when she graced our tea party, was now as well preserved as ever, and brought
some fresh butter, a tin pail of cream, and a loaf of cake made after a new Philadelphia receipt.
The tall, spare, angular figure of Mrs. Simeon Brown alone was wanting; but she patronized
Mrs. Scudder no more, and tossed her head with a becoming pride when her name was mentioned.

"The quilt pattern was gloriously drawn in oak leaves, done in indigo; and soon all the company,
young and old, were passing busy fingers over it, and conversation went on briskly.

"Madame de Frontignac, we must not forget to say, had entered with hearty abandon into the
spirit of the day. She had dressed the tall china vases on the mantelpiece, and, departing
from the usual rule of an equal mixture of roses and asparagus bushes, had constructed two
quaint and graceful bouquets where garden flowers were mingled with drooping grasses and trailing
wild vines, forming a graceful combination which excited the surprise of all who saw it.

"'It's the very first time in my life that I ever saw grass put into a flower pot,' said Miss
Prissy, 'but I must say it looks as handsome as a picture. Mary, I must say,' she added, in
an aside, 'I think that Madame de Frontignac is the sweetest dressing and appearing creature
I ever saw; she don't dress up nor put on airs, but she seems to see in a minute how things
ought to go; and if it's only a bit of grass, or leaf, or wild vine, that she puts in her hair,
why, it seems to come just right. I should like to make her a dress, for I know she would understand
my fit; do speak to her, Mary, in case she should want a dress fitted here, to let me try it.'

"At the quilting Madame de Frontignac would have her seat, and soon won the respect of the
party by the dexterity with which she used her needle; though, when it was whispered that she
learned to quilt among the nuns, some of the elderly ladies exhibited a slight uneasiness,
as being rather doubtful whether they might not be encouraging papistical opinions by allowing
her an equal share in the work of getting up their minister's bed quilt; but the younger part
of the company was quite captivated by her foreign air and the pretty manner in which she lisped
her English; and Cerinthy Ann even went so far as to horrify her mother by saying that she
wished she'd been educated in a convent herself, a declaration which arose less from native
depravity than from a certain vigorous disposition, which often shows itself in young people,
to shock the current opinions of their elders and betters. Of course, the conversation took
a general turn, somewhat in unison with the spirit of the occasion; and whenever it flagged,
some allusion to a forthcoming wedding, or some sly hint at the future young Madame of the
parish was sufficient to awaken the dormant animation of the company.

"Cerinthy Ann contrived to produce an agreeable electric shock by declaring that for her part
she never could see into it how any girl could marry a minister; that she should as soon think
of setting up housekeeping in a meeting-house.

"'Oh, Cerinthy Ann!' exclaimed her mother, 'how can you go on so?'

"'It's a fact,' said the adventurous damsel; 'now other men let you have some peace, but a
minister's always round under your feet.'

"'So you think the less you see of a husband, the better?' said one of the ladies.

"'Just my views!' said Cerinthy, giving a decided snip to her thread with her scissors. 'I
like the Nantucketers, that go off on four years' voyages, and leave their wives a clear field.
If ever I get married, I'm going up to have one of those fellows.'

"It is to be remarked, in passing, that Miss Cerinthy Ann was at this very time receiving surreptitious
visits from a consumptive-looking, conscientious young theological candidate, who came occasionally
to preach in the vicinity, and put up at the house of the deacon, her father. This good young
man, being violently attacked on the doctrine of election by Miss Cerinthy, had been drawn
on to illustrate it in a most practical manner, to her comprehension; and it was the consciousness
of the weak and tottering state of the internal garrison that added vigour to the young lady's
tones. As Mary had been the chosen confidante of the progress of this affair, she was quietly
amused at the demonstration.

"'You'd better take care, Cerinthy Ann,' said her mother, 'they say "that those who sing before
breakfast will cry before supper." Girls talk about getting married,' she said, relapsing into
a gentle melancholy, 'without realizing its awful responsibilities.'

"'Oh, as to that,' said Cerinthy, 'I've been practising on my pudding now these six years,
and I shouldn't be afraid to throw one up chimney with any girl.'

"This speech was founded on a tradition, current in those times, that no young lady was fit
to be married till she could construct a boiled Indian pudding of such consistency that it
could be thrown up a chimney and come down on the ground outside without breaking; and the
consequence of Cerinthy Ann's sally was a general laugh.

"'Girls ain't what they used to be in my day,' sententiously remarked an elderly lady. 'I remember
my mother told me when she was thirteen she could knit a long cotton stocking in a day.'

"'I haven't much faith in these stories of old times, have you, girls?' said Cerinthy, appealing
to the younger members at the frame.

"'At any rate,' said Mrs. Twitchel, 'our minister's wife will be a pattern; I don't know anybody
that goes beyond her either in spinning or fine stitching.'

"Mary sat as placid and disengaged as the new moon, and listened to the chatter of old and
young with the easy quietness of a young heart that has early outlived life and looks on everything
in the world from some gentle, restful eminence far on toward a better home. She smiled at
everybody's word, had a quick eye for everybody's wants, and was ready with thimble, scissors,
or thread, whenever any one needed them; but once, when there was a pause in the conversation,
she and Mrs. Marvyn were both discovered to have stolen away. They were seated on the bed in
Mary's little room, with their arms around each other, communing in low and gentle tones.

"'Mary, my dear child,' said her friend, 'this event is very pleasant to me, because it places
you permanently near me. I did not know but eventually this sweet face might lead to my losing
you who are in some respects the dearest friend I have.'

"'You might be sure,' said Mary, 'I never would have married, except that my mother's happiness
and the happiness of so good a friend seemed to depend on it. When we renounce self in anything
we have reason to hope for God's blessing; and so I feel assured of a peaceful life in the
course I have taken. You will always be as a mother to me,' she added, laying her head on her
friend's shoulder.

"'Yes,' said Mrs. Marvyn; 'and I must not let myself think a moment how dear it might have
been to have you more my own. If you feel really, truly happy, if you can enter on this life
without any misgivings----'

"'I can,' said Mary firmly.

"At this instant, very strangely, the string which confined a wreath of seashells around her
glass, having been long undermined by moths, suddenly broke and fell down, scattering the shells
upon the floor.

"Both women started, for the string of shells had been placed there by James; and though neither
was superstitious, this was one of those odd coincidences that make hearts throb.

"'Dear boy!' said Mary, gathering the shells up tenderly; 'wherever he is, I shall never cease
to love him. It makes me feel sad to see this come down; but it is only an accident; nothing
of him will ever fall out of my heart.'

"Mrs. Marvyn clasped Mary closer to her, with tears in her eyes.

"'I'll tell you what, Mary, it must have been the moths did that,' said Miss Prissy, who had
been standing, unobserved, at the door for a moment back; 'moths will eat away strings just
so. Last week Miss Vernon's great family picture fell down because the moths eat through the
cord; people ought to use twine or cotton string always. But I came to tell you that supper
is all set, and the doctor out of his study, and all the people are wondering where you are.'

"Mary and Mrs. Marvyn gave a hasty glance at themselves in the glass, to be assured of their
good keeping, and went into the great kitchen, where a long table stood exhibiting all that
plentitude of provision which the immortal description of Washington Irving has saved us the
trouble of recapitulating in detail.

"The husbands, brothers, and lovers had come in, and the scene was redolent of gayety. When
Mary made her appearance, there was a moment's pause, till she was conducted to the side of
the doctor; when, raising his hand, he invoked a grace upon the loaded board.

"Unrestrained gayeties followed. Groups of young men and maidens chatted together, and all
the gallantries of the times were enacted. Serious matrons commented on the cake, and told
each other high and particular secrets in the culinary art which they drew from remote family
archives. One might have learned in that instructive assembly how best to keep moths out of
blankets, how to make fritters of Indian corn undistinguishable from oysters, how to bring
up babies by hand, how to mend a cracked teapot, how to take out grease from a brocade, how
to reconcile absolute decrees with free will, how to make five yards of cloth answer the purpose
of six, and how to put down the Democratic party.

"Miss Prissy was in her glory; every bow of her best cap was alive with excitement, and she
presented to the eyes of the astonished Newport gentry an animated receipt book. Some of the
information she communicated, indeed, was so valuable and important that she could not trust
the air with it, but whispered the most important portions in a confidential tone. Among the
crowd, Cerinthy Ann's theological admirer was observed in deeply reflective attitude; and that
high-spirited young lady added further to his convictions of the total depravity of the species
by vexing and discomposing him in those thousand ways in which a lively, ill-conditioned young
woman will put to rout a serious, well-disposed young man, comforting herself with the reflection
that by and by she would repent of all her sins in a lump together.

"Vain, transitory splendours! Even this evening, so glorious, so heart cheering, so fruitful
in instruction and amusement, could not last forever. Gradually the company broke up; the matrons
mounted soberly on horseback behind their spouses, and Cerinthy consoled her clerical friend
by giving him an opportunity to read her a lecture on the way home, if he found the courage
to do so.

"Mr. and Mrs. Marvyn and Candace wound their way soberly homeward; the doctor returned to his
study for nightly devotions; and before long sleep settled down on the brown cottage.

"'I'll tell you what, Cato,' said Candace, before composing herself to sleep, 'I can't feel
it in my bones dat dis yer weddin's gwine to come off yit.'"

LIST OF QUILT NAMES

ARRANGED ALPHABETICALLY

    Air Castle
    Alabama Beauty
    Album
    All Tangled Up
    Alpine Rose
    American Log Patch
    Apple Hexagon
    Arabic Lattice
    Arkansas Traveller
    Art Square
    Ashland Rose
    Aunt Eliza's Star Point
    Aunt Sukey's Patch
    Autograph Quilt

    Bachelor's Puzzle
    Barrister's Blocks
    Base Ball
    Basket of Lilies
    Basket Quilt
    Bat's Wing
    Bear's Foot
    Bear's Paws
    Bedtime
    Beggar's Blocks
    Big Dipper
    Bird's Nest
    Blackford's Beauty
    Blazing Star
    Blind Man's Fancy
    Block Album
    Bluebird
    Boston Puzzle
    Bounding Betty
    Bouquet
    Box Blocks
    Boxed I's
    Boy's Nonsense
    Brick Pile
    Brickwork Quilt
    Broken Dish
    Brown-tailed Moth
    Brunswick Star
    Bunnies
    Bunnies and Baskets
    Butterflies

    Cactus Blossom
    Cake Stand
    California Oak Leaf
    California Rose
    California Star
    Capital I
    Carolina Lily
    Carpenter's Rule
    Carpenter's Square
    Cats and Mice
    Centennial
    Charm
    Charter Oak
    Cherry Basket
    Chicago Star
    Children's Delight
    Chimney Swallows
    Christmas Tree
    Chrysanthemums
    Churn Dash
    Circle Within Circle
    Circuit Rider
    Cleveland Lilies
    Cluster of Stars
    Coarse Woven Patch
    Cockscomb
    Cog Wheel
    Columbian Puzzle
    Columbia Star
    Combination Star
    Compass
    Complex Rose
    Confederate Rose
    Continental
    Corn and Beans
    Cottage Tulip
    Country Farm
    Coxey's Camp
    Crazy Ann
    Crazy Quilt
    Crib Quilt
    Cross, The
    Cross and Crown
    Crosses and Losses
    Crosses and Stars
    Crossed Canoes
    Cross Roads to Texas
    Cross Within Cross
    Crow's Foot
    Cube Lattice
    Cube Work
    Cypress Leaf

    Daffodils and Butterflies
    Daisies
    Democrat Rose
    Devil's Claws
    Devil's Puzzle
    Diagonal Log Chain
    Diamond, The
    Diamond Cube
    Diamond Design
    Diamonds
    Diamond Star
    Disk, The
    Dogwood
    Domino
    Domino and Square
    Double Irish Chain
    Double Peony
    Double Squares
    Double Wrench
    Double X, No. 1
    Double X, No. 2
    Double X, No. 3
    Double X, No. 4
    Double Z
    Dove in the Window
    Dutchman's Puzzle
    Dutch Rose
    Drunkard's Patchwork
    Drunkard's Path
    Ducks and Ducklings

    Ecclesiastical
    Economy
    Eight Hands Around
    Eight-point Design
    Eight-pointed Star
    Enigma
    Evening Star
    Everybody's Favourite

    Fan
    Fan and Rainbow
    Fan Patch
    Fanny's Fan
    Fantastic Patch
    Feather Star
    Ferris Wheel
    Field Daisies
    Five-pointed Star
    Five Stripes
    Fleur-de-Lis
    Flower Basket
    Flower Pot
    Flutter Wheel
    Flying Bat
    Flying Star
    Fool's Puzzle
    Fool's Square
    Forbidden Fruit Tree
    Forest Pattern
    Four E's
    Four Frogs Quilt
    Four Little Birds
    Four Points
    Four Stars Patch
    Four X Star
    French Basket
    Friendship Quilt
    Fruit Basket

    Garden of Eden
    Garfield's Monument
    Gentleman's Fancy
    Georgetown Circle
    Girl's Joy
    Globe, The
    Golden Gates
    Goose in the Pond
    Goose Tracks
    Gourd Vine
    Grandmother's Choice
    Grandmother's Dream
    Grandmother's Own
    Grape Basket
    Grapes and Vines
    Grecian Design
    Greek Cross
    Greek Square

    Hairpin Catcher
    Hand, The
    Hands All Around
    Handy Andy
    Harrison Rose
    Harvest Rose
    Hearts and Gizzards
    Hen and Chickens
    Hexagonal
    Hickory Leaf
    Hobson's Kiss
    Home Treasure
    Honeycomb
    Honeycomb Patch
    Hour Glass
    House That Jack Built

    Ice Cream Bowl
    Imperial Tea
    Indiana Wreath
    Indian Hatchet
    Indian Plumes
    Interlaced Blocks
    Iris
    Irish Puzzle

    Jack's House
    Jacob's Ladder
    Job's Tears
    Johnny Around the Corner
    Joining Star
    Jonquils
    Joseph's Coat
    Joseph's Necktie

    Kansas Troubles
    King's Crown
    King's Crows

    Ladies' Beautiful Star
    Ladies' Delight
    Ladies' Wreath
    Lady Fingers
    Lady of the Lake
    Leap Frog
    Letter H
    Letter X
    Lily of the Valley
    Lily Quilt Pattern
    Lincoln's Platform
    Linton
    Little Beech Tree
    Little Red House, The
    Live Oak Tree
    Lobster, The
    Log Cabin
    Log Patch
    London Roads
    Love Rose
    Lover's Links

    Magic Circle
    Maltese Cross, No. 1
    Maltese Cross, No. 2
    Maple Leaf
    Mary's Garden
    May Berry Leaf
    Mayflower, The
    Memory Blocks
    Memory Circle
    Mexican Rose
    Missouri Beauty
    Mollie's Choice
    Moon and Stars
    Morning Glory
    Morning Glory Wreath
    Morning Star
    Mosaic (More than 25)
    Mother's Fancy
    Mrs. Cleveland's Choice
    Mrs. Morgan's Choice

    Needle Book
    Necktie
    New Album
    New Four Patch
    Nine Patch
    New Star
    No Name Quilt
    None Such
    Novel Star

    Oak Leaf and Acorns
    Oak Leaf and Tulip
    Ocean Waves
    Octagon
    Octagon File
    Odd Fellows' Chain
    Odd Patchwork
    Odd Pattern, An
    Odds and Ends
    Odd Star
    Ohio Beauty
    Oklahoma Boomer
    Old Homestead, The
    Old Maid's Puzzle
    Old Patchwork, An
    Old Scrap Patchwork
    Old Bachelor's Puzzle
    Old Tippecanoe
    Olive Branch
    Orange Peel

    Paving Blocks
    Pansies and Butterflies
    Peacocks and Flowers
    Peony Block
    Persian Palm Lily
    Philadelphia Beauty
    Philadelphia Pavement
    Philippines, The
    Pickle Dish
    Pilgrim's Pride
    Pincushion
    Pincushion and Burr
    Pineapple Patterns (3 in number)
    Pine Tree
    Pinwheel Square
    Poinsettia
    Poppy
    Prairie Rose
    Premium Star
    President's Quilt
    Princess Feather
    Priscilla, The
    Pullman Puzzle
    Puss-in-the-Corner
    Puzzle File
    Pyrotechnics

    Quartette, The

    Radical Rose
    Railroad, The
    Rainbow
    Red Cross
    Ribbon Squares
    Ribbon Star
    Right and Left
    Rising Sun
    Road to California
    Robbing Peter to Pay Paul
    Rockingham's Beauty
    Rocky Glen
    Rocky Road to California
    Rocky Road to Kansas
    Rolling Pinwheel
    Rolling Star
    Rolling Stone
    Roman Cross
    Roman Stripe
    Rose
    Rose Album
    Rose and Feather
    Rosebud and Leaves
    Rose of Dixie
    Rose of LeMoine
    Rose of St. Louis
    Rose of the Carolinas
    Rose of Sharon
    Rose Sprig
    Royal, The
    Royal Japanese Vase

    Sarah's Favourite
    Sashed Album
    Sashed Star
    Sawtooth Patchwork
    Scissor's Chain
    Seven Stars
    Shelf Chain
    Shield
    Shoo Fly
    Shooting Star
    Simple Design
    Single Sunflowers
    Sister's Choice
    Snail's Trail, The
    Snowball
    Snowflake
    Solomon's Temple
    Solomon's Crown
    Spider's Den
    Spider's Web
    Spools
    Square and a Half
    Square and Swallow
    Square and Triangle
    Square Log Cabin
    Squares and Stars
    Squares and Stripes
    Star, A
    Star and Chains
    Star and Cross
    Star and Cubes
    Star and Squares
    Star of Bethlehem
    Star of Many Points
    Star of Texas
    Star of the East
    Star Lane
    Star Puzzle
    Star-Spangled Banner
    Stars upon Stars
    State House Steps
    Steps to the Altar
    St. Louis Star
    Stone Wall
    Storm at Sea
    Strawberry
    Stripe Squares
    Sugar Loaf
    Sunbonnet Lassies
    Sunburst
    Sunflowers
    Sunshine
    Swarm of Bees
    Sweet Gum Leaf
    Swinging Corners
    Swing in the Centre

    Tangled Garter
    Tassel Plant
    Tea Leaf
    Temperance Tree
    Texas Flower
    Texas Tears
    Three-flowered Sunflower
    Tick-Tack-Toe
    Tile Patchwork
    Toad in the Puddle
    Tree of Paradise
    Triangular Triangle
    Triangle Puzzle
    True Lover's Knot
    Tufted Cherry
    Tulip Blocks
    Tulip in Vase
    Tulip Lady Finger
    Tulip Tree Leaves
    Tumbler, The
    Twin Sisters
    Twinkling Star
    Twist and Turn
    Twist Patchwork
    Two Doves, The

    Union
    Union Calico Quilt
    Union Star
    Unknown Star

