I thought that terrible day would never have an end. Mr. Christie stayed with us until dark,
and then he took me home with him to supper, that I might get a little change and rest before
my night watch. I think they knew how tired I was, worn out more by feeling than by want of
sleep, and they were very good to me. I do not think my own mother could have been more kind
to me than Mrs. Christie was that night. She told me that she would have had a boy nearly as
old as I was if he had lived, but he had died when he was very young; and then they had had
no children for many years, not until Marjorie was born.

'Your mother was so good to me when my baby died,' she said. 'I thought I should never be happy
again, but she came and talked to me, and made me look from my sorrow to my little boy's gain,
and I think her kindness to me and the loving words she spoke made me love her more than ever.'

I felt much better for the good supper, and for the kind words of these dear people, and I
went back determined to do all I could for poor Polly and her child through that sorrowful
night. I felt so grateful to the Lord Jesus Christ for all He had done for me, and I was very
glad to be able to do any little thing to show my love to Him. It seemed to me then, and it
seems to me still, that the way in which we can please Him best is by showing kindness to His
children. I remembered a verse about a cup of cold water being noticed by Him, if given for
His sake, and I thought to myself, 'Polly is not in need of cold water, for she is too cold
already, but I might make her a cup of tea.'

The fire was out, and the little kitchen, which was usually so neat, was all in confusion.
I lighted the lamp that I might see what I was about, and then I tried to put the little place
in order. First I found sticks and coal, and lighted a fire; then, whilst my fire was burning
up, I cleared the table, carried the dirty plates and cups into the small back kitchen, found
a tablecloth and a clean cup and saucer, and filled the kettle. As soon as the fire was hot
enough I put the kettle on, and cutting a slice from the loaf I made some nice crisp toast,
such as my aunt used to like when she was ill. Then I heated a plate, and buttered the toast,
and set it down by the fire. By this time the kettle was boiling and I made the tea, and I
said in my heart when all was finished, 'Lord Jesus, I do this for Thee.'

Then I went upstairs to my hardest task of all, namely, to persuade Polly to come down to eat
the little meal I had prepared.

Polly was, as I had expected, most unwilling to leave the child, and at first she firmly declined
to move, and would not listen to my pleading words. Yet I could see that she was almost fainting,
and I knew that she would need all the strength that she could muster for the night which lay
before us. Who knew what that night would bring?

I therefore spoke to her very firmly, telling her that I was willing and anxious to help her
in her trouble, but that, if I was to be any use to her, she must not refuse to go downstairs
for a few minutes at least, and I promised her to watch little John very carefully, and to
call her at once if I saw any change in the child. She obeyed me at last, and I heard her weary
footsteps descending the steep stairs.

When I was left alone, I saw that Polly's Bible was lying open by the little oil-lamp which
stood on the table, upon which had been placed the medicine and milk for little John's use.
I went up to it, and my eye fell upon these words:--

'If ye abide in Me, and My words abide in you, ye shall ask what ye will, and it shall be done
unto you.'

It seemed to me as if that verse was God's direct message to me that night. I saw it as clearly
and distinctly as if the page had been lighted with electric light. 'Two conditions and a promise,'
I said to myself; 'if only the conditions are fulfilled, the promise is sure.'

What are the two conditions? (1) 'If ye abide in Me.' I asked myself if I was fulfilling that
condition. I humbly hoped I was; for, oh, I longed to be in Christ, saved by Him, more than
I longed for anything else in this world.

(2) 'If My words abide in you.' Was I fulfilling the second condition? Again I humbly hoped
that I was; for I felt that if Christ told me to go to the North Pole, or to an African desert,
I would obey gladly. I would go anywhere, I would do anything, to show Him how grateful I was
for His love to me.

Then might I claim the promise? I believed that I might.

I laid Polly's Bible on the bed. I knelt down beside little John. I put my finger on the promise,
and I prayed, as I had never prayed before, for help in this time of need. I felt very strongly
that all power was in the hands of Christ, and that He who healed the sick on earth had lost
none of His power, now that He was exalted to the throne of God. I besought Him to come into
that room that very night, and to touch and heal little John. And as I rose from my knees I
felt that my prayer was heard.

Polly had not returned, so I went to the top of the stairs and listened, and I heard the sound
of sobbing. I was thankful to hear it; the tears had come at last, and they would relieve the
poor, weary, over-strained heart.

Little John was very quiet, so I crept downstairs. I found to my joy that Polly had eaten most
of the toast, and had drunk the tea, and now she was sitting with her feet on the fender and
her head in her hands, sobbing as if her heart would break. What was it that had brought the
tears? She had not cried when the empty boat had come ashore; she had shed no tear when the
doctor's face had told her that he had no hope for the child; what was it that had helped her
to give way to the tears which were such a relief to her? It was a very simple thing. She had
picked up from the floor a little toy, a tiny roughly-shaped boat, which Duncan had made for
the child, and which had been little John's greatest treasure. There had come over her such
a rush of memories of the happy days of the past, gone, as she believed, for ever, of the father
whose fingers had so busily carved the boat for his boy, but who would never come back to her
again, and of the little lad passing away from her also, and leaving his treasured toy behind
him. All these sad but lovely memories came before her, as she took up the little boat and
pressed it to her lips. They came so strongly and with such power, that the tears which had
refused to come before came with them, and brought, as I felt sure they would, wonderful relief
to her over-strained heart.

'Polly,' I said, 'cheer up, don't lose heart; I believe little John will recover.'

'Thank you, sir, thank you,' she said; as she dried her eyes. 'I feel better now, a deal better,
I do. You have been good to me, sir. I'll go up again to him now.'

'All right, Polly,' I said; 'I'll make up the fire, and then I'll come and help you. He's asleep
now, Polly.'

'I'll creep quietly up, then, sir,' she said, and I saw as she rose to go that the stony look
had gone out of her face and that she was herself again.

That sleep lasted for hours. It was a quiet night, the wind had quite gone down, and everything
seemed more still after the tumult of the previous night. I was glad to see that Polly herself
at length fell asleep in her chair; little John's hand lay in hers, and I knew she would wake
with his least movement; but I was pleased to see it, for I felt sure that even a light sleep
would soothe and strengthen her.

I had just looked at my watch, and had seen that it was nearly half-past two, when I thought
I heard footsteps outside, and a moment afterwards there came a gentle knock at the door. It
seemed a strange time for a visitor, but I thought probably it was some neighbour come to offer
to help Polly in her long night watch, or perhaps it was Mr. Christie come to see how we were
getting on. I crept softly downstairs, lest either Polly or the child should wake, and carefully
unfastening the bolts I opened the door.

I nearly yelled with joy when I saw who was standing there. Never in all my life have I been
more glad to see any man than I was that night to see Duncan, alive and uninjured, whilst all
day long I had been picturing him being driven backwards and forwards by the waves, a drowned
corpse at the mercy of the relentless sea.

He grasped my hand and came in to the fire, but at first he could not speak.

'Sir,' he said at last, in a broken voice, 'am I too late? Tell me the truth, sir; don't hide
it over like; is little John dead?'

'No, Duncan,' I said, 'he still lives, and he is asleep; and, Duncan, I believe he will be
given back to you.'

'Thank God!' he said; 'thank God for that!'

For just a moment a doubt crossed my mind as to whether I ought to give him this hope, and
yet I rebuked myself for this doubt, for I was clinging to the promise, and the word of the
Lord was sure, and I believed that if what I asked was good for these poor souls it must be
granted to me.

Duncan had now sat down in his arm-chair, and by the light of the fire I could see that he
was faint and exhausted. He leant back wearily for some time and seemed unable to speak. I
had left the kettle on the fire, and I hastened to give him a cup of tea and something to eat.

Then I crept upstairs to see what was going on, but finding Polly and little John were still
both fast asleep, I came back to him. He was better for the tea, and able to talk to me.

'I've had an awful time, sir,' he said, in answer to my inquiry. 'Many and many's the time
since I was a boy that I've been near the dark valley, but this time, why, I think I've been
half-way down it, sir. How's my poor lass, sir?'

'Very cut up, Duncan,' I said. 'She thinks you are dead. Your boat came up with last night's tide.'

'Poor Polly, poor lass!' he said; 'I'll go to her.'

'Wait a little, Duncan,' I said; 'she is asleep now, and she will bear the joy better when
she wakes.'

'And my little lad?' he asked.

'Sleeping too, Duncan, so peacefully and quietly.'

'Well, it's hard not to go up, sir, but may be you're right.'

He waited very patiently for an hour, and when I crept up again at the end of that time Polly
and the child were both awake, and she was giving him some milk. Little John was quite conscious,
and looked more like himself than he had done since his illness began. He had no sooner finished
his milk, however, than he began his old weary cry, 'Come, daddy, come to little John.'

Polly burst into tears again when she heard him calling for the father whom she believed to
be dead; but I bent over the child and said, 'Yes, little John, daddy will come to you.'

I believe Polly fancied that I thought the child was dying, and that I meant his father's spirit
was coming to fetch him, for she only cried the more bitterly and said, 'Oh, little John, little
John!'

But when I added, 'Shall I fetch daddy, little John?' she sprang to her feet and looked at
me wildly, but without speaking a word.

There was no need for me to say more, for she heard the sound of a well-known footstep on the
stairs, and in another moment she was in her husband's arms.

I felt then that my work was over, and that the best thing that I could do would be to go to
bed. But I glanced back from the door as I went out, and I saw the little hands held out, and
I heard Duncan sob like a child as he cried, 'Oh, my little lad, my own little John, I never
thought to see you again!'

Chapter X

WE KNOW

The next day Duncan was able to tell me what he had passed through during that terrible night.
It seems he was separated from the other boats by the very first outburst of the gale, and
never saw them again through the long hours of that night of storm. For some considerable time
he and his mates, by straining every nerve, were able to keep the water out of their boat;
but as the night went on, and the sea grew rougher and the waves seemed mountains high, they
were compelled at last to own that their attempt was hopeless. 'At that time,' said Duncan,
'I just trusted my soul again to Christ, for I expected the next wave would sweep us to the
bottom.'

'Was I frightened, sir, did you say? No, I think not; I felt more awed like, if you understand,
and in them few moments all sorts of thoughts seemed to be running through my head, but through
them all was the thought of my poor lass, of Polly and little John. Yes, sir, of Polly and
little John, and I cried to Him as alone could help me, "O God," I said, "save me, for Polly
and little John want me so bad!" And He heard my prayer, sir. I've often thought how them fishermen
cried to Him in the storm that day, "Master, save us, we perish!" they said; and He heard their
cry, didn't He, sir? And He heard mine. Yes, He heard mine, for when the wave did come which
carried us over, the Mary Ann was driven right past where we were struggling in the water,
and we caught hold on her. We clung on for dear life, sir, but we couldn't have clung there
many minutes, for the sea was that cold and icy our hands was well-nigh frozen. But God Almighty
knew how to save us, and He sent a steamer to pick us up, in less than ten minutes after we
went overboard. And they were good to us, sir, for all they were foreign folk aboard. They
warmed us, and gave us hot coffee, and lent us dry clothes, and they ran into the Hull docks
in the afternoon and landed us there. Well, sir, you may be sure I came home as quick as ever
I could, for I thought maybe I should never see my little lad again. Hasn't God been good to
us, now hasn't He, sir?' he concluded, as he gently patted his little boy's hand.

The doctor gave a much better report of little John that day, although he said he was not yet
out of danger. But from that time he improved slowly but steadily, and before very long he
was able to lie once more in his father's arms, and to stroke his face with his little thin hand.

It was very touching to see the love and the gratitude of both Duncan and Polly; they could
not say enough about the help and comfort I had given them in their time of trouble, small
though I felt these to have been. If I had been a prince, I think they could not have made
more of me, and I believe I should have been altogether spoiled if I had stayed in Runswick
Bay much longer.

I had not touched my picture the whole of that week, for whilst our anxiety lasted I had no
heart or desire to paint. On Saturday I saw Marjorie and little Jack giving out their pink
papers, and I went to meet them.

'One for you, big Mr. Jack,' said the merry little rogue, as he threw it up in the air for
me to catch.

The subject for the following day I saw was to be these two words--WE KNOW. I thought, as I
put the paper in my pocket, how much had passed since last Sunday, and I thought also how differently
I felt with regard to the service on the shore, from what I had done when I received the last
pink paper. I had certainly no wish to run away to Kettleness, to be out of the way when it
took place.

Sunday morning was bright and beautiful, and little John was so much better that his father
was able to leave him and to take his place in the choir. I stood close to the old boat, and
Jack put his hand in mine, and let me look at his hymn-book as he sang.

There was a large congregation, the fine day had tempted them out, and I think the danger of
their companions and their narrow escape from death had stirred the hearts of the fishermen,
and had made many of them feel that 'it is not all of life to live, nor all of death to die.'

'My mates are here to-day, sir,' whispered Duncan, as he went forward to take his place in
the boat; 'it's the first time I've been able to persuade them to come. They see the good of
it now, sir, you see.'

Never have I heard any man pray more earnestly for a blessing than Mr. Christie did that day,
but I do not think even he prayed more earnestly than I did. My whole heart went out to God
that day, for was it not my first Sunday on the right side of the line?

And then came the address, and I never noticed a congregation more attentive than was that
one gathered on the shore that September morning. I can remember even now a good deal of the
sermon.

'WE KNOW,' he said; 'those are strong words, confident words. It is not, We imagine, or We
think. It is not even We hope, that would be wonderful; but it is something clearer and far
more distinct than that; it is WE KNOW.

'If I were to ask you fishermen, you visitors, you mothers, you little children, this question,
"Do you imagine you are on the shore now? Do you think you are here to-day? Do you hope you
are listening to me?" what would you answer me?

'You would say, "Mr. Christie, it is not a case of imagining, or thinking, or hoping; we know
we are here; we are sure of it."

'Now notice, that is the strong, confident word used in my text to-day. The holy apostle John
stands side by side with all of us who have come to Christ, and he bids us join with him in
these glad, happy, thankful words, "We know that we have passed from death unto life." We know,
we are persuaded, we are sure, that we are on the right side of the line. We know that we have
left the company of the servants of sin, and are now the servants of the Lord Jesus Christ.

'Dear friends, I would now ask each of you very earnestly, Can you say that? Can you take your
stand by the apostle John, and say, "I know that I have passed from death unto life?"

'I think I hear some one answer in his heart, "Well, that's a great deal for any man to say,
and I don't see that any man can know in this life if he is saved or not; when he gets to heaven
he'll know he is all right, but not till then."

'Now look again at my text. It does not say, "We shall know"; it does not say, "We hope soon
to know"; but it speaks in the present. It runs thus: "We know that we have passed from death
unto life." So you see it is possible, nay, it is right, that you and I should, one by one,
take up the words and say, "I know."

'Do I hear some one saying in his heart, "I do wish I could say that? I should be a happier
man if I could. When I go out in my boat, and the storm rages, and I don't know whether I shall
ever see land again, it would be a good thing if I could look up through the wind and tempest,
and could say gladly, I know that I have passed from death unto life."'

I thought I heard a groan when he said this, and I looked round, and saw one of Duncan's mates
burying his face in his hands.

'Do I hear one of you mothers say, "When I lie awake at night, and the baby will not let me
sleep, and I get out and look from my window at the stars shining down upon me, I would give
a great deal to say, as I think of the heaven above those stars, 'I know that I have passed
from death unto life'"?

'And you, my friend, when the day comes, as come it will, when you lie on your bed, and you
see by the doctor's face that you will never get out of it again; when you say to yourself,
as the neighbours sit round, "This is my dying bed, and they are watching to see me die," oh,
what would you not give at that solemn time to be able to say, "I know that I have passed from
death unto life"?

