But now supposing the broad conclusion above drawn to be granted--supposing all to agree that
from the beginning, along with inheritance of useful variations fortuitously arising, there
has been inheritance of effects produced by use and disuse; do there remain no classes of organic
phenomena unaccounted for? To this question I think it must be replied that there do remain
classes of organic phenomena unaccounted for. It may, I believe, be shown that certain cardinal
traits of animals and plants at large are still unexplained; and that a further factor must
be recognized. To show this, however, will require another paper.

II.

Ask a plumber who is repairing your pump, how the water is raised in it, and he replies--"By
suction." Recalling the ability which he has to suck up water into his mouth through a tube,
he is certain that he understands the pump's action. To inquire what he means by suction, seems
to him absurd. He says you know as well as he does, what he means; and he cannot see that there
is any need for asking how it happens that the water rises in the tube when he strains his
mouth in a particular way. To the question why the pump, acting by suction, will not make the
water rise above 32 feet, and practically not so much, he can give no answer; but this does
not shake his confidence in his explanation.

On the other hand an inquirer who insists on knowing what suction is, may obtain from the physicist
answers which give him clear ideas, not only about it but about many other things. He learns
that on ourselves and all things around, there is an atmospheric pressure amounting to about
15 pounds on the square inch: 15 pounds being the average weight of a column of air having
a square inch for its base and extending upwards from the sea-level to the limit of the Earth's
atmosphere. He is made to observe that when he puts one end of a tube into water and the other
end into his mouth, and then draws back his tongue, so leaving a vacant space, two things happen.
One is that the pressure of air outside his cheeks, no longer balanced by an equal pressure
of air inside, thrusts his cheeks inwards; and the other is that the pressure of air on the
surface of the water, no longer balanced by an equal pressure of air within the tube and his
mouth (into which part of the air from the tube has gone) the water is forced up the tube in
consequence of the unequal pressure. Once understanding thus the nature of the so-called suction,
he sees how it happens that when the plunger of the pump is raised and relieves from atmospheric
pressure the water below it, the atmospheric pressure on the water in the well, not being balanced
by that on the water in the tube, forces the water higher up the tube, so that it follows the
plunger. And now he sees why the water cannot be raised beyond the theoretic limit of 32 feet:
a limit made much lower in practice by imperfections in the apparatus. For if, simplifying
the conception, he supposes the tube of the pump to be a square inch in section, then the atmospheric
pressure of 15 pounds per square inch on the water in the well, can raise the water in the
tube to such height only that the entire column of it weighs 15 pounds. Having been thus enlightened
about the pump's action, the action of a barometer becomes intelligible. He perceives how,
under the conditions established, the weight of the column of mercury balances that of an atmospheric
column of equal diameter; and how, as the weight of the atmospheric column varies, there is
a corresponding variation in the weight of the mercurial column,--shown by change of height.
Moreover, having previously supposed that he understood the ascent of a balloon when he ascribed
it to relative lightness, he now sees that he did not truly understand it. For he did not recognize
it as a result of that upward pressure caused by the difference between the weight of the mass
formed by the gas in the balloon plus the cylindrical column of air extending above it to the
limit of the atmosphere, and the weight of a similar cylindrical column of air extending down
to the under surface of the balloon: this difference of weight causing an equivalent upward
pressure on the under surface.

Why do I introduce these familiar truths so entirely irrelevant to my subject? I do it to show,
in the first place, the contrast between a vague conception of a cause and a distinct conception
of it; or rather, the contrast between that conception of a cause which results when it is
simply classed with some other or others which familiarity makes us think we understand, and
that conception of a cause which results when it is represented in terms of definite physical
forces admitting of measurement. And I do it to show, in the second place, that when we insist
on resolving a verbally-intelligible cause into its actual factors, we get not only a clear
solution of the problem before us, but we find that the way is opened to solutions of sundry
other problems. While we rest satisfied with unanalyzed causes, we may be sure both that we
do not rightly comprehend the production of the particular effects ascribed to them, and that
we overlook other effects which would be revealed to us by contemplation of the causes as analyzed.
Especially must this be so where the causation is complex. Hence we may infer that the phenomena
presented by the development of species, are not likely to be truly conceived unless we keep
in view the concrete agencies at work. Let us look closely at the facts to be dealt with.

       *       *       *       *       *

The growth of a thing is effected by the joint operation of certain forces on certain materials;
and when it dwindles, there is either a lack of some materials, or the forces co-operate in
a way different from that which produces growth. If a structure has varied, the implication
is that the processes which built it up were made unlike the parallel processes in other cases,
by the greater or less amount of some one or more of the matters or actions concerned. Where
there is unusual fertility, the play of vital activities is thereby shown to have deviated
from the ordinary play of vital activities; and conversely, if there is infertility. If the
germs, or ova, or seed, or offspring partially developed, survive more or survive less, it
is either because their molar or molecular structures are unlike the average ones, or because
they are affected in unlike ways by surrounding agencies. When life is prolonged, the fact
implies that the combination of actions, visible and invisible, constituting life, retains
its equilibrium longer than usual in presence of environing forces which tend to destroy its
equilibrium. That is to say, growth, variation, survival, death, if they are to be reduced
to the forms in which physical science can recognize them, must be expressed as effects of
agencies definitely conceived--mechanical forces, light, heat, chemical affinity, &c.

This general conclusion brings with it the thought that the phrases employed in discussing
organic evolution, though convenient and indeed needful, are liable to mislead us by veiling
the actual agencies. That which really goes on in every organism is the working together of
component parts in ways conducing to the continuance of their combined actions, in presence
of things and actions outside; some of which tend to subserve, and others to destroy, the combination.
The matters and forces in these two groups, are the sole causes properly so called. The words
"natural selection," do not express a cause in the physical sense. They express a mode of co-operation
among causes--or rather, to speak strictly, they express an effect of this mode of co-operation.
The idea they convey seems perfectly intelligible. Natural selection having been compared with
artificial selection, and the analogy pointed out, there apparently remains no indefiniteness:
the inconvenience being, however, that the definiteness is of a wrong kind. The tacitly implied
Nature which selects, is not an embodied agency analogous to the man who selects artificially;
and the selection is not the picking out of an individual fixed on, but the overthrowing of
many individuals by agencies which one successfully resists, and hence continues to live and
multiply. Mr. Darwin was conscious of these misleading implications. In the introduction to
his Animals and Plants under Domestication (p. 6) he says:--

     "For brevity sake I sometimes speak of natural selection as an
     intelligent power; ... I have, also, often personified the word
     Nature; for I have found it difficult to avoid this ambiguity; but
     I mean by nature only the aggregate action and product of many
     natural laws,--and by laws only the ascertained sequence of
     events."

But while he thus clearly saw, and distinctly asserted, that the factors of organic evolution
are the concrete actions, inner and outer, to which every organism is subject, Mr. Darwin,
by habitually using the convenient figure of speech, was, I think, prevented from recognizing
so fully as he would otherwise have done, certain fundamental consequences of these actions.

Though it does not personalize the cause, and does not assimilate its mode of working to a
human mode of working, kindred objections may be urged against the expression to which I was
led when seeking to present the phenomena in literal terms rather than metaphorical terms--the
survival of the fittest;[42] for in a vague way the first word, and in a clear way the second
word, calls up an anthropocentric idea. The thought of survival inevitably suggests the human
view of certain sets of phenomena, rather than that character which they have simply as groups
of changes. If, asking what we really know of a plant, we exclude all the ideas associated
with the words life and death, we find that the sole facts known to us are that there go on
in the plant certain inter-dependent processes, in presence of certain aiding and hindering
influences outside of it; and that in some cases a difference of structure or a favourable
set of circumstances, allows these inter-dependent processes to go on for longer periods than
in other cases. Again, in the working together of those many actions, internal and external,
which determine the lives or deaths of organisms, we see nothing to which the words fitness
and unfitness are applicable in the physical sense. If a key fits a lock, or a glove a hand,
the relation of the things to one another is presentable to the perceptions. No approach to
fitness of this kind is made by an organism which continues to live under certain conditions.
Neither the organic structures themselves, nor their individual movements, nor those combined
movements of certain among them which constitute conduct, are related in any analogous way
to the things and actions in the environment. Evidently the word fittest, as thus used, is
a figure of speech; suggesting the fact that amid surrounding actions, an organism characterized
by the word has either a greater ability than others of its kind to maintain the equilibrium
of its vital activities, or else has so much greater a power of multiplication that though
not longer lived than they, it continues to live in posterity more persistently. And indeed,
as we here see, the word fittest has to cover cases in which there may be less ability than
usual to survive individually, but in which the defect is more than made good by higher degrees
of fertility.

I have elaborated this criticism with the intention of emphasizing the need for studying the
changes which have gone on, and are ever going on, in organic bodies, from an exclusively physical
point of view. On contemplating the facts from this point of view, we become aware that, besides
those special effects of the co-operating forces which eventuate in the longer survival of
one individual than of others, and in the consequent increase through generations, of some
trait which furthered its survival, many other effects are being wrought on each and all of
the individuals. Bodies of every class and quality, inorganic as well as organic, are from
instant to instant subject to the influences in their environments; are from instant to instant
being changed by these in ways that are mostly inconspicuous; and are in course of time changed
by them in conspicuous ways. Living things in common with dead things, are, I say, being thus
perpetually acted upon and modified; and the changes hence resulting, constitute an all-important
part of those undergone in the course of organic evolution. I do not mean to imply that changes
of this class pass entirely unrecognized; for, as we shall see, Mr. Darwin takes cognizance
of certain secondary and special ones. But the effects which are not taken into account, are
those primary and universal effects which give certain fundamental characters to all organisms.
Contemplation of an analogy will best prepare the way for appreciation of them, and of the
relation they bear to those which at present monopolize attention.

An observant rambler along shores, will, here and there, note places where the sea has deposited
things more or less similar, and separated them from dissimilar things--will see shingle parted
from sand; larger stones sorted from smaller stones; and will occasionally discover deposits
of shells more or less worn by being rolled about. Sometimes the pebbles or boulders composing
the shingle at one end of a bay, he will find much larger than those at the other: intermediate
sizes, having small average differences, occupying the space between the extremes. An example
occurs, if I remember rightly, some mile or two to the west of Tenby; but the most remarkable
and well-known example is that afforded by the Chesil bank. Here, along a shore some sixteen
miles long, there is a gradual increase in the sizes of the stones; which, being at one end
but mere pebbles, are at the other end immense boulders. In this case, then, the breakers and
the undertow have effected a selection--have at each place left behind those stones which were
too large to be readily moved, while taking away others small enough to be moved easily. But
now, if we contemplate exclusively this selective action of the sea, we overlook certain important
effects which the sea simultaneously works. While the stones have been differently acted upon
in so far that some have been left here and some carried there; they have been similarly acted
upon in two allied, but distinguishable, ways. By perpetually rolling them about and knocking
them one against another, the waves have so broken off their most prominent parts as to produce
in all of them more or less rounded forms; and then, further, the mutual friction of the stones
simultaneously caused, has smoothed their surfaces. That is to say in general terms, the actions
of environing agencies, so far as they have operated indiscriminately, have produced in the
stones a certain unity of character; at the same time that they have, by their differential
effects, separated them: the larger ones having withstood certain violent actions which the
smaller ones could not withstand.

Similarly with other assemblages of objects which are alike in their primary traits but unlike
in their secondary traits. When simultaneously exposed to the same set of actions, some of
these actions, rising to a certain intensity, may be expected to work on particular members
of the assemblage changes which they cannot work in those which are markedly unlike; while
others of the actions will work in all of them similar changes, because of the uniform relations
between these actions and certain attributes common to all members of the assemblage. Hence
it is inferable that on living organisms, which form an assemblage of this kind, and are unceasingly
exposed in common to the agencies composing their inorganic environments, there must be wrought
two such sets of effects. There will result a universal likeness among them consequent on the
likeness of their respective relations to the matters and forces around; and there will result,
in some cases, the differences due to the differential effects of these matters and forces,
and in other cases, the changes which, being life-sustaining or life-destroying, eventuate
in certain natural selections.

I have, above, made a passing reference to the fact that Mr. Darwin did not fail to take account
of some among these effects directly produced on organisms by surrounding inorganic agencies.
Here are extracts from the sixth edition of the Origin of Species showing this.

     "It is very difficult to decide how far changed conditions, such as
     of climate, food, &c., have acted in a definite manner. There is
     reason to believe that in the course of time the effects have been
     greater than can be proved by clear evidence.... Mr. Gould believes
     that birds of the same species are more brightly coloured under a
     clear atmosphere, than when living near the coast or on islands;
     and Wollaston is convinced that residence near the sea affects the
     colours of insects. Moquin-Tandon gives a list of plants which,
     when growing near the sea-shore, have their leaves in some degree
     fleshy, though not elsewhere fleshy" (pp. 106-7). "Some observers
     are convinced that a damp climate affects the growth of the hair,
     and that with the hair the horns are correlated" (p. 159).

In his subsequent work, Animals and Plants under Domestication, Mr. Darwin still more clearly
recognizes these causes of change in organization. A chapter is devoted to the subject. After
premising that "the direct action of the conditions of life, whether leading to definite or
indefinite results, is a totally distinct consideration from the effects of natural selection;"
he goes on to say that changed conditions of life "have acted so definitely and powerfully
on the organisation of our domesticated productions, that they have sufficed to form new sub-varieties
or races, without the aid of selection by man or of natural selection." Of his examples here
are two.

     "I have given in detail in the ninth chapter the most remarkable
     case known to me, namely, that in Germany several varieties of
     maize brought from the hotter parts of America were transformed in
     the course of only two or three generations." (Vol. ii, p. 277.)
     [And in this ninth chapter concerning these and other such
     instances he says "some of the foregoing differences would
     certainly be considered of specific value with plants in a state of
     nature." (Vol. i, p. 321.)] "Mr. Meehan, in a remarkable paper,
     compares twenty-nine kinds of American trees, belonging to various
     orders, with their nearest European allies, all grown in close
     proximity in the same garden and under as nearly as possible the
     same conditions." And then enumerating six traits in which the
     American forms all of them differ in like ways from their allied
     European forms, Mr. Darwin thinks there is no choice but to
     conclude that these "have been definitely caused by the
     long-continued action of the different climate of the two
     continents on the trees." (Vol. ii, pp. 281-2.)

But the fact we have to note is that while Mr. Darwin thus took account of special effects
due to special amounts and combinations of agencies in the environment, he did not take account
of the far more important effects due to the general and constant operation of these agencies.[43]
If a difference between the quantities of a force which acts on two organisms, otherwise alike
and otherwise similarly conditioned, produces some difference between them; then, by implication,
this force produces in both of them effects which they show in common. The inequality between
two things cannot have a value unless the things themselves have values. Similarly if, in two
cases, some unlikeness of proportion among the surrounding inorganic agencies to which two
plants or two animals are exposed, is followed by some unlikeness in the changes wrought on
them; then it follows that these several agencies taken separately, work changes in both of
them. Hence we must infer that organisms have certain structural characters in common, which
are consequent on the action of the medium in which they exist: using the word medium in a
comprehensive sense, as including all physical forces falling upon them as well as matters
bathing them. And we may conclude that from the primary characters thus produced there must
result secondary characters.

Before going on to observe those general traits of organisms due to the general action of the
inorganic environment upon them, I feel tempted to enlarge on the effects produced by each
of the several matters and forces constituting the environment. I should like to do this not
only to give a clear preliminary conception of the ways in which all organisms are affected
by these universally-present agents, but also to show that, in the first place, these agents
modify inorganic bodies as well as organic bodies, and that, in the second place, the organic
are far more modifiable by them than the inorganic. But to avoid undue suspension of the argument,
I content myself with saying that when the respective effects of gravitation, heat, light,
&c., are studied, as well as the respective effects, physical and chemical, of the matters
forming the media, water and air, it will be found that while more or less operative on all
bodies, each modifies organic bodies to an extent immensely greater than the extent to which
it modifies inorganic bodies.

       *       *       *       *       *

Here, not discriminating among the special effects which these various forces and matters in
the environment produce on both classes of bodies, let us consider their combined effects,
and ask--What is the most general trait of such effects?

Obviously the most general trait is the greater amount of change wrought on the outer surface
than on the inner mass. In so far as the matters of which the medium is composed come into
play, the unavoidable implication is that they act more on the parts directly exposed to them
than on the parts sheltered from them. And in so far as the forces pervading the medium come
into play, it is manifest that, excluding gravity, which affects outer and inner parts indiscriminately,
the outer parts have to bear larger shares of their actions. If it is a question of heat, then
the exterior must lose it or gain it faster than the interior; and in a medium which is now
warmer and now colder, the two must habitually differ in temperature to some extent--at least
where the size is considerable. If it is a question of light, then in all but absolutely transparent
masses, the outer parts must undergo more of any change producible by it than the inner parts--supposing
other things equal; by which I mean, supposing the case is not complicated by any such convexities
of the outer surface as produce internal concentrations of rays. Hence then, speaking generally,
the necessity is that the primary and almost universal effect of the converse between the body
and its medium, is to differentiate its outside from its inside. I say almost universal, because
where the body is both mechanically and chemically stable, like, for instance, a quartz crystal,
the medium may fail to work either inner or outer change.

Of illustrations among inorganic bodies, a convenient one is supplied by an old cannon-ball
that has been long lying exposed. A coating of rust, formed of flakes within flakes, incloses
it; and this thickens year by year, until, perhaps, it reaches a stage at which its exterior
loses as much by rain and wind as its interior gains by further oxidation of the iron. Most
mineral masses--pebbles, boulders, rocks--if they show any effect of the environment at all,
show it only by that disintegration of surface which follows the freezing of absorbed water:
an effect which, though mechanical rather than chemical, equally illustrates the general truth.
Occasionally a "rocking-stone" is thus produced. There are formed successive layers relatively
friable in texture, each of which, thickest at the most exposed parts, and being presently
lost by weathering, leaves the contained mass in a shape more rounded than before; until, resting
on its convex under-surface, it is easily moved. But of all instances perhaps the most remarkable
is one to be seen on the west bank of the Nile at Philæ, where a ridge of granite 100 feet
high, has had its outer parts reduced in course of time to a collection of boulder-shaped masses,
varying from say a yard in diameter to six or eight feet, each one of which shows in progress
an exfoliation of successively-formed shells of decomposed granite: most of the masses having
portions of such shells partially detached.

If, now, inorganic masses, relatively so stable in composition, thus have their outer parts
differentiated from their inner parts, what must we say of organic masses, characterized by
such extreme chemical instability?--instability so great that their essential material is named
protein, to indicate the readiness with which it passes from one isomeric form to another.
Clearly the necessary inference is that this effect of the medium must be wrought inevitably
and promptly, wherever the relation of outer and inner has become settled: a qualification
for which the need will be seen hereafter.

       *       *       *       *       *

Beginning with the earliest and most minute kinds of living things, we necessarily encounter
difficulties in getting direct evidence; since, of the countless species now existing, all
have been subject during millions upon millions of years to the evolutionary process, and have
had their primary traits complicated and obscured by those endless secondary traits which the
natural selection of favourable variations has produced. Among protophytes it needs but to
think of the multitudinous varieties of diatoms and desmids, with their elaborately-constructed
coverings; or of the definite methods of growth and multiplication among such simple Algæ as
the Conjugatæ; to see that most of their distinctive characters are due to inherited constitutions,
which have been slowly moulded by survival of the fittest to this or that mode of life. To
disentangle such parts of their developmental changes as are due to the action of the medium,
is therefore hardly possible. We can hope only to get a general conception of it by contemplating
the totality of the facts.

The first cardinal fact is that all protophytes are cellular--all show us this contrast between
outside and inside. Supposing the multitudinous specialities of the envelope in different orders
and genera of protophytes to be set against one another, and mutually cancelled, there remains
as a trait common to them--an envelope unlike that which it envelopes. The second cardinal
fact is that this simple trait is the earliest trait displayed in germs, or spores, or other
parts from which new individuals are to arise; and that, consequently, this trait must be regarded
as having been primordial. For it is an established truth of organic evolution that embryos
show us, in general ways, the forms of remote ancestors; and that the first changes undergone,
indicate, more or less clearly, the first changes which took place in the series of forms through
which the existing form has been reached. Describing, in successive groups of plants, the early
transformations of these primitive units, Sachs[44] says of the lowest Algæ that "the conjugated
protoplasmic body clothes itself with a cell-wall" (p. 10); that in "the spores of Mosses and
Vascular Cryptogams" and in "the pollen of Phanerogams" ... "the protoplasmic body of the mother-cell
breaks up into four lumps, which quickly round themselves off and contract, and become enveloped
by a cell-membrane only after complete separation" (p. 13); that in the Equisetaceæ "the young
spores, when first separated, are still naked, but they soon become surrounded by a cell-membrane"
(p. 14); and that in higher plants, as in the pollen of many Dicotyledons, "the contracting
daughter-cells secrete cellulose even during their separation" (p. 14). Here, then, in whatever
way we interpret it, the fact is that there quickly arises an outer layer different from the
contained matter. But the most significant evidence is furnished by "the masses of protoplasm
that escape into water from the injured sacs of Vaucheria, which often instantly become rounded
into globular bodies," and of which the "hyaline protoplasm envelopes the whole as a skin"
(p. 41) which "is denser than the inner and more watery substance" (p. 42). As in this case
the protoplasm is but a fragment, and as it is removed from the influence of the parent-cell,
this differentiating process can scarcely be regarded as anything more than the effect of physico-chemical
actions: a conclusion which is supported by the statement of Sachs that "not only every vacuole
in a solid protoplasmic body, but also every thread of protoplasm which penetrates the sap-cavity,
and finally the inner side of the protoplasm-sac which encloses the sap-cavity, is also bounded
by a skin" (p. 42). If then "every portion of a protoplasmic body immediately surrounds itself,
when it becomes isolated, with such a skin," which is shown in all cases to arise at the surface
of contact with sap or water, this primary differentiation of outer from inner must be ascribed
to the direct action of the medium. Whether the coating thus initiated is secreted by the protoplasm,
or whether, as seems more likely, it results from transformation of it, matters not to the
argument. Either way the action of the medium causes its formation; and either way the many
varied and complex differentiations which developed cell-walls display, must be considered
as originating from those variations of this physically-generated covering which natural selection
has taken advantage of.

The contained protoplasm of a vegetal cell, which has self-mobility and when liberated sometimes
performs amoeba-like motions for a time, may be regarded as an imprisoned amoeba; and when
we pass from it to a free amoeba, which is one of the simplest types of first animals, or Protozoa,
we naturally meet with kindred phenomena. The general trait which here concerns us, is that
while its plastic or semi-fluid sarcode goes on protruding, in irregular ways, now this and
now that part of its periphery, and again withdrawing into its interior first one and then
another of these temporary processes, perhaps with some small portion of food attached, there
is but an indistinct differentiation of outer from inner (a fact shown by the frequent coalescence
of the pseudopodia in Rhizopods); but that when it eventually becomes quiescent, the surface
becomes differentiated from the contents: the passing into an encysted state, doubtless in
large measure due to inherited proclivity, being furthered, and having probably been once initiated,
by the action of the medium. The connexion between constancy of relative position among the
parts of the sarcode, and the rise of a contrast between superficial and central parts, is
perhaps best shown in the minutest and simplest Infusoria, the Monadinæ. The genus Monas is
described by Kent as "plastic and unstable in form, possessing no distinct cuticular investment;
... the food-substances incepted at all parts of the periphery";[45] and the genus Scytomonas
he says "differs from Monas only in its persistent shape and accompanying greater rigidity
of the peripheral or ectoplasmic layer."[46] Describing generally such low forms, some of which
are said to have neither nucleus nor vacuole, he remarks that in types somewhat higher "the
outer or peripheral border of the protoplasmic mass, while not assuming the character of a
distinct cell-wall or so-called cuticle, presents, as compared with the inner substance of
that mass, a slightly more solid type of composition."[47] And it is added that these forms
having so slightly differentiated an exterior, "while usually exhibiting a more or less characteristic
normal outline, can revert at will to a pseud-amoeboid and repent state."[48] Here, then, we
have several indications of the truth that the permanent externality of a certain part of the
substance, is followed by transformation of it into a coating unlike the substance it contains.
Indefinite and structureless in the simplest of these forms, as instance again the Gregarina,[49]
the limiting membrane becomes, in higher Infusoria, definite and often complex: showing that
the selection of favourable variations has had largely to do with its formation. In such types
as the Foraminifera, which, almost structureless internally though they are, secrete calcareous
shells, it is clear that the nature of this outer layer is determined by inherited constitution.
But recognition of this consists with the belief that the action of the medium initiated the
outer layer, specialized though it now is; and that even still, contact with the medium excites
secretion of it.

A remarkable analogy remains to be named. When we study the action of the medium in an inorganic
mass, we are led to see that between the outer changed layer and the inner unchanged mass,
comes a surface where active change is going on. Here we have to note that, alike in the plant-cell
and in the animal-cell, there is a similar relation of parts. Immediately inside the envelope
comes the primordial utricle in the one case, and in the other case the layer of active sarcode.
In either case the living protoplasm, placed in the position of a lining to the cuticle of
the cell, is shielded from the direct action of the medium, and yet is not beyond the reach
of its influences.

       *       *       *       *       *

Limited, as thus far drawn, to a certain common trait of those minute organisms which are mostly
below the reach of unaided vision, the foregoing conclusion appears trivial enough. But it
ceases to appear trivial on passing into a wider field, and observing the implications, direct
and indirect, as they concern plants and animals of sensible sizes.

Popular expositions of science have so far familiarized many readers with a certain fundamental
trait of living things around, that they have ceased to perceive how marvellous a trait it
is, and, until interpreted by the Theory of Evolution, how utterly mysterious. In past times,
the conception of an ordinary plant or animal which prevailed, not throughout the world at
large only but among the most instructed, was that it is a single continuous entity. One of
these livings things was unhesitatingly regarded as being in all respects a unit. Parts it
might have, various in their sizes, forms, and compositions; but these were components of a
whole which had been from the beginning in its original nature a whole. Even to naturalists
fifty years ago, the assertion that a cabbage or a cow, though in one sense a whole, is in
another sense a vast society of minute individuals, severally living in greater or less degrees,
and some of them maintaining their independent lives unrestrained, would have seemed an absurdity.
But this truth which, like so many of the truths established by science, is contrary to that
common sense in which most people have so much confidence, has been gradually growing clear
since the days when Leeuwenhoeck and his contemporaries began to examine through lenses the
minute structures of common plants and animals. Each improvement in the microscope, while it
has widened our knowledge of those minute forms of life described above, has revealed further
evidence of the fact that all the larger forms of life consist of units severally allied in
their fundamental traits to these minute forms of life. Though, as formulated by Schwann and
Schleiden, the cell-doctrine has undergone qualifications of statement; yet the qualifications
have not been such as to militate against the general proposition that organisms visible to
the naked eye, are severally compounded of invisible organisms--using that word in its most
comprehensive sense. And then, when the development of any animal is traced, it is found that
having been primarily a nucleated cell, and having afterwards become by spontaneous fission
a cluster of nucleated cells, it goes on through successive stages to form out of such cells,
ever multiplying and modifying in various ways, the several tissues and organs composing the adult.

On the hypothesis of evolution this universal trait has to be accepted not as a fact that is
strange but unmeaning. It has to be accepted as evidence that all the visible forms of life
have arisen by union of the invisible forms; which, instead of flying apart when they divided,
remained together. Various intermediate stages are known. Among plants, those of the Volvox
type show us the component protophytes so feebly combined that they severally carry on their
lives with no appreciable subordination to the life of the group. And among animals, a parallel
relation between the lives of the units and the life of the group is shown us in Uroglena and
Syncrypta. From these first stages upwards, may be traced through successively higher types,
an increasing subordination of the units to the aggregate; though still a subordination leaving
to them conspicuous amounts of individual activity. Joining which facts with the phenomena
presented by the cell-multiplication and aggregation of every unfolding germ, naturalists are
now accepting the conclusion that by this process of composition from Protozoa, were formed
all classes of the Metazoa[50]--(as animals formed by this compounding are now called); and
that in a similar way from Protophyta, were formed all classes of what I suppose will be called
Metaphyta, though the word does not yet seem to have become current.

And now what is the general meaning of these truths, taken in connexion with the conclusion
reached in the last section. It is that this universal trait of the Metazoa and Metaphyta,
must be ascribed to the primitive action and re-action between the organism and its medium.
The operation of those forces which produced the primary differentiation of outer from inner
in early minute masses of protoplasm, pre-determined this universal cell-structure of all embryos,
plant and animal, and the consequent cell-composition of adult forms arising from them. How
unavoidable is this implication, will be seen on carrying further an illustration already used--that
of the shingle-covered shore, the pebbles on which, while being in some cases selected, have
been in all cases rounded and smoothed. Suppose a bed of such shingle to be, as we often see
it, solidified, along with interfused material, into a conglomerate. What in such case must
be considered as the chief trait of such conglomerate; or rather--what must we regard as the
chief cause of its distinctive characters? Evidently the action of the sea. Without the breakers,
no pebbles; without the pebbles, no conglomerate. Similarly then, in the absence of that action
of the medium by which was effected the differentiation of outer from inner in those microscopic
portions of protoplasm constituting the earliest and simplest animals and plants, there could
not have existed this cardinal trait of composition which all the higher animals and plants
show us.

So that, active as has been the part played by natural selection, alike in modifying and moulding
the original units--largely as survival of the fittest has been instrumental in furthering
and controlling the combination of these units into visible organisms, and eventually into
large ones; yet we must ascribe to the direct effect of the medium on the first forms of life,
that character of which this everywhere-operative factor has taken advantage.

       *       *       *       *       *

Let us turn now to another and more obvious attribute of higher organisms, for which also there
is this same general cause. Let us observe how, on a higher platform, there recurs this differentiation
of outer from inner--how this primary trait in the living units with which life commences,
re-appears as a primary trait in those aggregates of such units which constitute visible organisms.

In its simplest and most unmistakable form, we see this in the early changes of an unfolding
ovum of primitive type. The original fertilized single cell, having by spontaneous fission
multiplied into a cluster of such cells, there begins to show itself a contrast between periphery
and centre; and presently there is formed a sphere consisting of a superficial layer unlike
its contents. The first change, then, is the rise of a difference between that outer part which
holds direct converse with the surrounding medium, and that inclosed part which does not. This
primary differentiation in these compound embryos of higher animals, parallels the primary
differentiation undergone by the simplest living things.

Leaving, for the present, succeeding changes of the compound embryo, the significance of which
we shall have to consider by-and-by, let us pass now to the adult forms of visible plants and
animals. In them we find cardinal traits which, after what we have seen above, will further
impress us with the importance of the effects wrought on the organism by its medium.

