=Increase in Women Wage-earners.=--In the first place, we must note the tendency toward rapid
increase of the numbers of women listed by the census as in "gainful occupations." Without
noting in this connection the conditions just before and during the Great War, conditions not
at all indicative of normal increase in the numbers of working-women, we trace in the period
from 1880 to 1910 a rise from 2,647,157 to 8,075,772 of the number of women in receipt of salary
or wages for work outside their own homes. The estimate of 1920, now given, of nearly 41,609,192
"persons of both sexes and of ten years old and over engaged in gainful occupations" shows
us 8,549,399 "females." Of these, over a million are engaged in "Professional service" (a larger
proportion than of men so listed and, of course, indicating the great majority of women in
the teaching profession). More than two millions are listed in "Domestic and Personal service."
That leaves over three millions working in "agriculture, forestry, animal industry, manufacture
and mechanical industries," and nearly a million and a half in "clerical occupations." The
use of ten years of age in such lists is now obsolete as an indication of custom in employment
of youth. Fourteen years of age is the norm in the listing of youthful workers and the age
limits should be revised to suit that rise in the legal age of the child wage-earner as generally
practised now in the United States. With that understanding, the statistics for "Child Labor
Certificates" issued by the large manufacturing cities of our country show an army of young
workers, more than twenty thousand in New York City alone, annually entering the competitive
industrial field with full consent of society. This all means that millions of women and very
young persons who under the earlier forms of industrial life would have been employed (however
steadily or with whatever handicaps or even cruelty) within some family circle, are now under
the full control of mass-direction, mass-standardization, and mass-influence in their daily work.

=Social Pressure on the Individual Worker.=--This pressure is in itself almost a sufficient
reason for the family instability now seen. To divorce all the working-time, and all the work-tendency,
and most of the work-training from home life is to weaken the hold of the family upon the average
worker. Members of a family in which each has definite and firm relation to some different
requirement and control connected with a daily task are likely to acquire an independent relation
to society in general. In such eases it requires a far more vital and enduring affection, a
distinctly superior mutual understanding and sense of justice, and a far larger natural equipment
of tact and power of adjustment than was required in other economic conditions, in order to
make the family life enduring and happy. The economic self-interest of each member of the family
in the domestic circle was obviously that of every other member when the household was a workshop.
Even, the land and all which it implied was a family possession in primitive days. And the
worker's equipment, owned privately, was limited in the early days. We read that "tools, weapons,
slaves and captured women and the products of some special skill were generally private possession,
but products of group-work, such as the capture and killing of buffalo, salmon, and all larger
game among the North American Indians, and the maize which individual women tended but which
belonged to the household or the tribe in common, were all shared as community property." When
to this communal possession of products of group-activity were added control over marriage
portions, however those might be appropriated, and the management of all property thought to
be of group-value, we can see that all of economic weight of influence now so individualized
once went into the family asset.

In the mediæval times, when laborers were gaining slowly a class consciousness outlined by
Guilds and Unions of special groups of workers, the family was still the main centre of work-direction
and of united profit from work, and hence it was evident to the dullest mind and the coldest
heart that members of a family should work and save together. Now the whole trend of industrial
relationship is toward making independent and individualistic connection between the worker
and his job outside of family unity. Even movements for legal protection of the worker against
exploitation by masters in industry often take little account of family relationship or the
varying inherited family ideals. Setting the well-being of one member of the family against
what is supposed to be the well-being of other members of the family, as in the case of some
child-labor laws, may be necessary and socially wise, but it surely does not lead to family
stability.

=Demands of Family Life Upon Industry and Labor Legislation.=--The demands of family life should
at least be stated and have some weight in any further attempts to make the lot of the individual
worker better, and should be considered in any drastic attempts to enforce labor legislation
which sets the parent and the child against each other in the courts, or which hampers a mother
in what she deems of vital necessity in the carrying out of her parental duty.

"The Code for Women in Industry," issued by the division of Women in Industry of the Department
of Labor, in coöperation with the "War Labor Board" and the "War Labor Policies Board," when
the questions concerning standards for employment of women in war plants were acute, as published
in the Survey of January 4, 1919, is in brief summary as follows: No woman employed or permitted
to work more than eight hours a day or forty-eight hours a week. One day of rest a week demanded
for all and no night work for minors or women. The basis of the wage-scale to be form of occupation,
not sex; and no lesser wage for women permitted unless it can be proved that their employment
lessens the output of work. A legal minimum wage for all women, which should include cost of
living of dependents as well as of individuals. All work conditions to be good and safety adequately
secured. Women to be prohibited from working in occupations where exposure to heat or cold
or to poisonous substances, or where bad position or too great muscular strain, endanger health.
Home work prohibited.

=Should Adult Women and Children be Listed Together in Labor Laws?=--There is grave question
whether some of these items listed as essentials in the protection of women in industry, and
certainly useful in the peculiar conditions of munition manufacture into which women rushed
in such vast numbers in answer to the call of war, should form a permanent outline of the relation
of law to women workers. Some of them have, and clearly, a place in any future code in peace
time. The requirement for one day of rest in seven; the demand that quality and power of labor,
not sex, shall set the wage-scale; and the legal requirement for sanitary, safe, and moral
conditions in workshops and factories, all are vital to sound social demand in the interest
of women workers. Are these not also demands for just labor conditions of men? The eight-hour
day is now fixed as a standard for men and women alike, with the forty-eight hour a week definition.
A minimum wage, including cost of living for dependents as well as for individuals involved,
has justice at its base, but requires for its application less a blanket sum indicated by law
than a wages-board or other form of discriminating commission with power to adjust flexibly,
with due consideration of place and of quality of work, the wages to the task. Conditions of
labor should be "good" in all cases, and what is good should be fixed by disinterested persons.
Physical safety and moral protection must be secured at all hazards, and in the case of women
special protection, particularly for those under twenty-one years of age, is needed. Any work
which is peculiarly a menace to health and to the race-life for mothers or potential mothers
may well be forbidden by law. The absolute prohibition of night work and of home work to adult
women may well be left in the background, however, until the industrial situation is clearer
for all women workers. The evils of night work for the "sweated" woman, untrained for any lucrative
labor and who has to catch on to the labor wheels at any point open to her effort at middle
age, must not blind us to the fact that one of the most precious things in the inheritance
of brave and loyal natures is the determination to earn for one's own support and for that
of one's dearest. The tenement labor, which is such an evil in many of our cities and one so
impossible to deal with adequately by ordinary inspectorship provision, is not all there is
to "home work." It may well be that, as has been before indicated, the new uses of electrical
power may return to the home, and in ways to the advantage of the family, some of the processes
now wholly under factory control and provision. The point is that while there cannot be too
much protective legislation for children and youth, the place of adult women in the labor world
must not be too firmly and exclusively held by the side of children lest we add to the difficulties
women still experience in finding and keeping a place in the world of modern industry.

=Women in War Work.=--In England, we are told, there were one million women employed in war
plants during the great struggle with Germany. In every variety of munitions manufacture women
were found in great numbers, often furnishing eighty per cent, or more of the total number
employed. It is a fact that they "made good." It is also a fact that the average of health
among the working women of England rose in many localities where women were employed at these
unwonted tasks. The reason given for this by one keen observer being that the higher wages
earned enabled many thousands of women, before undernourished because of their poverty, to
have "three square meals a day." When we remember that in England there are nearly two million
more women than men, and that the men who served in the army and have returned physically and
mentally able to take back the jobs they left for army service are clamoring for them, and
when we remember that the struggle for a standard of living never goes backward and that women
workers once used to good wages will not willingly take poor ones again, we can see what difficulties
the war has made in our sister country for both men and women in industry.

In our own country the one and a quarter million women engaged in industrial work directly
or indirectly connected with the war service when the first investigation was made in fifteen
states, under the auspices of the National League of Women's Service, were but a section of
the army of women who were enlisted in war work, paid or unpaid and of various kinds. Now we
have an unemployment problem of our own with something of the same complaint of the men of
England that the returned soldier finds a woman in his place, a woman who is still wanted,
perhaps, by the employer and who does not wish to relinquish her job.

When Mrs. Muhlhauser Richards took charge of the Woman's Division of the Department of Labor
in the effort to make a clearing house of women's work in the interest of help to the government
it was not simply a measure for temporary use or of temporary value. The idea still persists
in peace as well as in war, and justly, that the interests of women in industry require a special
division of the Labor Department in order that we shall be able to know what is needed for
their protection in the interest of family life as well as understand what individual women
require in justice when they are wage-earners. A minimum wage is demanded and in several states
made a legal requirement, but to name a definite sum per week puts a stated figure where a
movable and changeable condition inheres in the situation. Experts in labor reform, therefore,
urge the passage of legislative bills providing for "wage commissions to determine living wages
for women and minors," and such have been secured in several states.

The linking of women of all ages with minors may be necessary for protection of individual
women from exploitation, but again, it must be insisted that such a blanket cover for women
workers of all ages may not be for the ultimate good of the adult, competent yet struggling
women, who are trying to compete with men for a place in the world of labor. The fact is that
we often approach the problems of work and wages and general labor conditions from the angle
of the most needy, the most exploited, the least trained, and the poorest in opportunity. This
may be the highway of philanthropy and to be travelled in the interest of social helpfulness,
but it is not all the roads labor reform must use.

=Minimum Wage for Fathers of Families Real Need.=--When we study questions of labor as related
to family well-being we must begin with an ideal of what the normal family requires of its
members, men, women, and older children, and place in the first position of economic requirement
the family demand upon the husband and father. He must, we have said, be in position to be
a "good provider" for his group. That means he must be trained to be a worker, faithful, efficient,
intelligent, who does something which society needs to have done and for which employers can
and will pay adequate wages. That means vocational training, guidance, and opportunity. That
means, also, an economic system not easily convulsed by bad times and ups and downs in the
industrial world. That means, again, ease and cheapness of transportation in order that families
may live in decent homes and yet the chief wage-earner go back and forth to his work without
too great strain of strength or purse. That means some social control of housing facilities,
food supply, public sanitation, and educational facilities which will secure the essential
of human living to all workers and their families. To work harder to secure these vital elements
of family well-being is the task of all. If we were as anxious as citizens to secure opportunity
for the men and women who make up the great army of average workers, self-supporting but at
cost of struggle often too severe, as we are anxious as philanthropists to ease the burden
and protect the weakness of the more backward members of the industrial army, the current of
upward movement of all in gainful occupations would be stronger and more socially helpful.
The family is most of all concerned with the minimum wage of adult men who marry and have children.

=The Attitude of Women Toward Labor Problems.=--The family is concerned next with the attitude
of women who are wives and mothers, or daughters partially supported from the family purse,
toward the whole area of industrial problems. It may be always right, as it is often necessary,
for married women, even when mothers of young children, to earn in the outside labor world.
It is, however, always a social crime for women who try simply to piece out an insufficient
family income to do it in ways to bring down or to keep down wages in the specialty of work
they take part in, especially to bring down or keep down the wages of men in that specialty
of work. It may be best (it usually is) for young daughters to earn wages even if they do kinds
of work which in the labor market will not secure a return adequate for full self-support.
The work may be educational in its quality; much that young girls do in department stores is
of that character; but wages too low for full self-support must be reckoned as part pay for
a work-opportunity mixed of training and service, not one that lists the worker in full competitive
position.

=Necessary Protection for Children and Youth in Labor.=--Where young boys or young girls enter
into the industrial world they should step from either a Trade School, and if so, with the
guidance and care of some representatives of that school to aid them in making physically,
morally, and vocationally helpful alignment, or else should be given half-time employment in
the factory or shop that takes them on as helpers and find in some "Continuation School" a
right use of the rest of the work-day. The right sort of protective aid to boys and girls between
the ages of fourteen, when the law allows some form of wage-earning, and that of sixteen to
eighteen years, when they may safely shift for themselves, should halve the wage-earning hours
(four instead of eight each day or twenty-four instead of forty-eight a week or alternate weeks
at work or study); should double the numbers set to each stated task in shop or factory; should
treble the supervisory control of society, in a union of Health Board, School Board, and Employers'
and Employees' Council; and should quadruple the fitly trained teachers, the school sittings,
the adequately equipped recreation centres and all incitements to higher uses of leisure time.
The early years of every child should be held sacredly apart from the whir of wheels and the
din of machinery; he should then rehearse in some degree, as will be later shown, the handicraft
age of industry and its personalizing influence. His entrance into the world of modern labor
should be not a plunge or a tumble but along a regulated highway of well-outlined endeavor,
with social influences on either side to make his passage into wage-earning safe for himself
and useful to others.

Social protection should be less a club marked, "Thou shalt not," and more an opportunity inscribed,
"Chances to rise, win them!" For the woman, married and a mother, there must be not so many
new ways of enforcing prohibitions of what are deemed for her harmful forms of labor, as more
ingenuity in providing half-time work, better adjustments of earning facilities to domestic
duties, far more coöperative machinery for reducing the cost of living and for securing the
family against economic exploitation in food, clothing, and shelter.

=Women and the Cost of Living.=--There is a field of family conservation which has been until
lately almost wholly neglected by women; a field which must be mastered by them, the field
of combination of all family interests in behalf of each family need. The attitude of the new
voters among women who have organized into a League to enable them to become better and more
efficient citizens is eminently encouraging. When the League of Women Voters takes hold definitely,
consciously, and with intelligent devotion of the problems of cost of living, market supply,
distribution of essentials of life and the whole range of economic interests which lie next
to family well-being, it means that women are taking into the electorate a new and vitally
needed form of social control and social service. That in itself, alone, would justify the
struggle of women to obtain the franchise. More and more men in political life will come to
understand what a League of women, for the most part "home-women" and family-serving-women,
will demand of officials in the area of basic essentials of comfort and security in the home.

