The spring had come round, with May and the London butterflies, at the time at which our story
begins, and during six months Frank Greystock had not been at Fawn Court. Then one day Lady
Eustace came down with her ponies, and her footman, and a new dear friend of hers, Miss Macnulty.
While Miss Macnulty was being honoured by Lady Fawn, Lizzie had retreated to a corner with
her old dear friend Lucy Morris. It was pretty to see how so wealthy and fashionable a woman
as Lady Eustace could show so much friendship to a governess. "Have you seen Frank, lately?"
said Lady Eustace, referring to her cousin the barrister.

"Not for ever so long," said Lucy, with her cheeriest smile.

"He is not going to prove a false knight?" asked Lady Eustace, in her lowest whisper.

"I don't know that Mr. Greystock is much given to knighthood at all," said Lucy,--"unless it
is to being made Sir Francis by his party."

"Nonsense, my dear; as if I didn't know. I suppose Lady Fawn has been interfering--like an
old cat as she is."

"She is not an old cat, Lizzie! and I won't hear her called so. If you think so, you shouldn't
come here. And she hasn't interfered. That is, she has done nothing that she ought not to have
done."

"Then she has interfered," said Lady Eustace, as she got up and walked across the room, with
a sweet smile to the old cat.

CHAPTER IV

Frank Greystock

Frank Greystock the barrister was the only son of the Dean of Bobsborough. Now the dean had
a family of daughters,--not quite so numerous indeed as that of Lady Fawn, for there were only
three of them,--and was by no means a rich man. Unless a dean have a private fortune, or has
chanced to draw the happy lot of Durham in the lottery of deans, he can hardly be wealthy.
At Bobsborough the dean was endowed with a large, rambling, picturesque, uncomfortable house,
and with £1,500 a year. In regard to personal property it may be asserted of all the Greystocks
that they never had any. They were a family of which the males would surely come to be deans
and admirals, and the females would certainly find husbands. And they lived on the good things
of the world, and mixed with wealthy people. But they never had any money. The Eustaces always
had money, and the Bishop of Bobsborough was wealthy. The dean was a man very different from
his brother the admiral, who had never paid anybody anything. The dean did pay; but he was
a little slow in his payments, and money with him was never very plentiful. In these circumstances
it became very expedient that Frank Greystock should earn his bread early in life.

Nevertheless, he had chosen a profession which is not often lucrative at first. He had been
called to the Bar, and had gone,--and was still going,--the circuit in which lies the cathedral
city of Bobsborough. Bobsborough is not much of a town, and was honoured with the judges' visits
only every other circuit. Frank began pretty well, getting some little work in London, and
perhaps nearly enough to pay the cost of his circuit out of the county in which the cathedral
was situated. But he began life after that impecunious fashion for which the Greystocks have
been noted. Tailors, robemakers, and booksellers gave him trust, and did believe that they
would get their money. And any persistent tradesman did get it. He did not actually hoist the
black flag of impecuniosity, and proclaim his intention of preying generally upon the retail
dealers, as his uncle the admiral had done. But he became known as a young man with whom money
was "tight." All this had been going on for three or four years before he had met Lucy Morris
at the deanery. He was then eight-and-twenty, and had been four years called. He was thirty
when old Lady Fawn hinted to him that he had better not pay any more visits at Fawn Court.

But things had much altered with him of late. At the time of that visit to the deanery he had
made a sudden start in his profession. The Corporation of the City of London had brought an
action against the Bank of England with reference to certain alleged encroachments, of which
action, considerable as it was in all its interests, no further notice need be taken here than
is given by the statement that a great deal of money in this cause had found its way among
the lawyers. Some of it penetrated into the pocket of Frank Greystock; but he earned more than
money, better than money, out of that affair. It was attributed to him by the attorneys that
the Bank of England was saved from the necessity of reconstructing all its bullion-cellars,
and he had made his character for industry. In the year after that the Bobsborough people were
rather driven into a corner in search of a clever young Conservative candidate for the borough,
and Frank Greystock was invited to stand. It was not thought that there was much chance of
success, and the dean was against it. But Frank liked the honour and glory of the contest,
and so did Frank's mother. Frank Greystock stood, and at the time in which he was warned away
from Fawn Court had been nearly a year in Parliament. "Of course it does interfere with one's
business," he had said to his father, "but then it brings one business also. A man with a seat
in Parliament who shows that he means work will always get nearly as much work as he can do."
Such was Frank's exposition to his father. It may perhaps not be found to hold water in all
cases. Mrs. Dean was of course delighted with her son's success, and so were the girls. Women
like to feel that the young men belonging to them are doing something in the world, so that
a reflected glory may be theirs. It was pleasant to talk of Frank as member for the city. Brothers
do not always care much for a brother's success, but a sister is generally sympathetic. If
Frank would only marry money, there was nothing he might not achieve. That he would live to
sit on the woolsack was now almost a certainty to the dear old lady. But in order that he might
sit there comfortably it was necessary that he should at least abstain from marrying a poor
wife. For there was fear at the deanery also in regard to Lucy Morris.

"That notion of marrying money as you call it," Frank said to his second sister Margaret, "is
the most disgusting idea in the world."

"It is as easy to love a girl who has something as one who has nothing," said Margaret.

"No,--it is not; because the girls with money are scarce, and those without it are plentiful,--an
argument of which I don't suppose you see the force." Then Margaret for the moment was snubbed
and retired.

"Indeed, Frank, I think Lady Fawn was right," said the mother.

"And I think she was quite wrong. If there be anything in it, it won't be expelled by Lady
Fawn's interference. Do you think I should allow Lady Fawn to tell me not to choose such or
such a woman for my wife?"

"It's the habit of seeing her, my dear. Nobody loves Lucy Morris better than I do. We all like
her. But, dear Frank, would it do for you to make her your wife?"

Frank Greystock was silent for a moment, and then he answered his mother's question. "I am
not quite sure whether it would or would not. But I do think this--that if I were bold enough
to marry now, and to trust all to the future, and could get Lucy to be my wife, I should be
doing a great thing. I doubt, however, whether I have the courage." All of which made the dean's
wife uneasy.

The reader, who has read so far, will perhaps think that Frank Greystock was in love with Lucy
as Lucy was in love with him. But such was not exactly the case. To be in love, as an absolute,
well-marked, acknowledged fact, is the condition of a woman more frequently and more readily
than of a man. Such is not the common theory on the matter, as it is the man's business to
speak, and the woman's business to be reticent. And the woman is presumed to have kept her
heart free from any load of love, till she may accept the burthen with an assurance that it
shall become a joy and a comfort to her. But such presumptions, though they may be very useful
for the regulation of conduct, may not be always true. It comes more within the scope of a
woman's mind, than that of a man's, to think closely and decide sharply on such a matter. With
a man it is often chance that settles the question for him. He resolves to propose to a woman,
or proposes without resolving, because she is close to him. Frank Greystock ridiculed the idea
of Lady Fawn's interference in so high a matter as his love,--or abstinence from love. Nevertheless,
had he been made a welcome guest at Fawn Court, he would undoubtedly have told his love to
Lucy Morris. He was not a welcome guest, but had been banished; and, as a consequence of that
banishment, he had formed no resolution in regard to Lucy, and did not absolutely know whether
she was necessary to him or not. But Lucy Morris knew all about it.

Moreover, it frequently happens with men that they fail to analyse these things, and do not
make out for themselves any clear definition of what their feelings are or what they mean.
We hear that a man has behaved badly to a girl, when the behaviour of which he has been guilty
has resulted simply from want of thought. He has found a certain companionship to be agreeable
to him, and he has accepted the pleasure without inquiry. Some vague idea has floated across
his brain that the world is wrong in supposing that such friendship cannot exist without marriage,
or question of marriage. It is simply friendship. And yet were his friend to tell him that
she intended to give herself in marriage elsewhere, he would suffer all the pangs of jealousy,
and would imagine himself to be horribly ill-treated! To have such a friend,--a friend whom
he cannot or will not make his wife,--is no injury to him. To him it is simply a delight, an
excitement in life, a thing to be known to himself only and not talked of to others, a source
of pride and inward exultation. It is a joy to think of when he wakes, and a consolation in
his little troubles. It dispels the weariness of life, and makes a green spot of holiday within
his daily work. It is, indeed, death to her;--but he does not know it. Frank Greystock did
think that he could not marry Lucy Morris without making an imprudent plunge into deep water,
and yet he felt that Lady Fawn was an ill-natured old woman for hinting to him that he had
better not, for the present, continue his visits to Fawn Court. "Of course you understand me,
Mr. Greystock," she had said, meaning to be civil. "When Miss Morris has left us,--should she
ever leave us,--I should be most happy to see you." "What on earth would take me to Fawn Court,
if Lucy were not there!" he said to himself,--not choosing to appreciate Lady Fawn's civility.

Frank Greystock was at this time nearly thirty years old. He was a good-looking, but not strikingly
handsome man; thin, of moderate height, with sharp grey eyes, a face clean shorn with the exception
of a small whisker, with wiry, strong dark hair, which was already beginning to show a tinge
of grey;--the very opposite in appearance to his late friend Sir Florian Eustace. He was quick,
ready-witted, self-reliant, and not over scrupulous in the outward things of the world. He
was desirous of doing his duty to others, but he was specially desirous that others should
do their duty to him. He intended to get on in the world, and believed that happiness was to
be achieved by success. He was certainly made for the profession which he had adopted. His
father, looking to certain morsels of Church patronage which occasionally came in his way,
and to the fact that he and the bishop were on most friendly terms, had wished his son to take
orders. But Frank had known himself and his own qualities too well to follow his father's advice.
He had chosen to be a barrister, and now, at thirty, he was in Parliament.

He had been asked to stand for Bobsborough in the Conservative interest, and as a Conservative
he had been returned. Those who invited him knew probably but little of his own political beliefs
or feelings,--did not, probably, know whether he had any. His father was a fine old Tory of
the ancient school, who thought that things were going from bad to worse, but was able to live
happily in spite of his anticipations. The dean was one of those old-world politicians,--we
meet them every day, and they are generally pleasant people,--who enjoy the politics of the
side to which they belong without any special belief in them. If pressed hard they will almost
own that their so-called convictions are prejudices. But not for worlds would they be rid of
them. When two or three of them meet together, they are as freemasons, who are bound by a pleasant
bond which separates them from the outer world. They feel among themselves that everything
that is being done is bad,--even though that everything is done by their own party. It was
bad to interfere with Charles, bad to endure Cromwell, bad to banish James, bad to put up with
William. The House of Hanover was bad. All interference with prerogative has been bad. The
Reform bill was very bad. Encroachment on the estates of the bishops was bad. Emancipation
of Roman Catholics was the worst of all. Abolition of corn-laws, church-rates, and oaths and
tests were all bad. The meddling with the Universities has been grievous. The treatment of
the Irish Church has been Satanic. The overhauling of schools is most injurious to English
education. Education bills and Irish land bills were all bad. Every step taken has been bad.
And yet to them old England is of all countries in the world the best to live in, and is not
at all the less comfortable because of the changes that have been made. These people are ready
to grumble at every boon conferred on them, and yet to enjoy every boon. They know, too, their
privileges, and, after a fashion, understand their position. It is picturesque, and it pleases
them. To have been always in the right and yet always on the losing side; always being ruined,
always under persecution from a wild spirit of republican-demagogism,--and yet never to lose
anything, not even position or public esteem, is pleasant enough. A huge, living, daily increasing
grievance that does one no palpable harm, is the happiest possession that a man can have. There
is a large body of such men in England, and, personally, they are the very salt of the nation.
He who said that all Conservatives are stupid did not know them. Stupid Conservatives there
may be,--and there certainly are very stupid Radicals. The well-educated, widely-read Conservative,
who is well assured that all good things are gradually being brought to an end by the voice
of the people, is generally the pleasantest man to be met. But he is a Buddhist, possessing
a religious creed which is altogether dark and mysterious to the outer world. Those who watch
the ways of the advanced Buddhist hardly know whether the man does believe himself in his hidden
god, but men perceive that he is respectable, self-satisfied, and a man of note. It is of course
from the society of such that Conservative candidates are to be sought; but, alas, it is hard
to indoctrinate young minds with the old belief, since new theories of life have become so rife!

Nevertheless Frank Greystock, when he was invited to stand for Bobsborough in the Conservative
interest, had not for a moment allowed any political heterodoxy on his own part to stand in
the way of his advancement. It may, perhaps, be the case that a barrister is less likely to
be influenced by personal convictions in taking his side in politics than any other man who
devotes himself to public affairs. No slur on the profession is intended by this suggestion.
A busy, clever, useful man, who has been at work all his life, finds that his own progress
towards success demands from him that he shall become a politician. The highest work of a lawyer
can only be reached through political struggle. As a large-minded man of the world, peculiarly
conversant with the fact that every question has two sides, and that as much may often be said
on one side as on the other, he has probably not become violent in his feelings as a political
partisan. Thus he sees that there is an opening here or an opening there, and the offence in
either case is not great to him. With Frank Greystock the matter was very easy. There certainly
was no apostasy. He had now and again attacked his father's ultra-Toryism, and rebuked his
mother and sisters when they spoke of Gladstone as Apollyon, and called John Bright the Abomination
of Desolation. But it was easy to him to fancy himself a Conservative, and as such he took
his seat in the House without any feeling of discomfort.

During the first four months of his first session he had not spoken,--but he had made himself
useful. He had sat on one or two Committees, though as a barrister he might have excused himself,
and had done his best to learn the forms of the House. But he had already begun to find that
the time which he devoted to Parliament was much wanted for his profession. Money was very
necessary to him. Then a new idea was presented to him.

John Eustace and Greystock were very intimate,--as also had been Sir Florian and Greystock.
"I tell you what I wish you'd do, Greystock," Eustace said to him one day, as they were standing
idly together in the lobby of the House. For John Eustace was also in Parliament.

"Anything to oblige you, my friend."

"It's only a trifle," said Eustace. "Just to marry your cousin, my brother's widow."

"By Jove,--I wish I had the chance!"

"I don't see why you shouldn't. She is sure to marry somebody, and at her age so she ought.
She's not twenty-three yet. We could trust you,--with the child and all the rest of it. As
it is, she is giving us a deal of trouble."

"But, my dear fellow--"

"I know she's fond of you. You were dining there last Sunday.

"And so was Fawn. Lord Fawn is the man to marry Lizzie. You see if he doesn't. He was uncommonly
sweet on her the other night, and really interested her about the Sawab."

"She'll never be Lady Fawn," said John Eustace. "And to tell the truth, I shouldn't care to
have to deal with Lord Fawn. He would be infinitely troublesome; and I can hardly wash my hands
of her affairs. She's worth nearly £5,000 a year as long as she lives, and I really don't think
that she's much amiss."

"Much amiss! I don't know whether she's not the prettiest woman I ever saw," said Greystock.

"Yes;--but I mean in conduct, and all that. She is making herself queer; and Camperdown, our
lawyer, means to jump upon her; but it's only because she doesn't know what she ought to be
at, and what she ought not. You could tell her."

"It wouldn't suit me at all to have to quarrel with Camperdown," said the barrister, laughing.

"You and he would settle everything in five minutes, and it would save me a world of trouble,"
said Eustace.

"Fawn is your man;--take my word for it," said Greystock, as he walked back into the House.

     *     *     *     *     *

Dramatists, when they write their plays, have a delightful privilege of prefixing a list of
their personages;--and the dramatists of old used to tell us who was in love with whom, and
what were the blood relationships of all the persons. In such a narrative as this, any proceeding
of that kind would be unusual,--and therefore the poor narrator has been driven to expend his
first four chapters in the mere task of introducing his characters. He regrets the length of
these introductions, and will now begin at once the action of his story.

CHAPTER V

The Eustace Necklace

John Eustace, Lady Eustace's brother-in-law, had told his friend Greystock, the lady's cousin,
that Mr. Camperdown the lawyer intended to "jump upon" that lady. Making such allowance and
deduction from the force of these words as the slang expression requires, we may say that John
Eustace was right. Mr. Camperdown was in earnest, and did intend to obtain the restoration
of those jewels. Mr. Camperdown was a gentleman of about sixty, who had been lawyer to Sir
Florian's father, and whose father had been lawyer to Sir Florian's grandfather. His connexion
with the property and with the family was of a nature to allow him to take almost any liberty
with the Eustaces. When therefore John Eustace, in regard to those diamonds, had pleaded that
the heir in his long minority would obtain ample means of buying more diamonds, and of suggesting
that the plunder for the sake of tranquillity should be allowed, Mr. Camperdown took upon himself
to say that he'd "be ---- if he'd put up with it!" "I really don't know what you are to do,"
said John Eustace.

"I'll file a bill in Chancery if it's necessary," said the old lawyer. "Heaven on earth! as
trustee how are you to reconcile yourself to such a robbery? They represent £500 a year for
ever, and she is to have them simply because she chooses to take them!"

"I suppose Florian could have given them away. At any rate he could have sold them."

"I don't know that," said Mr. Camperdown. "I have not looked as yet, but I think that this
necklace has been made an heirloom. At any rate it represents an amount of property that shouldn't
and couldn't be made over legally without some visible evidence of transfer. It's as clear
a case of stealing as I ever knew in my life, and as bad a case. She hadn't a farthing, and
she has got the whole of the Ayrshire property for her life. She goes about and tells everybody
that it's hers to sell to-morrow if she pleases to sell it! No, John;--" Mr. Camperdown had
known Eustace when he was a boy, and had watched him become a man, and hadn't yet learned to
drop the name by which he had called the boy,--"we mustn't allow it. What do you think of her
applying to me for an income to support her child,--a baby not yet two years old?" Mr. Camperdown
had been very adverse to all the circumstances of Sir Florian's marriage, and had subjected
himself to Sir Florian's displeasure for expressing his opinion. He had tried to explain that
as the lady brought no money into the family she was not entitled to such a jointure as Sir
Florian was determined to lavish upon her. But Sir Florian had been obstinate,--both in regard
to the settlement and the will. It was not till after Sir Florian's death that this terrible
matter of the jewels had even suggested itself to Mr. Camperdown. The jewellers in whose custody
the things had been since the death of the late Lady Eustace had mentioned the affair to him
immediately on the young widow's return from Naples. Sir Florian had withdrawn, not all the
jewels, but by far the most valuable of them, from the jewellers' care on his return to London
from their marriage tour to Scotland, and this was the result. The jewellers were at that time
without any doubt as to the date at which the necklace was taken from them.

Mr. Camperdown's first attempt was made by a most courteous and even complimentary note, in
which he suggested to Lady Eustace that it would be for the advantage of all parties that the
family jewels should be kept together. Lizzie as she read this note smiled, and said to herself
that she did not exactly see how her own interests would be best served by such an arrangement.
She made no answer to Mr. Camperdown's note. Some months after this, when the heir was born,
and as Lady Eustace was passing through London on her journey from Bobsborough to Portray,
a meeting had been arranged between her and Mr. Camperdown. She had endeavoured by all the
wiles she knew to avoid this meeting, but it had been forced upon her. She had been almost
given to understand that unless she submitted to it, she would not be able to draw her income
from the Portray property. Messrs. Mowbray and Mopus had advised her to submit. "My husband
gave me a necklace, and they want me to give it back," she had said to Mr. Mopus. "Do nothing
of the kind," Mr. Mopus had replied. "If you find it necessary, refer Mr. Camperdown to us.
We will answer him." The interview had taken place, during which Mr. Camperdown took the trouble
to explain very plainly and more than once that the income from the Portray property belonged
to Lady Eustace for her life only. It would after her death be rejoined, of necessity, to the
rest of the Eustace property. This was repeated to Lady Eustace in the presence of John Eustace;
but she made no remark on being so informed. "You understand the nature of the settlement,
Lady Eustace?" Mr. Camperdown had said. "I believe I understand everything," she replied. Then,
just at the close of the interview, he asked a question about the jewels. Lady Eustace at first
made no reply. "They might as well be sent back to Messrs. Garnett's," said Mr. Camperdown.
"I don't know that I have any to send back," she answered; and then she escaped before Mr.
Camperdown was able to arrange any further attack. "I can manage with her better by letter
than I can personally," he said to John Eustace.

Lawyers such as Mr. Camperdown are slow, and it was three or four months after that when he
wrote a letter in his own name to Lady Eustace, explaining to her, still courteously, that
it was his business to see that the property of the Eustace family was placed in fit hands,
and that a certain valuable necklace of diamonds, which was an heirloom of the family, and
which was undeniably the property of the heir, was believed to be in her custody. As such property
was peculiarly subject to risks, would she have the kindness to make arrangements for handing
over the necklace to the custody of the Messrs. Garnett? To this letter Lizzie made no answer
whatever, nor did she to a second note, calling attention to the first. When John Eustace told
Greystock that Camperdown intended to "jump on" Lady Eustace, the following further letter
had been written by the firm;--but up to that time Lizzie had not replied to it:

   62, New Square, Lincoln's Inn,
   May 5, 186--.

   MADAM,

   It is our duty as attorneys acting on behalf of the estate
   of your late husband Sir Florian Eustace, and in the
   interest of your son, his heir, to ask for restitution
   of a certain valuable diamond necklace which is believed
   to be now in the possession of your ladyship. Our senior
   partner, Mr. Camperdown, has written to your ladyship more
   than once on the subject, but has not been honoured with
   any reply. Doubtless had there been any mistake as to
   the necklace being in your hands we should have been
   so informed. The diamonds were withdrawn from Messrs.
   Garnett's, the jewellers, by Sir Florian soon after his
   marriage, and were, no doubt, entrusted to your keeping.
   They are appanages of the family which should not be in
   your hands as the widow of the late baronet, and they
   constitute an amount of property which certainly cannot
   be alienated from the family without inquiry or right, as
   might any trifling article either of use or ornament. The
   jewels are valued at over £10,000.

   We are reluctantly compelled, by the fact of your having
   left unanswered three letters from Mr. Camperdown, Senior,
   on the subject, to explain to you that if attention be
   not paid to this letter, we shall be obliged, in the
   performance of our duty, to take legal steps for the
   restitution of the property.

   We have the honour to be,
   Madam,
   Your ladyship's most obedient servants,

   CAMPERDOWN & SON.

   To Lady Eustace.
   &c. &c.

A few days after it was sent old Mr. Camperdown got the letter-book of the office and read
the letter to John Eustace.

"I don't see how you're to get them," said Eustace.

"We'll throw upon her the burthen of showing that they have become legally her property. She
can't do it."

"Suppose she sold them?"

"We'll follow them up. £10,000, my dear John! God bless my soul! it's a magnificent dowry for
a daughter,--an ample provision for a younger son. And she is to be allowed to filch it, as
other widows filch china cups, and a silver teaspoon or two! It's quite a common thing, but
I never heard of such a haul as this."

"It will be very unpleasant," said Eustace.

"And then she still goes about everywhere declaring that the Portray property is her own. She's
a bad lot. I knew it from the first. Of course we shall have trouble." Then Mr. Eustace explained
to the lawyer that their best way out of it all would be to get the widow married to some respectable
husband. She was sure to marry sooner or later,--so John Eustace said,--and any "decently decent"
fellow would be easier to deal with than she herself. "He must be very indecently indecent
if he is not," said Mr. Camperdown. But Mr. Eustace did not name Frank Greystock the barrister
as the probable future decent husband.

When Lizzie first got the letter, which she did on the day after the visit at Fawn Court of
which mention has been made, she put it by unread for a couple of days. She opened it, not
knowing the clerk's handwriting, but read only the first line and the signature. For two days
she went on with the ordinary affairs and amusements of her life, as though no such letter
had reached her; but she was thinking of it all the time. The diamonds were in her possession,
and she had had them valued by her old friend Mr. Benjamin--of the firm of Harter and Benjamin.
Mr. Benjamin had suggested that stones of such a value should not be left to the risk of an
ordinary London house; but Lizzie had felt that if Mr. Benjamin got them into his hands, Mr.
Benjamin might perhaps not return them. Messrs. Camperdown and Garnett between them might form
a league with Mr. Benjamin. Where would she be, should Mr. Benjamin tell her that under some
legal sanction he had given the jewels up to Mr. Camperdown? She hinted to Mr. Benjamin that
she would perhaps sell them if she got a good offer. Mr. Benjamin, who was very familiar with
her, hinted that there might be a little family difficulty. "Oh, none in the least," said Lizzie;--"but
I don't think I shall part with them." Then she gave Mr. Benjamin an order for a strong box,
which was supplied to her. The strong box, which was so heavy that she could barely lift it
herself, was now in her London bedroom.

On the morning of the third day she read the letter. Miss Macnulty was staying with her, but
she had not said a word to Miss Macnulty about the letter. She read it up in her own bedroom,
and then sat down to think about it. Sir Florian, as he had handed to her the stones for the
purpose of a special dinner party which had been given to them when passing through London,
had told her that they were family jewels. "That setting was done for my mother," he said,
"but it is already old. When we are at home again they shall be reset." Then he had added some
little husband's joke as to a future daughter-in-law who should wear them. Nevertheless she
was not sure whether the fact of their being so handed to her did not make them her own. She
had spoken a second time to Mr. Mopus, and Mr. Mopus had asked her whether there existed any
family deed as to the diamonds. She had heard of no such deed, nor did Mr. Camperdown mention
such a deed. After reading the letter once she read it a dozen times; and then, like a woman,
made up her mind that her safest course would be not to answer it.

But yet she felt sure that something unpleasant would come of it. Mr. Camperdown was not a
man to take up such a question and to let it drop. Legal steps! What did legal steps mean,
and what could they do to her? Would Mr. Camperdown be able to put her in prison,--or to take
away from her the estate of Portray? She could swear that her husband had given them to her,
and could invent any form of words she pleased as accompanying the gift. No one else had been
near them then. But she was, and felt herself to be absolutely, alarmingly ignorant, not only
of the laws, but of custom in such matters. Messrs. Mowbray and Mopus and Mr. Benjamin were
the allies to whom she looked for guidance; but she was wise enough to know that Mowbray and
Mopus, and Harter and Benjamin were not trustworthy, whereas Camperdown and Son and the Messrs.
Garnett were all as firm as rocks and as respectable as the Bank of England. Circumstances,--unfortunate
circumstances,--drove her to Harter and Benjamin and to Mowbray and Mopus, while she would
have taken so much delight in feeling the strong honesty of the other people to be on her side!
She would have talked to her friends about Mr. Camperdown and the people at Garnett's with
so much satisfaction! But ease, security, and even respectability may be bought too dearly.
Ten thousand pounds! Was she prepared to surrender such a sum as that? She had, indeed, already
realised the fact that it might be very difficult to touch the money. When she had suggested
to Mr. Benjamin that he should buy the jewels, that worthy tradesman had by no means jumped
at the offer. Of what use to her would be a necklace always locked up in an iron box, which
box, for aught she knew, myrmidons from Mr. Camperdown might carry off during her absence from
the house? Would it not be better to come to terms and surrender? But then what should the
terms be?

If only there had been a friend whom she could consult; a friend whom she could consult on
a really friendly footing!--not a simply respectable, off-handed, high-minded friend, who would
advise her as a matter of course to make restitution. Her uncle the dean, or her cousin Frank,
or old Lady Fawn, would be sure to give her such advice as that. There are people who are so
very high-minded when they have to deal with the interests of their friends! What if she were
to ask Lord Fawn?

Thoughts of a second marriage had, of course, crossed Lady Eustace's mind, and they were by
no means the worst thoughts that found a place there. She had a grand idea,--this selfish,
hard-fisted little woman, who could not bring herself to abandon the plunder on which she had
laid her hand,--a grand idea of surrendering herself and all her possessions to a great passion.
For Florian Eustace she had never cared. She had sat down by his side, and looked into his
handsome face, and read poetry to him,--because of his wealth, and because it had been indispensable
to her to settle herself well. And he had been all very well,--a generous, open-hearted, chivalrous,
irascible, but rather heavy-minded gentleman; but she had never been in love with him. Now
she desired to be so in love that she could surrender everything to her love. There was as
yet nothing of such love in her bosom. She had seen no one who had so touched her. But she
was alive to the romance of the thing, and was in love with the idea of being in love. "Ah,"
she would say to herself in her moments of solitude, "if I had a Corsair of my own, how I would
sit on watch for my lover's boat by the sea-shore!" And she believed it of herself, that she
could do so.

But it would also be very nice to be a peeress,--so that she might, without any doubt, be one
of the great ladies of London. As a baronet's widow with a large income, she was already almost
a great lady; but she was quite alive to a suspicion that she was not altogether strong in
her position. The bishop's people and the dean's people did not quite trust her. The Camperdowns
and Garnetts utterly distrusted her. The Mopuses and Benjamins were more familiar than they
would be with a really great lady. She was sharp enough to understand all this. Should it be
Lord Fawn or should it be a Corsair? The worst of Lord Fawn was the undoubted fact that he
was not himself a great man. He could, no doubt, make his wife a peeress; but he was poor,
encumbered with a host of sisters, dull as a blue-book, and possessed of little beyond his
peerage to recommend him. If she could only find a peer, unmarried, with a dash of the Corsair
about him! In the meantime, what was she to do about the jewels?

There was staying with her at this time a certain Miss Macnulty, who was related, after some
distant fashion, to old Lady Linlithgow, and who was as utterly destitute of possessions or
means of existence as any unfortunate, well-born, and moderately-educated, middle-aged woman
in London. To live upon her friends, such as they might be, was the only mode of life within
her reach. It was not that she had chosen such dependence; nor, indeed, had she endeavoured
to reject it. It had come to her as a matter of course,--either that or the poor-house. As
to earning her bread, except by that attendance which a poor friend gives,--the idea of any
possibility that way had never entered her head. She could do nothing,--except dress like a
lady with the smallest possible cost, and endeavour to be obliging. Now, at this moment, her
condition was terribly precarious. She had quarrelled with Lady Linlithgow, and had been taken
in by her old friend Lizzie,--her old enemy might, perhaps, be a truer expression,--because
of that quarrel. But a permanent home had not even been promised to her; and poor Miss Macnulty
was aware that even a permanent home with Lady Eustace would not be an unmixed blessing. In
her way, Miss Macnulty was an honest woman.

They were sitting together one May afternoon in the little back drawing-room in Mount Street.
They had dined early, were now drinking tea, and intended to go to the opera. It was six o'clock,
and was still broad day, but the thick coloured blind was kept across the single window, and
the folding doors of the room were nearly closed, and there was a feeling of evening in the
room. The necklace during the whole day had been so heavy on Lizzie's heart, that she had been
unable to apply her thoughts to the building of that castle in the air in which the Corsair
was to reign supreme, but not alone. "My dear," she said,--she generally called Miss Macnulty
my dear,--"you know that box I had made by the jewellers."

"You mean the safe."

"Well,--yes; only it isn't a safe. A safe is a great big thing. I had it made especially for
the diamonds Sir Florian gave me."

"I supposed it was so."

"I wonder whether there's any danger about it?"

"If I were you, Lady Eustace, I wouldn't keep them in the house. I should have them kept where
Sir Florian kept them. Suppose anybody should come and murder you!"

"I'm not a bit afraid of that," said Lizzie.

"I should be. And what will you do with it when you go to Scotland?"

"I took them with me before;--in my own care. I know that wasn't safe. I wish I knew what to
do with them!"

"There are people who keep such things," said Miss Macnulty.

Then Lizzie paused a moment. She was dying for counsel and for confidence. "I cannot trust
them anywhere," she said. "It is just possible there may be a lawsuit about them."

"How a lawsuit?"

"I cannot explain it all, but I am very unhappy about it. They want me to give them up;--but
my husband gave them to me, and for his sake I will not do so. When he threw them round my
neck he told me that they were my own;--so he did. How can a woman give up such a present,--from
a husband,--who is dead? As to the value, I care nothing. But I won't do it." By this time
Lady Eustace was in tears, and had so far succeeded as to have produced some amount of belief
in Miss Macnulty's mind.

"If they are your own, they can't take them from you," said Miss Macnulty.

"They sha'n't. They shall find that I've got some spirit left." Then she reflected that a real
Corsair lover would protect her jewels for her;--would guard them against a score of Camperdowns.
But she doubted whether Lord Fawn would do much in that way. Then the door was opened, and
Lord Fawn was announced. It was not at all unusual with Lord Fawn to call on the widow at this
hour. Mount Street is not exactly in the way from the India Office to the House of Lords; but
a Hansom cab can make it almost in the way. Of neglect of official duty Lord Fawn was never
guilty; but a half hour for private business or for relaxation between one stage of duty and
another,--can any Minister grudge so much to an indefatigable follower? Lady Eustace had been
in tears as he was announced, but the light of the room was so low that the traces of them
could hardly be seen. She was in her Corsair state of mind, divided between her jewels and
her poetry, and caring not very much for the increased rank which Lord Fawn could give her.
"The Sawab's case is coming on in the House of Commons this very night," he said, in answer
to a question from Miss Macnulty. Then he turned to Lady Eustace. "Your cousin, Mr. Greystock,
is going to ask a question in the House."

"Shall you be there to answer him?" asked Miss Macnulty innocently.

"Oh dear, no. But I shall be present. A peer can go, you know." Then Lord Fawn, at considerable
length, explained to the two ladies the nature and condition of the British Parliament. Miss
Macnulty experienced an innocent pleasure in having such things told to her by a lord. Lady
Eustace knew that this was the way in which Lord Fawn made love, and thought that from him
it was as good as any other way. If she were to marry a second time simply with the view of
being a peeress, of having a respected husband, and making good her footing in the world, she
would as lief listen to parliamentary details and the prospects of the Sawab as to any other
matters. She knew very well that no Corsair propensities would be forthcoming from Lord Fawn.
Lord Fawn had just worked himself round to the Sawab again, when Frank Greystock entered the
room. "Now we have both the Houses represented," said Lady Eustace, as she welcomed her cousin.

"You intend to ask your question about the Sawab to-night?" asked Lord Fawn, with intense interest,
feeling that, had it been his lot to perform that task before he went to his couch, he would
at this moment have been preparing his little speech.

But Frank Greystock had not come to his cousin's house to talk of the Prince of the Mygawb
territory. When his friend Eustace had suggested to him that he should marry the widow, he
had ridiculed the idea;--but nevertheless he had thought of it a good deal. He was struggling
hard, working diligently, making for himself a character in Parliament, succeeding,--so said
all his friends,--as a barrister. He was a rising young man, one of those whose names began
to be much in the mouths of other men;--but still he was poor. It seemed to himself that among
other good gifts that of economy had not been bestowed upon him. He owed a little money, and
though he owed it, he went on spending his earnings. He wanted just such a lift in the world
as a wife with an income would give him. As for looking about for a girl whom he could honestly
love, and who should have a fortune of her own as well as beauty, birth, and all the other
things,--that was out of his reach. If he talked to himself of love, if he were ever to acknowledge
to himself that love was to have sway over him, then must Lucy Morris be the mistress of his
heart. He had come to know enough about himself to be aware of that;--but he knew also that
he had said nothing binding him to walk in that path. It was quite open to him to indulge a
discreet ambition without dishonour. Therefore he also had come to call upon the beautiful
widow. The courtship with her he knew need not be long. He could ask her to marry him to-morrow,--as
for that matter to-day,--without a feeling of hesitation. She might accept him or might reject
him; but, as he said to himself, in neither case would any harm be done.

An idea of the same kind flitted across Lizzie's mind as she sat and talked to the two gentlemen.
She knew that her cousin Frank was poor, but she thought that she could fall in love with him.
He was not exactly a Corsair;--but he was a man who had certain Corsair propensities. He was
bold and dashing, unscrupulous and clever, a man to make a name for himself, and one to whom
a woman could endure to be obedient. There could be no question as to choice between him and
Lord Fawn, if she were to allow herself to choose by liking. And she thought that Frank Greystock
would keep the necklace, if he himself were made to have an interest in the necklace; whereas
Lord Fawn would undoubtedly surrender it at once to Mr. Camperdown.

Lord Fawn had some slight idea of waiting to see the cousin go; but as Greystock had a similar
idea, and as he was the stronger of the two, of course Lord Fawn went. He perhaps remembered
that the Hansom cab was at the door,--costing sixpence every fifteen minutes,--and that he
wished to show himself in the House of Lords before the peers rose. Miss Macnulty also left
the room, and Frank was alone with the widow. "Lizzie," said he, "you must be very solitary here."

"I am solitary."

"And hardly happy."

"Anything but happy, Frank. I have things that make me very unhappy;--one thing that I will
tell you if you will let me." Frank had almost made up his mind to ask her on the spot to give
him permission to console all her sorrows, when there came a clattering double-knock at the
door. "They know I shall be at home to nobody else now," said Lady Eustace. But Frank Greystock
had hardly regained his self-possession when Miss Macnulty hurried into the room, and, with
a look almost of horror, declared that Lady Linlithgow was in the parlour.

CHAPTER VI

Lady Linlithgow's Mission

"Lady Linlithgow!"--said Frank Greystock, holding up both his hands.

"Yes, indeed!" said Miss Macnulty. "I did not speak to her, but I saw her. She has sent her--love
to Lady Eustace, and begs that she will see her."

Lady Eustace had been so surprised by the announcement that hitherto she had not spoken a word.
The quarrel between her and her aunt had been of such a nature that it had seemed to be impossible
that the old countess should come to Mount Street. Lizzie had certainly behaved very badly
to her aunt;--about as badly as a young woman could behave to an old woman. She had accepted
bread, and shelter, and the very clothes on her back from her aunt's bounty, and had rejected
even the hand of her benefactress the first moment that she had bread, and shelter, and clothes
of her own. And here was Lady Linlithgow down-stairs in the parlour, and sending up her love
to her niece! "I won't see her!" said Lizzie.

"You had better see her," said Frank.

"I can't see her!" said Lizzie. "Good gracious, my dear--what has she come for?"

"She says it's very important," said Miss Macnulty.

"Of course you must see her," said Frank. "Let me get out of the house, and then tell the servant
to show her up at once. Don't be weak now, Lizzie, and I'll come and find out all about it
to-morrow."

"Mind you do," said Lizzie. Then Frank took his departure, and Lizzie did as she was bidden.
"You remain in here, Julia," she said,--"so as to be near if I want you. She shall come into
the front room." Then, absolutely shaking with fear of the approaching evil, she took her seat
in the largest drawing-room. There was still a little delay. Time was given to Frank Greystock
to get away, and to do so without meeting Lady Linlithgow in the passage. The message was conveyed
by Miss Macnulty to the servant, and the same servant opened the front door for Frank before
he delivered it. Lady Linlithgow, too, though very strong, was old. She was slow, or perhaps
it might more properly be said she was stately in her movements. She was one of those old women
who are undoubtedly old women,--who in the remembrance of younger people seem always to have
been old women,--but on whom old age appears to have no debilitating effects. If the hand of
Lady Linlithgow ever trembled, it trembled from anger;--if her foot ever faltered, it faltered
for effect. In her way Lady Linlithgow was a very powerful human being. She knew nothing of
fear, nothing of charity, nothing of mercy, and nothing of the softness of love. She had no
imagination. She was worldly, covetous, and not unfrequently cruel. But she meant to be true
and honest, though she often failed in her meaning;--and she had an idea of her duty in life.
She was not self-indulgent. She was as hard as an oak post,--but then she was also as trustworthy.
No human being liked her;--but she had the good word of a great many human beings. At great
cost to her own comfort she had endeavoured to do her duty to her niece, Lizzie Greystock,
when Lizzie was homeless. Undoubtedly Lizzie's bed, while it had been spread under her aunt's
roof, had not been one of roses; but such as it had been, she had endured to occupy it while
it served her needs. She had constrained herself to bear her aunt;--but from the moment of
her escape she had chosen to reject her aunt altogether. Now her aunt's heavy step was heard
upon the stairs! Lizzie also was a brave woman after a certain fashion. She could dare to incur
a great danger for an adequate object. But she was too young as yet to have become mistress
of that persistent courage which was Lady Linlithgow's peculiar possession.

When the countess entered the drawing-room Lizzie rose upon her legs, but did not come forward
from her chair. The old woman was not tall;--but her face was long, and at the same time large,
square at the chin and square at the forehead, and gave her almost an appearance of height.
Her nose was very prominent, not beaked, but straight and strong, and broad at the bridge,
and of a dark-red colour. Her eyes were sharp and grey. Her mouth was large, and over it there
was almost beard enough for a young man's moustache. Her chin was firm, and large, and solid.
Her hair was still brown, and was only just grizzled in parts. Nothing becomes an old woman
like grey hair, but Lady Linlithgow's hair would never be grey. Her appearance on the whole
was not pre-possessing, but it gave one an idea of honest, real strength. What one saw was
not buckram, whalebone, paint, and false hair. It was all human,--hardly feminine, certainly
not angelic, with perhaps a hint in the other direction,--but a human body, and not a thing
of pads and patches. Lizzie, as she saw her aunt, made up her mind for the combat. Who is there
that has lived to be a man or woman, and has not experienced a moment in which a combat has
impended, and a call for such sudden courage has been necessary? Alas!--sometimes the combat
comes, and the courage is not there. Lady Eustace was not at her ease as she saw her aunt enter
the room. "Oh, come ye in peace, or come ye in war?" she would have said had she dared. Her
aunt had sent up her love,--if the message had been delivered aright; but what of love could
there be between the two? The countess dashed at once to the matter in hand, making no allusion
to Lizzie's ungrateful conduct to herself. "Lizzie," she said, "I've been asked to come to
you by Mr. Camperdown. I'll sit down, if you please."

"Oh, certainly, Aunt Penelope. Mr. Camperdown!"

"Yes;--Mr. Camperdown. You know who he is. He has been with me because I am your nearest relation.
So I am, and therefore I have come. I don't like it, I can tell you."

"As for that, Aunt Penelope, you've done it to please yourself," said Lizzie, in a tone of
insolence with which Lady Linlithgow had been familiar in former days.

"No, I haven't, miss. I haven't come for my own pleasure at all. I have come for the credit
of the family, if any good can be done towards saving it. You've got your husband's diamonds
locked up somewhere, and you must give them back."

"My husband's diamonds were my diamonds," said Lizzie stoutly.

"They are family diamonds, Eustace diamonds, heirlooms,--old property belonging to the Eustaces,
just like their estates. Sir Florian didn't give 'em away, and couldn't, and wouldn't if he
could. Such things ain't given away in that fashion. It's all nonsense, and you must give them up."

"Who says so?"

"I say so."

"That's nothing, Aunt Penelope."

"Nothing, is it? You'll see. Mr. Camperdown says so. All the world will say so. If you don't
take care, you'll find yourself brought into a court of law, my dear, and a jury will say so.
That's what it will come to. What good will they do you? You can't sell them;--and as a widow
you can't wear 'em. If you marry again, you wouldn't disgrace your husband by going about showing
off the Eustace diamonds! But you don't know anything about 'proper feelings.'"

"I know every bit as much as you do, Aunt Penelope, and I don't want you to teach me."

"Will you give up the jewels to Mr. Camperdown?"

"No--I won't."

"Or to the jewellers?"

"No; I won't. I mean to--keep them--for--my child." Then there came forth a sob, and a tear,
and Lizzie's handkerchief was held to her eyes.

"Your child! Wouldn't they be kept properly for him, and for the family, if the jewellers had
them? I don't believe you care about your child."

"Aunt Penelope, you had better take care."

"I shall say just what I think, Lizzie. You can't frighten me. The fact is, you are disgracing
the family you have married into, and as you are my niece--"

"I'm not disgracing anybody. You are disgracing everybody."

"As you are my niece, I have undertaken to come to you and to tell you that if you don't give
'em up within a week from this time, they'll proceed against you for--stealing 'em!" Lady Linlithgow,
as she uttered this terrible threat, bobbed her head at her niece in a manner calculated to
add very much to the force of her words. The words, and tone, and gesture combined were, in
truth, awful.

"I didn't steal them. My husband gave them to me with his own hands."

"You wouldn't answer Mr. Camperdown's letters, you know. That alone will condemn you. After
that there isn't a word to be said about it;--not a word. Mr. Camperdown is the family lawyer,
and when he writes to you letter after letter you take no more notice of him than a--dog!"
The old woman was certainly very powerful. The way in which she pronounced that last word did
make Lady Eustace ashamed of herself. "Why didn't you answer his letters, unless you knew you
were in the wrong? Of course you knew you were in the wrong."

"No; I didn't. A woman isn't obliged to answer everything that is written to her."

"Very well! You just say that before the judge! for you'll have to go before a judge. I tell
you, Lizzie Greystock, or Eustace, or whatever your name is, it's downright picking and stealing.
I suppose you want to sell them."

"I won't stand this, Aunt Penelope!" said Lizzie, rising from her seat.

"You must stand it;--and you'll have to stand worse than that. You don't suppose Mr. Camperdown
got me to come here for nothing. If you don't want to be made out to be a thief before all
the world--"

"I won't stand it!" shrieked Lizzie. "You have no business to come here and say such things
to me. It's my house."

"I shall say just what I please."

"Miss Macnulty, come in." And Lizzie threw open the door, hardly knowing how the very weak
ally whom she now invoked could help her, but driven by the stress of the combat to seek assistance
somewhere. Miss Macnulty, who was seated near the door, and who had necessarily heard every
word of the conversation, had no alternative but to appear. Of all human beings Lady Linlithgow
was to her the most terrible, and yet, after a fashion, she loved the old woman. Miss Macnulty
was humble, cowardly, and subservient; but she was not a fool, and she understood the difference
between truth and falsehood. She had endured fearful things from Lady Linlithgow; but she knew
that there might be more of sound protection in Lady Linlithgow's real wrath than in Lizzie's
pretended affection.

"So you are there, are you?" said the countess.

"Yes;--I am here, Lady Linlithgow."

"Listening, I suppose. Well;--so much the better. You know well enough, and you can tell her.
You ain't a fool, though I suppose you'll be afraid to open your mouth."

"Julia," said Lady Eustace, "will you have the kindness to see that my aunt is shown to her
carriage. I cannot stand her violence, and I will go up-stairs." So saying she made her way
very gracefully into the back drawing-room, whence she could escape to her bed-room.

But her aunt fired a last shot at her. "Unless you do as you're bid, Lizzie, you'll find yourself
in prison as sure as eggs!" Then, when her niece was beyond hearing, she turned to Miss Macnulty.
"I suppose you've heard about these diamonds, Macnulty?"

"I know she's got them, Lady Linlithgow."

"She has no more right to them than you have. I suppose you're afraid to tell her so, lest
she should turn you out;--but it's well she should know it. I've done my duty. Never mind about
the servant. I'll find my way out of the house." Nevertheless the bell was rung, and the countess
was shown to her carriage with proper consideration.

The two ladies went to the opera, and it was not till after their return, and just as they
were going to bed, that anything further was said about either the necklace or the visit. Miss
Macnulty would not begin the subject, and Lizzie purposely postponed it. But not for a moment
had it been off Lady Eustace's mind. She did not care much for music, though she professed
to do so,--and thought that she did. But on this night, had she at other times been a slave
to St. Cecilia, she would have been free from that thraldom. The old woman's threats had gone
into her very heart's blood. Theft, and prison, and juries, and judges had been thrown at her
head so violently that she was almost stunned. Could it really be the case that they would
prosecute her for stealing? She was Lady Eustace, and who but Lady Eustace should have these
diamonds or be allowed to wear them? Nobody could say that Sir Florian had not given them to
her. It could not, surely, be brought against her as an actual crime that she had not answered
Mr. Camperdown's letters? And yet she was not sure. Her ideas about law and judicial proceedings
were very vague. Of what was wrong and what was right she had a distinct notion. She knew well
enough that she was endeavouring to steal the Eustace diamonds; but she did not in the least
know what power there might be in the law to prevent, or to punish her for the intended theft.
She knew well that the thing was not really her own; but there were, as she thought, so many
points in her favour, that she felt it to be a cruelty that any one should grudge her the plunder.
Was not she the only Lady Eustace living? As to these threats from Mr. Camperdown and Lady
Linlithgow, she felt certain they would be used against her whether they were true or false.
She would break her heart should she abandon her prey and afterwards find that Mr. Camperdown
would have been wholly powerless against her had she held on to it. But then who would tell
her the truth? She was sharp enough to understand, or at any rate suspicious enough to believe,
that Mr. Mopus would be actuated by no other desire in the matter than that of running up a
bill against her. "My dear," she said to Miss Macnulty, as they went up-stairs after the opera,
"come into my room a moment. You heard all that my aunt said?"

"I could not help hearing. You told me to stay there, and the door was ajar."

"I wanted you to hear. Of course what she said was the greatest nonsense in the world."

"I don't know."

"When she talked about my being taken to prison for not answering a lawyer's letter, that must
be nonsense?"

"I suppose that was."

"And then she is such a ferocious old termagant,--such an old vulturess. Now isn't she a ferocious
old termagant?" Lizzie paused for an answer, desirous that her companion should join her in
her enmity against her aunt, but Miss Macnulty was unwilling to say anything against one who
had been her protectress, and might, perhaps, be her protectress again. "You don't mean to
say you don't hate her?" said Lizzie. "If you didn't hate her after all she has done to you,
I should despise you. Don't you hate her?"

"I think she's a very upsetting old woman," said Miss Macnulty.

"Oh, you poor creature! Is that all you dare to say about her?"

"I'm obliged to be a poor creature," said Miss Macnulty, with a red spot on each of her cheeks.

Lady Eustace understood this, and relented. "But you needn't be afraid," she said, "to tell
me what you think."

"About the diamonds, you mean?"

"Yes; about the diamonds."

"You have enough without them. I'd give 'em up for peace and quiet." That was Miss Macnulty's
advice.

"No;--I haven't enough;--or nearly enough. I've had to buy ever so many things since my husband
died. They've done all they could to be hard to me. They made me pay for the very furniture
at Portray." This wasn't true; but it was true that Lizzie had endeavoured to palm off on the
Eustace estate bills for new things which she had ordered for her own country-house. "I haven't
near enough. I am in debt already. People talked as though I were the richest woman in the
world; but when it comes to be spent, I ain't rich. Why should I give them up if they're my own?"

"Not if they're your own."

"If I give you a present and then die, people can't come and take it away afterwards because
I didn't put it into my will. There'd be no making presents like that at all." This Lizzie
said with an evident conviction in the strength of her argument.

"But this necklace is so very valuable."

"That can't make a difference. If a thing is a man's own he can give it away;--not a house,
or a farm, or a wood, or anything like that; but a thing that he can carry about with him,--of
course he can give it away."

"But perhaps Sir Florian didn't mean to give it for always," suggested Miss Macnulty.

"But perhaps he did. He told me that they were mine, and I shall keep them. So that's the end
of it. You can go to bed now." And Miss Macnulty went to bed.

Lizzie, as she sat thinking of it, owned to herself that no help was to be expected in that
quarter. She was not angry with Miss Macnulty, who was, almost of necessity, a poor creature.
But she was convinced more strongly than ever that some friend was necessary to her who should
not be a poor creature. Lord Fawn, though a peer, was a poor creature. Frank Greystock she
believed to be as strong as a house.

CHAPTER VII

Mr. Burke's Speeches

Lucy Morris had been told by Lady Fawn that,--in point of fact that, being a governess, she
ought to give over falling in love with Frank Greystock, and she had not liked it. Lady Fawn
no doubt had used words less abrupt,--had probably used but few words, and had expressed her
meaning chiefly by little winks, and shakings of her head, and small gestures of her hands,
and had ended by a kiss,--in all of which she had intended to mingle mercy with justice, and
had, in truth, been full of love. Nevertheless, Lucy had not liked it. No girl likes to be
warned against falling in love, whether the warning be needed or not needed. In this case Lucy
knew very well that the caution was too late. It might be all very well for Lady Fawn to decide
that her governess should not receive visits from a lover in her house;--and then the governess
might decide whether, in those circumstances, she would remain or go away; but Lady Fawn could
have no right to tell her governess not to be in love. All this Lucy said to herself over and
over again, and yet she knew that Lady Fawn had treated her well. The old woman had kissed
her, and purred over her, and praised her, and had really loved her. As a matter of course,
Lucy was not entitled to have a lover. Lucy knew that well enough. As she walked alone among
the shrubs she made arguments in defence of Lady Fawn as against herself. And yet at every
other minute she would blaze up into a grand wrath, and picture to herself a scene in which
she would tell Lady Fawn boldly that as her lover had been banished from Fawn Court, she, Lucy,
would remain there no longer. There were but two objections to this course. The first was that
Frank Greystock was not her lover; and the second, that on leaving Fawn Court she would not
know whither to betake herself. It was understood by everybody that she was never to leave
Fawn Court till an unexceptionable home should be found for her, either with the Hittaways
or elsewhere. Lady Fawn would no more allow her to go away, depending for her future on the
mere chance of some promiscuous engagement, than she would have turned one of her own daughters
out of the house in the same forlorn condition. Lady Fawn was a tower of strength to Lucy.
But then a tower of strength may at any moment become a dungeon.

Frank Greystock was not her lover. Ah,--there was the worst of it all! She had given her heart
and had got nothing in return. She conned it all over in her own mind, striving to ascertain
whether there was any real cause for shame to her in her own conduct. Had she been unmaidenly?
Had she been too forward with her heart? Had it been extracted from her, as women's hearts
are extracted, by efforts on the man's part; or had she simply chucked it away from her to
the first comer? Then she remembered certain scenes at the deanery, words that had been spoken,
looks that had been turned upon her, a pressure of the hand late at night, a little whisper,
a ribbon that had been begged, a flower that had been given;--and once, once--; then there
came a burning blush upon her cheek that there should have been so much, and yet so little
that was of avail. She had no right to say to any one that the man was her lover. She had no
right to assure herself that he was her lover. But she knew that some wrong was done her in
that he was not her lover.

Of the importance of her own self as a living thing with a heart to suffer and a soul to endure,
she thought enough. She believed in herself, thinking of herself, that should it ever be her
lot to be a man's wife, she would be to him a true, loving friend and companion, living in
his joys, and fighting, if it were necessary, down to the stumps of her nails in his interests.
But of what she had to give over and above her heart and intellect she never thought at all.
Of personal beauty she had very little appreciation even in others. The form and face of Lady
Eustace, which indeed were very lovely, were distasteful to her; whereas she delighted to look
upon the broad, plain, colourless countenance of Lydia Fawn, who was endeared to her by frank
good humour and an unselfish disposition. In regard to men she had never asked herself the
question whether this man was handsome or that man ugly. Of Frank Greystock she knew that his
face was full of quick intellect; and of Lord Fawn she knew that he bore no outward index of
mind. One man she not only loved, but could not help loving; the other man, as regarded that
sort of sympathy which marriage should recognise, must always have been worlds asunder from
her. She knew that men demand that women shall possess beauty, and she certainly had never
thought of herself as beautiful; but it did not occur to her that on that account she was doomed
to fail. She was too strong-hearted for any such fear. She did not think much of these things,
but felt herself to be so far endowed as to be fit to be the wife of such a man as Frank Greystock.
She was a proud, stout, self-confident, but still modest little woman, too fond of truth to
tell lies of herself even to herself. She was possessed of a great power of sympathy, genial,
very social, greatly given to the mirth of conversation,--though in talking she would listen
much and say but little. She was keenly alive to humour, and had at her command a great fund
of laughter, which would illumine her whole face without producing a sound from her mouth.
She knew herself to be too good to be a governess for life;--and yet how could it be otherwise
with her?

Lady Linlithgow's visit to her niece had been made on a Thursday, and on that same evening
Frank Greystock had asked his question in the House of Commons,--or rather had made his speech
about the Sawab of Mygawb. We all know the meaning of such speeches. Had not Frank belonged
to the party that was out, and had not the resistance to the Sawab's claim come from the party
that was in, Frank would not probably have cared much about the prince. We may be sure that
he would not have troubled himself to read a line of that very dull and long pamphlet of which
he had to make himself master before he could venture to stir in the matter, had not the road
of Opposition been open to him in that direction. But what exertion will not a politician make
with the view of getting the point of his lance within the joints of his enemies' harness?
Frank made his speech, and made it very well. It was just the case for a lawyer, admitting
that kind of advocacy which it is a lawyer's business to practise. The Indian minister of the
day, Lord Fawn's chief, had determined, after much anxious consideration, that it was his duty
to resist the claim; and then, for resisting it, he was attacked. Had he yielded to the claim,
the attack would have been as venomous, and very probably would have come from the same quarter.
No blame by such an assertion is cast upon the young Conservative aspirant for party honours.
It is thus the war is waged. Frank Greystock took up the Sawab's case, and would have drawn
mingled tears and indignation from his hearers, had not his hearers all known the conditions
of the contest. On neither side did the hearers care much for the Sawab's claims, but they
felt that Greystock was making good his own claims to some future reward from his party. He
was very hard upon the minister,--and he was hard also upon Lord Fawn, stating that the cruelty
of Government ascendancy had never been put forward as a doctrine in plainer terms than those
which had been used in "another place" in reference to the wrongs of this poor ill-used native
chieftain. This was very grievous to Lord Fawn, who had personally desired to favour the ill-used
chieftain;--and harder again because he and Greystock were intimate with each other. He felt
the thing keenly, and was full of his grievance when, in accordance with his custom, he came
down to Fawn Court on the Saturday evening.

The Fawn family, which consisted entirely of women, dined early. On Saturdays, when his lordship
would come down, a dinner was prepared for him alone. On Sundays they all dined together at
three o'clock. On Sunday evening Lord Fawn would return to town to prepare himself for his
Monday's work. Perhaps, also, he disliked the sermon which Lady Fawn always read to the assembled
household at nine o'clock on Sunday evening. On this Saturday he came out into the grounds
after dinner, where the oldest unmarried daughter, the present Miss Fawn, was walking with
Lucy Morris. It was almost a summer evening;--so much so, that some of the party had been sitting
on the garden benches, and four of the girls were still playing croquet on the lawn, though
there was hardly light enough to see the balls. Miss Fawn had already told Lucy that her brother
was very angry with Mr. Greystock. Now, Lucy's sympathies were all with Frank and the Sawab.
She had endeavoured, indeed, and had partially succeeded, in perverting the Under-Secretary.
Nor did she now intend to change her opinions, although all the Fawn girls, and Lady Fawn,
were against her. When a brother or a son is an Under-Secretary of State, sisters and mothers
will constantly be on the side of the Government, so far as that Under-Secretary's office is
concerned.

"Upon my word, Frederic," said Augusta Fawn, "I do think Mr. Greystock was too bad."

"There's nothing these fellows won't say or do," exclaimed Lord Fawn. "I can't understand it
myself. When I've been in opposition, I never did that kind of thing."

"I wonder whether it was because he is angry with mamma," said Miss Fawn. Everybody who knew
the Fawns knew that Augusta Fawn was not clever, and that she would occasionally say the very
thing that ought not to be said.

"Oh, dear, no," said the Under-Secretary, who could not endure the idea that the weak women-kind
of his family should have, in any way, an influence on the august doings of Parliament.

"You know mamma did--"

"Nothing of that kind at all," said his lordship, putting down his sister with great authority.
"Mr. Greystock is simply not an honest politician. That is about the whole of it. He chose
to attack me because there was an opportunity. There isn't a man in either House who cares
for such things, personally, less than I do;"--had his lordship said "more than he did," he
might, perhaps, have been correct;--"but I can't bear the feeling. The fact is, a lawyer never
understands what is and what is not fair fighting."

Lucy felt her face tingling with heat, and was preparing to say a word in defence of that special
lawyer, when Lady Fawn's voice was heard from the drawing-room window. "Come in, girls. It's
nine o'clock." In that house Lady Fawn reigned supreme, and no one ever doubted, for a moment,
as to obedience. The clicking of the balls ceased, and those who were walking immediately turned
their faces to the drawing-room window. But Lord Fawn, who was not one of the girls, took another
turn by himself, thinking of the wrongs he had endured.

"Frederic is so angry about Mr. Greystock," said Augusta, as soon as they were seated.

"I do feel that it was provoking," said the second sister.

"And considering that Mr. Greystock has so often been here, I don't think it was kind," said
the third.

Lydia did not speak, but could not refrain from glancing her eyes at Lucy's face. "I believe
everything is considered fair in Parliament," said Lady Fawn.

Then Lord Fawn, who had heard the last words, entered through the window. "I don't know about
that, mother," said he. "Gentleman-like conduct is the same everywhere. There are things that
may be said and there are things which may not. Mr. Greystock has altogether gone beyond the
usual limits, and I shall take care that he knows my opinion."

"You are not going to quarrel with the man?" asked the mother.

"I am not going to fight him, if you mean that; but I shall let him know that I think that
he has transgressed." This his lordship said with that haughty superiority which a man may
generally display with safety among the women of his own family.

Lucy had borne a great deal, knowing well that it was better that she should bear such injury
in silence;--but there was a point beyond which she could not endure it. It was intolerable
to her that Mr. Greystock's character as a gentleman should be impugned before all the ladies
of the family, every one of whom did, in fact, know her liking for the man. And then it seemed
to her that she could rush into the battle, giving a side blow at his lordship on behalf of
his absent antagonist, but appearing to fight for the Sawab. There had been a time when the
poor Sawab was in favour at Fawn Court. "I think Mr. Greystock was right to say all he could
for the prince. If he took up the cause, he was bound to make the best of it." She spoke with
energy and with a heightened colour; and Lady Fawn, hearing her, shook her head at her.

"Did you read Mr. Greystock's speech, Miss Morris?" asked Lord Fawn.

"Every word of it, in the Times."

"And you understood his allusion to what I had been called upon to say in the House of Lords
on behalf of the Government?"

"I suppose I did. It did not seem to be difficult to understand."

"I do think Mr. Greystock should have abstained from attacking Frederic," said Augusta.

"It was not--not quite the thing that we are accustomed to," said Lord Fawn.

"Of course I don't know about that," said Lucy. "I think the prince is being used very ill,--that
he is being deprived of his own property,--that he is kept out of his rights, just because
he is weak, and I am very glad that there is some one to speak up for him."

"My dear Lucy," said Lady Fawn, "if you discuss politics with Lord Fawn, you'll get the worst
of it."

"I don't at all object to Miss Morris's views about the Sawab," said the Under-Secretary generously.
"There is a great deal to be said on both sides. I know of old that Miss Morris is a great
friend of the Sawab."

"You used to be his friend too," said Lucy.

"I felt for him,--and do feel for him. All that is very well. I ask no one to agree with me
on the question itself. I only say that Mr. Greystock's mode of treating it was unbecoming."

"I think it was the very best speech I ever read in my life," said Lucy, with headlong energy
and heightened colour.

"Then, Miss Morris, you and I have very different opinions about speeches," said Lord Fawn,
with severity. "You have, probably, never read Burke's speeches."

"And I don't want to read them," said Lucy.

"That is another question," said Lord Fawn; and his tone and manner were very severe indeed.

"We are talking about speeches in Parliament," said Lucy. Poor Lucy! She knew quite as well
as did Lord Fawn that Burke had been a House of Commons orator; but in her impatience, and
from absence of the habit of argument, she omitted to explain that she was talking about the
speeches of the day.

Lord Fawn held up his hands, and put his head a little on one side. "My dear Lucy," said Lady
Fawn, "you are showing your ignorance. Where do you suppose that Mr. Burke's speeches were made?"

"Of course I know they were made in Parliament," said Lucy, almost in tears.

"If Miss Morris means that Burke's greatest efforts were not made in Parliament,--that his
speech to the electors of Bristol, for instance, and his opening address on the trial of Warren
Hastings, were, upon the whole, superior to--"

"I didn't mean anything at all," said Lucy.

"Lord Fawn is trying to help you, my dear," said Lady Fawn.

"I don't want to be helped," said Lucy. "I only mean that I thought Mr. Greystock's speech
as good as it could possibly be. There wasn't a word in it that didn't seem to me to be just
what it ought to be. I do think that they are ill-treating that poor Indian prince, and I am
very glad that somebody has had the courage to get up and say so."

No doubt it would have been better that Lucy should have held her tongue. Had she simply been
upholding against an opponent a political speaker whose speech she had read with pleasure,
she might have held her own in the argument against the whole Fawn family. She was a favourite
with them all, and even the Under-Secretary would not have been hard upon her. But there had
been more than this for poor Lucy to do. Her heart was so truly concerned in the matter, that
she could not refrain herself from resenting an attack on the man she loved. She had allowed
herself to be carried into superlatives, and had almost been uncourteous to Lord Fawn. "My
dear," said Lady Fawn, "we won't say anything more upon the subject." Lord Fawn took up a book.
Lady Fawn busied herself in her knitting. Lydia assumed a look of unhappiness, as though something
very sad had occurred. Augusta addressed a question to her brother in a tone which plainly
indicated a feeling on her part that her brother had been ill-used and was entitled to special
consideration. Lucy sat silent and still, and then left the room with a hurried step. Lydia
at once rose to follow her, but was stopped by her mother. "You had better leave her alone
just at present, my dear," said Lady Fawn.

"I did not know that Miss Morris was so particularly interested in Mr. Greystock," said Lord Fawn.

"She has known him since she was a child," said his mother.

About an hour afterwards Lady Fawn went up-stairs and found Lucy sitting all alone in the still
so-called school-room. She had no candle, and had made no pretence to do anything since she
had left the room down-stairs. In the interval family prayers had been read, and Lucy's absence
was unusual and contrary to rule. "Lucy, my dear, why are you sitting here?" said Lady Fawn.

"Because I am unhappy."

"What makes you unhappy, Lucy?"

"I don't know. I would rather you didn't ask me. I suppose I behaved badly down-stairs."

"My son would forgive you in a moment if you asked him."

"No;--certainly not. I can beg your pardon, Lady Fawn, but not his. Of course I had no right
to talk about speeches, and politics, and this prince in your drawing-room."

"Lucy, you astonish me."

"But it is so. Dear Lady Fawn, don't look like that. I know how good you are to me. I know
you let me do things which other governesses mayn't do;--and say things; but still I am a governess,
and I know I misbehaved--to you." Then Lucy burst into tears.

Lady Fawn, in whose bosom there was no stony corner or morsel of hard iron, was softened at
once. "My dear, you are more like another daughter to me than anything else."

"Dear Lady Fawn!"

"But it makes me unhappy when I see your mind engaged about Mr. Greystock. There is the truth,
Lucy. You should not think of Mr. Greystock. Mr. Greystock is a man who has his way to make
in the world, and could not marry you, even if, under other circumstances, he would wish to
do so. You know how frank I am with you, giving you credit for honest, sound good sense. To
me and to my girls, who know you as a lady, you are as dear a friend as though you were--were
anything you may please to think. Lucy Morris is to us our own dear, dear little friend Lucy.
But Mr. Greystock, who is a Member of Parliament, could not marry a governess."

"But I love him so dearly," said Lucy, getting up from her chair, "that his slightest word
is to me more than all the words of all the world beside! It is no use, Lady Fawn. I do love
him, and I don't mean to try to give it up!" Lady Fawn stood silent for a moment, and then
suggested that it would be better for them both to go to bed. During that minute she had been
unable to decide what she had better say or do in the present emergency.

CHAPTER VIII

The Conquering Hero Comes

The reader will perhaps remember that when Lizzie Eustace was told that her aunt was down-stairs
Frank Greystock was with her, and that he promised to return on the following day to hear the
result of the interview. Had Lady Linlithgow not come at that very moment Frank would probably
have asked his rich cousin to be his wife. She had told him that she was solitary and unhappy;
and after that what else could he have done but ask her to be his wife? The old countess, however,
arrived, and interrupted him. He went away abruptly, promising to come on the morrow;--but
on the morrow he never came. It was a Friday, and Lizzie remained at home for him the whole
morning. When four o'clock was passed she knew that he would be at the House. But still she
did not stir. And she contrived that Miss Macnulty should be absent the entire day. Miss Macnulty
was even made to go to the play by herself in the evening. But her absence was of no service.
Frank Greystock came not; and at eleven at night Lizzie swore to herself that should he ever
come again, he should come in vain. Nevertheless, through the whole of Saturday she expected
him with more or less of confidence, and on the Sunday morning she was still well-inclined
towards him. It might be that he would come on that day. She could understand that a man with
his hands so full of business, as were those of her cousin Frank, should find himself unable
to keep an appointment. Nor would there be fair ground for permanent anger with such a one,
even should he forget an appointment. But surely he would come on the Sunday! She had been
quite sure that the offer was about to be made when that odious old harridan had come in and
disturbed everything. Indeed, the offer had been all but made. She had felt the premonitory
flutter, had asked herself the important question,--and had answered it. She had told herself
that the thing would do. Frank was not the exact hero that her fancy had painted,--but he was
sufficiently heroic. Everybody said that he would work his way up to the top of the tree, and
become a rich man. At any rate she had resolved;--and then Lady Linlithgow had come in! Surely
he would come on the Sunday.

He did not come on the Sunday, but Lord Fawn did come. Immediately after morning church Lord
Fawn declared his intention of returning at once from Fawn Court to town. He was very silent
at breakfast, and his sisters surmised that he was still angry with poor Lucy. Lucy, too, was
unlike herself,--was silent, sad, and oppressed. Lady Fawn was serious, and almost solemn;--so
that there was little even of holy mirth at Fawn Court on that Sunday morning. The whole family,
however, went to church, and immediately on their return Lord Fawn expressed his intention
of returning to town. All the sisters felt that an injury had been done to them by Lucy. It
was only on Sundays that their dinner-table was graced by the male member of the family, and
now he was driven away. "I am sorry that you are going to desert us, Frederic," said Lady Fawn.
Lord Fawn muttered something as to absolute necessity, and went. The afternoon was very dreary
at Fawn Court. Nothing was said on the subject; but there was still the feeling that Lucy had
offended. At four o'clock on that Sunday afternoon Lord Fawn was closeted with Lady Eustace.

The "closeting" consisted simply in the fact that Miss Macnulty was not present. Lizzie fully
appreciated the pleasure, and utility, and general convenience of having a companion, but she
had no scruple whatever in obtaining absolute freedom for herself when she desired it. "My
dear," she would say, "the best friends in the world shouldn't always be together; should they?
Wouldn't you like to go to the Horticultural?" Then Miss Macnulty would go to the Horticultural,--or
else up into her own bed-room. When Lizzie was beginning to wax wrathful again because Frank
Greystock did not come, Lord Fawn made his appearance. "How kind this is," said Lizzie. "I
thought you were always at Richmond on Sundays."

"I have just come up from my mother's," said Lord Fawn, twiddling his hat. Then Lizzie, with
a pretty eagerness, asked after Lady Fawn and the girls, and her dear little friend Lucy Morris.
Lizzie could be very prettily eager when she pleased. She leaned forward her face as she asked
her questions, and threw back her loose lustrous lock of hair, with her long lithe fingers
covered with diamonds,--the diamonds, these, which Sir Florian had really given her, or which
she had procured from Mr. Benjamin in the clever manner described in the opening chapter. "They
are, all quite well, thank you," said Lord Fawn. "I believe Miss Morris is quite well, though
she was a little out of sorts last night."

"She is not ill, I hope," said Lizzie, bringing the lustrous lock forward again.

"In her temper, I mean," said Lord Fawn.

"Indeed! I hope Miss Lucy is not forgetting herself. That would be very sad, after the great
kindness she has received." Lord Fawn said that it would be very sad, and then put his hat
down upon the floor. It came upon Lizzie at that moment, as by a flash of lightning,--by an
electric message delivered to her intellect by that movement of the hat,--that she might be
sure of Lord Fawn if she chose to take him. On Friday she might have been sure of Frank,--only
that Lady Linlithgow came in the way. But now she did not feel at all sure of Frank. Lord Fawn
was at any rate a peer. She had heard that he was a poor peer,--but a peer, she thought, can't
be altogether poor. And though he was a stupid owl,--she did not hesitate to acknowledge to
herself that he was as stupid as an owl,--he had a position. He was one of the Government,
and his wife would, no doubt, be able to go anywhere. It was becoming essential to her that
she should marry. Even though her husband should give up the diamonds, she would not in such
case incur the disgrace of surrendering them herself. She would have kept them till she had
ceased to be a Eustace. Frank had certainly meant it on that Thursday afternoon;--but surely
he would have been in Mount Street before this if he had not changed his mind. We all know
that a bird in the hand is worth two in the bush. "I have been at Fawn Court once or twice,"
said Lizzie, with her sweetest grace, "and I always think it a model of real family happiness."

"I hope you may be there very often," said Lord Fawn.

"Ah, I have no right to intrude myself often on your mother, Lord Fawn."

There could hardly be a better opening than this for him had he chosen to accept it. But it
was not thus that he had arranged it,--for he had made his arrangements. "There would be no
feeling of that kind, I am sure," he said. And then he was silent. How was he to deploy himself
on the ground before him so as to make the strategy which he had prepared answer the occasion
of the day? "Lady Eustace," he said, "I don't know what your views of life may be."

"I have a child, you know, to bring up."

"Ah, yes;--that gives a great interest, of course."

"He will inherit a very large fortune, Lord Fawn;--too large, I fear, to be of service to a
youth of one-and-twenty; and I must endeavour to fit him for the possession of it. That is,--and
always must be, the chief object of my existence." Then she felt that she had said too much.
He was just the man who would be fool enough to believe her. "Not but what it is hard to do
it. A mother can of course devote herself to her child;--but when a portion of the devotion
must be given to the preservation of material interests there is less of tenderness in it.
Don't you think so?"

"No doubt," said Lord Fawn;--"no doubt." But he had not followed her, and was still thinking
of his own strategy. "It's a comfort, of course, to know that one's child is provided for."

"Oh, yes;--but they tell me the poor little dear will have forty thousand a year when he's
of age; and when I look at him in his little bed, and press him in my arms, and think of all
that money, I almost wish that his father had been a poor plain gentleman." Then the handkerchief
was put to her eyes, and Lord Fawn had a moment in which to collect himself.

"Ah!--I myself am a poor man;--for my rank I mean."

"A man with your position, Lord Fawn, and your talents and genius for business, can never be poor."

"My father's property was all Irish, you know."

"Was it indeed?"

"And he was an Irish peer, till Lord Melbourne gave him an English peerage."

"An Irish peer, was he?" Lizzie understood nothing of this, but presumed that an Irish peer
was a peer who had not sufficient money to live upon. Lord Fawn, however, was endeavouring
to describe his own history in as few words as possible.

"He was then made Lord Fawn of Richmond, in the peerage of the United Kingdom. Fawn Court,
you know, belonged to my mother's father before my mother's marriage. The property in Ireland
is still mine, but there's no place on it."

"Indeed!"

"There was a house, but my father allowed it to tumble down. It's in Tipperary;--not at all
a desirable country to live in."

"Oh, dear, no! Don't they murder the people?"

"It's about five thousand a year, and out of that my mother has half for her life."

"What an excellent family arrangement," said Lizzie. There was so long a pause made between
each statement that she was forced to make some reply.

"You see, for a peer, the fortune is very small indeed."

"But then you have a salary;--don't you?"

"At present I have;--but no one can tell how long that may last."

"I'm sure it's for everybody's good that it should go on for ever so many years," said Lizzie.

"Thank you," said Lord Fawn. "I'm afraid, however, there are a great many people who don't
think so. Your cousin Greystock would do anything on earth to turn us out."

"Luckily, my cousin Frank has not much power," said Lizzie. And in saying it she threw into
her tone, and into her countenance, a certain amount of contempt for Frank as a man and as
a politician, which was pleasant to Lord Fawn.

"Now," said he, "I have told you everything about myself which I was bound, as a man of honour,
to tell before--I--I--I--. In short you know what I mean."

"Oh, Lord Fawn!"

"I have told you everything. I owe no money, but I could not afford to marry a wife without
an income. I admire you more than any woman I ever saw. I love you with all my heart." He was
now standing upright before her, with the fingers of his right hand touching his left breast,
and there was something almost of dignity in his gesture and demeanour. "It may be that you
are determined never to marry again. I can only say that if you will trust yourself to me,--yourself
and your child,--I will do my duty truly by you both, and will make your happiness the chief
object of my existence." When she had listened to him thus far, of course she must accept him;
but he was by no means aware of that. She sat silent, with her hands folded on her breast,
looking down upon the ground; but he did not as yet attempt to seat himself by her. "Lady Eustace,"
he continued, "may I venture to entertain a hope?"

"May I not have an hour to think of it?" said Lizzie, just venturing to turn a glance of her
eye upon his face.

"Oh, certainly. I will call again whenever you may bid me."

Now she was silent for two or three minutes, during which he still stood over her. But he had
dropped his hand from his breast, and had stooped, and picked up his hat ready for his departure.
Was he to come again on Monday, or Tuesday, or Wednesday? Let her tell him that and he would
go. He doubtless reflected that Wednesday would suit him best, because there would be no House.
But Lizzie was too magnanimous for this. "Lord Fawn," she said, rising, "you have paid me the
greatest compliment that a man can pay a woman. Coming from you it is doubly precious; first,
because of your character; and secondly--"

"Why secondly?"

"Secondly, because I can love you." This was said in her lowest whisper, and then she moved
towards him gently, and almost laid her head upon his breast. Of course he put his arm round
her waist,--but it was first necessary that he should once more disembarrass himself of his
hat,--and then her head was upon his breast. "Dearest Lizzie!" he said.

"Dearest Frederic!" she murmured.

"I shall write to my mother to-night," he said.

"Do, do;--dear Frederic."

"And she will come to you at once, I am sure."

"I will receive her and love her as a mother," said Lizzie, with all her energy. Then he kissed
her again,--her forehead and her lips,--and took his leave, promising to be with her at any
rate on Wednesday.

"Lady Fawn!" she said to herself. The name did not sound so well as that of Lady Eustace. But
it is much to be a wife; and more to be a peeress.

CHAPTER IX

Showing What the Miss Fawns Said, and What Mrs. Hittaway Thought

In the way of duty Lord Fawn was a Hercules,--not, indeed, "climbing trees in the Hesperides,"
but achieving enterprises which, to other men, if not impossible, would have been so unpalatable
as to have been put aside as impracticable. On the Monday morning, after he was accepted by
Lady Eustace, he was with his mother at Fawn Court before he went down to the India Office.

He had at least been very honest in the description he had given of his own circumstances to
the lady whom he intended to marry. He had told her the exact truth; and though she, with all
her cleverness, had not been able to realise the facts when related to her so suddenly, still
enough had been said to make it quite clear that, when details of business should hereafter
be discussed in a less hurried manner, he would be able to say that he had explained all his
circumstances before he had made his offer. And he had been careful, too, as to her affairs.
He had ascertained that her late husband had certainly settled upon her for life an estate
worth four thousand a year. He knew, also, that eight thousand pounds had been left her, but
of that he took no account. It might be probable that she had spent it. If any of it were left,
it would be a godsend. Lord Fawn thought a great deal about money. Being a poor man, filling
a place fit only for rich men, he had been driven to think of money, and had become self-denying
and parsimonious,--perhaps we may say hungry and close-fisted. Such a condition of character
is the natural consequence of such a position. There is, probably, no man who becomes naturally
so hard in regard to money as he who is bound to live among rich men, who is not rich himself,
and who is yet honest. The weight of the work of life in these circumstances is so crushing,
requires such continued thought, and makes itself so continually felt, that the mind of the
sufferer is never free from the contamination of sixpences. Of such a one it is not fair to
judge as of other men with similar incomes. Lord Fawn had declared to his future bride that
he had half five thousand a year to spend,--or the half, rather, of such actual income as might
be got in from an estate presumed to give five thousand a year,--and it may be said that an
unmarried gentleman ought not to be poor with such an income. But Lord Fawn unfortunately was
a lord, unfortunately was a landlord, unfortunately was an Irish landlord. Let him be as careful
as he might with his sixpences, his pounds would fly from him, or, as might, perhaps, be better
said, could not be made to fly to him. He was very careful with his sixpences, and was always
thinking, not exactly how he might make two ends meet, but how to reconcile the strictest personal
economy with the proper bearing of an English nobleman.

Such a man almost naturally looks to marriage as an assistance in the dreary fight. It soon
becomes clear to him that he cannot marry without money, and he learns to think that heiresses
have been invented exactly to suit his case. He is conscious of having been subjected to hardship
by Fortune, and regards female wealth as his legitimate mode of escape from it. He has got
himself, his position, and, perhaps, his title to dispose of, and they are surely worth so
much per annum. As for giving anything away, that is out of the question. He has not been so
placed as to be able to give. But, being an honest man, he will, if possible, make a fair bargain.
Lord Fawn was certainly an honest man, and he had been endeavouring for the last six or seven
years to make a fair bargain. But then it is so hard to decide what is fair. Who is to tell
a Lord Fawn how much per annum he ought to regard himself as worth? He had, on one or two occasions,
asked a high price, but no previous bargain had been made. No doubt he had come down a little
in his demand in suggesting a matrimonial arrangement to a widow with a child, and with only
four thousand a year. Whether or no that income was hers in perpetuity, or only for life, he
had not positively known when he made his offer. The will made by Sir Florian Eustace did not
refer to the property at all. In the natural course of things, the widow would only have a
life-interest in the income. Why should Sir Florian make away, in perpetuity, with his family
property? Nevertheless, there had been a rumour abroad that Sir Florian had been very generous;
that the Scotch estate was to go to a second son in the event of there being a second son;--but
that otherwise it was to be at the widow's own disposal. No doubt, had Lord Fawn been persistent,
he might have found out the exact truth. He had, however, calculated that he could afford to
accept even the life-income. If more should come of it, so much the better for him. He might,
at any rate, so arrange the family matters, that his heir, should he have one, should not at
his death be called upon to pay something more than half the proceeds of the family property
to his mother,--as was now done by himself.

Lord Fawn breakfasted at Fawn Court on the Monday, and his mother sat at the table with him,
pouring out his tea. "Oh, Frederic," she said, "it is so important!"

"Just so;--very important indeed. I should like you to call and see her either to-day or to-morrow."

"That's of course."

"And you had better get her down here."

"I don't know that she'll come. Ought I to ask the little boy?"

"Certainly," said Lord Fawn, as he put a spoonful of egg into his mouth; "certainly."

"And Miss Macnulty?"

"No; I don't see that at all. I'm not going to marry Miss Macnulty. The child, of course, must
be one of us."

"And what is the income, Frederic?"

"Four thousand a year. Something more, nominally, but four thousand to spend."

"You are sure about that?"

"Quite sure."

"And for ever?"

"I believe so. Of that I am not sure."

"It makes a great difference, Frederic."

"A very great difference indeed. I think it is her own. But, at any rate, she is much younger
than I am, and there need be no settlement out of my property. That is the great thing. Don't
you think she's--nice?"

"She is very lovely."

"And clever?"

"Certainly very clever. I hope she is not self-willed, Frederic."

"If she is, we must try and balance it," said Lord Fawn, with a little smile. But, in truth,
he had thought nothing about any such quality as that to which his mother now referred. The
lady had an income. That was the first and most indispensable consideration. She was fairly
well-born, was a lady, and was beautiful. In doing Lord Fawn justice, we must allow that, in
all his attempted matrimonial speculations, some amount of feminine loveliness had been combined
with feminine wealth. He had for two years been a suitor of Violet Effingham, who was the acknowledged
beauty of the day,--of Violet Effingham who, at the present time, was the wife of Lord Chiltern;
and he had offered himself thrice to Madame Max Goesler, who was reputed to be as rich as she
was beautiful. In either case, the fortune would have been greater than that which he would
now win, and the money would certainly have been for ever. But in these attempts he had failed;
and Lord Fawn was not a man to think himself ill-used because he did not get the first good
thing for which he asked.

"I suppose I may tell the girls?" said Lady Fawn.

"Yes;--when I am gone. I must be off now, only I could not bear not to come and see you."

"It was so like you, Frederic."

"And you'll go to-day?"

"Yes; if you wish it,--certainly."

"Go up in the carriage, you know, and take one of the girls with you. I would not take more
than one. Augusta will be the best. You'll see Clara, I suppose." Clara was the married sister,
Mrs. Hittaway.

"If you wish it."

"She had better call too,--say on Thursday. It's quite as well that it should be known. I sha'n't
choose to have more delay than can be avoided. Well;--I believe that's all."

"I hope she'll be a good wife to you, Frederic."

"I don't see why she shouldn't. Good-bye, mother. Tell the girls I will see them next Saturday."
He didn't see why this woman he was about to marry should not be a good wife to him! And yet
he knew nothing about her, and had not taken the slightest trouble to make inquiry. That she
was pretty he could see; that she was clever he could understand; that she lived in Mount Street
was a fact; her parentage was known to him;--that she was the undoubted mistress of a large
income was beyond dispute. But, for aught he knew, she might be afflicted by every vice to
which a woman can be subject. In truth, she was afflicted by so many, that the addition of
all the others could hardly have made her worse than she was. She had never sacrificed her
beauty to a lover,--she had never sacrificed anything to anybody,--nor did she drink. It would
be difficult, perhaps, to say anything else in her favour; and yet Lord Fawn was quite content
to marry her, not having seen any reason why she should not make a good wife! Nor had Sir Florian
seen any reason;--but she had broken Sir Florian's heart.

When the girls heard the news, they were half frightened and half delighted. Lady Fawn and
her daughters lived very much out of the world. They also were poor rich people,--if such a
term may be used,--and did not go much into society. There was a butler kept at Fawn Court,
and a boy in buttons, and two gardeners, and a man to look after the cows, and a carriage and
horses, and a fat coachman. There was a cook and a scullery maid, and two lady's maids,--who
had to make the dresses,--and two housemaids and a dairymaid. There was a large old brick house
to be kept in order, and handsome grounds with old trees. There was, as we know, a governess,
and there were seven unmarried daughters. With such encumbrances, and an income altogether
not exceeding three thousand pounds per annum, Lady Fawn could not be rich. And yet who would
say that an old lady and her daughters could be poor with three thousand pounds a year to spend?
It may be taken almost as a rule by the unennobled ones of this country, that the sudden possession
of a title would at once raise the price of every article consumed twenty per cent. Mutton
that before cost ninepence would cost tenpence a pound, and the mouths to be fed would demand
more meat. The chest of tea would run out quicker. The labourer's work, which for the farmer
is ten hours a day, for the squire nine, is for the peer only eight. Miss Jones, when she becomes
Lady de Jongh, does not pay less than threepence apiece for each "my lady" with which her ear
is tickled. Even the baronet when he becomes a lord has to curtail his purchases, because of
increased price, unless he be very wide awake to the affairs of the world. Old Lady Fawn, who
would not on any account have owed a shilling which she could not pay, and who, in the midst
of her economies, was not close-fisted, knew very well what she could do and what she could
not. The old family carriage and the two lady's maids were there,--as necessaries of life;
but London society was not within her reach. It was, therefore, the case that they had not
heard very much about Lizzie Eustace. But they had heard something. "I hope she won't be too
fond of going out," said Amelia, the second girl.

"Or extravagant," said Georgina, the third.

"There was some story of her being terribly in debt when she married Sir Florian Eustace,"
said Diana, the fourth.

"Frederic will be sure to see to that," said Augusta, the eldest.

"She is very beautiful," said Lydia, the fifth.

"And clever," said Cecilia, the sixth.

"Beauty and cleverness won't make a good wife," said Amelia, who was the wise one of the family.

"Frederic will be sure to see that she doesn't go wrong," said Augusta, who was not wise.

Then Lucy Morris entered the room with Nina, the cadette of the family. "Oh, Nina, what do
you think?" said Lydia.

"My dear!" said Lady Fawn, putting up her hand and stopping further indiscreet speech.

"Oh, mamma, what is it?" asked the cadette.

"Surely Lucy may be told," said Lydia.

"Well, yes; Lucy may be told certainly. There can be no reason why Lucy should not know all
that concerns our family;--and the more so as she has been for many years intimate with the
lady. My dear, my son is going to be married to Lady Eustace."

"Lord Fawn going to marry Lizzie!" said Lucy Morris, in a tone which certainly did not express
unmingled satisfaction.

"Unless you forbid the banns," said Diana.

"Is there any reason why he should not?" said Lady Fawn.

"Oh, no;--only it seems so odd. I didn't know that they knew each other;--not well, that is.
And then--"

"Then what, my dear?"

"It seems odd;--that's all. It's all very nice, I dare say, and I'm sure I hope they will be
happy." Lady Fawn, however, was displeased, and did not speak to Lucy again before she started
with Augusta on the journey to London.

The carriage first stopped at the door of the married daughter in Warwick Square. Now, Mrs.
Hittaway, whose husband was chairman of the Board of Civil Appeals and who was very well known
at all Boards and among official men generally, heard much more about things that were going
on than did her mother. And, having been emancipated from maternal control for the last ten
or twelve years, she could express herself before her mother with more confidence than would
have become the other girls. "Mamma," she said, "you don't mean it!"

"I do mean it, Clara. Why should I not mean it?"

"She is the greatest vixen in all London."

"Oh, Clara!" said Augusta.

"And such a liar," said Mrs. Hittaway.

There came a look of pain across Lady Fawn's face, for Lady Fawn believed in her eldest daughter.
But yet she intended to fight her ground on a matter so important to her as was this. "There
is no word in the English language," she said, "which conveys to me so little of defined meaning
as that word vixen. If you can, tell me what you mean, Clara."

"Stop it, mamma."

"But why should I stop it,--even if I could?"

"You don't know her, mamma."

"She has visited at Fawn Court, more than once. She is a friend of Lucy's."

"If she is a friend of Lucy Morris, mamma, Lucy Morris shall never come here."

"But what has she done? I have never heard that she has behaved improperly. What does it all
mean? She goes out everywhere. I don't think she has had any lovers. Frederic would be the
last man in the world to throw himself away upon an ill-conditioned young woman."

"Frederic can see just as far as some other men, and not a bit farther. Of course she has an
income,--for her life."

"I believe it is her own altogether, Clara."

"She says so, I don't doubt. I believe she is the greatest liar about London. You find out
about her jewels before she married poor Sir Florian, and how much he had to pay for her; or
rather, I'll find out. If you want to know, mamma, you just ask her own aunt, Lady Linlithgow."

"We all know, my dear, that Lady Linlithgow quarrelled with her."

"It's my belief that she is over head and ears in debt again. But I'll learn. And when I have
found out, I shall not scruple to tell Frederic. Orlando will find out all about it." Orlando
was the Christian name of Mrs. Hittaway's husband. "Mr. Camperdown, I have no doubt, knows
all the ins and outs of her story. The long and the short of it is this, mamma, that I've heard
quite enough about Lady Eustace to feel certain that Frederic would live to repent it."

"But what can we do?" said Lady Fawn.

"Break it off," said Mrs. Hittaway.

Her daughter's violence of speech had a most depressing effect upon poor Lady Fawn. As has
been said, she did believe in Mrs. Hittaway. She knew that Mrs. Hittaway was conversant with
the things of the world, and heard tidings daily which never found their way down to Fawn Court.
And yet her son went about quite as much as did her daughter. If Lady Eustace was such a reprobate
as was now represented, why had not Lord Fawn heard the truth? And then she had already given
in her own adhesion, and had promised to call. "Do you mean that you won't go to her?" said
Lady Fawn.

"As Lady Eustace,--certainly not. If Frederic does marry her, of course I must know her. That's
a different thing. One has to make the best one can of a bad bargain. I don't doubt they'd
be separated before two years were over."

"Oh, dear, how dreadful!" exclaimed Augusta.

Lady Fawn, after much consideration, was of opinion that she must carry out her intention of
calling upon her son's intended bride in spite of all the evil things that had been said. Lord
Fawn had undertaken to send a message to Mount Street, informing the lady of the honour intended
for her. And in truth Lady Fawn was somewhat curious now to see the household of the woman
who might perhaps do her the irreparable injury of ruining the happiness of her only son. Perhaps
she might learn something by looking at the woman in her own drawing-room. At any rate she
would go. But Mrs. Hittaway's words had the effect of inducing her to leave Augusta where she
was. If there were contamination, why should Augusta be contaminated? Poor Augusta! She had
looked forward to the delight of embracing her future sister-in-law;--and would not have enjoyed
it the less, perhaps, because she had been told that the lady was false, profligate, and a
vixen. As, however, her position was that of a girl, she was bound to be obedient,--though
over thirty years old,--and she obeyed.

Lizzie was of course at home, and Miss Macnulty was of course visiting the Horticultural Gardens
or otherwise engaged. On such an occasion Lizzie would certainly be alone. She had taken great
pains with her dress, studying not so much her own appearance as the character of her visitor.
She was very anxious, at any rate for the present, to win golden opinions from Lady Fawn. She
was dressed richly, but very simply. Everything about her room betokened wealth; but she had
put away the French novels, and had placed a Bible on a little table, not quite hidden, behind
her own seat. The long lustrous lock was tucked up, but the diamonds were still upon her fingers.
She fully intended to make a conquest of her future mother-in-law and sister-in-law;--for the
note which had come up to her from the India Office had told her that Augusta would accompany
Lady Fawn. "Augusta is my favourite sister," said the enamoured lover, "and I hope that you
two will always be friends." Lizzie, when she had read this, had declared to herself that of
all the female oafs she had ever seen, Augusta Fawn was the greatest oaf. When she found that
Lady Fawn was alone, she did not betray herself, or ask for the beloved friend of the future.
"Dear, dear Lady Fawn!" she said, throwing herself into the arms and nestling herself against
the bosom of the old lady, "this makes my happiness perfect." Then she retreated a little,
still holding the hand she had grasped between her own, and looking up into the face of her
future mother-in-law. "When he asked me to be his wife, the first thing I thought of was whether
you would come to me at once." Her voice as she thus spoke was perfect. Her manner was almost
perfect. Perhaps there was a little too much of gesture, too much gliding motion, too violent
an appeal with the eyes, too close a pressure of the hand. No suspicion, however, of all this
would have touched Lady Fawn had she come to Mount Street without calling in Warwick Square
on the way. But those horrible words of her daughter were ringing in her ears, and she did
not know how to conduct herself.

"Of course I came as soon as he told me," she said.

"And you will be a mother to me?" demanded Lizzie.

Poor Lady Fawn! There was enough of maternity about her to have enabled her to undertake the
duty for a dozen sons' wives,--if the wives were women with whom she could feel sympathy. And
she could feel sympathy very easily; and was a woman not at all prone to inquire too curiously
as to the merits of a son's wife. But what was she to do after the caution she had received
from Mrs. Hittaway? How was she to promise maternal tenderness to a vixen and a liar? By nature
she was not a deceitful woman. "My dear," she said, "I hope you will make him a good wife."

It was not very encouraging, but Lizzie made the best of it. It was her desire to cheat Lady
Fawn into a good opinion, and she was not disappointed when no good opinion was expressed at
once. It is seldom that a bad person expects to be accounted good. It is the general desire
of such a one to conquer the existing evil impression; but it is generally presumed that the
evil impression is there. "Oh, Lady Fawn!" she said, "I will so strive to make him happy. What
is it that he likes? What would he wish me to do and to be? You know his noble nature, and
I must look to you for guidance."

Lady Fawn was embarrassed. She had now seated herself on the sofa, and Lizzie was close to
her, almost enveloped within her mantle. "My dear," said Lady Fawn, "if you will endeavour
to do your duty by him, I am sure he will do his by you."

"I know it. I am sure of it. And I will; I will. You will let me love you, and call you mother?"
A peculiar perfume came up from Lizzie's hair which Lady Fawn did not like. Her own girls,
perhaps, were not given to the use of much perfumery. She shifted her seat a little, and Lizzie
was compelled to sit upright, and without support. Hitherto Lady Fawn had said very little,
and Lizzie's part was one difficult to play. She had heard of that sermon read every Sunday
evening at Fawn Court, and she believed that Lady Fawn was peculiarly religious. "There," she
said, stretching out her hand backwards and clasping the book which lay upon the small table,--"there;
that shall be my guide. That will teach me how to do my duty by my noble husband."

Lady Fawn in some surprise took the book from Lizzie's hand, and found that it was the Bible.
"You certainly can't do better, my dear, than read your Bible," said Lady Fawn,--but there
was more of censure than of eulogy in the tone of her voice. She put the Bible down very quietly,
and asked Lady Eustace when it would suit her to come down to Fawn Court. Lady Fawn had promised
her son to give the invitation, and could not now, she thought, avoid giving it.

"Oh, I should like it so much!" said Lizzie. "Whenever it will suit you, I will be there at
a minute's notice." It was then arranged that she should be at Fawn Court on that day week,
and stay for a fortnight. "Of all things that which I most desire now," said Lizzie, "is to
know you and the dear girls,--and to be loved by you all."

Lady Eustace, as soon as she was alone in the room, stood in the middle of it, scowling,--for
she could scowl. "I'll not go near them," she said to herself,--"nasty, stupid, dull, puritanical
drones. If he don't like it, he may lump it. After all it's no such great catch." Then she
sat down to reflect whether it was or was not a catch. As soon as ever Lord Fawn had left her
after the engagement was made, she had begun to tell herself that he was a poor creature, and
that she had done wrong. "Only five thousand a year!" she said to herself;--for she had not
perfectly understood that little explanation which he had given respecting his income. "It's
nothing for a lord." And now again she murmured to herself, "It's my money he's after. He'll
find out that I know how to keep what I've got in my own hands." Now that Lady Fawn had been
cold to her, she thought still less of the proposed marriage. But there was this inducement
for her to go on with it. If they, the Fawn women, thought that they could break it off, she
would let them know that they had no such power.

"Well, mamma, you've seen her?" said Mrs. Hittaway.

"Yes, my dear; I've seen her. I had seen her two or three times before, you know."

"And you are still in love with her?"

"I never said that I was in love with her, Clara."

"And what has been fixed?"

"She is to come down to Fawn Court next week, and stay a fortnight with us. Then we shall find
out what she is."

"That will be best, mamma," said Augusta.

"Mind, mamma; you understand me. I shall tell Frederic plainly just what I think. Of course
he will be offended, and if the marriage goes on, the offence will remain,--till he finds out
the truth."

"I hope he'll find out no such truth," said Lady Fawn. She was, however, quite unable to say
a word in behalf of her future daughter-in-law. She said nothing as to that little scene with
the Bible, but she never forgot it.

CHAPTER X

Lizzie and Her Lover

During the remainder of that Monday and all the Tuesday, Lizzie's mind was, upon the whole,
averse to matrimony. She had told Miss Macnulty of her prospects, with some amount of exultation;
and the poor dependant, though she knew that she must be turned out into the street, had congratulated
her patroness. "The Vulturess will take you in again, when she knows you've nowhere else to
go," Lizzie had said,--displaying, indeed, some accurate discernment of her aunt's character.
But after Lady Fawn's visit she spoke of the marriage in a different tone. "Of course, my dear,
I shall have to look very close after the settlement."

"I suppose the lawyers will do that," said Miss Macnulty.

"Yes;--lawyers! That's all very well. I know what lawyers are. I'm not going to trust any lawyer
to give away my property. Of course we shall live at Portray, because his place is in Ireland;--and
nothing shall take me to Ireland. I told him that from the very first. But I don't mean to
give up my own income. I don't suppose he'll venture to suggest such a thing." And then again
she grumbled. "It's all very well being in the Cabinet--!"

"Is Lord Fawn in the Cabinet?" asked Miss Macnulty, who in such matters was not altogether
ignorant.

"Of course he is," said Lizzie, with an angry gesture. It may seem unjust to accuse her of
being stupidly unacquainted with circumstances, and a liar at the same time; but she was both.
She said that Lord Fawn was in the Cabinet because she had heard some one speak of him as not
being a Cabinet Minister, and in so speaking appear to slight his political position. Lizzie
did not know how much her companion knew, and Miss Macnulty did not comprehend the depth of
the ignorance of her patroness. Thus the lies which Lizzie told were amazing to Miss Macnulty.
To say that Lord Fawn was in the Cabinet, when all the world knew that he was an Under-Secretary!
What good could a woman get from an assertion so plainly, so manifestly false? But Lizzie knew
nothing of Under-Secretaries. Lord Fawn was a lord, and even commoners were in the Cabinet.
"Of course he is," said Lizzie; "but I sha'n't have my drawing-room made a Cabinet. They sha'n't
come here." And then again on the Tuesday evening she displayed her independence. "As for those
women down at Richmond, I don't mean to be overrun by them, I can tell you. I said I would
go there, and of course I shall keep my word."

"I think you had better go," said Miss Macnulty.

"Of course, I shall go. I don't want anybody to tell me where I'm to go, my dear, and where
I'm not. But it'll be about the first and the last visit. And as for bringing those dowdy girls
out in London, it's the last thing I shall think of doing. Indeed, I doubt whether they can
afford to dress themselves." As she went up to bed on the Tuesday evening, Miss Macnulty doubted
whether the match would go on. She never believed her friend's statements; but if spoken words
might be supposed to mean anything, Lady Eustace's words on that Tuesday betokened a strong
dislike to everything appertaining to the Fawn family. She had even ridiculed Lord Fawn himself,
declaring that he understood nothing about anything beyond his office.

And, in truth, Lizzie almost had made up her mind to break it off. All that she would gain
did not seem to weigh down with sufficient preponderance all that she would lose. Such were
her feelings on the Tuesday night. But on the Wednesday morning she received a note which threw
her back violently upon the Fawn interest. The note was as follows: "Messrs. Camperdown and
Son present their compliments to Lady Eustace. They have received instructions to proceed by
law for the recovery of the Eustace diamonds, now in Lady Eustace's hands, and will feel obliged
to Lady Eustace if she will communicate to them the name and address of her attorney. 62, New
Square, May 30, 186--." The effect of this note was to drive Lizzie back upon the Fawn interest.
She was frightened about the diamonds, and was, nevertheless, almost determined not to surrender
them. At any rate, in such a strait she would want assistance, either in keeping them or in
giving them up. The lawyer's letter afflicted her with a sense of weakness, and there was strength
in the Fawn connexion. As Lord Fawn was so poor, perhaps he would adhere to the jewels. She
knew that she could not fight Mr. Camperdown with no other assistance than what Messrs. Mowbray
and Mopus might give her, and therefore her heart softened towards her betrothed. "I suppose
Frederic will be here to-day," she said to Miss Macnulty, as they sat at breakfast together
about noon. Miss Macnulty nodded. "You can have a cab, you know, if you like to go anywhere."
Miss Macnulty said she thought she would go to the National Gallery. "And you can walk back,
you know," said Lizzie. "I can walk there and back too," said Miss Macnulty,--in regard to
whom it may be said that the last ounce would sometimes almost break the horse's back.

"Frederic" came and was received very graciously. Lizzie had placed Mr. Camperdown's note on
the little table behind her, beneath the Bible, so that she might put her hand upon it at once,
if she could make an opportunity of showing it to her future husband. "Frederic" sat himself
beside her, and the intercourse for awhile was such as might be looked for between two lovers
of whom one was a widow, and the other an Under-Secretary of State from the India Office. They
were loving, but discreetly amatory, talking chiefly of things material, each flattering the
other, and each hinting now and again at certain little circumstances of which a more accurate
knowledge seemed to be desirable. The one was conversant with things in general, but was slow;
the other was quick as a lizard in turning hither and thither, but knew almost nothing. When
she told Lord Fawn that the Ayrshire estate was "her own, to do what she liked with," she did
not know that he would certainly find out the truth from other sources before he married her.
Indeed, she was not quite sure herself whether the statement was true or false, though she
would not have made it so frequently had her idea of the truth been a fixed idea. It had all
been explained to her;--but there had been something about a second son, and there was no second
son. Perhaps she might have a second son yet,--a future little Lord Fawn, and he might inherit
it. In regard to honesty, the man was superior to the woman, because his purpose was declared,
and he told no lies;--but the one was as mercenary as the other. It was not love that had brought
Lord Fawn to Mount Street.

"What is the name of your place in Ireland?" she asked.

"There is no house, you know."

"But there was one, Frederic?"

"The town-land where the house used to be, is called Killeagent. The old demesne is called
Killaud."

"What pretty names! and--and--does it go a great many miles?" Lord Fawn explained that it did
run a good many miles up into the mountains. "How beautifully romantic!" said Lizzie. "But
the people live on the mountain and pay rent?"

Lord Fawn asked no such inept questions respecting the Ayrshire property, but he did inquire
who was Lizzie's solicitor. "Of course there will be things to be settled," he said, "and my
lawyer had better see yours. Mr. Camperdown is a--"

"Mr. Camperdown!" almost shrieked Lizzie. Lord Fawn then explained, with some amazement, that
Mr. Camperdown was his lawyer. As far as his belief went, there was not a more respectable
gentleman in the profession. Then he inquired whether Lizzie had any objection to Mr. Camperdown.
"Mr. Camperdown was Sir Florian's lawyer," said Lizzie.

"That will make it all the easier, I should think," said Lord Fawn.

"I don't know how that may be," said Lizzie, trying to bring her mind to work upon the subject
steadily. "Mr. Camperdown has been very uncourteous to me;--I must say that; and, as I think,
unfair. He wishes to rob me now of a thing that is quite my own."

"What sort of a thing?" asked Lord Fawn slowly.

"A very valuable thing. I'll tell you all about it, Frederic. Of course I'll tell you everything
now. I never could keep back anything from one that I loved. It's not my nature. There; you
might as well read that note." Then she put her hand back and brought Mr. Camperdown's letter
from under the Bible. Lord Fawn read it very attentively, and as he read it there came upon
him a great doubt. What sort of woman was this to whom he had engaged himself because she was
possessed of an income? That Mr. Camperdown should be in the wrong in such a matter was an
idea which never occurred to Lord Fawn. There is no form of belief stronger than that which
the ordinary English gentleman has in the discretion and honesty of his own family lawyer.
What his lawyer tells him to do, he does. What his lawyer tells him to sign, he signs. He buys
and sells in obedience to the same direction, and feels perfectly comfortable in the possession
of a guide who is responsible and all but divine. "What diamonds are they?" asked Lord Fawn
in a very low voice.

"They are my own,--altogether my own. Sir Florian gave them to me. When he put them into my
hands, he said that they were to be my own for ever and ever. 'There,' said he,--'those are
yours to do what you choose with them.' After that they oughtn't to ask me to give them back,--ought
they? If you had been married before, and your wife had given you a keepsake,--to keep for
ever and ever, would you give it up to a lawyer? You would not like it;--would you, Frederic?"
She had put her hand on his, and was looking up into his face as she asked the question. Again,
perhaps, the acting was a little overdone; but there were the tears in her eyes, and the tone
of her voice was perfect.

"Mr. Camperdown calls them Eustace diamonds,--family diamonds," said Lord Fawn. "What do they
consist of? What are they worth?"

"I'll show them to you," said Lizzie, jumping up and hurrying out of the room. Lord Fawn, when
he was alone, rubbed his hands over his eyes and thought about it all. It would be a very harsh
measure, on the part of the Eustace family and of Mr. Camperdown, to demand from her the surrender
of any trinket which her late husband might have given her in the manner she had described.
But it was, to his thinking, most improbable that the Eustace people or the lawyer should be
harsh to a widow bearing the Eustace name. The Eustaces were by disposition lavish, and old
Mr. Camperdown was not one who would be strict in claiming little things for rich clients.
And yet here was his letter, threatening the widow of the late baronet with legal proceedings
for the recovery of jewels which had been given by Sir Florian himself to his wife as a keepsake!
Perhaps Sir Florian had made some mistake, and had caused to be set in a ring or brooch for
his bride some jewel which he had thought to be his own, but which had, in truth, been an heirloom.
If so, the jewel should, of course, be surrendered,--or replaced by one of equal value. He
was making out some such solution, when Lizzie returned with the morocco case in her hand.
"It was the manner in which he gave it to me," said Lizzie, as she opened the clasp, "which
makes its value to me."

Lord Fawn knew nothing about jewels, but even he knew that if the circle of stones which he
saw, with a Maltese cross appended to it, was constituted of real diamonds, the thing must
be of great value. And it occurred to him at once that such a necklace is not given by a husband
even to a bride in the manner described by Lizzie. A ring, or brooch, or perhaps a bracelet,
a lover or a loving lord may bring in his pocket. But such an ornament as this on which Lord
Fawn was now looking, is given in another sort of way. He felt sure that it was so, even though
he was entirely ignorant of the value of the stones. "Do you know what it is worth?" he asked.

Lizzie hesitated a moment, and then remembered that "Frederic," in his present position in
regard to herself, might be glad to assist her in maintaining the possession of a substantial
property. "I think they say its value is about--ten thousand pounds," she replied.

"Ten--thousand--pounds!" Lord Fawn riveted his eyes upon them.

"That's what I am told--by a jeweller."

"By what jeweller?"

"A man had to come and see them,--about some repairs,--or something of that kind. Poor Sir
Florian wished it. And he said so."

"What was the man's name?"

"I forget his name," said Lizzie, who was not quite sure whether her acquaintance with Mr.
Benjamin would be considered respectable.

"Ten thousand pounds! You don't keep them in the house;--do you?"

"I have an iron case up-stairs for them;--ever so heavy."

"And did Sir Florian give you the iron case?"

Lizzie hesitated for a moment. "Yes," said she. "That is,--no. But he ordered it to be made;
and then it came,--after he was--dead."

"He knew their value, then?"

"Oh, dear, yes. Though he never named any sum. He told me, however, that they were very--very
valuable."

Lord Fawn did not immediately recognise the falseness of every word that the woman said to
him, because he was slow and could not think and hear at the same time. But he was at once
involved in a painful maze of doubt and almost of dismay. An action for the recovery of jewels
brought against the lady whom he was engaged to marry, on behalf of the family of her late
husband, would not suit him at all. To have his hands quite clean, to be above all evil report,
to be respectable, as it were, all round, was Lord Fawn's special ambition. He was a poor man,
and a greedy man, but he would have abandoned his official salary at a moment's notice, rather
than there should have fallen on him a breath of public opinion hinting that it ought to be
abandoned. He was especially timid, and lived in a perpetual fear lest the newspapers should
say something hard of him. In that matter of the Sawab he had been very wretched, because Frank
Greystock had accused him of being an administrator of tyranny. He would have liked his wife
to have ten thousand pounds' worth of diamonds very well; but he would rather go without a
wife for ever,--and without a wife's fortune,--than marry a woman subject to an action for
claiming diamonds not her own. "I think," said he, at last, "that if you were to put them into
Mr. Camperdown's hands--"

"Into Mr. Camperdown's hands!"

"And then let the matter be settled by arbitration--"

"Arbitration? That means going to law?"

"No, dearest,--that means not going to law. The diamonds would be entrusted to Mr. Camperdown.
And then some one would be appointed to decide whose property they were."

"They're my property," said Lizzie.

"But he says they belong to the family."

"He'll say anything," said Lizzie.

"My dearest girl, there can't be a more respectable man than Mr. Camperdown. You must do something
of the kind, you know."

"I sha'n't do anything of the kind," said Lizzie. "Sir Florian Eustace gave them to me, and
I shall keep them." She did not look at her lover as she spoke; but he looked at her, and did
not like the change which he saw on her countenance. And he did not like the circumstances
in which he found himself placed. "Why should Mr. Camperdown interfere?" continued Lizzie.
"If they don't belong to me, they belong to my son;--and who has so good a right to keep them
for him as I have? But they belong to me."

"They should not be kept in a private house like this at all, if they are worth all that money."

"If I were to let them go, Mr. Camperdown would get them. There's nothing he wouldn't do to
get them. Oh, Frederic, I hope you'll stand to me, and not see me injured. Of course I only
want them for my darling child."

Frederic's face had become very long, and he was much disturbed in his mind. He could only
suggest that he himself would go and see Mr. Camperdown, and ascertain what ought to be done.
To the last, he adhered to his assurance that Mr. Camperdown could do no evil;--till Lizzie,
in her wrath, asked him whether he believed Mr. Camperdown's word before hers. "I think he
would understand a matter of business better than you," said the prudent lover.

"He wants to rob me," said Lizzie, "and I shall look to you to prevent it."

When Lord Fawn took his leave,--which he did not do till he had counselled her again and again
to leave the matter in Mr. Camperdown's hands,--the two were not in good accord together. It
was his fixed purpose, as he declared to her, to see Mr. Camperdown; and it was her fixed purpose,--so,
at least, she declared to him,--to keep the diamonds, in spite of Mr. Camperdown. "But, my
dear, if it's decided against you--" said Lord Fawn gravely.

"It can't be decided against me, if you stand by me as you ought to do."

"I can do nothing," said Lord Fawn, in a tremor. Then Lizzie looked at him,--and her look,
which was very eloquent, called him a poltroon as plain as a look could speak. Then they parted,
and the signs of affection between them were not satisfactory.

The door was hardly closed behind him before Lizzie began to declare to herself that he shouldn't
escape her. It was not yet twenty-four hours since she had been telling herself that she did
not like the engagement and would break it off; and now she was stamping her little feet, and
clenching her little hands, and swearing to herself by all her gods, that this wretched, timid
lordling should not get out of her net. She did, in truth, despise him because he would not
clutch the jewels. She looked upon him as mean and paltry because he was willing to submit
to Mr. Camperdown. But still she was prompted to demand all that could be demanded from her
engagement,--because she thought that she perceived a something in him which might produce
in him a desire to be relieved from it. No! he should not be relieved. He should marry her.
And she would keep the key of that iron box with the diamonds, and he should find what sort
of a noise she would make if he attempted to take it from her. She closed the morocco case,
ascended with it to her bed-room, locked it up in the iron safe, deposited the little patent
key in its usual place round her neck, and then seated herself at her desk, and wrote letters
to her various friends, making known to them her engagement. Hitherto she had told no one but
Miss Macnulty,--and, in her doubts, had gone so far as to desire Miss Macnulty not to mention
it. Now she was resolved to blazon forth her engagement before all the world.

The first "friend" to whom she wrote was Lady Linlithgow. The reader shall see two or three
of her letters, and that to the countess shall be the first.

   MY DEAR AUNT,

   When you came to see me the other day, I cannot say that
   you were very kind to me, and I don't suppose you care
   very much what becomes of me. But I think it right to
   let you know that I am going to be married. I am engaged
   to Lord Fawn, who, as you know, is a peer, and a member
   of Her Majesty's Government, and a nobleman of great
   influence. I do not suppose that even you can say anything
   against such an alliance.

   I am, your affectionate niece,

   ELI. EUSTACE.

Then she wrote to Mrs. Eustace, the wife of the Bishop of Bobsborough. Mrs. Eustace had been
very kind to her in the first days of her widowhood, and had fully recognised her as the widow
of the head of her husband's family. Lizzie had liked none of the Bobsborough people. They
were, according to her ideas, slow, respectable, and dull. But they had not found much open
fault with her, and she was aware that it was for her interest to remain on good terms with
them. Her letter, therefore, to Mrs. Eustace was somewhat less acrid than that written to her
aunt Linlithgow.

   MY DEAR MRS. EUSTACE,

   I hope you will be glad to hear from me, and will not be
   sorry to hear my news. I am going to be married again. Of
   course I am not about to take a step which is in every way
   so very important without thinking about it a great deal.
   But I am sure it will be better for my darling little
   Florian in every way; and as for myself, I have felt for
   the last two years how unfitted I have been to manage
   everything myself. I have therefore accepted an offer
   made to me by Lord Fawn, who is, as you know, a peer
   of Parliament, and a most distinguished member of Her
   Majesty's Government; and he is, too, a nobleman of very
   great influence in every respect, and has a property in
   Ireland, extending over ever so many miles, and running up
   into the mountains. His mansion there is called Killmage,
   but I am not sure that I remember the name quite rightly.
   I hope I may see you there some day, and the dear bishop.
   I look forward with delight to doing something to make
   those dear Irish happier. The idea of rambling up into our
   own mountains charms me, for nothing suits my disposition
   so well as that kind of solitude.

   Of course Lord Fawn is not so rich a man as Sir Florian,
   but I have never looked to riches for my happiness. Not
   but what Lord Fawn has a good income from his Irish
   estates; and then, of course, he is paid for doing Her
   Majesty's Government;--so there is no fear that he will
   have to live upon my jointure, which, of course, would not
   be right. Pray tell the dear bishop and dear Margaretta
   all this, with my love. You will be happy, I know, to hear
   that my little Flo is quite well. He is already so fond of
   his new papa! [Lizzie's turn for lying was exemplified in
   this last statement, for, as it happened, Lord Fawn had
   never yet seen the child.]

   Believe me to be always your most affectionate niece,

   ELI. EUSTACE.

There were two other letters,--one to her uncle, the dean, and the other to her cousin Frank.
There was great doubt in her mind as to the expediency of writing to Frank Greystock; but at
last she decided that she would do it. The letter to the dean need not be given in full, as
it was very similar to that written to the bishop's wife. The same mention was made of her
intended husband's peerage, and the same allusion to Her Majesty's Government,--a phrase which
she had heard from Lord Fawn himself. She spoke of the Irish property, but in terms less glowing
than she had used in writing to the lady, and ended by asking for her uncle's congratulation--and
blessing. Her letter to Frank was as follows, and, doubtless, as she wrote it, there was present
to her mind a remembrance of the fact that he himself might have offered to her, and have had
her if he would.

   MY DEAR COUSIN,

   As I would rather that you should hear my news from myself
   than from any one else, I write to tell you that I am
   going to be married to Lord Fawn. Of course I know that
   there are certain matters as to which you and Lord Fawn do
   not agree,--in politics, I mean; but still I do not doubt
   but you will think that he is quite able to take care of
   your poor little cousin. It was only settled a day or
   two since, but it has been coming on ever so long. You
   understand all about that;--don't you? Of course you
   must come to my wedding, and be very good to me,--a
   kind of brother, you know; for we have always been
   friends;--haven't we? And if the dean doesn't come up to
   town, you must give me away. And you must come and see me
   ever so often; for I have a sort of feeling that I have
   no one else belonging to me that I can call really my
   own, except you. And you must be great friends with Lord
   Fawn, and must give up saying that he doesn't do his work
   properly. Of course he does everything better than anybody
   else could possibly do it,--except Cousin Frank.

   I am going down next week to Richmond. Lady Fawn has
   insisted on my staying there for a fortnight. Oh, dear,
   what shall I do all the time? You must positively come
   down and see me,--and see somebody else too! Only, you
   naughty coz! you mustn't break a poor girl's heart.

   Your affectionate cousin,

   ELI. EUSTACE.

Somebody, in speaking on Lady Eustace's behalf, and making the best of her virtues, had declared
that she did not have lovers. Hitherto that had been true of her;--but her mind had not the
less dwelt on the delight of a lover. She still thought of a possible Corsair who would be
willing to give up all but his vices for her love, and for whose sake she would be willing
to share even them. It was but a dream, but nevertheless it pervaded her fancy constantly.
Lord Fawn,--peer of Parliament, and member of Her Majesty's Government, as he was,--could not
have been such a lover to her. Might it not be possible that there should exist something of
romance between her and her cousin Frank? She was the last woman in the world to run away with
a man, or to endanger her position by a serious indiscretion; but there might, perhaps, be
a something between her and her cousin,--a liaison quite correct in its facts, a secret understanding,
if nothing more,--a mutual sympathy, which should be chiefly shown in the abuse of all their
friends,--and in this she could indulge her passion for romance and poetry.

CHAPTER XI

Lord Fawn at His Office

The news was soon all about London,--as Lizzie had intended. She had made a sudden resolve
that Lord Fawn should not escape her, and she had gone to work after the fashion we have seen.
Frank Greystock had told John Eustace, and John Eustace had told Mr. Camperdown before Lord
Fawn himself, in the slow prosecution of his purpose, had consulted the lawyer about the necklace.
"God bless my soul;--Lord Fawn!" the old lawyer had said when the news was communicated to
him. "Well,--yes;--he wants money. I don't envy him; that's all. We shall get the diamonds
now, John. Lord Fawn isn't the man to let his wife keep what doesn't belong to her." Then,
after a day or two, Lord Fawn had himself gone to Mr. Camperdown's chambers. "I believe I am
to congratulate you, my lord," said the lawyer. "I'm told you are going to marry--; well, I
mustn't really say another of my clients, but the widow of one of them. Lady Eustace is a very
beautiful woman, and she has a very pretty income too. She has the whole of the Scotch property
for her life."

"It's only for her life, I suppose?" said Lord Fawn.

"Oh, no, no;--of course not. There's been some mistake on her part;--at least, so I've been
told. Women never understand. It's all as clear as daylight. Had there been a second son, the
second son would have had it. As it is, it goes with the rest of the property--just as it ought
to do, you know. Four thousand a year isn't so bad, you know, considering that she isn't more
than a girl yet, and that she hadn't sixpence of her own. When the admiral died, there wasn't
sixpence, Lord Fawn."

"So I have heard."

"Not sixpence. It's all Eustace money. She had six or eight thousand pounds, or something like
that, besides. She's as lovely a young widow as I ever saw,--and very clever."

"Yes;--she is clever."

"By-the-bye, Lord Fawn, as you have done me the honour of calling,--there's a stupid mistake
about some family diamonds."

"It is in respect to them that I've come," said Lord Fawn. Then Mr. Camperdown, in his easy,
off-hand way, imputing no blame to the lady in the hearing of her future husband, and declaring
his opinion that she was doubtless unaware of its value, explained the matter of the necklace.
Lord Fawn listened, but said very little. He especially did not say that Lady Eustace had had
the stones valued. "They're real, I suppose?" he asked. Mr. Camperdown assured him that no
diamonds more real had ever come from Golconda, or passed through Mr. Garnett's hands. "They
are as well known as any family diamonds in England," said Mr. Camperdown. "She has got into
bad hands,"--continued Mr. Camperdown. "Mowbray and Mopus;--horrible people; sharks, that make
one blush for one's profession; and I was really afraid there would have been trouble. But,
of course, it'll be all right now;--and if she'll only come to me, tell her I'll do everything
I can to make things straight and comfortable for her. If she likes to have another lawyer,
of course, that's all right. Only make her understand who Mowbray and Mopus are. It's quite
out of the question, Lord Fawn, that your wife should have anything to do with Mowbray and
Mopus." Every word that Mr. Camperdown said was gospel to Lord Fawn.

And yet, as the reader will understand, Mr. Camperdown had by no means expressed his real opinion
in this interview. He had spoken of the widow in friendly terms,--declaring that she was simply
mistaken in her ideas as to the duration of her interest in the Scotch property, and mistaken
again about the diamonds;--whereas in truth he regarded her as a dishonest, lying, evil-minded
harpy. Had Lord Fawn consulted him simply as a client, and not have come to him an engaged
lover, he would have expressed his opinion quite frankly; but it is not the business of a lawyer
to tell his client evil things of the lady whom that client is engaged to marry. In regard
to the property he spoke the truth, and he spoke what he believed to be the truth when he said
that the whole thing would no doubt now be easily arranged. When Lord Fawn took his leave,
Mr. Camperdown again declared to himself that as regarded money the match was very well for
his lordship; but that, as regarded the woman, Lizzie was dear at the price. "Perhaps he doesn't
mind it," said Mr. Camperdown to himself, "but I wouldn't marry such a woman myself, though
she owned all Scotland."

There had been much in the interview to make Lord Fawn unhappy. In the first place, that golden
hope as to the perpetuity of the property was at an end. He had never believed that it was
so; but a man may hope without believing. And he was quite sure that Lizzie was bound to give
up the diamonds,--and would ultimately be made to give them up. Of any property in them, as
possibly accruing to himself, he had not thought much;--but he could not abstain from thinking
of the woman's grasp upon them. Mr. Camperdown's plain statement, which was gospel to him,
was directly at variance with Lizzie's story. Sir Florian certainly would not have given such
diamonds in such a way. Sir Florian would not have ordered a separate iron safe for them, with
a view that they might be secure in his wife's bed-room. And then she had had them valued,
and manifestly was always thinking of her treasure. It was very well for a poor, careful peer
to be always thinking of his money, but Lord Fawn was well aware that a young woman such as
Lady Eustace should have her thoughts elsewhere. As he sat signing letters at the India Board,
relieving himself when he was left alone between each batch by standing up with his back to
the fire-place, his mind was full of all this. He could not unravel truth quickly, but he could
grasp it when it came to him. She was certainly greedy, false, and dishonest. And,--worse than
all this,--she had dared to tell him to his face that he was a poor creature because he would
not support her in her greed, and falsehoods, and dishonesty! Nevertheless, he was engaged
to marry her! Then he thought of one Violet Effingham whom he had loved, and then came over
him some suspicion of a fear that he himself was hard and selfish. And yet what was such a
one as he to do? It was of course necessary for the maintenance of the very constitution of
his country that there should be future Lord Fawns. There could be no future Lord Fawns unless
he married;--and how could he marry without money? "A peasant can marry whom he pleases," said
Lord Fawn, pressing his hand to his brow, and dropping one flap of his coat, as he thought
of his own high and perilous destiny, standing with his back to the fire-place, while a huge
pile of letters lay there before him waiting to be signed.

It was a Saturday evening, and as there was no House there was nothing to hurry him away from
the office. He was the occupier for the time of a large, well-furnished official room, looking
out into St. James's Park, and as he glanced round it he told himself that his own happiness
must be there, and not in the domesticity of a quiet home. The House of Lords, out of which
nobody could turn him, and official life,--as long as he could hold to it,--must be all in
all to him. He had engaged himself to this woman, and he must--marry her. He did not think
that he could now see any way of avoiding that event. Her income would supply the needs of
her home, and then there might probably be a continuation of Lord Fawns. The world might have
done better for him,--had he been able to find favour in Violet Effingham's sight. He was a
man capable of love,--and very capable of constancy to a woman true to him. Then he wiped away
a tear as he sat down to sign the huge batch of letters. As he read some special letter in
which instructions were conveyed as to the insufficiency of the Sawab's claims, he thought
of Frank Greystock's attack upon him, and of Frank Greystock's cousin. There had been a time
in which he had feared that the two cousins would become man and wife. At this moment he uttered
a malediction against the member for Bobsborough, which might perhaps have been spared had
the member been now willing to take the lady off his hands. Then the door was opened, and the
messenger told him that Mrs. Hittaway was in the waiting-room. Mrs. Hittaway was, of course,
at once made welcome to the Under-Secretary's own apartment.

Mrs. Hittaway was a strong-minded woman,--the strongest-minded probably of the Fawn family,--but
she had now come upon a task which taxed all her strength to the utmost. She had told her mother
that she would tell "Frederic" what she thought about his proposed bride, and she had now come
to carry out her threat. She had asked her brother to come and dine with her, but he had declined.
His engagements hardly admitted of his dining with his relatives. She had called upon him at
the rooms he occupied in Victoria Street,--but of course she had not found him. She could not
very well go to his club;--so now she had hunted him down at his office. From the very commencement
of the interview Mrs. Hittaway was strong-minded. She began the subject of the marriage, and
did so without a word of congratulation. "Dear Frederic," she said, "you know that we have
all got to look up to you."

"Well, Clara,--what does that mean?"

"It means this,--that you must bear with me, if I am more anxious as to your future career
than another sister might be."

"Now I know you are going to say something unpleasant."

"Yes, I am, Frederic. I have heard so many bad things about Lady Eustace!"

The Under-Secretary sat silent for awhile in his great arm-chair. "What sort of evil things
do you mean, Clara?" he asked at last. "Evil things are said of a great many people,--as you
know. I am sure you would not wish to repeat slanders."

Mrs. Hittaway was not to be silenced after this fashion. "Not slanders, certainly, Frederic.
But when I hear that you intend to raise this lady to the rank and position of your wife, then
of course the truth or falsehood of these reports becomes a matter of great moment to us all.
Don't you think you had better see Mr. Camperdown?"

"I have seen him."

"And what does he say?"

"What should he say? Lady Eustace has, I believe, made some mistake about the condition of
her property, and people who have heard it have been good-natured enough to say that the error
has been wilful. That is what I call slander, Clara."

"And have you heard about her jewels?" Mrs. Hittaway was alluding here to the report which
had reached her as to Lizzie's debt to Harter and Benjamin when she married Sir Florian; but
Lord Fawn of course thought of the diamond necklace.

"Yes;" said he, "I have heard all about them. Who told you?"

"I have known it ever so long. Sir Florian never got over it." Lord Fawn was again in the dark,
but he did not choose to commit himself by asking further questions. "And then her treatment
of Lady Linlithgow, who was her only friend before she married, was something quite unnatural.
Ask the dean's people what they think of her. I believe even they would tell you."

"Frank Greystock desired to marry her himself."

"Yes,--for her money, perhaps;--because he has not got a farthing in the world. Dear Frederic,
I only wish to put you on your guard. Of course this is very unpleasant, and I shouldn't do
it if I didn't think it my duty. I believe she is artful and very false. She certainly deceived
Sir Florian Eustace about her debts;--and he never held up his head after he found out what
she was. If she has told you falsehoods, of course you can break it off. Dear Frederic, I hope
you won't be angry with me."

"Is that all?" he asked.

"Yes;--that is all."

"I'll bear it in mind," he said. "Of course it isn't very pleasant."

"No;--I know it is not pleasant," said Mrs. Hittaway, rising, and taking her departure with
an offer of affectionate sisterly greeting, which was not accepted with cordiality.

It was very unpleasant. That very morning Lord Fawn had received letters from the Dean and
the Bishop of Bobsborough congratulating him on his intended marriage,--both those worthy dignitaries
of the Church having thought it expedient to verify Lizzie's statements. Lord Fawn was, therefore,
well aware that Lady Eustace had published the engagement. It was known to everybody, and could
not be broken off without public scandal.

CHAPTER XII

"I Only Thought of It"

There was great perturbation down at Fawn Court. On the day fixed, Monday, June 5, Lizzie arrived.
Nothing further had been said by Lady Fawn to urge the invitation; but, in accordance with
the arrangement already made, Lady Eustace, with her child, her nurse, and her own maid, was
at Fawn Court by four o'clock. A very long letter had been received from Mrs. Hittaway that
morning,--the writing of which must have seriously interfered with the tranquillity of her
Sunday afternoon. Lord Fawn did not make his appearance at Richmond on the Saturday evening,--nor
was he seen on the Sunday. That Sunday was, we may presume, chiefly devoted to reflection.
He certainly did not call upon his future wife. His omission to do so no doubt increased Lizzie's
urgency in the matter of her visit to Richmond. Frank Greystock had written to congratulate
her. "Dear Frank," she had said in reply, "a woman situated as I am has so many things to think
of. Lord Fawn's position will be of service to my child. Mind you come and see me at Fawn Court.
I count so much on your friendship and assistance."

Of course she was expected at Richmond,--although throughout the morning Lady Fawn had entertained
almost a hope that she wouldn't come. "He was only lukewarm in defending her," Mrs. Hittaway
had said in her letter, "and I still think that there may be an escape." Not even a note had
come from Lord Fawn himself,--nor from Lady Eustace. Possibly something violent might have
been done, and Lady Eustace would not appear. But Lady Eustace did appear,--and, after a fashion,
was made welcome at Fawn Court.

The Fawn ladies were not good hypocrites. Lady Fawn had said almost nothing to her daughters
of her visit to Mount Street, but Augusta had heard the discussion in Mrs. Hittaway's drawing-room
as to the character of the future bride. The coming visit had been spoken of almost with awe,
and there was a general conviction in the dovecote that an evil thing had fallen upon them.
Consequently, their affection to the new-comer, though spoken in words, was not made evident
by signs and manners. Lizzie herself took care that the position in which she was received
should be sufficiently declared. "It seems so odd that I am to come among you as a sister,"
she said. The girls were forced to assent to the claim, but they assented coldly. "He has told
me to attach myself especially to you," she whispered to Augusta. The unfortunate chosen one,
who had but little strength of her own, accepted the position, and then, as the only means
of escaping the embraces of her newly-found sister, pleaded the violence of a headache. "My
mother!" said Lizzie to Lady Fawn. "Yes, my dear," said Lady Fawn. "One of the girls had perhaps
better go up and show you your room." "I am very much afraid about it," said Lady Fawn to her
daughter Amelia. Amelia replied only by shaking her head.

On the Tuesday morning there came a note from Lord Fawn to his lady-love. Of course the letter
was not shown, but Lizzie received it at the breakfast table, and read it with many little
smiles and signs of satisfaction. And then she gave out various little statements as having
been made in that letter. He says this, and he says that, and he is coming here, and going
there, and he will do one thing, and he won't do the other. We have often seen young ladies
crowing over their lovers' letters, and it was pleasant to see Lizzie crowing over hers. And
yet there was but very little in the letter. Lord Fawn told her that what with the House and
what with the Office, he could not get down to Richmond before Saturday; but that on Saturday
he would come. Then he signed himself "yours affectionately, Fawn." Lizzie did her crowing
very prettily. The outward show of it was there to perfection,--so that the Fawn girls really
believed that their brother had written an affectionate lover's letter. Inwardly, Lizzie swore
to herself, as she read the cold words with indignation, that the man should not escape her.

The days went by very tediously. On the Wednesday and the Friday Lady Eustace made an excuse
of going up to town, and insisted on taking the unfortunate Augusta with her. There was no
real reason for these journeys to London,--unless that glance which on each occasion was given
to the contents of the iron case was a real reason. The diamonds were safe, and Miss Macnulty
was enjoying herself. On the Friday Lizzie proposed to Augusta that they should jointly make
a raid upon the member of Her Majesty's Government at his office; but Augusta positively refused
to take such a step. "I know he would be angry," pleaded Augusta. "Psha! who cares for his
anger?" said Lizzie. But the visit was not made.

On the Saturday,--the Saturday which was to bring Lord Fawn down to dinner,--another most unexpected
visitor made his appearance. At about three o'clock Frank Greystock was at Fawn Court. Now
it was certainly understood that Mr. Greystock had been told not to come to Fawn Court as long
as Lucy Morris was there. "Dear Mr. Greystock, I'm sure you will take what I say as I mean
it," Lady Fawn had whispered to him. "You know how attached we all are to our dear little Lucy.
Perhaps you know--." There had been more of it; but the meaning of it all was undoubtedly this,--that
Frank was not to pay visits to Lucy Morris at Fawn Court. Now he had come to see his cousin
Lizzie Eustace.

On this occasion Lady Fawn, with Amelia and two of the other girls, were out in the carriage.
The unfortunate Augusta had been left at home with her bosom friend;--while Cecilia and Nina
were supposed to be talking French with Lucy Morris. They were all out in the grounds, sitting
upon the benches, and rambling among the shrubberies, when of a sudden Frank Greystock was
in the midst of them. Lizzie's expression of joy at seeing her cousin was almost as great as
though he had been in fact a brother. She ran up to him and grasped his hand, and hung on his
arm, and looked up into his face, and then burst into tears. But the tears were not violent
tears. There were just three sobs, and two bright eyes full of water, and a lace handkerchief,--and
then a smile. "Oh, Frank," she said, "it does make one think so of old times!" Augusta had
by this time been almost persuaded to believe in her,--though the belief by no means made the
poor young woman happy. Frank thought that his cousin looked very well, and said something
as to Lord Fawn being "the happiest fellow going." "I hope I shall make him happy," said Lizzie,
clasping her hands together.

Lucy meanwhile was standing in the circle with the others. It never occurred to her that it
was her duty to run away from the man she loved. She had shaken hands with him, and felt something
of affection in his pressure. She did believe that his visit was made entirely to his cousin,
and had no idea at the moment of disobeying Lady Fawn. During the last few days she had been
thrown very much with her old friend Lizzie, and had been treated by the future peeress with
many signs of almost sisterly affection. "Dear Lucy," Lizzie had said, "you can understand
me. These people,--oh, they are so good, but they can't understand me." Lucy had expressed
a hope that Lord Fawn understood her. "Oh, Lord Fawn,--well; yes; perhaps;--I don't know. It
so often happens that one's husband is the last person to understand one."

"If I thought so, I wouldn't marry him," said Lucy.

"Frank Greystock will understand you," said Lizzie. It was indeed true that Lucy did understand
something of her wealthy friend's character, and was almost ashamed of the friendship. With
Lizzie Greystock she had never sympathised, and Lizzie Eustace had always been distasteful
to her. She already felt that the less she should see of Lizzie Fawn the better she should like it.

Before an hour was over, Frank Greystock was walking round the shrubberies with Lucy,--and
was walking with Lucy alone. It was undoubtedly the fact that Lady Eustace had contrived that
it should be so. The unfitness of the thing recommended it to her. Frank could hardly marry
a wife without a shilling. Lucy would certainly not think at all of shillings. Frank,--as Lizzie
knew,--had been almost at her feet within the last fortnight, and might, in some possible emergency,
be there again. In the midst of such circumstances nothing could be better than that Frank
and Lucy should be thrown together. Lizzie regarded all this as romance. Poor Lady Fawn, had
she known it all, would have called it diabolical wickedness and inhuman cruelty.

"Well, Lucy;--what do you think of it?" Frank Greystock said to her.

"Think of what, Mr. Greystock?"

"You know what I mean;--this marriage?"

"How should I be able to think? I have never seen them together. I suppose Lord Fawn isn't
very rich. She is rich. And then she is very beautiful. Don't you think her very beautiful?"

"Sometimes exquisitely lovely."

"Everybody says so;--and I am sure it is the fact. Do you know;--but perhaps you'll think I
am envious."

"If I thought you envious of Lizzie, I should have to think you very foolish at the same time."

"I don't know what that means;"--she did know well enough what it meant;--"but sometimes to
me she is almost frightful to look at."

"In what way?"

"Oh, I can't tell you. She looks like a beautiful animal that you are afraid to caress for
fear it should bite you;--an animal that would be beautiful if its eyes were not so restless,
and its teeth so sharp and so white."

"How very odd."

"Why odd, Mr. Greystock?"

"Because I feel exactly in the same way about her. I am not in the least afraid that she'll
bite me; and as for caressing the animal,--that kind of caressing which you mean,--it seems
to me to be just what she's made for. But, I do feel sometimes, that she is like a cat."

"Something not quite so tame as a cat," said Lucy.

"Nevertheless she is very lovely,--and very clever. Sometimes I think her the most beautiful
woman I ever saw in the world."

"Do you, indeed?"

"She will be immensely run after as Lady Fawn. When she pleases she can make her own house
quite charming. I never knew a woman who could say pretty things to so many people at once."

"You are making her out to be a paragon of perfection, Mr. Greystock."

"And when you add to all the rest that she has four thousand a year, you must admit that Lord
Fawn is a lucky man."

"I have said nothing against it."

"Four thousand a year is a very great consideration, Lucy." Lucy for a while said nothing.
She was making up her mind that she would say nothing;--that she would make no reply indicative
of any feeling on her part. But she was not sufficiently strong to keep her resolution. "I
wonder, Mr. Greystock," she said, "that you did not attempt to win the great prize yourself.
Cousins do marry."

He had thought of attempting it, and at this moment he would not lie to her. "The cousinship
had nothing to do with it," he said.

"Perhaps you did think of it."

"I did, Lucy. Yes, I did. Thank God, I only thought of it." She could not refrain herself from
looking up into his face and clasping her hands together. A woman never so dearly loves a man
as when he confesses that he has been on the brink of a great crime,--but has refrained, and
has not committed it. "I did think of it. I am not telling you that she would have taken me.
I have no reason whatever for thinking so."

"I am sure she would," said Lucy, who did not in the least know what words she was uttering.

"It would have been simply for her money,--her money and her beauty. It would not have been
because I love her."

"Never--never ask a girl to marry you, unless you love her, Mr. Greystock."

"Then there is only one that I can ever ask," said he. There was nothing of course that she
could say to this. If he did not choose to go further, she was not bound to understand him.
But would he go further? She felt at the moment that an open declaration of his love to herself
would make her happy for ever, even though it should be accompanied by an assurance that he
could not marry her. If they only knew each other,--that it was so between them,--that, she
thought, would be enough for her. And as for him--if a woman could bear such a position, surely
he might bear it. "Do you know who that one is?" he asked.

"No," she said,--shaking her head.

"Lucy, is that true?"

"What does it matter?"

"Lucy;--look at me, Lucy," and he put his hand upon her arm.

"No,--no,--no!" she said.

"I love you so well, Lucy, that I never can love another. I have thought of many women, but
could never even think of one, as a woman to love, except you. I have sometimes fancied I could
marry for money and position,--to help myself on in the world by means of a wife,--but when
my mind has run away with me, to revel amidst ideas of feminine sweetness, you have always--always
been the heroine of the tale, as the mistress of the happy castle in the air."

"Have I?" she asked.

"Always,--always. As regards this,"--and he struck himself on the breast,--"no man was ever
more constant. Though I don't think much of myself as a man, I know a woman when I see her."
But he did not ask her to be his wife;--nor did he wait at Fawn Court till Lady Fawn had come
back with the carriage.

CHAPTER XIII

Showing What Frank Greystock Did

Frank Greystock escaped from the dovecote before Lady Fawn had returned. He had not made his
visit to Richmond with any purpose of seeing Lucy Morris, or of saying to her when he did see
her anything special,--of saying anything that should, or anything that should not, have been
said. He had gone there, in truth, simply because his cousin had asked him, and because it
was almost a duty on his part to see his cousin on the momentous occasion of this new engagement.
But he had declared to himself that old Lady Fawn was a fool, and that to see Lucy again would
be very pleasant. "See her;--of course I'll see her," he had said. "Why should I be prevented
from seeing her?" Now he had seen her, and as he returned by the train to London, he acknowledged
to himself that it was no longer in his power to promote his fortune by marriage. He had at
last said that to Lucy which made it impossible for him to offer his hand to any other woman.
He had not, in truth, asked her to be his wife; but he had told her that he loved her, and
could never love any other woman. He had asked for no answer to this assurance, and then he
had left her.

In the course of that afternoon he did question himself as to his conduct to this girl, and
subjected himself to some of the rigours of a cross-examination. He was not a man who could
think of a girl as the one human being whom he loved above all others, and yet look forward
with equanimity to the idea of doing her an injury. He could understand that a man unable to
marry should be reticent as to his feelings,--supposing him to have been weak enough to have
succumbed to a passion which could only mar his own prospects. He was frank enough in owning
to himself that he had been thus weak. The weakness had come upon himself early in life,--and
was there, an established fact. The girl was to him unlike any other girl;--or any man. There
was to him a sweetness in her companionship which he could not analyse. She was not beautiful.
She had none of the charms of fashion. He had never seen her well-dressed,--according to the
ideas of dress which he found to be prevailing in the world. She was a little thing, who, as
a man's wife, could attract no attention by figure, form, or outward manner,--one who had quietly
submitted herself to the position of a governess, and who did not seem to think that in doing
so she obtained less than her due. But yet he knew her to be better than all the rest. For
him, at any rate, she was better than all the rest. Her little hand was cool and sweet to him.
Sometimes when he was heated and hard at work, he would fancy how it would be with him if she
were by him, and would lay it on his brow. There was a sparkle in her eye that had to him more
of sympathy in it than could be conveyed by all the other eyes in the world. There was an expression
in her mouth when she smiled, which was more eloquent to him than any sound. There were a reality
and a truth about her which came home to him, and made themselves known to him as firm rocks
which could not be shaken. He had never declared to himself that deceit or hypocrisy in a woman
was especially abominable. As a rule he looked for it in women, and would say that some amount
of affectation was necessary to a woman's character. He knew that his cousin Lizzie was a little
liar,--that she was, as Lucy had said, a pretty animal that would turn and bite;--and yet he
liked his cousin Lizzie. He did not want women to be perfect,--so he would say. But Lucy Morris,
in his eyes, was perfect; and when he told her that she was ever the queen who reigned in those
castles in the air which he built,--as others build them, he told her no more than the truth.

He had fallen into these feelings and could not now avoid them, or be quit of them;--but he
could have been silent respecting them. He knew that in former days, down at Bobsborough, he
had not been altogether silent. When he had first seen her at Fawn Court he had not been altogether
silent. But he had been warned away from Fawn Court, and in that very warning there was conveyed,
as it were, an absolution from the effect of words hitherto spoken. Though he had called Lady
Fawn an old fool, he had known that it was so,--had, after a fashion, perceived her wisdom,--and
had regarded himself as a man free to decide, without disgrace, that he might abandon ideas
of ecstatic love and look out for a rich wife. Presuming himself to be reticent for the future
in reference to his darling Lucy, he might do as he pleased with himself. Thus there had come
a moment in which he had determined that he would ask his rich cousin to marry him. In that
little project he had been interrupted, and the reader knows what had come of it. Lord Fawn's
success had not in the least annoyed him. He had only half resolved in regard to his cousin.
She was very beautiful no doubt, and there was her income;--but he also knew that those teeth
would bite and that those claws would scratch. But Lord Fawn's success had given a turn to
his thoughts, and had made him think, for a moment, that if a man loved, he should be true
to his love. The reader also knows what had come of that,--how at last he had not been reticent.
He had not asked Lucy to be his wife; but he had said that which made it impossible that he
should marry any other woman without dishonour.

As he thought of what he had done himself, he tried to remember whether Lucy had said a word
expressive of affection for himself. She had in truth spoken very few words, and he could remember
almost every one of them. "Have I?"--she had asked, when he told her that she had ever been
the princess reigning in his castles. And there had been a joy in the question which she had
not attempted to conceal. She had hesitated not at all. She had not told him that she loved
him. But there had been something sweeter than such protestation in the question she had asked
him. "Is it indeed true," she had said, "that I have been placed there where all my joy and
all my glory lies?" It was not in her to tell a lie to him, even by a tone. She had intended
to say nothing of her love, but he knew that it had all been told. "Have I?"--he repeated the
words to himself a dozen times, and as he did so, he could hear her voice. Certainly there
never was a voice that brought home to the hearer so strong a sense of its own truth!

Why should he not at once make up his mind to marry her? He could do it. There was no doubt
of that. It was possible for him to alter the whole manner of his life, to give up his clubs,--to
give up even Parliament, if the need to do so was there,--and to live as a married man on the
earnings of his profession. There was no need why he should regard himself as a poor man. Two
things, no doubt, were against his regarding himself as a rich man. Ever since he had commenced
life in London he had been more or less in debt; and then, unfortunately, he had acquired a
seat in Parliament at a period of his career in which the dangers of such a position were greater
than the advantages. Nevertheless he could earn an income on which he and his wife, were he
to marry, could live in all comfort; and as to his debts, if he would set his shoulder to the
work they might be paid off in a twelvemonth. There was nothing in the prospect which would
frighten Lucy, though there might be a question whether he possessed the courage needed for
so violent a change.

He had chambers in the Temple; he lived in rooms which he hired from month to month in one
of the big hotels at the West End; and he dined at his club, or at the House, when he was not
dining with a friend. It was an expensive and a luxurious mode of life,--and one from the effects
of which a man is prone to drift very quickly into selfishness. He was by no means given to
drinking,--but he was already learning to like good wine. Small economies in reference to cab-hire,
gloves, umbrellas, and railway fares were unknown to him. Sixpences and shillings were things
with which, in his mind, it was grievous to have to burden the thoughts. The Greystocks had
all lived after that fashion. Even the dean himself was not free from the charge of extravagance.
All this Frank knew, and he did not hesitate to tell himself, that he must make a great change
if he meant to marry Lucy Morris. And he was wise enough to know that the change would become
more difficult every day that it was postponed. Hitherto the question had been an open question
with him. Could it now be an open question any longer? As a man of honour, was he not bound
to share his lot with Lucy Morris?

That evening,--that Saturday evening,--it so happened that he met John Eustace at a club to
which they both belonged, and they dined together. They had long known each other, and had
been thrown into closer intimacy by the marriage between Sir Florian and Lizzie. John Eustace
had never been fond of Lizzie, and now, in truth, liked her less than ever; but he did like
Lizzie's cousin, and felt that possibly Frank might be of use to him in the growing difficulty
of managing the heir's property and looking after the heir's interests. "You've let the widow
slip through your fingers," he said to Frank, as they sat together at the table.

"I told you Lord Fawn was to be the lucky man," said Frank.

"I know you did. I hadn't seen it. I can only say I wish it had been the other way."

"Why so? Fawn isn't a bad fellow."

"No;--not exactly a bad fellow. He isn't, you know, what I call a good fellow. In the first
place, he is marrying her altogether for her money."

"Which is just what you advised me to do."

"I thought you really liked her. And then Fawn will be always afraid of her,--and won't be
in the least afraid of us. We shall have to fight him, and he won't fight her. He's a cantankerous
fellow,--is Fawn,--when he's not afraid of his adversary."

"But why should there be any fighting?"

Eustace paused a minute, and rubbed his face and considered the matter before he answered.
"She is troublesome, you know," he said.

"What; Lizzie?"

"Yes;--and I begin to be afraid she'll give us as much as we know how to do. I was with Camperdown
to-day. I'm blessed if she hasn't begun to cut down a whole side of a forest at Portray. She
has no more right to touch the timber, except for repairs about the place, than you have."

"And if she lives for fifty years," asked Greystock, "is none to be cut?"

"Yes;--by consent. Of course the regular cutting for the year is done, year by year. That's
as regular as the rents, and the produce is sold by the acre. But she is marking the old oaks.
What the deuce can she want money for?"

"Fawn will put all that right."

"He'll have to do it," said Eustace. "Since she has been down with the old Lady Fawn, she has
written a note to Camperdown,--after leaving all his letters unanswered for the last twelvemonth,--to
tell him that Lord Fawn is to have nothing to do with her property, and that certain people,
called Mowbray and Mopus, are her lawyers. Camperdown is in an awful way about it."

"Lord Fawn will put it all right," said Frank.

"Camperdown is afraid that he won't. They've met twice since the engagement was made, and Camperdown
says that, at the last meeting, Fawn gave himself airs, or was, at any rate, unpleasant. There
were words about those diamonds."

"You don't mean to say that Lord Fawn wants to keep your brother's family jewels?"

"Camperdown didn't say that exactly;--but Fawn made no offer of giving them up. I wasn't there,
and only heard what Camperdown told me. Camperdown thinks he's afraid of her."

"I shouldn't wonder at that in the least," said Frank.

"I know there'll be trouble," continued Eustace, "and Fawn won't be able to help us through
it. She's a strong-willed, cunning, obstinate, clever little creature. Camperdown swears he'll
be too many for her, but I almost doubt it."

"And therefore you wish I were going to marry her?"

"Yes, I do. You might manage her. The money comes from the Eustace property, and I'd sooner
it should go to you than a half-hearted, numb-fingered, cold-blooded Whig, like Fawn."

"I don't like cunning women," said Frank.

"As bargains go, it wouldn't be a bad one," said Eustace. "She's very young, has a noble jointure,
and is as handsome as she can stand. It's too good a thing for Fawn;--too good for any Whig."

When Eustace left him, Greystock lit his cigar and walked with it in his mouth from Pall Mall
to the Temple. He often worked there at night when he was not bound to be in the House, or
when the House was not sitting,--and he was now intent on mastering the mysteries of some much-complicated
legal case which had been confided to him, in order that he might present it to a jury enveloped
in increased mystery. But, as he went, he thought rather of matrimony than of law;--and he
thought especially of matrimony as it was about to affect Lord Fawn. Could a man be justified
in marrying for money, or have rational ground for expecting that he might make himself happy
by doing so? He kept muttering to himself as he went, the Quaker's advice to the old farmer,
"Doan't thou marry for munny, but goa where munny is!" But he muttered it as condemning the
advice rather than accepting it.

He could look out and see two altogether different kinds of life before him, both of which
had their allurements. There was the Belgravia-cum-Pimlico life, the scene of which might extend
itself to South Kensington, enveloping the parks and coming round over Park Lane, and through
Grosvenor Square and Berkeley Square back to Piccadilly. Within this he might live with lords
and countesses and rich folk generally, going out to the very best dinner-parties, avoiding
stupid people, having everything the world could give, except a wife and family and home of
his own. All this he could achieve by the work which would certainly fall in his way, and by
means of that position in the world which he had already attained by his wits. And the wife,
with the family and house of his own, might be forthcoming, should it ever come in his way
to form an attachment with a wealthy woman. He knew how dangerous were the charms of such a
life as this to a man growing old among the flesh-pots, without any one to depend upon him.
He had seen what becomes of the man who is always dining out at sixty. But he might avoid that.
"Doan't thou marry for munny, but goa where munny is." And then there was that other outlook,
the scene of which was laid somewhere north of Oxford Street, and the glory of which consisted
in Lucy's smile, and Lucy's hand, and Lucy's kiss, as he returned home weary from his work.

There are many men, and some women, who pass their lives without knowing what it is to be or
to have been in love. They not improbably marry,--the men do, at least,--and make good average
husbands. Their wives are useful to them, and they learn to feel that a woman, being a wife,
is entitled to all the respect, protection, and honour which a man can give, or procure for
her. Such men, no doubt, often live honest lives, are good Christians, and depart hence with
hopes as justifiable as though they had loved as well as Romeo. But yet, as men, they have
lacked a something, the want of which has made them small and poor and dry. It has never been
felt by such a one that there would be triumph in giving away everything belonging to him for
one little whispered, yielding word, in which there should be acknowledgment that he had succeeded
in making himself master of a human heart. And there are other men,--very many men,--who have
felt this love, and have resisted it, feeling it to be unfit that Love should be Lord of all.
Frank Greystock had told himself, a score of times, that it would be unbecoming in him to allow
a passion to obtain such mastery of him as to interfere with his ambition. Could it be right
that he who, as a young man, had already done so much, who might possibly have before him so
high and great a career, should miss that, because he could not resist a feeling which a little
chit of a girl had created in his bosom,--a girl without money, without position, without even
beauty; a girl as to whom, were he to marry her, the world would say, "Oh, heaven!--there has
Frank Greystock gone and married a little governess out of old Lady Fawn's nursery!" And yet
he loved her with all his heart, and to-day he had told her of his love. What should he do next?

The complicated legal case received neither much ravelling nor unravelling from his brains
that night; but before he left his chambers he wrote the following letter:--

   Midnight, Saturday,
   All among my books and papers,
   2, Bolt Court, Middle Temple.

   DEAR, DEAR LUCY,

   I told you to-day that you had ever been the Queen who
   reigned in those palaces which I have built in Spain.
   You did not make me much of an answer; but such as it
   was,--only just one muttered doubtful-sounding word,--it
   has made me hope that I may be justified in asking you to
   share with me a home which will not be palatial. If I am
   wrong--? But no;--I will not think I am wrong, or that I
   can be wrong. No sound coming from you is really doubtful.
   You are truth itself, and the muttered word would have
   been other than it was, if you had not--! may I say,--had
   you not already learned to love me?

   You will feel, perhaps, that I ought to have said all this
   to you then, and that a letter in such a matter is but
   a poor substitute for a spoken assurance of affection.
   You shall have the whole truth. Though I have long loved
   you, I did not go down to Fawn Court with the purpose of
   declaring to you my love. What I said to you was God's
   truth; but it was spoken without thought at the moment. I
   have thought of it much since;--and now I write to ask you
   to be my wife. I have lived for the last year or two with
   this hope before me; and now-- Dear, dear Lucy, I will not
   write in too great confidence; but I will tell you that
   all my happiness is in your hands.

   If your answer is what I hope it may be, tell Lady Fawn at
   once. I shall immediately write to Bobsborough, as I hate
   secrets in such matters. And if it is to be so,--then I
   shall claim the privilege of going to Fawn Court as soon
   and as often as I please.

   Yours ever and always,--if you will have me,--

   F. G.

He sat for an hour at his desk, with his letter lying on the table, before he left his chambers,--looking
at it. If he should decide on posting it, then would that life in Belgravia-cum-Pimlico,--of
which in truth he was very fond,--be almost closed for him. The lords and countesses, and rich
county members, and leading politicians, who were delighted to welcome him, would not care
for his wife; nor could he very well take his wife among them. To live with them as a married
man, he must live as they lived;--and must have his own house in their precincts. Later in
life, he might possibly work up to this;--but for the present he must retire into dim domestic
security and the neighbourhood of Regent's Park. He sat looking at the letter, telling himself
that he was now, at this moment, deciding his own fate in life. And he again muttered the Quaker's
advice, "Doan't thou marry for munny, but goa where munny is!" It may be said, however, that
no man ever writes such a letter, and then omits to send it. He walked out of the Temple with
it in his hand, and dropped it into a pillar letter-box just outside the gate. As the envelope
slipped through his fingers, he felt that he had now bound himself to his fate.

CHAPTER XIV

"Doan't Thou Marry for Munny"

As that Saturday afternoon wore itself away, there was much excitement at Fawn Court. When
Lady Fawn returned with the carriage, she heard that Frank Greystock had been at Fawn Court;
and she heard also, from Augusta, that he had been rambling about the grounds alone with Lucy
Morris. At any exhibition of old ladies, held before a competent jury, Lady Fawn would have
taken a prize on the score of good humour. No mother of daughters was ever less addicted to
scold and to be fretful. But just now she was a little unhappy. Lizzie's visit had not been
a success, and she looked forward to her son's marriage with almost unmixed dismay. Mrs. Hittaway
had written daily, and in all Mrs. Hittaway's letters some addition was made to the evil things
already known. In her last letter Mrs. Hittaway had expressed her opinion that even yet "Frederic"
would escape. All this Lady Fawn had, of course, not told to her daughters generally. To the
eldest, Augusta, it was thought expedient to say nothing, because Augusta had been selected
as the companion of the, alas! too probable future Lady Fawn. But to Amelia something did leak
out, and it became apparent that the household was uneasy. Now,--as an evil added to this,--Frank
Greystock had been there in Lady Fawn's absence, walking about the grounds alone with Lucy
Morris. Lady Fawn could hardly restrain herself. "How could Lucy be so very wrong?" she said,
in the hearing both of Augusta and Amelia.

Lizzie Eustace did not hear this; but knowing very well that a governess should not receive
a lover in the absence of the lady of the house, she made her little speech about it. "Dear
Lady Fawn," she said, "my cousin Frank came to see me while you were out."

"So I hear," said Lady Fawn.

"Frank and I are more like brother and sister than anything else. I had so much to say to him;--so
much to ask him to do! I have no one else, you know, and I had especially told him to come here."

"Of course he was welcome to come."

"Only I was afraid you might think that there was some little lover's trick,--on dear Lucy's
part, you know."

"I never suspect anything of that kind," said Lady Fawn, bridling up. "Lucy Morris is above
any sort of trick. We don't have any tricks here, Lady Eustace." Lady Fawn herself might say
that Lucy was "wrong," but no one else in that house should even suggest evil of Lucy. Lizzie
retreated smiling. To have "put Lady Fawn's back up," as she called it, was to her an achievement
and a pleasure.

But the great excitement of the evening consisted in the expected coming of Lord Fawn. Of what
nature would be the meeting between Lord Fawn and his promised bride? Was there anything of
truth in the opinion expressed by Mrs. Hittaway that her brother was beginning to become tired
of his bargain? That Lady Fawn was tired of it herself,--that she disliked Lizzie, and was
afraid of her, and averse to the idea of regarding her as a daughter-in-law,--she did not now
attempt to hide from herself. But there was the engagement, known to all the world, and how
could its fulfilment now be avoided? The poor dear old woman began to repeat to herself the
first half of the Quaker's advice, "Doan't thou marry for munny."

Lord Fawn was to come down only in time for a late dinner. An ardent lover, one would have
thought, might have left his work somewhat earlier on a Saturday, so as to have enjoyed with
his sweetheart something of the sweetness of the Saturday summer afternoon;--but it was seven
before he reached Fawn Court, and the ladies were at that time in their rooms dressing. Lizzie
had affected to understand all his reasons for being so late, and had expressed herself as
perfectly satisfied. "He has more to do than any of the others," she had said to Augusta. "Indeed,
the whole of our vast Indian empire may be said to hang upon him, just at present;"--which
was not complimentary to Lord Fawn's chief, the Right Honourable Legge Wilson, who at the present
time represented the interests of India in the Cabinet. "He is terribly overworked, and it
is a shame;--but what can one do?"

"I think he likes work," Augusta had replied.

"But I don't like it,--not so much of it; and so I shall make him understand, my dear. But
I don't complain. As long as he tells me everything, I will never really complain." Perhaps
it might some day be as she desired; perhaps as a husband he would be thoroughly confidential
and communicative; perhaps when they two were one flesh he would tell her everything about
India;--but as yet he certainly had not told her much.

"How had they better meet?" Amelia asked her mother.

"Oh;--I don't know;--anyhow; just as they like. We can't arrange anything for her. If she had
chosen to dress herself early, she might have seen him as he came in; but it was impossible
to tell her so." No arrangement was therefore made, and as all the other ladies were in the
drawing-room before Lizzie came down, she had to give him his welcome in the midst of the family
circle. She did it very well. Perhaps she had thought of it, and made her arrangements. When
he came forward to greet her, she put her cheek up, just a little, so that he might see that
he was expected to kiss it;--but so little, that should he omit to do so, there might be no
visible awkwardness. It must be acknowledged on Lizzie's behalf, that she could always avoid
awkwardness. He did touch her cheek with his lips, blushing as he did so. She had her ungloved
hand in his, and, still holding him, returned into the circle. She said not a word; and what
he said was of no moment;--but they had met as lovers, and any of the family who had allowed
themselves to imagine that even yet the match might be broken, now unconsciously abandoned
that hope. "Was he always such a truant, Lady Fawn?"--Lizzie asked, when it seemed to her that
no one else would speak a word.

"I don't know that there is much difference," said Lady Fawn. "Here is dinner. Frederic, will
you give--Lady Eustace your arm?" Poor Lady Fawn! It often came to pass that she was awkward.

There were no less than ten females sitting round the board, at the bottom of which Lord Fawn
took his place. Lady Fawn had especially asked Lucy to come in to dinner, and with Lucy had
come the two younger girls. At Lord Fawn's right hand sat Lizzie, and Augusta at his left.
Lady Fawn had Amelia on one side and Lucy on the other. "So Mr. Greystock was here to-day,"
Lady Fawn whispered into Lucy's ear.

"Yes; he was here."

"Oh, Lucy!"

"I did not bid him come, Lady Fawn."

"I am sure of that, my dear;--but--but--" Then there was no more to be said on that subject
on that occasion.

During the whole of the dinner the conversation was kept up at the other end of the table by
Lizzie talking to Augusta across her lover. This was done in such a manner as to seem to include
Lord Fawn in every topic discussed. Parliament, India, the Sawab, Ireland, the special privileges
of the House of Lords, the ease of a bachelor life, and the delight of having at his elbow
just such a rural retreat as Fawn Court,--these were the fruitful themes of Lizzie's eloquence.
Augusta did her part at any rate with patience; and as for Lizzie herself, she worked with
that superhuman energy which women can so often display in making conversation under unfavourable
circumstances. The circumstances were unfavourable, for Lord Fawn himself would hardly open
his mouth; but Lizzie persevered, and the hour of dinner passed over without any show of ill-humour,
or of sullen silence. When the hour was over, Lord Fawn left the room with the ladies, and
was soon closeted with his mother, while the girls strolled out upon the lawn. Would Lizzie
play croquet? No; Lizzie would not play croquet. She thought it probable that she might catch
her lover and force him to walk with her through the shrubberies; but Lord Fawn was not seen
upon the lawn that evening, and Lizzie was forced to content herself with Augusta as a companion.
In the course of the evening, however, her lover did say a word to her in private. "Give me
ten minutes to-morrow between breakfast and church, Lizzie." Lizzie promised that she would
do so, smiling sweetly. Then there was a little music, and then Lord Fawn retired to his studies.

"What is he going to say to me?" Lizzie asked Augusta the next morning. There existed in her
bosom a sort of craving after confidential friendship,--but with it there existed something
that was altogether incompatible with confidence. She thoroughly despised Augusta Fawn, and
yet would have been willing,--in want of a better friend,--to press Augusta to her bosom, and
swear that there should ever be between them the tenderest friendship. She desired to be the
possessor of the outward shows of all those things of which the inward facts are valued by
the good and steadfast ones of the earth. She knew what were the aspirations,--what the ambition,
of an honest woman; and she knew, too, how rich were the probable rewards of such honesty.
True love, true friendship, true benevolence, true tenderness, were beautiful to her,--qualities
on which she could descant almost with eloquence; and therefore she was always shamming love
and friendship and benevolence and tenderness. She could tell you, with words most appropriate
to the subject, how horrible were all shams, and in saying so would be not altogether insincere;--yet
she knew that she herself was ever shamming, and she satisfied herself with shams. "What is
he going to say to me?" she asked Augusta, with her hands clasped, when she went up to put
her bonnet on after breakfast.

"To fix the day, I suppose," said Augusta.

"If I thought so, I would endeavour to please him. But it isn't that. I know his manner so
well! I am sure it is not that. Perhaps it is something about my boy. He will not wish to separate
a mother from her child."

"Oh dear, no," said Augusta. "I am sure Frederic will not want to do that."

"In anything else I will obey him," said Lizzie, again clasping her hands. "But I must not
keep him waiting,--must I? I fear my future lord is somewhat impatient." Now, if among Lord
Fawn's merits one merit was more conspicuous than another, it was that of patience. When Lizzie
descended he was waiting for her in the hall without a thought that he was being kept too long.
"Now, Frederic! I should have been with you two whole minutes since, if I had not had just
a word to say to Augusta. I do so love Augusta."

"She is a very good girl," said Lord Fawn.

"So true and genuine,--and so full of spirit. I will come on the other side because of my parasol
and the sun. There, that will do. We have an hour nearly before going to church;--haven't we?
I suppose you will go to church."

"I intend it," said Lord Fawn.

"It is so nice to go to church," said Lizzie. Since her widowhood had commenced, she had compromised
matters with the world. One Sunday she would go to church, and the next she would have a headache
and a French novel and stay in bed. But she was prepared for stricter conduct during at least
the first months of her newly-married life.

"My dear Lizzie," began Lord Fawn, "since I last saw you I have been twice with Mr. Camperdown."

"You are not going to talk about Mr. Camperdown to-day?"

"Well;--yes. I could not do so last night, and I shall be back in London either to-night or
before you are up to-morrow morning."

"I hate the very name of Mr. Camperdown," said Lizzie.

"I am sorry for that, because I am sure you could not find an honester lawyer to manage your
affairs for you. He does everything for me, and so he did for Sir Florian Eustace."

"That is just the reason why I employ some one else," she answered.

"Very well. I am not going to say a word about that. I may regret it, but I am, just at present,
the last person in the world to urge you upon that subject. What I want to say is this. You
must restore those diamonds."

"To whom shall I restore them?"

"To Mr. Garnett, the silversmith, if you please,--or to Mr. Camperdown;--or, if you like it
better, to your brother-in-law, Mr. John Eustace."

"And why am I to give up my own property?"

Lord Fawn paused for some seconds before he replied. "To satisfy my honour," he then said.
As she made him no immediate answer, he continued,--"It would not suit my views that my wife
should be seen wearing the jewels of the Eustace family."

"I don't want to wear them," said Lizzie.

"Then why should you desire to keep them?"

"Because they are my own. Because I do not choose to be put upon. Because I will not allow
such a cunning old snake as Mr. Camperdown to rob me of my property. They are my own, and you
should defend my right to them."

"Do you mean to say that you will not oblige me by doing what I ask you?"

"I will not be robbed of what is my own," said Lizzie.

"Then I must declare--" and now Lord Fawn spoke very slowly--"then I must declare that under
these circumstances, let the consequences be what they may, I must retreat from the enviable
position which your favour has given me." The words were cold and solemn, and were ill-spoken;
but they were deliberate, and had been indeed actually learned by heart.

"What do you mean?" said Lizzie, flashing round upon him.

"I mean what I say,--exactly. But perhaps it may be well that I should explain my motives more
clearly."

"I don't know anything about motives, and I don't care anything about motives. Do you mean
to tell me that you have come here to threaten me with deserting me?"

"You had better hear me."

"I don't choose to hear a word more after what you have said,--unless it be in the way of an
apology, or retracting your most injurious accusation."

"I have said nothing to retract," said Lord Fawn solemnly.

"Then I will not hear another word from you. I have friends, and you shall see them."

Lord Fawn, who had thought a great deal upon the subject, and had well understood that this
interview would be for him one of great difficulty, was very anxious to induce her to listen
to a few further words of explanation. "Dear Lizzie--" he began.

"I will not be addressed, sir, in that way by a man who is treating me as you are doing," she said.

"But I want you to understand me."

"Understand you! You understand nothing yourself that a man ought to understand. I wonder that
you have the courage to be so insolent. If you knew what you were doing, you would not have
the spirit to do it."

Her words did not quite come home to him, and much of her scorn was lost upon him. He was now
chiefly anxious to explain to her that though he must abide by the threat he had made, he was
quite willing to go on with his engagement if she would oblige him in the matter of the diamonds.
"It was necessary that I should explain to you that I could not allow that necklace to be brought
into my house."

"No one thought of taking it to your house."

"What were you to do with it, then?"

"Keep it in my own," said Lizzie stoutly. They were still walking together, and were now altogether
out of sight of the house. Lizzie in her excitement had forgotten church, had forgotten the
Fawn women,--had forgotten everything except the battle which it was necessary that she should
fight for herself. She did not mean to allow the marriage to be broken off,--but she meant
to retain the necklace. The manner in which Lord Fawn had demanded its restitution,--in which
there had been none of that mock tenderness by which she might have permitted herself to be
persuaded,--had made her, at any rate for the moment, as firm as steel on this point. It was
inconceivable to her that he should think himself at liberty to go back from his promise, because
she would not render up property which was in her possession, and which no one could prove
not to be legally her own! She walked on full of fierce courage,--despising him, but determined
that she would marry him.

"I am afraid we do not understand each other," he said at last.

"Certainly I do not understand you, sir."

"Will you allow my mother to speak to you on the subject?"

"No. If I told your mother to give up her diamonds, what would she say?"

"But they are not yours, Lady Eustace, unless you will submit that question to an arbitrator."

"I will submit nothing to anybody. You have no right to speak on such a subject till after
we are married."

"I must have it settled first, Lady Eustace."

"Then, Lord Fawn, you won't have it settled first. Or rather it is settled already. I shall
keep my own necklace, and Mr. Camperdown may do anything he pleases. As for you,--if you ill-treat
me, I shall know where to go to." They had now come out from the shrubbery upon the lawn, and
there was the carriage at the door, ready to take the elders of the family to church. Of course
in such a condition of affairs it would be understood that Lizzie was one of the elders. "I
shall not go to church now," she said, as she advanced across the lawn towards the hall door.
"You will be pleased, Lord Fawn, to let your mother know that I am detained. I do not suppose
that you will dare to tell her why." Then she sailed round at the back of the carriage and
entered the hall, in which several of the girls were standing. Among them was Augusta, waiting
to take her seat among the elders;--but Lizzie passed on through them all, without a word,
and marched up to her bed-room.

"Oh, Frederic, what is the matter?" asked Augusta, as soon as her brother entered the house.

"Never mind. Nothing is the matter. You had better go to church. Where is my mother?"

At this moment Lady Fawn appeared at the bottom of the stairs, having passed Lizzie as she
was coming down. Not a syllable had then been spoken, but Lady Fawn at once knew that much
was wrong. Her son went up to her and whispered a word in her ear. "Oh, certainly," she said,
desisting from the operation of pulling on her gloves. "Augusta, neither your brother nor I
will go to church."

"Nor--Lady Eustace?"

"It seems not," said Lady Fawn.

"Lady Eustace will not go to church," said Lord Fawn.

"And where is Lucy?" asked Lydia.

"She will not go to church either," said Lady Fawn. "I have just been with her."

"Nobody is going to church," said Nina. "All the same, I shall go by myself."

"Augusta, my dear, you and the girls had better go. You can take the carriage of course." But
Augusta and the girls chose to walk, and the carriage was sent round into the yard.

"There's a rumpus already between my lord and the young missus," said the coachman to the groom;--for
the coachman had seen the way in which Lady Eustace had returned to the house. And there certainly
was a rumpus. During the whole morning Lord Fawn was closeted with his mother, and then he
went away to London without saying a word to any one of the family. But he left this note for
Lady Eustace:--

   DEAREST LIZZIE,

   Think well of what I have said to you. It is not that I
   desire to break off our engagement; but that I cannot
   allow my wife to keep the diamonds which belong of right
   to her late husband's family. You may be sure that I
   should not be thus urgent had I not taken steps to
   ascertain that I am right in my judgment. In the meantime
   you had better consult my mother.

   Yours affectionately,

   FAWN.

CHAPTER XV

"I'll Give You a Hundred Guinea Brooch"

There had been another "affair" in the house that morning, though of a nature very different
to the "rumpus" which had occurred between Lord Fawn and Lady Eustace. Lady Fawn had been closeted
with Lucy, and had expressed her opinion of the impropriety of Frank Greystock's visit. "I
suppose he came to see his cousin," said Lady Fawn, anxious to begin with some apology for
such conduct.

"I cannot tell," said Lucy. "Perhaps he did. I think he said so. I think he cared more to see
me." Then Lady Fawn was obliged to express her opinion, and she did so, uttering many words
of wisdom. Frank Greystock, had he intended to sacrifice his prospects by a disinterested marriage,
would have spoken out before now. He was old enough to have made up his mind on such a subject,
and he had not spoken out. He did not mean marriage. That was quite evident to Lady Fawn;--and
her dear Lucy was revelling in hopes which would make her miserable. If Lucy could only have
known of the letter, which was already her own property though lying in the pillar letter-box
in Fleet Street, and which had not already been sent down and delivered simply because it was
Sunday morning! But she was very brave. "He does love me," she said. "He told me so."

"Oh, Lucy;--that is worse and worse. A man to tell you that he loves you, and yet not ask you
to be his wife!"

"I am contented," said Lucy. That assertion, however, could hardly have been true.

"Contented! And did you tell him that you returned his love?"

"He knew it without my telling him," said Lucy. It was so hard upon her that she should be
so interrogated while that letter was lying in the iron box!

"Dear Lucy, this must not be," said Lady Fawn. "You are preparing for yourself inexpressible
misery."

"I have done nothing wrong, Lady Fawn."

"No, my dear;--no. I do not say you have been wrong. But I think he is wrong,--so wrong! I
call it wicked. I do indeed. For your own sake you should endeavour to forget him."

"I will never forget him!" said Lucy. "To think of him is everything to me. He told me I was
his Queen, and he shall be my King. I will be loyal to him always." To poor Lady Fawn this
was very dreadful. The girl persisted in declaring her love for the man, and yet did not even
pretend to think that the man meant to marry her! And this, too, was Lucy Morris,--of whom
Lady Fawn was accustomed to say to her intimate friends that she had altogether ceased to look
upon her as a governess. "Just one of ourselves, Mrs. Winslow,--and almost as dear as one of
my own girls!" Thus, in the warmth of her heart, she had described Lucy to a neighbour within
the last week. Many more words of wisdom she spoke, and then she left poor Lucy in no mood
for church. Would she have been in a better mood for the morning service had she known of the
letter in the iron post?

Then Lady Fawn had put on her bonnet and gone down into the hall, and the "rumpus" had come.
After that, everybody in the house knew that all things were astray. When the girls came home
from church, their brother was gone. Half an hour before dinner Lady Fawn sent the note up
to Lizzie, with a message to say that they would dine at three,--it being Sunday. Lizzie sent
down word that as she was unwell, she would ask to have just a cup of tea and "something" sent
to her own room. If Lady Fawn would allow her, she would remain up-stairs with her child. She
always made use of her child when troubles came.

The afternoon was very sad and dreary. Lady Fawn had an interview with Lady Eustace, but Lizzie
altogether refused to listen to any advice on the subject of the necklace. "It is an affair,"
she said haughtily, "in which I must judge for myself,--or with the advice of my own particular
friends. Had Lord Fawn waited until we were married; then indeed--!"

"But that would have been too late," said Lady Fawn severely.

"He is, at any rate, premature now in laying his commands upon me," said Lizzie. Lady Fawn,
who was perhaps more anxious that the marriage should be broken off than that the jewels should
be restored, then withdrew; and as she left the room Lizzie clasped her boy to her bosom. "He,
at any rate, is left to me," she said. Lucy and the Fawn girls went to evening church, and
afterwards Lizzie came down among them when they were at tea. Before she went to bed Lizzie
declared her intention of returning to her own house in Mount Street on the following day.
To this Lady Fawn of course made no objection.

On the next morning there came an event which robbed Lizzie's departure of some of the importance
which might otherwise have been attached to it. The post-office, with that accuracy in the
performance of its duties for which it is conspicuous among all offices, caused Lucy's letter
to be delivered to her while the members of the family were sitting round the breakfast table.
Lizzie, indeed, was not there. She had expressed her intention of breakfasting in her own room,
and had requested that a conveyance might be ready to take her to the 11.30 train. Augusta
had been with her, asking whether anything could be done for her. "I care for nothing now,
except my child," Lizzie had replied. As the nurse and the lady's maid were both in the room,
Augusta, of course, could say nothing further. That occurred after prayers, and while the tea
was being made. When Augusta reached the breakfast-room, Lucy was cutting up the loaf of bread,
and at the same moment the old butler was placing a letter immediately under her eyes. She
saw the handwriting and recognised it, but yet she finished cutting the bread. "Lucy, do give
me that hunchy bit," said Nina.

"Hunchy is not in the dictionary," said Cecilia.

"I want it in my plate, and not in the dictionary," said Nina.

Lucy did as she was asked, but her hand trembled as she gave the hunch, and Lady Fawn saw that
her face was crimson. She took the letter and broke the envelope, and as she drew out the sheet
of paper, she looked up at Lady Fawn. The fate of her whole life was in her hands, and there
she was standing with all their eyes fixed upon her. She did not even know how to sit down,
but, still standing, she read the first words, and at the last, "Dear, dear Lucy,"--"Yours
ever and always, if you will have me, F. G." She did not want to read any more of it then.
She sat down slowly, put the precious paper back into its envelope, looked round upon them
all, and knew that she was crimson to the roots of her hair, blushing like a guilty thing.

"Lucy, my dear," said Lady Fawn,--and Lucy at once turned her face full upon her old friend,--"you
have got a letter that agitates you."

"Yes,--I have," she said.

"Go into the book-room. You can come back to breakfast when you have read it, you know." Thereupon
Lucy rose from her seat, and retired with her treasure into the book-room. But even when she
was there she could not at once read her letter. When the door was closed and she knew that
she was alone she looked at it, and then clasped it tight between her hands. She was almost
afraid to read it lest the letter itself should contradict the promise which the last words
of it had seemed to convey to her. She went up to the window and stood there gazing out upon
the gravel road, with her hand containing the letter pressed upon her heart. Lady Fawn had
told her that she was preparing for herself inexpressible misery;--and now there had come to
her joy so absolutely inexpressible! "A man to tell you that he loves you, and yet not ask
you to be his wife!" She repeated to herself Lady Fawn's words,--and then those other words,
"Yours ever and always, if you will have me!" Have him, indeed! She threw from her, at once,
as vain and wicked and false, all idea of coying her love. She would leap at his neck if he
were there, and tell him that for years he had been almost her god. And of course he knew it.
"If I will have him! Traitor!" she said to herself, smiling through her tears. Then she reflected
that after all it would be well that she should read the letter. There might be conditions;--though
what conditions could he propose with which she would not comply? However, she seated herself
in a corner of the room and did read the letter. As she read it, she hardly understood it all;--but
she understood what she wanted to understand. He asked her to share with him his home. He had
spoken to her that day without forethought;--but mustn't such speech be the truest and the
sweetest of all speeches? "And now I write to you to ask you to be my wife." Oh, how wrong
some people can be in their judgments! How wrong Lady Fawn had been in hers about Frank Greystock!
"For the last year or two I have lived with this hope before me." "And so have I," said Lucy.
"And so have I;--with that and no other." "Too great confidence! Traitor," she said again,
smiling and weeping, "yes, traitor; when of course you knew it." "Is his happiness in my hands?
Oh,--then he shall be happy." "Of course I will tell Lady Fawn at once;--instantly. Dear Lady
Fawn! But yet she has been so wrong. I suppose she will let him come here. But what does it
matter, now that I know it?" "Yours ever and always,--if you will have me.--F. G." "Traitor,
traitor, traitor!" Then she got up and walked about the room, not knowing what she did, holding
the letter now between her hands, and then pressing it to her lips.

She was still walking about the room when there came a low tap at the door, and Lady Fawn entered.
"There is nothing the matter, Lucy?" Lucy stood stock still, with her treasure still clasped,
smiling, almost laughing, while the tears ran down her cheeks. "Won't you eat your breakfast,
my dear?" said Lady Fawn.

"Oh, Lady Fawn--oh, Lady Fawn!" said Lucy, rushing into her friend's arms.

"What is it, Lucy? I think our little wise one has lost her wits."

"Oh, Lady Fawn, he has asked me!"

"Is it Mr. Greystock?"

"Yes;--Mr. Greystock. He has asked me. He has asked me to be his wife. I thought he loved me.
I hoped he did, at least. Oh dear, I did so hope it! And he does!"

"Has he proposed to you?"

"Yes, Lady Fawn. I told you what he said to me. And then he went and wrote this. Is he not
noble and good,--and so kind? You shall read it,--but you'll give it me back, Lady Fawn?"

"Certainly I'll give it you back. You don't think I'd rob you of your lover's letter?"

"Perhaps you might think it right."

"If it is really an offer of marriage--," said Lady Fawn very seriously.

"It couldn't be more of an offer if he had sat writing it for ever," said Lucy as she gave
up her letter with confidence. Lady Fawn read it with leisurely attention, and smiled as she
put the paper back into the envelope. "All the men in the world couldn't say it more plainly,"
said Lucy, nodding her head forward.

"I don't think they could," said Lady Fawn. "I never read anything plainer in my life. I wish
you joy with all my heart, Lucy. There is not a word to be said against him."

"Against him!" said Lucy, who thought that this was very insufficient praise.

"What I mean is, that when I objected to his coming here I was only afraid that he couldn't
afford,--or would think, you know, that in his position he couldn't afford to marry a wife
without a fortune."

"He may come now, Lady Fawn?"

"Well,--yes; I think so. I shall be glad just to say a word to him. Of course you are in my
hands, and I do love you so dearly, Lucy! I could not bear that anything but good should happen
to you."

"This is good," said Lucy.

"It won't be good, and Mr. Greystock won't think you good, if you don't come and eat your breakfast."
So Lucy was led back into the parlour, and sipped her tea and crunched her toast, while Lydia
came and stood over her.

"Of course it is from him?" whispered Lydia. Lucy again nodded her head while she was crunching
her toast.

The fact that Mr. Greystock had proposed in form to Lucy Morris was soon known to all the family,
and the news certainly did take away something from the importance which would otherwise have
been attached to Lizzie's departure. There was not the same awe of the ceremony, the same dread
of some scene, which, but for Frank Greystock's letter, would have existed. Of course, Lord
Fawn's future matrimonial prospects were to them all an affair of more moment than those of
Lucy; but Lord Fawn himself had gone, and had already quarrelled with the lady before he went.
There was at present nothing more to be done by them in regard to Lizzie, than just to get
rid of her. But Lucy's good fortune, so unexpected, and by her so frankly owned as the very
best fortune in the world that could have befallen her, gave an excitement to them all. There
could be no lessons that morning for Nina, and the usual studies of the family were altogether
interrupted. Lady Fawn purred, and congratulated, and gave good advice, and declared that any
other home for Lucy before her marriage would now be quite out of the question. "Of course
it wouldn't do for you to go even to Clara," said Lady Fawn,--who seemed to think that there
still might be some delay before Frank Greystock would be ready for his wife. "You know, my
dear, that he isn't rich;--not for a member of Parliament. I suppose he makes a good income,
but I have always heard that he was a little backward when he began. Of course, you know, nobody
need be in a hurry." Then Lucy began to think that if Frank should wish to postpone his marriage,--say
for three or four years,--she might even yet become a burthen on her friend. "But don't you
be frightened," continued Lady Fawn; "you shall never want a home as long as I have one to
give you. We shall soon find out what are Mr. Greystock's ideas; and unless he is very unreasonable
we'll make things fit."

Then there came a message to Lucy from Lady Eustace. "If you please, miss, Lady Eustace will
be glad to see you for a minute up in her room before she starts." So Lucy was torn away from
the thoughts of her own happiness, and taken up-stairs to Lady Eustace. "You have heard that
I am going?" said Lizzie.

"Yes;--I heard you were to go this morning."

"And you have heard why? I'm sure you will not deceive me, Lucy. Where am I to look for truth,
if not to an old, old friend like you?"

"Why should I deceive you, Lizzie?"

"Why, indeed? only that all people do. The world is so false, so material, so worldly! One
gives out one's heart and gets in return nothing but dust and ashes,--nothing but ashes and
dust. Oh, I have been so disappointed in Lady Fawn!"

"You know she is my dearest friend," said Lucy.

"Psha! I know that you have worked for her like a slave, and that she gives you but a bare
pittance."

"She has been more like a mother to me than anything else," said Lucy angrily.

"Because you have been tame. It does not suit me to be tame. It is not my plan to be tame.
Have you heard the cause of the disagreement between Lord Fawn and me?"

"Well,--no."

"Tell the truth, Lucy."

"How dare you tell me to tell the truth? Of course I tell the truth. I believe it is something
about some property which he wants you to give back to somebody; but I don't know any more."

"Yes, my dear husband, Sir Florian, who understood me,--whom I idolized,--who seemed to have
been made for me,--gave me a present. Lord Fawn is pleased to say that he does not approve
of my keeping any gift from my late lord. Considering that he intends to live upon the wealth
which Sir Florian was generous enough to bestow upon me, this does seem to be strange! Of course,
I resented such interference. Would not you have resented it?"

"I don't know," said Lucy, who thought that she could bring herself to comply with any request
made to her by Frank Greystock.

"Any woman who had a spark of spirit would resent it, and I have resented it. I have told Lord
Fawn that I will, on no account, part with the rich presents which my adored Florian showered
upon me in his generosity. It is not for their richness that I keep them, but because they
are, for his sake, so inexpressibly dear to me. If Lord Fawn chooses to be jealous of a necklace,
he must be jealous." Lucy, who had, in truth, heard but a small fragment of the story,--just
so much of it as Lydia had learned from the discreet Amelia, who herself had but a very hazy
idea of the facts,--did not quite know how much of the tale, as it was now told to her, might
be true and how much false. After a certain fashion she and Lizzie Eustace called themselves
friends. But she did not believe her friend to be honest, and was aware that in some matters
her friend would condescend--to fib. Lizzie's poetry, and romance, and high feelings, had never
had the ring of true soundness in Lucy's ears. But her imagination was not strong enough to
soar to the altitude of the lies which Lizzie was now telling. She did believe that the property
which Lizzie was called upon to restore was held to be objectionable by Lord Fawn simply because
it had reached Lizzie from the hands of her late husband. "What do you think of such conduct
as that?" asked Lady Eustace.

"Won't it do if you lock them up instead of wearing them?" asked Lucy.

"I have never dreamed of wearing them."

"I don't understand about such things," said Lucy, determined not to impute any blame to one
of the Fawn family.

"It is tyranny, sheer tyranny," continued the other, "and he will find that I am not the woman
to yield to it. No. For love I could give up everything;--but nothing from fear. He has told
me in so many words that he does not intend to go on with his engagement!"

"Has he indeed?"

"But I intend that he shall. If he thinks that I am going to be thrown over because he takes
ideas of that kind into his head, he's mistaken. He shall know that I'm not to be made a plaything
of like that. I'll tell you what you can do for me, Lucy."

"What can I do for you?"

"There is no one in the world I trust more thoroughly than I do you," said Lizzie,--"and hardly
any one that I love so well. Think how long we have known each other! And you may be sure of
this;--I always have been, and always will be, your friend with my cousin Frank."

"I don't want anything of that kind," said Lucy,--"and never did."

"Nobody has so much influence with Frank as I. Just do you write to me to-morrow, and the next
day,--and the day after,--a mere line, you know, to tell me how the land lies here."

"There would be nothing to tell."

"Yes, there will; ever so much. They will be talking about me every hour. If you'll be true
to me, Lucy, in this business, I'll make you the handsomest present you ever saw in your life.
I'll give you a hundred-guinea brooch;--I will, indeed. You shall have the money, and buy it
yourself."

"A what!" said Lucy.

"A hundred guineas to do what you please with!"

"You mean thing!" said Lucy. "I didn't think there was a woman so mean as that in the world.
I'm not surprised now at Lord Fawn. Pick up what I hear, and send it you in letters,--and then
be paid money for it!"

"Why not? It's all to do good."

"How can you have thought to ask me to do such a thing? How can you bring yourself to think
so badly of people? I'd sooner cut my hand off; and as for you, Lizzie--I think you are mean
and wicked to conceive such a thing. And now good-bye." So saying, she left the room, giving
her dear friend no time for further argument.

Lady Eustace got away that morning, not in time, indeed, for the 11.30 train, but at such an
hour as to make it unnecessary that she should appear at the early dinner. The saying of farewell
was very cold and ceremonious. Of course, there was no word as to any future visit,--no word
as to any future events whatever. They all shook hands with her, and special injunctions were
given to the coachman to drive her safely to the station. At this ceremony Lucy was not present.
Lydia had asked her to come down and say good-bye; but Lucy refused. "I saw her in her own
room," said Lucy.

"And was it all very affectionate?" Lydia asked.

"Well--no; it was not affectionate at all." This was all that Lucy said, and thus Lady Eustace
completed her visit to Fawn Court.

The letters were taken away for the post at eight o'clock in the evening, and before that time
it was necessary that Lucy should write to her lover. "Lady Fawn," she said in a whisper, "may
I tell him to come here?"

"Certainly, my dear. You had better tell him to call on me. Of course he'll see you, too, when
he comes."

"I think he'd want to see me," said Lucy, "and I'm sure I should want to see him!" Then she
wrote her answer to Frank's letter. She allowed herself an hour for the happy task; but though
the letter, when written, was short, the hour hardly sufficed for the writing of it.

"DEAR MR. GREYSTOCK;"--there was matter for her of great consideration before she could get
even so far as this; but, after biting her pen for ten minutes, during which she pictured to
herself how pleasant it would be to call him Frank when he should have told her to do so, and
had found, upon repeated whispered trials, that of all names it was the pleasantest to pronounce,
she decided upon refraining from writing it now--

   Lady Fawn has seen your letter to me,--the dearest letter
   that ever was written,--and she says that you may call
   upon her. But you mustn't go away without seeing me
   too.

Then there was great difficulty as to the words to be used by her for the actual rendering
herself up to him as his future wife. At last the somewhat too Spartan simplicity of her nature
prevailed, and the words were written, very plain and very short.

   I love you better than all the world, and I will be your
   wife. It shall be the happiness of my life to try to
   deserve you.

   I am, with all my heart,
   Most affectionately your own

   LUCY.

When it was written it did not content her. But the hour was over, and the letters must go.
"I suppose it'll do," she said to herself. "He'll know what it means." And so the letter was sent.

CHAPTER XVI

Certainly an Heirloom

The burden of his position was so heavy on Lord Fawn's mind that, on the Monday morning after
leaving Fawn Court, he was hardly as true to the affairs of India as he himself would have
wished. He was resolved to do what was right,--if only he could find out what would be the
right thing in his present difficulty. Not to break his word, not to be unjust, not to deviate
by a hair's breadth from that line of conduct which would be described as "honourable" in the
circle to which he belonged; not to give his political enemies an opportunity for calumny,--this
was all in all to him. The young widow was very lovely and very rich, and it would have suited
him well to marry her. It would still suit him well to do so, if she would make herself amenable
to reason and the laws. He had assured himself that he was very much in love with her, and
had already, in his imagination, received the distinguished heads of his party at Portray Castle.
But he would give all this up,--love, income, beauty, and castle,--without a doubt, rather
than find himself in the mess of having married a wife who had stolen a necklace, and who would
not make restitution. He might marry her, and insist on giving it up afterwards; but he foresaw
terrible difficulties in the way of such an arrangement. Lady Eustace was self-willed, and
had already told him that she did not intend to keep the jewels in his house,--but in her own!
What should he do, so that no human being,--not the most bigoted Tory that ever expressed scorn
for a Whig lord,--should be able to say that he had done wrong? He was engaged to the lady,
and could not simply change his mind and give no reason. He believed in Mr. Camperdown; but
he could hardly plead that belief, should he hereafter be accused of heartless misconduct.
For aught he knew, Lady Eustace might bring an action against him for breach of promise, and
obtain a verdict and damages, and annihilate him as an Under-Secretary. How should he keep
his hands quite clean?

Frank Greystock was, as far as he knew, Lizzie's nearest relative in London. The dean was her
uncle, but then the dean was down at Bobsborough. It might be necessary for him to go down
to Bobsborough;--but in the meantime he would see Frank Greystock. Greystock was as bitter
a Tory as any in England. Greystock was the very man who had attacked him, Lord Fawn, in the
House of Commons respecting the Sawab,--making the attack quite personal,--and that without
a shadow of a cause! Within the short straight grooves of Lord Fawn's intellect the remembrance
of this supposed wrong was always running up and down, renewing its own soreness. He regarded
Greystock as an enemy who would lose no opportunity of injuring him. In his weakness and littleness
he was quite unable to judge of other men by himself. He would not go a hair's breadth astray,
if he knew it; but because Greystock had, in debate, called him timid and tyrannical, he believed
that Greystock would stop short of nothing that might injure him. And yet he must appeal to
Greystock. He did appeal, and in answer to his appeal Frank came to him at the India House.
But Frank, before he saw Lord Fawn, had, as was fitting, been with his cousin.

Nothing was decided at this interview. Lord Fawn became more than ever convinced that the member
for Bobsborough was his determined enemy, and Frank was more convinced than ever that Lord
Fawn was an empty, stiff-necked, self-sufficient prig.

Greystock, of course, took his cousin's part. He was there to do so; and he himself really
did not know whether Lizzie was or was not entitled to the diamonds. The lie which she had
first fabricated for the benefit of Mr. Benjamin when she had the jewels valued, and which
she had since told with different degrees of precision to various people,--to Lady Linlithgow,
to Mr. Camperdown, to Lucy, and to Lord Fawn,--she now repeated with increased precision to
her cousin. Sir Florian, in putting the trinket into her hands, had explained to her that it
was very valuable, and that she was to regard it as her own peculiar property. "If it was an
heirloom he couldn't do it," Frank had said, with all the confidence of a practising barrister.

"He made it over as an heirloom to me," said Lizzie, with plaintive tenderness.

"That's nonsense, dear Lizzie." Then she smiled sweetly on him, and patted the back of his
hand with hers. She was very gentle with him, and bore his assumed superiority with pretty
meekness. "He could not make it over as an heirloom to you. If it was his to give, he could
give it you."

"It was his,--certainly."

"That is just what I cannot tell as yet, and what must be found out. If the diamonds formed
part of an heirloom,--and there is evidence that it is so,--you must give them up. Sir Florian
could only give away what was his own to give."

"But Lord Fawn had no right to dictate."

"Certainly not," said Frank; and then he made a promise, which he knew to be rash, that he
would stand by his pretty cousin in this affair. "I don't see why you should assume that Lady
Eustace is keeping property that doesn't belong to her," he said to Lord Fawn.

"I go by what Camperdown tells me," said Lord Fawn.

"Mr. Camperdown is a very excellent attorney, and a most respectable man," said Greystock.
"I have nothing on earth to say against Mr. Camperdown. But Mr. Camperdown isn't the law and
the prophets, nor yet can we allow him to be judge and jury in such a case as this."

"Surely, Mr. Greystock, you wouldn't wish it to go before a jury."

"You don't understand me, Lord Fawn. If any claim be really made for these jewels by Mr. John
Eustace on the part of the heir, or on behalf of the estate, a statement had better be submitted
to counsel. The family deeds must be inspected, and no doubt counsel would agree in telling
my cousin, Lady Eustace, what she should, or what she should not do. In the meantime, I understand
that you are engaged to marry her?"

"I was engaged to her, certainly," said Lord Fawn.

"You can hardly mean to assert, my lord, that you intend to be untrue to your promise, and
to throw over your own engagement because my cousin has expressed her wish to retain property
which she believes to be her own!" This was said in a tone which made Lord Fawn surer than
ever that Greystock was his enemy to the knife. Personally, he was not a coward; and he knew
enough of the world to be quite sure that Greystock would not attempt any personal encounter.
But morally, Lord Fawn was a coward, and he did fear that the man before him would work him
some bitter injury. "You cannot mean that," continued Frank, "and you will probably allow me
to assure my cousin that she misunderstood you in the matter."

"I'd sooner see Mr. Camperdown again before I say anything."

"I cannot understand, Lord Fawn, that a gentleman should require an attorney to tell him what
to do in such a case as this." They were standing now, and Lord Fawn's countenance was heavy,
troubled, and full of doubt. He said nothing, and was probably altogether unaware how eloquent
was his face. "My cousin, Lady Eustace," continued Frank, "must not be kept in this suspense.
I agree on her behalf that her title to these trinkets must be made the subject of inquiry
by persons adequate to form a judgment. Of course, I, as her relative, shall take no part in
that inquiry. But, as her relative, I must demand from you an admission that your engagement
with her cannot in any way be allowed to depend on the fate of those jewels. She has chosen
to accept you as her future husband, and I am bound to see that she is treated with good faith,
honour, and fair observance."

Frank made his demand very well, while Lord Fawn was looking like a whipped dog. "Of course,"
said his lordship, "all I want is, that the right thing should be done."

"The right thing will be done. My cousin wishes to keep nothing that is not her own. I may
tell her, then, that she will receive from you an assurance that you have had no intention
of departing from your word?" After this, Lord Fawn made some attempt at a stipulation that
this assurance to Lizzie was to be founded on the counter-assurance given to him that the matter
of the diamonds should be decided by proper legal authority; but Frank would not submit to
this, and at last the Under-Secretary yielded. The engagement was to remain in force. Counsel
were to be employed. The two lovers were not to see each other just at present. And when the
matter had been decided by the lawyers, Lord Fawn was to express his regret for having suspected
his lady-love! That was the verbal agreement, according to Frank Greystock's view of it. Lord
Fawn, no doubt, would have declared that he had never consented to the latter stipulation.

About a week after this there was a meeting at Mr. Camperdown's chambers. Greystock, as his
cousin's friend, attended to hear what Mr. Camperdown had to say in the presence of Lord Fawn
and John Eustace. He, Frank, had, in the meantime, been down to Richmond, had taken Lucy to
his arms as his future bride, and had been closeted with Lady Fawn. As a man who was doing
his duty by Lucy Morris, he was welcomed and made much of by her ladyship; but it had been
impossible to leave Lizzie's name altogether unmentioned, and Frank had spoken as the champion
of his cousin. Of course there had arisen something of ill-feeling between the two. Lady Fawn
had taught herself to hate Lizzie, and was desirous that the match should be over, diamonds
or no diamonds. She could not quite say this to her visitor, but she showed her feeling very
plainly. Frank was courteous, cold, and resolute in presuming, or pretending to presume, that
as a matter of course the marriage would take place. Lady Fawn intended to be civil, but she
could not restrain her feeling; and though she did not dare to say that her son would have
nothing more to do with Lizzie Eustace, she showed very plainly that she intended to work with
that object. Of course, the two did not part as cordial friends, and of course poor Lucy perceived
that it was so.

Before the meeting took place, Mr. Camperdown had been at work, looking over old deeds. It
is undoubtedly the case that things often become complicated which, from the greatness of their
importance, should have been kept clear as running water. The diamonds in question had been
bought, with other jewels, by Sir Florian's grandfather, on the occasion of his marriage with
the daughter of a certain duke,--on which occasion old family jewels, which were said to have
been heirlooms, were sold or given in exchange as part value for those then purchased. This
grandfather, who had also been Sir Florian in his time, had expressly stated in his will that
these jewels were to be regarded as an heirloom in the family, and had as such left them to
his eldest son, and to that son's eldest son, should such a child be born. His eldest son had
possessed them, but not that son's son. There was such an Eustace born, but he had died before
his father. The younger son of that old Sir Florian had then succeeded, as Sir Thomas, and
he was the father of that Florian who had married Lizzie Eustace. That last Sir Florian had
therefore been the fourth in succession from the old Sir Florian by whom the will had been
made, and who had directed that these jewels should be regarded as heirlooms in the family.
The two intermediate baronets had made no allusion to the diamonds in any deeds executed by
them. Indeed, Sir Florian's father had died without a will. There were other jewels, larger
but much less valuable than the diamonds, still in the hands of the Messrs. Garnett, as to
which no question was raised. The late Sir Florian had, by his will, left all the property
in his house at Portray to his widow, but all property elsewhere to his heir. This was what
Mr. Camperdown had at last learned, but he had been forced to admit to himself, while learning
this, that there was confusion.

He was confident enough, however, that there was no difficulty in the matter. The Messrs. Garnett
were able to say that the necklace had been in their keeping, with various other jewels still
in their possession, from the time of the death of the late Lady Eustace, up to the marriage
of the late Sir Florian, her son. They stated the date on which the jewels were given up to
be the 24th of September, which was the day after Sir Florian's return from Scotland with his
bride. Lizzie's first statement had coincided with this entry in the Messrs. Garnett's books;
but latterly she had asserted that the necklace had been given to her in Scotland. When Mr.
Camperdown examined the entry himself in the jewellers' book, he found the figures to be so
blotted that they might represent either the 4th or 24th September. Now, the 4th September
had been the day preceding Sir Florian's marriage. John Eustace only knew that he had seen
the necklace worn in Scotland by his mother. The bishop only knew that he had often seen them
on the neck of his sister-in-law when, as was very often the case, she appeared in full-blown
society. Mr. Camperdown believed that he had traced two stories to Lizzie,--one, repeated more
than once, that the diamonds had been given to her in London, and a second, made to himself,
that they had been given to her at Portray. He himself believed that they had never been in
Scotland since the death of the former Lady Eustace; but he was quite confident that he could
trust altogether to the disposition made of them by the old Sir Florian. There could be no
doubt as to these being the diamonds there described, although the setting had been altered.
Old Mr. Garnett stated that he would swear to them if he saw the necklace.

"You cannot suppose that Lady Eustace wishes to keep anything that is not her own," said Frank
Greystock.

"Of course not," said John Eustace.

"Nobody imagines it," said Mr. Camperdown. Lord Fawn, who felt that he ought not to be there,
and who did not know whether he might with a better grace take Lizzie's part or a part against
her, said nothing. "But," continued Mr. Camperdown, "there is luckily no doubt as to the facts.
The diamonds in question formed a part of a set of most valuable ornaments settled in the family
by Sir Florian Eustace in 1799. The deed was drawn up by my grandfather, and is now here. I
do not know how we are to have further proof. Will you look at the deed, Mr. Greystock, and
at the will?" Frank suggested that, as it might probably be expedient to take advice on the
subject professionally, he had rather not look at the deed. Anything which he might say, on
looking at the document now, could have no weight. "But why should any advice be necessary,"
said Mr. Camperdown, "when the matter is so clear?"

"My dear sir," said Frank, "my cousin, Lady Eustace, is strong in her confidence that her late
husband intended to give them to her as her own, and that he would not have done this without
the power of doing so." Now, Mr. Camperdown was quite sure that Lizzie was lying in this, and
could therefore make no adequate answer. "Your experience must probably have told you," continued
Frank, "that there is considerable difficulty in dealing with the matter of heirlooms."

"I never heard of any such difficulty," said Mr. Camperdown.

"People generally understand it all so clearly," said Lord Fawn.

"The late Sir Florian does not appear to have understood it very clearly," said Frank.

"Let her put them into the hands of any indifferent person or firm till the matter is decided,"
said Mr. Camperdown. "They will be much safer so than in her keeping."

"I think they are quite safe," said Frank.

And this was all that took place at that meeting. As Mr. Camperdown said to John Eustace, it
was manifest enough that she meant "to hang on to them." "I only hope Lord Fawn will not be
fool enough to marry her," said Mr. Camperdown. Lord Fawn himself was of the same way of thinking;--but
then how was he to clear his character of the charge which would be brought against him; and
how was he to stand his ground before Frank Greystock?

CHAPTER XVII

The Diamonds Are Seen in Public

Let it not be supposed that Lady Eustace, during these summer weeks, was living the life of
a recluse. The London season was in its full splendour, and she was by no means a recluse.
During the first year of her widowhood she had been every inch a widow,--as far as crape would
go, and a quiet life either at Bobsborough or Portray Castle. During this year her child was
born,--and she was in every way thrown upon her good behaviour, living with bishops' wives
and deans' daughters. Two years of retreat from the world is generally thought to be the proper
thing for a widow. Lizzie had not quite accomplished her two years before she re-opened the
campaign in Mount Street with very small remnants of weeds, and with her crape brought down
to a minimum;--but she was young and rich, and the world is aware that a woman of twenty-two
can hardly afford to sacrifice two whole years. In the matter of her widowhood Lizzie did not
encounter very much reproach. She was not shunned, or so ill spoken of as to have a widely-spread
bad name among the streets and squares in which her carriage-wheels rolled. People called her
a flirt, held up their hands in surprise at Sir Florian's foolish generosity,--for the accounts
of Lizzie's wealth were greatly exaggerated,--and said that of course she would marry again.

The general belief which often seizes upon the world in regard to some special falsehood is
very surprising. Everybody on a sudden adopts an idea that some particular man is over head
and ears in debt, so that he can hardly leave his house for fear of the bailiffs;--or that
some ill-fated woman is cruelly ill-used by her husband;--or that some eldest son has ruined
his father; whereas the man doesn't owe a shilling, the woman never hears a harsh word from
her lord, and the eldest son in question has never succeeded in obtaining a shilling beyond
his allowance. One of the lies about London this season was founded on the extent of Lady Eustace's
jointure. Indeed, the lie went on to state that the jointure was more than a jointure. It was
believed that the property in Ayrshire was her own, to do what she pleased with it. That the
property in Ayrshire was taken at double its value was a matter of course. It had been declared,
at the time of his marriage, that Sir Florian had been especially generous to his penniless
wife, and the generosity was magnified in the ordinary way. No doubt Lizzie's own diligence
had done much to propagate the story as to her positive ownership of Portray. Mr. Camperdown
had been very busy denying this. John Eustace had denied it whenever occasion offered. The
bishop in his quiet way had denied it. Lady Linlithgow had denied it. But the lie had been
set on foot and had thriven, and there was hardly a man about town who didn't know that Lady
Eustace had eight or nine thousand a year, altogether at her own disposal, down in Scotland.
Of course a woman so endowed, so rich, so beautiful, so clever, so young, would marry again,
and would marry well. No doubt, added to this there was a feeling that "Lizzie," as she was
not uncommonly called by people who had hardly ever seen her, had something amiss with it all.
"I don't know where it is she's lame," said that very clever man, Captain Boodle, who had lately
reappeared among his military friends at his club, "but she don't go flat all round."

"She has the devil of a temper, no doubt," said Lieutenant Griggs.

"No mouth, I should say," said Boodle. It was thus that Lizzie was talked about at the clubs;
but she was asked to dinners and balls, and gave little dinners herself, and to a certain extent
was the fashion. Everybody had declared that of course she would marry again, and now it was
known everywhere that she was engaged to Lord Fawn.

"Poor dear Lord Fawn!" said Lady Glencora Palliser to her dear friend Madame Max Goesler; "do
you remember how violently he was in love with Violet Effingham two years ago?"

"Two years is a long time, Lady Glencora; and Violet Effingham has chosen another husband."

"But isn't this a fall for him? Violet was the sweetest girl out, and at one time I really
thought she meant to take him."

"I thought she meant to take another man whom she did not take," said Madame Goesler, who had
her own recollections, who was a widow herself, and who, at the period to which Lady Glencora
was referring, had thought that perhaps she might cease to be a widow. Not that she had ever
suggested to herself that Lord Fawn might be her second husband.

"Poor Lord Fawn!" continued Lady Glencora. "I suppose he is terribly in want of money."

"But surely Lady Eustace is very pretty."

"Yes;--she is very pretty; nay more, she is quite lovely to look at. And she is clever,--very.
And she is rich,--very. But--"

"Well, Lady Glencora. What does your 'but' mean?"

"Who ever explains a 'but'? You're a great deal too clever, Madame Goesler, to want any explanation.
And I couldn't explain it. I can only say I'm sorry for poor Lord Fawn,--who is a gentleman,
but will never set the Thames on fire."

"No, indeed. All the same, I like Lord Fawn extremely," said Madame Goesler, "and I think he's
just the man to marry Lady Eustace. He's always at his office or at the House."

"A man may be a great deal at his office, and a great deal more at the House than Lord Fawn,"
said Lady Glencora laughing, "and yet think about his wife, my dear." For of all men known,
no man spent more hours at the House or in his office than did Lady Glencora's husband, Mr.
Palliser, who at this time, and had now for more than two years, filled the high place of Chancellor
of the Exchequer.

This conversation took place in Madame Goesler's little drawing-room in Park Lane; but, three
days after this, the same two ladies met again at the house then occupied by Lady Chiltern
in Portman Square,--Lady Chiltern, with whom, as Violet Effingham, poor Lord Fawn had been
much in love. "I think it is the nicest match in the world for him," Lady Chiltern had said
to Madame Goesler.

"But have you heard of the diamonds?" asked Lady Glencora.

"What diamonds?" "Whose diamonds?" Neither of the others had heard of the diamonds, and Lady
Glencora was able to tell her story. Lady Eustace had found all the family jewels belonging
to the Eustace family in the strong plate room at Portray Castle, and had taken possession
of them as property found in her own house. John Eustace and the bishop had combined in demanding
them on behalf of the heir, and a lawsuit had then commenced! The diamonds were the most costly
belonging to any Commoner in England, and had been valued at twenty-four thousand pounds! Lord
Fawn had retreated from his engagement the moment he heard that any doubt was thrown on Lady
Eustace's right to their possession! Lady Eustace had declared her intention of bringing an
action against Lord Fawn,--and had also secreted the diamonds! The reader will be aware that
this statement was by no means an accurate history of the difficulty as far as it had as yet
progressed. It was, indeed, absolutely false in every detail; but it sufficed to show that
the matter was becoming public. "You don't mean to say that Lord Fawn is off?" asked Madame
Goesler.

"I do," said Lady Glencora.

"Poor Lord Fawn!" exclaimed Lady Chiltern. "It really seems as though he never would be settled."

"I don't think he has courage enough for such conduct as that," said Madame Goesler.

"And besides, Lady Eustace's income is quite certain," said Lady Chiltern, "and poor dear Lord
Fawn does want money so badly."

"But it is very disagreeable," said Lady Glencora, "to believe that your wife has got the finest
diamonds in England, and then to find that she has only--stolen them. I think Lord Fawn is
right. If a man does marry for money he should have the money. I wonder she ever took him.
There is no doubt about her beauty, and she might have done better."

"I won't hear Lord Fawn be-littled," said Lady Chiltern.

"Done better!" said Madame Goesler. "How could she have done better? He is a peer, and her
son would be a peer. I don't think she could have done better." Lady Glencora in her time had
wished to marry a man who had sought her for her money. Lady Chiltern in her time had refused
to be Lady Fawn. Madame Goesler in her time had declined to marry an English peer. There was,
therefore, something more of interest in the conversation to each of them than was quite expressed
in the words spoken. "Is she to be at your party on Friday, Lady Glencora?" asked Madame Goesler.

"She has said she would come,--and so has Lord Fawn; for that matter, Lord Fawn dines with
us. She'll find that out, and then she'll stay away."

"Not she," said Lady Chiltern. "She'll come for the sake of the bravado. She's not the woman
to show the white feather."

"If he's ill-using her she's quite right," said Madame Goesler.

"And wear the very diamonds in dispute," said Lady Chiltern. It was thus that the matter was
discussed among ladies in the town.

"Is Fawn's marriage going on?" This question was asked of Mr. Legge Wilson by Barrington Erle.
Mr. Legge Wilson was the Secretary of State for India, and Barrington Erle was in the Government.

"Upon my word I don't know," said Mr. Wilson. "The work goes on at the office;--that's all
I know about Fawn. He hasn't told me of his marriage, and therefore I haven't spoken to him
about it."

"He hasn't made it official?"

"The papers haven't come before me yet," said Mr. Wilson.

"When they do they'll be very awkward papers, as far as I hear," said Barrington Erle. "There
is no doubt they were engaged, and I believe there is no doubt that he has declared off, and
refused to give any reason."

"I suppose the money is not all there," suggested Mr. Wilson.

"There's a queer story going about as to some diamonds. No one knows whom they belong to, and
they say that Fawn has accused her of stealing them. He wants to get hold of them, and she
won't give them up. I believe the lawyers are to have a shy at it. I'm sorry for Fawn. It'll
do him a deal of mischief."

"You'll find he won't come out much amiss," said Mr. Legge Wilson. "He's as cautious a man
as there is in London. If there is anything wrong--"

"There is a great deal wrong," said Barrington Erle.

"You'll find it will be on her side."

"And you'll find also that she'll contrive that all the blame shall lie upon him. She's clever
enough for anything! Who's to be the new bishop?"

"I have not heard Gresham say as yet; Jones, I should think," said Mr. Wilson.

"And who is Jones?"

"A clergyman, I suppose,--of the safe sort. I don't know that anything else is necessary."
From which it will be seen that Mr. Wilson had his own opinion about church matters, and also
that people very high up in the world were concerning themselves about poor Lizzie's affairs.

Lady Eustace did go to Lady Glencora's evening party, in spite of Mr. Camperdown and all her
difficulties. Lady Chiltern had been quite right in saying that Lizzie was not the woman to
show the white feather. She went, knowing that she would meet Lord Fawn, and she did wear the
diamonds. It was the first time that they had been round her neck since the occasion in respect
to which Sir Florian had placed them in her hands, and it had not been without much screwing
up of her courage that she had resolved to appear on this occasion with the much-talked-of
ornament upon her person. It was now something over a fortnight since she had parted with Lord
Fawn at Fawn Court; and, although they were still presumed to be engaged to marry each other,
and were both living in London, she had not seen him since. A sort of message had reached her,
through Frank Greystock, to the effect that Lord Fawn thought it as well that they should not
meet till the matter was settled. Stipulations had been made by Frank on her behalf, and this
had been inserted among them. She had received the message with scorn,--with a mixture of scorn
and gratitude,--of scorn in regard to the man who had promised to marry her, and of affectionate
gratitude to the cousin who had made the arrangement. "Of course I shall not wish to see him
while he chooses to entertain such an idea," she had said, "but I shall not keep out of his
way. You would not wish me to keep out of his way, Frank?" When she received a card for Lady
Glencora's party, very soon after this, she was careful to answer it in such a manner as to
impress Lady Glencora with a remembrance of her assent. Lord Fawn would probably be there,--unless
he remained away in order to avoid her. Then she had ten days in which to make up her mind
as to wearing the diamonds. Her courage was good; but then her ignorance was so great! She
did not know whether Mr. Camperdown might not contrive to have them taken by violence from
her neck, even on Lady Glencora's stairs. Her best security,--so she thought,--would be in
the fact that Mr. Camperdown would not know of her purpose. She told no one,--not even Miss
Macnulty; but she appeared before that lady, arrayed in all her glory, just as she was about
to descend to her carriage. "You've got the necklace on!" said Miss Macnulty. "Why should I
not wear my own necklace?" she asked, with assumed anger.

Lady Glencora's rooms were already very full when Lizzie entered them, but she was without
a gentleman, and room was made for her to pass quickly up the stairs. The diamonds had been
recognised by many before she had reached the drawing-room;--not that these very diamonds were
known, or that there was a special memory for that necklace;--but the subject had been so generally
discussed, that the blaze of the stones immediately brought it to the minds of men and women.
"There she is, with poor Eustace's twenty thousand pounds round her neck," said Laurence Fitzgibbon
to his friend Barrington Erle. "And there is Lord Fawn going to look after them," replied the
other.

Lord Fawn thought it right, at any rate, to look after his bride. Lady Glencora had whispered
into his ear before they went down to dinner that Lady Eustace would be there in the evening,
so that he might have the option of escaping or remaining. Could he have escaped without any
one knowing that he had escaped, he would not have gone up-stairs after dinner; but he knew
that he was observed; he knew that people were talking about him; and he did not like it to
be said that he had run away. He went up, thinking much of it all, and as soon as he saw Lady
Eustace he made his way to her and accosted her. Many eyes were upon them, but no ear probably
heard how infinitely unimportant were the words which they spoke to each other. Her manner
was excellent. She smiled and gave him her hand,--just her hand without the slightest pressure,--and
spoke a half-whispered word, looking into his face, but betraying nothing by her look. Then
he asked her whether she would dance. Yes;--she would stand up for a quadrille; and they did
stand up for a quadrille. As she danced with no one else, it was clear that she treated Lord
Fawn as her lover. As soon as the dance was done she took his arm and moved for a few minutes
about the room with him. She was very conscious of the diamonds, but she did not show the feeling
in her face. He also was conscious of them, and he did show it. He did not recognise the necklace,
but he knew well that this was the very bone of contention. They were very beautiful, and seemed
to him to outshine all other jewellery in the room. And Lady Eustace was a woman of whom it
might almost be said that she ought to wear diamonds. She was made to sparkle, to be bright
with outside garniture,--to shine and glitter, and be rich in apparel. The only doubt might
be whether paste diamonds might not better suit her character. But these were not paste, and
she did shine and glitter and was very rich. It must not be brought as an accusation against
Lady Glencora's guests that they pressed round to look at the necklace. Lady Glencora's guests
knew better than to do that. But there was some slight ferment,--slight, but still felt both
by Lord Fawn and by Lady Eustace. Eyes were turned upon the diamonds, and there were whispers
here and there. Lizzie bore it very well; but Lord Fawn was uncomfortable.

"I like her for wearing them," said Lady Glencora to Lady Chiltern.

"Yes;--if she means to keep them. I don't pretend, however, to know anything about it. You
see the match isn't off."

"I suppose not. What do you think I did? He dined here, you know, and, before going down-stairs,
I told him that she was coming. I thought it only fair."

"And what did he say?"

"I took care that he shouldn't have to say anything; but, to tell the truth, I didn't expect
him to come up."

"There can't be any quarrel at all," said Lady Chiltern.

"I'm not sure of that," said Lady Glencora. "They are not so very loving."

Lady Eustace made the most of her opportunity. Soon after the quadrille was over she asked
Lord Fawn to get her carriage for her. Of course he got it, and of course he put her into it,
passing up and down-stairs twice in his efforts on her behalf. And of course all the world
saw what he was doing. Up to the last moment not a word had been spoken between them that might
not have passed between the most ordinary acquaintance, but, as she took her seat, she put
her face forward and did say a word. "You had better come to me soon," she said.

"I will," said Lord Fawn.

"Yes; you had better come soon. All this is wearing me,--perhaps more than you think."

"I will come soon," said Lord Fawn, and then he returned among Lady Glencora's guests, very
uncomfortable. Lizzie got home in safety and locked up her diamonds in the iron box.

CHAPTER XVIII

"And I Have Nothing to Give"

It was now the end of June, and Frank Greystock had been as yet but once at Fawn Court since
he had written to Lucy Morris asking her to be his wife. That was three weeks since, and as
the barrier against him at Fawn Court had been removed by Lady Fawn herself, the Fawn girls
thought that as a lover he was very slack; but Lucy was not in the least annoyed. Lucy knew
that it was all right; for Frank, as he took his last walk round the shrubbery with her during
that visit, had given her to understand that there was a little difference between him and
Lady Fawn in regard to Lizzie Eustace. "I am her only relative in London," Frank had said.

"Lady Linlithgow," suggested Lucy.

"They have quarrelled, and the old woman is as bitter as gall. There is no one else to stand
up for her, and I must see that she isn't ill-used. Women do hate each other so virulently,
and Lady Fawn hates her future daughter-in-law." Lucy did not in the least grudge her lover's
assistance to his cousin. There was nothing of jealousy in her feeling. She thought that Lizzie
was unworthy of Frank's goodness, but on such an occasion as this she would not say so. She
told him nothing of the bribe that had been offered her, nor on that subject had she said a
word to any of the Fawns. She understood, too, that as Frank had declared his purpose of supporting
Lizzie, it might be as well that he should see just at present as little of Lady Fawn as possible.
Not a word, however, had Lady Fawn said to Lucy disparaging her lover for his conduct. It was
quite understood now at Fawn Court, by all the girls, and no doubt by the whole establishment,
that Lizzie Eustace was to be regarded as an enemy. It was believed by them all that Lord Fawn
had broken off the match--or, at least, that he was resolved to break it; but various stratagems
were to be used, and terrible engines of war were to be brought up, if necessary, to prevent
an alliance which was now thought to be disreputable. Mrs. Hittaway had been hard at work,
and had found out something very like truth in regard to the whole transaction with Mr. Benjamin.
Perhaps Mrs. Hittaway had found out more than was quite true as to poor Lizzie's former sins;
but what she did find out she used with all her skill, communicating her facts to her mother,
to Mr. Camperdown, and to her brother. Her brother had almost quarrelled with her, but still
she continued to communicate her facts.

At this period Frank Greystock was certainly somewhat unreasonable in regard to his cousin.
At one time, as the reader will remember, he had thought of asking her to be his wife;--because
she was rich; but even then he had not thought well of her, had hardly believed her to be honest,
and had rejoiced when he found that circumstances rather than his own judgment had rescued
him from that evil. He had professed to be delighted when Lord Fawn was accepted,--as being
happy to think that his somewhat dangerous cousin was provided with so safe a husband; and,
when he had first heard of the necklace, he had expressed an opinion that of course it would
be given up. In all this then he had shown no strong loyalty to his cousin, no very dear friendship,
nothing to make those who knew him feel that he would buckle on armour in her cause. But of
late,--and that, too, since his engagement with Lucy,--he had stood up very stoutly as her
friend, and the armour was being buckled on. He had not scrupled to say that he meant to see
her through this business with Lord Fawn, and had somewhat astonished Mr. Camperdown by raising
a doubt on the question of the necklace. "He can't but know that she has no more right to it
than I have," Mr. Camperdown had said to his son with indignation. Mr. Camperdown was becoming
unhappy about the necklace, not quite knowing how to proceed in the matter.

In the meantime Frank had obeyed his better instincts, and had asked Lucy Morris to be his
wife. He had gone to Fawn Court in compliance with a promise to Lizzie Eustace, that he would
call upon her there. He had walked with Lucy because he was at Fawn Court. And he had written
to Lucy because of the words he had spoken during the walk. In all this the matter had arranged
itself as such matters do, and there was nothing, in truth, to be regretted. He really did
love the girl with all his heart. It may, perhaps, be said that he had never in truth loved
any other woman. In the best humours of his mind he would tell himself,--had from old times
told himself often,--that unless he married Lucy Morris he could never marry at all. When his
mother, knowing that poor Lucy was penniless, had, as mothers will do, begged him to beware,
he had spoken up for his love honestly, declaring to her that in his eyes there was no woman
living equal to Lucy Morris. The reader has seen him with the words almost on his tongue with
which to offer his hand to his cousin, Lizzie Eustace, knowing as he did so that his heart
had been given to Lucy,--knowing also that Lucy's heart had been given to him! But he had not
done it, and the better humour had prevailed.

Within the figure and frame and clothes and cuticle, within the bones and flesh of many of
us, there is but one person,--a man or woman, with a preponderance either of good or evil,
whose conduct in any emergency may be predicted with some assurance of accuracy by any one
knowing the man or woman. Such persons are simple, single, and, perhaps, generally, safe. They
walk along lines in accordance with certain fixed instincts or principles, and are to-day as
they were yesterday, and will be to-morrow as they are to-day. Lady Eustace was such a person,
and so was Lucy Morris. Opposite in their characters as the two poles, they were, each of them,
a simple entity; and any doubt or error in judging of the future conduct of either of them
would come from insufficient knowledge of the woman. But there are human beings who, though
of necessity single in body, are dual in character;--in whose breasts not only is evil always
fighting against good,--but to whom evil is sometimes horribly, hideously evil, but is sometimes
also not hideous at all. Of such men it may be said that Satan obtains an intermittent grasp,
from which, when it is released, the rebound carries them high amidst virtuous resolutions
and a thorough love of things good and noble. Such men,--or women,--may hardly, perhaps, debase
themselves with the more vulgar vices. They will not be rogues, or thieves, or drunkards,--or,
perhaps, liars; but ambition, luxury, self-indulgence, pride, and covetousness will get a hold
of them, and in various moods will be to them virtues in lieu of vices. Such a man was Frank
Greystock, who could walk along the banks of the quiet, trout-giving Bob, at Bobsborough, whipping
the river with his rod, telling himself that the world lost for love would be a bad thing well
lost for a fine purpose; and who could also stand, with his hands in his trousers pockets,
looking down upon the pavement, in the purlieus of the courts at Westminster, and swear to
himself that he would win the game, let the cost to his heart be what it might. What must a
man be who would allow some undefined feeling,--some inward ache which he calls a passion and
cannot analyse, some desire which has come of instinct and not of judgment,--to interfere with
all the projects of his intellect, with all the work which he has laid out for his accomplishment?
Circumstances had thrown him into a path of life for which, indeed, his means were insufficient,
but which he regarded as, of all paths, the noblest and the manliest. If he could be true to
himself,--with such truth as at these moments would seem to him to be the truest truth,--there
was nothing in rank, nothing in ambition, which might not be within his reach. He might live
with the highest, the best-educated, and the most beautiful; he might assist in directing national
councils by his intelligence; and might make a name for himself which should be remembered
in his country, and of which men would read the records in the histories written in after ages.
But to do this, he must walk warily. He, an embarrassed man, a man already in debt, a man with
no realised property coming to him in reversion, was called upon to live, and to live as though
at his ease, among those who had been born to wealth. And, indeed, he had so cleverly learned
the ways of the wealthy, that he hardly knew any longer how to live at his ease among the poor.

But had he walked warily when he went down to Richmond, and afterwards, sitting alone in the
obscurity of his chamber, wrote the letter which had made Lucy Morris so happy? It must be
acknowledged that he did, in truth, love the girl,--that he was capable of a strong feeling.
She was not beautiful,--hardly even pretty, small, in appearance almost insignificant, quite
penniless, a governess! He had often asked himself what it was that had so vanquished him.
She always wore a pale grey frock,--with, perhaps, a grey ribbon,--never running into any bright
form of clothing. She was educated, very well-educated; but she owned no great accomplishment.
She had not sung his heart away, or ravished him with the harp. Even of her words she was sparing,
seeming to care more to listen than to speak; a humble little thing to look at,--one of whom
you might say that she regarded herself as well-placed if left in the background. Yet he had
found her out, and knew her. He had recognised the treasure, and had greatly desired to possess
it. He had confessed to himself that, could splendour and ambition be laid aside, that little
thing would be all the world to him. As he sat in court, or in the House, patient from practice
as he half-listened to the ponderous speeches of advocates or politicians, he would think of
the sparkle in her eye, of the dimple in her chin, of the lines of the mouth which could plead
so eloquently, though with few words. To sit on some high seat among his countrymen, and also
to marry Lucy Morris,--that would be a high ambition. He had chosen his way now, and she was
engaged to be his wife.

As he thought of it after he had done it, it was not all happiness, all contentment, with him.
He did feel that he had crippled himself,--impeded himself in running the race, as it were,
with a log round his leg. He had offered to marry her, and he must do so at once, or almost
at once, because she could now find no other home but his. He knew, as well as did Lady Fawn,
that she could not go into another family as governess; and he knew also that she ought not
to remain in Lady Fawn's house an hour longer than she would be wanted there. He must alter
his plan of living at once, give up the luxury of his rooms at the Grosvenor, take a small
house somewhere, probably near the Swiss Cottage, come up and down to his chambers by the underground
railway, and, in all probability, abandon Parliament altogether. He was not sure whether, in
good faith, he should not at once give notice of his intended acceptance of the Chiltern Hundreds
to the electors of Bobsborough. Thus meditating, under the influence of that intermittent evil
grasp, almost angry with himself for the open truth which he had spoken,--or rather written,
and perhaps thinking more of Lizzie and her beauty than he should have done, in the course
of three weeks he had paid but one visit to Fawn Court. Then, of a sudden, finding himself
one afternoon relieved from work, he resolved to go there. The days were still almost at their
longest, and he did not scruple to present himself before Lady Fawn between eight and nine
in the evening. They were all at tea, and he was welcomed kindly. Lucy, when he was announced,
at once got up and met him almost at the doorway, sparkling with just a tear of joy in her
eye, with a look in her face, and a loving manner, which for the moment made him sure that
the little house near the Swiss Cottage would, after all, be the only Elysium upon earth. If
she spoke a word he hardly heard it, but her hand was in his, so cool and soft, almost trembling
in its grasp, with no attempt to withdraw itself, frank, loving, and honest. There was a perfect
satisfaction in her greeting which at once told him that she had no discontented thoughts,--had
had no such thought,--because he had been so long without coming. To see him was a great joy.
But every hour of her life was a joy to her, knowing, as she did know, that he loved her.

Lady Fawn was gracious, the girls were hospitable, and he found himself made very welcome amidst
all the women at the tea-table. Not a word was said about Lizzie Eustace. Lady Fawn talked
about Parliament, and professed to pity a poor lover who was so bound to his country that he
could not see his mistress above once a fortnight. "But there'll be a good time coming next
month," she said;--for it was now July. "Though the girls can't make their claims felt, the
grouse can."

"It isn't the House altogether that rules me with a rod of iron, Lady Fawn," said Frank, "but
the necessity of earning daily bread by the sweat of my brow. A man who has to sit in court
all day must take the night,--or, indeed, any time that he can get,--to read up his cases."

"But the grouse put a stop to all work," said Lady Fawn. "My gardener told me just now that
he wanted a day or two in August. I don't doubt but that he is going to the moors. Are you
going to the moors, Mr. Greystock?"

As it happened, Frank Greystock did not quite know whether he was going to the moors or not.
The Ayrshire grouse-shooting is not the best in Scotland;--but there is grouse-shooting in
Ayrshire; and the shooting on the Portray mountains is not the worst shooting in the county.
The castle at Portray overhangs the sea, but there is a wild district attached to it stretching
far back inland, in regard to which Lizzie Eustace was very proud of talking of "her shooting."
Early in the spring of the present year she had asked her cousin Frank to accept the shooting
for the coming season,--and he had accepted it. "I shall probably be abroad," she said, "but
there is the old castle." She had offered it as though he had been her brother, and he had
said that he would go down for a couple of weeks,--not to the castle, but to a little lodge
some miles up from the sea, of which she told him when he declined the castle. When this invitation
was given there was no engagement between her and Lord Fawn. Since that date, within the last
day or two, she had reminded him of it. "Won't his lordship be there?" he had said laughingly.
"Certainly not," she had answered with serious earnestness. Then she had explained that her
plan of going abroad had been set aside by circumstances. She did mean to go down to Portray.
"I couldn't have you at the castle," she said, smiling; "but even an Othello couldn't object
to a first cousin at a little cottage ever so many miles off." It wasn't for him to suggest
what objections might rise to the brain of a modern Othello; but after some hesitation he said
that he would be there. He had promised the trip to a friend, and would like to keep his promise.
But, nevertheless, he almost thought that he ought to avoid Portray. He intended to support
his cousin as far as he might do so honestly; but he was not quite minded to stand by her through
good report and evil report. He did not desire to be specially known as her champion, and yet
he felt that that position would be almost forced upon him. He foresaw danger,--and consequently
he was doubting about his journey to Scotland.

"I hardly know whether I am or not," said Frank,--and he almost felt that he was blushing.

"I hope you are," said Lucy. "When a man has to work all day and nearly all night he should
go where he may get fresh air."

"There's very good air without going to Scotland for it," said Lady Fawn, who kept up an excellent
house at Richmond, but who, with all her daughters, could not afford autumn trips. The Fawns
lived at Fawn Court all the year round, and consequently Lady Fawn thought that air was to
be found in England sufficiently good for all purposes of vitality and recreation.

"It's not quite the same thing," said Lucy;--"at least, not for a man."

After that she was allowed to escape into the grounds with her lover, and was made happy with
half-an-hour of unalloyed bliss. To be alone with the girl to whom he is not engaged is a man's
delight;--to be alone with the man to whom she is engaged is the woman's. When the thing is
settled there is always present to the man something of a feeling of clipped wings; whereas
the woman is conscious of a new power of expanding her pinions. The certainty of the thing
is to him repressive. He has done his work, and gained his victory,--and by conquering has
become a slave. To her the certainty of the thing is the removal of a restraint which has hitherto
always been on her. She can tell him everything, and be told everything,--whereas her previous
confidences, made with those of her own sex, have been tame, and by comparison valueless. He
has no new confidence to make,--unless when he comes to tell her he likes his meat well done,
and wants his breakfast to be punctual. Lucy now not only promised herself, but did actually
realise a great joy. He seemed to her all that her heart desired. He was a man whose manner
was naturally caressing and demonstrative, and she was to him, of all women, the sweetest,
the dearest, the most perfect,--and all his own. "But, Frank,"--she had already been taught
to call him Frank when they were alone together,--"what will come of all this about Lizzie
Eustace?"

"They will be married,--of course."

"Do you think so? I am sure Lady Fawn doesn't think so."

"What Lady Fawn thinks on such a matter cannot be helped. When a man asks a woman to marry
him, and she accepts, the natural consequence is that they will be married. Don't you think so?"

"I hope so,--sometimes," said Lucy, with her two hands joined upon his arm, and hanging to
it with all her little weight.

"You really do hope it?" he said.

"Oh, I do; you know I do. Hope it! I should die if I didn't hope it."

"Then why shouldn't she?" He asked his question with a quick, sharp voice, and then turned
upon her for an answer.

"I don't know," she said, very softly, and still clinging to him. "I sometimes think there
is a difference in people."

"There is a difference; but, still, we hardly judge of people sufficiently by our own feelings.
As she accepted him, you may be sure that she wishes to marry him. She has more to give than
he has."

"And I have nothing to give," she said.

"If I thought so, I'd go back even now," he answered. "It is because you have so much to give,--so
much more than most others,--that I have thought of you, dreamed of you as my wife, almost
ever since I first knew you."

"I have nothing left to give," she said. "What I ever had is all given. People call it the
heart. I think it is heart, and brain, and mind, and body,--and almost soul. But, Frank, though
Lizzie Eustace is your cousin, I don't want to be likened to her. She is very clever, and beautiful,--and
has a way with her that I know is charming;--but--"

"But what, Lucy?"

"I don't think she cares so much as some people. I dare say she likes Lord Fawn very well,
but I do not believe she loves him as I love you."

"They're engaged," said Frank, "and the best thing they can do is to marry each other. I can
tell you this, at any rate,"--and his manner again became serious,--"if Lord Fawn behaves ill
to her, I, as her cousin, shall take her part."

"You don't mean that you'll--fight him!"

"No, my darling. Men don't fight each other now-a-days;--not often, at least, and Fawn and
I are not of the fighting sort. I can make him understand what I mean and what others will
mean without fighting him. He is making a paltry excuse."

"But why should he want to excuse himself--without reason?"

"Because he is afraid. People have got hold of him and told him lies, and he thinks there will
be a scrape about this necklace, and he hates a scrape. He'll marry her at last, without a
doubt, and Lady Fawn is only making trouble for herself by trying to prevent it. You can't
do anything."

"Oh no;--I can't do anything. When she was here it became at last quite disagreeable. She hardly
spoke to them, and I'm sure that even the servants understood that there was a quarrel." She
did not say a word of Lizzie's offer of the brooch to herself, nor of the stories which by
degrees were reaching her ears as to the old debts, and the diamonds, and the young bride's
conduct to Lady Linlithgow as soon as she married her grand husband, Sir Florian. She did think
badly of Lizzie, and could not but regret that her own noble, generous Frank should have to
expend his time and labour on a friend unworthy of his friendship; but there was no shade of
jealousy in her feeling, and she uttered no word against Lizzie more bitter than that in which
she declared that there was a difference between people.

And then there was something said as to their own prospects in life. Lucy at once and with
vehemence declared that she did not look for or expect an immediate marriage. She did not scruple
to tell him that she knew well how difficult was the task before him, and that it might be
essential for his interest that he should remain as he was for a year or two. He was astonished
to find how completely she understood his position, and how thoroughly she sympathised with
his interests. "There is only one thing I couldn't do for you," she said.

"And what is the one thing?"

"I couldn't give you up. I almost thought that I ought to refuse you because I can do nothing,--nothing
to help you. But there will always come a limit to self-denial. I couldn't do that! Could I?"

The reader will know how this question was answered, and will not want to be told of the long,
close, clinging, praiseworthy kiss with which the young barrister assured her that would have
been on her part an act of self-denial which would to him have been absolutely ruinous. It
was agreed, however, between them, that Lady Fawn should be told that they did not propose
to marry till some time in the following year, and that she should be formally asked to allow
Lucy to have a home at Fawn Court in the interval.

CHAPTER XIX

"As My Brother"

Lord Fawn had promised, as he put Lizzie into her carriage, that he would come to her soon,--but
he did not come soon. A fortnight passed and he did not show himself. Nothing further had been
done in the matter of the diamonds, except that Mr. Camperdown had written to Frank Greystock,
explaining how impossible it was that the question of their possession should be referred to
arbitration. According to him they belonged to the heir, as did the estate; and no one would
have the power of accepting an arbitration respecting them,--an arbitration which might separate
them from the estate of which an infant was the owner for his life,--any more than such arbitration
could be accepted as to the property of the estate itself. "Possession is nine points of the
law," said Frank to himself, as he put the letter aside,--thinking at the same time that possession
in the hands of Lizzie Eustace included certainly every one of those nine points. Lizzie wore
her diamonds again and then again. There may be a question whether the possession of the necklace
and the publicity of their history,--which, however, like many other histories, was most inaccurately
told,--did not add something to her reputation as a lady of fashion. In the meantime, Lord
Fawn did not come to see her. So she wrote to him. "My dear Frederic, had you not better come
to me? Yours affectionately,--L. I go to the North at the end of this month."

But Frank Greystock did visit her,--more than once. On the day after the above letter was written
he came to her. It was on Sunday afternoon, when July was more than half over, and he found
her alone. Miss Macnulty had gone to church, and Lizzie was lying listlessly on a sofa with
a volume of poetry in her hand. She had in truth been reading the book, and in her way enjoying
it. It told her the story of certain knights of old, who had gone forth in quest of a sign
from heaven, which sign, if verily seen by them, might be taken to signify that they themselves
were esteemed holy, and fit for heavenly joy. One would have thought that no theme could have
been less palatable to such a one as Lizzie Eustace; but the melody of the lines had pleased
her ear, and she was always able to arouse for herself a false enthusiasm on things which were
utterly outside herself in life. She thought she too could have travelled in search of that
holy sign, and have borne all things, and abandoned all things, and have persevered,--and of
a certainty have been rewarded. But as for giving up a string of diamonds, in common honesty,--that
was beyond her.

"I wonder whether men ever were like that?" she said, as she allowed her cousin to take the
book from her hands.

"Let us hope not."

"Oh, Frank!"

"They were, no doubt, as fanatic and foolish as you please. If you will read to the end--"

"I have read it all,--every word of it," said Lizzie, enthusiastically.

"Then you know that Arthur did not go on the search, because he had a job of work to do, by
the doing of which the people around him might perhaps be somewhat benefited."

"I like Launcelot better than Arthur," said Lizzie.

"So did the Queen," replied Frank.

"Your useful, practical man, who attends vestries, and sits at Boards, and measures out his
gifts to others by the ounce, never has any heart. Has he, Frank?"

"I don't know what heart means. I sometimes fancy that it is a talent for getting into debt,
and running away with other men's wives."

"You say that on purpose to make me quarrel with you. You don't run away with other men's wives,
and you have heart."

"But I get into debt, unfortunately; and as for other men's wives, I am not sure that I may
not do even that some day. Has Lord Fawn been here?" She shook her head. "Or written?" Again
she shook her head. As she did so the long curl waved and was very near to him, for he was
sitting close to the sofa, and she had raised herself so that she might look into his face
and speak to him almost in a whisper. "Something should be settled, Lizzie, before you leave town."

"I wrote to him, yesterday,--one line, and desired him to come. I expected him here to-day,
but you have come instead. Shall I say that I am disappointed?"

"No doubt you are so."

"Oh, Frank, how vain you men are! You want me to swear to you that I would sooner have you
with me than him. You are not content with--thinking it, unless I tell you that it is so. You
know that it is so. Though he is to be my husband,--I suppose he will be my husband,--his spirit
is not congenial to mine, as is yours."

"Had you not loved him you would not have accepted him."

"What was I to do, Frank? What am I to do? Think how desolate I am, how unfriended, how much
in want of some one whom I can call a protector! I cannot have you always with me. You care
more for the little finger of that prim piece of propriety down at the old dowager's than you
do for me and all my sorrows." This was true, but Frank did not say that it was true. "Lord
Fawn is at any rate respectable. At least, I thought he was so when I accepted his offer."

"He is respectable enough."

"Just that;--isn't it?--and nothing more. You do not blame me for saying that I would be his
wife? If you do, I will unsay it, let it cost me what it may. He is treating me so badly that
I need not go far for an excuse." Then she looked into his face with all the eagerness of her
gaze, clearly implying that she expected a serious answer. "Why do you not answer me, Frank?"

"What am I to say? He is a timid, cautious man. They have frightened him about this trumpery
necklace, and he is behaving badly. But he will make a good husband. He is not a spendthrift.
He has rank. All his people are respectable. As Lady Fawn, any house in England will be open
to you. He is not rich, but together you will be rich."

"What is all that without love?"

"I do not doubt his love. And when you are his own he will love you dearly."

"Ah, yes;--as he would a horse or a picture. Is there anything of the rapture of love in that?
Is that your idea of love? Is it so you love your Miss Demure?"

"Don't call names, Lizzie."

"I shall say what I please of her. You and I are to be friends, and I may not speak? No;--I
will have no such friendship! She is demure. If you like it, what harm is there in my saying
it? I am not demure. I know that. I do not, at least, pretend to be other than I am. When she
becomes your wife, I wonder whether you will like her ways?" He had not yet told her that she
was to be his wife, nor did he so tell her now. He thought for a moment that he had better
tell her, but he did not do so. It would, he said to himself, add an embarrassment to his present
position. And as the marriage was to be postponed for a year, it might be better, perhaps,
for Lucy that it should not be declared openly. It was thus he argued with himself, but yet,
no doubt, he knew well that he did not declare the truth because it would take away something
of its sweetness from this friendship with his cousin Lizzie.

"If ever I do marry," he said, "I hope I shall like my wife's ways."

"Of course you will not tell me anything. I do not expect confidence from you. I do not think
a man is ever able to work himself up to the mark of true confidence with his friend. Men together,
when they like each other, talk of politics, or perhaps of money; but I doubt whether they
ever really tell their thoughts and longings to each other."

"Are women more communicative?"

"Yes;--certainly. What is there that I would not tell you if you cared to hear it? Every thought
I have is open to you if you choose to read it. I have that feeling regarding you that I would
keep nothing back from you. Oh, Frank, if you understood me, you could save me,--I was going
to say--from all unhappiness."

She did it so well that he would have been more than man had he not believed some of it. She
was sitting almost upright now, though her feet were still on the sofa, and was leaning over
towards him, as though imploring him for his aid, and her eyes were full of tears, and her
lips were apart as though still eager with the energy of expression, and her hands were clasped
together. She was very lovely, very attractive, almost invincible. For such a one as Frank
Greystock opposition to her in her present mood was impossible. There are men by whom a woman,
if she have wit, beauty, and no conscience, cannot be withstood. Arms may be used against them,
and a sort of battle waged, against which they can raise no shield,--from which they can retire
into no fortress,--in which they can parry no blow. A man so weak and so attacked may sometimes
run; but even the poor chance of running is often cut off from him. How unlike she was to Lucy!
He believed her,--in part; and yet that was the idea that occurred to him. When Lucy was much
in earnest, in her eye, too, a tear would sparkle, the smallest drop, a bright liquid diamond
that never fell; and all her face would be bright and eloquent with feeling;--but how unlike
were the two! He knew that the difference was that between truth and falsehood;--and yet he
partly believed the falsehood! "If I knew how to save you from an hour's uneasiness, I would
do it," he said.

"No;--no;--no;" she murmured.

"Would I not? You do not know me then." He had nothing further to say, and it suited her to
remain silent for the moment, while she dried her eyes, and recovered her composure, and prepared
herself to carry on the battle with a smile. She would carry on the battle, using every wile
she knew, straining every nerve to be victorious, encountering any and all dangers, and yet
she had no definite aim before her. She herself did not know what she would be at. At this
period of her career she did not want to marry her cousin,--having resolved that she would
be Lady Fawn. Nor did she intend that her cousin should be her lover,--in the ordinary sense
of love. She was far too wary in the pursuit of the world's goods to sacrifice herself to any
such wish as that. She did want him to help her about the diamonds,--but such help as that
she might have, as she knew well, on much easier terms. There was probably an anxiety in her
bosom to cause him to be untrue to Lucy Morris; but the guiding motive of her conduct was the
desire to make things seem to be other than they were. To be always acting a part rather than
living her own life was to her everything. "After all we must come to facts," he said, after
a while. "I suppose it will be better that you should marry Lord Fawn."

"If you wish it."

"Nay;--I cannot have that said. In this matter you must rule yourself by your own judgment.
If you are averse to it--" She shook her head. "Then you will own that it had better be so."
Again she shook her head. "Lizzie, for your sake and my own, I must declare, that if you have
no opinion in this matter, neither will I have any. You shall never have to say that I pressed
you into this marriage or debarred you from marrying. I could not bear such an accusation."

"But you might tell me what I ought to do."

"No;--certainly not."

"Think how young I am, and,--by comparison,--how old you are. You are eight years older than
I am. Remember;--after all that I have gone through, I am but twenty-two. At my age other girls
have their friends to tell them. I have no one,--unless you will tell me."

"You have accepted him?"

"Yes."

"I suppose he is not altogether indifferent to you?"

She paused, and again shook her head. "Indeed, I do not know. If you mean, do I love him, as
I could love some man whose heart was quite congenial to my own, certainly I do not." She continued
to shake her head very sadly. "I esteemed him,--when he asked me."

"Say at once that, having made up your mind, you will go through with it."

"You think that I ought?"

"You think so,--yourself."

"So be it, Frank. I will. But, Frank, I will not give up my property. You do not wish me to
do that. It would be weak, now;--would it not? I am sure that it is my own."

"His faith to you should not depend on that."

"No, of course not; that is just what I mean. He can have no right to interfere. When he asked
me to be his wife, he said nothing about that. But if he does not come to me, what shall I do?"

"I suppose I had better see him," said Frank slowly.

"Will you? That will be so good of you. I feel that I can leave it all so safely in your hands.
I shall go out of town, you know, on the thirtieth. I feel that I shall be better away, and
I am sick of all the noise, and glitter, and worldliness of London. You will come on the twelfth?"

"Not quite so soon as that," he said, after a pause.

"But you will come?"

"Yes;--about the twentieth."

"And, of course, I shall see you?"

"Oh, yes."

"So that I may have some one to guide me that I can trust. I have no brother, Frank; do you
ever think of that?" She put out her hand to him, and he clasped it, and held it tight in his
own; and then, after a while, he pulled her towards him. In a moment she was on the ground,
kneeling at his feet, and his arm was round her shoulder, and his hand was on her back, and
he was embracing her. Her face was turned up to him, and he pressed his lips upon her forehead.
"As my brother," she said, stretching back her head and looking up into his face.

"Yes;--as your brother."

They were sitting, or rather acting their little play together, in the back drawing-room, and
the ordinary entrance to the two rooms was from the landing-place into the larger apartment;--of
which fact Lizzie was probably aware, when she permitted herself to fall into a position as
to which a moment or two might be wanted for recovery. When, therefore, the servant in livery
opened the door, which he did, as Frank thought somewhat suddenly, she was able to be standing
on her legs before she was caught. The quickness with which she sprung from her position, and
the facility with which she composed not her face only, but the loose lock of her hair and
all her person, for the reception of the coming visitor, was quite marvellous. About her there
was none of the look of having been found out, which is so very disagreeable to the wearer
of it; whereas Frank, when Lord Fawn was announced, was aware that his manner was awkward,
and his general appearance flurried. Lizzie was no more flurried than if she had stepped that
moment from out of the hands of her tirewoman. She greeted Lord Fawn very prettily, holding
him by the hand long enough to show that she had more claim to do so than could any other woman,
and then she just murmured her cousin's name. The two men shook hands--and looked at each other
as men do who know that they are not friends, and think that they may live to be enemies. Lord
Fawn, who rarely forgot anything, had certainly not forgotten the Sawab; and Frank was aware
that he might soon be called on to address his lordship in anything but friendly terms. They
said, however, a few words about Parliament and the weather, and the desirability of escaping
from London.

"Frank," said Lady Eustace, "is coming down in August to shoot my three annual grouse at Portray.
He would keep one for you, my lord, if he thought you would come for it."

"I'll promise Lord Fawn a fair third, at any rate," said Frank.

"I cannot visit Portray this August, I'm afraid," said his lordship, "much as I might wish
to do so. One of us must remain at the India Office--"

"Oh, that weary India Office!" exclaimed Lizzie.

"I almost think you official men are worse off than we barristers," said Frank. "Well, Lizzie,
good-bye. I dare say I shall see you again before you start."

"Of course you will," said Lizzie. And then the two lovers were left together. They had met
once, at Lady Glencora's ball, since the quarrel at Fawn Court, and there, as though by mutual
forbearance, had not alluded to their troubles. Now he had come, especially to speak of the
matter that concerned them both so deeply. As long as Frank Greystock was in the room, his
work was comparatively easy, but he had known beforehand that he would not find it at all easy
should he be left alone with her. Lizzie began. "My lord," she said, "considering all that
has passed between us, you have been a truant."

"Yes;--I admit it--but--"

"With me, my lord, a fault admitted is a fault forgiven." Then she took her old seat on the
sofa, and he placed himself on the chair which Frank Greystock had occupied. He had not intended
to own a fault, and certainly not to accept forgiveness; but she had been too quick for him;
and now he could not find words by which to express himself. "In truth," she continued, "I
would always rather remember one kindness than a dozen omissions on the part of a friend."

"Lady Eustace, I have not willingly omitted anything."

"So be it. I will not give you the slightest excuse for saying that you have heard a reproach
from me. You have come at last, and you are welcome. Is that enough for you?"

He had much to say to her about the diamonds, and, when he was entering the room, he had not
a word to say to her about anything else. Since that, another subject had sprung up before
him. Whether he was, or was not, to regard himself as being at this moment engaged to marry
Lady Eustace, was a matter to him of much doubt;--but of this he was sure, that if she were
engaged to him as his wife, she ought not to be entertaining her cousin Frank Greystock down
at Portray Castle, unless she had some old lady, not only respectable in life, but high in
rank also, to see that everything was right. It was almost an insult to him that such a visit
should have been arranged without his sanction or cognizance. Of course, if he were bound by
no engagement,--and he had been persuaded by his mother and sister to wish that he were not
bound,--then the matter would be no affair of his. If, however, the diamonds were abandoned,
then the engagement was to be continued;--and in that case it was out of the question that
his elected bride should entertain another young man,--even though she was a widow and the
young man was her cousin. Of course, he should have spoken of the diamonds first; but the other
matter had obtruded itself upon him, and he was puzzled. "Is Mr. Greystock to accompany you
into Scotland?" he asked.

"Oh dear no. I go on the thirtieth of this month. I hardly know when he means to be there."

"He follows you to Portray?

"Yes;--he follows me, of course. 'The king himself has followed her, When she has gone before.'"
Lord Fawn did not remember the quotation, and was more puzzled than ever. "Frank will follow
me, just as the other shooting men will follow me."

"He goes direct to Portray Castle?"

"Neither directly nor indirectly. Just at present, Lord Fawn, I am in no mood to entertain
guests,--not even one that I love so well as my cousin Frank. The Portray mountains are somewhat
extensive, and at the back of them there is a little shooting-lodge."

"Oh, indeed," said Lord Fawn, feeling that he had better dash at once at the diamonds.

"If you, my lord, could manage to join us for a day, my cousin and his friend would, I am sure,
come over to the castle, so that you should not suffer from being left alone with me and Miss
Macnulty."

"At present it is impossible," said Lord Fawn;--and then he paused. "Lady Eustace, the position
in which you and I stand to each other is one not altogether free from trouble."

"You cannot say that it is of my making," she said, with a smile. "You once asked--what men
think a favour from me; and I granted it,--perhaps too easily."

"I know how greatly I am indebted to your goodness, Lady Eustace--" And then again he paused.

"Lord Fawn!"

"I trust you will believe that nothing can be further from me than that you should be harassed
by any conduct of mine."

"I am harassed, my lord."

"And so am I. I have learned that you are in possession of certain jewels which I cannot allow
to be held by my wife."

"I am not your wife, Lord Fawn." As she said this, she rose from her reclining posture and
sat erect.

"That is true. You are not. But you said you would be."

"Go on, sir."

"It was the pride of my life to think that I had attained to so much happiness. Then came this
matter of the diamonds."

"What business have you with my diamonds,--more than any other man?"

"Simply that I am told that they are not yours."

"Who tells you so?"

"Various people. Mr. Camperdown."

"If you, my lord, intend to take an attorney's word against mine, and that on a matter as to
which no one but myself can know the truth, then you are not fit to be my husband. The diamonds
are my own, and should you and I become man and wife, they must remain so by special settlement.
While I choose to keep them they will be mine,--to do with them as I please. It will be my
pleasure, when my boy marries, to hang them round his bride's neck." She carried herself well,
and spoke her words with dignity.

"What I have got to say is this," began Lord Fawn;--"I must consider our engagement as at an
end unless you will give them up to Mr. Camperdown."

"I will not give them up to Mr. Camperdown."

"Then,--then,--then,--"

"And I make bold to tell you, Lord Fawn, that you are not behaving to me like a man of honour.
I shall now leave the matter in the hands of my cousin, Mr. Greystock." Then she sailed out
of the room, and Lord Fawn was driven to escape from the house as he might. He stood about
the room for five minutes with his hat in his hand, and then walked down and let himself out
of the front door.

CHAPTER XX

The Diamonds Become Troublesome

The thirtieth of July came round, and Lizzie was prepared for her journey down to Scotland.
She was to be accompanied by Miss Macnulty and her own maid and her own servants, and to travel,
of course, like a grand lady. She had not seen Lord Fawn since the meeting recorded in the
last chapter, but had seen her cousin Frank nearly every other day. He, after much consideration,
had written a long letter to Lord Fawn, in which he had given that nobleman to understand that
some explanation was required as to conduct which Frank described as being to him "at present
unintelligible." He then went, at considerable length, into the matter of the diamonds, with
the object of proving that Lord Fawn could have no possible right to interfere in the matter.
And though he had from the first wished that Lizzie would give up the trinket, he made various
points in her favour. Not only had they been given to his cousin by her late husband,--but
even had they not been so given, they would have been hers by will. Sir Florian had left her
everything that was within the walls of Portray Castle, and the diamonds had been at Portray
at the time of Sir Florian's death. Such was Frank's statement,--untrue indeed, but believed
by him to be true. This was one of Lizzie's lies, forged as soon as she understood that some
subsidiary claim might be made upon them on the ground that they formed a portion of property
left by will away from her;--some claim subsidiary to the grand claim, that the necklace was
a family heirloom. Lord Fawn was not in the least shaken in his conviction that Lizzie had
behaved, and was behaving, badly, and that, therefore, he had better get rid of her; but he
knew that he must be very wary in the reasons he would give for jilting her. He wrote, therefore,
a very short note to Greystock, promising that any explanation needed should be given as soon
as circumstances should admit of his forming a decision. In the meantime, the 30th of July
came, and Lady Eustace was ready for her journey.

There is, or there was, a train leaving London for Carlisle at 11 a.m., by which Lizzie proposed
to travel, so that she might sleep in that city and go on through Dumfries to Portray the next
morning. This was her scheme; but there was another part of her scheme as to which she had
felt much doubt. Should she leave the diamonds, or should she take them with her? The iron
box in which they were kept was small, and so far portable that a strong man might carry it
without much trouble. Indeed, Lizzie could move it from one part of the room to the other,
and she had often done so. But it was so heavy that it could not be taken with her without
attracting attention. The servant would know what it was, and the porter would know, and Miss
Macnulty would know. That her own maid should know was a matter of course; but even to her
own maid the journey of the jewels would be remarkable because of the weight of the box, whereas
if they went with her other jewels in her dressing-case, there would be nothing remarkable.
She might even have taken them in her pocket,--had she dared. But she did not dare. Though
she was intelligent and courageous, she was wonderfully ignorant as to what might and what
might not be done for the recovery of the necklace by Mr. Camperdown. She did not dare to take
them without the iron box, and at last she decided that the box should go. At a little after
ten, her own carriage,--the job-carriage, which was now about to perform its last journey in
her service,--was at the door, and a cab was there for the servants. The luggage was brought
down, and with the larger boxes was brought the iron case with the necklace. The servant, certainly
making more of the weight than he need have done, deposited it as a foot-stool for Lizzie,
who then seated herself, and was followed by Miss Macnulty. She would have it placed in the
same way beneath her feet in the railway carriage, and again brought into her room at the Carlisle
hotel. What though the porter did know! There was nothing illegal in travelling about with
a heavy iron box full of diamonds, and the risk would be less this way, she thought, than were
she to leave them behind her in London. The house in Mount Street, which she had taken for
the season, was to be given up; and whom could she trust in London? Her very bankers, she feared,
would have betrayed her, and given up her treasure to Mr. Camperdown. As for Messrs. Harter
and Benjamin, she felt sure that they would be bribed by Mr. Camperdown. She once thought of
asking her cousin to take the charge of them, but she could not bring herself to let them out
of her own hands. Ten thousand pounds! If she could only sell them and get the money, from
what a world of trouble would she be relieved. And the sale, for another reason, would have
been convenient; for Lady Eustace was already a little in debt. But she could not sell them,
and therefore when she got into the carriage there was the box under her feet.

At that very moment who should appear on the pavement, standing between the carriage and the
house-door, but Mr. Camperdown! And with Mr. Camperdown there was another man,--a very suspicious-looking
man,--whom Lizzie at once took to be a detective officer of police. "Lady Eustace!" said Mr.
Camperdown, taking off his hat. Lizzie bowed across Miss Macnulty, and endeavoured to restrain
the tell-tale blood from flying to her cheeks. "I believe," said Mr. Camperdown, "that you
are now starting for Scotland."

"We are, Mr. Camperdown;--and we are very late."

"Could you allow me two minutes' conversation with you in the house?"

"Oh dear, no. We are late, I tell you. What a time you have chosen for coming, Mr. Camperdown!"

"It is an awkward hour, Lady Eustace. I only heard this morning that you were going so soon,
and it is imperative that I should see you."

"Had you not better write, Mr. Camperdown?"

"You will never answer my letters, madam."

"I--I--I really cannot see you now. William, the coachman must drive on. We cannot allow ourselves
to lose the train. I am really very sorry, Mr. Camperdown, but we must not lose the train."

"Lady Eustace," said Mr. Camperdown, putting his hand on the carriage-door, and so demeaning
himself that the coachman did not dare to drive on, "I must ask you a question." He spoke in
a low voice, but he was speaking across Miss Macnulty. That lady, therefore, heard him, and
so did William, the servant, who was standing close to the door. "I must insist on knowing
where are the Eustace diamonds." Lizzie felt the box beneath her feet, and, without showing
that she did so, somewhat widened her drapery.

"I can tell you nothing now. William, make the coachman drive on."

"If you will not answer me, I must tell you that I shall be driven in the execution of my duty
to obtain a search-warrant, in order that they may be placed in proper custody. They are not
your property, and must be taken out of your hands."

Lizzie looked at the suspicious man with a frightened gaze. The suspicious man was, in fact,
a very respectable clerk in Mr. Camperdown's employment, but Lizzie for a moment felt that
the search was about to begin at once. She had hardly understood the threat, and thought that
the attorney was already armed with the powers of which he spoke. She glanced for a moment
at Miss Macnulty, and then at the servant. Would they betray her? If they chose to use force
to her, the box certainly might be taken from her. "I know I shall lose the train," she said.
"I know I shall. I must insist that you let my servant drive on." There was now a little crowd
of a dozen persons on the pavement, and there was nothing to cover her diamonds but the skirt
of her travelling-dress.

"Are they in this house, Lady Eustace?"

"Why doesn't he go on?" shouted Lizzie. "You have no right, sir, to stop me. I won't be stopped."

"Or have you got them with you?"

"I shall answer no questions. You have no right to treat me in this way."

"Then I shall be forced, on behalf of the family, to obtain a search-warrant, both here and
in Ayrshire, and proceedings will be taken also against your ladyship personally." So saying,
Mr. Camperdown withdrew, and at last the carriage was driven on.

As it happened, there was time enough for catching the train,--and to spare. The whole affair
in Mount Street had taken less than ten minutes. But the effect upon Lizzie was very severe.
For a while she could not speak, and at last she burst out into hysteric tears,--not a sham
fit,--but a true convulsive agony of sobbing. All the world of Mount Street, including her
own servants, had heard the accusation against her. During the whole morning she had been wishing
that she had never seen the diamonds; but now it was almost impossible that she should part
with them. And yet they were like a load upon her chest, a load as heavy as though she were
compelled to sit with the iron box on her lap day and night. In her sobbing she felt the thing
under her feet, and knew that she could not get rid of it. She hated the box, and yet she must
cling to it now. She was thoroughly ashamed of the box, and yet she must seem to take a pride
in it. She was horribly afraid of the box, and yet she must keep it in her own very bed-room.
And what should she say about the box now to Miss Macnulty, who sat by her side, stiff and
scornful, offering her smelling-bottles, but not offering her sympathy? "My dear," she said
at last, "that horrid man has quite upset me."

"I don't wonder that you should be upset," said Miss Macnulty.

"And so unjust, too,--so false,--so--so--so--. They are my own as much as that umbrella is
yours, Miss Macnulty."

"I don't know," said Miss Macnulty.

"But I tell you," said Lizzie.

"What I mean is, that it is such a pity there should be a doubt."

"There is no doubt," said Lizzie;--"how dare you say there is a doubt? My cousin, Mr. Greystock,
says that there is not the slightest doubt. He is a barrister, and must know better than an
attorney like that Mr. Camperdown." By this time they were at the Euston Square station, and
then there was more trouble with the box. The footman struggled with it into the waiting-room,
and the porter struggled with it from the waiting-room to the carriage. Lizzie could not but
look at the porter as he carried it, and she felt sure that the man had been told of its contents
and was struggling with the express view of adding to her annoyance. The same thing happened
at Carlisle, where the box was carried up into Lizzie's bedroom by the footman, and where she
was convinced that her treasure had become the subject of conversation for the whole house.
In the morning people looked at her as she walked down the long platform with the box still
struggling before her. She almost wished that she had undertaken its carriage herself, as she
thought that even she could have managed with less outward show of effort. Her own servants
seemed to be in league against her, and Miss Macnulty had never before been so generally unpleasant.
Poor Miss Macnulty, who had a conscientious idea of doing her duty, and who always attempted
to give an adequate return for the bread she ate, could not so far overcome the effect of Mr.
Camperdown's visit as to speak on any subject without being stiff and hard. And she suffered,
too, from the box,--to such a degree that she turned over in her mind the thought of leaving
Lizzie, if any other possible home might be found for her. Who would willingly live with a
woman who always travelled about with a diamond necklace worth ten thousand pounds, locked
up in an iron safe,--and that necklace not her own property.

But at last Lady Eustace, and Miss Macnulty, and the servants,--and the iron box,--reached
Portray Castle in safety.

CHAPTER XXI

"Ianthe's Soul"

Lady Eustace had been rather cross on the journey down to Scotland, and had almost driven the
unfortunate Macnulty to think that Lady Linlithgow or the workhouse would be better than this
young tyrant; but on her arrival at her own house she was for awhile all smiles and kindness.
During the journey she had been angry without thought, but was almost entitled to be excused
for her anger. Could Miss Macnulty have realised the amount of oppression inflicted on her
patroness by the box of diamonds she would have forgiven anything. Hitherto there had been
some secrecy, or at any rate some privacy attached to the matter; but now that odious lawyer
had discussed the matter aloud, in the very streets, in the presence of the servants, and Lady
Eustace had felt that it was discussed also by every porter on the railway from London down
to Troon, the station in Scotland at which her own carriage met her to take her to her own
castle. The night at Carlisle had been terrible to her, and the diamonds had never been for
a moment off her mind. Perhaps the worst of it all was that her own man-servant and maid-servant
had heard the claim which had been so violently made by Mr. Camperdown. There are people, in
that respect very fortunately circumstanced, whose servants, as a matter of course, know all
their affairs, have an interest in their concerns, sympathise with their demands, feel their
wants, and are absolutely at one with them. But in such cases the servants are really known,
and are almost as completely a part of the family as the sons and daughters. There may be disruptions
and quarrels; causes may arise for ending the existing condition of things; but while this
condition lasts, the servants in such households are, for the most part, only too well inclined
to fight the battles of their employers. Mr. Binns, the butler, would almost foam at the mouth
if it were suggested to him that the plate at Silvercup Hall was not the undoubted property
of the old squire; and Mrs. Pouncebox could not be made to believe, by any amount of human
evidence, that the jewels which her lady has worn for the last fifteen years are not her ladyship's
very own. Binns would fight for the plate, and so would Pouncebox for the jewels, almost till
they were cut to pieces. The preservation of these treasures on behalf of those who paid them
their wages and fed them, who occasionally scolded them, but always succoured them, would be
their point of honour. No torture would get the key of the cellar from Binns; no threats extract
from Pouncebox a secret of the toilet. But poor Lizzie Eustace had no Binns and no Pouncebox.
They are plants that grow slowly. There was still too much of the mushroom about Lady Eustace
to permit of her possessing such treasures. Her footman was six feet high, was not bad looking,
and was called Thomas. She knew no more about him, and was far too wise to expect sympathy
from him, or other aid than the work for which she paid him. Her own maid was somewhat nearer
to her; but not much nearer. The girl's name was Patience Crabstick, and she could do hair
well. Lizzie knew but little more of her than that.

Lizzie considered herself still to be engaged to be married to Lord Fawn,--but there was no
sympathy to be had in that quarter. Frank Greystock might be induced to sympathise with her;--but
hardly after the fashion which Lizzie desired. And then sympathy in that direction would be
so dangerous should she decide upon going on with the Fawn marriage. For the present she had
quarrelled with Lord Fawn;--but the very bitterness of that quarrel, and the decision with
which her betrothed had declared his intention of breaking off the match, made her the more
resolute that she would marry him. During her journey to Portray she had again determined that
he should be her husband; and, if so, advanced sympathy,--sympathy that would be pleasantly
tender with her cousin Frank, would be dangerous. She would be quite willing to accept even
Miss Macnulty's sympathy, if that humble lady would give it to her of the kind she wanted.
She declared to herself that she could pour herself out on Miss Macnulty's bosom, and mingle
her tears even with Miss Macnulty's, if only Miss Macnulty would believe in her. If Miss Macnulty
would be enthusiastic about the jewels, enthusiastic as to the wickedness of Lord Fawn, enthusiastic
in praising Lizzie herself, Lizzie,--so she told herself,--would have showered all the sweets
of female friendship even on Miss Macnulty's head. But Miss Macnulty was as hard as a deal
board. She did as she was bidden, thereby earning her bread. But there was no tenderness in
her;--no delicacy;--no feeling;--no comprehension. It was thus that Lady Eustace judged her
humble companion; and in one respect she judged her rightly. Miss Macnulty did not believe
in Lady Eustace, and was not sufficiently gifted to act up to a belief which she did not entertain.

Poor Lizzie! The world, in judging of people who are false and bad and selfish and prosperous
to outward appearances, is apt to be hard upon them, and to forget the punishments which generally
accompany such faults. Lizzie Eustace was very false and bad and selfish,--and, we may say,
very prosperous also; but in the midst of all she was thoroughly uncomfortable. She was never
at ease. There was no green spot in her life with which she could be contented. And though,
after a fashion, she knew herself to be false and bad, she was thoroughly convinced that she
was ill-used by everybody about her. She was being very badly treated by Lord Fawn;--but she
flattered herself that she would be able to make Lord Fawn know more of her character before
she had done with him.

Portray Castle was really a castle,--not simply a country mansion so called, but a stone edifice
with battlements and a round tower at one corner, and a gate which looked as if it might have
had a portcullis, and narrow windows in a portion of it, and a cannon mounted upon a low roof,
and an excavation called the moat,--but which was now a fantastic and somewhat picturesque
garden,--running round two sides of it. In very truth, though a portion of the castle was undoubtedly
old, and had been built when strength was needed for defence and probably for the custody of
booty,--the battlements, and the round tower, and the awe-inspiring gateway had all been added
by one of the late Sir Florians. But the castle looked like a castle, and was interesting.
As a house it was not particularly eligible, the castle form of domestic architecture being
exigeant in its nature, and demanding that space, which in less ambitious houses can be applied
to comfort, shall be surrendered to magnificence. There was a great hall, and a fine dining-room
with plate-glass windows looking out upon the sea; but the other sitting-rooms were insignificant,
and the bedrooms were here and there, and were for the most part small and dark. That, however,
which Lizzie had appropriated to her own use was a grand chamber, looking also out upon the
open sea.

The castle stood upon a bluff of land, with a fine prospect of the Firth of Clyde, and with
a distant view of the Isle of Arran. When the air was clear, as it often is clear there, the
Arran hills could be seen from Lizzie's window, and she was proud of talking of the prospect.
In other respects, perhaps, the castle was somewhat desolate. There were a few stunted trees
around it, but timber had not prospered there. There was a grand kitchen garden,--or rather
a kitchen garden which had been intended to be grand;--but since Lizzie's reign had been commenced,
the grandeur had been neglected. Grand kitchen gardens are expensive, and Lizzie had at once
been firm in reducing the under-gardeners from five men to one and a boy. The head-gardener
had of course left her at once; but that had not broken her heart, and she had hired a modest
man at a guinea a week instead of a scientific artist, who was by no means modest, with a hundred
and twenty pounds a year and coals, house, milk, and all other horticultural luxuries. Though
Lizzie was prosperous and had a fine income, she was already aware that she could not keep
up a town and country establishment and be a rich woman on four thousand a year. There was
a flower garden and small shrubbery within the so-called moat; but, otherwise, the grounds
of Portray Castle were not alluring. The place was sombre, exposed, and, in winter, very cold;
and, except that the expanse of sea beneath the hill on which stood the castle was fine and
open, it had no great claim to praise on the score of scenery. Behind the castle, and away
from the sea, the low mountains belonging to the estate stretched for some eight or ten miles;
and towards the further end of them, where stood a shooting-lodge, called always The Cottage,
the landscape became rough and grand. It was in this cottage that Frank Greystock was to be
sheltered with his friend, when he came down to shoot what Lady Eustace had called her three
annual grouse.

She ought to have been happy and comfortable. There will, of course, be some to say that a
young widow should not be happy and comfortable,--that she should be weeping her lost lord,
and subject to the desolation of bereavement. But as the world goes now, young widows are not
miserable; and there is, perhaps, a growing tendency in society to claim from them year by
year still less of any misery that may be avoidable. Suttee propensities of all sorts, from
burning alive down to bombazine and hideous forms of clothing, are becoming less and less popular
among the nations, and women are beginning to learn that, let what misfortunes will come upon
them, it is well for them to be as happy as their nature will allow them to be. A woman may
thoroughly respect her husband, and mourn him truly, honestly, with her whole heart, and yet
enjoy thoroughly the good things which he has left behind for her use. It was not, at any rate,
sorrow for the lost Sir Florian that made Lady Eustace uncomfortable. She had her child. She
had her income. She had her youth and beauty. She had Portray Castle. She had a new lover,--and,
if she chose to be quit of him, not liking him well enough for the purpose, she might undoubtedly
have another whom she would like better. She had hitherto been thoroughly successful in her
life. And yet she was unhappy. What was it that she wanted?

She had been a very clever child,--a clever, crafty child; and now she was becoming a clever
woman. Her craft remained with her; but so keen was her outlook upon the world, that she was
beginning to perceive that craft, let it be never so crafty, will in the long run miss its
own object. She actually envied the simplicity of Lucy Morris, for whom she delighted to find
evil names, calling her demure, a prig, a sly puss, and so on. But she could see,--or half
see,--that Lucy with her simplicity was stronger than was she with her craft. She had nearly
captivated Frank Greystock with her wiles, but without any wiles Lucy had captivated him altogether.
And a man captivated by wiles was only captivated for a time, whereas a man won by simplicity
would be won for ever,--if he himself were worth the winning. And this, too, she felt,--that
let her success be what it might, she could not be happy unless she could win a man's heart.
She had won Sir Florian's, but that had been but for an hour,--for a month or two. And then
Sir Florian had never really won hers. Could not she be simple? Could not she act simplicity
so well that the thing acted should be as powerful as the thing itself;--perhaps even more
powerful? Poor Lizzie Eustace! In thinking over all this, she saw a great deal. It was wonderful
that she should see so much and tell herself so many home truths. But there was one truth she
could not see, and therefore could not tell it to herself. She had not a heart to give. It
had become petrified during those lessons of early craft in which she had taught herself how
to get the better of Messrs. Harter and Benjamin, of Sir Florian Eustace, of Lady Linlithgow,
and of Mr. Camperdown.

Her ladyship had now come down to her country house, leaving London and all its charms before
the end of the season, actuated by various motives. In the first place, the house in Mount
Street was taken furnished, by the month, and the servants were hired after the same fashion,
and the horses jobbed. Lady Eustace was already sufficiently intimate with her accounts to
know that she would save two hundred pounds by not remaining another month or three weeks in
London, and sufficiently observant of her own affairs to have perceived that such saving was
needed. And then it appeared to her that her battle with Lord Fawn could be better fought from
a distance than at close quarters. London, too, was becoming absolutely distasteful to her.
There were many things there that tended to make her unhappy, and so few that she could enjoy!
She was afraid of Mr. Camperdown, and ever on the rack lest some dreadful thing should come
upon her in respect of the necklace,--some horrible paper served upon her from a magistrate,
ordering her appearance at Newgate, or perhaps before the Lord Chancellor, or a visit from
policemen, who would be empowered to search for and carry off the iron box. And then there
was so little in her London life to gratify her! It is pleasant to win in a fight;--but to
be always fighting is not pleasant. Except in those moments, few and far between, in which
she was alone with her cousin Frank,--and perhaps in those other moments in which she wore
her diamonds,--she had but little in London that she enjoyed. She still thought that a time
would come when it would be otherwise. Under these influences she had actually made herself
believe that she was sighing for the country, and for solitude; for the wide expanse of her
own bright waves,--as she had called them,--and for the rocks of dear Portray. She had told
Miss Macnulty and Augusta Fawn that she thirsted for the breezes of Ayrshire, so that she might
return to her books and her thoughts. Amidst the whirl of London it was impossible either to
read or to think. And she believed it too,--herself. She so believed it, that on the first
morning of her arrival she took a little volume in her pocket, containing Shelley's "Queen
Mab," and essayed to go down upon the rocks. She had actually breakfasted at nine, and was
out on the sloping grounds below the castle before ten, having made some boast to Miss Macnulty
about the morning air.

She scrambled down,--not very far down, but a little way beneath the garden gate, to a spot
on which a knob of rock cropped out from the scanty herbage of the incipient cliff. Fifty yards
lower the real rocks began; and, though the real rocks were not very rocky, not precipitous
or even bold, and were partially covered with salt-fed mosses down almost to the sea, nevertheless
they justified her in talking about her rock-bound shore. The shore was hers,--for her life,
and it was rock-bound. This knob she had espied from her windows;--and, indeed, had been thinking
of it for the last week, as a place appropriate to solitude and Shelley. She had stood on it
before, and had stretched her arms with enthusiasm towards the just-visible mountains of Arran.
On that occasion the weather, perhaps, had been cool; but now a blazing sun was overhead, and
when she had been seated half a minute, and "Queen Mab" had been withdrawn from her pocket,
she found that it would not do. It would not do, even with the canopy she could make for herself
with her parasol. So she stood up and looked about herself for shade;--for shade in some spot
in which she could still look out upon "her dear wide ocean, with its glittering smile." For
it was thus that she would talk about the mouth of the Clyde. Shelter near her there was none.
The scrubby trees lay nearly half a mile to the right,--and up the hill, too. She had once
clambered down to the actual shore, and might do so again. But she doubted that there would
be shelter even there; and the clambering up on that former occasion had been a nuisance, and
would be a worse nuisance now. Thinking of all this, and feeling the sun keenly, she gradually
retraced her steps to the garden within the moat, and seated herself, Shelley in hand, within
the summer-house. The bench was narrow, hard, and broken; and there were some snails which
discomposed her;--but, nevertheless, she would make the best of it. Her darling "Queen Mab"
must be read without the coarse, inappropriate, every-day surroundings of a drawing-room; and
it was now manifest to her that, unless she could get up much earlier in the morning, or come
out to her reading after sunset, the knob of rock would not avail her.

She began her reading, resolved that she would enjoy her poetry in spite of the narrow seat.
She had often talked of "Queen Mab," and perhaps she thought she had read it. This, however,
was in truth her first attempt at that work. "How wonderful is Death! Death and his brother,
Sleep!" Then she half-closed the volume, and thought that she enjoyed the idea. Death,--and
his brother Sleep! She did not know why they should be more wonderful than Action, or Life,
or Thought;--but the words were of a nature which would enable her to remember them, and they
would be good for quoting. "Sudden arose Ianthe's soul; it stood all-beautiful in naked purity."
The name of Ianthe suited her exactly. And the antithesis conveyed to her mind by naked purity
struck her strongly, and she determined to learn the passage by heart. Eight or nine lines
were printed separately, like a stanza, and the labour would not be great, and the task, when
done, would be complete. Which was instinct with beauty,--the stain or the soul, she did not
stop to inquire, and may be excused for not understanding. "Ah,"--she exclaimed to herself,
"how true it is; how one feels it; how it comes home to one!--'Sudden arose Ianthe's soul!'"
And then she walked about the garden, repeating the words to herself, and almost forgetting
the heat. "'Each stain of earthliness had passed away.' Ha;--yes. They will pass away, and
become instinct with beauty and grace." A dim idea came upon her that when this happy time
should arrive, no one would claim her necklace from her, and that the man at the stables would
not be so disagreeably punctual in sending in his bill. "'All-beautiful in naked purity!'"
What a tawdry world was this, in which clothes and food and houses are necessary! How perfectly
that boy-poet had understood it all! "'Immortal amid ruin!'" She liked the idea of the ruin
almost as well as that of the immortality, and the stains quite as well as the purity. As immortality
must come, and as stains were instinct with grace, why be afraid of ruin? But then, if people
go wrong,--at least women,--they are not asked out any where! "'Sudden arose Ianthe's soul;
it stood all-beautiful--'" And so the piece was learned, and Lizzie felt that she had devoted
her hour to poetry in a quite rapturous manner. At any rate she had a bit to quote; and though
in truth she did not understand the exact bearing of the image, she had so studied her gestures,
and so modulated her voice, that she knew that she could be effective. She did not then care
to carry her reading further, but returned with the volume into the house. Though the passage
about Ianthe's soul comes very early in the work, she was now quite familiar with the poem,
and when, in after days, she spoke of it as a thing of beauty that she had made her own by
long study, she actually did not know that she was lying. As she grew older, however, she quickly
became wiser, and was aware that in learning one passage of a poem it is expedient to select
one in the middle, or at the end. The world is so cruelly observant now-a-days, that even men
and women who have not themselves read their "Queen Mab" will know from what part of the poem
a morsel is extracted, and will not give you credit for a page beyond that from which your
passage comes.

After lunch Lizzie invited Miss Macnulty to sit at the open window of the drawing-room and
look out upon the "glittering waves." In giving Miss Macnulty her due, we must acknowledge
that, though she owned no actual cleverness herself, had no cultivated tastes, read but little,
and that little of a colourless kind, and thought nothing of her hours but that she might get
rid of them and live,--yet she had a certain power of insight, and could see a thing. Lizzie
Eustace was utterly powerless to impose upon her. Such as Lizzie was, Miss Macnulty was willing
to put up with her and accept her bread. The people whom she had known had been either worthless,--as
had been her own father, or cruel,--like Lady Linlithgow, or false,--as was Lady Eustace. Miss
Macnulty knew that worthlessness, cruelty, and falseness had to be endured by such as she.
And she could bear them without caring much about them;--not condemning them, even within her
own heart, very heavily. But she was strangely deficient in this,--that she could not call
these qualities by other names, even to the owners of them. She was unable to pretend to believe
Lizzie's rhapsodies. It was hardly conscience or a grand spirit of truth that actuated her,
as much as a want of the courage needed for lying. She had not had the face to call old Lady
Linlithgow kind, and therefore old Lady Linlithgow had turned her out of the house. When Lady
Eustace called on her for sympathy, she had not courage enough to dare to attempt the bit of
acting which would be necessary for sympathetic expression. She was like a dog or a child,
and was unable not to be true. Lizzie was longing for a little mock sympathy,--was longing
to show off her Shelley, and was very kind to Miss Macnulty when she got the poor lady into
the recess of the window. "This is nice;--is it not?" she said, as she spread her hand out
through the open space towards the "wide expanse of glittering waves."

"Very nice,--only it glares so," said Miss Macnulty.

"Ah, I love the full warmth of the real summer. With me it always seems that the sun is needed
to bring to true ripeness the fruit of the heart." Nevertheless she had been much troubled
both by the heat and by the midges when she tried to sit on the stone. "I always think of those
few glorious days which I passed with my darling Florian at Naples;--days too glorious because
they were so few." Now Miss Macnulty knew some of the history of those days and of their glory,--and
knew also how the widow had borne her loss.

"I suppose the bay of Naples is fine," she said.

"It is not only the bay. There are scenes there which ravish you, only it is necessary that
there should be some one with you that can understand you. 'Soul of Ianthe!'" she said, meaning
to apostrophise that of the deceased Sir Florian. "You have read 'Queen Mab'?"

"I don't know that I ever did. If I have, I have forgotten it."

"Ah,--you should read it. I know nothing in the English language that brings home to one so
often one's own best feelings and aspirations. 'It stands all-beautiful in naked purity,'"
she continued, still alluding to poor Sir Florian's soul. "'Instinct with inexpressible beauty
and grace, Each stain of earthliness had passed away.' I can see him now in all his manly beauty,
as we used to sit together by the hour, looking over the waters. Oh, Julia, the thing itself
has gone,--the earthly reality; but the memory of it will live for ever!"

"He was a very handsome man, certainly," said Miss Macnulty, finding herself forced to say
something.

"I see him now," she went on, still gazing out upon the shining water. "'It reassumed its native
dignity, and stood Primeval amid ruin.' Is not that a glorious idea, gloriously worded?" She
had forgotten one word and used a wrong epithet; but it sounded just as well. Primeval seemed
to her to be a very poetical word.

"To tell the truth," said Miss Macnulty, "I never understand poetry when it is quoted unless
I happen to know the passage beforehand. I think I'll go away from this, for the light is too
much for my poor old eyes." Certainly Miss Macnulty had fallen into a profession for which
she was not suited.

CHAPTER XXII

Lady Eustace Procures a Pony for the Use of Her Cousin

Lady Eustace could make nothing of Miss Macnulty in the way of sympathy, and could not bear
her disappointment with patience. It was hardly to be expected that she should do so. She paid
a great deal for Miss Macnulty. In a moment of rash generosity, and at a time when she hardly
knew what money meant, she had promised Miss Macnulty seventy pounds for the first year, and
seventy for the second, should the arrangement last longer than a twelvemonth. The second year
had been now commenced, and Lady Eustace was beginning to think that seventy pounds was a great
deal of money when so very little was given in return. Lady Linlithgow had paid her dependant
no fixed salary. And then there was the lady's "keep," and first-class travelling when they
went up and down to Scotland, and cab-fares in London when it was desirable that Miss Macnulty
should absent herself. Lizzie, reckoning all up, and thinking that for so much her friend ought
to be ready to discuss Ianthe's soul, or any other kindred subject, at a moment's warning,
would become angry, and would tell herself that she was being swindled out of her money. She
knew how necessary it was that she should have some companion at the present emergency of her
life, and therefore could not at once send Miss Macnulty away; but she would sometimes become
very cross, and would tell poor Macnulty that she was--a fool. Upon the whole, however, to
be called a fool was less objectionable to Miss Macnulty than were demands for sympathy which
she did not know how to give.

Those first ten days of August went very slowly with Lady Eustace. "Queen Mab" got itself poked
away, and was heard of no more. But there were other books. A huge box full of novels had come
down, and Miss Macnulty was a great devourer of novels. If Lady Eustace would talk to her about
the sorrows of the poorest heroine that ever saw her lover murdered before her eyes, and then
come to life again with ten thousand pounds a year,--for a period of three weeks, or till another
heroine, who had herself been murdered, obliterated the former horrors from her plastic mind,--Miss
Macnulty could discuss the catastrophe with the keenest interest. And Lizzie, finding herself
to be, as she told herself, unstrung, fell also into novel-reading. She had intended during
this vacant time to master the "Faery Queen;" but the "Faery Queen" fared even worse than "Queen
Mab;"--and the studies of Portray Castle were confined to novels. For poor Macnulty, if she
could only be left alone, this was well enough. To have her meals, and her daily walk, and
her fill of novels, and to be left alone, was all that she asked of the gods. But it was not
so with Lady Eustace. She asked much more than that, and was now thoroughly discontented with
her own idleness. She was sure that she could have read Spenser from sunrise to sundown, with
no other break than an hour or two given to Shelley,--if only there had been some one to sympathise
with her in her readings. But there was no one, and she was very cross. Then there came a letter
to her from her cousin,--which for that morning brought some life back to the castle. "I have
seen Lord Fawn," said the letter, "and I have also seen Mr. Camperdown. As it would be very
hard to explain what took place at these interviews by letter, and as I shall be at Portray
Castle on the 20th,--I will not make the attempt. We shall go down by the night train, and
I will get over to you as soon as I have dressed and had my breakfast. I suppose I can find
some kind of a pony for the journey. The 'we' consists of myself and my friend, Mr. Herriot,--a
man whom I think you will like, if you will condescend to see him, though he is a barrister
like myself. You need express no immediate condescension in his favour, as I shall of course
come over alone on Wednesday morning. Yours always affectionately, F. G."

The letter she received on the Sunday morning, and as the Wednesday named for Frank's coming
was the next Wednesday, and was close at hand, she was in rather a better humour than she had
displayed since the poets had failed her. "What a blessing it will be," she said, "to have
somebody to speak to!"

This was not complimentary, but Miss Macnulty did not want compliments. "Yes, indeed," she
said. "Of course you will be glad to see your cousin."

"I shall be glad to see anything in the shape of a man. I declare that I have felt almost inclined
to ask the minister from Craigie to elope with me."

"He has got seven children," said Miss Macnulty.

"Yes, poor man, and a wife, and not more than enough to live upon. I daresay he would have
come. By-the-bye, I wonder whether there's a pony about the place."

"A pony!" Miss Macnulty of course supposed that it was needed for the purpose of the suggested
elopement.

"Yes;--I suppose you know what a pony is? Of course there ought to be a shooting pony at the
cottage for these men. My poor head has so many things to work upon that I had forgotten it;
and you're never any good at thinking of things."

"I didn't know that gentlemen wanted ponies for shooting."

"I wonder what you do know? Of course there must be a pony."

"I suppose you'll want two?"

"No, I sha'n't. You don't suppose that men always go riding about. But I want one. What had
I better do?" Miss Macnulty suggested that Gowran should be consulted. Now, Gowran was the
steward and bailiff and manager and factotum about the place, who bought a cow or sold one
if occasion required, and saw that nobody stole anything, and who knew the boundaries of the
farms, and all about the tenants, and looked after the pipes when frost came, and was an honest,
domineering, hard-working, intelligent Scotchman, who had been brought up to love the Eustaces,
and who hated his present mistress with all his heart. He did not leave her service, having
an idea in his mind that it was now the great duty of his life to save Portray from her ravages.
Lizzie fully returned the compliment of the hatred, and was determined to rid herself of Andy
Gowran's services as soon as possible. He had been called Andy by the late Sir Florian, and,
though every one else about the place called him Mr. Gowran, Lady Eustace thought it became
her, as the man's mistress, to treat him as he had been treated by the late master. So she
called him Andy. But she was resolved to get rid of him,--as soon as she should dare. There
were things which it was essential that somebody about the place should know, and no one knew
them but Mr. Gowran. Every servant in the castle might rob her, were it not for the protection
afforded by Mr. Gowran. In that affair of the garden it was Mr. Gowran who had enabled her
to conquer the horticultural Leviathan who had oppressed her, and who, in point of wages, had
been a much bigger man than Mr. Gowran himself. She trusted Mr. Gowran, and hated him,--whereas
Mr. Gowran hated her, and did not trust her. "I believe you think that nothing can be done
at Portray except by that man," said Lady Eustace.

"He'll know how much you ought to pay for the pony."

"Yes,--and get some brute not fit for my cousin to ride, on purpose, perhaps, to break his neck."

"Then I should ask Mr. Macallum, the postmaster of Troon, for I have seen three or four very
quiet-looking ponies standing in the carts at his door."

"Macnulty, if there ever was an idiot you are one!" said Lady Eustace, throwing up her hands.
"To think that I should get a pony for my cousin Frank out of one of the mail carts."

"I daresay I am an idiot," said Miss Macnulty, resuming her novel.

Lady Eustace was, of course, obliged to have recourse to Gowran, to whom she applied on the
Monday morning. Not even Lizzie Eustace, on behalf of her cousin Frank, would have dared to
disturb Mr. Gowran with considerations respecting a pony on the Sabbath. On the Monday morning
she found Mr. Gowran superintending four boys and three old women, who were making a bit of
her ladyship's hay on the ground above the castle. The ground about the castle was poor and
exposed, and her ladyship's hay was apt to be late. "Andy," she said, "I shall want to get
a pony for the gentlemen who are coming to the Cottage. It must be there by Tuesday evening."

"A pownie, my leddie?"

"Yes;--a pony. I suppose a pony may be purchased in Ayrshire,--though of all places in the
world it seems to have the fewest of the comforts of life."

"Them as find it like that, my leddie, needn't bide there."

"Never mind. You will have the kindness to have a pony purchased and put into the stables of
the Cottage on Tuesday afternoon. There are stables, no doubt."

"Oh, ay,--there's shelter, nae doot, for mair pownies than they'll ride. When the Cottage was
biggit, my leddie, there was nae cause for sparing nowt." Andy Gowran was continually throwing
her comparative poverty in poor Lizzie's teeth, and there was nothing he could do which displeased
her more.

"And I needn't spare my cousin the use of a pony," she said grandiloquently, but feeling as
she did so that she was exposing herself before the man. "You'll have the goodness to procure
one for him on Tuesday."

"But there ain't aits nor yet fother, nor nowt for bedding down. And wha's to tent the pownie?
There's mair in keeping a pownie than your leddyship thinks. It'll be a matter of auchteen
and saxpence a week,--will a pownie." Mr. Gowran, as he expressed his prudential scruples,
put a very strong emphasis indeed on the sixpence.

"Very well. Let it be so."

"And there'll be the beastie to buy, my leddie. He'll be a lump of money, my leddie. Pownies
ain't to be had for nowt in Ayrshire, as was ance, my leddie."

"Of course I must pay for him."

"He'll be a matter of ten pound, my leddie."

"Very well."

"Or may be twal; just as likely." And Mr. Gowran shook his head at his mistress in a most uncomfortable
way. It was not surprising that she should hate him.

"You must give the proper price,--of course."

"There ain't no proper prices for pownies,--as there is for jew'ls and sich like." If this
was intended for sarcasm upon Lady Eustace in regard to her diamonds, Mr. Gowran ought to have
been dismissed on the spot. In such a case no English jury would have given him his current
wages. "And he'll be to sell again, my leddie?"

"We shall see about that afterwards."

"Ye'll never let him eat his head off there a' the winter! He'll be to sell. And the gentles'll
ride him, may be, ance across the hillside, out and back. As to the grouse, they can't cotch
them with the pownie, for there ain't none to cotch." There had been two keepers on the mountains,--men
who were paid five or six shillings a week to look after the game in addition to their other
callings, and one of these had been sent away, actually in obedience to Gowran's advice;--so
that this blow was cruel and unmanly. He made it, too, as severe as he could by another shake
of his head.

"Do you mean to tell me that my cousin cannot be supplied with an animal to ride upon?"

"My leddie, I've said nowt o' the kind. There ain't no useful animal as I kens the name and
nature of as he can't have in Ayrshire,--for paying for it, my leddie;--horse, pownie, or ass,
just whichever you please, my leddie. But there'll be a seddle--"

"A what?"

There can be no doubt that Gowran purposely slurred the word so that his mistress should not
understand him. "Seddles don't come for nowt, my leddie, though it be Ayrshire."

"I don't understand what it is that you say, Andy."

"A seddle, my leddie,"--said he, shouting the word at her at the top of his voice,--"and a
briddle. I suppose as your leddyship's cousin don't ride bare-back up in Lunnon?"

"Of course there must be the necessary horse-furniture," said Lady Eustace, retiring to the
castle. Andy Gowran had certainly ill-used her, and she swore that she would have revenge.
Nor when she was informed on the Tuesday that an adequate pony had been hired for eighteen
pence a day, saddle, bridle, groom, and all included, was her heart at all softened towards
Mr. Gowran.

CHAPTER XXIII

Frank Greystock's First Visit to Portray

Had Frank Greystock known all that his cousin endured for his comfort, would he have been grateful?
Women, when they are fond of men, do think much of men's comfort in small matters, and men
are apt to take the good things provided almost as a matter of course. When Frank Greystock
and Herriot reached the cottage about nine o'clock in the morning, having left London over
night by the limited mail train, the pony at once presented itself to them. It was a little
shaggy, black beast, with a boy almost as shaggy as itself, but they were both good of their
kind. "Oh, you're the laddie with the pownie, are you?" said Frank, in answer to an announcement
made to him by the boy. He did at once perceive that Lizzie had taken notice of the word in
his note, in which he had suggested that some means of getting over to Portray would be needed,
and he learned from the fact that she was thinking of him and anxious to see him.

His friend was a man a couple of years younger than himself, who had hitherto achieved no success
at the Bar, but who was nevertheless a clever, diligent, well-instructed man. He was what the
world calls penniless, having an income from his father just sufficient to keep him like a
gentleman. He was not much known as a sportsman, his opportunities for shooting not having
been great; but he dearly loved the hills and fresh air, and the few grouse which were,--or
were not,--on Lady Eustace's mountains would go as far with him as they would with any man.
Before he had consented to come with Frank, he had especially inquired whether there was a
game-keeper, and it was not till he had been assured that there was no officer attached to
the estate worthy of such a name, that he had consented to come upon his present expedition.
"I don't clearly know what a gillie is," he said, in answer to one of Frank's explanations.
"If a gillie means a lad without any breeches on, I don't mind; but I couldn't stand a severe
man got up in well-made velveteens, who would see through my ignorance in a moment, and make
known by comment the fact that he had done so." Greystock had promised that there should be
no severity, and Herriot had come. Greystock brought with him two guns, two fishing-rods, a
man-servant, and a huge hamper from Fortnum and Mason's. Arthur Herriot, whom the attorneys
had not yet loved, brought some very thick boots, a pair of knickerbockers, together with Stone
and Toddy's "Digest of the Common Law." The best of the legal profession consists in this;--that
when you get fairly at work you may give over working. An aspirant must learn everything; but
a man may make his fortune at it, and know almost nothing. He may examine a witness with judgment,
see through a case with precision, address a jury with eloquence,--and yet be altogether ignorant
of law. But he must be believed to be a very pundit before he will get a chance of exercising
his judgment, his precision, or his eloquence. The men whose names are always in the newspapers
never look at their Stone and Toddy,--care for it not at all,--have their Stone and Toddy got
up for them by their juniors when cases require that reference shall be made to precedents.
But till that blessed time has come, a barrister who means success should carry his Stone and
Toddy with him everywhere. Greystock never thought of the law now, unless he had some special
case in hand; but Herriot could not afford to go out on his holiday without two volumes of
Stone and Toddy's Digest in his portmanteau.

"You won't mind being left alone for the first morning?" said Frank, as soon as they had finished
the contents of one of the pots from Fortnum and Mason.

"Not in the least. Stone and Toddy will carry me through."

"I'd go on the mountain if I were you, and get into a habit of steady loading."

"Perhaps I will take a turn,--just to find out how I feel in the knickerbockers. At what time
shall I dine if you don't come back?"

"I shall certainly be here to dinner," said Frank, "unless the pony fails me or I get lost
on the mountain." Then he started, and Herriot at once went to work on Stone and Toddy, with
a pipe in his mouth. He had travelled all night, and it is hardly necessary to say that in
five minutes he was fast asleep.

So also had Frank travelled all night, but the pony and the fresh air kept him awake. The boy
had offered to go with him, but that he had altogether refused;--and, therefore, to his other
cares was added that of finding his way. The sweep of the valleys, however, is long and not
abrupt, and he could hardly miss his road if he would only make one judicious turn through
a gap in a certain wall which lay half way between the cottage and the castle. He was thinking
of the work in hand, and he found the gap without difficulty. When through that he ascended
the hill for two miles, and then the sea was before him, and Portray Castle, lying, as it seemed
to him at that distance, close upon the sea-shore. "Upon my word, Lizzie has not done badly
for herself," he said almost aloud, as he looked down upon the fair sight beneath him, and
round upon the mountains, and remembered that, for her life at least, it was all hers, and
after her death would belong to her son. What more does any human being desire of such a property
than that?

He rode down to the great doorway,--the mountain track which fell on to the road about half
a mile from the castle having been plain enough, and there he gave up the pony into the hands
of no less a man than Mr. Gowran himself. Gowran had watched the pony coming down the mountain-side,
and had desired to see of what like was "her leddyship's" cousin. In telling the whole truth
of Mr. Gowran, it must be acknowledged that he thought that his late master had made a very
great mistake in the matter of his marriage. He could not imagine bad things enough of Lady
Eustace, and almost believed that she was not now, and hadn't been before her marriage, any
better than she should be. The name of Admiral Greystock, as having been the father of his
mistress, had indeed reached his ears; but Andy Gowran was a suspicious man, and felt no confidence
even in an admiral,--in regard to whom he heard nothing of his having, or having had, a wife.
"It's my fer-rm opeenion she's jist naebody--and waur," he had said more than once to his own
wife, nodding his head with great emphasis at the last word. He was very anxious, therefore,
to see "her leddyship's" cousin. Mr. Gowran thought that he knew a gentleman when he saw one.
He thought, also, that he knew a lady, and that he didn't see one when he was engaged with
his mistress. Cousin, indeed! "For the matter o' that, ony man that comes the way may be ca'ed
a coosin." So Mr. Gowran was on the grand sweep before the garden gate, and took the pony from
Frank's hand. "Is Lady Eustace at home?" Frank asked. Mr. Gowran perceived that Frank was a
gentleman, and was disappointed. And Frank didn't come as a man comes who calls himself by
a false name, and pretends to be an honest cousin when in fact he is something,--oh, ever so
wicked! Mr. Gowran, who was a stern moralist, was certainly disappointed at Frank's appearance.

Lizzie was in a little sitting-room, reached by a long passage with steps in the middle, at
some corner of the castle which seemed a long way from the great door. It was a cheerful little
room, with chintz curtains, and a few shelves laden with brightly-bound books, which had been
prepared for Lizzie immediately on her marriage. It looked out upon the sea, and she had almost
taught herself to think that here she had sat with her adored Florian, gazing in mutual ecstasy
upon the "wide expanse of glittering waves." She was lying back in a low arm-chair as her cousin
entered, and she did not rise to receive him. Of course she was alone, Miss Macnulty having
received a suggestion that it would be well that she should do a little gardening in the moat.
"Well, Frank?" she said, with her sweetest smile, as she gave him her hand. She felt and understood
the extreme intimacy which would be implied by her not rising to receive him. As she could
not rush into his arms there was no device by which she could more clearly show to him how
close she regarded his friendship.

"So I am at Portray Castle at last," he said, still holding her hand.

"Yes,--at the dullest, dreariest, deadliest spot in all Christendom, I think,--if Ayrshire
be Christendom. But never mind about that now. Perhaps, as you are at the other side of the
mountain at the Cottage, we shall find it less dull here at the castle."

"I thought you were to be so happy here."

"Sit down and we'll talk it all over by degrees. What will you have,--breakfast or lunch?"

"Neither, thank you."

"Of course you'll stay to dinner?"

"No, indeed. I've a man there at the Cottage with me who would cut his throat in his solitude."

"Let him cut his throat;--but never mind now. As for being happy, women are never happy without
men. I needn't tell any lies to you, you know. What makes me sure that this fuss about making
men and women all the same must be wrong, is just the fact that men can get along without women,
and women can't without men. My life has been a burthen to me. But never mind. Tell me about
my lord;--my lord and master."

"Lord Fawn?"

"Who else? What other lord and master? My bosom's own; my heart's best hope; my spot of terra
firma; my cool running brook of fresh water; my rock; my love; my lord; my all! Is he always
thinking of his absent Lizzie? Does he still toil at Downing Street? Oh, dear; do you remember,
Frank, when he told us that 'one of us must remain in town?'"

"I have seen him."

"So you wrote me word."

"And I have seen a very obstinate, pig-headed, but nevertheless honest and truth-speaking gentleman."

"Frank, I don't care twopence for his honesty and truth. If he ill-treats me--" Then she paused;
looking into his face she had seen at once by the manner in which he had taken her badinage,
without a smile, that it was necessary that she should be serious as to her matrimonial prospects.
"I suppose I had better let you tell your story," she said, "and I will sit still and listen."

"He means to ill-treat you."

"And you will let him?"

"You had better listen, as you promised, Lizzie. He declares that the marriage must be off
at once unless you will send those diamonds to Mr. Camperdown or to the jewellers."

"And by what law or rule does he justify himself in a decision so monstrous? Is he prepared
to prove that the property is not my own?"

"If you ask me my opinion as a lawyer, I doubt whether any such proof can be shown. But as
a man and a friend I do advise you to give them up."

"Never!"

"You must, of course, judge for yourself;--but that is my advice. You had better, however,
hear my whole story."

