THE COMING OF THE LAW

BY CHARLES ALDEN SELTZER

Author of "The Range Riders," "The Two-Gun Man," "The Triangle Cupid," etc.

With Frontispiece in Colors by R. W. AMICK

A. L. BURT COMPANY

Publishers--New York

Copyright 1912, By

OUTING PUBLISHING COMPANY

All Rights Reserved

First Printing, August, 1912

Second Printing, September, 1912

CONTENTS

       I. The Arrival of the Man                                 9
      II. The Rule of Cattle                                    25
     III. Norton Makes a Discovery                              42
      IV. At the Circle Bar                                     53
       V. The Girl of Dry Bottom                                73
      VI. Hollis Renews an Acquaintance                         87
     VII. The "Kicker" Becomes an Institution                  107
    VIII. Concerning the "Six O'Clock"                         119
      IX. How a Bad Man Left the "Kicker" Office               127
       X. The Lost Trail                                       151
      XI. Picking Up the Trail                                 161
     XII. After the Storm                                      169
    XIII. "Woman--She Don't Need No Tooter"                    177
     XIV. The Coalition                                        187
      XV. To Support the Law                                   198
     XVI. The Bearer of Good News                              209
    XVII. The Rustler                                          224
   XVIII. The Tenth Day                                        238
     XIX. How a Rustler Escaped                                246
      XX. The "Kicker's" Candidate                             257
     XXI. Dunlavey Plays a Card                                267
    XXII. Proof of Gratitude                                   280
   XXIII. Ten Spot Uses His Eyes                               289
    XXIV. Campaign Guns                                        294
     XXV. Handling the Law                                     314
    XXVI. Autumn and the Gods                                  327
   XXVII. The Sear and Yellow Days                             336
  XXVIII. In Defiance of the Law                               342
    XXIX. The Arm of the Law                                   354
     XXX. Forming a Friendship                                 364
    XXXI. Afterward                                            375

THE COMING OF THE LAW

CHAPTER I

THE ARRIVAL OF THE MAN

If the passengers on the west-bound train that pulled up at the little red wooden station at
Dry Bottom at the close of a June day in 18--, were interested in the young man bearing the
two suit cases, they gave no evidence of it. True, they noted his departure; with casual glances
they watched him as he stepped down upon the platform; but immediately they forgot his athletic
figure and his regular featured, serious face as their thoughts returned to the heat, the dust,
and the monotony of travel.

There was the usual bustle and activity which always follows the arrival of a train. A mail
bag was dumped out of the mail car, another thrown in; some express packages were unceremoniously
deposited near the door of the station by the agent; the conductor ran to the telegrapher's
window to receive an order; ran back, signaling as he ran; the engine bell clanged, the drivers
clanked, the wheels ground, the passengers sighed, and the train departed on its way.

The young man who had alighted stood motionless for a moment, listening to the clatter of the
wheels over the rail-joints, watching the smoke from the engine-stack befoul the clear blue
of the sky. Then he smiled grimly, threw a rapid glance toward a group of loungers standing
at a corner of the station, and walked over to where the station agent stood examining some
newly arrived packages.

"Do you mind directing me to the courthouse?" said the young man.

The agent looked up, turned, and ran a measuring, speculative eye over the new arrival. He
noted the Eastern cut of the young man's clothing and beneath the dust of travel the clear,
healthy white skin of his face. "Stranger here?" observed the agent, with a slight, humorous
narrowing of the eyes.

"Yes."

"No, I don't mind," resumed the agent, answering the young man's question. "You won't have
any trouble findin' the courthouse. There's only one street in this town an' the courthouse
is down to the other end of it--you couldn't miss it if you tried." He grinned with some amusement
at the young man's back as the latter with a cordial "thank you," returned to his suit cases,
gripped them firmly by the handles, and strode down the wooden platform toward the street,
ignoring the group of loungers at the corner of the station.

"'Nother tenderfoot," remarked one of the loungers as the young man passed out of hearing;
"they're runnin' this country plum to hell!"

The young man strode slowly down the board sidewalk that paralleled the buildings on one side
of the street, mentally taking in the dimensions of the town. It was not an inviting picture.
Many buildings of various descriptions snuggled the wide, vacant space which the station agent
had termed a "street." Most of the buildings were unpainted and crude, composed of rough boards
running perpendicularly, with narrow battens over the joints. There were several brick buildings
two stories in height, bearing the appearance of having been recently erected, and these towered
over the squat, one-story frames in seeming contemptuous dignity. There were many private dwellings,
some stores, but the young man's first impression was that there was an enormous number of saloons.

He saw few people; those who came within range of vision were apparently cowboys, for they
were rigged in the picturesque garb that he had studied many times in the illustrations of
Eastern magazines. He had admired them afar, for there was something about them, something
in the free, wild life they led, that appealed to him; something that struck at the primitive
in his heart. He had heard tales of them; travelers returning from these regions had related
sundry stories of these wild men of the plains; stories of their hardihood, of their recklessness,
of their absolute fearlessness--clothing them with a glamor and romance that had deeply impressed
the young man. His own life had been rather prosaic.

He saw some cowponies hitched to rails in front of several of the saloons; in front of a store
he observed a canvas-covered wagon which he recognized (from sketches he had seen) as a "prairie
schooner"; in front of another store he saw a spring wagon of the "buckboard" variety. That
was all. The aroma of sage-brush filled his nostrils; the fine, flint-like, powdered alkali
dust lay thick everywhere. It was unattractive and dismal.

The town, as it lay before him, began in desolation and ended in desolation. Except that it
was a trifle larger it differed in no important particular from many others that littered the
face of the world through which he had passed during the last twenty-four hours. It was a mere
dot in the center of a flat grass country covering a vast area. It sat, serene in its isolation,
as far from civilization as Genesis from Revelation. In the stifling heat of the lazy June
afternoon it drowsed, seemingly deserted except for the ponies and the two wagons, and the
few incurious cowboys who had rewarded the young man with their glances. Apparently whatever
citizens were here were busy in the saloons. As this thought flashed upon the young man his
lips straightened grimly. But he continued slowly on his way, giving much attention to objects
that came within his range of vision. The more he saw of the town, the less pleased he was with it.

The suit cases were heavy; he paused in front of a building and set them down, while with his
handkerchief he mopped the dust and perspiration from his forehead. He saw a flaring sign on
the roof of the building in front of which he had stopped and he read the legend with a smile
of derision: "The Fashion Saloon." Several ponies were hitched to the rail in front of the
building; the bridle of one was gaily decorated with a bow of ribbon. Only a woman would have
decorated a pony thus, the young man decided with a smile. Yet what sort of woman would hitch
her pony in front of a saloon? He looked about him for some explanation and saw a vacant space
beside him and beside the vacant space a store. There was no hitching rail in front of the
store, therefore here was the explanation. He heard a sound behind him and turning he beheld
the figures of a man and a woman in the vacant space between the two buildings.

The woman seemed to be little more than a girl, for as the young man watched she turned slightly
toward him--though not seeing him--and he saw youth pictured on her face, and innocence, though
withal she gave the young man an impression of sturdy self-reliance that awakened instant admiration
for her in his mind.

She was attired in picturesque costume, consisting of short riding skirt, boots, felt hat,
woolen blouse with a flowing tie at the throat, gloves, and spurs. It was not the sort of thing
to which the young man was accustomed, but she made an attractive picture and he took in every
detail of her appearance with eager eyes.

It was some time before he noticed the man. The latter stood facing the girl and he could not
get a view of his face. He had a gigantic frame, with huge shoulders that loomed above the
girl, dwarfing her. The young man remained motionless, watching the two, for there was something
in the big man's attitude that held him. The man turned presently and the young man had a glimpse
of his face. It was heavy featured, coarse, and an unmistakable brutality was betrayed in it.
The young man's lips curled. He did not like the type, and it was the girl's face that held
him now that he had seen the man's.

He leaned easily against the front of the building, not over fifteen feet distant from the
two, trying to appear uninterested, but not concealing his interest. He believed the girl had
not seen him, for though she had looked in his direction he was sure that her glance had passed
him to rest on the pony at the hitching rail. Swift as the glance had been the young man had
seen in her face an expression that caused him to decide to remain where he was until the girl
mounted her pony, no matter how long that time might be. So he relaxed, leaning against the
building--attentive, listening, though apparently entirely unconcerned over their conversation.

The girl seemed moved with some deep emotion over something the big man had said, for her slight
figure had stiffened and she stood looking at him with an angry, intense gaze. The big man
had been taunting her, for his teeth showed in a mocking grin as he hovered near her, apparently
sure of her. It was like a lion playing with a mouse. Then the young man heard the big man's voice:

"So you don't take kindly to my courting? Don't want anything to do with me at all?" His forced
laugh had a harshness in it that caused the young man's muscles to stiffen. He took a sly glance
at the girl and saw her chin uplift with disdain.

"Do you think it necessary for me to tell you that--again?" she said.

A strange satisfaction thrilled the young man; sympathy for her drew his mouth into a peculiarly
grim smile. But he had no time to enjoy his satisfaction for the big man spoke and this time
he did not laugh.

"Well," he said shortly, "you're going to have something to do with me. You're going to hook
up with me or I'm putting that crazy brother of yours out of business!"

The girl was suddenly rigid and a deep red as suddenly suffused her cheeks. The young man's
face paled at the threat, his teeth came together with a snap, and he leaned forward, wishing
to hear some more of this extraordinary conversation. More of it came quickly. The girl spoke,
her voice even and well controlled, though burdened with a biting sarcasm:

"What a terrible man you are, to be sure, to threaten to make war upon a defenseless girl and
her afflicted brother. But I'm not afraid of you!"

She took a step toward him, standing very close to him and looking straight into his eyes.
She was fighting bravely for her composure, but the young man had seen that her lips had quivered
pitifully during her brief speech. He stiffened with sympathy. He could not, of course, understand
this strange conversation, but he could discern its drift, and the suggestive underplay in
the big man's words. But plainly he had not been mistaken in his estimate of the young woman--she
seemed entirely able to take care of herself.

He crowded a little closer, though he knew that this conversation was none of his affair further
than that he was interested--as any man would be interested--in seeing that the young woman
received decent treatment. Certainly so far she had not received that, yet neither had the
big man said anything to warrant interference by a stranger. Stealing another glance, the young
man saw a heavy revolver at the man's hip, and he did not doubt, from what he had thus far
seen of him, that he would use the weapon should he turn and discover that there was a listener
to his conversation. Such an action would accord perfectly with tales that the young man had
heard of this section of the country. But he edged closer.

The big man's face had become poisonously bloated. The girl's defiance seemed to have enraged him.

"Hell!" he said venomously. "You're talking damn brave!" He leaned closer to her. "And you
think you'd be disgraced if folks knowed you was a friend of mine?" He laughed harshly. "Most
folks are tickled to be known as my friend. But I'm telling you this: If I ain't a friend I'm
an enemy, and you're doing as I say or I'm making things mighty unpleasant for you and your
poor, 'afflicted' brother!"

The young man saw the girl's hands clench, saw her face grow slowly pale. Twice now had the
big man taunted her about her brother, and plainly his words had hurt her. Words trembled on
her lips but refused to come. But for an instant she forced her eyes to meet those of the man
and then they suddenly filled with tears. She took a backward step, her shoulders drooping.
The big man followed her, gloating over her. Again the young man's thoughts went to the lion
and the mouse.

"Hurts, does it?" said the big man, brutally. "Well, you've brought it on yourself, being such
a damn prude!"

He reached out and grasped her by the shoulder. She shrank back, struggling with him, trying
to grasp the butt of an ivory-handled revolver that swung at her right hip. The big man pinned
her arms and the effort was futile.

And then retribution--like an avalanche--struck the big man. He heard the movement, sensed
the danger, and flung his right hand toward his pistol butt. There was a silent struggle; a
shot, one of the young man's arms swung out--flail like--the clenched hand landing with a crash.
The big man went down like a falling tree--prone to the ground, his revolver flying ten feet
distant, a little blue-white smoke curling lazily upward out of its muzzle. The big man was
raised again--bodily--and hurled down again. He lay face upward in the white sunlight--a mass
of bruised and bleeding flesh.

The young man's anger had come and gone. He stood over the big man, looking down at him, his
white teeth gleaming through his slightly parted lips.

"I think that will do for you," he said in an even, passionless voice.

For an instant there was a tense silence. The young man turned and looked at the girl, who
was regarding him with surprised and bewildered eyes.

The young man smiled mirthlessly. "I think I waited rather too long. But he won't bother you
again--at least for a few minutes."

He saw the girl's gaze directed to a point somewhere behind him and he turned to see that a
door in the side of the Fashion Saloon was vomiting men. They came rushing out, filling the
space between the two buildings--cowboys mostly, with a sprinkling of other men whose appearance
and attire proclaimed them citizens. The young man stood silent while the newcomers ranged
themselves about him, others giving their attention to the big man who still lay on the ground.
The girl had not moved; she was standing near the young man, her face pale, her slight figure
rigid, her eyes wide and flashing. The young man looked from her to the men who had crowded
about him and he became aware that one of the men--a slender, olive-skinned cowboy--evidently
a half-breed--was speaking to him. He stood looking at the man, saw menace in his eyes, heard
his voice, writhing in profane accusation:

"So you've shot Beeg Beel, you tenderfoot----!" said the man. His right hand was hooked in
his cartridge belt, near the butt of his six-shooter.

The young man had been coldly scrutinizing the face of the half-breed; he had seen a sneering
insolence on the thin, snarling lips, and he knew instantly that this man was a friend of his
fallen adversary. He had smiled grimly when the man had begun speaking, being willing to argue
the justice of his action in striking the big man, but at the man's vile insult his white teeth
gleamed again and his right arm flew out--like a flail--the fist crashing against the half-breed's
jaw. Like the big man the half-breed collapsed in a heap on the ground. There was a sudden
movement in the crowd, and pistols flashed in the sunlight. The young man took a backward step,
halted, drew himself up and faced them, his lips curling.

"Of course you'll shoot now," he said bitterly.

He heard a rustle beside him, and turned to see the girl standing within a foot of him, the
ivory-handled pistol in hand, her eyes flashing coldly.

"I don't think that any of them are going to shoot," she declared evenly, her voice resounding
in the sudden silence that had fallen; "Big Bill got just what he deserved, and this gentleman
will not be molested. He isn't armed," she said, with a dry laugh; "shooting him would be murder,
and if he is shot I promise to avenge him immediately." She turned slightly, speaking to the
young man while keeping her eyes on the men around her. During the pause that followed her
words several of the men stealthily sheathed their weapons and stepped back.

"I think Big Bill is able to fight his own battles," continued the girl, taking advantage of
the evident reluctance of the men to force trouble.

Her face became slightly paler as she saw the big man sit up and stare about him. He got to
his feet and stood, swaying dizzily for an instant, and then his gaze sought out the young
man and was fixed on him with foreboding malignance. His right hand fell to his holster, and
finding no weapon there he turned and sought it, finding it, and returning to a point near
the young man, the weapon in hand. As he halted there was another movement and the half-breed
was on his feet and dragging at his revolver. The young man crouched, prepared to spring, and
the big man spoke sharply to the half-breed.

"Quit it!" he said, snarling. "Mind your own business!" Then he seemed to realize that the
half-breed had been worsted also, for he looked at the latter, saw the dust on his clothing
and grinned expressively.

"So he got you too, did he, Yuma?" His heavy features wreathed into a mocking sneer as he faced
the young man.

"Knocked me down!" he said in a silky, even voice. "Knocked me cold with a punch. Knocked Yuma
Ed down too!" He took another step toward the young man and surveyed him critically, his eyes
glinting with something very near amusement. Then he stepped back, laughing shortly.

"I ain't shooting you," he said. "I've got an idea that you and me will meet again." There
was an ominous threat in his voice as he continued: "Shooting you wouldn't half pay you back.
Mark that, young man--shooting you wouldn't half pay you back."

He stepped away from the young man, motioning the other men into the door through which they
had emerged to come to his assistance, and they filed slowly in without protest. The big man
paused long enough to look again at the young man.

"Knocked me down!" he said as though scarcely able to realize the truth; "knocked me cold with
a punch!" He laughed, his coarse features twisting into an odd expression. "Well, I'll be damned!"
He turned abruptly and disappeared through the door through which the other men had gone.

For an instant the young man stood, looking after him. Then he turned and saw the young woman,
standing near her pony, regarding him with grave eyes.

"Thank you," she said. He caught a flashing smile and then she was in the saddle, loping her
pony down the street toward the station. For a moment the young man looked after her and then
with a smile he returned to his suit cases and was off down the street toward the courthouse,
which he saw in the distance.

CHAPTER II

THE RULE OF CATTLE

The courthouse was a low, one-story redbrick building, sitting well back from the street. It
was evidently newly built, for an accumulation of débris, left by the workmen, still littered
the ground in the vicinity. A board walk led from the street to the wide, arched entrance.
From the steps one could look down the street at the station and the other buildings squatting
in the sunlight, dingy with the dust of many dry days. Except for the cowponies and the buckboard
and the prairie schooner there was a total absence of life or movement, offering a striking
contrast to the bustling cities to which the young man had been accustomed.

He walked rapidly down the board walk, entered the courthouse, and paused before a door upon
which appeared the legend: "United States District Court. J. Blackstone Graney." The young
man set his suit cases down, mopped his forehead with his handkerchief, making a wry face at
the dust that appeared on the linen after his use of it, and then knocked lightly, but firmly,
on the door. A voice inside immediately admonished him to "come in." The young man smiled with
satisfaction, turned the knob and opened the door, standing on the threshold. A man seated
at one of the windows of the room was gazing steadily out at the vast, dry, sun-scorched country.
He turned at the young man's entrance and got slowly to his feet, apparently waiting for the
visitor to speak. He was a short man, not heavily, but stockily built, giving a clear impression
of stolidity. Yet there was a certain gleam in his eyes that gave the lie to this impression,
a gleam that warned of an active, analytical mind. Judicial dignity lurked all over him.

The young man bowed respectfully. "Are you Judge Graney?" he questioned.

The judge nodded and the young man smiled slightly. "I am Kent Hollis," he said.

The judge had been approaching a big table that stood in the center of the room and at the
young man's words he took a second glance at him, but did not hesitate in his walk toward the
table. However, he smiled when he reached it, sinking into a chair and motioning the young
man to another.

"I have been expecting you," he said after he had become seated. "Take a chair." He waited
until the young man had drawn a chair opposite him and then he leaned over the table and stretched
out his hand in greeting. "I'm glad to see you," he continued cordially. He held the young
man's hand for an instant, peering steadily into the latter's unwavering eyes, apparently making
a mental estimate of him. Then he dropped the hand and sat back, a half smile on his face.
"You look like your father," he said.

The young man's face clouded. "Poor dad," he said slowly.

For a moment there was a silence; the judge studied the young man's face. Something that he
saw in it must have pleased him, for he smiled, becoming serious instantly.

"I am sorry you could not get here in time," he said. "We buried your father yesterday."

"I couldn't make it," returned the young man regretfully. "I should have liked to see him before
he died. Where did you bury him?"

"We took him out to his ranch--the Circle Bar," returned the judge, "where he said he wanted
to be buried when he died. You'll find that the Circle Bar boys have done their best for him--which
was little enough. Poor fellow, he deserved something better." He looked keenly at the young man.

Lines of pain came into the latter's face; he bowed his head, nodding at the Judge's words.

"I have always thought that it was his own fault," he said gently. "It might have been different."
He looked slowly up at the judge, his face reddening with embarrassment. "Of course you know
something of his life," he said. "You were his friend--he wrote me a while back, telling me
that. I don't pretend to know what came between him and mother," he continued; "mother would
never tell and father never mentioned it in his letters. I have thought it was drink," he added,
watching the judge's face closely. He caught the latter's slight nod and his lips straightened.
"Yes, it must have been drink," he continued; "I have inferred that from what mother has hinted
now and then. But----" and a wistful gleam came into his eyes--"I have hoped that it would
not be drink that would cause his----"

He caught the judge's slow, grave nod and he broke off abruptly, his eyes filling with an expression
of resignation. "Well," he said, "it is ended, no matter what did it." He shoved back his chair.
"I thank you for what you did for him," he added, rising; "I assure you that if it is possible
for me to repay----"

"Sit down," said the judge, waving a hand to the young man's chair. "No thanks are due me.
I did only what any friend would do for another. I have arranged for you to go out to the Circle
Bar," he informed Hollis as the latter hesitated over resuming his chair. "Neil Norton, your
range boss, is to be here at six o'clock with the buckboard." He consulted his watch. "He ought
to be here in half an hour--if he is on time. Meantime there are some things I would like to
say to you."

Hollis smiled. "Fire away," he directed.

The judge leaned his elbows on the table and narrowed his eyes at Hollis. "Don't think my questions
impertinent," he said gravely, "for I assure you that nothing is further from my mind than
a desire to pry into your affairs. But I take it you will need some advice--which, of course,
you may disregard if you wish. I suppose you don't make a secret of your age?"

"No," was the instant reply, given with a grin, "I am twenty-six."

The judge smiled dryly. "We have great ambitions at twenty-six," he said. "I remember that
at twenty-six I was rather determined on making the Supreme bench. You can see for yourself
how far I missed it. I do not say that we never realize our ambitions," he added quickly as
he saw a flash light up the young man's eyes; "I merely wish to show that in my case they were
rather extravagant." He grimaced, continuing with a smile: "You are a college man, of course--I
can see that."

Hollis nodded. The judge continued, with an admiring glance at the young man's muscular frame
and broad shoulders.

"Went in for athletics--football, and such?" he said. "Well," he added, catching the young
man's nod, "it didn't hurt you a particle--it doesn't hurt anybody. Rather prepares a man for
hard knocks--which he is sure to get sooner or later. If you have decided to live in this country
you must expect hard knocks. And I presume you are going to live here?"

"That depends." returned Hollis. "If father has left his affairs in such shape that it is necessary
for me to stay here and straighten them out, why of course I shall stay. Otherwise----" He
hesitated and laughed quietly, continuing: "Well, I also have an ambition, and if I am compelled
to remain here it will have to be sacrificed. It is a rather humble ambition compared to yours,"
he laughed. "It is journalism," he continued, suddenly serious; "I want to own a newspaper.
I am city editor now and in a few years----" He laughed. "I am not going to prophesy, but I
have been working hard."

The judge's eyelashes flickered, but his face remained grave. "I am afraid that you will have
to remain here. That is"--he added dryly--"if you expect to realize anything from the property."

"I expect there can't be much property," observed Hollis.

The judge smiled. "A thousand acres of good grass land, some buildings, and"--here the judge's
eyes gleamed and he drawled his words--"a newspaper."

Hollis sat erect. "A newspaper!" he gasped. "A newspaper in this country? Why, man, a newspaper----"

The judge laughed. "So you will not have to go back East in order to be able to realize your
ambition--you can own a newspaper here--your father's newspaper--the Dry Bottom Kicker. It
was quite a recent venture; I believe it appeared about a dozen times--intermittently. Ostensibly
it was a weekly, but in reality it was printed at those times when your father's affliction
sat least heavily upon him. He used to hire a compositor from Las Vegas to set the type,--a
man named Potter--a worthless sort of fellow, but a genius in his way--when sober. I suspect
that much of the matter that went into the Kicker emanated from the brain of Dave Potter."

Hollis's smile revealed just a trace of derision. "You don't happen to know how father happened
to think that a newspaper would pay--in this place?" he asked.

The judge looked at him meditatively, a gleam of quiet amusement in his eyes. "I don't remember
to have said that the paper made any money for your father," he returned slowly; "nor do I
remember hearing your father say that he expected it to make any money. As I understand the
situation, your father founded the paper on principle. He expected to use it as a weapon."

"Please go on," urged Hollis. "That strikes me as a rather Quixotic proceeding."

"It was, rather," admitted the judge; "that is, it would seem Quixotic as viewed by an Eastern
newspaper man. But out here people are apt to ignore money and methods in considering results.
After you have been here a while you will be able to see the force and truth of that statement.
Your father was after results and he seized upon the idea of founding a newspaper as a means
by which to obtain them. And I feel certain that had he lived he would have succeeded."

"I plead ignorance," said Hollis, watching the judge closely. "What particular result did my
father desire?"

Judge Graney's eyes gleamed with earnestness. He leaned forward, speaking slowly and distinctly.

"I am going to illustrate my point by giving you a brief history of your father's experiences
out here--as I had it from him. He came out here about fifteen years ago and took up a quarter-section
of land over on Rabbit-Ear Creek, the present site of the Circle Bar ranch. For quite a few
years he was a nester--as the small owner is called in this country, but he was unmolested
for the reason that there were few large owners in the vicinity and each man was willing that
his neighbor should succeed. Your father prospered and after a few years began to buy land.
He finally acquired a thousand acres; he told me that at one time he had about five thousand
head of cattle. Of course, these cattle could not live on your father's thousand acres, but
the ranges are free and the thousand acres answered very well as a headquarters.

"Eight years ago some men in Santa Fe organized what is known as the Union County Cattlemen's
Association. This company secured a section of land adjoining your father's property, on the
other side of Rabbit-Ear Creek. The company called its ranch the Circle Cross. Perhaps it strikes
you as peculiar that the Association should have chosen a brand so closely resembling your
father's. I will digress long enough to explain the action."

The judge drew out a pencil and picked up a piece of paper that lay near him on the desk, making
some crude hieroglyphics and poising his pencil above them.

"Here," he explained, indicating a sketch which he had drawn, "is the Circle Bar brand--a bar
within a circle. And this--" indicating another sketch, "--is the Circle Cross--a cross within
a circle. It is of course, perfectly obvious that all the Circle Cross company had to do when
it desired to appropriate one of the Circle Bar cattle was to add a vertical bar to the Circle
Bar brand and the brand became the Circle Cross. From a mechanical standpoint it was a very
trifling operation, the manipulator of the brands having merely to apply the hot iron through
a piece of wet blanket--that gives a new brand the appearance of age.

"To get back to the main subject. The new company called its ranch the Circle Cross and it
erected new buildings within a few miles of the Circle Bar buildings. Not long after the advent
of the new company it tried to buy the Circle Bar, but your father refused to sell. Bill Dunlavey,
the Circle Cross manager, attempted to negotiate the purchase of the Circle Bar and when he
was met with refusal hard words passed between him and your father. Not long after that your
father began to miss cattle--rustlers began a systematic attack upon his herds. Your father
recognized this thievery as the work of the Cattlemen's Association and he fought back.

"A number of times he changed his brands but each time the company checkmated him. To illustrate:
Your father changed his brand to appear thus:" The judge drew again on the paper. "That is
the 'Wine-Glass' brand. You can see that it resembles a wine glass when held up vertically,
though of course as it appeared on the Circle Bar cattle it lay on its side. But this move
was futile, for among the Circle Cross cattle now appeared many branded with the sign of the
'Hour-Glass,' thus:" The judge drew again. "This was achieved by merely adding a semi-circle
to the wine-glass, closing over the bowl."

"As I have said your father altered his brand a good many times. But the Circle Bar cattle
continued to disappear. Years of warfare followed. The Cattlemen's Association lost no opportunity
to harass your father or, for that matter, all the other small owners in the vicinity. Desperate,
dissolute men were imported from Texas and Arizona, men who took delight in the shedding of
human blood. These men roamed the ranges, stealing the Circle Bar cattle and killing Circle
Bar cowboys. Your father had trouble in keeping men; in order to surround himself with enough
men to protect his cattle and resist the aggressions of Dunlavey's hired assassins he was forced
to pay ruinous wages.

"Even then he could not prevent rustling. Dunlavey bribed his men; his herds dwindled; he saw
that he was facing ruin if he did not devise some means to successfully cope with his enemies.
He went over to Santa Fe to see the governor--a piffling carpet-bagger. He was told that the
government was powerless; that the same condition existed all over the country, and that the
government was unable to combat it. The Law had not come.

"Your father returned home, discouraged but not beaten. He approached the several other small
owners in the vicinity, asking for co-operation and assistance. Fearful of Dunlavey's wrath,
the small owners refused to organize. But your father decided to carry on the fight alone.
He recognized the fact that nothing but the Law could defeat the association's aims, and he
determined to force the Law into the Territory. With this end in view he established his newspaper.
He succeeded in arousing public interest with the result that a court was established here."

The judge smiled dryly, continuing: "Yes, the Law is here. Or what is more to the point, a
representative of the Law is here. 'I am the Law,'" he quoted, ironically. "But my hands are
tied; this court is a mere travesty upon justice. The government at Washington has seen fit
to send me here--alone. I can't go out and get evidence; I couldn't secure a conviction if
I did. The people here who are not Dunlavey's friends were afraid of him. I can't get a jury.
Dunlavey elects the sheriff--controls the election machinery. I am powerless--a mere figurehead.
This is the situation in a nutshell. I could go into detail, but I imagine it is plain enough
as it is."

Hollis's face had become gravely serious; his lips were straightened with an expression that
hinted at the conflict that was going on in his mind.

"Isn't there an army post near?" he questioned.

"Over at Fort Union--a hundred miles or so southwest. I have pleaded for a detail, but have
been informed that it can't be had; that the soldiers are needed to keep the Indians in order.
Independent cattlemen are supposed to fight it out alone. At least that is the inference, if
we are to consider the attitude of the government."

Hollis was gravely silent. The judge leaned back in his chair, watching him with a queer expression.
He realized that he had said enough to discourage the average young man from remaining in the
country a moment longer than was absolutely necessary. He would not have been surprised had
Hollis told him that he did not intend to remain. But from what he had seen of the young man
he felt sure that his decision, when it did come, would be final. More than once since Hollis
had been in the office had the judge observed the serene, steady gleam in his eyes, and he
had catalogued him with the rare class of men whose mental balance is so perfect that nothing
disturbs it. The judge had met a few such men in the West and he knew the type. As he sat looking
at the young man he decided that Providence had made a mistake in allowing him to waste his
time in the East. The West teemed with opportunities for men of his kind.

He was not surprised at Hollis's next question; it showed that he was considering the situation
from many angles before committing himself.

"What is the condition of Circle Bar ranch at present?" he asked.

"The title to the land is intact and cannot be assailed. But Norton informs me that there are
not above two hundred head of cattle on the range, and that the buildings are run down. Not
a very cheerful prospect?"

He had told the truth about the land and the cattle, but he had purposely exaggerated concerning
the condition of the buildings, being grimly determined to place the situation in its most
unfavorable light that he might be the better able to test the young man's mettle. He smiled
as Hollis thoughtfully stroked his chin.

"Well, now," admitted the latter, flashing a queer smile at the judge, "I quite agree with
you that the prospect isn't cheering. But so long as the condition is such as it is there is
no need to grumble. I didn't come out here expecting to fall into a bed of roses."

"Then you won't be disappointed," returned the judge dryly. He filled and lighted a pipe, smoking
meditatively, his eyes on the younger man with a curious expression. He had determined to push
the test a little farther.

"You could probably sell the Circle Bar," he said finally. "Your father told me before he died
that he had been offered ten dollars an acre for his land. That would total to a tidy sum."

Hollis looked quickly at the judge, his eyes flashing with grim amusement. "Would you advise
me to sell?" he questioned.

The judge laughed quietly. "That is an unfair question," he equivocated, narrowing his eyes
whimsically. "If I were heir to the property and felt that I did not care to assume the danger
of managing it I should sell, without doubt. If, on the other hand, I had decided to continue
my father's fight against an unscrupulous company, I would stay no matter what the consequences.
But"--He puffed slowly at his pipe, his voice filling with unmistakable sarcasm--"it would
be so much easier to sell and return at once to a more peaceful atmosphere. With ten thousand
dollars you could go back East and go on with your newspaper work, well equipped, with a chance
of realizing your ambition--and not be troubled with continuing a fight in which, no doubt,
there would be many blows to be taken."

"Thank you," returned Hollis quietly. He looked steadily into the judge's eyes, his own glinting
with a grim humor. "You have succeeded in making it very plain," he continued slowly. "But
I am not going to run--I have decided on that. Of course I feel properly resentful over the
way my father has been treated by this man Dunlavey and his association." His eyes flashed
with a peculiar hardness. "And I would stay here and fight Dunlavey and his parcel of ruffians
if for no other reason than to secure revenge on personal grounds.

"But there is one other reason. There is a principle at stake. I don't care very much about
the personal side of the question; little as I knew my father, I believe he would have ignored
personalities were he confronted with the condition that confronts me. It is my belief that
as an American citizen he chafed under conditions that prevented him from enjoying that freedom
to which we are all entitled under the Constitution. Judging from your conversation you are
in entire sympathy with that sentiment." He smiled at the judge. "Of course I am not mistaken?"
he added.

The tobacco in the bowl of the judge's pipe spluttered; he brought his right fist heavily down
upon the table, rattling the pens and ink bottles that littered its top. "No, young man; you
are not mistaken--you have hit the nail squarely on the head. If you are going to stay here
and fight Dunlavey and his crew, Blackstone Graney is with you until----"

"Until the Law comes," suggested Hollis.

"Yes, by thunder!" declared the judge. "You can go further than that and say: 'until the Law
rules!'"

CHAPTER III

NORTON MAKES A DISCOVERY

Judge Graney rose and leaned over the table, taking the young man's hand and holding it tightly.
Then he sat down again and resumed smoking. Neither man said a word during the hand-clasp and
yet both knew that their hearts and minds were united in a common cause. Words would have been
unnecessary and futile.

Hollis's path of duty lay straight and open before him. There was no by-way that would lead
him around the dangers that were sure to beset him. Nor had he thought to search for any. Long
before the judge had concluded his recital of conditions in the county Hollis had decided to
meet the issue squarely. He had been able to see beyond the petty, personal side of the question;
had even ignored it to get at the big, pithy principle of equal rights. The Law must come.
If he could assist in bringing it he would be accomplishing something real and tangible and
he would be satisfied. He did not believe that Destiny had anything to do with his appearance
upon the scene at this particular time; rather he felt that his coming was merely a result
of a combination of circumstances such as might have occurred to any man. And like any man
with courage and deeply settled convictions he was prepared to move forward to the issue, trusting
himself. He had no thought of appearing heroic.

Yet to the judge he appeared so. The latter had been prepared to hear excuses from him; had
been prepared to resist a natural inclination to berate the young man soundly for lack of parental
loyalty, though conscious that he could advance no valid reason for the young man sacrificing
himself upon the altars of an old feud. It was against human nature for any man to so sacrifice
himself, he had assured himself when trying to build up a defense for the young man.

And now that Hollis had shown that he needed no defender; that he was willing to take up the
cudgels in behalf of his father, the judge was scarcely able to restrain himself. To state
calmly that he intended to fight the Cattlemen's Association when there was a life of comparative
safety awaiting him in another section of the country was an heroic decision. Many another
man would have cringed--would have surrendered without striking a blow.

Judge Graney had long known that the action of his government in sending him to Union County
was an ironical surrender on the part of the government to the forces in the West which had
been long demanding the Law. He had been sent here, presumably to enforce the law, but in reality
to silence the government's critics. He was not expected to convict anyone. Theoretically he
was supposed to uphold the majesty of the law in Union County, but in reality he merely remained
and drew his salary. There was no law to enforce.

In the fight that had been waged between the elder Hollis and the Cattlemen's Association his
sympathies had been with Hollis, though he had never been able to assist him in a legal way.
But the judge knew that eventually the Law must come, and so he encouraged Hollis, assuring
him that victory would be his in the end.

And then Hollis had died--suddenly. The Las Vegas doctor who had attended him had shaken his
head sagely when the judge had questioned him regarding his patient and had pointed significantly
to one of Dry Bottom's saloons. The doctor had told the judge there was no hope, and the latter
had telegraphed East. The appearance of young Hollis had been the result. The judge's heart
had warmed toward the young man.

"What are your intentions regarding the newspaper--the Kicker?" he questioned.

Hollis looked up quickly, his face grave. "Perhaps if there had been no Kicker here my decision
might have been different," he said. "But so long as it is here it is in business to stay!"

"I expect that decision won't please Dunlavey a whole lot," the judge returned.

"Perhaps not," drawled Hollis; "still, we can't aim to please everybody. I expect I might be
able to get hold of that printer--Potter I believe you called him?"

"Potter won't be hard to find," assured the judge; "a search of the saloons would uncover him,
I imagine." He smiled. "When you get ready to get the Kicker out just let me know; I promise
to have Potter on hand."

To the ears of the two men came a rattle of wheels and a voice. The judge leaned back in his
chair and looked out through the window. His face wreathed into a broad smile as he resumed
his former position and looked at Hollis. "Your range boss is here," he said.

They heard a step on the board walk, and a man stood in the doorway looking at them.

The newcomer gave an instant impression of capability. He stood on the threshold, entirely
composed, saturnine, serene eyed, absolutely sure of himself. He was arrayed in high heeled
boots, minus spurs; the bottoms of a pair of dust-covered overalls were tucked into the boot
legs; a woolen shirt, open at the throat, covered a pair of admirable shoulders; a scarlet
handkerchief was knotted around his neck; and a wide brimmed hat, carelessly dented in the
crown, was shoved rakishly back from his forehead. Sagging from his slim waist was a well filled
cartridge belt and at the right hip a heavy revolver.

"Howdy, judge!" he said with a smile, in response to Judge Graney's cordial greeting.

"Just come in?" questioned the judge.

"Been in town an hour," returned Norton.

He flashed a searching glance at Hollis, which that young man met steadily. The thought crossed
Hollis's mind that the buckboard that he had seen in front of a store soon after leaving the
station must have been Norton's. But now Norton was speaking again and Hollis listened.

"Dropped into the Fashion to see my friend Red Eggers," resumed Norton, smiling broadly. "Same
old crowd--Dunlavey, Yuma Ed, Ten Spot, Greasy--most of the bunch which has been makin' things
interestin' for us hereabouts."

At the mention of "Yuma Ed" Hollis looked up. That was the name of the second man he had struck
in the affair near the Fashion Saloon. He wondered if Norton knew. He did not remember to have
seen the latter among the men who had surrounded him in the space between the two buildings.
But the judge was now introducing him to Norton and he stood up, holding the latter's hand
and meeting his inspecting gaze fairly. He found that the range boss was fully as tall as he;
indeed, Hollis discovered that he was compelled to look up slightly in order to meet the latter's
level gaze. Norton smiled peculiarly; there was a friendly expression in his eyes, but mingled
with it was a reserved, appraising, speculative gleam, which drew a smile to Hollis's lips.

"So you're Jim Hollis's boy?" said Norton. "My new boss?" He grinned, evidently willing to
go more than half way in forming a friendship with his "new boss". "I don't reckon that you're
much stuck on this here country--much as you've seen of it?"

"I've been used to keeping busy," laughed Hollis, "and my impression is that it seems rather
dull out here."

Norton's eyelashes flickered. He deliberately closed one eye at the judge, carefully averting
his face so that Hollis could not see.

"So you're lookin' for action?" he said to Hollis in a grave voice. "Mebbe it ain't none of
my business," he added, his eyes gleaming, "but I'm askin' you if you're thinkin' to stay in
this country--keepin' your dad's ranch an' his newspaper?"

Hollis nodded. Norton's eyes gleamed with a savage delight. "Bully!" he declared. "If you stay
here you'll get plenty of action. I was afraid you wouldn't stay." He turned to Judge Graney,
a grin of satisfaction on his face. "I'm tellin' you somethin' that will tickle you a heap,"
he said. "I told you that I had stopped in Red Egger's saloon. I did. Dunlavey's bunch was
feelin' mighty sore over somethin'. I stayed there a while, tryin' to find out what it was
all about, but there wasn't none of them sayin' anything to me. But pretty soon I got Red over
into a corner an' he told me. Accordin' to him Dunlavey had corraled that Hazelton girl outside
an' was tellin' her somethin' pretty strong when a tenderfoot, which hadn't any regard for
Dunlavey's delicate feelin's, up an' lambasted him in the jaw!"

"Struck him?" queried the judge, grinning delightedly.

"Knocked him cold," affirmed Norton, his eyes dancing. "Pasted him so hard that he thought
it was night an' went to sleep. Then Yuma busted in an' thought to work his guns. He got his'n,
too. That there tenderfoot didn't have no respect for guns. Red says he never thought any man
could hit so hard. It must have been sumptuous!" He laughed delightedly. "I'd like to shake
hands with that tenderfoot--he's my friend!"

Hollis pulled out a cigar case, selected a cigar, lighted it, and smoked in silence.

So her name was Hazelton. Admiration over the manner in which she had held the men at bay before
Dunlavey got to his feet still lingered; she had impressed him deeply. But a deeper satisfaction
overshadowed his thoughts of the girl, for he had slugged Dunlavey, his father's enemy. His
satisfaction grew to amusement. Did Dunlavey know who had slugged him? He must have suspected,
for Hollis recalled the man's significant expression when, after he had risen from the ground
he said: "I've got an idea that you an' me will meet again."

Hollis's thoughts flitted rapidly from Dunlavey to the girl. Now that he had decided to stay
he had determined to search her out. He remembered that Dunlavey had spoken slightingly of
her brother and he assured himself that he would not be entirely satisfied until he had uncovered
the mystery. He might have questioned Norton or the judge, for both men evidently knew the
girl, but he was reluctant to betray his interest in her to either man.

He heard Norton make an exclamation of surprise, and looking up he saw him holding his right
hand out, the palm upward, examining it. There was a splotch of blood on the palm and another
on the under side of the thumb.

"Shucks!" Norton was saying. "Now where in thunder did I get that?" He looked again at the
hand and then suddenly dove forward to Hollis's side, seized his right hand, peered at the
knuckles and held the hand triumphantly aloft.

"I reckon this is where I got it!" he grinned.

Hollis looked ruefully down at his knuckles. The skin was gashed--evidently where it had come
in contact with a bone in either Dunlavey's or Yuma's jaw. He had intended to keep the story
of adventure to himself. But he saw that Norton had stepped back and was gazing soberly at
the suitcases, which Hollis had deposited near the door. Norton suddenly let out a chirp of
delight.

"Two of them!" he said, suppressing his excitement; "Two grips! Red Eggers said there was two
an' that the tenderfoot had come down toward the court house!" He walked to Hollis and halted
in front of him, looking at him with admiration and satisfaction.

"Own up now!" he said. "You ain't tellin' us that it wasn't you, durn you! Oh, say!" He uttered
a whoop that must have startled the horses in front of the building. Then he sobered down,
speaking in a low, regretful voice: "You durn tenderfoot! Here I've been waitin' for years
to get a crack at that big four-flusher, an' here you come, a-fannin' along from your little
old East an' get ahead of me!" He stifled a cackle of mirth. "An' so you're lookin' for action?
Lordy! If you don't call what you done to Dunlavey an' Yuma action this country's goin' to
set up an' take notice when you get to goin' in earnest!"

Judge Graney loomed somberly over the table. "I suppose it must have been you?" he said gravely.

Hollis nodded. "I may as well confess," he said. "I saw a man giving a young lady a mighty
bad moment and I slugged him. Another man called me a vile name and I slugged him, too. That
was all."

The judge sat down again, his face slightly pale. A significant glance passed between him and
Norton, but the latter laughed grimly.

"I reckon he's opened the ball, right off the reel," he suggested.

Judge Graney drew a deep breath. "Yes," he returned. "I suppose that way is as good as any
other. It was bound to come anyway. It will be war to the finish now!"

CHAPTER IV

AT THE CIRCLE BAR

In the two weeks that followed his arrival at Dry Bottom, Hollis had much time to meditate
upon the great change that had come into his life. His conclusion that there was nothing in
common between cattle raising and journalism was not a result of an involved process of reasoning,
and had he not been endowed with a sense of humor he might have become embittered. Though a
sacrifice be made cheerfully, there lingers always its ghost to draw mental pictures of "what
might have been." Hollis would have been more than human had he not felt some little regret
over his sacrifice.

