"Well, you don't have to take any eastbound train to find that out," she cried gayly.  "I'm
here to tell you I care a lot more than any number of pins.  Oh, I've learned a lot in the
last six months, Bill. I had to hurt myself, and you, too.  I had to get a jolt to jar me out
of my self-centered little orbit.  I got it, and it did me good.  And it's funny.  I came back
here because I thought I ought to, because it was our home, but rather dreading it.  And I've
been quite contented and happy--only hungry, oh, so dreadfully hungry, for you."

Bill kissed her.

"I didn't make any mistake in you, after all," he said.  "You're a real partner.  You're the
right stuff.  I love you more than ever.  If you made a mistake you paid for it, like a dead-game
sport.  What's a few months?  We've all our life before us, and it's plain sailing now we've
got our bearings again."

"Amen!" she whispered.  "I--but, say, man of mine, you've been on the trail, and I know what
the trail is.  You must be hungry.  I've got all kinds of goodies cooked in the kitchen. The Reader
will easily believe that Dr six. Sanderson, s was so meek and loose,
did suddenly and gladly carry the news at the dejected tenant; and
we believe, that to the telling of it said there was mutual rejoicing.
  Say, it was some welcome surprise to find a fire when I came in.  Thought first
somebody traveling through had put up.  Then I saw those slippers lying there. That was sure
making me take notice when you stepped out."

He chuckled at the recollection.  Hazel lit the lamp, and stirred up the fire, plying it with
wood.  Then she slipped a heavy bath-robe over her nightgown and went into the chilly kitchen,
emerging therefrom presently with a tray of food and a kettle of water to make coffee. This
she set on the fire.  Wherever she moved Bill's eyes followed her with a gleam of joy, tinctured
with smiling incredulousness.  When the kettle was safely bestowed on the coals, he drew her
on his knee. There for a minute she perched in rich content.  Then she rose.

"Come very quietly with me, Bill," she whispered, with a fine air of mystery.  "I want to show
you something."

"Sure!  What is it?" he asked.

"Come and see," she smiled, and took up the lamp.  Bill followed obediently.

Close up beside her bed stood a small, square crib.  Hazel set the lamp on a table, and turning
to the bundle of blankets which filled this new piece of furniture, drew back one corner, revealing
a round, puckered-up infant face.

"For the love of Mike!" Bill muttered.  "Is it--is it--"

"It's our son," she whispered proudly.  "Born the tenth of January--three weeks ago to-day.
Don't, don't--you great bear--you'll wake him."

For Bill was bending down to peer at the tiny morsel of humanity, with a strange, abashed smile
on his face, his big, clumsy fingers touching the soft, pink cheeks.  And when he stood up
he drew a long breath, and laid one arm across her shoulders.

"Us two and the kid," he said whimsically.  "It should be the hardest combination in the world
to bust.  Are you happy, little person?"

She nodded, clinging to him, wordlessly happy.  And presently she covered the baby's face,
and they went back to sit before the great fireplace, where the kettle bubbled cheerfully and
the crackling blaze sent forth its challenge to the bevy of frost sprites that held high revel
outside.

And, after a time, the blaze died to a heap of glowing embers, and the forerunning wind of
a northeast storm soughed and whistled about a house deep wrapped in contented slumber, a house
no longer divided against itself.