They declared there was only one physician in the place and he was arrested every week regularly
and held to answer under the vagrant act for having "no visible means of support."  They always
give you a good substantial article of truth in Salt Lake, and good measure and good weight,
too. [Very often, if you wished to weigh one of their airiest little commonplace statements
you would want the hay scales.]

We desired to visit the famous inland sea, the American "Dead Sea," the great Salt Lake--seventeen
miles, horseback, from the city--for we had dreamed about it, and thought about it, and talked
about it, and yearned to see it, all the first part of our trip; but now when it was only arm's
length away it had suddenly lost nearly every bit of its interest.  And so we put it off, in
a sort of general way, till next day--and that was the last we ever thought of it.  We dined
with some hospitable Gentiles; and visited the foundation of the prodigious temple; and talked
long with that shrewd Connecticut Yankee, Heber C. Kimball (since deceased), a saint of high
degree and a mighty man of commerce.

We saw the "Tithing-House," and the "Lion House," and I do not know or remember how many more
church and government buildings of various kinds and curious names.  We flitted hither and
thither and enjoyed every hour, and picked up a great deal of useful information and entertaining
nonsense, and went to bed at night satisfied.

The second day, we made the acquaintance of Mr. Street (since deceased) and put on white shirts
and went and paid a state visit to the king. He seemed a quiet, kindly, easy-mannered, dignified,
self-possessed old gentleman of fifty-five or sixty, and had a gentle craft in his eye that
probably belonged there.  He was very simply dressed and was just taking off a straw hat as
we entered.  He talked about Utah, and the Indians, and Nevada, and general American matters
and questions, with our secretary and certain government officials who came with us.  But he
never paid any attention to me, notwithstanding I made several attempts to "draw him out" on
federal politics and his high handed attitude toward Congress.  I thought some of the things
I said were rather fine.  But he merely looked around at me, at distant intervals, something
as I have seen a benignant old cat look around to see which kitten was meddling with her tail.

By and by I subsided into an indignant silence, and so sat until the end, hot and flushed,
and execrating him in my heart for an ignorant savage. But he was calm.  His conversation with
those gentlemen flowed on as sweetly and peacefully and musically as any summer brook.  When
the audience was ended and we were retiring from the presence, he put his hand on my head,
beamed down on me in an admiring way and said to my brother:

"Ah--your child, I presume?  Boy, or girl?"

CHAPTER XIV.

Mr. Street was very busy with his telegraphic matters--and considering that he had eight or
nine hundred miles of rugged, snowy, uninhabited mountains, and waterless, treeless, melancholy
deserts to traverse with his wire, it was natural and needful that he should be as busy as
possible.  He could not go comfortably along and cut his poles by the road-side, either, but
they had to be hauled by ox teams across those exhausting deserts--and it was two days' journey
from water to water, in one or two of them.  Mr. Street's contract was a vast work, every way
one looked at it; and yet to comprehend what the vague words "eight hundred miles of rugged
mountains and dismal deserts" mean, one must go over the ground in person--pen and ink descriptions
cannot convey the dreary reality to the reader.  And after all, Mr. S.'s mightiest difficulty
turned out to be one which he had never taken into the account at all. Unto Mormons he had
sub-let the hardest and heaviest half of his great undertaking, and all of a sudden they concluded
that they were going to make little or nothing, and so they tranquilly threw their poles overboard
in mountain or desert, just as it happened when they took the notion, and drove home and went
about their customary business!  They were under written contract to Mr. Street, but they did
not care anything for that.  They said they would "admire" to see a "Gentile" force a Mormon
to fulfil a losing contract in Utah!  And they made themselves very merry over the matter.
Street said--for it was he that told us these things:

"I was in dismay.  I was under heavy bonds to complete my contract in a given time, and this
disaster looked very much like ruin.  It was an astounding thing; it was such a wholly unlooked-for
difficulty, that I was entirely nonplussed.  I am a business man--have always been a business
man--do not know anything but business--and so you can imagine how like being struck by lightning
it was to find myself in a country where written contracts were worthless!--that main security,
that sheet-anchor, that absolute necessity, of business.  My confidence left me. There was
no use in making new contracts--that was plain.  I talked with first one prominent citizen
and then another.  They all sympathized with me, first rate, but they did not know how to help
me.  But at last a Gentile said, 'Go to Brigham Young!--these small fry cannot do you any good.'
I did not think much of the idea, for if the law could not help me, what could an individual
do who had not even anything to do with either making the laws or executing them?  He might
be a very good patriarch of a church and preacher in its tabernacle, but something sterner
than religion and moral suasion was needed to handle a hundred refractory, half-civilized sub-contractors.
But what was a man to do? I thought if Mr. Young could not do anything else, he might probably
be able to give me some advice and a valuable hint or two, and so I went straight to him and
laid the whole case before him.  He said very little, but he showed strong interest all the
way through.  He examined all the papers in detail, and whenever there seemed anything like
a hitch, either in the papers or my statement, he would go back and take up the thread and
follow it patiently out to an intelligent and satisfactory result. Then he made a list of the
contractors' names.  Finally he said:

"'Mr. Street, this is all perfectly plain.  These contracts are strictly and legally drawn,
and are duly signed and certified.  These men manifestly entered into them with their eyes
open.  I see no fault or flaw anywhere.'

"Then Mr. Young turned to a man waiting at the other end of the room and said: 'Take this list
of names to So-and-so, and tell him to have these men here at such-and-such an hour.'

"They were there, to the minute.  So was I.  Mr. Young asked them a number of questions, and
their answers made my statement good.  Then he said to them:

"'You signed these contracts and assumed these obligations of your own free will and accord?'

"'Yes.'

"'Then carry them out to the letter, if it makes paupers of you!  Go!'

"And they did go, too!  They are strung across the deserts now, working like bees.  And I never
hear a word out of them.

"There is a batch of governors, and judges, and other officials here, shipped from Washington,
and they maintain the semblance of a republican form of government--but the petrified truth
is that Utah is an absolute monarchy and Brigham Young is king!"

Mr. Street was a fine man, and I believe his story.  I knew him well during several years afterward
in San Francisco.

Our stay in Salt Lake City amounted to only two days, and therefore we had no time to make
the customary inquisition into the workings of polygamy and get up the usual statistics and
deductions preparatory to calling the attention of the nation at large once more to the matter.

I had the will to do it.  With the gushing self-sufficiency of youth I was feverish to plunge
in headlong and achieve a great reform here--until I saw the Mormon women.  Then I was touched.
My heart was wiser than my head.  It warmed toward these poor, ungainly and pathetically "homely"
creatures, and as I turned to hide the generous moisture in my eyes, I said, "No--the man that
marries one of them has done an act of Christian charity which entitles him to the kindly applause
of mankind, not their harsh censure--and the man that marries sixty of them has done a deed
of open-handed generosity so sublime that the nations should stand uncovered in his presence
and worship in silence."

      [For a brief sketch of Mormon history, and the noted Mountain Meadow
      massacre, see Appendices A and B. ]

CHAPTER XV.

It is a luscious country for thrilling evening stories about assassinations of intractable
Gentiles.  I cannot easily conceive of anything more cosy than the night in Salt Lake which
we spent in a Gentile den, smoking pipes and listening to tales of how Burton galloped in among
the pleading and defenceless "Morisites" and shot them down, men and women, like so many dogs.
And how Bill Hickman, a Destroying Angel, shot Drown and Arnold dead for bringing suit against
him for a debt. And how Porter Rockwell did this and that dreadful thing.  And how heedless
people often come to Utah and make remarks about Brigham, or polygamy, or some other sacred
matter, and the very next morning at daylight such parties are sure to be found lying up some
back alley, contentedly waiting for the hearse.

And the next most interesting thing is to sit and listen to these Gentiles talk about polygamy;
and how some portly old frog of an elder, or a bishop, marries a girl--likes her, marries her
sister--likes her, marries another sister--likes her, takes another--likes her, marries her
mother--likes her, marries her father, grandfather, great grandfather, and then comes back
hungry and asks for more.  And how the pert young thing of eleven will chance to be the favorite
wife and her own venerable grandmother have to rank away down toward D 4 in their mutual husband's
esteem, and have to sleep in the kitchen, as like as not.  And how this dreadful sort of thing,
this hiving together in one foul nest of mother and daughters, and the making a young daughter
superior to her own mother in rank and authority, are things which Mormon women submit to because
their religion teaches them that the more wives a man has on earth, and the more children he
rears, the higher the place they will all have in the world to come--and the warmer, maybe,
though they do not seem to say anything about that.

According to these Gentile friends of ours, Brigham Young's harem contains twenty or thirty
wives.  They said that some of them had grown old and gone out of active service, but were
comfortably housed and cared for in the henery--or the Lion House, as it is strangely named.
Along with each wife were her children--fifty altogether.  The house was perfectly quiet and
orderly, when the children were still.  They all took their meals in one room, and a happy
and home-like sight it was pronounced to be.  None of our party got an opportunity to take
dinner with Mr. Young, but a Gentile by the name of Johnson professed to have enjoyed a sociable
breakfast in the Lion House.  He gave a preposterous account of the "calling of the roll,"
and other preliminaries, and the carnage that ensued when the buckwheat cakes came in.  But
he embellished rather too much.  He said that Mr. Young told him several smart sayings of certain
of his "two-year-olds," observing with some pride that for many years he had been the heaviest
contributor in that line to one of the Eastern magazines; and then he wanted to show Mr. Johnson
one of the pets that had said the last good thing, but he could not find the child.

He searched the faces of the children in detail, but could not decide which one it was.  Finally
he gave it up with a sigh and said:

"I thought I would know the little cub again but I don't."  Mr. Johnson said further, that
Mr. Young observed that life was a sad, sad thing --"because the joy of every new marriage
a man contracted was so apt to be blighted by the inopportune funeral of a less recent bride."
And Mr. Johnson said that while he and Mr. Young were pleasantly conversing in private, one
of the Mrs. Youngs came in and demanded a breast-pin, remarking that she had found out that
he had been giving a breast-pin to No. 6, and she, for one, did not propose to let this partiality
go on without making a satisfactory amount of trouble about it.  Mr. Young reminded her that
there was a stranger present.  Mrs. Young said that if the state of things inside the house
was not agreeable to the stranger, he could find room outside.  Mr. Young promised the breast-pin,
and she went away.  But in a minute or two another Mrs. Young came in and demanded a breast-pin.
Mr. Young began a remonstrance, but Mrs. Young cut him short.  She said No. 6 had got one,
and No. 11 was promised one, and it was "no use for him to try to impose on her--she hoped
she knew her rights."  He gave his promise, and she went.  And presently three Mrs. Youngs
entered in a body and opened on their husband a tempest of tears, abuse, and entreaty.  They
had heard all about No. 6, No. 11, and No. 14.  Three more breast-pins were promised.  They
were hardly gone when nine more Mrs. Youngs filed into the presence, and a new tempest burst
forth and raged round about the prophet and his guest.  Nine breast-pins were promised, and
the weird sisters filed out again.  And in came eleven more, weeping and wailing and gnashing
their teeth.  Eleven promised breast-pins purchased peace once more.

"That is a specimen," said Mr. Young.  "You see how it is.  You see what a life I lead.  A
man can't be wise all the time.  In a heedless moment I gave my darling No. 6--excuse my calling
her thus, as her other name has escaped me for the moment--a breast-pin.  It was only worth
twenty-five dollars--that is, apparently that was its whole cost--but its ultimate cost was
inevitably bound to be a good deal more.  You yourself have seen it climb up to six hundred
and fifty dollars--and alas, even that is not the end!  For I have wives all over this Territory
of Utah.  I have dozens of wives whose numbers, even, I do not know without looking in the
family Bible.  They are scattered far and wide among the mountains and valleys of my realm.
And mark you, every solitary one of them will hear of this wretched breast pin, and every last
one of them will have one or die.  No. 6's breast pin will cost me twenty-five hundred dollars
before I see the end of it.  And these creatures will compare these pins together, and if one
is a shade finer than the rest, they will all be thrown on my hands, and I will have to order
a new lot to keep peace in the family.  Sir, you probably did not know it, but all the time
you were present with my children your every movement was watched by vigilant servitors of
mine.  If you had offered to give a child a dime, or a stick of candy, or any trifle of the
kind, you would have been snatched out of the house instantly, provided it could be done before
your gift left your hand.  Otherwise it would be absolutely necessary for you to make an exactly
similar gift to all my children--and knowing by experience the importance of the thing, I would
have stood by and seen to it myself that you did it, and did it thoroughly.  Once a gentleman
gave one of my children a tin whistle--a veritable invention of Satan, sir, and one which I
have an unspeakable horror of, and so would you if you had eighty or ninety children in your
house.  But the deed was done--the man escaped.  I knew what the result was going to be, and
I thirsted for vengeance.  I ordered out a flock of Destroying Angels, and they hunted the
man far into the fastnesses of the Nevada mountains.  But they never caught him.  I am not
cruel, sir--I am not vindictive except when sorely outraged--but if I had caught him, sir,
so help me Joseph Smith, I would have locked him into the nursery till the brats whistled him
to death. By the slaughtered body of St. Parley Pratt (whom God assail!) there was never anything
on this earth like it!  I knew who gave the whistle to the child, but I could, not make those
jealous mothers believe me.  They believed I did it, and the result was just what any man of
reflection could have foreseen: I had to order a hundred and ten whistles--I think we had a
hundred and ten children in the house then, but some of them are off at college now--I had
to order a hundred and ten of those shrieking things, and I wish I may never speak another
word if we didn't have to talk on our fingers entirely, from that time forth until the children
got tired of the whistles.  And if ever another man gives a whistle to a child of mine and
I get my hands on him, I will hang him higher than Haman!  That is the word with the bark on
it!  Shade of Nephi!  You don't know anything about married life.  I am rich, and everybody
knows it.  I am benevolent, and everybody takes advantage of it.  I have a strong fatherly
instinct and all the foundlings are foisted on me.

"Every time a woman wants to do well by her darling, she puzzles her brain to cipher out some
scheme for getting it into my hands.  Why, sir, a woman came here once with a child of a curious
lifeless sort of complexion (and so had the woman), and swore that the child was mine and she
my wife--that I had married her at such-and-such a time in such-and-such a place, but she had
forgotten her number, and of course I could not remember her name.  Well, sir, she called my
attention to the fact that the child looked like me, and really it did seem to resemble me--a
common thing in the Territory--and, to cut the story short, I put it in my nursery, and she
left.  And by the ghost of Orson Hyde, when they came to wash the paint off that child it was
an Injun!  Bless my soul, you don't know anything about married life.  It is a perfect dog's
life, sir--a perfect dog's life.  You can't economize.  It isn't possible.  I have tried keeping
one set of bridal attire for all occasions.  But it is of no use.  First you'll marry a combination
of calico and consumption that's as thin as a rail, and next you'll get a creature that's nothing
more than the dropsy in disguise, and then you've got to eke out that bridal dress with an
old balloon.  That is the way it goes.  And think of the wash-bill--(excuse these tears)--nine
hundred and eighty-four pieces a week!  No, sir, there is no such a thing as economy in a family
like mine.  Why, just the one item of cradles--think of it! And vermifuge! Soothing syrup!
Teething rings!  And 'papa's watches' for the babies to play with!  And things to scratch the
furniture with!  And lucifer matches for them to eat, and pieces of glass to cut themselves
with! The item of glass alone would support your family, I venture to say, sir. Let me scrimp
and squeeze all I can, I still can't get ahead as fast as I feel I ought to, with my opportunities.
Bless you, sir, at a time when I had seventy-two wives in this house, I groaned under the pressure
of keeping thousands of dollars tied up in seventy-two bedsteads when the money ought to have
been out at interest; and I just sold out the whole stock, sir, at a sacrifice, and built a
bedstead seven feet long and ninety-six feet wide.  But it was a failure, sir.  I could not
sleep. It appeared to me that the whole seventy-two women snored at once. The roar was deafening.
And then the danger of it!  That was what I was looking at.  They would all draw in their breath
at once, and you could actually see the walls of the house suck in--and then they would all
exhale their breath at once, and you could see the walls swell out, and strain, and hear the
rafters crack, and the shingles grind together. My friend, take an old man's advice, and don't
encumber yourself with a large family--mind, I tell you, don't do it.  In a small family, and
in a small family only, you will find that comfort and that peace of mind which are the best
at last of the blessings this world is able to afford us, and for the lack of which no accumulation
of wealth, and no acquisition of fame, power, and greatness can ever compensate us. Take my
word for it, ten or eleven wives is all you need--never go over it."

Some instinct or other made me set this Johnson down as being unreliable. And yet he was a
very entertaining person, and I doubt if some of the information he gave us could have been
acquired from any other source. He was a pleasant contrast to those reticent Mormons.

CHAPTER XVI.

All men have heard of the Mormon Bible, but few except the "elect" have seen it, or, at least,
taken the trouble to read it.  I brought away a copy from Salt Lake.  The book is a curiosity
to me, it is such a pretentious affair, and yet so "slow," so sleepy; such an insipid mess
of inspiration.  It is chloroform in print.  If Joseph Smith composed this book, the act was
a miracle--keeping awake while he did it was, at any rate.  If he, according to tradition,
merely translated it from certain ancient and mysteriously-engraved plates of copper, which
he declares he found under a stone, in an out-of-the-way locality, the work of translating
was equally a miracle, for the same reason.

The book seems to be merely a prosy detail of imaginary history, with the Old Testament for
a model; followed by a tedious plagiarism of the New Testament.  The author labored to give
his words and phrases the quaint, old-fashioned sound and structure of our King James's translation
of the Scriptures; and the result is a mongrel--half modern glibness, and half ancient simplicity
and gravity.  The latter is awkward and constrained; the former natural, but grotesque by the
contrast.  Whenever he found his speech growing too modern--which was about every sentence
or two--he ladled in a few such Scriptural phrases as "exceeding sore," "and it came to pass,"
etc., and made things satisfactory again.  "And it came to pass" was his pet.  If he had left
that out, his Bible would have been only a pamphlet.

The title-page reads as follows:

      THE BOOK OF MORMON: AN ACCOUNT WRITTEN BY THE HAND OF MORMON, UPON
      PLATES TAKEN FROM THE PLATES OF NEPHI.

      Wherefore it is an abridgment of the record of the people of Nephi,
      and also of the Lamanites; written to the Lamanites, who are a
      remnant of the House of Israel; and also to Jew and Gentile; written
      by way of commandment, and also by the spirit of prophecy and of
      revelation.  Written and sealed up, and hid up unto the Lord, that
      they might not be destroyed; to come forth by the gift and power of
      God unto the interpretation thereof; sealed by the hand of Moroni,
      and hid up unto the Lord, to come forth in due time by the way of
      Gentile; the interpretation thereof by the gift of God.  An
      abridgment taken from the Book of Ether also; which is a record of
      the people of Jared; who were scattered at the time the Lord
      confounded the language of the people when they were building a
      tower to get to Heaven.

"Hid up" is good.  And so is "wherefore"--though why "wherefore"?  Any other word would have
answered as well--though--in truth it would not have sounded so Scriptural.

Some people have to have a world of evidence before they can come anywhere in the neighborhood
of believing anything; but for me, when a man tells me that he has "seen the engravings which
are upon the plates," and not only that, but an angel was there at the time, and saw him see
them, and probably took his receipt for it, I am very far on the road to conviction, no matter
whether I ever heard of that man before or not, and even if I do not know the name of the angel,
or his nationality either.

And when I am far on the road to conviction, and eight men, be they grammatical or otherwise,
come forward and tell me that they have seen the plates too; and not only seen those plates
but "hefted" them, I am convinced.  I could not feel more satisfied and at rest if the entire
Whitmer family had testified.

The Mormon Bible consists of fifteen "books"--being the books of Jacob, Enos, Jarom, Omni,
Mosiah, Zeniff, Alma, Helaman, Ether, Moroni, two "books" of Mormon, and three of Nephi.

In the first book of Nephi is a plagiarism of the Old Testament, which gives an account of
the exodus from Jerusalem of the "children of Lehi"; and it goes on to tell of their wanderings
in the wilderness, during eight years, and their supernatural protection by one of their number,
a party by the name of Nephi.  They finally reached the land of "Bountiful," and camped by
the sea.  After they had remained there "for the space of many days"--which is more Scriptural
than definite--Nephi was commanded from on high to build a ship wherein to "carry the people
across the waters."  He travestied Noah's ark--but he obeyed orders in the matter of the plan.
He finished the ship in a single day, while his brethren stood by and made fun of it--and of
him, too--"saying, our brother is a fool, for he thinketh that he can build a ship."  They
did not wait for the timbers to dry, but the whole tribe or nation sailed the next day.  Then
a bit of genuine nature cropped out, and is revealed by outspoken Nephi with Scriptural frankness--they
all got on a spree! They, "and also their wives, began to make themselves merry, insomuch that
they began to dance, and to sing, and to speak with much rudeness; yea, they were lifted up
unto exceeding rudeness."

Nephi tried to stop these scandalous proceedings; but they tied him neck and heels, and went
on with their lark.  But observe how Nephi the prophet circumvented them by the aid of the
invisible powers:

      And it came to pass that after they had bound me, insomuch that I
      could not move, the compass, which had been prepared of the Lord,
      did cease to work; wherefore, they knew not whither they should
      steer the ship, insomuch that there arose a great storm, yea, a
      great and terrible tempest, and we were driven back upon the waters
      for the space of three days; and they began to be frightened
      exceedingly, lest they should be drowned in the sea; nevertheless
      they did not loose me.  And on the fourth day, which we had been
      driven back, the tempest began to be exceeding sore.  And it came to
      pass that we were about to be swallowed up in the depths of the sea.

Then they untied him.

      And it came to pass after they had loosed me, behold, I took the
      compass, and it did work whither I desired it.  And it came to pass
      that I prayed unto the Lord; and after I had prayed, the winds did
      cease, and the storm did cease, and there was a great calm.

Equipped with their compass, these ancients appear to have had the advantage of Noah.

Their voyage was toward a "promised land"--the only name they give it. They reached it in safety.

Polygamy is a recent feature in the Mormon religion, and was added by Brigham Young after Joseph
Smith's death.  Before that, it was regarded as an "abomination."  This verse from the Mormon
Bible occurs in Chapter II. of the book of Jacob:

      For behold, thus saith the Lord, this people begin to wax in
      iniquity; they understand not the Scriptures; for they seek to
      excuse themselves in committing whoredoms, because of the things
      which were written concerning David, and Solomon his son.

However, the project failed--or at least the modern Mormon end of it--for Brigham "suffers"
it.  This verse is from the same chapter:

      Behold, the Lamanites your brethren, whom ye hate, because of their
      filthiness and the cursings which hath come upon their skins, are
      more righteous than you; for they have not forgotten the commandment
      of the Lord, which was given unto our fathers, that they should
      have, save it were one wife; and concubines they should have none.

The following verse (from Chapter IX. of the Book of Nephi) appears to contain information
not familiar to everybody:

      And now it came to pass that when Jesus had ascended into heaven,
      the multitude did disperse, and every man did take his wife and his
      children, and did return to his own home.

      And it came to pass that on the morrow, when the multitude was
      gathered together, behold, Nephi and his brother whom he had raised
      from the dead, whose name was Timothy, and also his son, whose name
      was Jonas, and also Mathoni, and Mathonihah, his brother, and Kumen,
      and Kumenenhi, and Jeremiah, and Shemnon, and Jonas, and Zedekiah,
      and Isaiah; now these were the names of the disciples whom Jesus had
      chosen.

In order that the reader may observe how much more grandeur and picturesqueness (as seen by
these Mormon twelve) accompanied on of the tenderest episodes in the life of our Saviour than
other eyes seem to have been aware of, I quote the following from the same "book"--Nephi:

      And it came to pass that Jesus spake unto them, and bade them arise.
      And they arose from the earth, and He said unto them, Blessed are ye
      because of your faith.  And now behold, My joy is full.

And what else would they be likely to consist of?

The Book of Ether is an incomprehensible medley of if "history," much of it relating to battles
and sieges among peoples whom the reader has possibly never heard of; and who inhabited a country
which is not set down in the geography.  These was a King with the remarkable name of Coriantumr,^^
and he warred with Shared, and Lib, and Shiz, and others, in the "plains of Heshlon"; and the
"valley of Gilgal"; and the "wilderness of Akish"; and the "land of Moran"; and the "plains
of Agosh"; and "Ogath," and "Ramah," and the "land of Corihor," and the "hill Comnor," by "the
waters of Ripliancum," etc., etc., etc.  "And it came to pass," after a deal of fighting, that
Coriantumr, upon making calculation of his losses, found that "there had been slain two millions
of mighty men, and also their wives and their children"--say 5,000,000 or 6,000,000 in all--"and
he began to sorrow in his heart."  Unquestionably it was time.  So he wrote to Shiz, asking
a cessation of hostilities, and offering to give up his kingdom to save his people.  Shiz declined,
except upon condition that Coriantumr would come and let him cut his head off first--a thing
which Coriantumr would not do.  Then there was more fighting for a season; then four years
were devoted to gathering the forces for a final struggle--after which ensued a battle, which,
I take it, is the most remarkable set forth in history,--except, perhaps, that of the Kilkenny
cats, which it resembles in some respects.  This is the account of the gathering and the battle:

      7.  And it came to pass that they did gather together all the
      people, upon all the face of the land, who had not been slain, save
      it was Ether.  And it came to pass that Ether did behold all the
      doings of the people; and he beheld that the people who were for
      Coriantumr, were gathered together to the army of Coriantumr; and
      the people who were for Shiz, were gathered together to the army of
      Shiz; wherefore they were for the space of four years gathering
      together the people, that they might get all who were upon the face
      of the land, and that they might receive all the strength which it
      was possible that they could receive.  And it came to pass that when
      they were all gathered together, every one to the army which he
      would, with their wives and their children; both men, women, and
      children being armed with weapons of war, having shields, and
      breast-plates, and head-plates, and being clothed after the manner
      of war, they did march forth one against another, to battle; and
      they fought all that day, and conquered not.  And it came to pass
      that when it was night they were weary, and retired to their camps;
      and after they had retired to their camps, they took up a howling
      and a lamentation for the loss of the slain of their people; and so
      great were their cries, their howlings and lamentations, that it did
      rend the air exceedingly.  And it came to pass that on the morrow
      they did go again to battle, and great and terrible was that day;
      nevertheless they conquered not, and when the night came again, they
      did rend the air with their cries, and their howlings, and their
      mournings, for the loss of the slain of their people.

      8.  And it came to pass that Coriantumr wrote again an epistle unto
      Shiz, desiring that he would not come again to battle, but that he
      would take the kingdom, and spare the lives of the people.  But
      behold, the Spirit of the Lord had ceased striving with them, and
      Satan had full power over the hearts of the people, for they were
      given up unto the hardness of their hearts, and the blindness of
      their minds that they might be destroyed; wherefore they went again
      to battle.  And it came to pass that they fought all that day, and
      when the night came they slept upon their swords; and on the morrow
      they fought even until the night came; and when the night came they
      were drunken with anger, even as a man who is drunken with wine; and
      they slept again upon their swords; and on the morrow they fought
      again; and when the night came they had all fallen by the sword save
      it were fifty and two of the people of Coriantumr, and sixty and
      nine of the people of Shiz.  And it came to pass that they slept
      upon their swords that night, and on the morrow they fought again,
      and they contended in their mights with their swords, and with their
      shields, all that day; and when the night came there were thirty and
      two of the people of Shiz, and twenty and seven of the people of
      Coriantumr.

