We waited patiently at the rail for an hour more to see the camels slung aboard by the crane.
It was worth the wait. They lost their impassive and immemorial dignity completely, sprawling,
groaning, positively shrieking in dismay. When the solid deck rose to them, and the sling had
been loosened, however, they regained their poise instantaneously. Their noses went up in the
air, and they looked about them with a challenging, unsmiling superiority, as though to dare
any one of us to laugh. Their native attendants immediately squatted down in front of them,
and began to feed them with convenient lengths of what looked like our common marsh cat-tails.
The camels did not even then manifest the slightest interest in the proceedings. Indeed, they
would not condescend to reach out three inches for the most luscious tit-bit held that far
from their aristocratic noses. The attendants had actually to thrust the fodder between their
jaws. I am glad to say they condescended to chew.

VII.

THE INDIAN OCEAN.

Leaving Aden, and rounding the great promontory of Cape Guardafui, we turned south along the
coast of Africa. Off the cape were strange, oily cross rips and currents on the surface of
the sea; the flying-fish rose in flocks before our bows; high mountains of peaks and flat table
tops thrust their summits into clouds; and along the coast the breakers spouted like whales.
For the first time, too, we began to experience what our preconceptions had imagined as tropical
heat. Heretofore we had been hot enough, in all conscience, but the air had felt as though
wafted from an opened furnace door--dry and scorching. Now, although the temperature was lower,[2]
the humidity was greater. A swooning languor was abroad over the spellbound ocean, a relaxing
mist of enchantment.

My glasses were constantly clouding over with a fine coating of water drops; exposed metal
rusted overnight; the folds in garments accumulated mildew in an astonishingly brief period
of time. There was never even the suggestion of chill in this dampness. It clung and enveloped
like a grateful garment; and seemed only to lack sweet perfume.

At this time, by good fortune, it happened that the moon came full. We had enjoyed its waxing
during our voyage down the Red Sea; but now it had reached its greatest phase, and hung over
the slumbering tropic ocean like a lantern. The lazy sea stirred beneath it, and the ship glided
on, its lights fairly subdued by the splendour of the waters. Under the awnings the ship's
company lounged in lazy attitudes or promenaded slowly, talking low voiced, cigars glowing
in the splendid dusk. Overside, in the furrow of the disturbed waters, the phosphorescence
flashed perpetually beneath the shadow of the ship.

The days passed by languidly and all alike. On the chart outside the smoking-room door the
procession of tiny German flags on pins marched steadily, an inch at a time, towards the south.
Otherwise we might as well have imagined ourselves midgets afloat in a pond and getting nowhere.

Somewhere north of the equator--before Father Neptune in ancient style had come aboard and
ducked the lot of us--we were treated to the spectacle of how the German "sheep" reacts under
a joke. Each nation has its type of fool; and all, for the joyousness of mankind, differ. On
the bulletin board one evening appeared a notice to the effect that the following morning a
limited number of sportsmen would be permitted ashore for the day. Each was advised to bring
his own lunch, rifle, and drinks. The reason alleged was that the ship must round a certain
cape across which the sportsmen could march afoot in sufficient time to permit them a little
shooting.

Now aboard ship were a dozen English, four Americans, and thirty or forty Germans. The Americans
and English looked upon that bulletin, smiled gently, and went to order another round of lemon
squashes. It was a meek, mild, little joke enough; but surely the bulletin board was as far
as it could possibly go. Next morning, however, we observed a half-dozen of our German friends
in khaki and sun helmet, very busy with lunch boxes, bottles of beer, rifles, and the like.
They said they were going ashore as per bulletin. We looked at each other and hied us to the
upper deck. There we found one of the boats slung overside, with our old friend the quartermaster
ostentatiously stowing kegs of water, boxes, and the like.

"When," we inquired gently, "does the expedition start?"

"At ten o'clock," said he.

It was now within fifteen minutes of that hour.

We were at the time fully ten miles off shore, and forging ahead full speed parallel with the
coast.

We pointed out this fact to the quartermaster, but found, to our sorrow, that the poor old
man had suddenly gone deaf! We therefore refrained from asking several other questions that
had occurred to us--such as, why the cape was not shown on the map.

"Somebody," said one of the Americans, a cowboy going out second class on the look for new
cattle country, "is a goat. It sure looks to me like it was these yere steamboat people. They
can't expect to rope nothing on such a raw deal as this!"

To which the English assented, though in different idiom.

But now up the companion ladder struggled eight serious-minded individuals herded by the second
mate. They were armed to the teeth, and thoroughly equipped with things I had seen in German
catalogues, but in whose existence I had never believed. A half-dozen sailors eagerly helped
them with their multitudinous effects. Not a thought gave they to the fact that we were ten
miles off the coast, that we gave no indication of slackening speed, that it would take the
rest of the day to row ashore, that there was no cape for us to round, that if there were--oh!
all the other hundred improbabilities peculiar to the situation. Under direction of the mate
they deposited their impedimenta beneath a tarpaulin, and took their places in solemn rows
amidships across the thwarts of the boat slung overside. The importance of the occasion sat
upon them heavily; they were going ashore--in Africa--to Slay Wild Beasts. They looked upon
themselves as of bolder, sterner stuff than the rest of us.

When the procession first appeared, our cowboy's face for a single instant had flamed with
amazed incredulity. Then a mask of expressionless stolidity fell across his features, which
in no line thereafter varied one iota.

"What are they going to do with them?" murmured one of the Englishmen, at a loss.

"I reckon," said the cowboy, "that they look on this as the easiest way to drown them all to onct."

Then from behind one of the other boats suddenly appeared a huge German sailor with a hose.
The devoted imbeciles in the shore boat were drenched as by a cloud-burst. Back and forth and
up and down the heavy stream played, while every other human being about the ship shrieked
with joy. Did the victims rise up in a body and capture that hose nozzle and turn the stream
to sweep the decks? Did they duck for shelter? Did they at least know enough to scatter and
run? They did none of these things; but sat there in meek little rows like mannikins until
the boat was half full of water and everything awash. Then, when the sailor shut off the stream,
they continued to sit there until the mate came to order them out. Why? I cannot tell you.
Perhaps that is the German idea of how to take a joke. Perhaps they were afraid worse things
might be consequent on resistance. Perhaps they still hoped to go ashore. One of the Englishmen
asked just that question.

"What," he demanded disgustedly, "what is the matter with the beggars?"

Our cowboy may have had the correct solution. He stretched his long legs and jumped down from
the rail.

"Nothing stirring above the ears," said he.

It is customary in books of travel to describe this part of the journey somewhat as follows:
"Skirting the low and uninteresting shores of Africa we at length reached," etc. Low and uninteresting
shores! Through the glasses we made out distant mountains far beyond nearer hills. The latter
were green-covered with dense forests whence rose mysterious smokes. Along the shore we saw
an occasional cocoanut plantation to the water's edge and native huts and villages of thatch.
Canoes of strange models lay drawn up on shelving beaches; queer fish-pounds of brush reached
out considerable distances from the coast. The white surf pounded on a yellow beach.

All about these things was the jungle, hemming in the plantations and villages, bordering the
lagoons, creeping down until it fairly overhung the yellow beaches; as though, conqueror through
all the country beyond, it were half-inclined to dispute dominion with old Ocean himself. It
looked from the distance like a thick, soft coverlet thrown down over the country; following--or,
rather, suggesting--the inequalities. Through the glasses we were occasionally able to peep
under the edge of this coverlet, and see where the fringe of the jungle drew back in a little
pocket, or to catch the sheen of mysterious dark rivers slipping to the sea. Up these dark
rivers, by way of the entrances of these tiny pockets, the imagination then could lead on into
the dimness beneath the sunlit upper surfaces.

Towards the close of one afternoon we changed our course slightly, and swung in on a long slant
towards the coast. We did it casually; too casually for so very important an action, for now
at last we were about to touch the mysterious continent. Then we saw clearer the fine, big
groves of palm and the luxuriance of the tropical vegetation. Against the greenery, bold and
white, shone the buildings of Mombasa; and after a little while we saw an inland glitter that
represented her narrow, deep bay, the stern of a wreck against the low, green cliffs, and strange,
fat-trunked squat trees without leaves. Straight past all this we glided at half speed, then
turned sharp to the right to enter a long wide expanse like a river, with green banks, twenty
feet or so in height, grown thickly with the tall cocoanut palms. These gave way at times into
broad, low lagoons, at the end of which were small beaches and boats, and native huts among
more cocoanut groves. Through our glasses we could see the black men watching us, quite motionless,
squatted on their heels.

It was like suddenly entering another world, this gliding from the open sea straight into the
heart of a green land. The ceaseless wash of waves we had left outside with the ocean; our
engines had fallen silent. Across the hushed waters came to us strange chantings and the beating
of a tom-tom, an occasional shrill shout from the unknown jungle. The sun was just set, and
the tops of the palms caught the last rays; all below was dense green shadow. Across the surface
of the water glided dug-out canoes of shapes strange to us. We passed ancient ruins almost
completely dismantled, their stones half smothered in green rank growth. The wide river-like
bay stretched on before us as far as the waning light permitted us to see; finally losing itself
in the heart of mystery.

Steadily and confidently our ship steamed forward, until at last, when we seemed to be afloat
in a land-locked lake, we dropped anchor and came to rest.

Darkness fell utterly before the usual quarantine regulations had been carried through. Active
and efficient agents had already taken charge of our affairs, so we had only to wait idly by
the rail until summoned. Then we jostled our way down the long gangway, passed and repassed
by natives carrying baggage or returning for more baggage, stepped briskly aboard a very bobby
little craft, clambered over a huge pile of baggage, and stowed ourselves as best we could.
A figure in a long white robe sat astern, tiller ropes in hand; two half-naked blacks far up
towards the prow manipulated a pair of tremendous sweeps. With a vast heaving, jabbering, and
shouting, our boat disengaged itself from the swarm of other craft. We floated around the stern
of our ship, and were immediately suspended in blackness dotted with the stars and their reflections,
and with various twinkling scattered lights. To one of these we steered, and presently touched
at a stone quay with steps. At last we set foot on the land to which so long we had journeyed
and towards which our expectations had grown so great. We experienced "the pleasure that touches
the souls of men landing on strange shores."

FOOTNOTES:

[2] 82-88° degrees in daytime, and 75-83° degrees at night.

VIII.

MOMBASA.

A single light shone at the end of the stone quay, and another inside a big indeterminate building
at some distance. We stumbled towards this, and found it to be the biggest shed ever constructed
out of corrugated iron. A bearded Sikh stood on guard at its open entrance. He let any one
and every one enter, with never a flicker of his expressionless black eyes; but allowed no
one to go out again without the closest scrutiny for dutiable articles that lacked the blue
customs plaster. We entered. The place was vast and barnlike and dim, and very, very hot. A
half-dozen East Indians stood behind the counters; another, a babu, sat at a little desk ready
to give his clerical attention to what might be required. We saw no European; but next morning
found that one passed his daylight hours in this inferno of heat. For the moment we let our
main baggage go, and occupied ourselves only with getting through our smaller effects. This
accomplished, we stepped out past the Sikh into the grateful night.

We had as guide a slender and wiry individual clad in tarboush and long white robe. In a vague,
general way we knew that the town of Mombasa was across the island and about four miles distant.
In what direction or how we got there we had not the remotest idea.

The guide set off at a brisk pace with which we tried in vain to keep step. He knew the ground,
and we did not; and the night was black dark. Commands to stop were of no avail whatever; nor
could we get hold of him to restrain him by force. When we put on speed he put on speed too.
His white robe glimmered ahead of us just in sight; and in the darkness other white robes,
passing and crossing, glimmered also. At first the ground was rough, so that we stumbled outrageously.
Billy and B. soon fell behind, and I heard their voices calling plaintively for us to slow
down a bit.

"If I ever lose this nigger, I'll never find him again," I shouted back, "but I can find you.
Do the best you can!"

We struck a smoother road that led up a hill on a long slant. Apparently for miles we followed
thus, the white-robed individual ahead still deaf to all commands and the blood-curdling threats
I had now come to uttering. All our personal baggage had long since mysteriously disappeared,
ravished away from us at the customs house by a ragged horde of blacks. It began to look as
though we were stranded in Africa without baggage or effects. Billy and B. were all the time
growing fainter in the distance, though evidently they too had struck the long, slanting road.

Then we came to a dim, solitary lantern glowing feebly beside a bench at what appeared to be
the top of the hill. Here our guide at last came to a halt and turned to me a grinning face.

"Samama hapa," he observed.

There! That was the word I had been frantically searching my memory for! Samama--stop!

The others struggled in. We were very warm. Up to the bench led a tiny car track, the rails
not over two feet apart, like the toy railroads children use. This did not look much like grownup
transportation, but it and the bench and the dim lantern represented all the visible world.

We sat philosophically on the bench and enjoyed the soft tropical night. The air was tepid,
heavy with unknown perfume, black as a band of velvet across the eyes, musical with the subdued
undertones of a thousand thousand night insects. At points overhead the soft blind darkness
melted imperceptibly into stars.

After a long interval we distinguished a distant faint rattling, that each moment increased
in loudness. Shortly came into view along the narrow tracks a most extraordinary vehicle. It
was a small square platform on wheels, across which ran a bench seat, and over which spread
a canopy. It carried also a dim lantern. This rumbled up to us and stopped. From its stern
hopped two black boys. Obeying a smiling invitation, we took our places on the bench. The two
boys immediately set to pushing us along the narrow track.

We were off at an astonishing speed through the darkness. The night was deliciously tepid;
and, as I have said, absolutely dark. We made out the tops of palms and the dim loom of great
spreading trees, and could smell sweet, soft odours. The bare-headed, lightly-clad boys pattered
alongside whenever the grade was easy, one hand resting against the rail; or pushed mightily
up little hills; or clung alongside like monkeys while we rattled and swooped and plunged down
hill into the darkness. Subsequently we learned that a huge flat beam projecting amidships
from beneath the seat operated a brake which we above were supposed to manipulate; but being
quite ignorant as to the ethics and mechanics of this strange street-car system, we swung and
swayed at times quite breathlessly.

After about fifteen minutes we began to pick up lights ahead, then to pass dimly-seen garden
walls with trees whose brilliant flowers the lantern revealed fitfully. At last we made out
white stucco houses, and shortly drew up with a flourish before the hotel itself.

This was a two-story stucco affair, with deep verandas sunken in at each story. It fronted
a wide white street facing a public garden; and this, we subsequently discovered, was about
the only clear and open space in all the narrow town. Antelope horns were everywhere hung on
the walls; and teakwood easy-chairs, with rests on which comfortably to elevate your feet above
your head, stood all about. We entered a bare, brick-floored dining-room, and partook of tropical
fruits quite new to us--papayes, mangoes, custard apples, pawpaws, and the small red eating
bananas too delicate for export. Overhead the punkahs swung back and forth in lazy hypnotic
rhythm. We could see the two blacks at the ends of the punkah cords outside on the veranda,
their bodies swaying lithely in alternation as they threw their weight against the light ropes.
Other blacks, in the long white robes and exquisitely worked white skull caps of the Swahili,
glided noiselessly on bare feet, serving.

After dinner we sat out until midnight in the teakwood chairs of the upper gallery, staring
through the arches into the black, mysterious night, for it was very hot, and we rather dreaded
the necessary mosquito veils as likely to prove stuffy. The mosquitoes are few in Mombasa,
but they are very deadly--very. At midnight the thermometer stood 87° F.

Our premonitions as to stuffiness were well justified. After a restless night we came awake
at daylight to the sound of a fine row of some sort going on outside in the streets. Immediately
we arose, threw aside the lattices, and hung out over the sill.

The chalk-white road stretched before us. Opposite was a public square, grown with brilliant
flowers, and flowering trees. We could not doubt the cause of the trouble. An Indian on a bicycle,
hurrying to his office, had knocked down a native child. Said child, quite naked, sat in the
middle of the white dust and howled to rend the heavens--whenever he felt himself observed.
If, however, the attention of the crowd happened for the moment to be engrossed with the babu,
the injured one sat up straight and watched the row with interested, rolling, pickaninny eyes.
A native policeman made the centre of a whirling, vociferating group. He was a fine-looking
chap, straight and soldierly, dressed in red tarboosh, khaki coat bound close around the waist
by yards and yards of broad red webbing, loose, short drawers of khaki, bare knees and feet,
and blue puttees between. His manner was inflexible. The babu jabbered excitedly; telling,
in all probability, how he was innocent of fault, was late for his work, etc. In vain. He had
to go; also the kid, who now, seeing himself again an object of interest, recommenced his howling.
Then the babu began frantically to indicate members of the crowd whom he desired to retain
as witnesses. Evidently not pleased with the prospect of appearing in court, those indicated
promptly ducked and ran. The policeman as promptly pursued and collared them one by one. He
was a long-legged policeman, and he ran well. The moment he laid hands on a fugitive, the latter
collapsed; whereupon the policeman dropped him and took after another. The joke of it was that
the one so abandoned did not try again to make off, but stayed as though he had been tagged
at some game. Finally the whole lot, still vociferating, moved off down the white road.

For over an hour we hung from our window sill, thoroughly interested and amused by the varied
life that deployed before our eyes. The morning seemed deliciously cool after the hot night,
although the thermometer stood high. The sky was very blue, with big piled white clouds down
near the horizon. Dazzling sun shone on the white road, the white buildings visible up and
down the street, the white walls enclosing their gardens, and the greenery and colours of the
trees within them. For from what we could see from our window we immediately voted tropical
vegetation quite up to advertisement: whole trees of gaudy red or yellow or bright orange blossoms,
flowering vines, flowering shrubs, peered over the walls or through the fences; and behind
them rose great mangoes or the slenderer shafts of bananas and cocoanut palms.

Up and down wandered groups of various sorts of natives. A month later we would have been able
to identify their different tribes and to know more about them; but now we wondered at them,
as strange and picturesque peoples. They impressed us in general as being a fine lot of men,
for they were of good physique, carried themselves well, and looked about them with a certain
dignity and independence, a fine free pride of carriage and of step. This fact alone differentiated
them from our own negroes; but, further, their features were in general much finer, and their
skins of a clear mahogany beautiful in its satiny texture. Most--and these were the blackest--wore
long white robes and fine openwork skull caps. They were the local race, the Swahili, had we
but known it; the original "Zanzibari" who furnished Livingstone, Stanley, Speke, and the other
early explorers with their men. Others, however, were much less "civilized." We saw one "Cook's
tour from the jungle" consisting of six savages, their hair twisted into innumerable points,
their ear lobes stretched to hang fairly to their shoulders, wearing only a rather neglectful
blanket, adorned with polished wire, carrying war clubs and bright spears. They followed, with
eyes and mouths open, a very sophisticated-looking city cousin in the usual white garments,
swinging a jaunty, light bamboo cane. The cane seems to be a distinguishing mark of the leisured
class. It not only means that you are not working, but also that you have no earthly desire
to work.

About this time one of the hotel boys brought the inevitable chota-hazri--the tea and biscuits
of early morning. For this once it was very welcome.

Our hotel proved to be on the direct line of freighting. There are no horses or draught animals
in Mombasa; the fly is too deadly. Therefore all hauling is done by hand. The tiny tracks of
the unique street car system run everywhere any one would wish to go; branching off even into
private grounds and to the very front doors of bungalows situated far out of town. Each resident
owns his own street car, just as elsewhere a man has his own carriage. There are, of course,
public cars also, each with its pair of boys to push it; and also a number of rather decrepit
rickshaws. As a natural corollary to the passenger traffic, the freighting also is handled
by the blacks on large flat trucks with short guiding poles. These men are quite naked save
for a small loin cloth; are beautifully shaped; and glisten all over with perspiration shining
in the sun. So fine is the texture of their skins, the softness of their colour--so rippling
the play of muscles--that this shining perspiration is like a beautiful polish. They rush from
behind, slowly and steadily, and patiently and unwaveringly, the most tremendous loads of the
heaviest stuffs. When the hill becomes too steep for them, they turn their backs against the
truck; and by placing one foot behind the other, a few inches at a time, they edge their burden
up the slope.

The steering is done by one man at the pole or tongue in front. This individual also sets the
key to the song by which in Africa all heavy labour is carried forward. He cries his wavering
shrill-voiced chant; the toilers utter antiphony in low gruff tones. At a distance one hears
only the wild high syncopated chanting; but as the affair draws slowly nearer, he catches the
undertone of the responses. These latter are cast in the regular swing and rhythm of effort;
but the steersman throws in his bit at odd and irregular intervals. Thus:

Headman (shrill): "Hay, ah mon!"

Pushers (gruff in rhythm): "Tunk!--tunk!--tunk!--" or:

Headman (and wavering minor chant): "Ah--nah--nee--e-e-e!"

Pushers (undertone): "Umbwa--jo-e! Um-bwa--jo--e!"

These wild and barbaric chantings--in the distance; near at hand; dying into distance again--slow,
dogged, toilsome, came to be to us one of the typical features of the place.

After breakfast we put on our sun helmets and went forth curiously to view the town. We found
it roughly divided into four quarters--the old Portuguese, the Arabic, the European, and the
native. The Portuguese comprises the outer fringe next the water-front of the inner bay. It
is very narrow of street, with whitewashed walls, balconies, and wonderful carven and studded
doors. The business of the town is done here. The Arabic quarter lies back of it--a maze of
narrow alleys winding aimlessly here and there between high white buildings, with occasionally
the minarets and towers of a mosque. This district harboured, besides the upper-class Swahilis
and Arabs, a large number of East Indians. Still back of this are thousands of the low grass,
or mud and wattle huts of the natives, their roofs thatched with straw or palm. These are apparently
arranged on little system. The small European population lives atop the sea bluffs beyond the
old fort in the most attractive bungalows. This, the most desirable location of all, has remained
open to them because heretofore the fierce wars with which Mombasa, "the Island of Blood,"
has been swept have made the exposed seaward lands impossible.

No idle occupation can be more fascinating than to wander about the mazes of this ancient town.
The variety of race and occupation is something astounding. Probably the one human note that,
everywhere persisting, draws the whole together is furnished by the water-carriers. Mombasa
has no water system whatever. The entire supply is drawn from numberless picturesque wells
scattered everywhere in the crowded centre, and distributed mainly in Standard Oil cans suspended
at either end of a short pole. By dint of constant daily exercise, hauling water up from a
depth and carrying it various distances, these men have developed the most beautifully powerful
figures. They proceed at a half trot, the slender poles, with forty pounds at either end, seeming
fairly to cut into their naked shoulders, muttering a word of warning to the loiterers at every
other breath--semeelay! semeelay! No matter in what part of Mombasa you may happen to be, or
at what hour of the day or night, you will meet these industrious little men trotting along
under their burdens.

Everywhere also are the women, carrying themselves proudly erect, with a free swing of the
hips. They wear invariably a single sheet of cotton cloth printed in blue or black with the
most astonishing borders and spotty designs. This is drawn tight just above the breasts, leaving
the shoulders and arms bare. Their hair is divided into perhaps a dozen parts running lengthwise
of the head from the forehead to the nape of the neck, after the manner of the stripes on a
watermelon. Each part then ends in a tiny twisted pigtail not over an inch long. The lobes
of their ears have been stretched until they hold thick round disks about three inches in diameter,
ornamented by concentric circles of different colours, with a red bull's eye for a centre.
The outer edges of the ears are then further decorated with gold clasps set closely together.
Many bracelets, necklaces, and armlets complete the get-up. They are big women, with soft velvety
skins and a proud and haughty carriage--the counterparts of the men in the white robes and caps.

By the way, it may be a good place here to remark that these garments, and the patterned squares
of cloth worn by the women, are invariably most spotlessly clean.

These, we learned, were the Swahilis, the ruling class, the descendants of the slave traders.
Beside them are all sorts and conditions. Your true savage pleased his own fancy as to dress
and personal adornment. The bushmen generally shaved the edges of their wool to leave a nice
close-fitting natural skull cap, wore a single blanket draped from one shoulder, and carried
a war club. The ear lobe seemed always to be stretched; sometimes sufficiently to have carried
a pint bottle. Indeed, white marmalade jars seemed to be very popular wear. One ingenious person
had acquired a dozen of the sort of safety pins used to fasten curtains to their rings. These
he had snapped into the lobes, six on a side.

We explored for some time. One of the Swahilis attached himself to us so unobtrusively that
before we knew it we had accepted him as guide. In that capacity he realized an ideal, for
he never addressed a word to us, nor did he even stay in sight. We wandered along at our sweet
will, dawdling as slowly as we pleased. The guide had apparently quite disappeared. Look where
we would we could in no manner discover him. At the next corner we would pause, undecided as
to what to do; there, in the middle distance, would stand our friend, smiling. When he was
sure we had seen him, and were about to take the turn properly, he would disappear again. Convoyed
in this pleasant fashion we wound and twisted up and down and round and about through the most
appalling maze. We saw the native markets with their vociferating sellers seated cross-legged
on tables behind piles of fruit or vegetables, while an equally vociferating crowd surged up
and down the aisles. Gray parrots and little monkeys perched everywhere about. Billy gave one
of the monkeys a banana. He peeled it exactly as a man would have done, smelt it critically,
and threw it back at her in the most insulting fashion. We saw also the rows of Hindu shops
open to the street, with their gaudily dressed children of blackened eyelids, their stolid
dirty proprietors, and their women marvellous in bright silks and massive bangles. In the thatched
native quarter were more of the fine Swahili women sitting cross-legged on the earth under
low verandas, engaged in different handicrafts; and chickens; and many amusing naked children.
We made friends with many of them, communicating by laughter and by signs, while our guide
stood unobtrusively in the middle distance waiting for us to come on. Just at sunset he led
us out to a great open space, with a tall palm in the centre of it and the gathering of a multitude
of people. A mollah was clambering into a high scaffold built of poles, whence shortly he began
to intone a long-drawn-out "Allah! Allah! il Allah!" The cocoanut palms cut the sunset, and
the boabab trees--the fat, lazy boababs--looked more monstrous than ever. We called our guide
and conferred on him the munificent sum of sixteen and a half cents; with which, apparently
much pleased, he departed. Then slowly we wandered back to the hotel.

PART II.

THE SHIMBA HILLS.

IX.

A TROPICAL JUNGLE.

Many months later, and after adventures elsewhere described,[3] besides others not relevant
for the moment, F., an Englishman, and I returned to Mombasa. We came from some hundred odd
miles in the interior where we had been exploring the sources and the course of the Tsavo River.
Now our purpose was to penetrate into the low, hot, wooded country along the coast known as
the Shimba Hills in quest of a rare beast called the sable antelope.

These hills could be approached in one of two ways--by crossing the harbour, and then marching
two days afoot; or by voyaging up to the very end of one of the long arms of the sea that extend
many miles inland. The latter involved dhows, dependence on uncertain winds, favourable tides,
and a heap of good luck. It was less laborious but most uncertain. At this stage of the plan
the hotel manager came forward with the offer of a gasoline launch, which we gladly accepted.

We embarked about noon, storing our native carriers and effects aboard a dhow hired for the
occasion. This we purposed towing. A very neatly uniformed Swahili bearing on his stomach a
highly-polished brass label as big as a door plate--"Harbour Police"--threw duck fists over
what he called overloading the boat. He knew very little about boats, but threw very competent
duck fists. As we did know something about boats, we braved unknown consequences by disregarding
him utterly. No consequences ensued--unless perhaps to his own health. When everything was
aboard, that dhow was pretty well down, but still well afloat. Then we white men took our places
in the launch.

This was a long narrow affair with a four-cylinder thirty-horsepower engine. As she possessed
no speed gears, she had either to plunge ahead full speed or come to a stop; there were no
compromises. Her steering was managed by a tiller instead of a wheel, so that a mere touch
sufficed to swerve her ten feet from her course. As the dhow was in no respects built on such
nervous lines, she did occasionally some fancy and splashing curves.

The pilot of the launch turned out to be a sandy-haired Yankee who had been catching wild animals
for Barnum and Bailey's circus. While waiting for his ship, he, being a proverbial handy Yankee,
had taken on this job. He became quite interested in telling us this, and at times forgot his
duties at the tiller. Then that racing-launch would take a wild swoop; the clumsy old dhow
astern would try vainly, with much spray and dangerous careening, to follow; the compromise
course would all but upset her; the spray would fly; the safari boys would take their ducking;
the boat boys would yell and dance and lean frantically against the two long sweeps with which
they tried to steer. In this wild and untrammelled fashion we careered up the bay, too interested
in our own performances to pay much attention to the scenery. The low shores, with their cocoanut
groves gracefully rising above the mangrove tangle, slipped by, and the distant blue Shimba
Hills came nearer.

After a while we turned into a narrower channel with a good many curves and a quite unknown
depth of water. Down this we whooped at the full speed of our thirty-horsepower engine. Occasional
natives, waist deep and fishing, stared after us open-eyed. The Yankee ventured a guess as
to how hard she would hit on a mudbank. She promptly proved his guess a rank underestimate
by doing so. We fell in a heap on the bottom. The dhow bore down on us with majestic momentum.
The boat boys leaned frantically on their sweeps, and managed just to avoid us. The dhow also
rammed the mudbank. A dozen reluctant boys hopped overboard and pushed us off. We pursued our
merry way again. On either hand now appeared fish weirs of plaited coco fibre; which, being
planted in the shallows, helped us materially to guess at the channel. Naked men, up to their
shoulders in the water, attended to some mysterious need of the nets, or emerged dripping and
sparkling from the water with baskets of fish atop their heads. The channel grew even narrower,
and the mudbanks more frequent. We dodged a dozen in our headlong course. Our local guide,
a Swahili in tarboosh and a beautiful saffron robe, showed signs of strong excitement. We were
to stop, he said, around the next bend; and at this rate we never could stop. The Yankee remarked,
superfluously, that it would be handy if this dod-blistered engine had a clutch; adding, as
an afterthought, that no matter how long he stayed in the tropics his nose peeled. We asked
what we should do if we over-carried our prospective landing-place. He replied that the dod-blistered
thing did have a reverse. While thus conversing we shot around a corner into a complete cul-de-sac!
Everything was shut off hastily, and an instant later we and the dhow smashed up high and dry
on a cozy mud beach! We drew a deep breath and looked around us.

Mangrove thicket to the edge of the slimy ooze; trees behind--that was all we could see. We
gave our attention to the business of getting our men, our effects, and ourselves ashore. The
ooze proved to be just above knee deep. The porters had a fearful and floundering time, and
received much obvious comment from us perched in the bow of the launch. Finally everything
was debarked. F. and I took off our boots; but our gunbearers expressed such horror at the
mere thought of our plunging into the mud, that we dutifully climbed them pick-a-back and were
carried. The hard shell beach was a hundred feet away, occupying a little recess where the
persistent tough mangroves drew back. From it led a narrow path through the thicket. We waved
and shouted a farewell to the crews of the launch and the dhow.

The path for a hundred feet was walled in by the mangroves through which scuttled and rattled
the big land crabs. Then suddenly we found ourselves in a story-book tropical paradise. The
tall coco palms rose tufted above everything; the fans of the younger palms waved below; bananas
thrust the banners of their broad leaves wherever they could find space; creepers and vines
flung the lush luxuriance of their greenery over all the earth and into the depths of all the
half-guessed shadows. In no direction could one see unobstructed farther than twenty feet,
except straight up; and there one could see just as far as the tops of the palms. It was like
being in a room--a green, hot, steamy, lovely room. Very bright-coloured birds that ought really
to have been at home in their cages fluttered about.

We had much vigorous clearing to do to make room for our tents. By the time the job was finished
we were all pretty hot. Several of the boys made vain attempts to climb for nuts, but without
success. We had brought them with us from the interior, where cocoanuts do not grow; and they
did not understand the method. They could swarm up the tall slim stems all right, but could
not manage to get through the downward-pointing spikes of the dead leaves. F. tried and failed,
to the great amusement of the men, but to the greater amusement of myself. I was a wise person,
and lay on my back on a canvas cot, so it was not much bother to look up and enjoy life. Not
to earn absolutely the stigma of laziness, I tried to shoot some nuts down. This did not work
either, for the soft, spongy stems closed around the bullet holes. Then a little wizened monkey
of a Swahili porter, having watched our futile performances with interest, nonchalantly swarmed
up; in some mysterious manner he wriggled through the defences, and perched in the top, whence
he dropped to us a dozen big green nuts. Our men may not have been much of a success at climbing
for nuts; but they were passed masters at the art of opening them. Three or four clips from
their awkward swordlike pangas, and we were each presented with a clean, beautiful, natural
goblet brimming full of a refreshing drink.

About this time a fine figure of a man drifted into camp. He was very smooth-skinned, very
dignified, very venerable. He was pure Swahili, though of the savage branch of that race, and
had none of the negro type of countenance. In fact, so like was he in face, hair, short square
beard and genial dignity to a certain great-uncle of mine that it was very hard to remember
that he had on only a small strip of cloth, that he was cherishing as a great treasure a piece
of soap box he had salvaged from the shore, and that his skin was red chocolate. I felt inclined
to talk to him as to an intellectual equal, especially as he had a fine resonant bass voice
that in itself lent his remarks some importance. However, I gave him two ordinary wood screws,
showed him how they screwed in and out, and left him happy.

After supper the moon rose, casting shadows of new and unknown shapes through this strangely
new and unknown forest. A thin white mist ascending everywhere from the soil tempered but could
not obscure the white brilliance. The thermometer stood now only at 82°, but the dripping tropical
sweat-bath in which our camp was pitched considerably raised the sensible heat. A bird with
a most diabolical shrieking note cursed in the shadows. Another, a pigeon-like creature, began
softly, and continued to repeat in diminishing energy until it seemed to have run down, like
a piece of clockwork.

Our way next morning led for some time through this lovely but damp jungle. Then we angled
up the side of a hill to emerge into the comparatively open country atop what we Westerners
would call a "hog's back"--a long narrow spurlike ridge mounting slowly to the general elevation
of the main hills. Here were high green bushes, with little free open passages between them,
and occasionally meadow-like openings running down the slopes on one side or the other. Before
us, some miles distant, were the rounded blue hills.

We climbed steadily. It was still very early morning, but already the day was hot. Pretty soon
we saw over the jungle to the gleaming waters of the inlet, and then to the sea. Our "hog's
back" led us past a ridge of the hills, and before we knew it we had been deposited in a shallow
valley three or four miles wide between parallel ridges; the said valley being at a considerable
elevation, and itself diversified with rolling hills, ravines, meadow land, and wide flats.
On many of the ridges were scattered cocoanut palms, and occasional mango groves, while many
smokes attested the presence of natives.

These we found in shambas or groups of little farms, huddled all together, with wilderness
and brush and trees, or the wide open green grass lawn between. The houses were very large
and neat-looking. They were constructed quite ingeniously from coco branches. Each branch made
one mat. The leaves were all brought over to the same side of the stem, and then plaited. The
resulting mat was then six or seven feet long by from twelve to sixteen inches broad, and could
be used for a variety of purposes. Indeed, we found Melville's chapter in "Typhee" as to the
various uses of the cocoanut palm by no means exaggerated. The nuts, leaves, and fibre supplied
every conceivable human want.

The natives were a pleasant, friendly, good-looking lot. In fact, so like was their cast of
countenance to that of the white-skinned people we were accustomed to see that we had great
difficulty in realizing that they were mere savages, costume--or lack of it--to the contrary
notwithstanding. Under a huge mango tree two were engaged in dividing a sheep. Sixty or seventy
others stood solemnly around watching. It may have been a religious ceremony, for all I know;
but the affair looked to be about two parts business to sixty of idle and cheerful curiosity.
We stopped and talked to them a little, chaffed the pretty girls--they were really pretty--and
marched on.

About noon our elegant guide stopped, struck an attitude, and pointed with his silver-headed
rattan cane.

"This," said he, "is where we must camp."

We marched through a little village. A family party sat beneath the veranda of a fine building--a
very old wrinkled couple; two stalwart beautiful youths; a young mother suckling her baby;
two young girls; and eight or ten miscellaneous and naked youngsters. As the rest of the village
appeared to be empty, I imagined this to be the caretaker's family, and the youngsters to belong
to others. We stopped and spoke, were answered cheerfully, suggested that we might like to
buy chickens, and offered a price. Instantly with a whoop of joy the lot of them were afoot.
The fowl waited for no further intimations of troublous times, but fled squawking. They had
been there before. So had our hosts; for inside a minute they had returned, each with a chicken--and
a broad grin.

After due payment we proceeded on a few hundred yards, and pitched camp beneath two huge mango
trees.

Besides furnishing one of the most delicious of the tropical fruits, the mango is also one
of the most beautiful of trees. It is tall, spreads very wide, and its branches sweep to within
ten feet of the ground. Its perfect symmetry combined with the size and deep green of its leaves
causes it to resemble, from a short distance, a beautiful green hill. Beneath its umbrella
one finds dense shade, unmottled by a single ray of sunlight, so that one can lie under it
in full confidence. For, parenthetically, even a single ray of this tropical sunlight is to
the unprotected a very dangerous thing. But the leaves of the mango have this peculiarity,
which distinguishes it from all other trees--namely, that they grow only at the very ends of
the small twigs and branches. As these, of course, grow only at the ends of the big limbs,
it follows that from beneath the mango looks like a lofty green dome, a veritable pantheon
of the forest.

We made our camp under one of these trees; gave ourselves all the space we could use; and had
plenty left over--five tents and a cook camp, with no crowding. It was one of the pleasantest
camps I ever saw. Our green dome overhead protected us absolutely from the sun; high sweet
grass grew all about us; the breeze wandered lazily up from the distant Indian Ocean. Directly
before our tent door the slope fell gently away through a sparse cocoanut grove whose straight
stems panelled our view, then rose again to the clear-cut outline of a straight ridge opposite.
The crest of this was sentinelled by tall scattered cocoanut trees, the "bursting star" pyrotechnic
effect of their tops being particularly fine against the sky.

After a five hours' tropical march uphill we were glad to sit under our green dome, to look
at our view, to enjoy the little breeze, and to drink some of the cocoanuts our friends the
villagers brought in.

FOOTNOTES:

[3] "The Land of Footprints."

X.

THE SABLE.

About three o'clock I began to feel rested and ambitious. Therefore I called up our elegant
guide and Memba Sasa, and set out on my first hunt for sable. F. was rather more done up by
the hard morning, and so did not go along. The guide wore still his red tarboosh, his dark
short jacket, his saffron yellow nether garment--it was not exactly a skirt--and his silver-headed
rattan cane. The only change he made was to tuck up the skirt, leaving his long legs bare.
It hardly seemed altogether a suitable costume for hunting; but he seemed to know what he was
about.

We marched along ridges, and down into ravines, and across gulleys choked with brush. Horrible
thickets alternated with and occasionally surrounded open green meadows hanging against the
side hills. As we proceeded, the country became rougher, the ravines more precipitous. We struggled
up steep hills, fairly bucking our way through low growth that proved all but impenetrable.
The idea was to find a sable feeding in one of the little open glades; but whenever I allowed
myself to think of the many adverse elements of the game, the chances seemed very slim. It
took a half-hour to get from one glade to the next; there were thousands of glades. The sable
is a rare shy animal that likes dense cover fully as well if not better than the open. Sheer
rank bull luck alone seemed the only hope. And as I felt my strength going in that vicious
struggle against heavy brush and steep hills, I began to have very strong doubts indeed as
to that sable.

For it was cruel, hard work. In this climate one hailed a car or a rickshaw to do an errand
two streets away, and considered oneself quite a hero if one took a leisurely two-mile stroll
along the cliff heads at sunset. Here I was, after a five-hour uphill march, bucking into brush
and through country that would be considered difficult going even in Canada. At the end of
twenty minutes my every garment was not wringing but dripping wet, so that when I carried my
rifle over my arm water ran down the barrel and off the muzzle in a steady stream. After a
bit of this my knees began to weaken; and it became a question of saving energy, of getting
along somehow, and of leaving the actual hunting to Memba Sasa and the guide. If they had shown
me a sable, I very much doubt if I could have hit it.

However, we did not see one, and I staggered into camp at dusk pretty well exhausted. From
the most grateful hot bath and clean clothes I derived much refreshment. Shortly I was sitting
in my canvas chair, sipping a cocoanut, and describing the condition of affairs to F., who
was naturally very curious as to how the trick was done.

"Now," I concluded, "I know just about what I can and what I cannot do. Three days more of
this sort of work will feed me up. If we do not run across a sable in that time, I'm afraid
we don't get any."

"Two days will do for me," said he.

We called up the guide and questioned him closely. He seemed quite confident; and asserted
that in this country sable were found, when they were found at all, which was not often. They
must be discovered in the small grassy openings. We began to understand why so very few people
get sable.

We dismissed the guide, and sat quietly smoking in the warm soft evening. The air was absolutely
still save for various night insects and birds, and the weird calling of natives across the
valleys. Far out towards the sea a thunderstorm flashed; and after a long interval the rumblings
came to us. So very distant was it that we paid it little attention, save as an interesting
background to our own still evening. Almost between sentences of our slow conversation, however,
it rushed up to the zenith, blotting out the stars. The tall palms began to sway and rustle
in the forerunning breeze. Then with a swoop it was upon us, a tempest of fury. We turned in;
and all night long the heavy deluges of rain fell, roaring like surf on an unfriendly coast.

By morning this had fallen to a light, steady drizzle in which we started off quite happily.
In this climate one likes to get wet. The ground was sodden and deep with muck. Within a mile
of camp we saw many fresh buffalo tracks.

This time we went downhill and still downhill through openings among batches of great forest
trees. The new leaves were just coming out in pinks and russets, so that the effect at a little
distance was almost precisely that of our autumn foliage in its duller phases. So familiar
were made some of the low rounded knolls that for an instant we were respectively back in the
hills of Surrey or Michigan, and told each other so.

Thus we moved slowly out from the dense cover to the grass openings. Far over on another ridge
F. called my attention to something jet-black and indeterminate. In another country I should
have named it as a charred log on an old pine burning, for that was precisely what it looked
like. We glanced at it casually through our glasses. It was a sable buck lying down right out
in the open. He was black and sleek, and we could make out his sweeping scimitar horns.

Memba Sasa and the Swahili dropped flat on their faces while F. and I crawled slowly and cautiously
through the mud until we had gained the cover of a shallow ravine that ran in the beast's general
direction. Noting carefully a certain small thicket as landmark, we stooped and moved as fast
as we could down to that point of vantage. There we cautiously parted the grasses and looked.
The sable had disappeared. The place where he had been lying was plainly to be identified,
and there was no cover save a tiny bush between two and three feet high. We were quite certain
he had neither seen nor winded us. Either he had risen and fled forward into the ravine up
which we had made our stalk, or else he had entered the small thicket. F. agreed to stay on
watch where he was, while I slipped back and examined the earth to leeward of the thicket.

I had hardly crawled ten yards, however, before the gentle snapping of F.'s fingers recalled
me to his side.

"He's behind that bush," he whispered in my ear.

I looked. The bush was hardly large enough to conceal a setter dog, and the sable is somewhat
larger than our elk. Nevertheless F. insisted that the animal was standing behind it, and that
he had caught the toss of its head. We lay still for some time, while the soft, warm rain drizzled
down on us, our eyes riveted on the bush. And then we caught the momentary flash of curved
horns as the sable tossed his head. It seemed incredible even then that the tiny bush should
conceal so large a beast. As a matter of fact we later found that the bush grew on a slight
elevation, behind which was a depression. In this the sable stood, patiently enduring the drizzle.

We waited some time in hopes he would move forward a foot or so; but apparently he had selected
his loafing place with care, and liked it. The danger of a shift of wind was always present.
Finally I slipped back over the brink of the ravine, moved three yards to the left, and crawled
up through the tall dripping grass to a new position behind a little bush. Cautiously raising
my head, I found I could see plainly the sable's head and part of his shoulders. My position
was cramped and out of balance for offhand shooting; but I did my best, and heard the loud
plunk of the hit. The sable made off at a fast though rather awkward gallop, wheeled for an
instant a hundred yards farther on, received another bullet in the shoulder, and disappeared
over the brow of the hill. We raced over the top to get in another shot, and found him stone dead.

He was a fine beast, jet-black in coat, with white markings on the face, red-brown ears, and
horns sweeping up and back scimitar fashion. He stood four feet and six inches at the shoulder,
and his horns were the second best ever shot in British East Africa. This beast has been described
by Heller as a new subspecies, and named Rooseveltii. His description was based upon an immature
buck and a doe shot by Kermit Roosevelt. The determination of subspecies on so slight evidence
seems to me unscientific in the extreme. While the immature males do exhibit the general brown
tone relied on by Mr. Heller, the mature buck differs in no essential from the tropical sable.
I find the alledged subspecies is not accepted by European scientists.

XI.

A MARCH ALONG THE COAST.

With a most comfortable feeling that my task was done, that suddenly the threatening clouds
of killing work had been cleared up, I was now privileged to loaf and invite my soul on this
tropical green hilltop while poor F. put in the days trying to find another sable. Every morning
he started out before daylight. I could see the light of his lantern outside the tent; and
I stretched myself in the luxurious consciousness that I should hear no deprecating but insistent
"hodie" from my boy until I pleased to invite it. In the afternoon or evening F. would return,
quite exhausted and dripping, with only the report of new country traversed. No sable; no tracks
of sable; no old signs, even, of sable. Gradually it was borne in on me how lucky I was to
have come upon my magnificent specimen so promptly and in such favourable circumstances.

A leisurely breakfast alone, with the sun climbing; then the writing of notes, a little reading,
and perhaps a stroll to the village or along the top of the ridge. At the heat of noon a siesta
with a cool cocoanut at my elbow. The view was beautiful on all sides; our great tree full
of birds; the rising and dying winds in the palms like the gathering oncoming rush of the rains.
From mountain to mountain sounded the wild, far-carrying ululations of the natives, conveying
news or messages across the wide jungle. Towards sunset I wandered out in the groves, enjoying
the many bright flowers, the tall, sweet grasses, and the cocoa-palms against the sky. Piles
of cocoanuts lay on the ground, covered each with a leaf plaited in a peculiarly individual
manner to indicate ownership. Small boys, like little black imps, clung naked half-way up the
slim trunks of the palms, watching me bright-eyed above the undergrowth. In all directions,
crossing and recrossing, ran a maze of beaten paths. Each led somewhere, but it would require
the memory of--well, of a native, to keep all their destinations in mind.

I used to follow some of them to their ending in little cocoa-leaf houses on the tops of knolls
or beneath mangoes; and would talk with the people. They were very grave and very polite, and
seemed to be living out their lives quite correctly according to their conceptions. Again,
it was borne in on me that these people are not stumbling along the course of evolution in
our footsteps, but have gone as far in their path as we have in ours; that they have reached
at least as complete a correspondence with their environment as we with our own.[4]

If F. had not returned by the time I reached camp, I would seat myself in my canvas chair,
and thence dispense justice, advice, or medical treatment. If none of these things seemed demanded,
I smoked my pipe. To me one afternoon came a big-framed, old, dignified man, with the heavy
beard, the noble features, the high forehead, and the blank statue eyes of the blind Homer.
He was led by a very small, very bright-eyed naked boy. At some twenty feet distance he squatted
down cross-legged before me. For quite five minutes he sat there silent, while I sat in my
camp chair, smoked and waited. At last he spoke in a rolling deep bass voice rich and vibrating--a
delight to hear.

"Jambo (greeting)!" said he.

"Jambo!" I replied mildly.

Again a five-minute silence. I had begun reading, and had all but forgotten his presence.

"Jambo bwana (greeting, master)!" he rolled out.

"Jambo!" I repeated.

The same dignified, unhasting pause.

"Jambo bwana m'kubwa (greeting, great master)!"

"Jambo!" quoth I, and went on reading. The sun was dropping, but the old man seemed in no hurry.

"Jambo bwana m'kubwa sana (greeting, most mighty master)!" he boomed at last.

"Jambo!" said I.

This would seem to strike the superlative, and I expected now that he would state his business,
but the old man had one more shot in his locker.

"Jambo bwana m'kubwa kabeesa sana (greeting, mightiest possible master)!" it came.

Then in due course he delicately hinted that a gift of tobacco would not come amiss.

F. returned a trifle earlier than usual, to admit that his quest was hopeless, that his physical
forces were for the time being at an end, and that he was willing to go home.

Accordingly very early next morning we set out by the glimmer of a lantern, hoping to get a
good start on our journey before the heat of the day became too severe. We did gain something,
but performed several unnecessary loops and semicircles in the maze of beaten paths before
we finally struck into one that led down the slope towards the sea. Shortly after the dawn
came up "like thunder" in its swiftness, followed almost immediately by the sun.

Our way now led along the wide flat between the seashore and the Shimba Hills, in which we
had been hunting. A road ten feet wide and innocent of wheels ran with obstinate directness
up and down the slight contours and through the bushes and cocoanut groves that lay in its
path. So mathematically straight was it that only when perspective closed it in, or when it
dropped over the summit of a little rise, did the eye lose the effect of its interminability.
The country through which this road led was various--open bushy veld with sparse trees, dense
jungle, cocoanut groves, tall and cool. In the shadows of the latter were the thatched native
villages. To the left always ran the blue Shimba Hills; and far away to the right somewhere
we heard the grumbling of the sea.

Every hundred yards or so we met somebody. Even thus early the road was thronged. By far the
majority were the almost naked natives of the district, pleasant, brown-skinned people with
good features. They carried things. These things varied from great loads balanced atop to dainty
impromptu baskets woven of cocoa-leaves and containing each a single cocoanut. They smiled
on us, returned our greeting, and stood completely aside to let us pass. Other wayfarers were
of more importance. Small groups of bearded dignitaries, either upper-class Swahili or pure
Arabs, strolled slowly along, apparently with limitless leisure, but evidently bound somewhere,
nevertheless. They replied to our greetings with great dignity. Once, also, we overtook a small
detachment of Sudanese troops moving. They were scattered over several miles of road. A soldier,
most impressive and neat in khaki and red tarboosh and sash; then two or three of his laughing,
sleek women, clad in the thin, patterned "'Mericani," glittering with gold ornaments; then
a half dozen ragged porters carrying official but battered painted wooden kit boxes, or bags,
or miscellaneous curious plunder; then more troopers; and so on for miles. They all drew aside
for us most respectfully; and the soldiers saluted, very smart and military.

Under the broad-spreading mangoes near the villages we came upon many open markets in full
swing. Each vendor squatted on his heels behind his wares, while the purchasers or traders
wandered here and there making offers. The actual commerce compared with the amount of laughing,
joking, shrieking joy of the occasion as one to a thousand.

Generally three or four degenerate looking dirty East Indians slunk about, very crafty, very
insinuating, very ready and skilful to take what advantages they could. I felt a strong desire
to kick every one of them out from these joyful concourses of happy people. Generally we sat
down for a while in these markets, and talked to the people a little, and perhaps purchased
some of the delicious fruit. They had a small delicate variety of banana, most wonderful, the
like of which I have seen nowhere else. We bought forty of these for a coin worth about eight
cents. Besides fruit they offered cocoanuts in all forms, grain, woven baskets, small articles
of handicraft--and fish. The latter were farther from the sea than they should have been! These
occasional halts greatly refreshed us for more of that endless road.

For all this time we were very hot. As the sun mounted, the country fairly steamed. From the
end of my rifle barrel, which I carried across my forearm, a steady trickle of water dripped
into the road. We neither of us had a dry stitch on us, and our light garments clung to us
thoroughly wet through. At first we tried the military method, and marched fifty minutes to
rest ten, but soon discovered that twenty-five minutes' work to five minutes off was more practical.
The sheer weight of the sun was terrific; after we had been exposed to it for any great length
of time--as across several wide open spaces--we entered the steaming shade of the jungle with
gratitude. At the end of seven hours, however, we most unexpectedly came through a dense cocoanut
grove plump on the banks of the harbour at Kilindini.

Here, after making arrangements for the transport of our safari, when it should arrive, we
entrusted ourselves to a small boy and a cranky boat. An hour later, clad in tropical white,
with cool drinks at our elbows, we sat in easy-chairs on the veranda of the Mombasa Club.

The clubhouse is built on a low cliff at the water's edge. It looks across the blue waters
of the bay to a headland crowned with cocoa-palms, and beyond the headland to the Indian Ocean.
The cool trades sweep across that veranda. We idly watched a lone white oarsman pulling strongly
against the wind through the tide rips, evidently bent on exercise. We speculated on the incredible
folly of wanting exercise; and forgot him. An hour later a huge saffron yellow squall rose
from China 'cross the way, filled the world with an unholy light, lashed the reluctant sea
to white-caps, and swooped screaming on the cocoa-palms. Police boats to rescue the idiot oarsman!
Much minor excitement! Great rushing to and fro! We continued to sit in our lounging chairs,
one hand on our cool long drinks.

FOOTNOTES:

[4] For a fuller discussion, see "The Land of Footprints."

XII.

THE FIRE.

We were very tired, so we turned in early. W Unfortunately, our rooms were immediately over
the billiard room, where a bibulous and cosmopolitan lot were earnestly endeavouring to bolster
up by further proof the fiction that a white man cannot retain his health in the tropics. The
process was pretty rackety, and while it could not keep us awake, it prevented us from falling
thoroughly asleep. At length, and suddenly, the props of noise fell away from me, and I sank
into a grateful, profound abyss.

Almost at once, however, I was dragged back to consciousness. Mohammed stood at my bedside.

"Bwana," he proffered to my rather angry inquiry, "all the people have gone to the fire. It
is a very large fire. I thought you would like to see it."

I glanced out of the window at the reddening sky, thrust my feet into a pair of slippers, and
went forth in my pyjamas to see what I could see.

We threaded our way through many narrow dark and deserted streets, beneath balconies that overhung,
past walls over which nodded tufted palms, until a loud and increasing murmuring told us we
were nearing the centre of disturbance. Shortly, we came to the outskirts of the excited crowd,
and beyond them saw the red furnace glow.

"Semeelay! Semeelay!" warned Mohammed authoritatively; and the bystanders, seeing a white face,
gave me passage.

All of picturesque Mombasa was afoot--Arabs, Swahilis, Somalis, savages, Indians--the whole
lot. They moved restlessly in the narrow streets; they hung over the edges of balconies; they
peered from barred windows; interested dark faces turned up everywhere in the flickering light.
One woman, a fine, erect, biblical figure, stood silhouetted on a flat housetop and screamed
steadily. I thought she must have at least one baby in the fire, but it seems she was only excited.

The fire was at present confined to two buildings, in which it was raging fiercely. Its spread,
however, seemed certain; and, as it was surrounded by warehouses of valuable goods, moving
was in full swing. A frantic white man stood at the low doorway of one of these dungeon-like
stores hastening the movements of an unending string of porters. As each emerged bearing a
case on his shoulder, the white man urged him to a trot. I followed up the street to see where
these valuables were being taken, and what were the precautions against theft. Around the next
corner, it seemed. As each excited perspiring porter trotted up, he heaved his burden from
his head or his shoulders, and promptly scampered back for another load. They were loyal and
zealous men; but their headpieces were deficient inside. For the burdens that they saved from
the fire happened to be cases of gin in bottles. At least, it was in bottles until the process
of saving had been completed. Then it trickled merrily down the gutter. I went back and told
the frantic white man about it. He threw up both hands to heaven and departed.

By dodging from street to street Mohammed and I succeeded in circling the whole disturbance,
and so came at length to a public square. Here was a vast throng, and a very good place, so
I climbed atop a rescued bale of cotton the better to see.

Mombasa has no water system, but a wonderful corps of water-carriers. These were in requisition
to a man. They disappeared down through the wide gates of the customs enclosure, their naked,
muscular, light-brown bodies gleaming with sweat, their Standard Oil cans dangling merrily
at the ends of slender poles. A moment later they emerged, the cans full of salt water from
the bay, the poles seeming fairly to butt into their bare shoulders as they teetered along
at their rapid, swaying, burdened gait.

The moment they entered the square they were seized upon from a dozen different sides. There
was no system at all. Every owner of property was out for himself, and intended to get as much
of the precious water as he could. The poor carriers were pulled about, jerked violently here
and there, besought, commanded, to bring their loads to one or the other of the threatened
premises. Vociferations, accusations, commands arose to screams. One old graybeard occupied
himself by standing on tiptoe and screeching, "Maji! maji! maji!" at the top of his voice,
as though that added anything to the visible supply. The water-carrier of the moment disappeared
in a swirl of excited contestants. He was attending strictly to business, looking neither to
right nor to left, pushing forward as steadily as he could, gasping mechanically his customary
warning, "Semeelay! Semeelay!" Somehow, eventually, he and his comrades must have got somewhere;
for after an interval he returned with empty buckets. Then every blessed fool of a property
owner took a whack at his bare shoulders as he passed, shrieking hysterically, "Haya! haya!
pesi! pesi!" and the like to men already doing their best. It was a grand sight!

In the meantime the fire itself was roaring away. The old graybeard suddenly ceased crying
"maji," and darted forward to where I stood on the bale of cotton. With great but somewhat
flurried respect he begged me to descend. I did so, somewhat curious as to what he might be
up to, for the cotton was at least two hundred feet from the fire. Immediately he began to
tug and heave; the bale was almost beyond his strength; but after incredible exertions he lifted
one side of it, poised it for a moment, got his shoulder under it, and rolled it over once.
Then he darted away and resumed his raucous cry for water. I climbed back again. Thrice more,
at intervals, he repeated this performance. The only result was to daub with mud every possible
side of that bale. I hope it was his property.

You must remember that I was observing the heavy artillery of the attack on the conflagration.
Individual campaigns were everywhere in progress. I saw one man standing on the roof of a threatened
building. He lowered slowly, hand over hand, a small tea-kettle at the end of a string. This
was filled by a friend in the street, whereupon the man hauled it up again, slowly, hand over
hand, and solemnly dashed its contents into the mouth of the furnace. Thousands of other men
on roofs, in balconies, on the street, were doing the same thing. Some had ordinary cups which
they filled a block away! The limit of efficiency was a pail. Nobody did anything in concert
with anybody else. The sight of these thousands of little midgets each with his teacup, or
his teapot, or his tin pail, throwing each his mite of water--for which he had to walk a street
or so--into the ravening roaring furnace of flame was as pathetic or as comical as you please.
They did not seem to have a show in the world.

Nevertheless, to my vast surprise, the old system of the East triumphed at last. The system
of the East is that if you get enough labour you can accomplish anything. Little by little
those thousands of tea kettles of water had their aggregate effect. The flames fed themselves
out and died down leaving the contiguous buildings unharmed save for a little scorching. In
two hours all was safe, and I returned to the hotel, having enjoyed myself hugely. I had, however,
in the interest and excitement, forgotten how deadly is the fever of Mombasa. Midnight in pyjamas
did the business; and shortly I paid well for the fun.

PART III.

NAIROBI.

XIII.

UP FROM THE COAST.

Nairobi is situated at the far edge of the great Athi Plains and just below a range of hills.
It might about as well have been anywhere else, and perhaps better a few miles back in the
higher country. Whether the funny little narrow-gauge railroad exists for Nairobi, or Nairobi
for the railroad, it would be difficult to say. Between Mombasa and this interior placed-to-order
town, certainly, there is nothing, absolutely nothing, either in passengers or freight, to
justify building the line. That distance is, if I remember it correctly, about three hundred
and twenty miles. A dozen or so names of stations appear on the map. These are water tanks,
telegraph stations, or small groups of tents in which dwell black labourers--on the railroad.

The way climbs out from the tropical steaming coast belt to and across the high scrub desert,
and then through lower rounded hills to the plains. On the desert is only dense thorn brush--and
a possibility that the newcomer, if he looks very closely, may to his excitement see his first
game in Africa. This is a stray duiker or so, tiny grass antelopes a foot high. Also in this
land is thirst; so that alongside the locomotives, as they struggle up grade, in bad seasons,
run natives to catch precious drops.[5] An impalpable red dust sifts through and into everything.
When a man descends at Voi for dinner he finds his fellow-travellers have changed complexion.
The pale clerk from indoor Mombasa has put on a fine healthy sunburn; and the company in general
present a rich out-of-doors bloom. A chance dab with a white napkin comes away like fresh paint,
however.

You clamber back into the compartment, with its latticed sun shades and its smoked glass windows;
you let down the narrow canvas bunk; you unfold your rug, and settle yourself for repose. It
is a difficult matter. Everything you touch is gritty. The air is close and stifling, like
the smoke-charged air of a tunnel. If you try to open a window you are suffocated with more
of the red dust. At last you fall into a doze; to awaken nearly frozen! The train has climbed
into what is, after weeks of the tropics, comparative cold; and if you have not been warned
to carry wraps, you are in danger of pneumonia.

The gray dawn comes, and shortly, in the sudden tropical fashion, the full light. You look
out on a wide smiling grass country, with dips and swales, and brushy river bottoms, and long
slopes and hills thrusting up in masses from down below the horizon, and singly here and there
in the immensities nearer at hand. The train winds and doubles on itself up the gentle slopes
and across the imperceptibly rising plains. But the interest is not in these wide prospects,
beautiful and smiling as they may be, but in the game. It is everywhere. Far in the distance
the herds twinkle, half guessed in the shimmer of the bottom lands or dotting the sides of
the hills. Nearer at hand it stares as the train rumbles and sways laboriously past. Occasionally
it even becomes necessary to whistle aside some impertinent kongoni that has placed himself
between the metals! The newcomer has but a theoretical knowledge at best of all these animals;
and he is intensely interested in identifying the various species. The hartebeeste and the
wildebeeste he learns quickly enough, and of course the zebra and the giraffe are unmistakable;
but the smaller gazelles are legitimate subjects for discussion. The wonder of the extraordinary
abundance of these wild animals mounts as the hours slip by. At the stops for water or for
orders the passengers gather from their different compartments to detail excitedly to each
other what they have seen. There is always an honest superenthusiast who believes he has seen
rhinoceroses, lions, or leopards. He is looked upon with envy by the credulous, and with exasperation
by all others.

So the little train puffs and tugs along. Suddenly it happens on a barbed wire fence, and immediately
after enters the town of Nairobi. The game has persisted right up to that barbed wire fence.

The station platform is thronged with a heterogeneous multitude of people. The hands of a dozen
raggetty black boys are stretched out for luggage. The newcomer sees with delight a savage
with a tin can in his stretched ear lobe; another with a set of wooden skewers set fanwise
around the edge of the ear; he catches a glimpse of a beautiful naked creature very proud,
very decorated with beads and heavy polished wire. Then he is ravished away by the friend,
or agent, or hotel representative who has met him, and hurried out through the gates between
the impassive and dignified Sikh sentries to the cab. I believe nobody but the newcomer ever
rides in the cab; and then but once, from the station to the hotel. After that he uses rickshaws.
In fact it is probable that the cab is maintained for the sole purpose of giving the newcomer
a grand and impressive entrance. This brief fleeting quarter hour of glory is unique and passes.
It is like crossing the Line, or the first kiss, something that in its nature cannot be repeated.

The cab was once a noble vehicle, compounded of opulent curves, with a very high driver's box
in front, a little let-down bench, and a deep, luxurious, shell-shaped back seat, reclining
in which one received the adulation of the populace. That was in its youth. Now in its age
the varnish is gone; the upholstery of the back seat frayed; the upholstery of the small seat
lacking utterly, so that one sits on bare boards. In place of two dignifiedly spirited fat
white horses, it is drawn by two very small mules in a semi-detached position far ahead. And
how it rattles!

Between the station and the hotel at Nairobi is a long straight wide well-made street, nearly
a mile long, and bordered by a double row of young eucalyptus. These latter have changed the
main street of Nairobi from the sunbaked array of galvanized houses described by travellers
of a half dozen years back to a thoroughfare of great charm. The iron houses and stores are
now in a shaded background; and the attention is freed to concentrate on the vivid colouring,
the incessant movement, the great interest of the people moving to and fro. When I left Nairobi
the authorities were considering the removal of these trees, because one row of them had been
planted slightly within the legal limits of the street. What they could interfere with in a
practically horseless town I cannot imagine, but I trust this stupidity gave way to second thought.

The cab rattles and careers up the length of the street, scattering rickshaws and pedestrians
from before its triumphant path. To the left opens a wide street of little booths under iron
awnings, hung with gay colour and glittering things. The street is thronged from side to side
with natives of all sorts. It whirls past, and shortly after the cab dashes inside a fence
and draws up before the low stone-built, wide-verandahed hotel.

FOOTNOTES:

[5] The Government does much nowadays by means of tank cars.

XIV.

A TOWN OF CONTRASTS.

It has been, as I have said, the fashion to speak of Nairobi as an ugly little town. This was
probably true when the first corrugated iron houses huddled unrelieved near the railway station.
It is not true now. The lower part of town is well planted, and is always picturesque as long
as its people are astir. The white population have built in the wooded hills some charming
bungalows surrounded by bright flowers or lost amid the trunks of great trees. From the heights
on which is Government House one can, with a glass, watch the game herds feeding on the plains.
Two clubs, with the usual games of golf, polo, tennis--especially tennis--football and cricket;
a weekly hunt, with jackals instead of foxes; a bungalow town club on the slope of a hill;
an electric light system; a race track; a rifle range; frilly parasols and the latest fluffiest
summer toilettes from London and Paris--I mention a few of the refinements of civilization
that offer to the traveller some of the most piquant of contrasts.

For it must not be forgotten that Nairobi, in spite of these things--due to the direct but
slender thread of communication by railroad and ships--is actually in the middle of an African
wilderness--is a black man's town, as far as numbers go.[6]

The game feeds to its very outskirts, even wanders into the streets at night.[7] Lions may
be heard roaring within a mile or so of town; and leopards occasionally at night come on the
verandas of the outlying dwellings. Naked savages from the jungle untouched by civilization
in even the minutest particular wander the streets unabashed.

It is this constantly recurring, sharply drawn contrast that gives Nairobi its piquant charm.
As one sits on the broad hotel veranda a constantly varied pageant passes before him. A daintily
dressed, fresh-faced Englishwoman bobs by in a smart rickshaw drawn by two uniformed runners;
a Kikuyu, anointed, curled, naked, brass adorned, teeters along, an expression of satisfaction
on his face; a horseman, well appointed, trots briskly by followed by his loping syce; a string
of skin-clad women, their heads fantastically shaved, heavily ornamented, lean forward under
the burden of firewood for the market; a beautiful baby in a frilled perambulator is propelled
by a tall, solemn, fine-looking black man in white robe and cap; the driver of a high cart
tools his animal past a creaking, clumsy, two-wheeled wagon drawn by a pair of small humpbacked
native oxen. And so it goes, all day long, without end. The public rickshaw boys just across
the way chatter and game and quarrel and keep a watchful eye out for a possible patron on whom
to charge vociferously and full tilt. Two or three old-timers with white whiskers and red faces
continue to slaughter thousands and thousands and thousands of lions from the depths of their
easy chairs.

The stone veranda of that hotel is a very interesting place. Here gather men from all parts
of East Africa, from Uganda, and the jungles of the Upper Congo. At one time or another all
the famous hunters drop into its canvas chairs--Cunninghame, Allan Black, Judd, Outram, Hoey,
and the others; white traders with the natives of distant lands; owners of farms experimenting
bravely on a greater or lesser scale in a land whose difficulties are just beginning to be
understood; great naturalists and scientists from the governments of the earth, eager to observe
and collect this interesting and teeming fauna; and sportsmen just out and full of interest,
or just returned and modestly important. More absorbing conversation can be listened to on
this veranda than in any other one place in the world. The gathering is cosmopolitan; it is
representative of the most active of every social, political, and racial element; it has done
things; it contemplates vital problems from the vantage ground of experience. The talk veers
from pole to pole--and returns always to lions.

Every little while a native--a raw savage--comes along and takes up a stand just outside the
railing. He stands there mute and patient for five minutes--a half hour--until some one, any
one, happens to notice him.

"N'jo!--come here!" commands this person.

The savage silently proffers a bit of paper on which is written the name of the one with whom
he has business.

"Nenda officie!" indicates the charitable person waving his hand towards the hotel office.

Then, and not until this permission has been given by some one, dares the savage cross the
threshold to do his errand.

If the messenger happens to be a trained houseboy, however, dressed in his uniform of khaki
or his more picturesque white robe and cap, he is privileged to work out his own salvation.
And behind the hotel are rows and rows of other boys, each waiting patiently the pleasure of
his especial bwana lounging at ease after strenuous days. At the drawling shout of "boy!" one
of them instantly departs to find out which particular boy is wanted.

The moment any white man walks to the edge of the veranda a half-dozen of the rickshaws across
the street career madly around the corners of the fence, bumping, colliding, careening dangerously,
to drop beseechingly in serried confusion close around the step. The rickshaw habit is very
strong in Nairobi. If a man wants to go a hundred yards down the street he takes a rickshaw
for that stupendous journey. There is in justification the legend that the white man should
not exert himself in the tropics. I fell into the custom of the country until I reflected that
it would hardly be more fatal to me to walk a half-hour in the streets of Nairobi than to march
six or seven hours--as I often did--when on safari or in the hunting field. After that I got
a little exercise, to the vast scandal of the rickshaw boys. In fact, so unusual was my performance
that at first I had fairly to clear myself a way with my kiboko. After a few experiences they
concluded me a particularly crazy person and let me alone.

Rickshaws, however, are very efficient and very cheap. The runners, two in number, are lithe
little round-headed Kavirondos, generally, their heads shaved to leave a skull cap, clad in
scant ragged garments, and wearing each an anklet of little bells. Their passion for ornament
they confine to small bright things in their hair and ears. They run easily, with a very long
stride. Even steep hills they struggle up somehow, zigzagging from one side of the road to
the other, edging along an inch or so at a time. In such places I should infinitely have preferred
to have walked, but that would have lost me caste everywhere. There are limits even to a crazy
man's idiosyncrasies. For that reason I never thoroughly enjoyed rickshaws, save along the
level ways with bells jingling and feet patpatting a rapid time. Certainly I did not enjoy
them going down the steep hills. The boy between the shafts in front hits the landscape about
every forty feet. I do not really object to sudden death, but this form of it seemed unfair
to some poor hungry lion.

However, the winding smooth roads among the forested, shaded bungalows of the upper part of
town were very attractive, especially towards evening. At that time the universal sun-helmet
or double terai could be laid aside for straw hats, cloth caps, or bare heads. People played
the more violent games, or strolled idly. At the hotel there was now a good deal of foolish
drinking; foolish, because in this climate it is very bad for the human system, and in these
surroundings of much interest and excitement the relief of its exaltation from monotony or
ennui or routine could hardly be required.

FOOTNOTES:

[6] Fifteen hundred whites to twelve thousand natives, approximately.

[7] This happened twice while I was in the country.

XV.

PEOPLE.

Considered as a class rather than as individuals, the dark-skinned population is easily the
more interesting. Considered as individuals, the converse is true. Men like Sir Percy Girouard,
Hobley, Jackson, Lord Delamere, McMillan, Cunninghame, Allan Black, Leslie Tarleton, Vanderweyer,
the Hill cousins, Horne, and a dozen others are nowhere else to be met in so small a community.
But the whites have developed nothing in their relations one to another essentially different.
The artisan and shopkeeping class dwell on the flats; the Government people and those of military
connections live on the heights on one side of the little stream; the civil service and bigger
business men among the hills on the other. Between them all is a little jealousy, and contempt,
and condescension; just as there is jealousy, and contempt, and condescension elsewhere. They
are pleasant people, and hospitable, and some of them very distinguished in position or achievement;
and I am glad to say I have good friends among them.

But the native is the joy, and the never-ceasing delight. For his benefit is the wide, glittering,
colourful, insanitary bazaar, with its dozens of little open-air veranda shops, its "hotels"
where he can sit in a real chair and drink real tea, its cafes, and the dark mysteries of its
more doubtful amusements. The bazaar is right in the middle of town, just where it ought not
to be, and it is constantly being quarantined, and threatened with removal. It houses a large
population mysteriously, for it is of slight extent. Then on the borders of town are the two
great native villages--one belonging to the Somalis, and the other hospitably accommodating
the swarms of caravan porters and their families. For, just as in old days Mombasa and Zanzibar
used to be the points from which caravans into the interior would set forth, now Nairobi outfits
the majority of expeditions. Probably ten thousand picked natives of various tribes are engaged
in the profession. Of course but a small proportion of this number is ever at home at any one
time; but the village is a large one. Both these villages are built in the native style, of
plaster and thatch; have their own headman government--under supervision--and are kept pretty
well swept out and tidy. Besides these three main gathering places are many camps and "shambas"[8]
scattered everywhere; and the back country counts millions of raw jungle savages, only too
glad to drift in occasionally for a look at the metropolis.

At first the newcomer is absolutely bewildered by the variety of these peoples; but after a
little he learns to differentiate. The Somalis are perhaps the first recognizable, with their
finely chiselled, intelligent, delicate brown features, their slender forms, and their strikingly
picturesque costumes of turbans, flowing robes, and embroidered sleeveless jackets. Then he
learns to distinguish the savage from the sophisticated dweller of the town. Later comes the
identification of the numerous tribes.

The savage comes in just as he has been for, ethnologists alone can guess, how many thousands
of years. He is too old an institution to have been affected as yet by this tiny spot of modernity
in the middle of the wilderness. As a consequence he startles the newcomer even more than the
sight of giraffes on the sky-line.

When the shenzi--wild man--comes to town he gathers in two or three of his companions, and
presents himself as follows: His hair has been grown quite long, then gathered in three tight
pigtails wound with leather, one of which hangs over his forehead, and the other two over his
ears. The entire head he has then anointed with a mixture of castor oil and a bright red colouring
earth. This is wiped away evenly all around the face, about two inches below the hair, to leave
a broad, bandlike glistening effect around the entire head. The ears are most marvellous. From
early youth the lobes have been stretched, until at last they have become like two long elastic
loops, hanging down upon the shoulder, and capable of accommodating anything up to and including
a tomato can. When in fatigue uniform these loops are caught up over the tops of the ears,
but on dress parade they accommodate almost anything considered ornamental. I have seen a row
of safety pins clasped in them or a number of curtain rings; or a marmalade jar, or the glittering
cover of a tobacco tin. The edges of the ears, all around to the top, are then pierced. Then
the insertion of a row of long white wooden skewers gives one a peculiarly porcupinish look;
or a row of little brass danglers hints of wealth. Having thus finished off his head, your
savage clasps around his neck various strings of beads; or collars of iron or copper wire,
polished to the point of glitter; puts on a half-dozen armlets and leglets of the same; ties
on a narrow bead belt, in which is thrust a short sword; anoints himself all over with reddened
castor oil until he glistens and shines in the sun; rubs his legs with white clay and traces
patterns therein; seizes his long-bladed spear, and is ready for the city. Oh, no! I forgot--and
he probably came near doing so--his strip of 'Mericani.[9] This was originally white, but constant
wear over castor oil has turned it a uniform and beautiful brown.

The purpose of this is ornament, and it is so worn. There has been an attempt, I understand,
to force these innocent children to some sort of conventional decency while actually in the
streets of Nairobi. It was too large an order. Some bring in clothes, to be sure, because the
white man asks it; but why no sensible man could say. They are hung from one shoulder, flap
merrily in the breeze, and are always quite frankly tucked up about the neck or under the arms
when the wearer happens to be in haste. As a matter of fact these savages are so beautifully
and smoothly formed; their red-brown or chocolate-brown skin is so fine in texture, and their
complete unconsciousness so genuine that in an hour the newcomer is quite accustomed to their
nakedness.

These proud youths wander mincingly down the street with an expression of the most fatuous
and good-natured satisfaction with themselves. To their minds they have evidently done every
last thing that human ingenuity or convention could encompass.

These young men are the dandies, the proud young aristocracy of wealth and importance; and
of course they may differ individually or tribally from the sample I have offered. Also there
are many other social grades. Those who care less for dress or have less to get it with can
rub along very cheaply. The only real essentials are (a) something for the ear--a tomato can
will do; (b) a trifle for clothing--and for that a scrap of gunny sacking will be quite enough.

The women to be seen in the streets of Nairobi are mostly of the Kikuyu tribe. They are pretty
much of a pattern. Their heads are shaven, either completely or to leave only ornamental tufts;
and are generally bound with a fine wire fillet so tightly that the strands seem to sink into
the flesh. A piece of cotton cloth, dyed dark umber red, is belted around the waist, and sometimes,
but not always, another is thrown about the shoulder. They go in for more hardware than do
the men. The entire arms and the calves of the legs are encased in a sort of armour made of
quarter-inch wire wound closely, and a collar of the same material stands out like a ruff eight
or ten inches around the neck. This is wound on for good; and must be worn day and night and
all the time, a cumbersome and tremendously heavy burden. A dozen large loops of coloured beads
strung through the ears, and various strings and necklaces of beads, cowrie shells, and the
like finish them out in all their gorgeousness. They would sink like plummets. Their job in
life, besides lugging all this stuff about, is to carry in firewood and forage. At any time
of the day long files of them can be seen bending forward under their burdens. These they carry
on their backs by means of a strap across the tops of their heads; after the fashion of the
Canadian tump line.

The next cut above the shenzi, or wild man, is the individual who has been on safari as carrier,
or has otherwise been much employed around white men. From this experience he has acquired
articles of apparel and points of view. He is given to ragged khaki, or cast-off garments of
all sorts, but never to shoes. This hint of the conventional only serves to accent the little
self-satisfied excursions he makes into barbarism. The shirt is always worn outside, the ear
ornaments are as varied as ever, the head is shaved in strange patterns, a tiny tight tuft
on the crown is useful as fastening for feathers or little streamers or anything else that
will wave or glitter. One of these individuals wore a red label he had, with patience and difficulty,
removed from one of our trunks. He had pasted it on his forehead; and it read "Baggage Room.
Not Wanted." These people are, after all, but modified shenzis. The modification is nearly
always in the direction of the comic.

Now we step up to a class that would resent being called shenzis as it would resent an insult.
This is the personal servant class. The members are of all tribes, with possibly a slight preponderance
of Swahilis and Somalis. They are a very clean, well-groomed, self-respecting class, with a
great deal of dignity, and a great deal of pride in their bwanas. Also they are exceedingly
likely to degenerate unless ruled with a firm hand and a wise head. Very rarely are they dishonest
as respects the possessions of their own masters. They understand their work perfectly, and
the best of them get the equivalent of from eight to ten dollars a month. Every white individual
has one or more of them; even the tiny children with their ridiculous little sun helmets are
followed everywhere by a tall, solemn, white-robed black. Their powers of divination approach
the uncanny. About the time you begin to think of wanting something, and are making a first
helpless survey of a boyless landscape, your own servant suddenly, mysteriously, and unobtrusively
appears from nowhere. Where he keeps himself, where he feeds himself, where he sleeps you do
not know. These beautifully clean, trim, dignified people are always a pleasant feature in
the varied picture.

The Somalis are a clan by themselves. A few of them condescend to domestic service, but the
most prefer the free life of traders, horse dealers, gunbearers, camel drivers, labour go-betweens,
and similar guerrilla occupations. They are handsome, dashing, proud, treacherous, courageous,
likeable, untrustworthy. They career around on their high, short-stirruped saddles; they saunter
indolently in small groups; they hang about the hotel hoping for a dicker of some kind. There
is nothing of the savage about them, but much of the true barbarism, with the barbarian's pride,
treachery, and love of colour.

FOOTNOTES:

[8] Native farmlets, generally temporary.

[9] White cotton cloth.

XVI.

RECRUITING.

To the traveller Nairobi is most interesting as the point from which expeditions start and
to which they return. Doubtless an extended stay in the country would show him that problems
of administration and possibilities of development could be even more absorbing; but such things
are very sketchy to him at first.

As a usual thing, when he wants porters he picks them out from the throng hanging around the
big outfitters' establishments. Each man is then given a blanket--cotton, but of a most satisfying
red--a tin water bottle, a short stout cord, and a navy blue jersey. After that ceremony he
is yours.

But on the occasion of one three months' journey into comparatively unknown country we ran
up against difficulties. Some two weeks before our contemplated start two or three cases of
bubonic plague had been discovered in the bazaar, and as a consequence Nairobi was quarantined.
This meant that a rope had been stretched around the infected area, that the shops had been
closed, and that no native could--officially--leave Nairobi. The latter provision affected
us; for under it we should be unable to get our bearers out.

As a matter of fact, the whole performance--unofficially--was a farce. Natives conversed affably
at arm's length across the ropes; hundreds sneaked in and out of town at will; and from the
rear of the infected area I personally saw beds, chests, household goods, blankets, and clothes
passed to friends outside the ropes. When this latter condition was reported, in my presence,
to the medical officers, they replied that this was a matter for police cognizance! But the
brave outward show of ropes, disinfectants, gorgeous sentries--in front--and official inspection
went solemnly on. Great, even in Africa, is the god of red tape.

Our only possible plan, in the circumstances, was to recruit the men outside the town, to camp
them somewhere, march them across country to a way station, and there embark them. Our goods
and safari stores we could then ship out to them by train.

Accordingly we rode on bicycles out to the Swahili village.

This is, as I have said, composed of large "beehive" houses thatched conically with straw.
The roofs extend to form verandas beneath which sit indolent damsels, their hair divided in
innumerable tiny parts running fore and aft like the stripes on a water melon; their figured
'Mericani garments draped gracefully. As befitted the women of plutocrats, they wore much jewellery,
some of it set in their noses. Most of them did all of nothing, but some sat half buried in
narrow strips of bright-coloured tissue paper. These they were pasting together like rolls
of tape, the coloured edges of the paper forming concentric patterns on the resultant discs--an
infinite labour. The discs, when completed, were for insertion in the lobes of the ears.

When we arrived the irregular "streets" of the village were nearly empty, save for a few elegant
youths, in long kanzuas, or robes of cinnamon colour and spotless white, on their heads fezzes
or turbans, in their hands slender rattan canes. They were very busy talking to each other,
and of course did not notice the idle beauties beneath the verandas.

Hardly had we appeared, however, when mysteriously came forth the headman--a bearded, solemn,
Arab-like person with a phenomenally ugly face but a most pleasing smile. We told him we wanted
porters. He clapped his hands. To the four young men who answered this summons he gave a command.
From sleepy indolence they sprang into life. To the four cardinal points of the compass they
darted away, running up and down the side streets, beating on the doors, screaming at the tops
of their lungs the word "Cazi"[10] over and over again.

The village hummed like a wasps' nest. Men poured from the huts in swarms. The streets were
filled; the idle sauntering youths were swamped, and sunk from view. Clamour and shouting arose
where before had been a droning silence. The mob beat up to where we stood, surrounding us,
shouting at us. From somewhere some one brought an old table and two decrepit chairs, battered
and rickety in themselves, but symbols of great authority in a community where nobody habitually
used either. Two naked boys proudly took charge of our bicycles.

We seated ourselves.

"Fall in!" we yelled.

About half the crowd fell into rough lines. The rest drew slightly to one side. Nobody stopped
talking for a single instant.

We arose and tackled our job. The first part of it was to segregate the applicants into their
different tribes.

"Monumwezi hapa!" we yelled; and the command was repeated and repeated again by the headman,
by his four personal assistants, by a half-dozen lesser headmen. Slowly the Monumwezi drew
aside. We impressed on them emphatically they must stay thus, and went after, in turn, the
Baganda, the Wakamba, the Swahilis, the Kavirondo, the Kikuyu. When we had them grouped, we
went over them individually. We punched their chests, we ran over all their joints, we examined
their feet, we felt their muscles. Our victims stood rigidly at inspection, but their numerous
friends surrounded us closely, urging the claims of the man to our notice. It was rather confusing,
but we tried to go at it as though we were alone in a wilderness. If the man passed muster
we motioned him to a rapidly growing group.

When we had finished we had about sixty men segregated. Then we went over this picked lot again.
This time we tried not only to get good specimens, but to mix our tribes. At last our count
of twenty-nine was made up, and we took a deep breath. But to us came one of them complaining
that he was a Monumwezi, and that we had picked only three Monumwezi, and--We cut him short.
His contention was quite correct. A porter tent holds five, and it does not do to mix tribes.
Reorganization! Cut out two extra Kavirondos, and include two more Monumwezi. "Bass! finished!
Now go get your effects. We start immediately."

As quickly as it had filled, the street cleared. The rejected dived back into their huts, the
newly enlisted carriers went to collect their baggage. Only remained the headman and his fierce-faced
assistants, and the splendid youths idling up and down--none of them had volunteered, you may
be sure--and the damsels of leisure beneath the porticos. Also one engaging and peculiar figure
hovering near.

This individual had been particularly busy during our recruiting. He had hustled the men into
line, he had advised us for or against different candidates, he had loudly sung my praises
as a man to work for, although, of course, he knew nothing about me. Now he approached, saluted,
smiled. He was a tall, slenderly-built person, with phenomenally long, thin legs, slightly
rounded shoulders, a forward thrust, keen face, and remarkably long, slim hands. With these
he gesticulated much, in a right-angled fashion, after the manner of Egyptian hieroglyphical
figures. He was in no manner shenzi. He wore a fez, a neat khaki coat and shorts, blue puttees
and boots. Also a belt with leather pockets, a bunch of keys, a wrist watch, and a seal ring.
His air was of great elegance and social ease. We took him with us as C.'s gunbearer. He proved
staunch, a good tracker, an excellent hunter, and a most engaging individual. His name was
Kongoni, and he was a Wakamba.

But now we were confronted with a new problem: that of getting our twenty-nine chosen ones
together again. They had totally disappeared. In all directions we had emissaries beating up
the laggards. As each man reappeared carrying his little bundle, we lined him up with his companions.
Then when we turned our backs we lost him again; he had thought of another friend with whom
to exchange farewells. At the long last, however, we got them all collected. The procession
started, the naked boys proudly wheeling our bikes alongside. We saw them fairly clear of everything,
then turned them over to Kongoni, while we returned to Nairobi to see after our effects.

FOOTNOTES:

[10] Work.

This has to do with a lion hunt on the Kapiti Plains. On the veranda at Nairobi I had some
time previous met Clifford Hill, who had invited me to visit him at the ostrich farm he and
his cousin were running in the mountains near Machakos. Some time later, a visit to Juja Farm
gave me the opportunity. Juja is only a day's ride from the Hills'. So an Africander, originally
from the south, Captain D., and I sent across a few carriers with our personal effects, and
ourselves rode over on horseback.

Juja is on the Athi Plains. Between the Athi and Kapiti Plains runs a range of low mountains
around the end of which one can make his way as around a promontory. The Hills' ostrich farm
was on the highlands in the bay on the other side of the promontory.

It was towards the close of the rainy season, and the rivers were up. We had to swim our horses
within a half-mile of Juja, and got pretty wet. Shortly after crossing the Athi, however, five
miles on, we emerged on the dry, drained slopes from the hills. Here the grass was long, and
the ticks plentiful. Our horses' legs and chests were black with them; and when we dismounted
for lunch we ourselves were almost immediately alive with the pests. In this very high grass
the game was rather scarce, but after we had climbed by insensible grades to the shorter growth
we began to see many hartebeeste, zebra, and gazelles, and a few of the wildebeeste, or brindled
gnus. Travel over these great plains and through these leisurely low hills is a good deal like
coastwise sailing--the same apparently unattainable landmarks which, nevertheless, are at last
passed and left astern by the same sure but insensible progress. Thus we drew up on apparently
continuous hills, found wide gaps between them, crossed them, and turned to the left along
the other side of the promontory. About five o'clock we came to the Hills'.

The ostrich farm is situated on the very top of a conical rise that sticks up like an island
close inshore to the semicircle of mountains in which end the vast plains of Kapiti. Thus the
Hills have at their backs and sides these solid ramparts and face westward the immensities
of space. For Kapiti goes on over the edge of the world to unknown, unguessed regions, rolling
and troubled like a sea. And from that unknown, on very still days, the snowy peak of Kilimanjaro
peers out, sketched as faintly against the sky as a soap bubble wafted upward and about to
disappear. Here and there on the plains kopjes stand like islands, their stone tops looking
as though thrust through the smooth prairie surface from beneath. To them meandered long, narrow
ravines full of low brush, like thin, wavering streaks of gray. On these kopjes--each of which
had its name--and in these ravines we were to hunt lions.

We began the ascent of the cone on which dwelt our hosts. It was one of those hills that seem
in no part steep, and yet which finally succeed in raising one to a considerable height. We
passed two ostrich herds in charge of savages, rode through a scattered native village, and
so came to the farm itself, situated on the very summit.

The house consisted of three large circular huts, thatched neatly with papyrus stalks, and
with conical roofs. These were arranged as a triangle, just touching each other; and the space
between had been roofed over to form a veranda. We were ushered into one of these circular
rooms. It was spacious and contained two beds, two chairs, a dresser, and a table. Its earth
floor was completely covered by the skins of animals. In the corresponding room, opposite,
slept our hosts; while the third was the living and dining room. A long table, raw-hide bottomed
chairs, a large sideboard, bookcases, a long easy settee with pillows, gun racks, photographs
in and out of frames, a table with writing materials, and books and magazines everywhere--not
to speak of again the skins of many animals completely covering the floor. Out behind, in small,
separate buildings, laboured the cook, and dwelt the stores, the bath-tub, and other such necessary
affairs.

As soon as we had consumed the usual grateful lime juice and sparklets, we followed our hosts
into the open air to look around.

On this high, airy hill top the Hills some day are going to build them a real house. In anticipation
they have laid out grounds and have planted many things. In examining these my California training
stood by me. Out there, as here, one so often examines his own and his neighbours' gardens,
not for what they are but for what they shall become. His imagination can exalt this tiny seedling
to the impressiveness of spreading noontime shade; can magnify yonder apparent duplicate to
the full symmetry of a shrub; can ruthlessly diminish the present importance of certain grand
and lofty growths to its true status of flower or animal. So from a dead uniformity of size
he casts forward in the years to a pleasing variation of shade, of jungle, of open glade, of
flowered vista; and he goes away full of expert admiration for "X.'s bully garden." With this
solid training beneath me I was able on this occasion to please immensely.

From the house site we descended the slope to where the ostriches and the cattle and the people
were in the late sunlight swarming upward from the plains pastures below. These people were,
to the chief extent, Wakamba, quite savage, but attracted here by the justness and fair dealing
of the Hills. Some of them farmed on shares with the Hills, the white men furnishing the land
and seed, and the black men the labour; some of them laboured on wage; some few herded cattle
or ostriches; some were hunters and took the field only when, as now, serious business was
afoot. They had their complete villages, with priests, witch doctors, and all; and they seemed
both contented and fond of the two white men.

As we walked about we learned much of the ostrich business; and in the course of our ten days'
visit we came to a better realization of how much there is to think of in what appears basically
so simple a proposition.

In the nesting time, then, the Hills went out over the open country, sometimes for days at
a time, armed with long high-power telescopes. With these fearsome and unwieldy instruments
they surveyed the country inch by inch from the advantage of a kopje. When thus they discovered
a nest, they descended and appropriated the eggs. The latter, hatched at home in an incubator,
formed the nucleus of a flock.

Pass the raising of ostrich chicks to full size through the difficulties of disease, wild beasts,
and sheer cussedness. Of the resultant thirty birds or so of the season's catch, but two or
three will even promise good production. These must be bred in captivity with other likely
specimens. Thus after several years the industrious ostrich farmer may become possessed of
a few really prime birds. To accumulate a proper flock of such in a new country is a matter
of a decade or so. Extra prime birds are as well known and as much in demand for breeding as
any blood horse in a racing country. Your true ostrich enthusiast, like the Hills, possesses
trunks full of feathers not good commercially, but intensely interesting for comparison and
for the purposes of prophecy. While I stayed with them came a rumour of a very fine plucking
a distant neighbour had just finished from a likely two-year-old. The Hills were manifestly
uneasy until one of them had ridden the long distance to compare this newcomer's product with
that of their own two-year-olds. And I shall never forget the reluctantly admiring shake of
the head with which he acknowledged that it was indeed a "very fine feather!"

But getting the birds is by no means all of ostrich farming, as many eager experimenters have
discovered to their cost. The birds must have a certain sort of pasture land; and their paddocks
must be built on an earth that will not soil or break the edges of the new plumes.

And then there is the constant danger of wild beasts. When a man has spent years in gathering
suitable flocks, he cannot be blamed for wild anger when, as happened while I was in the country,
lions kill sixty or seventy birds in a night. The ostrich seems to tempt lions greatly. The
beasts will make their way through and over the most complicated defences. Any ostrich farmer's
life is a constant warfare against them. Thus the Hills had slain sixty-eight lions in and
near their farm--a tremendous record. Still the beasts continued to come in. My hosts showed
me, with considerable pride, their arrangements finally evolved for night protection.

The ostriches were confined in a series of heavy corrals, segregating the birds of different
ages. Around the outside of this group of enclosures ran a wide ring corral in which were confined
the numerous cattle; and as an outer wall to this were built the huts of the Wakamba village.
Thus to penetrate to the ostriches the enterprising lion would have to pass both the people,
the cattle, and the strong thorn and log structures that contained them.

This subject brings me to another set of acquaintances we had already made--the dogs.

These consisted of an Airedale named Ruby; two setters called Wayward and Girlie; a heavy black
mongrel, Nero; ditto brindle, Ben; and a smaller black and white ditto, Ranger. They were very
nice friendly doggy dogs, but they did not look like lion hunters. Nevertheless, Hill assured
us that they were of great use in the sport, and promised us that on the following day we should
see just how.

XVIII

THE FIRST LIONESS.

At an early hour we loaded our bedding, food, tents, and camp outfit on a two-wheeled wagon
drawn by four of the humpbacked native oxen, and sent it away across the plains, with instructions
to make camp on a certain kopje. Clifford Hill and myself, accompanied by our gunbearers and
syces, then rode leisurely down the length of a shallow brushy cañon for a mile or so. There
we dismounted and sat down to await the arrival of the others. These--including Harold Hill,
Captain D., five or six Wakamba spearmen, our own carriers, and the dogs--came along more slowly,
beating the bottoms on the off chance of game.

The sun was just warming, and the bees and insects were filling the air with their sleepy droning
sounds. The hillside opposite showed many little outcrops of rocks so like the hills of our
own Western States that it was somewhat difficult to realize that we were in Africa. For some
reason the delay was long. Then suddenly all four of us simultaneously saw the same thing.
A quarter-mile away and on the hillside opposite a magnificent lioness came loping easily along
through the grass. She looked very small at that distance, like a toy, and quite unhurried.
Indeed, every few moments she paused to look back in an annoyed fashion over her shoulder in
the direction of the row behind her.

There was nothing to do but sit tight and wait. The lioness was headed exactly to cross our
front; nor, except at one point, was she at all likely to deviate. A shallow tributary ravine
ran into our own about two hundred yards away. She might possibly sneak down the bed of this.
It seemed unlikely. The going was bad, and in addition she had no idea as yet that she had
been sighted. Indeed, the chances were that she would come to a definite stop before making
the crossing, in which case we would get a shot.

"And if she does go down the donga," whispered Hill, "the dogs will locate her."

Sitting still while things approach is always exciting. This is true of ducks; but when you
multiply ducks by lions it is still more true. We all crouched very low in the grass. She leapt
without hesitation into the ravine--and did not emerge.

This was a disappointment. We concluded she must have entered the stream bottom, and were just
about to move when Memba Sasa snapped his fingers. His sharp eyes had discovered her sneaking
along, belly to the ground, like the cat she was. The explanation of this change in her gait
was simple. Our companions had rounded the corner of the hill and were galloping in plain view
a half-mile away. The lioness had caught sight of them.

She was gliding by, dimly visible, through thick brush seventy yards distant. Now I could make
out a tawny patch that faded while I looked; now I could merely guess at a melting shadow.

"Stir her up," whispered Hill. "Never mind whether you hit. She'll sneak away."

At the shot she leaped fully out into the open with a snarl. Promptly I planted a Springfield
bullet in her ribs. She answered slightly to the hit, but did not shift position. Her head
up, her tail thrashing from side to side, her ears laid back, she stood there looking the landscape
over carefully point by point. She was searching for us, but as yet could not locate us. It
was really magnificent.

I attempted to throw in another cartridge, but because of my desire to work the bolt quietly,
in order not to attract the lioness's attention, I did not pull it back far enough, and the
cartridge jammed in the magazine. As evidence of Memba Sasa's coolness and efficiency, it is
to be written that he became aware of this as soon as I did. He thrust the.405 across my right
side, at the same time withdrawing the Springfield on the left. The motion was slight, but
the lioness caught it. Immediately she dropped her head and charged.

For the next few moments, naturally, I was pretty intent on lions. Nevertheless a corner of
my mind was aware of Memba Sasa methodically picking away at the jammed rifle, and paying no
attention whatever to the beast. Also I heard Hill making picturesque remarks about his gunbearer,
who had bolted with his second gun.

The lioness charged very fast, but very straight, about in the tearing, scrambling manner of
a terrier after a thrown ball. I got in the first shot as she came, the bullet ranging back
from the shoulder, and Hill followed it immediately with another from his.404 Jeffrey. She
growled at the bullets, and checked very slightly as they hit, but gave no other sign. Then
our second shots hit her both together. The mere shock stopped her short, but recovering instantly,
she sprang forward again. Hill's third shot came next, and perceptibly slowed and staggered,
but did not stop her. By this time she was quite close, and my own third shot reached her brain.
She rolled over dead.

Decidedly she was a game beast, and stood more hammering than any other lion I killed or saw
killed. Before the final shot in the brain she had taken one light bullet and five heavy ones
with hardly a wince. Memba Sasa uttered a loud grunt of satisfaction when she went down for
good. He had the Springfield reloaded and cocked, right at my elbow.

Hill's gunboy hovered uncertainly some distance in the rear. The sight of the charging lioness
had been too much for him and he had bolted. He was not actually up a tree; but he stood very
near one. He lost the gun and acquired a swift kick.

Our friends and the men now came up. The dogs made a great row over the dead lioness. She was
measured and skinned to accompaniment of the usual low-hummed chantings. We had with us a small
boy of ten or twelve years whose job it was to take care of the dogs and to remove ticks. In
fact he was known as the Tick Toto. As this was his first expedition afield, his father took
especial pains to smear him with fat from the lioness. This was to make him brave. I am bound
to confess the effect was not immediate.

XIX.

THE DOGS.

I soon discovered that we were hunting lions with the assistance of the dogs; not that the
dogs were hunting lions. They had not lost any lions, not they! My mental pictures of the snarling,
magnificent king of beasts surrounded by an equally snarling, magnificent pack vanished into
thin air.

Our system was to cover as much likely country as we could, and to let the dogs have a good
time. As I have before indicated, they were thoroughly doggy dogs, and interested in everything--except
able-bodied lions. None of the stick-at-your-heels in their composition. They ranged far and
wide through all sorts of cover, seeking what they could find in the way of porcupines, mongoose,
hares, birds, cats, and whatever else should interest any healthy-minded dog. If there happened
to be any lions in the path of these rangings, the dogs retired rapidly, discreetly, and with
every symptom of horrified disgust. If a dog came sailing out of a thicket, ki-yi-ing agitatedly,
and took up his position, tail between his legs, behind his master, we knew there was probably
a lion about. Thus we hunted lions with dogs.

But in order to be fair to these most excellent canines, it should be recorded that they recovered
a certain proportion of their nerve after a rifle had been fired. They then returned warily
to the--not attack--reconnaissance. This trait showed touching faith, and was a real compliment
to the marksmanship of their masters. Some day it will be misplaced. A little cautious scouting
on their part located the wounded beast; whereupon, at a respectful distance, they lifted their
voices. As a large element of danger in case of a wounded lion is the uncertainty as to his
whereabouts, it will be seen that the dogs were very valuable indeed. They seemed to know exactly
how badly hit any animal might happen to be, and to gauge their distance accordingly, until
at last, when the quarry was hammered to harmlessness, they closed in and began to worry the
nearly lifeless carcass. By this policy the dogs had a lot of fun hunting on their own hook,
preserved their lives from otherwise inevitable extinction, and were of great assistance in
saving their masters' skins.

One member of the pack, perhaps two, were, however, rather pathetic figures. I refer to the
setters, Wayward and Girlie. Ranger, Ruby, Ben, and Nero scampered merrily over the landscape
after anything that stirred, from field mice to serval cats. All was game to their catholic
tastes; and you may be sure, in a country like Africa, they had few dull moments. But Wayward
and Girlie had been brought up in a more exclusive manner. Their early instincts had been supplemented
by a rigorous early training. Game to them meant birds, and birds only. Furthermore, they had
been solemnly assured by human persons in whom they had the utmost confidence, that but one
sequence of events was permissible or even thinkable in the presence of game. The Dog at first
intimation by scent must convey the fact to the Man, must proceed cautiously to locate exactly,
must then stiffen to a point which he must hold staunchly, no matter how distracting events
might turn out, or how long an interval might elapse. The Man must next walk up the birds;
shoot at them, perhaps kill one, then command the Dog to retrieve. The Dog must on no account
move from his tracks until such command is given. All the affair is perfectly simple; but quite
inflexible. Any variation in this procedure fills the honest bird dog's mind with the same
horror and dismay experienced by a well-brought-up young man who discovers that he has on shoes
of the wrong colour. It isn't done, you know.

Consider, then, Wayward and Girlie in a country full of game birds. They quarter wide to right,
then cross to left, their heads high, their feather tails waving in the most approved good
form. When they find birds they draw to their points in the best possible style; stiffen out--and
wait. It is now, according to all good ethics, up to the Man. And the Man and his companions
go right on by, paying absolutely no attention either to the situation or one's own magnificent
piece of work! What is one to conclude? That our early training is all wrong? that we are at
one experience to turn apostate to the settled and only correct order of things? Or that our
masters are no gentlemen? That is a pretty difficult thing, an impossible thing, to conclude
of one's own master. But it leaves one in a fearful state mentally; and one has no idea of
what to do!

Wayward was a perfect gentleman, and he played the game according to the very best traditions.
He conscientiously pointed every bird he could get his nose on. Furthermore he was absolutely
staunch, and held his point even when the four non-bird dogs rushed in ahead of him. The expression
of puzzlement, grief, shock, and sadness in his eyes deepened as bird after bird soared away
without a shot. Girlie was more liberal-minded. She pointed her birds, and backed Wayward at
need, but when the other dogs rushed her point, she rushed too. And when we swept on by her,
leaving her on point, instead of holding it quixotically, as did Wayward, until the bird sneaked
away, she merely waited until we were out of sight, and then tried to catch it. Finally Captain
D. remarked that, lions or no lions, he was not going to stand it any longer. He got out a
shotgun, and all one afternoon killed grouse over Wayward, to the latter's intense relief.
His ideals had been rehabilitated.

XX.

BONDONI.

We followed many depressions, in which might be lions, until about three o'clock in the afternoon.
Then we climbed the gently-rising long slope that culminated, far above the plains, in the
peak of a hill called Bondoni. From a distance it was steep and well defined; but, like most
of these larger kopjes, its actual ascent, up to the last few hundred feet, was so gradual
that we hardly knew we were climbing. At the summit we found our men and the bullock cart.
There also stood an oblong blockhouse of stone, the walls two feet thick and ten feet high.
It was entered only by a blind angle passage, and was strong enough, apparently, to resist
small artillery. This structure was simply an ostrich corral, and bitter experience had shown
the massive construction absolutely necessary as adequate protection, in this exposed and solitary
spot, against the lions.

We had some tea and bread and butter, and then Clifford Hill and I set out afoot after meat.
Only occasionally do these hard-working settlers get a chance for hunting on the plains so
near them; and now they had promised their native retainers that they would send back a treat
of game. To carry this promised luxury, a number of the villagers had accompanied the bullock
wagon. As we were to move on next day, it became very desirable to get the meat promptly while
still near home.

We slipped over to the other side, and by good fortune caught sight of a dozen zebras feeding
in scrub half-way down the hill. They were out of their proper environment up there, but we
were glad of it. Down on our tummies, then, we dropped, and crawled slowly forward through
the high, sweet grasses. We were in the late afternoon shadow of the hill, and we enjoyed the
mild skill of the stalk. Taking advantage of every cover, slipping over into little ravines,
lying very flat when one of the beasts raised his head, we edged nearer and nearer. We were
already well within range, but it amused us to play the game. Finally, at one hundred yards,
we came to a halt. The zebra showed very handsome at that range, for even their smaller leg
stripes were all plainly visible. Of course at that distance there could be small chance of
missing, and we owned one each. The Wakamba, who had been watching eagerly, swarmed down, shouting.

We dined just at sunset under a small tree at the very top of the peak. Long bars of light
shot through the western clouds; the plain turned from solid earth to a mysterious sea of shifting
twilights; the buttes stood up, wrapped in veils of soft desert colours; Kilimanjaro hung suspended
like a rose-coloured bubble above the abyss beyond the world.

XXI.

RIDING THE PLAINS.

From the mere point of view of lions, lion A hunting was very slow work indeed. It meant riding
the whole of long days, from dawn until dark, investigating miles of country that looked all
alike and in which we seemed to get nowhere. One by one the long billows of plain fell behind,
until our camp hill had turned blue behind us, and we seemed to be out in illimitable space,
with no possibility, in an ordinary lifetime, of ever getting in touch with anything again.
What from above had looked as level as a floor now turned into a tremendously wide and placid
ground swell. As a consequence we were always going imperceptibly up and up and up to a long-delayed
sky-line, or tipping as gently down the other side of the wave. From crest to crest of these
long billows measured two or three miles. The vertical distance in elevation from trough to
top was perhaps not over fifty to one hundred feet.

Slowly we rode along the shallow grass and brush ravines in the troughs of the low billows,
while the dogs worked eagerly in and out of cover, and our handful of savages cast stones and
shouted. Occasionally we divided forces, and beat the length of a hill, two of us lying in
wait at one end for the possible lion, the rest sweeping the sides and summits. Many animals
came bounding along, but no lions. Then Harold Hill, unlimbering a huge, many-jointed telescope,
would lie flat on his back, and sight the fearsome instrument over his crossed feet, in a general
bird's-eye view of the plains for miles around. While he was at it we were privileged to look
about us, less under the burden of responsibility. We could make out the game as little, light-coloured
dots and speckles, thousands upon thousands of them, thicker than cattle ever grazed on the
open range, and as far as the eye could make them out, and then a glance through our glasses
picked them up again for mile after mile. Even the six-power could go no farther. The imagination
was left the vision of more leagues of wild animals even to the half-guessed azure mountains--and
beyond. I had seen abundant game elsewhere in Africa, but nothing like the multitudes inhabiting
the Kapiti Plains at that time of year. In other seasons this locality is comparatively deserted.

The glass revealing nothing in our line, we rode again to the lower levels, and again took
up our slow, painstaking search.

But although three days went by in this manner without our getting a glimpse of lions, they
were far from being days lost. Minor adventure filled our hours. What elsewhere would be of
major interest and strange and interesting experience met us at every turn. The game, while
abundant, was very shy. This had nothing to do with distrust of hunters, but merely with the
fact that it was the season of green grass. We liked to come upon animals unexpectedly, to
see them buck-jump and cavort.

Otherwise we rode in a moving space cleared of animals, the beasts unobtrusively giving way
before us, and as unobtrusively closing in behind. The sun flashed on the spears of savages
travelling single file across the distance. Often we stopped short to gaze upon a wild and
tumbled horizon of storm that Gustave Doré might have drawn.

The dogs were always joyously routing out some beast, desirable from their point of view, and
chasing it hopelessly about, to our great amusement. Once they ran into a giant porcupine-about
the size a setter would be, with shorter legs-which did not understand running away. They came
upon it in a dense thicket, and the ensuing row was unholy. They managed to kill the porcupine
among them, after which we plucked barbed quills from some very grieved dogs. The quills were
large enough to make excellent penholders. The dogs also swore by all canine gods that they
wouldn't do a thing to a hyena, if only they could get hold of one. They never got hold of
one, for the hyena is a coward. His skull and teeth, however, are as big and powerful as those
of a lioness; so I do not know which was luckier in his avoidance of trouble--he or the dogs.

Nor from the shooting standpoint did we lack for sport. We had to shoot for our men, and we
occasionally needed meat ourselves. It was always interesting, when such necessities arose,
to stalk the shy buck and do long-range rifle practice. This shooting, however, was done only
after the day's hunt was over. We had no desire to spoil our lion chances.

The long circle towards our evening camp always proved very long indeed. We arrived at dusk
to find supper ready for us. As we were old campaigners we ate this off chop boxes as tables,
and sat on the ground. It was served by a Wakamba youth we had nicknamed Herbert Spencer, on
account of his gigantic intellect. Herbert meant well, but about all he succeeded in accomplishing
was a pathetically wrinkled brow of care and scared eyes. He had never been harshly treated
by any of us, but he acted as though always ready to bolt. If there were twenty easy right
methods of doing a thing and one difficult wrong method, Herbert would get the latter every
time. No amount of experience could teach him the logic of our simplest ways. One evening he
brought a tumbler of mixed water and condensed milk. Harold Hill glanced into the receptacle.

"Stir it," he commanded briefly.

Herbert Spencer obeyed. We talked about something else. Some five or ten minutes later one
of us noticed that Herbert was still stirring, and called attention to the fact. When the latter
saw our eyes were on him he speeded up until the spoon fairly rattled in the tumbler. Then,
when he thought our attention had relaxed again, he relaxed also his efforts--the spoon travelled
slower and slower in its dreamy circle. We amused ourselves for some time thus. Then we became
so weak from laughter that we fell backward off our seats, and some one gasped a command that
Herbert cease.

I am afraid, after a little, that we rather enjoyed mildly tormenting poor Herbert Spencer.
He tried so hard, and looked so scared, and was so unbelievably stupid! Almost always he had
to pick his orders word by word from a vast amount of high-flown, unnecessary English.

"O Herbert Spencer," the command would run, "if you would condescend to bend your mighty intellect
to the lowly subject of maji, and will snatch time from your profound cerebrations to assure
its being moto sans, I would esteem it infinite condescension on your part to let pesi pesi."

And Herbert, listening to all this with a painful, strained intensity, would catch the six-key
words, and would falter forth a trembling "N'dio bwana."

Somewhere down deep within Herbert Spencer's make up, however, was a sense of moral duty. When
we finally broke camp for good, on the great hill of Lucania, Herbert Spencer, relieved from
his job, bolted like a shot. As far as we could see him he was running at top speed. If he
had not possessed a sense of duty, he would have done this long ago.

We camped always well up on some of the numerous hills; for, although anxious enough to find
lions in the daytime, we had no use for them at all by night. This usually meant that the boys
had to carry water some distance. We kept a canvas bath-tub full for the benefit of the dogs,
from which they could drink at any time. This necessary privilege after a hard day nearly drove
Captain D. crazy. It happened like this:

We were riding along the slope of a hillside, when in the ravine, a half mile away and below
us, we saw something dark pop up in sight and then down again. We shouted to some of the savage
Wakamba to go and investigate. They closed in from all sides, their long spears poised to strike.
At the last moment out darted, not an animal, but a badly frightened old man armed with bow
and arrow. He dashed out under the upraised spears, clasped one of the men around the knees,
and implored protection. Our savages, their spears ready, glanced over their shoulders for
instruction. They would have liked nothing better than to have spitted the poor old fellow.

We galloped down as fast as possible to the rescue. With reluctance our spearmen drew back,
releasing their prize. We picked up his scattered bows and arrows, restored them to him, and
uttered many reassurances. He was so badly frightened that he could not stand for the trembling
of his knees. Undoubtedly he thought that war had broken out, and that he was the first of
its unconscious victims. After calming him down, we told him what we were doing, and offered
to shoot him meat if he cared to accompany us. He accepted the offer with joy. So pleased and
relieved was he, that he skipped about like a young and nimble goat. His hunting companion,
who all this time had stood atop of a hill at a safe distance, viewed these performances with
concern. Our captive shouted loudly for him to come join us and share in the good fortune.
Not he! He knew a trap when he saw one! Not a bit disturbed by the tales this man would probably
carry back home, our old fellow attached himself to us for three days!

Near sundown, to make our promise good, and also to give our own men a feast, I shot two hartebeeste
near camp.

The evening was beautiful. The Machakos Range, miles distant across the valley, was mantled
with thick, soft clouds. From our elevation we could see over them, and catch the glow of moonlight
on their upper surfaces. We were very tired, so we turned in early and settled ourselves for
a good rest.

Outside our tent the little "Injun fire" we had built for our own comfort died down to coals.
A short distance away, however, was a huge bonfire around which all the savages were gathered.
They squatted comfortably on their heels, roasting meat. Behind each man was planted his glittering
long-bladed spear. The old man held the place of honour, as befitted his flirtation with death
that morning. Everybody was absolutely happy--a good fire, plenty of meat, and strangers with
whom to have a grand "shauri." The clatter of tongues was a babel, for almost every one talked
at once and excitedly. Those who did not talk crooned weird, improvised chants, in which they
detailed the doings of the camp.

We fell very quickly into the half doze of too great exhaustion. It never became more than
a half doze. I suppose every one who reads this has had at some time the experience of dropping
asleep to the accompaniment of some noise that ought soon to cease--a conversation in the next
room, singing, the barking of a dog, the playing of music, or the like. The fact that it ought
soon to cease, permits the falling asleep. When, after an interval, the subconsciousness finds
the row still going on, inexcusable and unabated, it arouses the victim to staring exasperation.
That was our case here. Those natives should have turned in for sleep after a reasonable amount
of pow-wow. They did nothing of the kind. On the contrary, I dragged reluctantly back to consciousness
and the realization that they had quite happily settled down to make a night of it. I glanced
across the little tent to where Captain D. lay on his cot. He was staring straight upward,
his eyes wide open.

After a few seconds he slipped out softly and silently. Our little fire had sunk to embers.
A dozen sticks radiated from the centre of coals. Each made a firebrand with one end cool to
the grasp. Captain D. hurled one of these at the devoted and unconscious group.

It whirled through the air and fell plunk in the other fire, scattering sparks and coals in
all directions. The second was under way before the first had landed. It hit a native with
similar results, plus astonished and grieved language. The rest followed in rapid-magazine-fire.
Every one hit its mark fair and square. The air was full of sparks exploding in all directions.
The brush was full of Wakamba, their blankets flapping in the breeze of their going. The convention
was adjourned. There fell the sucking vacuum of a great silence. Captain D., breathing righteous
wrath, flopped heavily and determinedly down on his cot. I caught a faint snicker from the
tent next door.

Captain D. sighed deeply, turned over, and prepared to sleep. Then one of the dogs uprose--I
think it was Ben--stretched himself, yawned, approached deliberately, and began to drink from
the canvas bath-tub just outside. He drank--lap, lap, lap, lap--for a very long time. It seemed
incredible that any mere dog--or canvas bath-tub--could hold so much water. The steady repetition
of this sound long after it should logically have ceased was worse than the shenzi gathering
around the fire. Each lap should have been the last, but it was not. The shenzi convention
had been abated with firebrands, but the dog was strictly within his rights. The poor pups
had had a long day with little water, and they could hardly be blamed for feeling a bit feverish
now. At last Ben ceased. Next morning Captain D. claimed vehemently that he had drunk two hours
forty-nine minutes and ten seconds. With a contented sigh Ben lay down. Then Ruby got up, shook
herself, and yawned. A bright idea struck her. She too went over and had a drink. After that
I, personally, went to sleep. But in the morning I found Captain D. staring-eyed and strung
nearly to madness, trying feverishly to calculate how seven dogs drinking on an average of
three hours apiece could have finished by morning. When Harold Hill innocently asked if he
had slept well, the captain threw the remaining but now extinct firebrand at him.

One of the safari boys, a big Baganda, had twisted his foot a little, and it had swelled up
considerably. In the morning he came to have it attended to. The obvious treatment was very
hot water and rest; but it would never do to tell him so. The recommendation of so simple a
remedy would lose me his faith. So I gave him a little dab of tick ointment wrapped in a leaf.

"This," said I, "is most wonderful medicine; but it is also most dangerous. If you were to
rub it on your foot or your hand or any part of you, that part would drop off. But if you wash
the part in very hot water continuously for a half hour, and then put on the medicine, it is
good, and will cure you very soon." I am sure I do not know what they put in tick ointment;
nor, for the purpose, did it greatly matter. That night, also, Herbert Spencer reached the
climax of his absurdities. The chops he had cooked did not quite suffice for our hunger, so
we instructed him to give us some of the leg. By this we meant steak, of course. Herbert Spencer
was gone so long a time that finally we went to see what possibly could be the matter. We found
him trying desperately to cook the whole leg in a frying-pan!

XXII.

THE SECOND LIONESS.

Now our luck changed most abruptly. We had been riding since early morning over the wide plains.
By and by we came to a wide, shallow, flood-water course carpeted with lava boulders and scant,
scattered brush. Two of us took one side of it, and two the other. At this we were just within
hailing distance. The boys wandered down the middle.

Game was here very abundant, and in this broken country proved quite approachable. I saw one
Grant's gazelle head, in especial, that greatly tempted me; but we were hunting lions, and
other shooting was out of place. Also the prospects for lions had brightened, for we were continually
seeing hyenas in packs of from three to six. They lay among the stones, but galloped away at
our approach. The game paid not the slightest attention to these huge, skulking brutes. One
passed within twenty feet of a hartebeeste; the latter hardly glanced at him. As the hyena
is lazy as well as cowardly, and almost never does his killing, we inferred a good meat supply
to gather so many of them in one place. From a tributary ravine we flushed nineteen!

Harold Hill was riding with me on the right bank. His quick eye caught a glimpse of something
beyond our companions on the left side. A glance through the glasses showed me that it was
a lion, just disappearing over the hill. At once we turned our horses to cross. It was a heavy
job. We were naturally in a tremendous hurry; and the footing among those boulders and rounded
rocks was so vile that a very slow trot was the best we could accomplish. And that was only
by standing in our stirrups, and holding up our horses' heads by main strength. We reached
the sky-line in time to see a herd of game stampeding away from a depression a half-mile away.
We fixed our eyes on that point, and a moment later saw the lion or lioness, as it turned out,
leap a gully and come out the other side.

The footing down this slope, too, was appalling, consisting mainly of chunks of lava interspersed
with smooth, rounded stones and sparse tufts of grass. In spite of the stones we managed a
sort of stumbling gallop. Why we did not all go down in a heap I do not know. At any rate we
had no chance to watch our quarry, for we were forced to keep our eyes strictly to our way.
When finally we emerged from that tumble of rocks, she had disappeared.

Either she had galloped out over the plains, or she had doubled back to take cover in the ravine.
In the latter case she would stand. Our first job, therefore, was to determine whether she
had escaped over the open country. To this end we galloped our horses madly in four different
directions, pushing them to the utmost, swooping here and there in wide circles. That was an
exhilarating ten minutes until we had surmounted every billow of the plain, spied in all directions,
and assured ourselves beyond doubt that she had not run off. The horses fairly flew, spurning
the hard sod, leaping the rock dikes, skipping nimbly around the pig holes, turning like cow-ponies
under pressure of knee and rein. Finally we drew up, converged, and together jogged our sweating
horses back to the ravine. There we learned from the boys that nothing more had been seen of
our quarry.

We dismounted, handed our mounts to their syces, and prepared to make afoot a clean sweep of
the wide, shallow ravine. Here was where the dogs came in handy. We left a rearguard of two
men, and slowly began our beat.

The ravine could hardly be called a ravine; rather a shallow depression with banks not over
a foot high, and with a varying width of from two to two hundred feet. The grass grew very
patchy, and not very high; in fact, it seemed hardly tall enough to conceal anything as large
as a lioness. We men walked along the edge of this depression, while the dogs ranged back and
forth in its bottom.

We had gone thus a quarter-mile when one of the rearguard came running up.

"Bwana," said he, "we have seen the lioness. She is lying in a patch of grass. After you had
passed, we saw her raise her head."

It seemed impossible that she should have escaped both our eyes and the dogs' noses, but we
returned. The man pointed out a thin growth of dried, yellow grass ten feet in diameter. Then
it seemed even more incredible. Apparently we could look right through every foot of it. The
man persisted, so we advanced in battle array. At thirty yards Captain D. saw the black tips
of her ears. We all looked hard, and at last made her out, lying very flat, her head between
her paws. Even then she was shadowy and unreal, and, as I have said, the cover did not look
thick enough to conceal a good-sized dog.

As though she realized she had been sighted, she at this moment leapt to her feet. Instantly
I put a.405 bullet into her shoulder. Any other lion I ever saw or heard of would in such circumstances
and at such a distance immediately have charged home. She turned tail and ran away. I missed
her as she ran, then knocked her down with a third shot. She got up again, but was immediately
hit by Captain D.'s.350 Magnum and brought to a halt. The dogs, seeing her turn tail and hearing
our shots, had scrambled madly after her. We dared not shoot again for fear of hitting one
of them, so we dashed rapidly into the grass and out the other side. Before we could get to
her, she had sent Ruby flying through the air, and had then fallen over dead. Ruby got off
lucky with only a deep gash the length of her leg.

This was the only instance I experienced of a wounded lion showing the white feather. She was,
however, only about three-quarters grown, and was suffering from diarrhoea.

XXIII.

THE BIG LION.

The boys skinned her while we ate lunch. Then we started several of them back towards camp
with the trophy, and ourselves cut across country to a small river known as the Stony Athi.
There we dismounted from our horses, and sent them and the boys atop the ridge above the stream,
while we ourselves explored afoot the hillside along the river.

This was a totally different sort of country from that to which we had been accustomed. Imagine
a very bouldery hillside planted thickly with knee-high brambles and more sparsely with higher
bushes. They were not really brambles, of course, but their tripping, tangling, spiky qualities
were the same. We had to force our way through these, or step from boulder to boulder. Only
very rarely did we get a little rubbly clear space to walk in, and then for only ten or twenty
feet. We tried in spaced intervals to cover the whole hillside. It was very hard work. The
boys, with the horses, kept pace with us on the sky-line atop, and two or three hundred yards away.

We had proceeded in this fashion for about a mile, when suddenly, and most unexpectedly, the
biggest lion I ever saw leapt straight up from a bush twenty-five yards in front of me, and
with a tremendous roar vanished behind another bush. I had just time to throw up the.405 shotgun-fashion
and let drive a snapshot. Clifford Hill, who was ten yards to my right, saw the fur fly, and
we all heard the snarl as the bullet hit. Naturally we expected an instant charge, but, as
things turned out, it was evident the lion had not seen us at all. He had leapt at the sight
of our men and horses on the sky-line, and when the bullet hit he must have ascribed it to
them. At any rate, he began to circle through the tangled vines in their direction.

From their elevation they could follow his movements. At once they set up howls of terror and
appeals for help. Some began frantically to run back and forth. None of them tried to run away;
there was nowhere to go! The only thing that saved them was the thick and spiky character of
the cover. The lion, instead of charging straight and fast, was picking an easy way.

We tore directly up hill as fast as we were able, leaping from rock to rock, and thrusting
recklessly through the tangle. About half-way up I jumped to the top of a high, conical rock,
and thence by good luck caught sight of the lion's great yellow head advancing steadily about
eighty yards away. I took as good a sight as I could and pulled trigger. The recoil knocked
me clear off the boulder, but as I fell I saw his tail go up and knew that I had hit. At once
Clifford Hill and I jumped up on the rock again, but the lion had moved out of sight. By this
time, however, the sound of the shots and the smell of blood had caused the dogs to close in.
They did not, of course, attempt to attack the lion, nor even to get very near him, but their
snarling and barking showed us the beast's whereabouts. Even this much is bad judgment on their
part, as a number of them have been killed at it. The thicket burst into an unholy row.

We all manoeuvred rapidly for position. Again luck was with me, for again I saw his great head,
the mane standing out all around it; and for the second time I planted a heavy bullet square
in his chest. This stopped his advance; he lay down. His head was up and his eyes glared, as
he uttered the most reverberating and magnificent roars and growls. The dogs leapt and barked
around him. We came quite close, and I planted my fourth bullet in his shoulder. Even this
was not enough. It took a fifth in the same place to finish him, and he died at last biting
great chunks of earth.

The howls from the hill top ceased. All gathered to marvel at the lion's immense size. He measured
three feet nine inches at the shoulder, and nine feet eleven inches between stakes, or ten
feet eleven inches along contour. This is only five inches under record. We weighed him piecemeal,
after a fashion, and put him between 550 and 600 pounds.

But these are only statistics, and mean little unless a real attempt is made to visualize them.
As a matter of fact, his mere height--that of a medium-size zebra-was little unless accented
by the impression of his tremendous power and quickness.

We skinned him, and then rode four long hours to camp. We arrived at dark, and at once set
to work preparing the trophy. A dozen of us squatted around the skin, working by lantern light.
Memba Sasa had had nothing to eat since before dawn, but in his pride and delight he refused
to touch a mouthful until the job was finished. Several times we urged him to stop long enough
for even a bite. He steadily declined, and whetted his knife, his eyes gleaming with delight,
his lips crooning one of his weird Monumwezi songs. At eleven o'clock the task was done. Then
I presented Memba Sasa with a tall mug of coffee and lots of sugar. He considered this a great
honour.

XXIV.

THE FIFTEEN LIONS.

Two days before Captain D. and I were to return to Juja we approached, about eleven o'clock
in the morning, a long, low, rugged range of hills called Lucania. They were not very high,
but bold with cliffs, buttes, and broken rocky stretches. Here we were to make our final hunt.

We led our safari up to the level of a boulder flat between two deep cañons that ran down from
the hills. Here should be water, so we gathered under a lone little tree, and set about directing
the simple disposition of our camp. Herbert Spencer brought us a cold lunch, and we sat down
to rest and refreshment before tackling the range.

Hardly had we taken the first mouthfuls, however, when Memba Sasa, gasping for breath, came
tearing up the slope from the cañon where he had descended for a drink. "Lions!" he cried,
guardedly. "I went to drink, and I saw four lions. Two were lying under the shade, but two
others were playing like puppies, one on its back."

While he was speaking a lioness wandered out from the cañon and up the opposite slope. She
was somewhere between six and nine hundred yards away, and looked very tiny; but the binoculars
brought us up to her with a jump. Through them she proved to be a good one. She was not at
all hurried, but paused from time to time to yawn and look about her. After a short interval,
another, also a lioness, followed in her footsteps. She too had climbed clear when a third,
probably a full-grown but still immature lion, came out, and after him the fourth.

"You were right," we told Memba Sasa, "there are your four."

But while we watched, a fifth, again at the spaced interval, this time a maned lion, clambered
leisurely up in the wake of his family; and after him another, and another, and yet another!
We gasped, and sat down, the better to steady our glasses with our knees. There seemed no end
to lions. They came out of that apparently inexhaustible cañon bed one at a time and at the
same regular intervals; perhaps twenty yards or so apart. It was almost as though they were
being released singly. Finally we had fifteen in sight.

It was a most magnificent spectacle, and we could enjoy it unhurried by the feeling that we
were losing opportunities. At that range it would be silly to open fire. If we had descended
to the cañon in order to follow them out the other side, they would merely have trotted away.
Our only chance was to wait until they had disappeared from sight, and then to attempt a wide
circle in order to catch them from the flank. In the meantime we had merely to sit still.

Therefore we stared through our glasses, and enjoyed to the full this most unusual sight. There
were four cubs about as big as setter dogs, four full-grown but immature youngsters, four lionesses,
and three male lions. They kept their spaced, single file formation for two-thirds the ascent
of the hill--probably the nature of the ground forced them to it--and then gradually drew together.
Near the top, but still below the summit, they entered a jumble of boulders and stopped. We
could make out several of them lying down. One fine old yellow fellow stretched himself comfortably
atop a flat rock, in the position of a bronze lion on a pedestal. We waited twenty minutes
to make sure they were not going to move. Then, leaving all our men except the gunbearers under
the tree, we slipped back until out of sight, and began to execute our flank movement. The
chances seemed good. The jumble of boulders was surrounded by open country, and it was improbable
the lions could leave it without being seen. We had arranged with our men a system of signals.

For two hours we walked very hard in order to circle out of sight, down wind, and to gain the
other side of the ridge back of the lions. We purposed slipping over the ridge and attacking
from above. Even this was but a slight advantage. The job was a stiff one, for we might expect
certainly the majority to charge.

Therefore, when we finally deployed in skirmish order and bore down on that patch of brush
and boulders, we were braced for the shock of battle. We found nothing. Our men, however, signalled
that the lions had not left cover. After a little search, however, we discovered a very shallow
depression running slantwise up the hill and back of the cover. So slight it was that even
the glasses had failed to show it from below. The lions had in all probability known about
us from the start, and were all the time engaged in withdrawing after their leisurely fashion.

Of course we hunted for them; in fact, we spent two days at it; but we never found trace of
them again. The country was too hard for tracking. They had left Lucania. Probably by the time
we had completed our two hours of flanking movement they were five miles away. The presence
of cubs would account for this. In ordinary circumstances we should have had a wonderful and
exciting fight. But the sight of those fifteen great beasts was one I shall never forget.

After we had hunted Lucania thoroughly we parted company with the Hills, and returned to Juja Farm.

PART V.

THE TSAVO RIVER.

XXV.

VOI.

Part way up the narrow-gauge railroad from the coast is a station called Voi. On his way to
the interior the traveller stops there for an evening meal. It is served in a high, wide stone
room by white-robed Swahilis under command of a very efficient and quiet East Indian. The voyager
steps out into the darkness to look across the way upon the outlines of two great rounded hills
against an amethyst sky. That is all he ever sees of Voi, for on the down trip he passes through
it about two o'clock in the morning.

At that particularly trying hour F. and I descended, and attempted, by the light of lanterns,
to sort out twenty safari boys strange to us, and miscellaneous camp stores. We did not entirely
succeed. Three men were carried on down the line, and the fly to our tent was never seen again.

The train disappeared. Our boys, shivering, crept into corners. We took possession of the dak-bungalow
maintained by the railroad for just such travellers as ourselves. It was simply a high stone
room, with three iron beds, and a corner so cemented that one could pour pails of water over
one's self without wetting the whole place. The beds were supplied with mosquito canopies and
strong wire springs. Over these we spread our own bedding, and thankfully resumed our slumbers.

The morning discovered to us Voi as the station, the district commissioner's house on a distant
side hill, and a fairly extensive East Indian bazaar. The keepers of the latter traded with
the natives. Immediately about the station grew some flat shady trees. All else was dense thorn
scrub pressing close about the town. Opposite were the tall, rounded mountains.

Nevertheless, in spite of its appearance, Voi has its importance in the scheme of things. From
it, crossing the great Serengetti desert, runs the track to Kilimanjaro and that part of German
East Africa. The Germans have as yet no railroad; so they must perforce patronize the British
line thus far, and then trek across. As the Kilimanjaro district is one rich in natives and
trade, the track is well used. Most of the transport is done by donkeys--either in carts or
under the pack saddle. As the distance from water to water is very great, the journey is a
hard one. This fact, and the incidental consideration that from fly and hardship the mortality
in donkeys is very heavy, pushes the freight rates high. And that fact accounts for the motor
car, which has been my point of aim from the beginning of this paragraph.

The motor car plies between Voi and the German line at exorbitant rates. Our plan was to have
it take us and some galvanized water tanks out into the middle of the desert and dump us down
there. So after breakfast we hunted up the owner.

He proved to be a very short, thick-set, blond German youth who justified Weber and Fields.
In fact, he talked so exactly like those comedians that my task in visualizing him to you is
somewhat lightened. If all, instead of merely a majority of my readers, had seen Weber and
Fields that task would vanish.

We explained our plan, and asked him his price.

"Sefen hundert and feefty rupees,"[11] said he uncompromisingly.

He was abrupt, blunt, and insulting. As we wanted transportation very much--though not seven
hundred and fifty rupees' worth--we persisted. He offered an imperturbable take-it-or-leave-it
stolidity. The motor truck stood near. I said something technical about the engine; then something
more. He answered these remarks, though grudgingly. I suggested that it took a mighty good
driver to motor through this rough country. He mentioned a particular hill. I proposed that
we should try the station restaurant for beer while he told me about it. He grunted, but headed
for the station.

For two hours we listened to the most blatant boasting. He was a great driver; he had driven
for M., the American millionaire; for the Chinese Ambassador to France; for Grand-Duke Alexis;
for the Kaiser himself! We learned how he had been the trusted familiar of these celebrities,
how on various occasions--all detailed at length--he had been treated by them as an equal;
and he told us sundry sly, slanderous, and disgusting anecdotes of these worthies, his forefinger
laid one side his nose. When we finally got him worked up to the point of going to get some
excessively bad photographs, "I haf daken myself!" we began to have hopes. So we tentatively
approached once more the subject of transportation.

Then the basis of the trouble came out. One Davis, M.P. from England, had also dealt with our
friend. Davis, as we reconstructed him, was of the blunt type, with probably very little feeling
of democracy for those in subordinate positions, and with, most certainly, a good deal of insular
and racial prejudice. Evidently a rather vague bargain had been struck, and the motor had set
forth. Then ensued financial wranglings and disputes as to terms. It ended by useless hauteur
on Davis's part, and inexcusable but effective action by the German. For Davis found himself
dumped down on the Serengetti desert and left there.

We heard all this in excruciatingly funny Weberandfieldese, many times repeated. The German
literally beat his breast and cried aloud against Davis. We unblushingly sacrificed a probably
perfectly worthy Davis to present need, and cried out against him too.

"Am I like one dog?" demanded the German fervently.

"Certainly not," we cried with equal fervour. We both like dogs.

Then followed wearisomely reiterated assurances that we, at least, knew how a gentleman should
be treated, and more boasting of proud connections in the past. But the end of it was a bargain
of reasonable dimensions for ourselves, our personal boys, and our loads. Under plea of starting
our safari boys off we left him, and crept, with shattered nerves, around the corner of the
dak-bungalow. There we lurked, busy at pretended affairs, until our friend swaggered away to
the Hindu quarters, where, it seems, he had his residence.

About ten o'clock a small safari marched in afoot. It had travelled all of two nights across
the Thirst, and was glad to get there. The single white man in charge had been three years
alone among the natives near Kilimanjaro, and he was now out for a six months' vacation at
home. Two natives in the uniform of Sudanese troops hovered near him very sorrowful. He splashed
into the water of the dak-bungalow, and then introduced himself. We sat in teakwood easy-chairs
and talked all day. He was a most interesting, likeable, and cordial man, at any stage of the
game. The game, by means of French vermouth--of all drinks!--progressed steadily. We could
hardly blame him for celebrating. By the afternoon he wanted to give things away. So insistent
was he that F. finally accepted an ebony walking-stick, and I an ebony knife inset with ivory.
If we had been the least bit unscrupulous, I am afraid the relatives at home would have missed
their African souvenirs. He went out viâ freight car, all by himself, seated regally in a steamer
chair between two wide-open side doors, one native squatted on either side to see that he did
not lurch out into the landscape.

FOOTNOTES:

[11] Fifty pounds.

XXVI.

THE FRINGE-EARED ORYX.

At ten o'clock the following morning we started. On the high front seat, under an awning, sat
the German, F., and I. The body of the truck was filled with safari loads, Memba Sasa, Simba
Mohammed, and F.'s boy, whose name I have forgotten. The arrangement on the front seat was
due to a strike on the part of F.

"Look here," said he to me, "you've got to sit next that rotter. We want him to bring us back
some water from the other side, and I'd break his neck in ten minutes. You sit next him and
give him your motor car patter."

Therefore I took the middle seat and played chorus. The road was not a bad one, as natural
mountain roads go; I have myself driven worse in California. Our man, however, liked to exaggerate
all the difficulties, and while doing it to point to himself with pride as a perfect wonder.
Between times he talked elementary mechanics.

"The inflammation of the sparkling plugs?" was one of his expressions that did much to compensate.

The country mounted steadily through the densest thorn scrub I have ever seen. It was about
fifteen feet high, and so thick that its penetration, save by made tracks, would have been
an absolute impossibility. Our road ran like a lane between two spiky jungles. Bold bright
mountains cropped up, singly and in short ranges, as far as the eye could see them.

This sort of thing for twenty miles--more than a hard day's journey on safari. We made it in
a little less than two hours; and the breeze of our going kept us reasonably cool under our
awning. We began to appreciate the real value of our diplomacy.

At noon we came upon a series of unexpectedly green and clear small hills just under the frown
of a sheer rock cliff. This oasis in the thorn was occupied by a few scattered native huts
and the usual squalid Indian dukka, or trading store. At this last our German friend stopped.
From under the seat he drew out a collapsible table and a basket of provisions. These we were
invited to share. Diplomacy's highest triumph!

After lunch we surmounted our first steep grade to the top of a ridge. This we found to be
the beginning of a long elevated plateau sweeping gently downward to a distant heat mist, which
later experience proved a concealment to snowcapped Kilimanjaro. This plateau also looked to
be covered with scrub. As we penetrated it, however, we found the bushes were more or less
scattered, while in the wide, shallow dips between the undulations were open grassy meadows.
There was no water. Isolated mountains or peaked hills showed here and there in the illimitable
spaces, some of them fairly hull down, all of them toilsomely distant. This was the Serengetti
itself.

In this great extent of country somewhere were game herds. They were exceedingly migratory,
and nobody knew very much about them. One of the species would be the rare and localized fringe-eared
oryx. This beast was the principal zoological end of our expedition; though, of course, as
always, we hoped for a chance lion. Geographically we wished to find the source of the Swanee
River, and to follow that stream down to its joining with the Tsavo. About half-past one we
passed our safari boys. We had intended to stop and replenish their canteens from our water-drums;
but they told us they had encountered a stray and astonishing shower, and did not need more.
We left them trudging cheerfully across the desert. They had travelled most of the night before,
would do the same in the night to come, and should reach our camping-place about noon of the
next day.

We ourselves stopped about four o'clock. In a few hours we had come a hard three days' march.
Over the side went our goods. We bade the German a very affectionate farewell; for he was still
to fill our drums from one of the streams out of Kilimanjaro and deliver them to us on his
return trip next day. We then all turned to and made camp. The scrub desert here was exactly
like the scrub desert for the last sixty miles.

The next morning we were up and off before sunrise. In this job time was a very large element
of the contract. We must find our fringe-eared oryx before our water supply gave out. Therefore
we had resolved not to lose a moment.

The sunrise was most remarkable--lace work, flat clouds, with burnished copper-coloured clouds
behind glowing through the lace. We admired it for some few moments. Then one of us happened
to look higher. There, above the sky of the horizon, apparently suspended in mid-air half-way
to the zenith, hung like delicate bubbles the double snow-cloud peaks of Kilimanjaro. Between
them and the earth we could apparently see clear sky. It was in reality, of course, the blue-heat
haze that rarely leaves these torrid plains. I have seen many mountains in all parts of the
world, but none as fantastically insubstantial; as wonderfully lofty; as gracefully able to
yield, before clouds and storms and sunrise glows, all the space in infinity they could possibly
use, and yet to tower above them serene in an upper space of its own. Nearly every morning
of our journey to come we enjoyed this wonderful vision for an hour or so. Then the mists closed
in. The rest of the day showed us a grayish sky along the western horizon, with apparently
nothing behind it.

In the meantime we were tramping steadily ahead over the desert; threading the thorn scrub,
crossing the wide shallow grass-grown swales; spying about us for signs of game. At the end
of three or four miles we came across some ostrich and four hartebeeste. This encouraged us
to think we might find other game soon, for the hartebeeste is a gregarious animal. Suddenly
we saw a medium-sized squat beast that none of us recognized, trundling along like a badger
sixty yards ahead. Any creature not easily identified is a scientific possibility in Africa.
Therefore we fired at once. One of the bullets hit his foreleg paw. Immediately this astonishing
small creature turned and charged us! If his size had equalled his ferocity, he would have
been a formidable opponent. We had a lively few minutes. He rushed us again and again, uttering
ferocious growls. We had to step high and lively to keep out of his way. Between charges he
sat down and tore savagely at his wounded paw. We wanted him as nearly perfect a specimen as
possible, so tried to rap him over the head with a club. Owing to remarkably long teeth and
claws, this was soon proved impracticable; so we shot him. He weighed about fifty pounds, and
we subsequently learned that he was a honey badger, an animal very rarely captured.

We left the boys to take the whole skin and skull of this beast, and strolled forward slowly.
The brush ended abruptly in a wide valley. It had been burnt over, and the new grass was coming
up green. We gave one look, and sank back into cover.

The sparse game of the immediate vicinity had gathered to this fresh feed. A herd of hartebeeste
and gazelle were grazing, and five giraffe adorned the sky-line. But what interested us especially
was a group of about fifty cob-built animals with the unmistakable rapier horns of the oryx.
We recognized them as the rarity we desired.

The conditions were most unfavourable. The cover nearest them gave a range of three hundred
yards, and even this would bring them directly between us and the rising sun. There was no
help for it, however. We made our way to the bushes nearest the herd, and I tried to align
the blurs that represented my sights. At the shot, ineffective, they raced to the right across
our front. We lay low. As they had seen nothing they wheeled and stopped after two hundred
yards of flight. This shift had brought the light into better position. Once more I could define
my sights. From the sitting position I took careful aim at the largest buck. He staggered twenty
feet and fell dead. The distance was just 381 paces. This shot was indeed fortunate, for we
saw no more fringe-eared oryx.

XXVII.

ACROSS THE SERENGETTI.

We arrived in camp about noon, almost exhausted with the fierce heat and a six hours' tramp,
to find our German friend awaiting us. By an irony of fate the drums of water he had brought
back with him were now unnecessary; we had our oryx. However, we wearily gave him lunch and
listened to his prattle, and finally sped him on his way, hoping never to see him again.

About three o'clock our men came in. We doled out water rations, and told them to rest in preparation
for the morrow.

Late that night we were awakened by a creaking and snorting and the flash of torches passing.
We looked out, to see a donkey transport toiling slowly along, travelling thus at night to
avoid the terrific day heats. The two-wheeled carts with their wild and savage drivers looked
very picturesque in the flickering lights. We envied them vaguely their defined route that
permitted night travel, and sank to sleep.

In the morning, however, we found they had left with us new responsibilities in the shape of
an elderly Somali, very sick, and down with the fever. This was indeed a responsibility. It
was manifestly impossible for us to remain there with him; we should all die of thirst. It
was equally impossible to take him with us, for he was quite unfit to travel under the sun.
Finally, as the best solution of a bad business, we left him five gallons of water, some food,
and some quinine, together with the advice to rest until night, and then to follow his companions
along the beaten track. What between illness and wild beasts his chances did not look very
good, but it was the best we could do for him. This incident exemplifies well the cruelty of
this singular people. They probably abandoned the old man because his groans annoyed them,
or because one of them wanted to ride in his place on the donkey cart.[12]

We struck off as early as possible through the thorn scrub on a compass bearing that we hoped
would bring us to a reported swamp at the head of the Swanee River. The Swanee River was one
of the sources of the Tsavo. Of course this was guesswork. We did not know certainly the location
of the swamp, its distance from us, nor what lay between us and it. However, we loaded all
our transportable vessels with water, and set forth.

The scrub was all alike; sometimes thinner, sometimes thicker. We marched by compass until
we had raised a conical hill above the horizon, and then we bore just to the left of that.
The surface of the ground was cut by thousands of game tracks. They were all very old, however,
made after a rain; and it was evident the game herds venture into this country only when it
contains rainwater. After two hours, however, we did see one solitary hartebeeste, whom we
greeted as an old friend in desolation. Shortly afterwards we ran across one oribi, which I
shot for our own table.

At the end of two hours we sat down. The safari of twenty men was a very miscellaneous lot,
consisting of the rag-tag-and-bobtail of the bazaars picked up in a hurry. They were soft and
weak, and they straggled badly. The last weakling--prodded along by one of our two askaris--limped
in only at the end of half an hour. Then we took a new start.

The sun was by now up and hot. The work was difficult enough at best, but the weight of the
tropics was now cast in the scale. Twice more within the next two hours we stopped to let every
one catch up. Each time this required a longer interval. In the thorn it was absolutely essential
to keep in touch with every member of the party. A man once lost would likely remain so, for
we could not afford to endanger all for the sake of one.

Time wore on until noon. Had it not been for a thin film of haze that now overspread the sky,
I think the sun would have proved too much for some of the men. Four or five straggled so very
badly that we finally left them in charge of one of our two askaris, with instructions to follow
on as fast as they could. In order to make this possible, we were at pains to leave a well-marked
trail.

After this fashion, slowly, and with growing anxiety for some of the men, we drew up on our
landmark hill. There our difficulties increased; the thorn brush thickened. Only by a series
of short zigzags, and by taking advantage of every rhino trail going in our direction, could
we make our way through it at all; while to men carrying burdens on their heads the tangle
aloft must have been fairly maddening. So slow did our progress necessarily become, and so
difficult was it to keep in touch with everybody, that F. and I finally halted for consultation.
It was decided that I should push on ahead with Memba Sasa to make certain that we were not
on the wrong line, while F. and the askaris struggled with the safari.

Therefore I took my compass bearing afresh, and plunged into the scrub. The sensation was of
hitting solid ground after a long walk through sand. We seemed fairly to shoot ahead and out
of sight. Whenever we came upon earth we marked it deeply with our heels; we broke twigs downwards,
and laid hastily-snatched bunches of grass to help the trail we were leaving for the others
to follow. This, in spite of our compass, was a very devious track. Besides, the thorn bushes
were patches of spiky aloe coming into red flower, and the spears of sisal.

After an hour's steady, swift walking the general trend of the country began to slope downwards.
This argued a watercourse between us and the hills around Kilimanjaro. There could be no doubt
that we would cut it; the only question was whether it, like so many desert watercourses, might
not prove empty. We pushed on the more rapidly. Then we caught a glimpse through a chance opening,
of the tops of trees below us. After another hour we suddenly burst from the scrub to a strip
of green grass beyond which were the great trees, the palms, and the festooned vines of a watercourse.
Two bush bucks plunged into the thicket as we approached, and fifteen or twenty mongooses sat
up as straight and stiff as so many picket pins the better to see us.

For a moment my heart sank. The low undergrowth beneath the trees apparently swept unbroken
from where we stood to the low bank opposite. It was exactly like the shallow, damp but waterless
ravines at home, filled with black berry vines. We pushed forward, however, and found ourselves
looking down on a smooth, swift flowing stream.

It was not over six feet wide, grown close with vines and grasses, but so very deep and swift
and quiet that an extraordinary volume of water passed, as through an artificial aqueduct.
Furthermore, unlike most African streams, it was crystal clear. We plunged our faces and wrists
in it, and took long, thankful draughts. It was all most grateful after the scorching desert.
The fresh trees meeting in canopy overhead were full of monkeys and bright birds; festooned
vines swung their great ropes here and there; long heavy grass carpeted underfoot.

After we had rested a few minutes we filled our empty canteens, and prepared to start back
for our companions. But while I stood there, Memba Sasa--good, faithful Memba Sasa--seized
both canteens and darted away.

"Lie down!" he shouted back at me, "I will go back."

Without protest--which would have been futile anyway--I sank down on the grass. I was very
tired. A little breeze followed the watercourse; the grass was soft; I would have given anything
for a nap. But in wild Africa a nap is not healthy; so I drowsily watched the mongooses that
had again come out of seclusion, and the monkeys, and the birds. At the end of a long time,
and close to sundown, I heard voices. A moment later F., Memba Sasa, and about three-quarters
of the men came in. We all, white and black, set to work to make camp. Then we built smudges
and fired guns in the faint hope of guiding in the stragglers. As a matter of fact we had not
the slightest faith in these expedients. Unless the men were hopelessly lost they should be
able to follow our trail. They might be almost anywhere out in that awful scrub. The only course
open to them would be to climb thorn trees for the night. Next day we would organize a formal
search for them.

In the meantime, almost dead from exhaustion, we sprawled about everywhere. The men, too dispirited
even to start their own camp-fires, sat around resting as do boxers between rounds. Then to
us came Memba Sasa, who had already that day made a double journey, and who should have been
the most tired of all.

"Bwana," said he, "if you will lend me Winchi,[13] and a lantern, I will bring in the men."

We lent him his requirements, and he departed. Hours later he returned, carefully leaned "Winchi"
in the corner of the tent, deposited the lantern, and stood erect at attention.

"Well, Memba Sasa," I inquired.

"The men are here."

"They were far?"

"Very far."

"Verna, Memba Sasa, assanti sana."[14]

That was his sole--and sufficient--reward.

FOOTNOTES:

[12] I have just heard that this old man survived, and has been singing our praises in Nairobi
as the saviour of his life.

[13] His name for the.405 Winchester.

[14] "Very good, Memba Sasa, thanks very much."

XXVIII.

DOWN THE RIVER.

Relieved now of all anxiety as to water, we had merely to make our way downstream. First, however,
there remained the interesting task of determining its source.

Accordingly next day we and our gunbearers left the boys to a well-earned rest, and set out
upstream. At first we followed the edge of the river jungle, tramping over hard hot earth,
winding in and out of growths of thorn scrub and brilliant aloes. We saw a herd of impallas
gliding like phantoms; and as we stood in need of meat, I shot at one of them but missed. The
air was very hot and moist. At five o'clock in the morning the thermometer had stood at 78
degrees; and by noon it had mounted to 106 degrees. In addition the atmosphere was filled with
the humidity that later in the day was to break in extraordinary deluges. We moved slowly,
but even then our garments were literally dripping wet.

At the end of three miles the stream bed widened. We came upon beautiful, spacious, open lawns
of from eighty to one hundred acres apiece, separated from each other by narrow strips of tall
forest trees. The grass was high, and waved in the breeze like planted grain; the boundary
trees resembled artificial wind-breaks of eucalyptus or Normandy poplar. One might expect a
white ranch house beyond some low clump of trees, and chicken runs, and corrals.

Along these apparent boundaries of forest trees our stream divided, and divided again, so that
we were actually looking upon what we had come to seek--the source of the Swanee branch of
the Tsavo River. In these peaceful, protected meadows was it cradled. From them it sprang full
size out into the African wilderness.

A fine impalla buck grazed in one of these fields. I crept as near him as I could behind one
of the wind-break rows of trees. It was not very near, and for the second time I missed. Thereupon
we decided two things: that we were not really meat hungry, and that yesterday's hard work
was not conducive to to-day's good shooting.

Having thus accomplished the second object of our expedition, we returned to camp. From that
time begins a regular sequence of events on which I look back with the keenest of pleasure.
The two constant factors were the river and the great dry country on either side. Day after
day we followed down the one, and we made brief excursions out into the other. Each night we
camped near the sound of the swift running water, where the winds rustled in the palms, the
acacias made lacework across the skies, and the jungle crouched in velvet blackness close to
earth like a beast.

Our life in its routine was regular; in its details bizarre and full of the unexpected. Every
morning we arose an hour before day, and ate by lantern light and the gleam of fires. At the
first gray we were afoot and on the march. F. and I, with our gunbearers, then pushed ahead
down the river, leaving the men to come along as fast or as slowly as they pleased. After about
six hours or so of marching, we picked out a good camp site, and lay down to await the safari.
By two o'clock in the afternoon camp was made. Also it was very hot. After a light lunch we
stripped to the skin, lay on our cots underneath the mosquito canopies, and tried to doze or
read. The heat at this time of day was blighting. About four o'clock, if we happened to be
inspired by energy, one or the other of us strolled out at right angles to the stream to see
what we could see. The evening was tepid and beautiful. Bathed and pyjama-clad we lolled in
our canvas chairs, smoking, chatting or listening to the innumerable voices of the night.

Such was the simple and almost invariable routine of our days. But enriching it, varying it,
disguising it even--as rain-squalls, sunshine cloud shadow, and unexpected winds modify the
landscape so well known from a study window--were the incredible incidents and petty adventures
of African travel.

The topography of the river itself might be divided very roughly into three: the headwater
country down to its junction with the Tsavo the palm-elephant-grass stretch, and the gorge
and hill district just before it crosses the rail road.

The headwater country is most beautiful The stream is not over ten feet wide, but very deep,
swift, and clear. It flows between defined banks and is set in a narrow strip of jungle. In
places the bed widens out to a carpet of the greenest green grass sown with flowers; at other
places it offers either mysterious thickets, spacious cathedrals, or snug bowers. Immediately
beyond the edge of this river jungle begins the thorn scrub, more or less dense. Distant single
mountains or buttes serve as landmarks in a brush-grown, gently rising, strongly rolling country.
Occasional alluvial flats draw back to low cliffs not over twenty feet high.

After the junction of the Tsavo, palms of various sorts replace to a large extent the forest
trees. Naturally also the stream widens and flows more slowly. Outside the palms grow tall
elephant-grass and bush. Our marching had generally to be done in the narrow, neutral space
between these two growths. It was pleasant enough, with the river snatching at the trailing
branches, and the birds and animals rustling away. Beyond the elephant-grass flats low ridges
ran down to the river, varying in width, but carrying always with them the dense thorn. Between
them ran recesses, sometimes three or four hundred acres in extent, high with elephant-grass
or little trees like alders. So much for the immediate prospect on our right as we marched.
Across the river to our left were huge riven mountains, with great cliffs and cañons. As we
followed necessarily every twist and turn of the river, sometimes these mountains were directly
ahead of us, then magically behind, so that we thought we had passed them by. But the next
hour threw them again across our trail. The ideal path would, of course, have cut across all
the bends and ridges; but the thorn of the ridges and the elephant-grass of the flats forbade
it. So we marched ten miles to gain four.

After days of struggle and deception we passed those mountains. Then we entered a new type
of country where the Tsavo ran in cañons between hills. The high cliffs often towered far above
us; we had to pick our way along narrow river ledges; again the river ran like a trout stream
over riffles and rapids, while we sauntered along cleared banks beneath the trees. Had we not
been making a forced march under terrific heat at just that time, this last phase of the river
might have been the pleasantest of all.

Throughout the whole course of our journey the rhinoceros was the most abundant of the larger
animals. The indications of old tracks proved that at some time of the year, or under some
different conditions, great herds of the more gregarious plains antelope and zebra visited
the river, but at the time of our visit they were absent. The rhinoceroses, however, in incredible
numbers came regularly to water. Paradoxically, we saw very few of them, and enjoyed comparative
immunity from their charges. This was due to the fact that their habits and ours swung in different
orbits. The rhinoceros, after drinking, took to the hot, dry thorn scrub in the low hills;
and as he drank at night, we rarely encountered him in the river bottoms where we were marching.
This was very lucky, for the cover was so dense that a meeting must necessarily be at close
quarters. Indeed these large and truculent beasts were rather a help than a hindrance, for
we often made use of their wide, clear paths to penetrate some particularly distressing jungle.
However, we had several small adventures with them: just enough to keep us alert in rounding
corners or approaching bushes--and nine-tenths of our travel was bushes and corners. The big,
flat footsteps, absolutely fresh in the dust, padded methodically ahead of us down the only
way until it seemed that we could not fail to plump upon their maker around the next bend.
We crept forward foot by foot, every sense alert, finger on trigger. Then after a time the
spoor turned off to the right, towards the hills. We straightened our backs and breathed a
sigh of relief. This happened over and over again. At certain times of year also elephants
frequent the banks of the Tsavo in considerable numbers We saw many old signs, and once came
upon the fresh path of a small herd. The great beasts had passed by that very morning. We gazed
with considerable awe on limbs snatched bodily from trees; on flat-topped acacias a foot in
diameter pulled up by the roots and stood up side down; on tree trunks twisted like ropes.

Of the game by far the most abundant were the beautiful red impalla. We caught glimpses of
their graceful bodies gliding in and out of sight through the bushes; or came upon them standing
in small openings, their delicate ears pointed to us. They and the tiny dikdik furnished our
table; and an occasional water-buck satisfied the men. One day we came on one of the latter
beasts sound asleep in a tiny open space. He was lying down, and his nose rested against the
earth just like a very old family horse in a paddock.

Besides these common species were bush-buck wart-hog, lesser kudu, giraffe, and leopard. The
bush-buck we jumped occasionally quite near at hand. They ducked their heads low and rushed
tearingly to the next cover. The leopard was heard sighing every night, and saw their pad marks
next day; but only twice did we catch glimpses of them. One morning we came upon the fresh-killed
carcass of a female lesser kudu from which, evidently, we had driven the slayer.

These few species practically completed the game list. They were sufficient for our needs;
and the lesser kudu was a prize much desired for our collection. But by far the most interesting
to me were the smaller animals, the birds, and the strange, innumerable insects.

We saw no natives in the whole course of our journey.

The valley of the river harboured many monkeys. They seemed to be of two species, blue and
brown, but were equally noisy and amusing. They retired ahead of our advance with many remarks,
or slipped past us to the rear without any comments whatever. When we made camp they retired
with indignant protests, and when we had quite settled down they returned as near as they dared.

One very hot afternoon I lay on my canvas cot in the open, staring straight upward into the
overarching greenery of the trees. This is a very pleasant thing to do. The beautiful up-spreading,
outstretching of the tree branches and twigs intrigue the eye; the leaves make fascinating,
hypnotically waving patterns against a very blue sky; and in the chambers and galleries of
the upper world the birds and insects carry on varied businesses of their own. After a time
the corner of my eye caught a quick movement far to the left and in a shadow. At once I turned
my attention that way. After minute scrutiny I at length made out a monkey. Evidently considering
himself quite unobserved, he was slowly and with great care stalking our camp. Inch by inch
he moved, taking skilful advantage of every bit of cover, flattening himself along the limbs,
hunching himself up behind bunches of leaves, until he had gained a big limb directly overhead.
There he stretched flat, staring down at the scene that had so strongly aroused his curiosity.
I lay there for over two hours reading and dozing. My friend aloft never stirred. When dusk
fell he was still there. Some time after dark he must have regained his band, for in the morning
the limb was vacant.

Now comes the part of this story that really needs a witness, not to veracity perhaps, but
to accuracy of observations. Fortunately I have F. About noon next day the monkey returned
to his point of observation. He used the same precautions as to concealment; he followed his
route of the day before; he proceeded directly to his old conning tower on the big limb. It
did not take him quite so long to get there, for he had already scouted out the trail. And
close at his heels followed two other monkeys! They crawled where he crawled; they crouched
where he crouched; they hid where he hid; they flattened themselves out by him on the big limb,
and all three of them passed the afternoon gazing down on the strange and fascinating things
below. Whether these newcomers were part of the first one's family out for a treat, or whether
they were Cook's Tourists of the Jungle in charge of my friend's competence as a guide, I do
not know.

Farther down the river F. and I stopped for some time to watch the crossing of forty-odd of
the little blue monkeys. The whole band clambered to near the top of a tall tree growing by
the water's edge. There, one by one, they ran out on a straight overhanging limb and cast themselves
into space. On the opposite bank of the river, and leaning well out, grew a small springy bush.
Each monkey landed smash in the middle of this, clasped it with all four hands, swayed alarmingly,
recovered, and scampered ashore. It was rather a nice problem in ballistics this, for a mistake
in calculation of a foot in distance or a pound in push would land Mr. Monkey in the water.
And the joke of it was that directly beneath that bush lay two hungry-looking crocodiles! As
each tiny body hurtled through the air I'll swear a look of hope came into the eyes of those
crocs. We watched until the last had made his leap. There were no mistakes. The joke was against
the crocodiles.

We encountered quite a number of dog-faced baboons. These big apes always retreated very slowly
and noisily. Scouts in the rearguard were continually ascending small trees or bushes for a
better look at us, then leaping down to make disparaging remarks. One lot seemed to show such
variation in colour from the usual that we shot one. The distance was about two hundred and
fifty yards. Immediately the whole band--a hundred or so strong--dropped on all fours and started
in our direction. This was rather terrifying. However, as we stood firm, they slowly came to
a halt at about seventy yards, barked and chattered for a moment, then hopped away to right
and left.

XXIX.

THE LESSER KUDU.

About eight o'clock, the evening of our first day on the Swanee, the heat broke in a tropical
downpour. We heard it coming from a long distance, like the roar of a great wind. The velvet
blackness, star hung, was troubled by an invisible blurring mist, evidenced only through a
subtle effect on the subconsciousness. Every leaf above us, in the circle of our firelight,
depended absolutely motionless from its stem. The insects had ceased their shrilling; the night
birds their chirping; the animals, great and small, their callings or their stealthy rustling
to and fro. Of the world of sound there remained only the crackling of our fires, the tiny
singing of the blood in our ears, and that far-off portentous roar. Our simple dispositions
were made. Trenches had been dug around the tents; the pegs had been driven well home; our
stores had been put in shelter. We waited silently, puffing away our pipes.

The roaring increased in volume. Beneath it we began to hear the long, rolling crash of thunder.
Overhead the stars, already dimmed, were suddenly blotted from existence. Then came the rain,
in a literal deluge, as though the god of floods had turned over an entire reservoir with one
twist of his mighty hand. Our fire went out instantly; the whole world went out with it. We
lay on our canvas cots unable to see a foot beyond our tent opening; unable to hear anything
but the insistent, terrible drumming over our heads; unable to think of anything through the
tumult of waters. As a man's body might struggle from behind a waterfall through the torrents,
so our imaginations, half drowned, managed dimly to picture forth little bits--the men huddled
close in their tiny tents, their cowled blankets over their heads. All the rest of the universe
had gone.

After a time the insistent beat and rush of waters began to wear through our patience. We willed
that this wracking tumult should cease; we willed it with all the force that was in us. Then,
as this proved vain, we too humped our spiritual backs, cowled our souls with patience, and
waited dumbly for the force of the storm to spend itself. Our faculties were quite as effectually
drowned out by the unceasing roar and crash of the waters as our bodily comfort would have
been had we lacked the protection of our tent.

Abruptly the storm passed. It did not die away slowly in the diminuendo of ordinary storms.
It ceased as though the reservoir had been tipped back again. The rapid drip, drip, drip of
waters now made the whole of sound; all the rest of the world lay breathless. Then, inside
our tent, a cricket struck up bravely.

This homely, cheerful little sound roused us. We went forth to count damages and to put our
house in order. The men hunted out dry wood and made another fire; the creatures of the jungle
and the stars above them ventured forth.

Next morning we marched into a world swept clean. The ground was as smooth as though a new
broom had gone over it. Every track now was fresh, and meant an animal near at hand. The bushes
and grasses were hung with jewels. Merry little showers shook down from trees sharing a joke
with some tiny wind. White steam rose from a moist, fertile-looking soil. The smell of greenhouses
was in the air. Looking back, we were stricken motionless by the sight of Kilimanjaro, its
twin peaks suspended a clean blue sky, fresh snow mantling its shoulders.

This day, so cheeringly opened, was destined to fulfil its promise. In the dense scrub dwell
a shy and rare animal called the lesser kudu specimens of which we greatly desired. The beast
keeps to the thickest and driest cove where it is impossible to see fifty yards ahead but where
the slightest movement breaks the numberless dry interlacements of which the place seems made.
To move really quietly one could not cover over a half-mile in an hour. As the countryside
extends a thousand square miles or more, and the lesser kudu is rare, it can be seen that hunting
them might have to be a slow and painful process. We had twice seen the peculiar tracks.

On this morning, however, we caught a glimpse of the beast itself. A flash of gray, with an
impression of the characteristic harness-like stripes--that was all. The trail, in the ground,
was of course very plain. I left the others and followed it into the brush. As usual the thorn
scrub was so thick that I had to stoop and twist to get through it at all, and so brittle that
the least false move made a crackling like a fire. The rain of the night before had, however,
softened the débris lying on the ground. I moved forward as quickly as I could, half suffocated
in the steaming heat of the dense thicket. After three or four hundred yards the beast fell
into a walk, so I immediately halted. I reasoned that after a few steps at this gait he would
look back to see whether or not he was followed. If his scouting showed him nothing he might
throw off suspicion. After ten minutes I crept forward again. The spoor showed my surmises
to be correct, for I came to where the animal had turned, behind a small bush, and had stood
for a few minutes. Taking up the tracks from this point, I was delighted to find that the kudu
had forgotten its fear, and was browsing. At the end of five minutes more of very careful work,
I was fortunate enough to see it, feeding from the top of a small bush thirty-five yards away.
The raking shot from the Springfield dropped it in its tracks.

It proved to be a doe, a great prize of course, but not to be compared with the male. We skinned
her carefully, and moved on, delighted to have the species.

Our luck was not over, however. At the end of six hours we picked our camp in a pretty grove
by the swift-running stream. There we sat down to await the safari. The tree-tops were full
of both the brown and blue monkeys, baboons barked at us from a distance, the air was musical
with many sweet birds. Big thunder-clouds were gathering around the horizon.

The safari came in. Mohammed immediately sought us out to report, in great excitement, that
he had seen five kudu across the stream. He claimed to have watched them even after the safari
had passed, and that they had not been alarmed. The chance was slight that the kudu could be
found, but still it was a chance. Accordingly we rather reluctantly gave up our plans for a
loaf and a nap. Mohammed said the place was an hour back; we had had six hours march already.
However, about two o'clock we set out. Before we had arrived quite at the spot we caught a
glimpse of the five kudu as they dashed across a tiny opening ahead of us. They had moved downstream
and crossed the river.

It seemed rather hopeless to follow them into that thick country once they had been alarmed,
but the prize was great. Therefore Memba Sasa and I took up the trail. We crept forward a mile,
very quiet, very tense--very sweaty. Then simultaneously, through a chance opening and a long
distance away, we caught a patch of gray with a single transverse white stripe. There was no
chance to ascertain the sex of the beast, nor what part of its anatomy was thus exposed. I
took a bull's eye chance on that patch of gray; had the luck to hit it in the middle. The animal
went down. Memba Sasa leapt forward like a madman; I could not begin to keep pace with him.
When I had struggled through the thorn, I found him dancing with delight.

"Monuome, bwana! buck, master!" he cried as soon as he saw me, and made a spiral gesture in
imitation of the male's beautiful corkscrew horns.

While the men prepared the trophy, F. and I followed on after the other four to see what they
would do, and speedily came to the conclusion that we were lucky to land two of the wily beasts.
The four ran compactly together and in a wide curve for several hundred yards. Then two faced
directly back, while the other two, one on either side, made a short detour out and back to
guard the flanks.

We did not get back to camp until after dark. A tremendous pair of electric storms were volleying
and roaring at each other across the space of night; leopards were crying; a pack of wild dogs
were barking vociferously. The camp, as we approached it, was a globe of light in a bower of
darkness. The fire, shining and flickering on the under sides of the leaves, lent them a strangely
unreal stage-like appearance; the porters, their half-naked bodies and red blankets catching
the blaze, roasted huge chunks of meat over little fires.

We ate a belated supper in comfort, peace, and satisfaction. Then the storms joined forces
and fell upon us.

XXX.

ADVENTURES BY THE WAY.

We journeyed slowly on down the stream. Interesting things happened to us. The impressions
of that journey are of two sorts: the little isolated details and the general background of
our day's routine, with the gray dawn, the great heats of the day, the blessed evening and
its fireflies; the thundering of heaven's artillery, and the downpour of torrents; the hot,
high, crackling thorn scrub into which we made excursions; the swift-flowing river with its
palms and jungles; outleaning palms trailing their fronds just within the snatch of the flood
waters; wide flats in the embrace of the river bends, or extending into the low hills, grown
thick with lush green and threaded with rhinoceros paths; the huge sheer cliff mountains over
the way; distant single hills far down. The mild discomfort of the start before daylight clearly
revealed the thorns and stumbling blocks; the buoyant cheerfulness of the first part of the
day, with the grouse rocketing straight up out of the elephant grass, the birds singing everywhere,
and the beasts of the jungle still a-graze at the edges; the growing weight of the sun, as
though a great pressing hand were laid upon the shoulders; the suffocating, gasping heat of
afternoon, and the; gathering piling black and white clouds; the cool evening in pyjamas with
the fireflies flickering; among the bushes, the river singing, and little; breezes wandering
like pattering raindrops in the dry palm leaves--all these, by repetition of main elements,
blend in my memory to form a single image. To be sure each day the rock pinnacles over the
way changed slightly their compass bearings, and little variations of contour lent variety
to the procession of days. But in essentials they were of one kin.

But here and there certain individual scenes and incidents stand out clearly and alone. Without
reference to my notebook I could not tell you their chronological order, nor the days of their
happening. They occurred, without correlation.

Thus one afternoon at the loafing hour, when F. was sound asleep under his mosquito bar, and
I in my canvas chair was trying to catch the breeze from an approaching deluge, to me came
a total stranger in a large turban. He was without arms or baggage of any sort, an alien in
a strange and savage country.

"Jambo, bwana m'kubwa (greeting, great master)!" said he.

"Jambo," said I, as though his existence were not in the least surprising, and went on reading.
This showed him that I was indeed a great master.

After a suitable interval I looked up.

"Wataka neenee (what do you want)?" I demanded.

"Nataka sema qua heri (I want to say good-bye)," said this astonishing individual.

I had, until that moment, been quite unaware of his existence. As he had therefore not yet
said "How do you do," I failed to fathom his reasons for wanting to say "good-bye." However,
far be it from me to deny any one innocent pleasure, so I gravely bade him good-bye, and he
disappeared into the howling wilderness whence he had come.

       *       *       *       *       *

One afternoon we came upon two lemurs seated gravely side by side on a horizontal limb ten
feet up a thorn tree. They contemplated us with the preternatural gravity of very young children,
and without the slightest sign of fear. We coveted them as pets for Billy, but soon discovered
that their apparent tameness was grounded on good, solid common sense. The thorns of that thorn
tree! We left them sitting upright, side by side.

A little farther on, and up a dry earthy hillside, a medium-sized beast leapt from an eroded
place fairly under my feet and made off with a singularly familiar kiyi. It was a strange-looking
animal, apparently brick red in colour. When I had collected myself I saw it was a wild dog.
It had been asleep in a warm hollow of red clay, and had not awakened until I was fairly upon
it. We had heard these beasts nearly every night, but this was the first we had seen. Some
days later we came upon the entire pack drinking at the river. They leapt suddenly across our
front eighty yards away, their heads all turned towards us truculently, barking at us like
so many watch dogs. They made off, but not as though particularly alarmed.

       *       *       *       *       *

One afternoon I had wounded a good wart-hog across the river, and had gone downstream to find
a dry way over. F., more enthusiastic, had plunged in and promptly attacked the wart-hog. He
was armed with the English service revolver shooting the.455 Ely cartridge. It is a very short,
stubby bit of ammunition. I had often cast doubt on its driving power as compared to the.45
Colt, for example. F., as a loyal Englishman, had, of course, defended his army's weapon. When
I reached the centre of disturbance I found that F. had emptied his revolver three times--eighteen
shots--into the head and forequarters of that wart-hog without much effect. Incidentally the
wart-hog had given him a good lively time, charging again and again. The weapon has not nearly
the shock power of even our.38 service--a cartridge classified as too light for serious business.

       *       *       *       *       *

One afternoon I gave my shotgun to one of the porters to carry afield, remarking facetiously
to all and sundry that he looked like a gunbearer. After twenty minutes we ran across a rhinoceros.
I spent some time trying to manoeuvre into position for a photograph of the beast. However,
the attempt failed. We managed to dodge his rush. Then, after the excitement had died, we discovered
the porter and the shotgun up a tree. He descended rather shamefaced. Nobody said anything
about it. A half-hour later we came upon another rhinoceros. The beast was visible at some
distance, and downhill. Nevertheless the porter moved a little nearer a tree. This was too
much for Memba Sasa. All the rest of the afternoon he "ragged" that porter in much the same
terms we would have employed in the same circumstances.

"That place ahead," said he, "looks like a good place for rhinoceros. Perhaps you'd better
climb a tree."

"There is a dikdik; a bush is big enough to climb for him."

"Are you afraid of jackals, too?"

       *       *       *       *       *

The fireflies were our regular evening companions. We caught one or two of them for the pleasure
of watching them alternately igniting and extinguishing their little lamps. Even when we put
them in a bottle they still kept up their performance bravely.

But besides them we had an immense variety of evening visitors. Beetles of the most inconceivable
shapes and colours, all sorts of moths, and numberless strange things--leaf insects, walking-stick
insects (exactly like dry twigs), and the fierce, tall, praying mantis with their mock air
of meekness and devotion. Let one of the other insects stray within reach and their piety was
quickly enough abandoned! One beetle about three-eighths of an inch across was oblong in shape
and of pure glittering gold. His wing covers, on the other hand, were round and transparent.
The effect was of a jewel under a tiny glass case. Other beetles were of red dotted with black,
or of black dotted with red; they sported stripes, or circles of plain colours; they wore long,
slender antennae, or short knobby horns; they carried rapiers or pinchers, long legs or short.
In fact they ran the gamut of grace and horror, so that an inebriate would find here a great
rest for the imagination.

After we had gone to bed we noticed more pleasantly our cricket. He piped up, you may remember,
the night of the first great storm. That evening he took up his abode in some fold or seam
of our tent, and there stayed throughout all the rest of the journey. Every evening he tuned
up cheerfully, and we dropped to sleep to the sound of his homelike piping. We grew very fond
of him, as one does of everything in this wild and changing country that can represent a stable
point of habitude.

Nor must I forget one evening when all of a sudden out of the darkness came a tremendous hollow
booming, like the beating of war drums or the bellowing of some strange great beast. At length
we identified the performer as an unfamiliar kind of frog!

XXXI.

THE LOST SAFARI.

We were possessed of a map of sorts, consisting mostly of wide blank spaces, with an occasional
tentative mountain, or the probable course of streams marked thereon. The only landmark that
interested us was a single round peak situated south of our river and at a point just before
we should cross the railroad at Tsavo Station. There came a day when, from the top of a hill
where we had climbed for the sake of the outlook, we thought we recognized that peak. It was
about five miles away as the crow flies.

Then we returned to camp and made the fatal mistake of starting to figure. We ought to cover
the distance, even with the inevitable twists and turns, in a day; the tri-weekly train passed
through Tsavo the following night; if we could catch that we would save a two days' wait for
the next train. You follow the thought. We arose very early the next morning to get a good
start on our forced march.

There is no use in spinning out a sad tale. We passed what we thought must be our landmark
hill just eleven times. The map showed only one butte; as a matter of fact there were dozens.
At each disappointment we had to reconstruct our theories. It is the nature of man to do this
hopefully--Tsavo Station must be just around the next bend. We marched six hours without pause;
then began to save ourselves a little. By all the gods of logical reasoning we proved Tsavo
just beyond a certain fringe of woods. When we arrived we found that there the river broke
through a range of hills by way of a deep gorge. It was a change from the everlasting scrub,
with its tumbling waters, its awful cliffs, its luxuriant tropical growths; but it was so much
the more difficult to make our way through. Beyond the gorge we found any amount of hills,
kopjes, buttes, sugar loaves, etc., each isolated from its fellows, each perfectly competent
to serve as the map's single landmark.

We should have camped, but we were very anxious to catch that train; and we were convinced
that now, after all that work, Tsavo could not be far away. It would be ridiculous and mortifying
to find we had camped almost within sight of our destination!

The heat was very bad and the force of the sun terrific. It seemed to possess actual physical
weight, and to press us down from above. We filled our canteens many times at the swift-running
stream, and emptied them as often. By two o'clock F. was getting a little wobbly from the sun.
We talked of stopping, when an unexpected thunder shower rolled out from behind the mountains,
and speedily overcast the entire heavens. This shadow relieved the stress. F., much revived,
insisted that we proceed. So we marched and passed many more hills.

In the meantime it began to rain, after the whole-hearted tropical fashion. In two minutes
we were drenched to the skin. I kept my matches and notebook dry by placing them in the crown
of my cork helmet. After the intense heat this tepid downpour seemed to us delicious.

And then, quite unexpectedly, of course, we came around a bend to make out through the sheets
of rain the steel girders of the famous Tsavo bridge.[15]

We clambered up a steep, slippery bank to the right-of-way, along which we proceeded half a
mile to the station. This consisted of two or three native huts, a house for the East Indian
in charge, and the station building itself. The latter was a small frame structure with a narrow
floorless veranda. There was no platform. Drawing close on all sides was the interminable thorn
scrub. Later, when the veil of rain had been drawn aside, we found that Tsavo, perched on a
hillside, looked abroad over a wide prospect. For the moment all we saw was a dark, dismal,
dripping station, wherein was no sign of life.

We were beginning to get chilly, and we wanted very much some tea, fire, a chance to dry, pending
the arrival of our safari. We jerked open the door and peered into the inky interior.

"Babu!" yelled F., "Babu!"

From an inner back room came the faint answer in most precise English,--

"I can-not come; I am pray-ing."

There followed the sharp, quick tinkle of a little bell--the Indian manner of calling upon
the Lord's attention.

We both knew better than to hustle the institutions of the East; so we waited with what patience
we had, listening to the intermittent tinkling of the little bell. At the end of fully fifteen
minutes the devotee appeared. He proved to be a mild, deprecating little man, very eager to
help, but without resources. He was a Hindu, and lived mainly on tea and rice. The rice was
all out, but he expected more on the night train. There was no trading store here. He was the
only inhabitant. After a few more answers he disappeared, to return carrying two pieces of
letter paper on which were tea and a little coarse native sugar. These, with a half-dozen very
small potatoes, were all he had to offer.

It did not look very encouraging. We had absolutely nothing in which to boil water. Of course
we could not borrow of our host; caste stood in the way there. If we were even to touch one
of his utensils, that utensil was for him defiled for ever. Nevertheless, as we had eaten nothing
since four o'clock that morning, and had put a hard day's work behind us, we made an effort.
After a short search we captured a savage possessed of a surfuria, or native cooking pot. Memba
Sasa scrubbed this with sand. First we made tea in it, and drank turn about, from its wide
edge. This warmed us up somewhat. Then we dumped in our few potatoes and a single guinea fowl
that F. had decapitated earlier in the day. We ate; and passed the pot over to Memba Sasa.

So far, so good; but we were still very wet, and the uncomfortable thought would obtrude itself
that the safari might not get in that day. It behoved us at least to dry what we had on. I
hunted up Memba Sasa, whom I found in a native hut. A fire blazed in the middle of the floor.
I stooped low to enter, and squatted on my heels with the natives. Slowly I steamed off the
surface moisture. We had rather a good time chatting and laughing. After a while I looked out.
It had stopped raining. Therefore I emerged and set some of the men collecting firewood. Shortly
I had a fine little blaze going under the veranda roof of the station. F. and I hung out our
breeches to dry, and spread the tails of our shirts over the heat. F. was actually the human
chimney, for the smoke was pouring in clouds from the breast and collar of his shirt. We were
fine figures for the public platform of a railway station!

We had just about dried off and had reassumed our thin and scanty garments, when the babu emerged.
We stared in drop-jawed astonishment. He had muffled his head and mouth in a most brilliant
scarf, as if for zero weather; although dressed otherwise in the usual pongee. Under one arm
he carried a folded clumsy cotton umbrella; around his waist he had belted a huge knife; in
his other hand he carried his battle-axe. I mean just that--his battle-axe. We had seen such
things on tapestries or in museums, but did not dream that they still existed out of captivity.
This was an Oriental looking battle-axe with a handle three feet long, a spike on top, a spike
out behind, and a half-moon blade in front. The babu had with a little of his signal paint
done the whole thing, blade and all, to a brilliant window-shutter green.

As soon as we had recovered our breath, we asked him very politely the reason for these stupendous
preparations. It seemed that it was his habit to take a daily stroll just before sunset, "for
the sake of the health," as he told us in his accurate English.

"The bush is full of bad men," he explained, "who would like to kill me; but when they see
this axe and this knife they say to each other, 'There walks a very bad man. We dare not kill
him.'"

He marched very solemnly a quarter-mile up the track and back, always in plain view. Promptly
on his return he dived into his little back room where the periodic tinkling of his praying
bell for some time marked his gratitude for having escaped the "bad men."

The bell ceased. Several times he came to the door, eyed us timidly, and bolted back into the
darkness. Finally he approached to within ten feet, twisted his hands and giggled in a most
deprecating fashion.

"What is the use of this killing game?" he gabbled as rapidly as he could. "Man should not
destroy what man cannot first create." After which he giggled again and fled.

His conscience, evidently, had driven him to this defiance of our high mightinesses against
his sense of politeness and his fears.

About this time my boy Mohammed and the cook drifted in. They reported that they had left the
safari not far back. Our hopes of supper and blankets rose. They declined, however, with the
gathering darkness, and were replaced by wrath against the faithless ones. Memba Sasa, in spite
of his long day, took a gun and disappeared in the darkness. He did not get back until nine
o'clock, when he suddenly appeared in the doorway to lean the gun in the corner, and to announce,
"Hapana safari."

We stretched ourselves on a bench and a table--the floor was impossible--and took what sleep
we could. In the small hours the train thundered through, the train we had hoped to catch!

FOOTNOTES:

[15] This is the point at which construction was stopped by man-eating lions. See Patterson's
"The Man-eaters of Tsavo."

XXXII.

THE BABU.

We stretched ourselves stiffly in the first gray of dawn, wondering where we could get a mouthful
of breakfast. On emerging from the station a strange and gladsome sight met our eyes--namely,
chop boxes and gun cases belonging to some sportsman not yet arrived. Necessity knows no law;
so we promptly helped ourselves to food and gun-cleaning implements. Much refreshed, we lit
our pipes and settled ourselves to wait for our delinquents.

Shortly after sunrise an Indian track inspector trundled in on a handcar propelled by two natives.
He was a suave and corpulent person with a very large umbrella and beautiful silken garments.
The natives upset the handcar off the track, and the newcomer settled himself for an enjoyable
morning. He and the babu discussed ethics and metaphysical philosophy for three solid hours.
Evidently they came from different parts of India, and their only common language was English.
Through the thin partition in the station building we could hear plainly every word. It was
very interesting. Especially did we chortle with delight when the inspector began one of his
arguments somewhat as follows:--

"Now the two English who are here. They possess great sums of wealth"--F. nudged me delightedly--"and
they have weapons to kill, and much with which to do things, yet their savage minds--"

It was plain, rank, eavesdropping, but most illuminating, thus to get at first hand the Eastern
point of view as to ourselves; to hear the bloodless, gentle shell of Indian philosophy described
by believers. They discussed the most minute and impractical points, and involved themselves
in the most uncompromising dilemmas.

Thus the gist of one argument was as follows: "All sexual intercourse is sin, but the race
must go forward by means of sexual intercourse; therefore the race is conceived in sin and
is sinful; but it is a great sin for me, as an individual, not to carry forward the race, since
the Divine Will decrees that in some way the race is necessary to it. Therefore it would seem
that man is in sin whichever way you look at it--"

"But," interposes the inspector firmly but politely, "is it not possible that sexual sin and
the sin of opposing Divine Will may be of balance in the spirit, so that in resisting one sort
a man acquires virtue to commit the other without harm--" And so on for hours.

At twelve-thirty the safari drifted in. Consider that fact and what it meant. The plain duty
of the headman was, of course, to have seen that the men followed us in the day before. But
allowing, for the sake of argument, that this was impossible, and that the men had been forced
by the exhaustion of some of their number to stop and camp, if they had arisen betimes they
should have completed the journey in two hours at most. That should have brought them in by
half-past seven or eight o'clock. But a noon arrival condemned them without the necessity of
argument. They had camped early, had risen very, very late, and had dawdled on the road.

We ourselves gave the two responsible headmen twenty lashes apiece; then turned over to them
the job of thrashing the rest. Ten per man was the allotment. They expected the punishment;
took it gracefully. Some even thanked us when it was over! The babu disappeared in his station.

About an hour later he approached us, very deprecating, and handed us a telegram. It was from
the district commissioner at Voi ordering us to report for flogging "porters on the Tsavo Station
platform."

"I am truly sorry, I am truly sorry," the babu was murmuring at our elbows.

"What does this mean?" we demanded of him.

He produced a thick book.

"It is in here--the law," he explained. "You must not flog men on the station platform. It
was my duty to report."

"How did we know that? Why didn't you tell us?"

"If you had gone there"--he pointed ten feet away to a spot exactly like all other spots--"it
would have been off the platform. Then I had nothing to say."

We tried to become angry.

"But why in blazes couldn't you have told us of that quietly and decently? We'd have moved."

"It is the law" He tapped his thick book.

"But we cannot be supposed to know by heart every law in that book. Why didn't you warn us
before reporting?" we insisted.

"I am truly sorry," he repeated. "I hope and trust it will not prove serious. But it is in
the book."

We continued in the same purposeless fashion for a moment or so longer. Then the babu ended
the discussion thus,--

"It was my duty. I am truly sorry. Suppose I had not reported and should die to-day, and should
go to heaven, and God should ask me, 'Have you done your duty to-day?' what should I say to Him?"

We gave it up; we were up against Revealed Religion.

So that night we took a freight train southward to Voi, leaving the babu and his prayer-bell,
and his green battle-axe and his conscience alone in the wilderness. We had quite a respect
for that babu.

The district commissioner listened appreciatively to our tale.

"Of course I shall not carry the matter further," he told us, "but having known the babu, you
must see that once he had reported to me I was compelled to order you down here. I am sorry
for the inconvenience."

And when we reflected on the cataclysmic upheaval that babu would have undergone had we not
been summoned after breaking one of The Laws in the Book, we had to admit the district commissioner
was right.

PART VI.

IN MASAILAND.

XXXIII.

OVER THE LIKIPIA ESCARPMENT.

Owing to an outbreak of bubonic plague, and consequent quarantine, we had recruited our men
outside Nairobi, and had sent them, in charge of C., to a little station up the line.

Billy and I saw to the loading of our equipment on the train, and at two o'clock, in solitary
state, set forth. Our only attendants were Mohammed and Memba Sasa, who had been fumigated
and inoculated and generally Red-Crossed for the purpose.

The little narrow-gauge train doubled and twisted in its climb up the range overlooking Nairobi
and the Athi Plains. Fields of corn grew so tall as partially to conceal villages of round,
grass-thatched huts with conical roofs; we looked down into deep ravines where grew the broad-leaved
bananas; the steep hillsides had all been carefully cultivated. Savages leaning on spears watched
us puff heavily by. Women, richly ornamented with copper wire or beads, toiled along bent under
loads carried by means of a band across the top of the head.[16] Naked children rushed out
to wave at us. We were steaming quite comfortably through Africa as it had been for thousands
of years before the white man came.

At Kikuyu Station we came to a halt. Kikuyu Station ordinarily embarks about two passengers
a month, I suppose. Now it was utterly swamped with business, for on it had descended all our
safari of thirty-nine men and three mules. Thirty of the thirty-nine yelled and shrieked and
got in the wrong place, as usual. C. and the train men and the stationmaster and our responsible
boys heaved and tugged and directed, ordered, commanded. At length the human element was loaded
to its places and locked in. Then the mules had to be urged up a very narrow gang-lank into
a dangerous-looking car. Quite sensibly they declined to take chances. We persuaded them. The
process was quite simple. Two of the men holding the ends at a safe distance stretched a light
strong cord across the beasts' hind legs, and sawed it back and forth.

We clanged the doors shut, climbed aboard, and the train at last steamed on. Now bits of forest
came across our way, deep, shaded, with trailing curtain vines, and wide leaves as big as table
tops, and high, lush, impenetrable undergrowth full of flashing birds, fathomless shadows,
and inquisitive monkeys. Occasionally we emerged to the edge of a long oval meadow, set in
depressions among hills, like our Sierra meadows. Indeed so like were these openings to those
in our own wooded mountains that we always experienced a distinct shock of surprise as the
familiar woods parted to disclose a dark solemn savage with flashing spear.

We stopped at various stations, and descended and walked about in the gathering shadows of
the forest. It was getting cool. Many little things attracted our attention, to remain in our
memories as isolated pictures. Thus I remember one grave savage squatted by the track playing
on a sort of mandoline-shaped instrument. It had two strings, and he twanged these alternately,
without the slightest effort to change their pitch by stopping with his fingers. He bent his
head sidewise, and listened with the meticulous attention of a connoisseur. We stopped at that
place for fully ten minutes, but not for a second did he leave off twanging his two strings,
nor did he even momentarily relax his attention.

It was now near sundown. We had been climbing steadily. The train shrieked twice, and unexpectedly
slid out to the edge of the Likipia Escarpment. We looked down once more into the great Rift
Valley.

The Rift Valley is as though a strip of Africa--extending half the length of the continent--had
in time past sunk bodily some thousands of feet, leaving a more or less sheer escarpment on
either side, and preserving intact its own variegated landscape in the bottom. We were on the
Likipia Escarpment. We looked across to the Mau Escarpment, where the country over which our
train had been travelling continued after its interruption by the valley. And below us were
mountains, streams, plains. The westering sun threw strong slants of light down and across.

The engine shut off its power, and we slid silently down the rather complicated grades and
curves of the descent. A noble forest threw its shadows over us. Through the chance openings
we caught glimpses of the pale country far below. Across high trestle bridges we rattled, and
craned over to see the rushing white water of the mountain torrents a hundred feet down. The
shriek of our engine echoed and re-echoed weirdly from the serried trunks of trees and from
the great cliffs that seemed to lift themselves as we descended.

We debarked at Kijabe[17] well after dark. It is situated on a ledge in the escarpment, is
perhaps a quarter-mile wide, and includes nothing more elaborate than the station, a row of
Indian dukkas, and two houses of South Africans set back towards the rise in the cliffs. A
mile or so away, and on a little higher level, stand the extensive buildings of an American
mission. It is, I believe, educational as well as sectarian, is situated in one of the most
healthful climates of East Africa, and is prosperous.

At the moment we saw none of these things. We were too busy getting men, mules, and equipment
out of the train. Our lanterns flared in the great wind that swept down the defile; and across
the track little fires flared too. Shortly we made the acquaintance of the South Africander
who furnished us our ox teams and wagon; and of a lank, drawling youth who was to be our "rider."
The latter was very anxious to get started, so we piled all our stores and equipment but those
immediately necessary for the night aboard the great wagon. Then we returned to the dak-bungalow
for a very belated supper. While eating this we discussed our plans.

These were in essence very simple. Somewhere south of the Great Thirst of the Sotik a river
called the Narossara. Back of the river were high mountains, and down the river were benches
dropping off by thousands of feet to the barren country of Lake Magahdi. Over some of this
country ranged the Greater Kudu, easily the prize buck of East Africa. We intended to try for
a Greater Kudu.

People laughed at us. The beast is extremely rare; it ranges over a wide area; it inhabits
the thickest sort of cover in a sheer mountainous country; its senses are wonderfully acute;
and it is very wary. A man might, once in a blue moon, get one by happening upon it accidentally,
but deliberately to go after it was sheer lunacy. So we were told. As a matter of fact, we
thought so ourselves, but Greater Kudu was as good an excuse as another.

The most immediate of our physical difficulties was the Thirst. Six miles from Kijabe we would
leave the Kedong River. After that was no more water for two days and nights. During that time
we should be forced to travel and rest in alternation day and night, with a great deal of travel
and very little rest. We should be able to carry for the men a limited amount of water on the
ox wagon, but the cattle could not drink. It was a hard, anxious grind. A day's journey beyond
the first water after the Thirst we should cross the Southern Guaso Nyero River.[18] Then two
days should land us at the Narossara. There we must leave our ox wagon and push on with our
tiny safari. We planned to relay back for porters from our different camps.

That was our whole plan. Our transport rider's object in starting this night was to reach the
Kedong River, and there to outspan until our arrival next day. The cattle would thus get a
good feed and rest. Then at four in the afternoon we would set out to conquer the Thirst. After
that it would be a question of travelling to suit the oxen.

Next morning, when we arose, we found one of the wagon Kikuyus awaiting us. His tale ran that
after going four miles, the oxen had been stampeded by lions. In the mix-up the dusselboom
had been broken. He demanded a new dusselboom. I looked as wise as though I knew just what
that meant; and told him largely, to help himself. Shortly he departed carrying what looked
to be the greater part of a forest tree.

We were in no hurry, so we did not try to get our safari under way before eight o'clock. It
consisted of twenty-nine porters, the gunbearers, three personal boys, three syces, and the
cook. Of this lot some few stand out from the rest, and deserve particular attention.

Of course I had my veterans, Memba Sasa and Mohammed. There was also Kongoni, gunbearer, elsewhere
described. The third gunbearer was Marrouki, a Wakamba. He was the personal gunbearer of a
Mr. Twigg, who very courteously loaned him for this trip as possessing some knowledge of the
country. He was a small person, with stripes about his eyes; dressed in a Scotch highland cap,
khaki breeches, and a shooting coat miles too big for him. His soul was earnest, his courage
great, his training good, his intelligence none too brilliant. Timothy, our cook, was pure
Swahili. He was a thin, elderly individual, with a wrinkled brow of care. This represented
a conscientious soul. He tried hard to please, but he never could quite forget that he had
cooked for the Governor's safari. His air was always one of silent disapproval of our modest
outfit. So well did he do, however, often under trying circumstances, that at the close of
the expedition Billy presented him with a very fancy knife. To her vast astonishment he burst
into violent sobs.

"Why, what is it?" she asked.

"Oh, memsahib," he wailed, "I wanted a watch!"

As personal boy Billy had a Masai named Geyeye.[19] The members of this proud and aristocratic
tribe rarely condescend to work for the white man; but when they do, they are very fine servants,
for they are highly intelligent. Geyeye was short and very, very ugly. Perhaps this may partly
explain his leaving tribal life, for the Masai generally are over six feet.

C.'s man was an educated Coast Swahili named Abba Ali. This individual was very smart. He wore
a neatly-trimmed Vandyke beard, a flannel boating hat, smart tailored khakis, and carried a
rattan cane. He was alert, quick, and intelligent. His position was midway between that of
personal boy and headman.

Of the rank and file we began with twenty-nine. Two changed their minds before we were fairly
started, and departed in the night. There was no time to get regular porters; but fortunately
a Kikuyu chief detailed two wild savages from his tribe to act as carriers. These two children
of nature drifted in with pleasant smiles and little else save knick-knacks. From our supplies
we gave them two thin jerseys, reaching nearly to the knees. Next day they appeared with broad
tucks sewed around the middle! They looked like "My Mama didn't use wool soap." We then gave
it up, and left them free and untrammelled.

They differed radically. One was past the first enthusiasms and vanities of youth. He was small,
unobtrusive, unornamented. He had no possessions save the jersey, the water-bottle, and the
blanket we ourselves supplied. The blanket he crossed bandolier fashion on one shoulder. It
hung down behind like a tasselled sash. His face was little and wizened and old. He was quiet
and uncomplaining, and the "easy mark" for all the rest. We had constantly to be interfering
to save him from imposition as to too heavy loads, too many jobs, and the like. Nearing the
close of the long expedition, when our loads were lighter and fewer, one day C. spoke up.

"I'm going to give the old man a good time," said he. "I doubt if he's ever had one before,
or if he ever will again. He's that sort of a meek damnfool."

So it was decreed that Kimau[20] should carry nothing for the rest of the trip, was to do no
more work, was to have all he wanted to eat. It was a treat to see him. He accepted these things
without surprise, without spoken thanks; just as he would have accepted an increased supply
of work and kicks. Before his little fire he squatted all day, gazing vacantly off into space,
or gnawing on a piece of the meat he always kept roasting on sticks. He spoke to no one; he
never smiled or displayed any obvious signs of enjoyment; but from him radiated a feeling of
deep content.

