THE WHEEL O' FORTUNE

BY

LOUIS TRACY

Author of "The Wings of the Morning," "The Pillar of Light," "The Captain of the Kansas" etc.

ILLUSTRATIONS BY JAMES MONTGOMERY FLAGG

CONTENTS

     CHAPTER I. WHEREIN FORTUNE TURNS HER WHEEL
    CHAPTER II. THE COMPACT
   CHAPTER III. A CHANGE OF SKY, BUT NOT OF HABIT
    CHAPTER IV. VON KERBER EXPLAINS
     CHAPTER V. MISS FENSHAWE SEEKS AN ALLY
    CHAPTER VI. AT THE PORTAL
   CHAPTER VII. MRS. HAXTON RECEIVES A SHOCK
  CHAPTER VIII. MASSOWAH ASSERTS ITSELF
    CHAPTER IX. A GALLOP IN THE DARK
     CHAPTER X. THE CALM BEFORE THE STORM
    CHAPTER XI. A WOMAN INTERVENES
   CHAPTER XII. STUMP DEPENDS ON OBSERVATION
  CHAPTER XIII. THE SIGN IN THE SKY
   CHAPTER XIV. WHEREIN A BISHARIN CAMEL BECOMES USEFUL
    CHAPTER XV. THE DESERT AWAKES
   CHAPTER XVI. A FLIGHT--AND A FIGHT
  CHAPTER XVII. HOW THREE ROADS LED IN ONE DIRECTION
 CHAPTER XVIII. THE FINDING OF THE TREASURE

        LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS

"By the Prophet!" he exclaimed, "I am overjoyed at seeing you"
 "I don't want your charity, I want work!"
 "Let your prisoner go, Mr. King"
 "Good morning, Mr. King," she cried
 "You need no promise from me, Miss Fenshawe"
 The Arab appraised Royson with critical eye
 He did not dare meet the glance suddenly turned upon him
 "Go, Dick, but come back to me in safety"

CHAPTER I

WHEREIN FORTUNE TURNS HER WHEEL

At ten o'clock on a morning in October--a dazzling, sunlit morning after hours of wind-lashed
rain--a young man hurried out of Victoria Station and dodged the traffic and the mud-pools
on his way towards Victoria Street. Suddenly he was brought to a stand by an unusual spectacle.
A procession of the "unemployed" was sauntering out of Vauxhall Bridge Road into the more important
street. Being men of leisure, the processionists moved slowly. The more alert pedestrian who
had just emerged from the station did not grumble at the delay--he even turned it to advantage
by rolling and lighting a cigarette. The ragged regiment filed past, a soiled, frayed, hopeless-looking
gang. Three hundred men had gathered on the south side of the river, and were marching to join
other contingents on the Thames Embankment, whence some thousands of them would be shepherded
by policemen up Northumberland Avenue, across Trafalgar Square, and so, by way of Lower Regent
Street and Piccadilly, to Hyde Park, where they would hoarsely cheer every demagogue who blamed
the Government for their miseries.

London, like Richard Royson, would stand on the pavement and watch them. Like him, it would
drop a few coins into the collecting boxes rattled under its nose, and grin at the absurd figure
cut by a very fat man who waddled notably, among his leaner brethren, for hunger and substance
are not often found so strangely allied. But, having salved its conscience by giving, and gratified
its sarcastic humor by laughing, London took thought, perhaps, when it read the strange device
on the banner carried by this Vauxhall contingent. "Curse your charity --we want work," said
the white letters, staring threateningly out of a wide strip of red cotton. There was a brutal
force in the phrase. It was Socialism in a tabloid. Many a looker-on, whose lot was nigh as
desperate as that of the demonstrators, felt that it struck him between the eyes.

It had some such effect on Royson. Rather abruptly he turned away, and reached the less crowded
Buckingham Palace Road. His face was darkened by a frown, though his blue eyes had a glint
of humor in them. The legend on the banner had annoyed him. Its blatant message had penetrated
the armor of youth, high spirits, and abounding good health. It expressed his own case, with
a crude vigor. The "unemployed" genius who railed at society in that virile line must have
felt as he, Dick Royson, had begun to feel during the past fortnight, and the knowledge that
this was so was exceedingly distasteful. It was monstrous that he should rate himself on a
par with those slouching wastrels. The mere notion brought its own confutation. Twenty-four
years of age, well educated, a gentleman by birth and breeding, an athlete who stood six feet
two inches high in his stockings, the gulf was wide, indeed, between him and the charity-cursers
who had taken his money. Yet--the words stuck....

Evidently, he was fated to be a sight-seer that morning. When he entered Buckingham Palace
Road, the strains of martial music banished the gaunt specter called into being by the red
cotton banner. A policeman, more cheerful and spry than his comrades who marshaled the procession
shuffling towards Westminster, strode to the center of the busy crossing, and cast an alert
eye on the converging lines of traffic. Another section of the ever-ready London crowd lined
up on the curb. Nursemaids, bound for the parks, wheeled their perambulators into strategic
positions, thus commanding a clear view and blocking the edge of the pavement. Drivers of omnibuses,
without waiting for the lifted hand of authority, halted in Lower Grosvenor Gardens and Victoria
Street. Cabs going to the station, presumably carrying fares to whom time meant lost trains,
spurted to cross a road which would soon be barred. And small boys gathered from all quarters
in amazing profusion. In a word, the Coldstream Guards were coming from Chelsea Barracks to
do duty at St. James's, coming, too, in the approved manner of the Guards, with lively drumming
and clash of cymbals, while brass and reeds sang some jaunty melody of the hour.

The passing of a regimental band has whisked many a youngster out of staid Britain into the
far lands, the lilt and swing of soldiers on the march have a glamour all the more profound
because it is evanescent. That man must indeed be careworn who would resist it. Certainly,
the broad-shouldered young giant who had been momentarily troubled by the white-red ghost of
poverty was not so minded. He could see easily, over the heads of the people standing on the
edge of the pavement, so he did not press to the front among the rabble, but stood apart, with
his back against a shop window. Thus, he was free to move to right or left as he chose. That
was a slight thing in itself, an unconscious trick of aloofness--perhaps an inherited trait
of occupying his own territory, so to speak. But it is these slight things which reveal character.
They oft-times influence human lives, too; and no man ever extricated himself more promptly
from the humdrum of moneyless existence in London than did Richard Royson that day by placing
the width of the sidewalk between himself and the unbroken row of spectators. Of course, he
knew nothing of that at the moment. His objective was an appointment at eleven' o'clock in
the neighborhood of Charing Cross, and, now that he was given the excuse, he meant to march
along the Mall behind the Guards. Meanwhile, he watched their advance.

Above the tall bearskins and glittering bayonets he caught the flourish of energetic drumsticks.
The big drum gave forth its clamor with window-shaking insistence; it seemed to be the summons
of power that all else should stand aside. On they came, these spruce Guards, each man a marching
machine, trained to strut and pose exactly as his fellows. There was a sense of omnipotence
in their rhythmic movement. And they all had the grand manner--from the elegant captain in
command down to the smallest drummer-boy. Although the sun was shining brightly now, the earlier
rain and hint of winter in the air had clothed all ranks in dark gray great-coats and brown
leggings. Hence, to the untrained glance, they were singularly alike. Officers, sergeants,
privates and bandsmen might have been cast in molds, after the style of toy soldiers. There
were exceptions, of course, just as the fat man achieved distinction among the unemployed.
The crimson sashes of the officers, the drum-major, with his twirling staff, the white apron
of the big drummer, drew the eye. A slim subaltern, carrying the regimental color, held pride
of place in the picture. The rich hues of the silk lent a barbaric splendor to his sober trappings.
And he took himself seriously. A good-looking lad, with smooth contours not yet hardened to
the military type, his face had in it a set gravity which proclaimed that he would bear that
flag whithersoever his country's need demanded. And it was good to see him so intent on the
mere charge of it in transit between Chelsea Barracks and the Guard-room at St. James's Palace.
That argued earnestness, an excellent thing, even in the Household Brigade.

Royson was amusing himself with the contrast between the two types of banner-bearers he had
gazed at in the short space of five minutes--he was specially tickled by the fact that the
Guards, also, were under police protection--when he became aware that the features of the color-
lieutenant were familiar to him. A man in uniform, with forehead and chin partly hidden by
warlike gear, cannot be recognized easily, if there be any initial doubt as to his identity.
To determine the matter, Royson, instead of following in the rear as he had intended, stepped
out brightly and placed himself somewhat ahead of the officer. He was near the drums before
he could make sure that he was actually within a few yards of a former classmate. The knowledge
brought a rush of blood to his face. Though glad enough to see unexpectedly one who had been
a school friend, it was not in human nature that the marked difference between their present
social positions should not be bitter to him. Here was "Jack" marching down the middle of the
road in the panoply of the Guards, while "Dick" his superior during six long years at Rugby,
was hurrying along the pavement, perhaps nearing the brink of that gulf already reached by
the Vauxhall processionists.

So Dick Royson's placid temper was again ruffled, and he might have said nasty things about
Fate had not that erratic dame suddenly thought, fit to alter his fortunes. As the street narrowed
between lofty buildings, so did the blaring thunder of the music increase. The mob closed in
on the soldiers' heels; the whole roadway was packed with moving men. A somber flood of humanity--topped
by the drumsticks, the flag, the glistening bayonets and the bearskins--it seemingly engulfed
all else in its path. The sparkle of the band, intensified by the quick, measured tramp of
the soldiers, aroused a furtive enthusiasm. Old men, bearded and bent, men whom one would never
suspect of having borne arms, straightened themselves, stood to attention, and saluted the
swaying flag. Callow youths, hooligans, round-shouldered slouchers at the best, made shift
to lift their heads and keep step. And the torrent caught the human flotsam of the pavement
in its onward swirl. If Royson had not utilized that clear space lower down the street, it
would have demanded the exercise of sheer force to reach the van of the dense gathering of
nondescripts now following the drum.

Nevertheless, a clearance was made, and speedily, with the startling suddenness of a summer
whirlwind. A pair of horses, attached to an open carriage, were drawn up in a by-street until
the Guards had passed. So far as Royson was concerned, they were on the opposite side of the
road, with their heads towards him. But he happened to be looking that way, because his old-time
companion, the Hon. John Paton Seymour, was in the direct line of sight, and his unusual stature
enabled him to see that both horses reared simultaneously. They took the coachman by surprise,
and their downward plunge dragged him headlong from the box. Instantly there was a panic among
the mob. It melted away from the clatter of frenzied hoofs as though a live shell had burst
in the locality. Two staccato syllables from the officer in command stopped the music and brought
the Guards to a halt. The horses dashed madly forward, barely missing the color and its escort.
A ready-witted sergeant grabbed at the loose reins flapping in the air, but they eluded him
with a snake-like twist. The next wild leap brought the carriage pole against a lamp-post,
and both were broken. Then one of the animals stumbled, half turned, backed, and locked the
front wheels. A lady, the sole occupant, was discarding some heavy wraps which impeded her
movements, evidently meaning to spring into the road, but she was given no time. The near hind
wheel was already off the ground. In another second the carriage must be overturned, had not
Royson, brought by chance to the right place, seized the off wheel and the back of the hood,
and bodily lifted the rear part of the victoria into momentary safety. It was a fine display
of physical strength, and quick judgment. He literally threw the vehicle a distance of several
feet. But that was not all. He saw his opportunity, caught the reins, and took such a pull
at the terrified horses that a policeman and a soldier were able to get hold of their heads.
The coachman, who had fallen clear, now ran up. With him came a gentleman in a fur coat. Royson
was about to turn and find out what had become of the lady, when some one said quietly:

"Well saved, King Dick!"

It was the Hon. John Seymour who spoke. Rigid as a statue, and almost as helpless, he was standing
in the middle of the road, with his left hand holding the flag and a drawn sword in his right.
Yet a school nickname bridged five years so rapidly that the man who had just been reviling
Fate smiled at the picturesque officer of the Guards in the old, tolerant way, the way in which
the hero of the eleven or fifteen permits his worshipers to applaud.

But this mutual recognition went no further. The Guards must on to St. James's. Some incomprehensible
growls set them in motion again, the drum banged with new zest, and the street gradually emptied,
leaving only a few curious gapers to surround the damaged victoria and the trembling horses.
The fresh outburst of music brought renewed prancing, but the pair were in hand now, for Royson
held the reins, and the mud- bedaubed coachman was ready to twist their heads off in his wrath.

"Don't know what took 'em," he was gasping to the policeman. "Never knew 'em be'ave like this
afore. Quiet as sheep, they are, as a ryule."

"Too fat," explained the unemotional constable. "Give 'em more work an' less corn. Wot's your
name an' address? There's this 'ere lamp-post to pay for. Cavalry charges in Buckingham Palace
Road cost a bit."

An appreciative audience grinned at the official humor. But Royson was listening to the somewhat
lively conversation taking place behind him.

"Are you injured in any way?" cried the gentleman in the far coat, obviously addressing the
lady in the victoria. The too accurate cadence in his words bespoke the foreigner, the man
who has what is called "a perfect command" of English.

"Not in the least, thank you," was the answer. The voice was clear, musical, well-bred, and
decidedly chilling. The two concluding words really meant "no thanks to you," The lady was,
however, quite self- possessed, and, as a consequence, polite.

"But why in the world did you not jump out when I shouted to you?" demanded the man.

"Because you threw your half of the rug over my feet, and thus hindered me."

"Did I? Ach, Gott! Do you think I deserted you, then?"

"No, no, I did not mean that, Baron von Kerber. The affair was an accident, and you naturally
thought I would follow your example, I did try, twice, to spring clear, but I lost my balance
each time. We have no cause to blame one another. My view is that Spong was caught napping.
Instead of arguing about things we might have done, we really ought to thank this gentleman,
who prevented any further developments in some wonderful way not quite known to me yet."

The lady was talking herself into less caustic mood. Perhaps she had not expected the Baron
to shine in an emergency. Her calmness seemed to irritate him, though he was most anxious to
put himself right with her.

"My object in jumping out so quickly was to run to the horses' heads," he said. "Unfortunately,
I tripped and nearly fell. But why sit there? We must take a hansom. Or perhaps you would prefer
to go by train?"

"Oh, a cab, by all means."

The horses were now standing so quietly that Royson handed the reins to the coachman, who was
examining the traces. Then he was able to turn and look at the lady. He saw that she was young
and pretty, but the heavy furs she wore half concealed her face, and the fact that his own
garments were frayed, while his hands and overcoat were plastered with mud off the wheels,
did not help to dissipate a certain embarrassment that gripped him, for he was a shy man where
women were concerned. She, too, faltered a little, and the reason was made plain by her words.

"I do not know how to thank you," she said, and he became aware that she had wonderful brown
eyes. "I think--you saved my life. Indeed, I am sure you did. Will you--call--at an address
that I will give you? Mr. Fenshawe will be most anxious to--to--acknowledge your services."

"Oh, pray leave that to me, Miss Fenshawe," broke in the Baron, whose fluent English had a
slight lisp. "Here is my card," he went on rapidly, looking at Royson with calm assurance.
"Come and see me this evening, at seven o'clock, and I will make it worth your while."

A glance at Royson's clothes told him enough, as he thought, to appraise the value of the assistance
given. And he had no idea that his fair companion had really been in such grave danger. He
believed that the shattering of the pole against the lamp standard had stopped the bolting
horses, and that the tall young man now surveying him with a measuring eye had merely succeeded
in catching the reins.

Royson lifted his hat to the lady, who had alighted, and was daintily gathering her skirts
out of the mud.

"I am glad to have been able to help you, madam," he said. He would have gone without another
word had not von Kerber touched his arm.

"You have not taken my card," said the man imperiously.

Some mischievous impulse, born of the turbulent emotions momentarily quelled by the flurry
of the carriage accident, conquered Royson's better instincts. Though the Baron, was tall,
he towered above him. And he hardly realized the harshness, the vexed contempt, of his muttered
reply:

"I don't want your charity, I want work."

At once he was conscious of his mistake. He had sunk voluntarily to the level of the Vauxhall
paraders. He had even stolen their thunder. A twinge of self-denunciation drove the anger from
his frowning eyes. And the Baron again thought he read his man correctly.

"Even so," he said, in a low tone, "take my card. I can find you work, of the right sort, for
one who has brains and pluck, yes?"

The continental trick of ending with an implied question lent a subtle meaning to his utterance,
and he helped it with covert glance and sour smile. Thus might Caesar Borgia ask some minion
if he could use a dagger. But Royson was too humiliated by his blunder to pay heed to hidden
meanings. He grasped the card in his muddied fingers, and looked towards Miss Fenshawe, who
was now patting one of the horses. Her aristocratic aloofness was doubly galling. She, too,
had heard what he said, and was ready to classify him with the common herd. And, indeed, he
had deserved it. He was wholly amazed by his own churlish outburst. Not yet did he realize
that Fate had taken his affairs in hand, and that each step he took, each syllable he uttered
in that memorable hour, were part and parcel of the new order of events in his life.

Quite crestfallen, he hurried away. He found himself inside the gates of the park before he
took note of direction. Then he went to the edge of the lake, wetted his handkerchief, and
rubbed off the worst of the mud-stains. While engaged in this task he calmed down sufficiently
to laugh, not with any great degree of mirth, it is true, but with a grain of comfort at the
recollection of Seymour's eulogy.

"King Dick!" he growled. "Times have changed since last I heard that name. By gad, five years
can work wonders."

And, indeed, so can five seconds, when wonders are working, but the crass ignorance of humanity
oft prevents the operation being seen. Be that as it may, Royson discovered that it was nearly
eleven o'clock before he had cleaned his soiled clothes sufficiently to render himself presentable.
As he set out once more for his rendezvous, he heard the band playing the old Guard back to
quarters. The soldiers came down the Mall, but he followed the side of the lake, crossed the
Horse-guards Parade, and reached the office for which he was bound at ten minutes past eleven.
He had applied for a secretaryship, a post in which "a thorough knowledge of French" was essential,
and he was received by a pompous, flabby little man, with side whiskers, for whom he conceived
a violent dislike the moment he set eyes on him. Apparently, the feeling was mutual. Dick Royson
was far too distinguished looking to suit the requirements of the podgy member for a county
constituency, a legislator who hoped to score in Parliament by getting the Yellow Books of
the French Chamber translated for his benefit.

"You are late, Mr. Royson," began the important one.

"Yes," said Dick.

"Punctuality--"

"Exactly, but I was mixed up in a slight mishap to a carriage."

"As I was about to remark," said the M.P., in his most impressive manner, "punctuality in business
is a sine qua non. I have already appointed another secretary."

"Poor devil!" said Dick.

"How dare you, sir, speak to me in that manner?"

"I was thinking of him. I don't know him, but, having seen you, I am sorry for him."

"You impudent rascal--"

But Royson had fled. Out in the street, he looked up at the sky. "Is there a new moon?" he
asked himself, gravely. "Am I cracked? Why did I pitch into that chap? If I'm not careful,
I shall get myself into trouble to-day. I wonder if Jack Seymour will lend me enough to take
me to South Africa? They say that war is brewing there. That is what I want--gore, bomb-shells,
more gore. If I stay in London--"

Then he encountered a procession coming up Northumberland Avenue. Police, mounted and on foot,
headed it. Behind marched the unemployed, thousands of them.

"If I stay in London," he continued, quite seriously, "I shall pick out a beefy policeman and
fight him. Then I shall get locked up, and my name will be in the papers, and my uncle will
see it, and have a fit, and die. I don't want my uncle to have a fit, and die, or I shall feel
that I am responsible for his death. So I must emigrate."

Suddenly he recalled the words and manner of the Baron von Kerber. They came to him with the
vividness of a new impression. He sought for the card in his pocket. "Baron Franz von Kerber,
118, Queen's Gate, W.," it read.

"Sounds like an Austrian name," he reflected. "But the girl was English, a thoroughbred, too.
What was it he said? 'Work of the right sort, for a man with brains and pluck.' Well, I shall
give this joker a call. If he wants me to tackle anything short of crime, I'm his man. Failing
him, I shall see Jack to-morrow, when he is off duty."

A red banner was staggering up Northumberland Avenue, and he caught a glimpse of a fat man
in the midst of the lean ones.

"Oh, dash those fellows, they give me the hump," he growled, and he turned his back on them
a second time. But no military pomp or startled horses offered new adventure that day. He wandered
about the streets, ate a slow luncheon, counted his money, seventeen shillings all told, went
into the British Museum, and dawdled through its galleries until he was turned out. Then he
bought a newspaper, drank some tea, and examined the shipping advertisements.

His mind was fixed on South Africa. Somehow, it never occurred to him that the fur-clothed
Baron might find him suitable employment. Nevertheless, he went to 118, Queen's Gate, at seven
o'clock. The footman who opened the door, seemed to be expecting him.

"Mr. King?" said the man.

This struck Royson as distinctly amusing.

"Something like that," he answered, but the footman had the face of a waxen image.

"This way, Mr. King."

And Royson followed him up a wide staircase, marveling at the aptness of the name.

CHAPTER II

THE COMPACT

The Baron Franz von Kerber was in evening dress. He was engrossed in the examination of a faded,
or discolored, document when Royson was shown into an apartment, nominally the drawing-room,
which the present tenant had converted into a spacious study. An immense map of the Red Sea
littoral, drawn and colored by hand, hung on one of the walls; there were several chart cases
piled on a table; and a goodly number of books, mainly ancient tomes, were arranged on shelves
or stacked on floor and chairs. This was the room of a worker. Von Kerber's elegant exterior
was given a new element of importance by his surroundings.

That was as much as Royson could note before the Baron looked up from the letter he was reading.
It demanded close scrutiny, because it was written in Persi-Arabic.

"Ah, glad to see you, Mr. King," he said affably. "Sit there," and he pointed to an empty chair.
Dick knew that this seat in particular was selected because it would place him directly in
front of a cluster of electric lights. He waited until the door was closed.

"By the way," he said, "why do you call me 'King'? That is not my name, but it is rather extraordinary
that you should have hit on it, because it is part of a nickname I had at school."

He was fully at ease now. Poverty and anxiety can throw even a Napoleon out of gear, but Richard
Royson was hard as granite in some ways, and the mere decision to go to South Africa had driven
the day's distempered broodings from his mind.

"I thought I heard the officer who spoke to you in Buckingham Palace Road address you as King,"
explained von Kerber.

"Yes, that is true," admitted Royson. He felt that it would savor of the ridiculous, in his
present circumstances, were he to state his nickname in full and explain the significance of
it. In fact, he was resolved to accept the five-pound note which the Baron would probably offer
him, and be thankful for it. Hence, the pseudonym rather soothed his pride.

Von Kerber placed the Arabic scrawl under a paperweight. He was a man who plumed himself on
a gift of accurate divination. Such a belief is fatal. For the third time that day, he misunderstood
the Englishman's hesitancy.

"What's in a name?" he quoted, smilingly. "Suppose I continue to call you King? It is short,
and easily remembered, and your English names puzzle me more than your language, which is difficult
enough, yes?"

"Then we can leave it at that," agreed Royson.

"I thought so. Well, to come to business. What can you do?"

"It would be better, perhaps, if you told me what you want me to do."

"Can you ride?"

"Yes."

"Have you ever been to sea?"

Royson pricked up his ears at this. "The sea!" suggested undreamed-of possibilities. And von
Kerber certainly had the actor's facial art of conveying much more than the mere purport of
his words. The map, the charts, assumed a new meaning. Were they scenic accessories? Had this
foreigner taken the whim to send him abroad on some mission? He decided to be less curt in
his statements.

"If I simply answered your question I should be compelled to say 'No,'" he replied. "So far
as my actual sea-going is concerned, it has consisted of trips across the Channel when I was
a boy. Yet I am a fair sailor. I can handle a small yacht better than most men of my age. My
experience is confined to a lake, but it is complete in that small way. And I taught myself
the rudiments of navigation as a pastime."

"Ah!"

The Baron expressed both surprise and gratification by the monosyllable. Royson was weighing
his companion closely now, and he came to the conclusion, that there were qualities in that
tall, thin, somewhat effeminate personality which he had not detected during their brief meeting
of the morning. Von Kerber was good-looking, with something of the dignity and a good deal
of the aspect of a bird of prey. His slender frame was well-knit. His sinuous hands hinted
at unexpected strength. Were Royson told that his possible employer was a master of the rapier
he would have credited it. And the Baron, for his part, was rapidly changing the first-formed
estimate of his guest.

"Pray forgive me if I seem to intrude on your personal affairs," he said; "but, taking your
own words, you are--how do you say it-- schlimm--aux abois--"

"Hard up. Yes."

"What? You speak German, or is it French?"

"German, a little. I am understandable in French."

"Ah."

Again von Kerber paused. Royson smiled. Had he striven to mislead the other man as to his character
he could not have succeeded so admirably. And the Baron read the smile according to his own
diagnosis. He was sure that this well-educated, gentlemanly, yet morose-mannered young Englishman
was under a cloud--that he had broken his country's laws, and been broken himself in the process.
And von Kerber was searching for men of that stamp. They would do things that others, who pinned
their faith to testimonials, certificates, and similar vouchers of repute, might shy at.

"I think you are one to be trusted?" he went on.

"I am glad you think that."

"Yes. I soon make up my mind. And to-day you acted as one man among a thousand. Miss Fenshawe,
the lady in the carriage, enlightened me afterwards. I saw only part of your fine behavior.
You were quick and fearless. Those are the qualities I seek, but I demand obedience, too, and
a still tongue, yes?"

"I would not betray a man who trusted me," said Dick. "If I disagreed with you I would leave
you. I fell out with the son of my last employer, so I left him, a fortnight ago. Yet I have
kept my reasons to myself."

The memory of that falling out was yet vivid. He had filled the position of foreign correspondence
clerk to an export firm in the city. One evening, returning late to the office, he surprised
the typist, a rather pretty girl, in tears. She blurted out some broken words which led him
to interview the young gentleman who represented the budding talent of the house; and the result
was lamentable. The senior partner dismissed him next day, telling him he was lucky he had
escaped arrest for a murderous assault, and, as for the girl, she was like the rest of her
class, anxious only to inveigle a rich young fool into marriage. The point of view of both
father and son was novel to Royson, and their ethics were vile, but he gave the girl, who was
sent away at the same time, half of the six pounds he had in his pocket, and wished he had
used his fist instead of his open hand on the junior partner's face.

This, of course, had singularly little bearing on his declaration to von Kerber, who metaphorically
stuck his talons into that portion of Royson's utterance which interested him. He bent across
the table, leaning on his curved fingers, spread apart, like claws.

"Ah," he said slowly. "That is good. You would not betray a man who trusted you. You mean that?"

"I do."

"Very well, then. I offer you the position of second mate on my yacht, the Aphrodite. She is
a sailing vessel, with auxiliary steam, a seaworthy craft, of two hundred and eighty tons.
I pay well, but I ask good service. The salary is L20 per month, all found. The captain, two
officers, and fourteen men receive ten per cent of the gross profits of a certain undertaking--the
gross profits, remember--divided in proportion to their wages. If successful, your share, small
though it sounds, will be large enough to make you a comparatively rich man. Do you accept, yes?"

Dick Royson felt his heart thumping against his ribs. "Why, of course, I accept," he cried.
"But your terms are so generous, to a man without a profession, that I must ask you one thing?
Is the affair such as an honest man can take part in?"

"It is. No one can cavil at its honesty. Yet we may encounter difficulties. There may be fighting,
not against a government, but to defend our--our gains--from those who would rob us."

"I'm with you, heart and soul," cried Royson, stirred out of his enforced calmness. "Indeed,
I am exceedingly obliged to you. I am at a loss to account for my amazing good luck."

The Baron snapped his fingers with a fine air. "Good luck!" he exclaimed. "There is no such
thing. A man with intelligence and nerve grasps the opportunity when it presents itself. You
took it this morning. You may say that you might not have been given the chance. Nonsense,
my dear Mr. King! Missing that, you would have found another. Let me tell you that I have created
a place for you on the ship's roll. You took my fancy. I had already secured my crew. They
are all Englishmen--stupid fellows, some of them, but trustworthy. You are a trustworthy race,
yes?"

"That is our repute. I have met exceptions."

"Oh, as for that, every man has his price. That is why I pay well. Now, I am going out to dine.
The Aphrodite sails this week. You. will sign an agreement, yes?"

"Delighted," said Dick, though bitter experience had taught him that von Kerber's last question
might reveal some disagreeable feature hitherto unseen, just as the sting of the scorpion lies
in its tail.

The Baron handed him a printed document.

"Read that," he said. "You need have no fear of legal quibbles. It contains nothing unreasonable,
but I insist on its observance in letter and spirit."

Certainly, no unfair demand was made by the brief contract which Royson glanced at. He noticed
that the Aphrodite was described as "owned by Hiram Fenshawe, Esq., of Chalfount Manor, Dorset,
and Emperor's Gate, London, W.," while Baron Franz von Kerber figured as "controller and head
of the expedition." The agreement was to hold good for six months, with an option, "vesting
solely in the said Baron Franz von Kerber," to extend it, month by month, for another equal
period. There were blanks for dates and figures--, and one unusual clause read:

"The undersigned hereby promises not to divulge the vessel's destination or mission, should
either, or both, become known to him; not to give any information which may lead to inquiry
being made by others as to her destination or mission, and not to make any statement, in any
form whatsoever, as to the success or otherwise of the voyage at its conclusion, unless at
the request of the said Baron Franz von Kerber. The penalty for any infringement of this clause,
of which Baron Franz von Kerber shall be the judge, shall be dismissal, without any indemnity
or payment of the special bonus hereinafter recited."

Then followed the salary clause, and a stipulation as to the ten per cent share of the gross
profits. The Baron's promises could not have been phrased in more straightforward style.

"Give me a pen," said Royson, placing the paper on a blotting pad.

There was an unconscious masterfulness in his voice and manner which seemed to startle von
Kerber. In very truth, the younger man was overjoyed at the astounding turn taken by his fortunes.
The restraint he had imposed on himself earlier was gone. He wanted to wring the Baron's hand
and hail him as his best friend. Perhaps the other deemed this attitude a trifle too free and
easy in view of the relations that would exist between them in the near future.

"You will find a pen on the ink-stand," said he, quietly, stooping, over some papers on a corner
of the table. Then he added, apparently as an afterthought:

"Don't forget your name, Mr. King."

The hint brought Royson back to earth. He signed "Richard King," dried the ink carefully, and
marveled a little at his re-christening and its sequel.

"When and where shall I report myself for duty, sir?" he asked.

Von Kerber looked up. His tone grew affable again, and Dick had learnt already that it is a
token of weakness when a man insists on his own predominance.

"First let me fill in a date and the amount of your salary." The Baron completed and signed
a duplicate. "Get that stamped at Somerset House, in case of accident," he continued, "I might
have been killed this very day, you know. One of my servants will witness both documents. Before
he comes in, put this envelope in your pocket. It contains half of your first month's salary
in advance, and you will find in it a card with the address of a firm of clothiers, who will
supply your outfit free of charge. Call on them early to-morrow, as the time is short, and
you are pretty long, yes? Report yourself to the same people at four o'clock on Wednesday afternoon.
They will have your baggage ready, and give you full directions. From that moment you are in
my service. And now, the order is silence, yes?"

While the Baron was speaking he touched an electric bell. The waxen- faced man-servant appeared,
laboriously wrote "William Jenkins" where he was bid, and escorted Royson to the door. The
Baron merely nodded when Dick said "Good night, sir." He had picked up an opera hat and overcoat
from a chair, but was bestowing a hasty farewell glance on the Persi-Arabic letter.

A closed carriage and pair of horses were standing in front of the house, and Royson recognized
the coachman. It was that same Spong who had groveled in the mud of Buckingham Palace Road
nine hours ago. And the man knew him again, for he raised his whip in a deferential salute.

"Not much damage done this morning?" cried Dick.

"No, sir. I drove 'em home afterwards, broken pole an' all," said Spong.

"That's not the same pair, is it?"

"No, sir. This lot is theayter, the bays is park."

So Mr. Hiram Fenshawe, whoever he was, owned the yacht, and ran at least two fine equipages
from his town house. He must be a wealthy man. Was he the father of that patrician maid whose
gratitude had not stood the strain of Royson's gruffness? Or, it might be, her brother, seeing
that he was associated with von Kerber in some unusual enterprise? What was it? he wondered.
"There may be fighting," said von Kerber. Dick was glad of that. He had taken a solemn vow
to his dying mother that he would not become a soldier, and the dear lady died happy in the
belief that she had snatched her son from the war-dragon which had bereft her of a husband.
The vow lay heavy on the boy's heart daring many a year, for he was a born man-at-arms, but
he had kept it, and meant to keep it, though not exactly according to the tenets of William
Penn. Somehow, his mother's beautiful face, wanly exquisite in that unearthly light which foreshadows
the merging of time into eternity, rose before him now as he passed from the aristocratic dimness
of Prince's Gate into the glare and bustle of Knightsbridge. A newsboy rushed along, yelling
at the top of his voice. The raucous cry took shape: "Kroojer's reply. Lytest from Sarth Hafricar."
That day's papers had spoken of probable war, and Royson wanted to be there. He had dreamed
of doing some work for the press, and was a reader and writer in his spare time, while he kept
his muscles fit by gymnastics. But those past yearnings were merged in his new calling. He
was a sailor now, a filibuster of sorts. The bo's'n's whistle would take the place of the bugle-call.
Would that have pleased his mother? Well, poor soul, she had never imagined that her son would
be compelled to chafe his life out at a city desk. The very, air of London had become oppressive;
the hurrying crowd was unsympathetic to his new-found joy of living; so, without any well-defined
motive, he sought the ample solitude of the park.

Be it noted that he usually went straight from point to point without regard to obstacles.
Hence, in his devious wanderings of that remarkable day, he was departing from fixed habit,
and, were he a student of astrology, he would assuredly have sought to ascertain what planets
were in the ascendant at a quarter-past ten in the morning, and half-past seven in the evening.
For he had scarcely reached the quiet gloom of the trees when a man, who had followed him since
he quitted von Kerber's house, overtook him and touched his arm.

"Beg pardon," said the stranger, "but are you the gentleman who called on Baron von Kerber
half an hour ago?"

"Yes." Taken unawares, Dick was thrown off his guard for the instant.

"And you left his house just now?"

"Yes."

"To prevent a mistake, may I ask your name?"

"Certainly. It is Royson, Richard Royson."

"And address?"

A curious ring of satisfaction in the newcomer's voice carried a warning note with it. Dick
was conscious, too, that he had departed from the new role assigned to him by his employer,
yet it would be absurd to begin explaining that he was not known as Royson, but as King, in
connection with von Kerber. The blunder annoyed him, and he faced his questioner squarely.

"Before I give you any more information I want to know who you are," he said.

His downright way of speaking appeared to carry conviction.

"Well, Mr. Royson, I don't mind telling you that I am a private inquiry agent," was the ominous
answer. "I am retained by a gentleman who brings a very serious charge against von Kerber,
and, as I have reason to believe that you are only slightly mixed up in this affair at present,
I am commissioned to offer you a handsome reward for any valuable information you may give
my client or procure for him in the future."

"Indeed!" said Dick, who was debating whether or not to knock the man down.

"Yes. We mean business, I assure you. This is no common matter. Von Kerber is an Austrian,
and my client is an Italian. Perhaps you know how they hate each other as nations, and these
two have a private quarrel as well."

"What does your employer want to find out?" asked Dick.

"Well, as a start, he wants to know why von Kerber is shipping a crew for a yacht called the
Aphrodite."

"Then he has learned something already?"

"Oh, that was too easy. Any one can pump a half-drunken sailor."

The private inquiry agent spoke confidentially. He fancied he had secured the sort of aide
he needed, a spy of superior intelligence.

"Suppose I give you that first item of news, what is the figure?"

"Say a fiver."

"But I am almost willing to pay that much for the pleasure of spreading your nose over your face."

There was a sudden gap between the two. Perhaps the stranger felt that the rawness of the atmosphere
demanded brisk movement.

"Oh, is that it?" snarled he.

"Yes, that is it."

"You had better be careful what you are doing." Dick had advanced a pace, but the agent sheered
off twice as far, as though the air between them was not only cold but resilient.

"I shall be quite careful. Just one small punch, say a sovereign's worth. Come, that is cheap
enough."

Then the man ran off at top speed. Royson could have caught him in a few strides, but he did
not move. He had not meant to hit, only to scare, yet the incident was perplexing, and the
more he pondered over it the less pleased he was at his own lack of finesse, as he might have
learnt something without fear of indiscretion, seeing that he had nothing to tell. Nevertheless,
his final decision was in favor of the first impulse. Von Kerber had treated him with confidence--why
should he wish to possess any disturbing knowledge of von Kerber?

But he refused to be shadowed like a thief. He stepped out, left the park at Stanhope Gate,
jumped on to a passing omnibus, changed it for another in the middle of Oxford Street, and
walked down. Regent Street with a well-founded belief that he had defeated espionage for the
time. Thereafter, he behaved exactly like several hundred thousand young men In London that
night. He dined, bought some cigars, rare luxuries to him, went to a music-hall, soon wearied
of its inanities, and traveled by an early train to Brixton, where he rented cheap lodgings.

He slept the sleep of sound digestion, which is so often confused with a good conscience, and
rose betimes. At a city tailoring establishment he was measured dubiously, being far removed
from stock size. But a principal made light of difficulties, and Royson noticed that he was
to be supplied with riding breeches and boots in addition to a sea-faring kit, while a sola
topi, or pith helmet, appeared, in the list.

He asked no questions, was assured that all would be in readiness at four o'clock that day,
and found himself turned loose again in London at an early hour with nothing to do. And what
do you think he did? He caught a Mansion-House train to Victoria, waylaid the Guards a second
time, marched with them valiantly to St. James's, and took a keen delight in their stately
pageant. He saw his friend, Seymour, strolling to and fro with a brother officer in the tiny
square, and watched him march; back to Chelsea with the relieved guard.

Then, with all the zest of seeing London from a new standpoint, that of moneyed idleness, he
strolled towards Hyde Park. He took the road known as the Ladies' Mile, crossed the Serpentine
by the bridge, and came back by the Row. There, near the Albert Gate crossing, a lady had reined
in her chestnut hunter and was talking to an old gentleman standing near the rails. Had Royson
stared at her, he might have remembered the eyes, and the finely-cut contours of nose, lips
and chin. But his acquaintance with fashionable society had been severed so completely that
he was not aware of the new code which permits its votaries to stare at a pretty woman; and
a riding-habit offers sharp contrast to a set of sables. He was passing, all unconscious of
the interest he had aroused in the lady, when he heard her say:

"Why, grandfather, there he is. Good morning, Mr. King. Mr. Fenshawe and I were just talking
about you."

Royson would have known her voice anywhere. It had the rare distinction of music and perfect
diction. Amidst the shrill vulgarity which counterfeited wit in the average upper class gathering
of the period such a voice must have sounded like the song of a robin in a crowded rookery.

The unexpected greeting brought a rush of color to Dick's face. But yesterday's cloud had vanished,
and his natural embarrassment was obviously that of a well-bred man young enough to be delighted
by the recognition. Moreover, he was not covered with mud, nor had his sensibilities been jarred
by standards representing the hell and heaven of modern existence.

He lifted his hat.

"I am glad to see you have experienced no ill effects from yesterday's shock, Miss Fenshawe,"
he said.

"Not in the least. It was a wonderful escape. Even the victoria leaves hospital this afternoon,
I am told."

Mr. Fenshawe, whose silvery-white hair and wrinkled skin betokened an age that his erect, spare
frame would otherwise have concealed, patted Royson's shoulder.

"You did well, Mr. King, very well. I am much beholden to you. And I was pleased to hear from
Baron von Kerber last night that you have joined our expedition."

Though of middle height, Mr. Fenshawe had to raise his hand as high as his own forehead to
reach Dick's back. His eyes were shrewd and keen, with the introspective look of the student.
Though it was more than probable that he was very wealthy, judging from the meager details
within Royson's ken, he had the semblance of a university professor rather than a millionaire.

"I think the good fortune is wholly mine, sir," said Dick, trying to answer both at once, and
puzzled to determine how he could repudiate the name which von Kerber had fastened on to him.

"No, we will not put it that way," and the other seemed to sweep some confusing thought from
before his mental vision. "Let us say that the reward will be commensurate with the deed. We
do not forget, we Fenshawes, do we, Irene? Good day, Mr. King. I hope to make your better acquaintance.
We shall see much of each other ere long."

Thus dismissed, with another friendly tap on the shoulder, Royson had no option but to raise
his hat again. He received a very gracious smile from Miss Fenshawe, and he left the two with
a curious consciousness that there was at least one woman in the world who had the power to
send his blood whirling through his veins.

As he walked off under the trees, the eyes of grandfather and granddaughter followed him.

"A useful man that, for work in the desert," said Mr. Fenshawe.

"Yes. Quite a Crusader in appearance," mused the girl aloud.

The old man laughed noiselessly.

"I find you are only half persuaded as to the peaceable nature of our task, Irene," he said.

"I find it even more difficult to persuade you that Count von Kerber fears interference, grandad."

"My dear child, these foreigners are all nerves. Look at me. I have spent twenty years of my
life among the Arabs, and felt safer there than in a London crowd."

"Yes, you dear old thing, but you are not Count von Kerber."

"Nerves, Irene, nothing else. At any rate, your Mr. King should adjust the average in that
respect. And if you begin to talk of risk I shall have to reconsider my decision to take you
with us."

The chestnut threw up his head, and pranced excitedly, having been warned that a gallop was
imminent.

"No, you don't," laughed Irene. "If we Fenshawes do not forget, we also stick together. By-by.
See you at lunch."

And she was gone, sitting her horse with the ease and sureness of one of those Arabs in whom
her grandfather placed such confidence.

CHAPTER III

A CHANGE OF SKY, BUT NOT OF HABIT

Royson had time and to spare for the analysis of events during the remainder of the day. In
spite of von Kerber's repudiation of luck, he believed that the fickle jade sometimes favored
a man, and he counted himself thrice fortunate in having met with an adventure leading to such
an unforeseen opening. He realized too, that had he been better dressed--were his words and
manners modeled on smooth convention--he would not have received the offer of employment on
board the Aphrodite. Looked at in cold blood, there was nothing sinister in von Kerber's wish
to keep his business affairs private. If the Baron were mixed up in a quarrel with some unknown
Italian, his association with people like Mr. Fenshawe and his granddaughter supplied a valid
excuse for observing a certain secrecy.

To guess the nature of the yacht's mission was more difficult. Any reader of newspapers was
aware that Morocco, Montenegro and Armenia, not to mention the political volcanoes of Finland,
Poland, and Carlist centers in Spain, provided scope for international intrigue even in these
prosaic days. But it was a vain thing to imagine that the Fenshawes would be involved in any
wild-cat scheme of that sort. The natural sequel to this thought was--who were they? and the
nearest Free Library answered promptly:

"Fenshawe, Hiram, C.M.G., 2d Class Osmanieh Hon. Fellow of Caius College, Cambridge, landowner
and colliery proprietor, an enthusiastic Egyptologist, vice-President of Upper Egypt Exploration
Society; has devoted immense sums of money and many years of his life to Egyptian archaeological
research. His private collection of coins, pottery, gold, silver and bronze ornaments, and
other works of art having special reference to the Roman occupation of Egypt, is probably unequaled....
Born at Liverpool, March 20, 1830; married, June 10, 1854. Hilda, daughter of Sir Adolphus
Livingston, Nairn. Only son, Hildebrand, born April 27, 1856; married, December 20, 1880. Irene,
2d daughter of the late Dr. Alfred Stowell, LL.D., Master of Trinity Hall, Cambridge.... Mr.
and Mrs. Hildebrand Fenshawe were lost in the wreck of the P. & O. liner Bokhara, off the Pescadores
Islands, 1892, leaving one daughter, Irene Hildegarde, born February 11, 1882."

The book supplied other details, but Royson obtained from the foregoing extracts a sufficiently
clear idea of the identity of the two people whom he had encountered in the park. Of course,
he set his wits to work instantly to construct new avenues for the promised activity of the
Aphrodite, but, these imaginings being as hopelessly mistaken as are most other human peeps
into futurity, they served only to keep him on tenterhooks until he revisited the outfitters'
establishment. There he was handed the keys of two large steel trunks, canvas-covered, and
requested to assure himself that they contained all the articles set forth on a list. The manager
also gave him a first-class ticket for Marseilles, and a typewritten instruction that he was
to travel by the nine o'clock train from Victoria that evening. On arriving at the French port
he would find the Aphrodite moored in No. 3. Basin, and he was requested not to wear any portion
of his uniform until on board the yacht.

The nature of the arrangements, the prodigal supply of clothing, rather took Dick's breath
away. Even the initials, "R. K.," were painted on the trunks and stitched on to the canvas.

"My employer seems to have done things pretty thoroughly," he could not help saying.

The shopman dug a compliment out of the remark.

"Our house has a reputation to maintain," he answered, "and Mr. Fenshawe is one of our best
and oldest customers."

There was no mention of Count von Kerber, which added a ripple to the wave of astonishment
in Royson's breast. He took his baggage to Charing Cross in a cab, and deposited it there.
Meanwhile, he learned from a further scrutiny of the list that his own few belongings were
hardly wanted. He had not been so well equipped since he left Heidelberg to rush to his mother's
death-bed. Nevertheless, having already gathered in a valise some books, photographs, letters,
and other odds and ends, he went to Brixton to obtain them.

While giving a farewell glance around his dingy room, an old envelope, thrown aside overnight,
reminded him of a half-formed idea, which appealed to him strongly now that he knew his port
of departure.

So he wrote a short letter:

Dear Mr. Forbes:

"You were kind to me four years ago, as kind as Sir Henry Royson would permit you to be towards
one who had wilfully and irreparably insulted him. My feelings with regard to him have undergone
no change. He may be dead, for all I know, or care. But you, I suppose, are still the trusted
solicitor of the Cuddesham estate, and Sir Henry Royson, if alive, may have remained unmarried.
In that event, I am heir to a barren title, and it may save you some trouble if I inform you
that I am leaving England. For reasons of no consequence, I am passing under the name of Richard
King. If I return, or settle down in some other land, I will write to you, say, after the lapse
of a year. Please regard this note as strictly private, and do not interpret it as foreshadowing
any attempt on my part to arrive at a reconciliation with Sir Henry Royson."

He was about to add the briefest announcement of his new career, but he checked himself; had
not von Kerber forbidden the giving of any information?

He signed the letter, and addressed it to the senior partner of a firm of solicitors in Lincoln's
Inn Fields. Then, indeed, he felt that he had snapped the last slender link that bound him
to the dull life of the city. Like Kent, he vowed that "freedom lies hence, and banishment
is here." And he had always hated Brixton, which was unjust to that pleasant suburb, but the
days of his sojourn there had been days of bondage.

He was among the first to secure a seat in the Continental mail. Having registered those superb
trunks through to Marseilles, and reserved a comfortable corner by depositing his valise there,
he strolled up and down the platform, and quietly scrutinized his fellow passengers. So far
as he could judge, none of the earlier arrivals were prospective shipmates. Two bronzed men,
of free gait, with that trick of carrying the hands back to front which singles out the sailor
from the rest of humanity, drew him like a lodestone. But he soon discovered that they were
P. & O. officers, bidding farewell to a friend bound for Egypt.

At last he came upon a man and a woman, a remarkable pair under any circumstances, but specially
interesting to him, seeing that the man gripped an ancient carpet bag on which was pasted a
label with the glaring superscription: "Captain John Stump, yacht Aphrodite, Marsails." The
address was half written, half printed, and the quaintly phonetic spelling of the concluding
word betrayed a rugged independence of thought which was certainly borne out by Captain John
Stump's appearance. The written label might be wrong; not so that stamped by Neptune on a weather-beaten
face and a figure like a capstan. Little more than five feet in height, he seemed to be quite
five feet wide. If it be true that a poet is born, not made, Captain Stump was a master mariner
from his cradle. Royson had never before seen such a man. Drawn out to Royson's stature he
would yet have remained the broader of the two. The lady with him, evidently Mrs. Stump, was
mated for him by happy chance. Short mean usually marry tall women, and your sons of Anak will
select wives of fairy-like proportions. But Mrs. Stump was even shorter than her husband, and
so plump withal, that a tape measure round her shoulders might have given her the prize for girth.

Captain Stump was examining the interior of each carriage suspiciously when he set eyes on
the P. & O. officers.

"Port yer helium, Becky," he growled, and the two turned to the right- about. It happened that
he entered Royson's compartment. There were not many first-class passengers that night, so
Royson promptly took possession of his own corner, lit a pipe, and unobtrusively watched his
future commander. This was not difficult, as Stump stood near the open door, and each word
he uttered was audible.

"Don't want to berth alongside sailor-men to-night, Becky," he said, after sizing up Dick in
a comprehensive glance. "Them's my sailin' orders. 'Hoist no colors,' sez he, 'until you bring
to at Marseilles.'"

"What's your first port of call, John?" asked his wife.

"Dunno. I'll send you a wire."

A pause. Then Mrs. Stump:

"Will you be long in Marseilles, John?"

Dick thought that this would be impossible anywhere, but Stump answered:

"Mebbe half an hour, mebbe a week. You know all that I know, Becky."

"It's funny."

Captain Stump spat, and agreed that it was--emphatically funny. A ticket inspector approached.

"Going on, sir?" he asked.

"Goin' on? Of course I am. What in thunder d'ye think I'm stannin' here for?" demanded the captain.

"But if you stand there, sir, you'll get left," said the official good- humoredly.

"Better get in, John, an' don't argy with the gentleman," said Mrs. Stump.

Her husband obeyed, grudgingly. The inspector examined his ticket, and Royson's, and locked
the door.

"Nice thing!" grumbled Stump. "I can't give you a good-by hug now, Becky."

This was literally true. The captain's breadth of beam had never been contemplated by the designers
of South-Eastern railway carriages. Even when the door was open, he had to enter sideways,
and the brass rail across the window rendered it a physical impossibility to thrust head and
shoulders outside.

The shrill whistle of a guard was answered by a colleague.

"Take care of yourself, John," said Becky.

"No fear! And mind you wait till the 'bus stops to-night. The other evening--"

Royson never learnt what had befallen Mrs. Stump on that other evening. At the moment the train
began to move, he saw a man peeping into the carriage as if he were looking for some one. He
believed it was the private inquiry agent whom he had shaken off so effectively in Hyde Park.
The gloom of the station, and the fact that the man's face was in shadow, made him doubtful,
but as the train gathered speed, the watcher on the platform nodded to him and smiled derisively.
Captain Stump had quick eyes. He turned to Royson.

"Beg pardon, mister, but is that a friend of yours?" he asked.

"No," said Dick.

"Well, he was signalin' somebody, an' it wasn't me."

Then remarking that the unknown craft looked like a curiously-colored pirate, the captain squeezed
himself into a seat. When the train ran into and backed out of Cannon Street, Stump was puzzled.
He opened the carpet-bag, and drew forth a ship's compass, which he consulted. After a few
minutes' rapid traveling his doubts seemed to subside, and he replaced the compass. Producing
a cake of tobacco, he cut off several shavings with an exceedingly sharp knife, rolled them
between his broad palms, filled a pipe, lit it, and whetted the knife on the side of his boot.
Dick noticed that all his actions were wonderfully nimble for a man of his build. Any stranger
who imagined that this squat Hercules was slow and ponderous in movement would be wofully mistaken
if he based hostilities on that presumption.

Perhaps the captain missed the companionship of the stout lady he had parted from at Charing
Cross, or it might be that his gruffness was a matter of habit--at any rate, after a puff or
two, he spoke to Royson again.

"D'ye know wot time we're due at Dover?" he asked.

"Yes, at 10.50."

"We don't stop long there?"

"No. The boat sails ten minutes later."

"Good. I don't cotton on to these blessed trains. Every time they jolt I fancy we're on the
rocks. Give me a ship, an' the steady beat of the screw, sez I. Then I know where I am."

"I quite agree with you, captain, but you must put up with a fair spell of railway bumping
before you reach Marseilles."

Stump gave him a questioning look. Royson did not resemble the type of land shark with which
he was familiar. Yet his eyes gleamed like those of a perplexed bull.

"I s'pose you heard my missus an' me talking of Marseilles," he growled, "but how do you know
I'm a captain."

"It is written on your bag."

"Well, my missus wrote that--"

"Moreover," went on Dick, determined to break the ice, "I'm your second mate."

"Wot?" roared Stump, leaning forward and placing a hand on each knee, while his fiery glance
took in every detail of Royson's appearance. "You--my--second--mate?"

The words formed a crescendo of contemptuous analysis. But Dick faced the storm boldly.

"Yes," he said. "I don't see any harm in stating the fact, now that I know who you are."

"Harm! Who said anything about harm? Wot sort of sailor d'ye call yerself? Who ever heard of
a sailor in knickers?"

Then it dawned on Royson that the captain's wrath was comprehensible. There is in every male
Briton who goes abroad an ingrained instinct that leads him to don a costume usually associated
with a Highland moor. Why this should be no man can tell, but nine out of ten Englishmen cross
the Channel in sporting attire, and Royson was no exception to the rule. In his case a sheer
revolt against the "office" suit had induced him to dress in clothes which recalled one glorious
summer on the Westmoreland hills. Their incongruity did not appeal to him until Captain Stump
forcibly drew attention thereto, and his hearty laugh at the way in which he was enlightened
did not tend to soothe his skipper's indignation.

"Second mate!" bellowed Stump again, calling the heavens to witness that there never was such
another, "Where's yer ticket? Seein' is believin', they say. Who did you go to sea with? When
did you pass?"

"I have no certificate, if that is what you mean, and I have never been to sea," said Royson.

This remark impressed Stump as an exquisite joke. His rage yielded to a rumble of hoarse laughter.

"Lord love a duck!" he guffawed. "If only I'd ha' knowed, I could have told my missus. It would
have cheered her up for a week. Never mind. We've a few minutes in Dover. I'll send her a picture
postcard. It'll 'arf tickle 'er to death."

Evidently the captain meant to add certain explanatory remarks which would account for that
Gargantuan tickling. Dick, anxious not to offend his future commander, smiled sheepishly, and said:

"Sorry I can't supply you with a photograph."

Stump's gaze rested on his stockings, loose breeches, Norfolk jacket and deerstalker cap.

"Damme," he grinned, "it's better than a pantomime. Second mate! Is there any more like you
on the train? P'haps that chap in the next caboose, in a fur coat an' top hat, is the steward.
An' wot'll Tagg say?"

"I don't know," said Dick, half inclined to resent this open scorn. "Who is Tagg, anyhow?"

Stump instantly became silent. He seemed to remember his "sailing orders." He muttered something
about "playin' me for a sucker," and shut his lips obstinately. Not another word did he utter
until they reached Dover. He smoked furiously, gave Royson many a wrathful glance, but bottled
up the tumultuous thoughts which troubled him. On board the steamer, however, curiosity conquered
prudence. After surveying Dick's unusual proportions from several points of view, he came up
and spoke in what he intended to be a light comedy tone.

"I say, Mr. Second Mate," he said, "I don't see the Plimsoll Mark on the funnel. Do you?"

"No, captain. I expect it has been washed off."

"If I was you I'd write to the Board of Trade about it."

"Best let sleeping dogs lie, captain."

"Why?"

"Because they might look for yours, and as it ought to be round your neck they would say you
were unseaworthy."

"So you know what it is, you long swab?"

"Yes. Come and have a drink. That will reach your load-line all right."

Royson had hit on the right method of dealing with Stump. The skipper promised himself some
fun, and they descended to the saloon. The Channel was in boisterous mood, and Dick staggered
once or twice in transit. Stump missed none of this, and became more jovial. Thus might one
of the Hereford stots he resembled approach a green pasture.

"If you ask the steward he'll bring you some belayin' tackle," he said.

"I am a trifle crank just now," admitted Royson, "but when the wind freshens I'll take in a
reef or two."

Stump looked up at him.

"You've put me clean, out of reckonin'. Never bin to sea, you say? Wot's yer name?"

"King, Richard King."

"Damme, I'm comin' to like you. You're a bit of a charak-ter. By the time the Aphrodite points
her nose home again I'll 'ave you licked into shape."

They were crossing the saloon, and were sufficiently noteworthy by force of contrast to draw
many eyes. Indeed, were Baron von Kerber on board, he must have been disagreeably impressed
by the fact that in sending the short skipper and the long second mate of the Aphrodite to
Marseilles in company he had supplied an unfailing means of tracking their movements. Of course,
he was not responsible for the chance that threw them together, but the mere presence of two
such men on the same vessel would be remembered quite easily by those who make it their business
to watch trans-Channel passengers.

Royson gave no thought to this factor in the queer conditions then shaping his life. Had Stump
remained taciturn, it might have occurred to him that they were courting observation. But it
needed the exercise of much resourcefulness to withstand the stream of questions with which
his commander sought to clear the mystery attached to a second mate who knew not the sea. Luckily,
he emerged from the flood with credit; nay, the examiner himself was obliged at times to assume
a knowledge which he did not possess, for, if Stump knew how to con a ship from port to port,
Royson could give reasons for great circle sailing which left Stump gasping. At last, the stout
captain could no longer conceal his amazement when Royson had recited correctly the rules of
the road for steamships crossing:

      If to my Starboard Red appear,
      It is my duty to keep clear;
      Act as Judgment says is proper--
      "Port"--or "Starboard"--"Back"--or "Stop her!"

      But when, upon my Port is seen
      A steamer's Starboard light of green,
      For me there's naught to do, but see
      That Green to Port keeps clear of me.

"Come, now," he growled, "wot's your game? D'ye mean to say you've bin humbuggin' me all this
time?"

His little eyes glared redly from underneath his shaggy eyebrows. He was ready to sulk again,
without hope of reconciliation, so Royson perforce explained.

"I have no objection to telling you, captain, how I came to acquire a good deal of unusual
information about the sea, but I want to stipulate, once and for all, that I shall not be further
questioned as to my past life."

"Go ahead! That's fair."

"Well, I have spent many a day, since I was a boy of ten until I was nearly twenty, sailing
a schooner-rigged yacht on Windermere. My companion and tutor was a retired commander of the
Royal Navy, and he amused himself by teaching me navigation. I learnt it better than any of
the orthodox sciences I had to study at school. You see, that was my hobby, while a wholesome
respect for my skipper led me to work hard. I have not forgotten what I was taught, though
the only stretch of water I have seen during the last few years is the Thames from its bridges,
and I honestly believe that if you will put up with my want of experience of the sea for a
week or so, I shall be quite capable of doing any work you may entrust to me."

"By gad!" said Stump admiringly, "you're a wonder. Come on deck. I'll give you a tip or two
as we go into Calais."

During the journey across France it was natural that Royson should take the lead. He spoke
the language fluently, whereas Stump's vocabulary was limited to a few forcible expressions
he had picked up from brother mariners. There was a break-down on the line near Dijon, which
delayed them eight hours, and Stump might have had apoplexy were not Royson at hand to translate
the curt explanations of railway officials. But the two became good friends, which was an excellent
thing for Dick, and the latter soon discovered, to his great surprise, that Stump had never
set eyes on the Aphrodite.

"No," he said, when some chance remark from Royson had elicited this curious fact, "she's a
stranger to me. Me an' Tagg--Tagg is my first mate, you see--had just left the Chirria when
she was sold to the Germans out of the East Indian trade, an' we was lookin' about for wot
might turn up when the man who chartered the Aphrodite put us on to this job. Tagg has gone
ahead with most of the crew, but I had to stop in London a few days--to see after things a bit."

Stump had really remained behind in order to buy a complete set of charts, but he checked his
confidences at that point, nor did Royson endeavor to probe further into the recent history
of the yacht.

Instead of traversing Marseilles at night, they drove through its picturesque streets in broad
daylight. Both Royson and the captain were delighted with the lines of the Aphrodite when they
saw her in the spacious dock. Her tapering bows and rakish build gave her an appearance of
greater size than her tonnage warranted. Royson was sailor enough to perceive that her masts
and spars were intended for use, and, when he reached her deck, to which much scrubbing and
vigorous holy-stoning had given the color of new bread, he knew that none but men trained on
a warship had coiled each rope and polished every inch of shining brass.

And his heart sank a little then. The looks and carriage of the few sailors visible at the
moment betokened their training. How could he hope to hold his own with them? The first day
at sea must reveal his incompetence. He would be the laughing-stock of the crew.

He was almost nervous when an undersized hairy personage shoved a grinning face up a companionway,
and hailed Stump joyfully. Then the captain did a thing which went far to prove that true gentility
is not a matter of deportment or mincing phrase.

"Keep mum before this crowd," he muttered. "Stand by, and I'll pull you through."

Stump extended a gigantic hand to the hairy one. "Glad to see you again, old Never-fail," he
roared. "Let me introjuice our second mate. Mr. Tagg--Mr. King. An' now, Tagg, wot's for breakfast?
Mr. King an' me can eat a Frenchman if you have nothin' tastier aboard."

Royson was relieved to find that he had practically no duties to perform until the yacht sailed.
She had been coaled and provisioned by a Marseilles firm of shipping agents, and only awaited
telegraphic orders to get up steam, in case the wind were unfavorable for beating down the
Gulf of Lions, when Mr. Fenshawe and his party arrived.

Every member of the crew was of British birth, and Britons are not, as a rule, endowed with
the gift of tongues. Hence, Royson was the only man on board who spoke French, and this fact
led directly to his active participation in the second act of the drama of love and death in
which, all unconsciously, he was playing a leading part. On the day after his arrival in the
French port, the head partner of the firm of local agents came on board and explained that,
by inadvertence, some cases of claret of inferior vintage had been substituted for the wine
ordered. The mistake had been discovered in the counting-house, and he was all apologies.

Royson and he chatted together while the goods were being exchanged, and, in the end, the polite
Frenchman invited messieurs les officiers to dine with him, and visit the Palais de Glace,
where some daring young lady was announced to do things in a motor-car, which, in England,
are only attempted by motor omnibuses.

Stump, who would not leave the yacht, permitted Tagg and Royson to accept the proffered civility.
They passed a pleasant evening, and saw the female acrobat negotiate a thirty-feet jump, head
downward, taken through space by the automobile. Then they elected to walk to No. 3. Basin,
a distance of a mile and a half. It was about eleven o'clock and a fine night. The docks road,
a thoroughfare cut up by railway lines holding long rows of empty wagons, seemed to be quite
deserted. Tagg, who was slightly lame, though active as a cat on board ship, was not able to
walk fast. The two discussed the performance, and other matters of slight interest, and they
paid little heed to the movements of half a dozen men, who appeared from behind some coal trucks,
until the strangers advanced towards them in a furtive and threatening way. But nothing happened.
The prowlers sheered off as quickly as they came. Tagg, who had the courage which Providence
sends to puny men, glanced up at Royson and laughed.

"Your size saved us from a fight," he said. "That gang is up to mischief."

"I wonder what they are planning," said Royson, looking back to see if he could distinguish
any other wayfarers on the ill-lighted road.

"Robbery, with murder thrown in," was Tagg's brief comment.

"They had the air of expecting somebody. Did you think that? What do you say if we wait in
the shadow a few minutes?"

"Better mind our own business," said Tagg, but he did not protest further, and the two halted
in the gloom of a huge warehouse.

There was nothing visible along the straight vista of the road, but, after a few seconds' silence,
they heard the clatter and rumble of a vehicle crossing a distant drawbridge.

"Some skipper comin' to his ship," muttered Tagg. "It can't be ours. By George, if those chaps
tackled him they would be sorry for themselves."

"Captain Stump is a good man in a row, I take it?"

"'Good' isn't the word. He's a terror. I've seen him get six of his men out of a San Francisco
crimp's house, an' I s'pose you 'aven't bin to sea without knowing wot that means."

"Ah!" said Royson admiringly. He had found safety many times during the past two days by some
such brief comment. Thus did he steer clear of conversational rocks.

The carriage drew nearer, and became dimly visible--it was one of the tiny voiturettes peculiar
to French towns. Suddenly the listeners heard a shout. The horse's feet ceased their regular
beat on the roadway. Royson began to run, but Tagg vociferated:

"Wait for me, you long ijiot! If you turn up alone they'll knife you before you can say 'Jack
Robinson.'"

Dick had no intention of saying "Jack Robinson," but he moderated his pace, and helped Tagg
over the ground by grasping his arm. They soon saw that two men had pulled the driver off the
box, and were holding him down--indeed, tying him hand and foot. Royson prevented the success
of this operation by a running kick and an upper cut which placed two Marseillais out of action.
Then he essayed to plunge into a fearsome struggle that was going on inside the carriage. Frantic
oaths in German and Italian lent peculiar significance to a flourishing of naked knives. But
that which stirred the blood in his veins was his recognition of Baron von Kerber's high-pitched
voice, alternately cursing and pleading for life to assailants who evidently meant to show
scant mercy. One man who, out of the tail of his eye, had witnessed Dick's discomfiture of
the coachman's captors, drew a revolver, a weapon not meant for show, as its six loaded chambers
proved when Dick picked it up subsequently.

Royson had no love of unnecessary risk. Stooping quickly, he grasped the hub of the off front
wheel, and, just varying the trick which saved Miss Fenshawe in Buckingham Palace Road, threw
the small vehicle over on its side. No doubt the patient animal in the shafts wondered what
was happening, but the five struggling men in the interior were even more surprised when they
were pitched violently into the road.

Royson sprang into the midst of them, found von Kerber, and said:

"You're all right now, Baron. We can whip the heads off these rascals."

The sound of his English tongue seemed to take all the fight out of the remaining warriors.
Tagg had closed valiantly with one, and the others made off. Von Kerber rose to his feet, so
Royson went to Tagg's assistance. He heard the Baron shriek, in a falsetto of rage:

"You may have recovered the papyrus, Alfieri, but it is of no value to you. Name of an Italian
dog! I have outwitted you even now!"

While kneeling to pinion the footpad's arms behind his back, thus rescuing Tagg from a professor
of the savate, Dick tried to guess von Kerber's motive in hurling such an extraordinary taunt
after one of his runaway adversaries, and in French, too, whereas the other had an Italian
name, and, in all likelihood, spoke only Italian. Was this Alfieri the man who "hated" von
Kerber--who "brought a very serious charge" against him? But Royson was given no time for consecutive
thought. The Baron, breathing heavily, and seemingly in pain, came to him and said, in the
low tone of one who does not wish to be overheard:

"Let your prisoner go, Mr. King. I am all right, and everlastingly obliged to you, but I do
not wish to be detained in Marseilles while the slow French law gets to work. So let him go.
He is nothing--a mere hireling, yes? And we sail to-morrow."

CHAPTER IV

VON KERBER EXPLAINS

"You've left your trademark on this chap," broke in Tagg. He was bending over a prostrate body,
and the cab-driver was bewailing the plight of his voiturette.

Royson righted the carriage; then he lifted the man to a sitting position, and listened to
his stertorous breathing. The blow had been delivered on that facial angle known to boxers
as the "point," while its scientific sequel is the "knock-out."

"He is all right," was the cool verdict. "He will wake up soon and feel rather sick. The general
effect will be excellent. In future he will have a wholesome respect for British sailors."

He laid the almost insensible form on the road again, pocketed the revolver, which he found
close at hand, and gave an ear to von Kerber's settlement with the cocher. The latter was now
volubly indignant in the assessment of damages to his vehicle, hoping to obtain a louis as
compensation. When he was given a hundred francs his gratitude became almost incoherent.

The Baron cut him short, stipulating sternly that he must forget what had happened. Then he
turned to Royson.

"If you think we can leave the fellow on the ground with safety, I want to reach the yacht,"
he said.

"Are you wounded?" inquired Dick.

"Slightly. Those scoundrels did not dare to strike home. They knew my papers would identify them."

"But they robbed you?"

"No, not of anything valuable. Why do you ask?"

"Because you sang out to one of them, an Italian, I should judge--"

"Ah, you heard that? You are, indeed, quick in an emergency. Can we go on, yes?"

"Certainly. I will just lift our dazed friend into the victoria, and tell the cocher to give
him a glass of cognac at the first cafe he comes to."

This was done. Five minutes later, the first and second officers of the Aphrodite assisted
their employer up the yacht's gangway. Leaving Tagg to explain to Stump what had happened,
Royson took von Kerber to his cabin, and helped to remove his outer clothing. A superficial
wound on the neck, and a somewhat deeper cut on the right forearm, were the only injuries;
the contents of a medicine chest, applied under von Kerber's directions, soon staunched the
flow of blood.

"I do not wish anything to be said about this affair," began the Baron, when Royson would have
left him.

"Tagg must have given the captain full details already," said Dick.

"But did he hear that name, Alfieri?"

"I think not."

"And he would not understand, about the--er--document?"

"The papyrus," suggested Royson.

"Yes."

"No. I don't suppose he would understand the word In English, whereas you spoke French."

"Ah, yes, of course. Well, that is between you and me. Will you ask Captain Stump and Mr. Tagg
to join as in a bottle of wine? I would put matters in my own way, yes?"

The Baron, after a slight hesitancy, made his wishes clear. Mr. Fenshawe and his party would
arrive at Marseilles by the train de luxe next morning, and preparations must be made for instant
departure as soon as they came on board. They would be alarmed needlessly if told of the affray
on the quay, so it was advisable that nothing should be said about it.

"You see," purred the Baron affably, refilling the glasses which Stump and Tagg had emptied
at a gulp, "ladies, especially young ones, are apt to be nervous."

"Have we wimmen aboard this trip?" growled Stump in a deep rumble of disapproval.

"Ladies, yes. Two, and a maid."

Stump bore round on his chief.

"Wot did I tell ye, Tagg?" he demanded fiercely, "Didn't I say that them fixins aft meant no good?"

"You did," agreed Tagg, with equal asperity.

Von Kerber caught the laughter in Dick's eyes, and checked the angry protest ready to bubble forth.

"The two ladies," he said, speaking with an emphasis which strove to cloak his annoyance at
Stump's offhanded manner, "are Miss Fenshawe, granddaughter of the gentleman who owns this
yacht, and her companion, Mrs. Haxton. Without their presence this trip would not have been
undertaken, and that fact had better be recognized at the outset. But now, gentlemen, I have
come on ahead to have a quiet talk with you. Captain Stump knows our destination, but none
of you is aware of the object of our voyage. I propose to take you fully into my confidence
in that respect. By this time, you have become more or less acquainted with the crew, and,
if you think any of the men are unsuitable, we must get rid of them at once."

He paused, and looked at Stump. That broad-beamed navigator emptied his glass again, and gazed
into it fixedly, apparently wondering why champagne was so volatile a thing. Tagg followed
the skipper's example, but fixed his eyes on the bottle, perhaps in calculation. Royson, deeming
it wise to hold his tongue, contented himself with closing the medicine chest, and thus making
it possible for von Kerber to sit down.

The latter was obviously ill at ease. Although he was the master of these three men, he was
their inferior in individual strength of character. But he was a polished man of the world,
and he promptly extricated himself from a difficult position, though Royson, at least, detected
the effort he was compelled to make.

"I see you are thinking that one bottle does not go far among four of us, Mr. Tagg," he exclaimed,
with a pleasantly patronizing air. "Kindly tell the steward to bring another, Mr. King. And
some cigars. Then we can discuss matters at our ease. And will you make sure that we are not
overheard? What I have to say is meant for the ship's officers alone at this moment, though,
when the time for action comes, every man on board must be with us absolutely."

Dick summoned the steward, and ascertained that the watch were quietly chatting and smoking
forward, whereas the Baron's stateroom was situated aft. The delay enabled von Kerber to collect
his thoughts. When he resumed the promised disclosure, his voice was under control, and he
spoke with less constraint.

"It is probable that you gentlemen are not familiar with the history of Egypt," he said, "but
you may take it from me that the facts I now lay before you are accurate. At one time, about
the beginning of the Christian era, the Romans were all-powerful in the Nile delta. They pushed
their stations a long way south, almost to the borders of Abyssinia, but it is important, to
remember that they followed the lines of the river, not the sea. In the year 24 B.C., the Roman
Governor, hearing of the great wealth of a people called the Sabaeans, whose country lay in
Arabia, in the hinterland of Mocha and Aden, sent an expedition there under the command of
Aelius Gallus. This legion is historically reported to have met with reverses. That is true,
in the sense that its galleys were beset by a terrible storm on the return voyage. Though the
Red Sea is usually a fair-weather lake, you can have a stiff blow there at times, I believe,
Captain Stump?"

Thus appealed to, Stump had to open his mouth.

"I've known it blow like sin," he said. "Isn't that so, Tagg?"

"Wuss nor sin, cap'n. Ord'nary manslaughter isn't in it with a nor'- east gale on a dark night
off them islands north o' Perim."

"Exactly," agreed the Baron eagerly. "That is where the Roman triremes were caught. They were
driven ashore in a little bay in what is now Italian territory. Their vessels were wrecked,
but they saved the loot they had taken from the Sabaeans. The nature and value of that loss
can hardly be estimated in these days, but you can draw your own conclusions when you learn
that the city of Saba is more familiar to us under its Biblical name, Sheba. It was thence
that the famous queen came who visited Solomon. Nearly a thousand years later, when the Roman
legion sacked it with fire and sword, it was at the height of its glory."

Von Kerber, fairly launched in a recital glib on his lips, regained the dominance of manner
which the attitude of his subordinates had momentarily imperiled. Increased composure brought
with it a certain hauteur, and he paused again--perhaps to gratify the actor's instinct in
him rather than observe the effect of his words. But the break was unfortunate. Tagg removed
the cigar he was half chewing, half smoking, and said oracularly:

"The Queen o Sheba! I once knew a ship o' that name. D'ye remember her, cap'n?"

"Shall I ever forgit 'er?" granted Stump, "I wish them Romans had looted her. W'en I was goin'
down the Hooghly, she was comin' up, in tow. Her rope snapped at the wrong moment, an' she
ran me on top of the James an' Mary shoal. Remember 'er, damn 'er!"

The Austrian, winced at this check to his story. These stolid mariners had no imagination.
He wished to enthuse them, to fire them with the vision of countless wealth, but they had side-tracked
ideality for some stupid reminiscence of a collision. In a word, they did him good, and he
reached the point of his narration all the more speedily.

"As I was saying," he broke in rapidly, "the expedition met with disaster by sea. It was equally
unfortunate on land. The commander built a small encampment, and sent for assistance the only
seaworthy vessel left to him. He waited six months, but no help came. Then he determined to
march inland--to strike a bold course for the Nile--but he was soon compelled to entrench himself
against the attacks of hostile tribes. The probability is that the Sabaeans had interests on
the western shores of the Red Sea as well as in Arabia. Indeed, the Abyssinians hold the belief
to this day that their kings are descended from a son of the Queen of Sheba and Solomon. However
that may be, Aelius Gallus buried his treasure, threw aside all useless impediments, and, like
the daring soldier he was, decided in favor of attack. He fought his way for twenty marches,
but was finally overthrown, with all his men, by a Nubian clan. The Romans were slain without
mercy. Their conquerors knew nothing of the gold and jewels hidden in the desert three hundred
miles distant, and that marvelous hoard, gathered from Persia and India by generations of traders,
has lain there for nearly two thousand years."

This time he was sure he had riveted the attention of his hearers. They would have been dull,
indeed, if their wits were not stirred by the possibilities underlying that last sentence.
Royson, of course, jumped to conclusions which the others were slow to reach. But Stump was
not backward in summing up the facts in his own way.

"Am I right in supposin' that you know where this stuff is hid, Mr. von Kerber?" he asked,
his small eyes twinkling under the strain of continuous thought.

"Yes."

"Are you positive?"

"Yes."

"Does anybody else know?"

Royson felt that the Baron did not expect this question, but the answer came promptly:

"Mr. Fenshawe knows, and the two ladies who accompany him have a species of general knowledge."

"If I took c'rect bearin's, accordin' to your yarn the cargo is planted some distance from
the coast?"

"About forty miles."

"An', while some of us goes after it, the yacht will stand off, an' on, waitin' orders, an'
mebbe runnin' to Perim or Aden for letters."

"You have grasped the situation, exactly, Captain Stump."

The skipper shifted his cigar from one corner of his mouth to another.

"Sink me," he growled, "I thought it couldn't be gun-runnin' when there was wimmin mixed up
in it. Didn't I say so, Tagg?"

"You did," agreed Tagg again.

"Gun-running!" repeated von Kerber, "You mean carrying contraband arms, yes? What put that
into your head?"

"I've not bin cap'n of a ship nigh on fifteen years without larnin' the importance of knowin'
wot she's loaded with," said Stump. "Big or little, in package or bulk, I go through her manifest,
an' cheek, it, too."

The Baron laughed softly. He was pale, probably as the result' of his wounds, but he was inflexible
in his resolve to arrive at an understanding with his lieutenants before the remaining passengers
put in an appearance.

"Ganz gut, herr capitan!" he cried. "You must have seen our supply of firearms and cartridges,
yes?"

"Twenty rifles, twenty-five revolvers, an' enough ammunition to fight a small war." Stamp ticked
off each item slowly and looked at Tagg as though he expected him to cry "Tally!"

"Ah! That is well put, yes? If we are called on to fight a small war, as you say, have we got
the right sort of men on board? I had to trust to chance. It was the only way. I could not
talk plainly in England, you see."

"I don't know much about 'em," said Stump. "I can answer for myself an' Tagg, an' from wot
I hear, Mr. King has a heart of the right size. As for the others, I'll run the rule over 'em
between here an' Port Said. If I have any doubts about one or two, we can ship 'em home on
a P. an' O. But, from the cut of their jibs, most of 'em are deserters from the Royal Navy,
an' the remainder are army reserve men. That sort of crowd is pretty tough, eh, Tagg?"

"Tough!" echoed Tagg. "If they're 'lowed to eat three solid meals every day like the Lord Mayor's
banquets they've put out o' sight since they kem aboard, there'll be no holdin' 'em."

"Oh, yes, there will. I'll hold 'em," said Stump.

"And you approve of my reticence thus far?" asked the Baron.

"Of your wot, mister?"

"I mean, that it was wise not to tell them the object of the voyage."

"Take my advice an' tell 'em nothin'. Wait till they're frizzlin' in the Red Sea, an' I've
worked some of the grease out of 'em. By that time, wot between prickly heat an' high livin',
they'll be ready to kill any Gord's quantity of I-talians."

"Italians!" snapped von Kerber irritably, "Why do you speak of Italians?"

"It's your fairy-tale, mister, not mine. You said that wot's 'is name, the Roman who went through
the Shebeens, had planted his takin's in I- talian territory."

"Ah!" The Austrian gasped a little, and his pallor increased. "That is of no consequence--the
place--is a desert--we shall meet with no interference."

Then Royson spoke. Hitherto, he had taken no share in the conversation, but he saw that von.
Kerber was unable to withstand any further strain. The man was bearing up gallantly, yet he
had reached the limit of endurance, and the trouble, whatever it was, seemed to be wearing
his very soul.

"Neither Captain Stump nor Mr. Tagg knows that you are wounded, sir," said Dick. "Perhaps it
would, be advisable to defer our talk until the morning."

Von Kerber shaded his face with his hands.

"I cannot add much to what I have said already," he answered. "I think you understand me, I
want silence--and good service. Give me these and I shall repay you tenfold."

They went on deck. Stump dug Royson n the ribs.

"It would ha' done me a treat to see you upper cut that Frog," he whispered, his mouth widening
in a grin. "I'm good at a straight punch myself, but I'm too short for a swing. Lord love a
duck, I wish I'd bin there."

So the burly skipper of the Aphrodite paid slight heed to the wonders half revealed by von
Kerber's story. He had been stirred but for a moment when the project was laid bare. Already
his mind was rejecting it. The only matter that concerned him was to bring his ship to her
destination in a seaman-like manner, and let who would perplex their brains with fantasy. Indeed,
he was beginning to regard the Baron as a harmless lunatic, whom Providence had entrusted with
the spending of a rich man's money for the special benefit of the seafaring community.

"A straight punch!" he repeated, gazing with a species of solemn joy at the men leaning against
the rails forward. "They're a hard-bitten lot from wot I've seen of 'em, an' they'll have to
have it before they're at sea with me very long. Won't they, Tagg?"

"They will," said. Tagg, eying the unconscious watch with equal fixity.

Dick went to his cabin firm in the belief that he would lie awake half the night. But his brain
soon refused to bother itself with problems which time might solve in a manner not yet conceivable,
and he slept soundly until he was roused at an early hour. Day dawned bright and clear. A pleasant
northwesterly breeze swept the smoke haze from off the town and kissed the blue waters of the
land-locked harbor into white-crested wavelets. He took the morning watch, from four o'clock
until eight, and all he had to do was to make sure that the men tried to whiten decks already
spotless, and cleaned brass which shone in the sun the instant that luminary peeped over the
shoulder of Notre Dame de la Garde. Although the Aphrodite lay inside the mole, her bridge
and promenade deck were high enough to permit him to see the rocky islet crowned by the Chateau
d'If. He knew that the hero of Dumas' masterpiece had burrowed a tunnel out of that grim prison,
to swim ashore an outcast, a man with a price on his head, yet bearing with him the precious
paper whose secret should make him the fabulously rich Count of Monte Christo. It was only
a soul-stirring romance, a dim legend transformed into vivid life by the genius of the inspired
quadroon. But its extraordinary appositeness to the Aphrodite's quest suddenly occurred to
the young Englishman watching the sunlit isle. He was startled at the thought, especially when
he contrasted his present condition with his depressed awakening in Brixton five days earlier.
Then he laughed, and a sailor, busily engaged in polishing the glass front of the wheel-house,
followed the direction of his gaze and half interpreted his daydream.

"It's a bit of a change from the West India Dock Road, ain't it, sir?" he asked.

Royson agreed with him, and the two conversed a while, but when the man led the chat round
to the probable destination of the yacht, the second mate's thoughts fell from romance to reality.

"You will be told soon enough where we're bound for," he answered sharply.

"I'm sorry, sir, if I've said anything I shouldn't," said the other. "But the chaps forrard
made out that there's a bit of a mystery in it, an' I argied they was talkin' nonsense."

"You were quite right. The owner and a party of ladies will be on board to-day, and then you
will find out our destination."

"Ladies, you say, sir? That settles it. This is no Riff pirates job, then?"

Royson turned on his heel. So others, as well as Captain Stump, had drawn conclusions from
those boxes of arms and ammunition? If Baron Franz von Kerber deemed it necessary to provide
a warlike equipment, how could he permit an elderly gentleman like Mr. Fenshawe, and a charming
girl like Irene, to say nothing of others yet unknown to Royson, to share in the risk of a
venture demanding such safeguards? That was a puzzle, but it disturbed Dick not a whit. Somehow,
the mention of the desert and its secret hoard had stirred him strangely. It seemed to touch
unknown springs in his being. He felt the call of the far-flung solitude, and his heart was
glad that fortune had bound up his lot with that of the winsome woman who smiled on him so
graciously when they parted in Hyde Park.

Then a steward announced breakfast, and the mirage vanished. Captain Stump's greeting showed
that his slumbers had not been disturbed by golden visions.

"Mornin'," he said. "I've just bin tellin' Tagg." Seeing that his second officer was not enlightened
by this remark he went on:

"You'll want his help if I'm not alongside. Bless your 'eart, you can depend on Tagg. He'll
never give you away. He thinks the world of you already."

The reminder was useful, though not in the sense intended, by Stamp. It brought Royson back
to earth. He felt that he must justify himself if he would win his way among these rough sea-dogs.
Hence, when a railway omnibus lumbered along the quay, and pulled up in front of the yacht's
gangway, he remembered that he was Mr. King, probationary second mate on a small vessel, and
not Richard Royson, heir to a baronetcy and rightful successor to an estate with a rent-roll
of five thousand a year.

Mr. Fenshawe, exceedingly alert for one of his age, helped two ladies to alight. The first
was Irene. Her admiring glance at the Aphrodite, no less than an exclamation of delighted interest,
revealed that she, too, like everyone else, was a stranger to the ship. She was followed by
a pretty woman, whose clothes and furs were of a fashion which told even a mere man that she
was a person of consequence. This was Mrs. Haxton, and her first action caused Dick to dislike
her, because she deliberately turned her back on the smart yacht, and gave heed only to the
safe lowering of certain trunks from the roof of the omnibus. He heard the manner of her speech
to a neatly dressed maid and its languid insolence did not help to dissipate that unfavorable
impression.

Miss Fenshawe ran along the gangway. Royson had stationed a sailor at the shoreward end, while
he held the rail to steady it on deck.

"Good morning, Mr. King," she cried. "Has not Baron von Kerber arrived?"

"Yes," he said. "He came aboard late last night."

"Then why is he not here to meet us?"

"I believe he is fatigued after the long journey, Miss Fenshawe."

"Fatigued! Fiddlesticks! Look at my grandfather. Is he fatigued? And we have traveled over
the same route. But I will deal with the lie-abed Baron when I see him. What a nice boat the
Aphrodite is. I am in love with her already. And is that Captain Stump? Good morning, captain.
I have heard about you. Baron von Kerber says you will bite my head off if I come on the bridge.
Is that true?"

"Shows how little Mr. von Kerber reely knows about me, ma'am," said Stump gallantly, beaming
on her over the rail of the small upper deck.

By this time, Mrs. Haxton had satisfied herself that the Aphrodite's crew might be trusted
to bring her boxes on board without smashing them, and she gathered her skirts carefully to
keep them clear of the quay. She raised a lorgnon, mounted on a tortoise-shell and silver handle,
and examined the yacht with measured glance. She honored the stalwart second officer with a
prolonged stare.

"Is that the captain?" she said to Mr. Fenshawe, who was waiting to escort her on board.

"No. That is Mr. King, the young man Irene told you about."

"Oh, indeed! Rather an Apollo Belvidere, don't you think?"

"He seems to be a nice young fellow, quite well-mannered, and that sort of thing. And it imposes
somewhat of a strain on the imagination to picture him in the scant attire popular at Delphi."

Mr. Fenshawe was not without a dry humor, but Mrs. Haxton was pleased to be amused.

"What a light-hearted creature you are!" she cried, "I envy you your high spirits. Personally,
I feel utterly downcast at the prospect of a sea voyage. It always blows a mistral, or some
other horrid thing, when I cross the Mediterranean. Are you sure that little bridge won't move
the instant I step on it? I have quite an aversion to such jim-crack appliances."

Mrs. Haxton's timidity did not prevent her from noting the arrival of a telegraph messenger
on a bicycle. He was reading the name of the yacht when she said:

"Come here, boy. Have you a telegram for me?"

She used excellent French, and the messenger handed her the small blue envelope he was carrying.
The lady dropped her eyeglasses, and scanned the address quickly before she read it aloud.

"Richard Royson, British Yacht Aphrodite, Marseilles," she announced, after a moment's pause.

"Who is Richard Royson?" she went on, looking from Mr. Fenshawe to the nearest officer of the
ship, who happened to be Royson himself.

The incident was so unexpected that Dick reddened and hesitated. Yet he saw no reason why he
should not proclaim himself.

"That message is meant for me, madam," he said.

"For you? But Mr. Fenshawe has just said that your name is King?" "Baron von Kerber bestowed
that name on me, but he acted under a misapprehension. My name is Royson."

"How odd! How excessively odd!"

Mrs. Haxton seemed to forget her fear of the gangway. Advancing with sure and easy tread she
gave Dick his telegram. And he was conscious, during one unhappy minute, that Irene, and Captain
Stump, and Mr. Fenshawe, each in varying degree, shared Mrs. Haxton's opinion as to the exceeding
oddity of the fact that any one should be masquerading on board the Aphrodite under an assumed
name.

CHAPTER V

MISS FENSHAWE SEEKS AN ALLY

Royson was not in the least nonplussed by this recurrence of a dilemma for which he was not
responsible. Von Kerber, of course, could have extricated him with a word, but von Kerber,
for reasons of his own, remained, invisible. So Dick threw his head back in a characteristic
way which people soon learnt to associate with a stubborn resolve to see a crisis through to
the end. He ignored Mrs. Haxton, and spoke to the captain.

"I am glad the question of my right name has been raised," he said. "When Baron von Kerber
comes on deck I shall ask him to settle the matter once and for all."

"Just so," said Stump, "I would if I was you."

"The really important thing is the whereabouts of our cabins," interrupted Mrs. Haxton's clear
drawl.

"Take the ladies aft,--Mr. Royson,--an' let 'em choose their quarters," directed Stump curtly.

Dick would have obeyed in silence had not Miss Fenshawe thought fit to help him. She had found
Mrs. Haxton's airs somewhat tiresome during the long journey from London, and she saw no reason
why that lady should be so ready to bring a hornet's nest about Royson's ears.

"We are not in such a desperate hurry to bestow our belongings that you cannot read your telegram,"
she said to Dick. Then she favored Stump with a frank smile. "I know you mean to start almost
immediately, captain, and it is possible that Mr. Royson may wish to send an answer before
we leave Marseilles. You won't be angry if he waits one moment before he shows us to our staterooms?"

"Not at all, miss," said the skipper, "he's at your service. I can do without him--easy."

Stump was angry with Dick, and did not hesitate to show it. A blunt man, of plain speech, he
resented anything in the nature of double- dealing. Royson's remarkable proficiency in most
matters bearing on the navigation of a ship had amazed him in the first instance, and this
juggling with names led him to suspect some deep-laid villainy with which the midnight attack
on von Kerber was not wholly unconnected.

But the person most taken aback by Irene's self-assertion was Mrs. Haxton. A firm attitude
on the girl's part came as an unpleasing novelty. An imperious light leaped to her eyes, but
she checked the words which might have changed a trivial incident into a sharp tussle for supremacy.

"I am sorry," she said quietly. "Telegrams are important things, sometimes. And the messenger
is waiting, too."

Thus, under the fire of many eyes, Royson tore open the petit bleu, and read its typewritten
contents. The words were brief, but sufficiently bewildering:

"Better return to England forthwith. I undertake full responsibility for advice, and guarantee
you against loss, Forbes."

"Forbes," undoubtedly, was his uncle's solicitor. But how was it possible that he should have
discovered the name of the yacht and her port of departure? And why did he, a methodical old
lawyer, not only disobey his client's strict injunctions that no help or assistance of any
sort was to be given to a rebellious nephew, but ignore Dick's own wishes, and address him
as Royson, not as King?

There were twenty questions which might be asked, but staring at the flimsy bit of paper, with
its jerky lettering, would not answer any of them. And the issue called for instant decision.
Already, in obedience to a signal from Stump, men were standing by the fixed capstans on the
mole ready to cast off the yacht's hawsers. Perhaps Sir Henry Royson was dying? Even in that
unlikely event, of what avail was a title with nothing a year? Certainly, the solicitor's cautious
telegram might be construed into an offer of financial aid. That reading implied a more cheerful
view than he had taken hitherto of his prospects with regard to the Cuddesham estate. Yet,
the only way in which he could meet Mr. Forbes's wishes was to spring ashore then and there,
if such a proceeding were practicable, and abandon the adventure whose strange by-ways were
already opening up before his mind's eye.

Then Irene said sympathetically:

"I hope you have not received any bad news, Mr.--Royson."

The captain's pause before addressing him by his real name was intended to be ironical. Not
so the girl's hesitancy. Interpreting Dick's mood with her woman's intuition, she felt that
he wished to drop any subterfuge now, no matter what his motive might have been in adopting
one hitherto.

Her voice broke the spell which the telegram, with its curious phrasing, had cast on him.

"No, Miss Fenshawe, not bad news, certainly. Indeed, it was the absence of any sort of news
that troubled me for a moment. Chasseur!"

"Oui, m'sieu'," and the messenger raised his hat.

"Voila!" Dick threw him a franc. "Il n'a pas de reponse."

"Merci bien, m'sieu'."

That spinning of a coin through the air showed that Royson had made up his mind. He had tossed
with Fortune, and cared not who won.

The messenger drew away from the gangway, and entered into a conversation with the driver of
the omnibus. Stump nodded to a man on the quay. The forward mooring rope was cleared, and fell
into the water with a loud splash. Two sailors ran the gangway on board. An electric bell jarred
in the engine-room, and the screw revolved, while the rattle of the steering chains showed
that the helm was put hard a-port. When the Aphrodite moved slowly astern, her bow swung towards
the mouth of the dock. The indicator rang again, twice, and the yacht, after a pause, began
to forge ahead. Another splash, and the second hawser was cast loose. The mole, the neighboring
ships, the landward quays and the warehouses thereon, seemed to diminish in size without any
perceptible cause, and, in a space of time that might have been measured by seconds rather
than minutes, the Aphrodite was throbbing southward.

Mrs. Haxton, whose eagerness to inspect her stateroom had gone, was hailed pleasantly by Irene.

"Now, because I asked you to wait, you shall have first choice," she said, "Lead on, Mr. Royson.
Let us see our dens."

But Baron von Kerber came running along the deck, all smiles and welcoming words, and it was
evident that some reason other than physical unfitness had kept him out of sight until the
yacht's voyage was actually commenced. Dick heard him explaining coolly that he had met with
a slight accident on arriving at Marseilles overnight. Some difficulty in dressing, he said,
combined with the phenomenal punctuality of the train de luxe, accounted for his tardy appearance,
but the ladies would find that the steward had everything in readiness, and Mr. Fenshawe was
too experienced a voyageur not to make himself at home instantly. Rattling on thus agreeably,
he led the way aft.

In the midst of his explanations, he saw that Dick was accompanying the party, and told him,
rather abruptly, that his services were not required. In no amiable mood, therefore, the second
officer went to the upper deck, where the skipper was growling his views to Tagg about the
mysterious incident of the telegram. It was a moment of tension, and something might have been
said that would tend to place Royson and the captain at arm's length if the Aphrodite had not
taken it into her head to emulate Miss Fenshawe's action by coming to Dick's assistance. The
little vessel remembered that which Stump paid small heed to, and asserted herself.

Notwithstanding her half-deck saloon, with the tiny chart-house perched thereon, and the narrow
bridge that gave her a steamer-like aspect, she was rigged as a topsail schooner, her sharp
lines and consequent extra length affording full play to her fore-and-aft sails. Her first
owner had designed her with set purpose. It was his hobby to remain in out- of-the-way parts
of the world for years at a time, visiting savage lands where coal was not procurable, and
he trusted more to sails than to engine-power. But Stump, and his chief officer, and nearly
every sailor on board, being accustomed to steam, despised windjammers, and pinned their faith
to the engines.

With a favorable wind such as was blowing at the moment, or to steady the yacht in a cross
sea, the captain would have set a foresail and jib. To help the propeller was good seamanship,
but to bank the engine- room fires and depend wholly on sails was the last thing he would think
of. Hence, the Aphrodite straightway taught him a sharp lesson. While Stump was ruminating
on the exact, form of some scathing remark for Royson's benefit, a sudden stoppage of the screw,
and an ominously easy roll over the crest of the next sea, showed that the engines were idle.

Stump hurled a lurid question down the speaking-tube. The engineer's equally emphatic reply
told him that there was a breakdown, cause not stated. Now, the outer roadstead of Marseilles
harbor is one of the most awkward places in the Mediterranean for a disabled vessel. Though
the Gulf of Lions is almost tideless, it has strong and treacherous currents. The configuration
of the rocky coast, guarded as it is by small islands and sunken reefs, does not allow much
seaway until a lighthouse, some miles distant from the mainland, is passed. Stump, of course,
would have made use of the ship's sails before she drifted into peril. But he was purple with
wrath, and the necessary commands were not familiar to his tongue.

Therefore, he hesitated, though he was far from remaining silent, and Royson, never at a loss
when rapidity of thought and action was demanded, took the lead. He woke up the crew with a
string of orders, rushed from foremast to mainmast and back to the bows again to see that the
men hauled the right ropes and set the sails in the right way, and, had the Aphrodite bowling
along under canvas in less than two minutes after the stopping of the screw. Not until every
sheet was drawing and the yacht running free did it occur to him that he had dared to assume
unto himself the captain's prerogative.

Rather red-faced and breathless, not only from his own exertions but by reason of the disconcerting
notion which possessed him, he raced up the short companion-ladder leading from the fore deck
to the bridge. Stump seemed to be awaiting him with a halter.

"I hope I did right, sir, in jumping in like that," gasped Dick. "I thought it best to get
steering way on the yacht without delay, and--"

"Wot's yer name now?" roared Stump, glowering at him in a manner which led Dick to believe
he had committed an unpardonable offense.

"Still the same, sir--Royson."

"I thought p'raps it might ha' bin Smith, as you're such a lightnin' change artist. Just bung
in to the engine-room, will you, an' find out wot that son of a gun below there is a-doing of?"

"I will go if you like, sir, but I know nothing about engines."

"Take charge here, then. Keep her steady as she goes. You've a clear course half a mile to
westward of that light."

Stump disappeared, and Royson found himself entrusted with full charge of the vessel ere she
had been ten minutes at sea. His gruff commander could have paid him no greater compliment.

In the engineer, a man from West Hartlepool, the captain met one who spoke the vernacular.

"It's no good a-dammin' me because there's a flaw in a connectin' rod," he protested, when
Stamp's strenuous questioning allowed him to explain matters. "I can't see inside a piece of
crimson steel any more'n you can."

"None of your lip, my lad, or I'll find flaws all over you, P. D. Q. Can you fix this mess
at sea, or must we put back?"

The engineer quailed under Stump's bovine eye.

"It would be better to put back, sir. I may be able to manage, but it's doubtful."

Stump went aft to consult von Kerber. So speedily had the yacht's mishap been dealt with that
no member of the saloon party was aware of it, though any sailor among them, would have recognized
instantly that the vessel was traveling under canvas. The Baron, when he heard what had taken
place, was most emphatic in vetoing the suggestion that the Aphrodite should return to Marseilles,
and Stamp was equally determined hot to sail through, the Straits of Bonifacio in half a gale
of wind. As a compromise, a course was shaped for Toulon, and that port was made during the
afternoon. It was the wisest thing to do, under the circumstances. Toulon is the French naval
base for the Mediterranean, and her marine chantiers not only repaired the engines in a few
hours, but supplied a set of spare parts, a wise precaution in view of the yacht's probable
sojourn in a locality where castings would be unattainable.

Thenceforth the voyage proceeded smoothly. Royson took the first opportunity of explaining
to von Kerber how and why the mistake as to his name had arisen, and the Baron only smiled,
in his superior way, having recovered his somewhat domineering manner from the hour that the
French coast-line sank beneath the horizon.

Stump soon ascertained that the Aphrodite made better weather and faster running as a schooner
than as a steamship when the wind suited, and Royson's position on board was rendered all the
more secure thereby. For the rest, Dick lived the humdrum life of the ship. Naturally, he saw
a good deal of the occupants of the saloon, but the acquaintance did not progress beyond formalities.
The two ladies read, and walked, and played bridge with Mr. Fenshawe and the Baron. They took
much interest in Stromboli and the picturesque passage through the Straits of Messina, and
the red glare of Etna kept them on deck for hours. Then the yacht settled down for the run
to Port Said, and arrived at that sunlit abode of rascality on the first of November.

Here the stores and coal bunkers were replenished, but no member of the crew was allowed to
land. Cablegrams, letters, and newspapers came in bundles for the cabin-folk. The only communication
of any sort for officers or men was a letter addressed to Royson by name. Von Kerber constituted
himself postman, and he brought the missive to Dick in person, but not until the Aphrodite
had entered the canal after shipping her French pilot and search-light.

He was annoyed, though he veiled his ill-humor under an affected carelessness.

"How came you to give Port Said as a port of call to one of your correspondents?" he asked.

"I did not," said Dick, whose surprise was genuine enough to disarm suspicion.

"Then some one has made a very accurate guess, yes?" sneered the other.

"I expected no letter from any person under the sun, and I certainly told no one I was passing
through Port Said, for the sufficient reason that I never even thought of the place until you
informed me yourself, sir, that we were bound for the Red Sea."

"It is strange. Well, here is your letter. Perhaps, when you have read it, you may understand
how the thing happened. I wished our destination to remain hidden, from the general public,
and you are the only man on board, except Mr. Fenshawe and myself, whose whereabouts are known
in London."

Now it chanced that the postmark was illegible, and, furthermore, that von Kerber had already
read the letter by adopting the ingenious plan of the Russian censor, who grips the interior
sheet in an instrument resembling a long, narrow curling-tongs, and twists steadily until he
is able to withdraw it uninjured. But Stiff legal note-paper is apt to bear signs of such treatment.
Somewhat later in the day, Royson saw these things, and was perplexed. At the moment, he merely
broke open the envelope.

It was a brief communication from Mr. Forbes. "I telegraphed to you at Marseilles," it said,
"and have ascertained that my message was delivered to you. I regret your apparent decision
not to fall in with my request. Sir Henry Royson is ill, almost dangerously so, and I have
reason to believe that he wishes to make amends to you for his past attitude. I received your
letter, wherein you stated that you were shipping on some vessel under the name of King, but
I had little difficulty in tracing you to Mr. Fenshawe's yacht, and I do not feel justified
in recognizing your unnecessary alias. Again, I advise you to return. I am sure that your employer,
a most estimable man, will not place any difficulties in your way. If you leave the Aphrodite
at Port Said or Ismalia, and send me a cablegram, I will remit by cable funds sufficient for
your needs."

Dick had deemed this disturbing problem dead and done with. He had not hesitated at Marseilles,
nor was he less decided now. He held out the letter to von Kerber frankly, little thinking
how close a scrutiny had been given to his face while he was learning its contents.

"Read it," he said, "and you will see for yourself that I am in no way responsible."

Von Kerber seemed to be taken aback by this display of confidence.

"No, no," he said loftily. "I do not wish it. I have your word. That is sufficient."

"May I send an answer?"

"Yes, from Suez."

And the incident might have ended there had it not been brought into sharp prominence that
evening. Mr. Tagg took the first watch, from eight o'clock to midnight. Under ordinary conditions,
Royson, who was free until four in the morning, would have gone to his cabin and slept soundly.
But, like many another who passes through the great canal for the first time, he could not
resist the fascination of the ship's noiseless, almost stealthy, passage through the desert.

After supper, while enjoying a pipe before turning in, he went forward and stood behind the
powerful electric lamp fitted in the bows to illumine the narrow water-lane which joins East
and West. The broad shaft of light lent a solemn beauty to the bleak wastes on either hand.
In front, the canal's silvery riband shimmered in magic life. Its nearer ripples formed a glittering
corsage for the ship's tapered stem, and merged into a witches' way of blackness beyond. The
red signal of a distant gare, or station, or the white gleam of an approaching vessel's masthead
light, shone from the void like low-pitched stars. Overhead the sky was of deepest blue, its
stupendous arch studded with stars of extraordinary radiance, while low on the west could be
seen the paler sheen of departing day. At times his wondering eyes fell on some Arab encampment
on the neighboring bank, where shrouded figures sat round a fire, and ghostly camels in the
background raised ungainly heads and gazed at the ever-mysterious sight of the moving ship.

The marvelous scene was at once intimate and remote. Its distinguishable features had the sense
of nearness and actuality of some piece of splendid stagecraft, yet he seemed to be peering
not at the rigid outlines of time but rather into the vague, almost terrifying, depths of eternity.
And it was a bewildering fact that this glimpse into the portals of the desert was no new thing
to him. Though never before had his mortal eyes rested on the far-flung vista, he absorbed
its soothing glamour with all the zest of one who came back to a familiar horizon after long
sojourn in pent streets and tree-shrouded valleys.

Time and again he strove to shake off this eerie feeling, but it was not to be repelled. He
fought against its dominance, and denounced its folly, yet his heart whispered that he was
not mistaken, that the majestic silence conveyed some thrilling message which he could not
understand. How long he stood there, and how utterly he had yielded to the strange prepossession
of his dream, he scarce realized until he heard a soft voice close behind him.

"Is that you, Mr. Royson?" it said, and he was called back from the unknown to find Miss Fenshawe
standing near.

"I beg your pardon," he stammered. "I was--so taken up with this--to me--most entrancing experience--"

"That you did not hear my fairy footsteps," she broke in, with a quiet laugh. "Do not apologize
for that. I am wearing list slippers, so my ghostlike approach is easily accounted for. And
I am really very greatly relieved at having found you at all. I was afraid you had left the
ship without my knowledge."

"But how could that be possible, Miss Fenshawe?" he asked, startled out of his reverie by her
peculiar phrase.

"Please don't speak so loudly," she said, dropping her voice almost to a whisper. "I have been
looking for you during the past half hour. I came here twice, but you were so wrapped up in
shadow that I failed to see you, and I was becoming quite anxious, because one of the men assured
me you were not in your cabin."

Dick caught a flurried note in her utterance, a strained desire to avoid the semblance of that
anxiety which she had just admitted. It puzzled him quite as much as the curious sense of familiarity
with his surroundings, a sense which the girl's unexpected appearance had by no means dispelled.
And he was oddly conscious of a breaking away of the social barrier of whose existence she,
at least, must have been convinced. The mere whispering together in this lonely part of the
ship might account for it, to some extent, so he braced himself for the effort to restore her
self-control.

"I came here to have a good look at the desert by night," he said. "You may be sure, Miss Fenshawe,
that I had little notion you were searching for me. It was by the merest accident that I was
able to stow myself out of sight in this particular locality."

She laughed softly again, and her manner became perceptibly less constrained.

"A big man and a small ship--is that it?" she asked. "Tell me, Mr. Royson, why did that officer
of the Guards call you 'King Dick' on the morning of the carriage accident?"

Had the girl racked her brain for a day to frame a question intended to perplex Royson she
could not have hit on one of more penetrating effect. He was astounded not because she had
heard Paton's exclamation, but by reason of the flood of light which her recollection of it
at that moment poured on his own wandering thoughts.

"It is a most amazing thing that you should ask me that, Miss Fenshawe," he cried.

"Sh-s-s-h. I have always imagined you to be a man who would smile in the midst of earthquakes,
yet here you are quite dazzled by a harmless bit of feminine curiosity. Don't you wish me to
know how you came by that nickname? I suppose it is one?"

"There is no other in whom I would confide so willingly," he said. "Promise you will not laugh
at me if I tell you more than you bargain for."

"What? Is there humor in the story?"

"Let us see. I am hardly a fair judge. At present I am more than mystified. It is easy enough
to explain why I was called 'King Dick' at school. That is a mere preface to my romance. One
of the cherished traditions of my family is that we are lineal descendants of King Richard
the First of England."

"Good gracious!"

"The statement lends itself to disbelief, I admit--"

"Why do you think me disbelieving?"

"Pray forgive me, Miss Fenshawe. I am in doubting mood myself to-night. At any rate, the lineage
of the Roysons has not been disputed during many centuries. Our name is part of our proof,
and there has been a Richard Royson associated with Westmoreland ever since Coeur-de-Lion returned
from Palestine. That is the kind of family asset a boy will brag of. Joined to a certain proficiency
in games, it supplies a ready- made nickname. But the wonderful and wholly inexplicable thing
is that while I have been standing here, watching our head-light dancing over the desert, the
fantastic conceit has invaded my very soul that I share with my kingly ancestor his love of
this land, his ambition to accomplish great deeds in its secret places, his contempt and scorn
of all opposing influences. Do you remember how he defied a rain of blood which scared his
courtiers? One of his friends has placed on record the opinion that if an angel from heaven
bade Richard abandon his work he would have answered with a curse. Well, I am poor, and of
slight consequence in the world to-day, but at least it has been vouchsafed me to understand
what a strong man and a king can feel when there are those who would thwart his will. At present,
I am powerless, as little able to give effect to my energies as Richard himself when pent in
an Austrian prison, but I do ask that some Blondel shall free me, no matter what the ransom,
and that Fate shall set me a task worthy of the man who fought and dreamed and planned empires
out there eight centuries ago."

Royson threw back his head, and stretched his right hand toward the desert where lay Jaffa
and Jerusalem. He was quite carried away by the magic of the hour. He had brushed aside the
cobwebs of society, and spoke to Irene as a gallant and fearless youth might address the maid
at whose feet he hoped to lay the trophies gained in winning his knighthood. And she, as might
be expected, responded to the passionate chord which sounded this challenge to fortune. She,
too, forgot convention, for which Heaven be praised!

"You have my prayers for your success," she whispered. "What is more, I believe in you, and
that is why I am here now, for I have come to ask you, for my sake and the sake of one whom
I love, not to leave this ship until I bid you."

At any other moment such a request must have had a sinister sound. Coming then, it seemed to
be a direct answer to Dick's excited appeal to the unseen power that governs men's lives. He
turned and looked into her eyes. She was so near to him that he could see the wondrous light
shining in their limpid depths. He felt the fragrance of her presence, the glow of her tender
beauty, and she did not shrink from him when he placed a protecting hand on her shoulder.

"You need no promise from me, Miss Fenshawe," he said, with a labored utterance that was wholly
unaccountable to him. "Twice already have I refused to leave you, though I have been summoned
to England to resume an inheritance wrongfully withheld. We are stubborn, we Richards, and
we are loyal, too. It was you, I now believe, who snatched me from misery, almost from despair.
Have no fear, therefore, that I shall desert you."

"You have taken a load from my heart," she answered softly. "You are the only man on board
In whom I have any real confidence. I fear that my grandfather has been misled, wilfully and
shamefully misled, but I am unable to prevent it for lack of proof. But to-night, after dinner,
I chanced to overhear a conversation with reference to you which redoubled the doubts I have
felt ever since this expedition was decided on. I feel that I must tell you. Baron von Kerber
distrusts you because you are a gentleman. He fears you will act as one if you have to choose
between his interests and your own honor. And today, since your letter arrived--"

"Yes, ma'am," they heard Captain Stump shout from the bridge, "Miss Fenshawe is forrard, with
Mr. Royson. You'll find it a very pretty sight goin' through the canal on a night like this."

And Mrs. Haxton, hunting the ship for Irene--not to speak of Royson and the girl herself when
in calmer mood--may have wondered why Stump should trumpet forth his information as though
he wished all on board to hear it. Perhaps it was, as Dick already well knew, that the stout
skipper had good eyesight as well as a kind heart.

CHAPTER VI

AT THE PORTAL

"Why in the world did you hide yourself in this part of the ship, Irene?" cried Mrs. Haxton,
advancing with a rapidity that was in marked contrast to her usual languid movements. "I have
been searching for you everywhere."

"I have not hidden myself, and you must have missed a rather large section out of your everywhere,"
said the girl, with a coolness that Royson found admirable.

"But Mr. Fenshawe wants you. He has been vainly awaiting his partner at the bridge table during
the past twenty minutes."

"I would never have believed grandfather could be so callous. Play cards here! Where every
prospect pleases and only bridge is vile! Let me bring him forth at once. Good night, Mr. Royson!
Thank you so much for a nice talk. I think I shall be able now to pass an examination in the
history and geography of the Suez Canal."

Dick lifted his cap, silently thanking Providence that women were more adroit than men. Mrs.
Haxton seemed to take no notice of him. Indeed, she had scarcely spoken to him since they met
at Marseilles, and, were he a vain man, such studied neglect on the part of a pretty woman
might have supplied food for thought. Yet it is possible that Mrs. Haxton herself would confess
to a certain chagrin if she realized how small a place she occupied in his mind as he followed
her along the deck. Irene flitted in front, light-limbed and agile, humming gaily a verse of
some song, but breaking off in the midst to ask Captain Stump not to be very angry if she brought
a party of invaders to his tiny domain. She was young enough, not to feel fluttered by the
knowledge that Mrs. Haxton had broken in on a somewhat dangerous interchange of confidences.
She knew that she wanted a friend--some one less opinionative than Mr. Fenshawe--to whom she
could appeal for help and guidance when difficulties arose. Royson was already a hero in her
eyes, and what more natural than that she should turn to him, especially under the circumstances
which had come to her knowledge that evening? As for Dick, he fancied that the Suez Canal was
one of the roads to Heaven.

Before he climbed into his bunk, however, he re-read Mr. Forbes's letter, and noticed then
that it bore signs of interference, while von Kerber, if he had not opened it, must have jumped
to the conclusion that it came from London solely because the stamp was an English one. Added
to Irene's veiled warning that all was not well on board, this apparent tampering with his
correspondence bore an ugly look. It almost suggested that the Baron feared he was what the
London inquiry agent had asked him to become--the paid spy of Alfieri. He wondered what hold
the Italian had on the man. Now that he was able to examine recent events in perspective, he
saw that von Kerber had traveled alone from London with the hope of throwing off his track
any one who was watching him--and had failed. It was evident, too, that neither Mr. Fenshawe
nor his granddaughter, nor Mrs. Haxton for that matter, took pains to keep their whereabouts
unknown, because Dick had seen an announcement of the Aphrodite's cruise in a London newspaper
brought on board by the pilot. Von Kerber's name was not mentioned, but the others were described
briefly, the reference to Mrs. Haxton being that she was "a persona grata in Anglo-Egyptian
society." Why, then, did the Austrian demand such secrecy from the yacht's crew, and be so
perturbed by the advent of a letter addressed to one of them? But Royson's disposition was
far too happy-go-lucky to permit of serious ponderings on other people's business. He laughed
and reddened a little when his mind swung round to the more pleasing memory of the girl's frank
sympathy, and he told himself, with deep and convincing earnestness, that next time they met
he must guard his unruly tongue, else it might run away with him again, and find her in less
receptive mood.

Then he fell asleep, and slept soundly, too, in blissful ignorance of a conversation then taking
place in the chart-house, though it had the most direct bearing on his own future.

For von Kerber had seized the opportunity, when Mr. Fenshawe and the two ladies went below,
to draw Stump into private conclave.

"We reach Suez to-morrow, captain," he said, "and that will be our last chance of getting rid
of any of the crew whom you think unsuitable."

"That's so," agreed Stump, "but I can't say I've blacklisted any of 'em. The on'y fault I find
with 'em is that there's too many hands for the work."

"Ah, you regard them as dependable, yes?"

"Good for any game you like to put before 'em," was the brisk summary.

"That is what I want. But tell me, captain, will you be able to replace Mr. Royson? I believe
he is useful when it comes to sailing the yacht, yet I have no doubt you can dispense with him?"

Stomp was shrewd in a limited way. He caught the drift of von Kerber's comment, and it did
not help to further the scheme which the latter had in mind.

"Mr. Royson?" came the quick growl. "What of him? Next to Tagg, he's the best man in the crowd."

"Possibly, but I have reason to believe that he wishes to return to England."

"He hasn't said so."

"Not to you, perhaps, but I know it is so, and I do not wish to detain him when our numbers
are already ample for all purposes. I am awkwardly placed in the matter, as Mr. Fenshawe feels
under a slight obligation to him, so I shall be glad if you will pay him off to-morrow, on
a generous basis, of course, with every allowance for the expenses of the homeward passage."

"Wot?" said Stump, moving restlessly under von Kerber's fixed gaze. "D'ye mean it, mister?"

"I do, most certainly."

"Then you'd better fix the business yourself. You engaged him, like the rest of us. I like
the lad, and I'd take it ill to be axed to fire him. No, sir. That ain't in my department this
trip. It'd be a bird of another color if he was no good. But he's a first-rater, an' I, for
one, will be sorry to lose him. If you don't take my word for it, ax Tagg. He knows a man when
he see him, does Tagg, an' he hasn't forgotten that upper cut Mr. Royson gev' a land shark
in Marseilles when the crowd set about you."

Stump was profoundly moved, or he would not have made such a long speech, and von Kerber knew
that his flank attack had failed. Indeed, the gruff sailor had as good as charged him with
rank ingratitude.

"Oh, if you think that way about it," said he coolly, "we can let the project drop for the
present. I was only considering Mr. Royson's own interests. Whether he goes or stays, it does
not concern me in the least. Have a cigarette? Ah, you prefer a pipe, yes? Well, good night,
captain. We shall not be rocked to sleep by the wild waves to-night, I imagine."

Stump joined Tagg on the bridge. He jerked a thumb after the Baron's retreating figure.

"That German swab wants me to boot Royson," he muttered.

"Boot Royson? The idee! Wot for?"

"He piled it on thick about wot he called Royson's own interests, but I knew better'n that.
It don't suit his book for our dandy second mate to be sparkin' the owner's granddaughter abaft
the lantern. You take my tip, Tagg, that other woman, Mrs. Haxton, is as mean as, sin, an'
she blew the gaff to-night when she dropped on 'em after supper."

"I've always thought her a bit of a cat," agreed Tagg.

"An' wot did you say?"

"Say, I tole 'im to do his dirty work hisself. Mark my words, Tagg, he'll not tackle the job
for fear it comes to the gal's ears. You watch him close up like an oyster."

Stump was a prophet worthy of honor, though Dick did not appreciate the Baron's friendly solicitude
about his affairs until long afterwards. But he did learn by chance how amply justified Irene
was in her fear that he might be asked to leave the ship. The Aphrodite was spinning down the
Gulf of Suez late next day, under all her snowy spread of sail, when Royson went aloft to assure
himself that a stiff pulley on the fore yard was in good working order. He found that it needed
a slight readjustment, and the alteration, was troublesome owing to the strain of a steady
breeze. He persevered, put matters right, and was climbing down to the deck when, through the
foresail, he heard voices discussing none other than himself.

Mrs. Haxton and von Kerber had strolled, forward, and were leaning over the side of the ship,
never dreaming that the man they were talking of was within a few feet of them above their
heads, though hidden by the sail.

"I was exceedingly surprised to find that he was not sent ashore with the pilot at Suez," the
lady was saying. "No matter what his present position may be, he is a baronet's nephew and
prospective heir it would seem. It is sheer madness on your part to keep a man like him on board."

"But I tell you that I asked Stump to discharge him, and met with a blank refusal," replied
the Baron irritably.

"That is even more amazing. Are not these men your servants?"

"Yes, in a sense. Try to understand me, Maud. I had to select men of good character, or they
might fail me in the hour of real need. If you hire pirates you must expect them to act like
pirates, yes? Stump favors Royson, so he pointed out that as I had engaged him I must dismiss
him. And you know quite well, if you would only be reasonable, that any such action on my part
could hardly fail to arouse some measure of doubt in Fenshawe's mind, which is the very thing
we wish to avoid."

"I think you are wrong, nevertheless."

"You should not say that if you are not prepared to tell me how I could arrange an awkward
business better. And what are you afraid of? He is as keen as any of us for the adventure,
and he will be well paid if it succeeds."

"You are a poor conspirator, my dear Franz," laughed Mrs. Haxton disagreeably. "If you were
really the clever person you think yourself you would know that such a man may leaven the whole
crew with his ideas of honor. And, when the pressure comes, he will have an excellent helper
in that girl. She, too, should have been left at home. Oh, nonsense! Had you given me the ordering
of affairs neither she nor this young down-at-heels aristocrat would be here today. I am not
saying this merely to annoy you, as you seem to believe, but to warn you. Be on your guard,
Franz. Things are going too smoothly. No great fortune was ever yet won without a hitch or
two on the road, and we are not far from the Five Hills now."

They moved away. Dick went back to his pulley, surveyed the deck over the fore yard, and deferred
his descent until "Franz" and "Maud" were at the other end of the vessel. Since they came on
board they had been "Baron von Kerber" and "Mrs. Haxton" in the presence of others. What desperate
game were they playing that demanded these small deceits-- what hazard of fortune was it that
gave rise to the woman's Cassandra- like forebodings? Von Kerber had been candid enough in
the statement he put forward voluntarily at Marseilles. Any one could guess the uncertainties
of a quest depending on a document two thousand years old, while its dangers were manifest.
Mr. Fenshawe and Irene must be cognizant of the open risks, and it was idle to suppose that
they did not appreciate the unobtrusive way in which the yacht was being hurried to her destination.
Why, then, should von Kerber and Mrs. Haxton share some secret understanding, the outcome of
which was doubtful, and, above all else, why should they fear the influence that a young and
unknown man might exercise on the crew?

"Egypt is the land of riddles," mused Dick, as he gazed at the russet and purple hills which
spring up so suddenly to guard the strange sea thrust by nature into the bosom of a fiery land.
"My best course is to adopt the attitude of the Sphinx. I shall keep my eyes open and say nothing."

He forgot, however, that the chief characteristic of the Sphinx is an enduring patience, and
he chafed at the colorless monotony of the next few days. The Aphrodite crept under sail five
hundred miles to the south, until the wind died of sheer exhaustion. Then the engines took
their turn, and the yacht exchanged the steady roll of a topsail schooner for the quivering
uneasiness of a steam-driven ship. But sail or steam, the pace was slow, and the passage of
the Red Sea left its record on the smart little vessel in the shape of blistered paint, gaping
seams, and planks from which the sweated pitch was no sooner holy-stoned than it oozed forth
again to smear their purity. Though stout awnings defied the direct fury of the sun they could
not shut out its glare and furnace heat. And the human barometer showed the stress of life.
Stump was a caldron in himself, Tagg a bewhiskered malediction in damp linen. The temper of
the crew, stifling in crowded quarters, suggested--that they were suffering from a plague of
bolls. As a mere pastime, there was an occasional fight in the forecastle. Unhappily for the
disputants, Stump had a ready ear for these frays, and he would rush in to settle them with
a vigor that left the pugilists prostrate. Then he would recover his caustic humor for half
an hour, and regale Royson with yarns of things wot happened when the Bed Sea was reelly hot.
This weather was on'y warm. Why, once when he was aboard the Ocean Queen, her bunker gev' out
six hours north o' Perim, but he whipped the awnin's off, an' the sun kep' up a head o' steam
in the boilers until she ran into port.

The saloon party found existence more endurable. They had adjustable window-shades, and electric
fans, and there was a sheltered deck over their heads. So they dozed away the hot hours placidly
until the memorable day dawned when Stump, after much close scrutiny of charts, ventured to
leave the safe channel down the center of the Red Sea and stand in towards the African coast.

"Massowah!" was on every tongue, and the general listlessness vanished. Soon a dim land-line
appeared. It grew into a range of barren mountains, broken by narrow, precipice-guarded valleys.
Then a thin strip of flat fore-shore became visible. It deepened into a flat island, barely
two miles long, and assumed a habitable aspect. A lighthouse marked a fine harbor. A custom-house,
a fort, several jetties, and a town of fairly tall buildings stood clear from a scattered gathering
of coral-built Arab houses and hundreds of grass and mat huts. In a word, man had conquered
the wilderness, and a busy community had sprung into being between the silent sea and the arid
earth.

While the Aphrodite was picking her way cautiously to the anchorage ground, Dick, who was on
the bridge with the captain, heard some broken talk between Mr. Fenshawe and the Baron. The
latter, with subdued energy, was urging some point which the older man refused to yield. The
discussion was keen, and the millionaire betrayed a polite resentment of his companion's views.

"I am sure the Italian authorities will place no obstacle in our way," he declared at last.
"When all is said and done, the interest of our trip is mainly archeological. Why should you
hold this absurd notion that we may be refused official sanction?"

He spoke emphatically, with unveiled impatience. Dick could not make out the Austrian's reply,
but Mr. Fenshawe's next words showed that, whatever the matter in dispute, he had a will of
his own, and meant to exercise it.

"It is useless to try to convince me on that head," he exclaimed. "I would turn back this instant
rather than act in the way you suggest. You must allow me to follow my original plan. We shall
obtain a valid permit from the Governor. If, contrary to my expectation, he refers the final
decision to the Italian Foreign Department, we shall await cabled instructions. Our ambassador
at Rome can vouch for us. He is an old friend of mine, and I only regret that I did not obey
my first impulse and write to him before I left London."

Von Kerber asserted that there was some danger of the Somali Arabs becoming excited If they
heard of the expedition. Mr. Fenshawe laughed.

"Arabs!" he cried. "How long has that bee buzzed In your bonnet. The only lawless tribes In
this country are far away in the interior. And even they are apt to think many times before
they offer active resistance to the passing of a strong and well-intentioned kafila. Besides,
my dear fellow, we must purchase some portion of our equipment here. It is secrecy, not candor,
that would endanger our mission. Believe me, you are suffering from Red Sea spleen. It distorts
your normal vision. You certainly took a different view of the situation when we determined
its main features in London."

Royson was careful not to look at the speakers. Between him and them was seated Mrs. Haxton,
and he knew that she, too, was an attentive listener. Von Kerber began to explain the reasons
which lay behind his change of opinion, but Stump's voice suddenly recalled Dick to his duties.

"Stand by the anchor, Mr. Royson," he said, "and see that everything is clear when I tell you
to let go."

Irene heard the order.

"I want to watch the anchor flop overboard," she announced, springing up from a deck chair.
"I think I shall accompany you, Mr. Royson."

Dick held out his hand to help her down the short companionway. They had not exchanged many
words since that memorable night in the canal, and the penetrating look in the girl's eyes
warned Royson now that she was about to say something not meant for others to hear.

"You have not forgotten?" she murmured.

"No," he answered.

"When we go ashore you must come with us."

"How can I make sure of that?"

"Ask Captain Stump to send you in charge of the boat. Do you know that an attempt was made
to get rid of you at Suez?"

"Yes."

"It failed."

"Yes, I know that, too."

"Who told you?"

"I overheard a conversation. I could not help it."

"Well, once we are ashore I may have a chance of explaining things fully. If necessary, tell
Captain Stump I wish you to escort us."

They could say no more. The telegraph rang from "Slow" to "Stop her." Two sailors were waiting
in the bows, and had already cleared the anchor from its chocks. Irene leaned against the rail.
She wore a pith hat, and was dressed in white muslin for shore-going, while a pink- lined parasol
helped to dispel a pallor which was the natural result of an exhausting voyage. Dick thought
he had never seen a woman with a face and figure to match hers, and it is to be feared that
hi mind wandered a little until he was roused by a bellow from the bridge.

"Stand by, forrard. Let go-o-o!"

Luckily, Dick's office was a sinecure. The men knew what to do, and did it. With a roar and
a rattle the chain cable rushed through the hawse- pipe, and the Aphrodite rested motionless
on the green water of the roadstead.

The yacht's arrival created some stir on shore. Several boats put off, their swarthy crews
contending strenuously which should have the valuable privilege of landing the expected passengers.
Stump bustled down from the bridge with the important air of a man who had achieved something,
and thus gave Royson an unforeseen opportunity of asking him about the boat. The skipper swung
himself back to the upper deck, and approached Mr. Fenshawe.

"Are you goin' ashore at once, sir?" he inquired.

"Yes, the sooner the better, or the Government Offices will be closed for the day."

"Mr. Royson," shouted Stump, "pipe the crew of the jolly-boat, an' lower away."

"An Arab boat will be much speedier and more roomy," broke in Mrs. Haxton, quick to observe
that von Kerber was not paying heed to the captain's preparations.

"You can land in one of those weird-looking craft If you like," said Irene, "but I am sure
Mr. Fenshawe and I would prefer our own state barge. It is much more dignified, too, and I
really think we ought to impress the natives. Don't you agree with me, Baron von Kerber?"

There was nothing more to be said. The boat was lowered so smartly that Dick was seated at
the tiller, and four ash blades were driving her rapidly shoreward, before the leading crew
of panting Somalis reached the ship's side. They secured two passengers, however. Mrs. Haxton,
who had declined a seat in the jolly-boat on the score of the intense heat, changed her mind,
and the captain elected to go with her.

"I want to cable my missus," he announced, "an' Massowah is likely to be our last port for
some time. If she don't hear from me once a month, she frets. That's where Tagg has the pull.
He's an orfin."

Mrs. Haxton smiled delightedly. She was watching the distant jolly- boat, and something seemed
to please her.

"Your second mate has not visited Massowah before?" she said.

"No, ma'am."

"We shall be ashore first, after all. He is heading for the Government jetee, where a sentry
will warn him off."

"Oh, you know the ropes here, then?" said Stump. "Not many English ladies have coasted in these
waters."

Mrs. Haxton thought, perhaps, that she had aired her knowledge unnecessarily, but she explained
that when her husband was alive she had accompanied him during a long cruise in the Red Sea.
"He was interested in cable construction," she said, "and we visited Massowah when it was first
taken In hand by the Italians."

"Excuse me, ma'am, but have you bin long a widdy?"

"Nearly five years."

"By gad," said Stump admiringly, "you must ha' bin a small slip of a gal when you was married!"

She laughed, with the quiet assurance of a beautiful and well-dressed woman. Mrs. Haxton could
be charming when she chose, and she wanted Stump to act exactly in accord with her own plans
when they reached the town. By this time the two boats were nearly level, but separated by
a hundred yards or more. The captain had half risen to hail Dick when Mrs. Haxton stopped him.

"Let them go on," she cried. "They would not take my advice. Now they will find that we have
beaten them by a good five minutes."

Stump knew quite well, of course, that a broad-beamed English boat could not compete with the
long, slim Somali craft, but he was aware also that Miss Fenshawe and Royson wished to land
in company. So he grinned, and sat down again.

The outcome of these cross purposes was curious in many ways. As Mrs. Haxton foresaw, the jolly-boat
was forbidden to land at the main wharf, and Royson discovered that the Austrian did not understand
Italian. It was Irene who translated the orders shouted at them by a brigandish- looking soldier,
and they had to pull off in the direction of a smaller pier where Mrs. Haxton and Captain Stump
had already disembarked in the midst of a crowd of jabbering natives.

"Now, captain," said Mrs. Haxton, with her sweetest smile, pointing to a white building in
the distance, "that is the telegraph-office. We need not both remain here until our friends
arrive. Suppose you go and send your cablegram in peace. By the time you have written it we
shall be close behind you. Pray don't wait on my account. You see I want to crow over Miss
Fenshawe."

"Just as you like, ma'am," said Stump, lifting his cap awkwardly. He went at the noisy mob
like a battering-ram. "Sheer off, you black-an'- tan mongrels!" he roared at them. "Go an'
ax some one to play on you with a hose-pipe. Jow, you soors! D'ye think the lady likes to be
pisened?"

He cleared a space, and rolled away towards the town. Hence, he did not notice a gaunt Arab,
whose flowing burnous and distinguished air singled him out from the mixed gathering of nondescripts
at the landing-place, who bided his time until Mrs. Haxton looked in his direction. Then he
salaamed, with a courtly blend of deference and hauteur, and she beckoned him instantly.

"You are Sheikh Abdullah?" she asked in French.

"Yes, madam," he replied, in the same language.

"You know the town well?"

"I have been waiting here two months."

"Then two more hours will not weary you. Von Kerber Effendi, or I, or both of us, will meet
you outside the Elephant Mosque at five o'clock. Nevertheless, should there be others with
us, do not speak unless we address you."

"Who is he, the red ox?" demanded the Arab, gazing after the broad figure of Captain Stump.

"He is the captain of our ship, a man of no importance. The Hakim Effendi is in the approaching
boat. With, him is Fenshawe Effendi, the old, gray-haired man. There is a tall young ship's
officer there, too. His name is Royson--you will not forget?--Royson. He is dangerous. Regard
him well. He might prove troublesome, or useful--I hardly know which at present. Fenshawe Effendi
speaks French and Arabic, Royson Effendi French only. That is all, for the present. Leave me now."

"Adieu, madame. A cinq heures!"

Drawing back into the mob of natives, who were pressing nearer in their eagerness to offer
themselves for hire to the Europeans in the boat, Abdullah shaded his swarthy face under, a
fold of his burnous. Royson leaped ashore in order to assist Irene to land. She, with school-girl
glee at emancipation from the narrow decks of the Aphrodite, sprang on to the low pier at the
same instant, and laughed at his surprise at finding her standing by his side. They both extended
a hand to Mr. Fenshawe, who refused their aid, saying that the first breath of dry air had
made him feel as young as ever.

"There is no tonic like it," he said. "Look at Mrs. Haxton if you want a proof. She was a lily
in London--now she is a rose."

Excitement, or the prospect of success, had certainly given the lady's complexion a fine tint.
Her dainty profile offered a striking contrast to the motley crew of negroid Arabs who surrounded
her. And she came to meet them in a buoyant spirit, though the fierce sun was scorching her
delicate skin through the thin fabric of her dress.

"I ought to have made a wager with you, Mr. Royson," she cried, pronouncing his name very distinctly.
"Our English-built craft cannot hold its own against the Somali, you see."

Knowing nothing of the difference of opinion on board the yacht, Dick could not fathom this
sudden graciousness on her part. Before he could answer, von Kerber's highly-pitched voice
broke in.

"Why did Captain Stump come ashore with you?" he asked.

"To send Mrs. Stump a cablegram, I believe," replied Mrs. Haxton carelessly.

"He ought to have asked my permission first."

The petulant words drew a protest from Mr. Fenshawe.

"My dear Baron," he said, "why should not the poor man make known his safe arrival to his wife?
You are not yourself to-day. What is it-- liver? or anxiety?"

"I have no special reason for anxiety," cried von Kerber, almost hysterically. Royson came
to his relief by asking for orders about the boat, but the Austrian was so unnerved, for no
visible reason, that he hesitated, and Irene answered for him.

"We have arranged to dine on shore, at the Hotel Grande del Universo," she said. "Mr. Fenshawe
wishes Captain Stump and you to join us, so the boat may go back to the yacht and come for
us at eight o'clock. When you meet Captain Stump, please tell him."

"Excellent!" agreed her grandfather, who now heard of the "arrangement" for the first time.
"Really, Irene, you put things so admirably that I hardly recognize my own crude thoughts.
Well, as that is settled, let us go straight to the Governor's house. One of these black gentlemen
will pilot us."

While Fenshawe was airing his Arabic in selecting a guide from fifty volunteers, Dick gave
instructions to the boat's crew. Mrs. Haxton, seeing that Irene was all eyes for her new and
strange surroundings, read von Kerber a much-needed lecture.

"For goodness' sake gather your wits," she murmured. "You will arouse general suspicion by
your foolish precautions. Now listen. Before five o'clock let us all gather at the hotel for
tea. Slip away on some pretext, and go instantly to the Elephant Mosque. It is in the main
street, three hundred yards to the left of the hotel. I shall join you there if possible, but,
in any event, you'll meet Abdullah. And, whatever you do, stop this nonsense about proceeding
in secret. Ah, yes, Irene, your grandfather has his hands full. But he knows how to manage
natives. You will see him in his element when we come to collect a kafila."

So, smiling and soft-tongued, Mrs. Haxton turned in response to some delighted exclamation
from the girl. They made their way inland in the wake of a swaggering negro, and, as Royson
passed with the others, Abdullah, the Arab, appraised him with critical eye.

"By the Holy Kaaba," said he, "there goes a man! I have seen few like him, even at Khartoum,
where the giaours swarmed in thousands. But he is young, and his flesh is soft. The desert
will thin his blood. And that little bull, who went before--he, too, should feel the sap dry
in his bones. Tomb of my father! if the Hakim Effendi has brought such men as these in his
train, there will be deeds done at the foot of the Five Hills, and I, Abdullah the Spear-thrower,
shall be there to witness them."

CHAPTER VII

MRS. HAXTON RECEIVES A SHOCK

Mr. Fenshawe, renewing his acquaintance with Arabic gutturals, and von Kerber, walking apart
with Mrs. Haxton, in order to learn how and when she had received tidings of Abdullah, had
eyes or ears for naught else. Irene and Dick were thus given a few moments free from listeners,
and the girl was quick enough to grasp the chance.

"You know why we have come here?" she asked in a low tone, halting to look back at the belt
of tiny islets which secludes Massowah's larger island from the open sea.

"Baron von Kerber told us at Marseilles," said Dick, wondering what new development had chased
from the girl's face the smiling interest of a moment ago.

"'Us'?" she demanded, almost sharply.

"I should have said Captain Stump, Mr. Tagg, and myself."

"What did he tell you?"

"The remarkable history of a Roman expedition against the Sabaeans, of a storm, a shipwreck,
the burial of a vast treasure, and the ultimate discovery of its hiding-place by means of a
Greek papyrus found in a tomb."

"That is what irritates me," said she, in a sudden gust of anger. "His behavior is faultless,
yet I am certain that he is acting in an underhanded way. I have ventured to say as much to
my grandfather, but I cannot obtain a shred of actual fact to justify my suspicions. Indeed
Baron von Kerber is candor itself where the genuineness of the papyrus is concerned. Did he
endeavor to explain Mrs. Haxton's presence, or mine?"

"When Captain Stump protested--before he had seen you, remember-- against ladies accompanying
us, the Baron said that without you the expedition could not proceed."

"Exactly. That is another bit of unconvincing accuracy. Mrs. Haxton has always been an essential
part of the scheme. I am here solely because I did not think Mr. Fenshawe should be allowed
to go alone--alone in the sense that these people were strangers to him, while he was spending
many thousands of pounds for their very great benefit. There, again, I find myself in a sort
of verbal cul de sac. Under other circumstances I should be delighted to take part in an adventure
of this kind. Grandad promised me two years ago that we should pass the present winter in Upper
Egypt. Unhappily, Mrs. Haxton introduced von Kerber to him at a place in the Highlands where
we were invited for the shooting. The instant he heard of the legend on that wretched scrap
of paper all his old enthusiasm for exploration work revived, and he has followed their plans
blindly ever since."

"I hope you will forgive me if I express a somewhat contrary opinion, Miss Fenshawe," said
Royson. "Your grandfather did not hesitate to run counter to the Baron's wishes to-day, for
instance."

"Oh, that is nothing. Of course, with his experience of Egypt, he takes the lead in such matters.
What I want you to believe is this: Mrs. Haxton, and not von Kerber, found that papyrus, or
it came into her hands by some means. She is the originator of the scheme. She sought to be
included in our friend's party at Glengarloch with the set object of meeting grandad, whose
interest in archeology is known to all the world. She did not come across von Kerber by accident,
but produced him at the right moment. He is not a casual friend, met in Cairo, as she pretends,
but a man whom she has known for years. And, last in a list of guessings which I know to be
true, they both fear some discovery, or interruption, or danger not revealed to us, which may
prevent them from obtaining the wealth they hope to gain. They are desperately poor, Mr. Royson.
They have mortgaged their credit to its utmost extent to enable them to keep up appearances,
and they dread some catastrophe which will interfere with our search, though the only authority
we have for the existence of the Roman legion's loot is a scrap of scarcely decipherable writing,
which, though genuine enough, may be nothing better than a madman's dream."

"Have you told Mr. Fenshawe these things?" asked Dick. His pledged word to von Kerber interposed
an awkward barrier against that complete confidence which he would gladly have given to one
who had so curiously amplified his own doubts.

"Yes, everything, but he only laughs, and bids me remember that I am not yet twenty. He says
that there are stranger things buried beneath the dust of Egypt than all the learned societies
have succeeded in revealing. He is quite content that the cruise of the Aphrodite should be
a wild-goose chase so long as the evidence of the papyrus is proved to be false. And that is
my chief stumbling-block. Perhaps you do not realize that, to an antiquarian, the search yields
as keen pleasure as the find. The cost of this expedition is a matter of no consequence to
my grandfather, and I repeat that, under other conditions, I should regard it as a most enjoyable
and memorable excursion. But these two people have made me nervous, and that is why I was determined
they should not get rid of you at Suez, because I felt that I could trust you with my doubts
and fears, and look to you for help should an emergency arise. Otherwise, Mr. Fenshawe and
I would be at their mercy."

"You can count on me to the end," said Royson earnestly, "but I would ask you not to forget
that the officers and crew are all Englishmen, and, from what I have seen of them, they would
never lend themselves to any undertaking which meant actual treachery to their employers."

"That, of course, is excellent so far as it goes," was the tart response, "but I am also aware
that our enterprising Baron has very adroitly bound all of you to secrecy, and exacted a promise
of faithfulness to his interests. The result is that not even you, Mr. Royson, told me anything
about the attack made on him at Marseilles--"

This counter-stroke was unexpected, and Royson glanced at her with some degree of embarrassment.

"He persuaded us that if the incident came to your knowledge it might alarm you needlessly,"
he broke in, "and that sounded quite reasonable."

"Exactly. You are beginning to appreciate the pitfalls which awaited me when I tried to convince
my grandfather that he should not credit every statement made to him. Baron von Kerber is the
most plausible of men. He never tells a downright untruth. Indeed, he speaks the absolute truth,
but only a part of it. Fortunately, my maid heard of your prowess in routing the Baron's assailants.
You at once became a hero among the sailors, which, by the way, was only fit and proper if
you are destined to fill the role played by your distinguished ancestor."

A quiet little smile chased the shadows from her face, and Dick flushed as he recalled the
wild words of that wonderful night in the canal.

"Tagg must have been talking," he managed to say. "Please tell me what you have heard, Miss
Fenshawe."

"Nothing beyond the fact that our Austrian friend was set upon by some highway robbers while
driving from the station to the ship at a late hour, and that you and Mr. Tagg happened to
be near, with disastrous results to the Marseillais. Does your bond permit you to carry the
story further? What did really happen?"

"There was a rather one-sided fight, because Tagg and I took them by surprise, but the Baron
escaped uninjured, or nearly so."

"Did they rob him, then?"

"I meant that he sustained a couple of slight cuts, and therein you have another valid reason
for his anxiety that the affair should not reach your ears."

Though her own manner was imperious enough, Irene was manifestly surprised at the annoyance
apparent in Dick's voice. She did not realize that he was wroth because of the check imposed
by the promise exacted in London. If he told her of the theft of the papyrus, and explained
the few details he possessed with regard to von Kerber's declared enemy, he would only add
fuel to the distrust already planted in her heart. That would achieve no tangible good, while
no casuistry would wipe away the stain on his own honor. So here was he, burning with desire
to assure her of his devotion, forced into silent pact with the very conspiracy she was denouncing.

She attributed his sudden gruffness to a distaste for hearing his exploits lauded.

"At any rate, you now understand my motive for speaking so plainly, Mr. Royson," she went on.
"You may feel bound by your arrangement with the Baron, and I have no fault to find on that
score, but I am quite, certain, since I have learnt who you are, that you will not lend yourself
to any discreditable plan which may be in the minds of the remarkable pair who are now looking
at us, and wondering, no doubt, what we are discussing so earnestly."

Royson saw that von Kerber and Mrs. Haxton were awaiting them at the door of the post-office,
but the personal allusion to himself, which Miss Fenshawe had dropped, in parenthesis as it
were, into her concluding sentence, demanded a question.

"Will you enlighten me on the interesting point of my identity, then?" he asked rapidly.

"Oh yes. I take it that your Port Said letter was opened and read. Mrs. Haxton is skilled at
jumping to conclusions, I fancy. She said she recognized your name at Marseilles--when the
telegram arrived, you know--but, if that were so, it is strange that she should keep the knowledge
to herself until all of us were at dinner after leaving Port Said. I also can add two and two
occasionally, and I have not the slightest doubt that something in your letter gave her the
necessary clue. Was she mistaken?"

"In what?"

"In the belief that you are the nephew of a baronet, and his heir?"

He laughed pleasantly. After years of indifference, his birthright was pursuing him with a
certain zest.

"You could not have chosen a better example of those half-truths you complain of," said he.
"I admit that my uncle is Sir Henry Royson, but his heir he vowed I should not be when last
we met. Yet the letter you speak of was from his solicitor, and it held out a vague suggestion
of possibilities which, to put it mildly, would make Mrs. Haxton a remarkably good guesser."

A silence fell upon them as they neared the others. Irene disdained to use any subterfuge,
and Royson was far too perplexed to branch off into a new conversation meant for the general
ear. Mrs. Haxton and the Austrian also broke off their talk. They were about to enter the post-
office when Mr. Fenshawe came out.

"Here you are," he cried. "Lots of letters and newspapers. Take them, Irene, and sort them
out. The Baron and I must hurry to the Governor's house. We can read our correspondence at
the hotel."

Von Kerber had evidently profited by his stroll with Mrs. Haxton. He raised no objection, but
went off at once with the older man. Irene managed to open the bulky, string-tied package entrusted
to her. She gave Mrs. Haxton several letters, and added to Royson's already bewildered state
by handing him three, two being directed to him in his right name and the third bearing the
superscription "Richard King, Esq."

He knew that Miss Fenshawe had noticed the alias, and took it as a kindly act that she passed
no remark on it. He was equally well aware that Mrs. Haxton was alive to the fact that there
were letters for him. Stump, who made his appearance at the moment, added a whiff of awkwardness
when he saw the envelopes in Dick's hands.

"Hello!" he growled, "you've bin pretty spry. Letters, eh? How did you work it?"

"I am not able to tell you," was the frank answer. "Evidently some one in London discovered
the yacht's route long before I knew it myself."

"That's funny," said Stump, with a hint of doubt in the exclamation.

"It is probably a simple enough matter if it were cleared up," said Irene off-handedly. "The
Aphrodite's ports of call are quite open to the knowledge of any person who takes the trouble
to inquire at Mr. Fenshawe's residence. Mr. Royson will find, no doubt, that his friends followed
that course when he failed to let them know whither the vessel was bound. But it is too hot
to stand here in the sun. Let us go to the hotel and look through our budget in comfort."

When opportunity served, Dick glanced at his unexpected mail. The two letters for "Royson"
were from Forbes. They bore different dates. The first stated that Sir Henry Royson was seriously
ill, and had given urgent instructions that his nephew was to be brought to his bedside. "I
have reason to believe," wrote the lawyer, "that your uncle has sustained some shock, perhaps
arising from the sudden receipt of intelligence hitherto withheld from him, and I would fail
in my duty if I did not urge you to cast aside all other considerations and return to England
at once."

The second letter was even more explicit. "The person from whom I have received information
of your whereabouts," said Mr. Forbes, "has called on me to-day, and the facts he has laid
before me demand your earnest consideration. He is assured that the treasure-hunting expedition
you have joined is a compound of piracy and rascality, in which Mr. Fenshawe is a dupe, having
been misled by a man who has incurred the gravest suspicion of felony. The Italian Government
is taking steps to procure this person's arrest, and, whether or not the charges brought against
him be substantiated, it is an assured thing that the movements of the Aphrodite will be watched,
with a view towards the armed prevention of any landing from her in Italian territory. You
must know that I have the strongest grounds for this statement, or I would not dare place my
opinion in writing. If you think it will serve any useful purpose, I authorize you to show
this letter to Mr. Fenshawe, only stipulating that I am giving him a friendly warning (which
will soon be verified by events) and that my name must not be used in any investigation he
may choose to make. It may help you to arrive at a right decision if I tell you that I have
traced you with the help of Lieutenant the Hon. John S. Paton, of the Coldstream Guards, who
saw an advertisement I inserted in the Times, and gave me the date of a carriage accident in
Buckingham Palace Road, in which you seem to have displayed the courage and resource that might
be looked for in one of your family. Inquiry showed that the carriage was Mr. Fenshawe's, and
one of my clerks, after visiting Mr. Fenshawe's house, was accosted by a man who was able to
prove that he had accurate knowledge of your movements. I am told that he is writing Mr. Fenshawe
fully by this mail, so, in any event, I feel confident of your early departure from Massowah,
believing, as I do, that Mr. Fenshawe will not continue to lend his name to an undertaking
of bad repute."

The third letter, that addressed to "King," was from a Mr. William Fielding, "Confidential
Inquiry Agent," who revealed himself as Mr. Forbes's informant. He wrote in similar strain
to the solicitor, and added: "I have directed the envelope to you in the name under which you
shipped on board the Aphrodite, though I am aware that a telegram sent to you at Marseilles
in your proper name reached you. If you will kindly seek a private interview with Mr. Fenshawe,
and tell him how a man named Alfieri, with others, attacked Baron von Kerber at Marseilles,
and robbed and wounded him without any subsequent protest on his part, you will help in undoing
a great wrong."

Royson was sitting in the balcony veranda on the first floor of the Hotel Grande del Universo
when his astonished eyes skimmed rapidly through these letters. Scarce crediting his senses,
he read them again, word by word, striving to extract from their cryptic sentences that hidden
meaning which lay beneath. Outspoken as the solicitor was, he had evidently left unsaid the
major portion of the strange story within his ken. The new correspondent, too, might or might
not be the man whom Dick had seen in Hyde Park and at Charing Cross Station. But the same curious
guardedness was apparent in each missive. The lawyer dealt in generalities; the private detective
merely asked for the corroboration of a single detail in the statement which, doubtless, awaited
Mr. Fenshawe's perusal among the letters now piled on a table by the side of Miss Fenshawe's chair.

At the thought, Dick turned and looked at Irene. She was smiling at some quip or bit of lively
news in a closely-written sheet. Near her, Mrs. Haxton was engaged more deeply. The letter
clasped in her long slender fingers was as obviously a business document as Irene's was the
crossed and interlined product of a feminine pen overflowing with gossip. Stump was leaning
on the railing of the veranda, contemptuously heedless of the efforts of half a dozen vendors
of carpets, ostrich feathers, fruit, sweets, and Abyssinian curios, who had gathered in the
street beneath and were endeavoring vociferously to secure his patronage for their wares. So
Dick had leisure to think out a line of action, and he saw no reason to dispute the soundness
of the advice given him by Mr. Forbes. If the owner of the Aphrodite were unknowingly lending
himself to an illegal quest, it was the duty of an honest man to warn him. The agreement with
von Kerber stood in the way perhaps. In that case, it must be terminated. Such a resolve was
rather bitter to the taste, but it was unavoidable. To travel home by the next mail steamer
from Aden would be a tame ending to an adventure that promised so well in its initial stages.
And what of his vow not to desert the girl who had placed her faith in him? Well, he would
best serve her by opening Mr. Fenshawe's eyes to the character of his associates, for Dick
had no manner of doubt that Mrs. Haxton was the leading spirit in the plot of which the millionaire
was the "dupe," according to the lawyer.

But Royson had found adversity a hard task-master. He had learnt early the lesson that a man
who takes a leap in the dark should at least jump from firm ground, and when he asked himself
what was the definite charge he would prefer against von Kerber his logic was brought to an
abrupt halt. In plain English, he depended on a few words in the solicitor's letter, and these,
in their turn, were probably inspired by the one-sided statements of the Austrian's avowed
enemy, Alfieri. This consideration brought him back to the starting-point in his review of
a puzzling situation. Fielding, whoever he might be, had done the right thing in placing his
case before Mr. Fenshawe by letter. It would serve to clear the ground, and give scope for
the interference of one who really had no cause of complaint against von Kerber.

"Anyhow," reflected Royson, smiling at the queer manner in which many opposing interests helped
to entangle him in a mesh of difficulties, "I need not rush my fences. Let Fenshawe read his
letter, and, above all else, let me seek counsel from his granddaughter. Then, by happy chance,
I may hit on the right line." When a young man does not want to deprive himself of the company
of a nice young woman, he may be depended on to argue himself into a state of mind which does
not demand such a sacrifice.

At that instant Irene rose and told Captain Stump that she agreed with him--a scrutiny of the
chattering mob in the street was more to her taste than a description of the frocks worn at
the last court ball. Dick pocketed his letters, and would have joined them had he not noticed
that Mrs. Haxton was bending forward in her chair and examining the mixed pile of correspondence
on the table. There was no grave significance in the action, because a number of magazines
and newspapers were mixed with the heap, and these were more or less common property. But Royson,
knowing of the existence of one document of exceeding importance, acted on the principle that
if opportunity makes the thief Mrs. Haxton's reputation should remain unsullied that day if
it lay in his power. He lit a cigar, wheeled his chair slightly, and sat facing her, at a distance
of ten or twelve feet. The open railing of the veranda was half as far away on his right and
on Mrs. Haxton's left. Through the narrow rails they both could see the opposite pavement,
with its dun-colored throng of natives and the gloomy interiors of several small shops, while
the white walls and close- latticed windows of the upper stories seemed to be bleaching visibly
in the slanting rays of a fierce afternoon sun.

Mrs. Haxton, apparently giving no heed to Royson, glanced listlessly at the wrappers and postmark.
The task seemed to prove uninteresting. Soon she selected a periodical, and was about to open
It when a remark from Irene caught her ear.

"That Italian standing in front of the grain-dealer's place seems to be rooted to the ground
with astonishment at seeing strangers in the hotel," said the girl, turning her smiling face
towards her companion.

"Them Dagos is impident pups at times, miss," replied Stump, his red eyes no doubt meeting
the man's stare with a fixity that might have disconcerted most gapers.

"Does he know you, do you think? I happened to see him coming along the street, and as soon
as he saw us he stood stock-still. He has been gazing up here now for the past two or three
minutes."

"I've booted a rare lot of I-talians in my time," said Stump. "I wouldn't be a bit surprised
if he was some loafer I'd helped across a ship's gangway at Genoa or Naples."

"But, captain," laughed Irene, "that man appears to be a superior class."

"Bless yer heart, miss, that's nothin'. By the cut of his jib I'd rate him as a fiddler, an'
I remember once, at Brindisi, I was pointed out two counts an' a markee among the coal-heavers."

Naturally enough, Mrs. Haxton and Dick looked for the person whose singular behavior was under
discussion. Though they had no difficulty in finding him, it was impossible that they themselves
could be seen with any degree of clearness. The railing and the deep shade of the veranda shielded
them effectually. The Italian, a man of middle height, with a finely-molded face and soldierly
aspect, a man whose bearing went far to prove that Stump's general estimate of a great nation
was apt to be wrong, was certainly very much taken up with the appearance of the two figures
leaning over the balcony. But Royson had scarce time to note his main characteristics when
he heard Mrs. Haxton utter a queer gasping sob. It seemed to him that she had only just succeeded
in smothering a scream. Her cheeks suddenly became ashen gray, and her tightly compressed lips
were bloodless. All her beauty fled, as the tints of a rose die under certain varieties of
chemical light. Her eyes dilated in an alarming way, and lines not visible previously now puckered
the corners of her mouth.

Owing to the Babel of tongues in the street, neither Irene nor Captain Stump knew how terribly
the mere sight of the staring Italian had affected Mrs. Haxton. It came to Royson with a flash
of inspiration that this man must be Alfieri, that the woman had recognized him, and that she
feared him with a mortal dread.

He sprang upright and went to her.

"What is it?" he asked, neither raising nor lowering his voice sufficiently to attract attention.
"Are you ill? Shall I call Miss Fenshawe?"

She lifted an appealing hand, and tremblingly essayed to drop her veil. Her languid insolence
had vanished with her good looks. For the moment, she was a broken and despairing woman.

"No, no," she murmured, and the anguish in her voice would have aroused sympathy in a nature
far less impressionable than Royson's. "If you could help me, and all of us, try and find Baron
von Kerber, and tell him--tell him--I sent you with the message that there is one here whom
he must not meet. Oh, what shall I say to make him understand?"

"May I tell him that Alfieri is in Massowah?"

Dick almost regretted the words when he witnessed their tremendous effect. She was on the very
brink of hysteria, and the suddenness of her collapse was painful.

"You--you, too, know Alfieri?" she gasped, looking at him in a very agony of terror.

"I am sorry if I have added to your alarm. I did not mean to do that, Alfieri is unknown to
me, but I heard his name at Marseilles, when he attacked the Baron."

The pity he could not withhold seemed to give her new strength.

"An attack!" She whispered. "At Marseilles! Oh, why was I not told? But you will find him,
at the Governor's house! It is not far--on the seaward point.... The hotel people will supply
a guide.... Baron von Kerber and Alfieri must not meet here. If they do meet, we shall lose
everything.... Tell the Baron to go on board the yacht, no matter what Mr. Fenshawe says. Do
you understand? It is a matter of life and death. Slip out into a back street, so that Alfieri
may not see you.... I will watch from here. Go, for Heaven's sake. Let nothing delay you."

She was incapable of further explanation. Dick feared she would faint if he waited another second.

Hence, when Irene turned to say that Mr. Fenshawe and the Baron appeared to be paying a prolonged
visit to the Governor, she found that Mrs. Haxton was sitting alone, with her veiled face propped
on her hands, while, so malicious was fate's decree once more to Royson, that he was then hastening
through malodorous lanes and crowded slums in order to save from threatened peril the very
man whose downfall offered the only visible means by which he could bend his own frail fortunes
in the direction that looked best to him.

CHAPTER VIII

MASSOWAH ASSERTS ITSELF

Royson knew not one word of Arabic. His Italian was of a rudimentary type, based on some acquaintance
with Latin, eked out by a few phrases gleaned from books of travel. The polite hotel manager's
French was only a shade more fluent. Consequently, the latter told Mulai Hamed, deputy assistant
hall-porter, that the Effendi wished to be conducted to Government House with the utmost secrecy,
thus twisting Dick's simple request, that the guide should avoid the main streets into a mysterious
demand which an Eastern mind could not fail to embroider with intrigue.

For Mulai Hamed was a negroid Arab, whose ruffianly aspect was rather enhanced by the swaggering
way he carried a broad shoulder-belt and brass badge of office. He interpreted his orders literally,
being eager to display a certain skill in conducting to an artistic finish any enterprise that
savored of guile. As soon as the two quitted the hotel, Royson saw that he was traversing by-paths
seldom visited by Europeans. He passed through evil-smelling alleys so shut in by lofty houses
that the sun hardly ever penetrated their depths. He caught glimpses of dun interiors when
forced aside by a panier-laden mule or lumbering camel, and the knowledge was thrust upon him
in many ways that his presence in this minor artery of the bazaar was resented by its inhabitants.

The few females he met were swathed from head to foot in cotton garments that had once been
white. Dark eyes glanced curiously at him over the yashmak, or veil, which covered nose, cheeks,
and mouth from the gaze of strangers. Orange-tinted nails and fingertips, visible occasionally
when the loose fold of a robe was snatched from the contamination of touching him, suggested
the talons of a bird of prey rather than the slender well-shaped hand for which the Arab woman
is noteworthy. Every man, almost without exception, scowled at him. Naked children, playing
in the gutter, ran off, half frightened, yet stopped to shriek words which he was quite sure
were not kindly greetings. Prowling dogs, the scavengers of the native quarter, shared the
general hostility, and scurried out of his path, but sullenly, and with bared teeth. Through
occasional sunlit vistas he peeped into main streets in which loitered numbers of Italian soldiers
and civilians. Even a few carriages appeared, conveying ladies to the shops or public gardens,
now that the intense heat of the sun had subsided. Therefore he found it scarcely credible
that in the fetid slums there should be such covert hatred of the white race which held undisputed
sway in thoroughfares distant not a stone's throw. And, in puzzling contrast to the evidences
of eye and ear, he was conscious of an uncanny sense of familiarity with his surroundings.
Before the Aphrodite brought him south by east he had never been nearer Egypt than Paris. Yet
the sights, the sounds, the nauseating smell of this dank bazaar appealed to him with the breathless
realism that the jingle of hansoms, the steady crunch of omnibuses, the yelling of newsboys
and the tar-laden scent of the wood-paved road might convey when next he entered the Strand.

This entirely novel and disquieting conceit recalled his strange obsession when, first he looked
out over the desert at night from the bows of the yacht, and the memory brought with it the
legend of his house--that the Roysons were descendants of Coeur-de-Lion. He saw now that which
he had never realized from the glowing pages of written romance, that the Crusaders must have
mixed with people nearly identical in manner and speech with the strange human miscellany of
Massowah. During those medieval campaigns in an arid and poverty- stricken land, feudal pomp
and regal glitter would yield perforce to the demands of existence. Richard of England and
Philip of France, with many another noble warrior of high repute, had doubtless been glad enough,
times without number, to seek the shelter and meager fare of just such a jumble of darkened
tenements as that through which his guide was leading him.

But why should he, Richard Royson, acknowledge an occult acquaintance with this unknown scene?
And what was the fascination which the squalid life of the bazaar had exercised occasionally
on men of exalted rank at different periods of the world's history? The mere notion that he
might succumb to it--that he should even feel its glamour by the operation of some subtle trait
of heredity--was so grotesque that he laughed aloud.

He happened to be crossing a tiny square at the moment, and a bearded moullah was entering
a mosque which filled one whole side of it. The unbeliever's mirth doubtless disturbed a pious
meditation, and the moullah turned and muttered something. The words might be a verse of the
Koran, but they had the ring of a malediction.

Mulai Hamed was abashed and angry. He spoke apologetically to the holy man, alluded to the
"giaour" more than once, and proceeded to give Dick a voluble lecture, enlightening him, most
probably, as to the exceeding importance of politeness where a Mahomedan priest was concerned.

Royson was unable to explain that his hilarity was not intended as a slight on the follower
of the Prophet. Yet dignity demanded he should not remain dumb, so he pointed ahead, and vociferated,
with a fairly accurate assumption of his skipper's voice and manner:

"Lead on, you swab, and keep silent, or I'll alter the shape of your face."

It sufficed, nor was he wholly mistaken in his rough-and-ready philosophy, for it is thus that
the West dominates the East. The incident had the further effect of arousing Royson to actualities.
He dismissed his day-dream, and bent his wits to consideration of the queer message which Mrs.
Haxton had asked him to deliver. Would the Austrian obey her, he wondered? A man's point of
view and a woman's differ materially when the graver crises of life have to be faced. If it
were merely a question of physical courage, Dick imagined that the Baron would refuse to play
the coward's part by skulking on board the yacht. In that event, von Kerber and Alfieri could
hardly fail to meet within the hour, for Massowah was a small place. Nor was it altogether
probable that bloodshed would be the outcome. The affray at Marseilles had given the Italian
an excellent opportunity for settling old scores in that fashion if he were so minded. At any
rate, the position was rife with dramatic possibilities, and each that presented itself to
Dick's judgment seemed to favor his own projects, which now demanded a speedy return to England.
Yet he hoped to arrange his departure in such wise that Irene Fenshawe might not have it in
her heart that he had deserted her.

Dick did not admit, even to himself, that he had any well-defined motive, other than the fulfilment
of a promise, for wishing to stand well in the girl's esteem.

"I may be a potential baronet," he communed, "but I am not such a fool as to fall in love with
the heiress of a man like Fenshawe. A baronet, indeed! Hardly a month ago I was tramping the
streets of London looking for work. One does not, under those conditions, include in the list
of prospective occupations marriage with a young lady worth a million or two."

It was surprising how bitter this very sensible reflection could be. It disturbed his placid
temper. He felt like railing at fate for ill- usage. Fortunately, Mulai Hamed had no further
cause to chide the Effendi on account of his seeming irreverence, or Dick's copying of Stump's
methods might not have been confined to speech.

But it was a remarkable fact, worthy of high relief in the fresco of weird and startling events
then vaguely grouping themselves, that Royson first dreamed of love, even as a fantastic idyll
where Irene Fenshawe was concerned, while he was hurrying through the native quarter of Massowah
on a mission destined to change the whole course of his life.

For the hour was at hand when he would be tried by tests that few men might endure. Treading
close on the heels of his guide, he emerged from a cramped arch into a spacious parade-ground.
A regiment of bersaglieri was assembling for drill during the comparatively cool interval before
sunset, and, on the seaward side of the plain, a squat fort pointed its guns at town and harbor.

Mulai Hamed hastened towards the nearest gate. He did not enter, but his gestures showed that
the Governor's residence stood inside the fortifications. Royson went on alone, and was stopped
by a sentry, who called a corporal; the latter conducted him to a lieutenant, and thenceforth
Dick's progress was simplified, because the officer not only spoke English but was ready to
display his erudition, though, not exactly in the manner desired by his questioner.

When Royson said he wanted to communicate with two gentlemen who had called on the Governor
some two hours earlier, the Italian smiled darkly.

"They landed from the English yacht out there?" he asked, with a hand- flourish that indicated
the Red Sea generally and the Aphrodite in particular.

"Yes."

"And you are one of the ship's officers?"

"Yes," said Dick again.

"Well, I have no orders. I advise you to go on board, and await his Excellency's decision."

"It will be most gratifying to learn his Excellency's decision," said Royson, "but just at
this moment I must ascertain the whereabouts of Mr. Fenshawe and Baron von Kerber."

The lieutenant spread both hands deprecatingly.

"What is one to say?" he shrugged, arching his eyebrows and pursing his lips, "I repeat, I
have no orders."

"But you have seen them?"

"Oh, yes. They are here."

"Then will you oblige me by sending in my name to Baron von Kerber, and saying--"

"It is impossible. Go to your ship. I speak as a friend."

"I am sure you wish to help me," persisted Dick, "but I am carrying a message of some importance--"
"Ah, from whom?"

"From a lady."

"Who is she?"

"One of the ladies of our party."

"Ahi, crudo Amor! You have ladies on board, then?"

"Yes, Mr. Fenshawe's granddaughter, and--a friend of hers."

Something in the Italian's manner warned Royson that he was treading on unsafe ground. It occurred
to him that if Mrs. Haxton had good reason for her display of fear at the sight of Alfieri
it was advisable not to spread the tidings of her presence in Massowah by revealing it to an
inquisitive official. And the warning given in one of the letters in his pocket suddenly assumed
a sinister significance. He strove against any outward exhibition of concern, and the lieutenant
was manifestly anxious to help him.

"I am sorry," was the unsatisfying statement. "I can do nothing without his Excellency's instructions,
and he has gone out for a drive."

"Gone out for a drive!" repeated Royson, quite taken aback by this rather bewildering explanation.
"Am I to understand that my friends are kept here--"

"You are to understand nothing but what I have told you, and you will remember that I have
contented myself with advising you to return to your yacht."

It was evident that no good end could be achieved by striving to saddle the courteous officer
with any responsibility for his admissions. Dick took the cue thus offered, and tried another line.

"Will you kindly tell me at what hour the Governor returns?" he asked.

"Certainly. He will be here in twenty minutes."

"May I wait until he arrives?"

"Nothing would give me greater pleasure."

The lieutenant clapped his hands, and an orderly appeared.

"Some wine, ice, and cigarettes," he commanded. He engaged Dick instantly in conversation as
to the prospects of war in South Africa, and was obviously desirous not to discuss personal
matters. He was a decent fellow, and an enthusiastic admirer of the British soldier, of whom
he had seen a good deal during a visit to Aden, so the talk did not flag till the clatter of
hoofs through the vaulted gateway announced the advent of a carriage.

The Governor, a fat, unhealthy-looking man, whose seamed brow and puffy eyelids suggested that
negotiations with King Menelek did not constitute the highest form of diplomatic happiness,
was pleased to be explicit when Dick was introduced to him, and he found that the Englishman
spoke French.

"After consultation with the Government advocate," he said, "I have decided to release Mr.
Fenshawe, whose arrest was due to his persistent defense of Baron Franz von Kerber's undertaking.
The latter must remain in custody, and I warn you, and intend to give the same warning to all
persons on board your vessel, that a gunboat is patrolling the coast with the most positive
instructions to sink the Aphrodite if any attempt be made to land on Italian territory, elsewhere
than at a recognized port."

His Excellency had cultivated the habit of plain speaking, which is an essential part of all
dealings with Abyssinians. Royson did not attempt to answer him. He asked if Mr. Fenshawe would
be set at liberty forthwith, and was assured that the Governor's own carriage would convey
both Mr. Fenshawe and himself to the hotel within a few minutes. The big little man then vanished,
and Dick soon had the satisfaction of seeing Irene's grandfather escorted to the inner courtyard
by a file of soldiers.

It was a singular meeting between the two. Though the yacht-owner was white with anger, he
was manifestly pleased at finding Royson there.

"Ah," he said, extending his hand, "I am glad to see you. Does Miss Fenshawe know of this outrage?"

"No, sir. I think not. Indeed, I am almost positive she has not heard of it."

"Then why are you here?"

"Mrs. Haxton sent me with a message to Baron von Kerber."

"Mrs. Haxton probably guessed what would happen. Some scoundrel named Alfieri, who has tried
more than once to steal my poor friend's secret, has gained the ear of the Italian foreign
minister. Trumped-up allegations have led to cabled orders for von Kerber's arrest, and these
wretched organ-grinders in uniform would have lodged every one of us in prison if they dared.
Unhappily, the Baron is an Austrian subject, and there will be considerable delay before I
can secure his freedom. We must make for Aden at once. I will not trust the cable from Massowah.
By Jove, I have been a supporter of peace all my life, Mr. Royson, but it is a lucky thing
for this thieves' den that I have not an armed ship now at my disposal, or I would blow their
fort out of its foundations."

The older man little knew how this outburst affected Royson. The reference to Alfieri was absolutely
staggering. No up-to-date battleship could have demolished the Massowah fortress so effectually
as Mr. Fenshawe's outspoken wrath crumbled the edifice of doubt built by circumstances in Royson's
mind.

"Things have taken an extraordinary turn, sir," said he, feeling it incumbent on him to say
something.

"They will turn an Italian Governor out of his position before I have done with them," was
the determined answer. "Come, Mr. Royson, let us leave this man-trap. I came here In good faith,
and I quit the place with the resolution that never again shall I entrust myself to the vagaries
of any Jack-in-office who thinks he can browbeat a man of my repute like one of the wretched
natives whom he misrules."

Royson had some difficulty in persuading his irate employer to enter the Governor's carriage.
Mr. Fenshawe only yielded to the plea that it was a stiff walk to the hotel, and his granddaughter
would be consumed with anxiety if any alarming news had reached her meanwhile.

The coachman took them by an open road facing the harbor. The sight of the Aphrodite lying
at anchor, trimly elegant in white paint and neatly-furled sails, and sporting the ensign of
a famous yacht club, led Dick to ask if his companion knew that an Italian gunboat was on the
lookout for her.

"Oh, yes. His Excellency spared me no details," said Mr. Fenshawe, smiling sarcastically. "If
I were a few years younger, and we had no women on board, I would not allow any threats of
that sort to hinder me, and I am much mistaken in my officers and men if they refused to back
me up. But, as it is, we can do nothing. That is what galls me, my complete helplessness."

"We have no heavy guns, I admit," said Dick, casting to the winds all thought of leaving the
ship under present conditions, "but we have arms and ammunition in plenty to make it hot work
for any one in Massowah to stop us once we are ashore."

The other sighed, whether on account of his vanished youth or the impracticable nature of the
scheme, it is hard to say.

"Our weapons are meant only for defense," he said. "Von Kerber wished to guard against Arab
hostility--that is all. But I do not despair of obtaining redress from Rome. Surely it cannot
be known there that I am the leader of this expedition. It is so wildly absurd to treat me
as a filibuster. Why, Mr. Royson, the Italian Archeological Society elected me an honorary
vice-president ten years ago."

Dick had his own views as to the extent of the Aphrodite's armament, but the present was no
time to air them. Moreover, he was beginning to see features of the affair that were hard to
reconcile with Mr. Fenshawe's statements. In the first instance, the Governor had acted on
specific Instructions, and the Roman authorities must have been well aware of the identity
of the yacht's owner. Again, the person really aimed at in these high-handed proceedings was
von Kerber. The Governor made no secret of the fact that the millionaire was detained solely
because he declared himself a principal in the Austrian's enterprise, and it was no small token
of official regret at an unpleasant incident that they were now driving to the hotel in His
Excellency's private carriage. Finally, none but a man angry and humiliated would deny the
right of Italy to forbid the passage through her colonial territory of a foreign force such
as von Kerber had provided, a force equipped to an extent and in a manner that Mr. Fenshawe,
in all likelihood, had slight knowledge of.

So Dick listened in silence to his companion's vows of diplomatic vengeance. He was resolved
to talk matters over with Miss Fenshawe before he said a word about Alfieri or the news he
had received from London. In fact, he had little doubt that a night's reflection would render
her grandfather amenable to reason. If there were charges against von Kerber, let them be brought
to light. If they were true, the Italian Foreign Office was justified in its action: if false,
there would be such a hubbub that the resultant apologies would certainly be accompanied by
the offer of every assistance to the objects of the expedition.

When they drew near the hotel, Royson saw Irene watching the main street anxiously from the
balcony. It was rather remarkable that she should be alone, but all other thoughts were swept
aside by the sight of the joy which lit her face when the carriage stopped at the portico and
she learned that her grandfather had arrived from an opposite direction.

They heard her glad cry of surprise, and she hastened to meet them.

"Good gracious, grandad," she said, "where have you been? I have waited here for you ever so
long, wondering what had become of you."

"The Governor was such an affable person that he refused to let me go," said Mr. Fenshawe grimly.
"He has detained the Baron altogether. But let us go up-stairs. I am pining for that long-deferred
tea. Where is Mrs. Haxton?"

"She is ill, I am afraid. She found the heat and noise too much for her. Half an hour ago she
asked Captain Stump to take her to the yacht. Of course I told her I didn't mind being left
here until some one came. But the funny part of it is that, although I was looking from the
veranda, I failed to see either her or the captain leave the hotel."

By this time they were free from inquisitive eyes or ears, and Mr. Fenshawe proceeded to amaze
the girl with a full recital of his disagreeable adventure. Royson noticed that she gave no
heed whatever to his share in it. Her attitude was tinged with a slight disdain, and he began
to feel miserably depressed until it occurred to him that she probably resented his departure
on Mrs. Haxton's errand without letting her know. That was consoling, to an extent. He was
sure she would forgive him when he had an opportunity of telling her exactly what had happened.

They were so engrossed in their conclave that a servant entered with lamps before they realized
that daylight had waned and night was falling with the rapidity of the tropics. Mr. Fenshawe
leaped up from his chair with an alertness that belied his years.

"I must break my resolution and send at least one cablegram from Massowah," he cried. "It will
be harmless enough to escape mutilation, as it is to my London office directing that all correspondence
must be addressed to Aden in future. You will take it for me, Royson, and pay the cost?"

Dick went off as soon as the message was ready. Irene avoided him ostentatiously while her
grandfather was writing, and thereby laid herself open to the unjust suspicion that she was
flirting with him. In very truth, she was torn with misgiving, and Royson's share in her thoughts
was even less than he imagined. Her quick brain divined that the arrest of von Kerber had only
strengthened the Austrian's claim on Mr. Fenshawe's sympathies. Like all generous-souled men,
her grandfather ran to extremes, and she felt that it was hopeless now to try and shake his
faith in one whom he regarded as the victim of persecution.

"Will Captain Stump come back for dinner?" inquired Mr. Fenshawe, after he had glanced through
the letters which Irene brought to him.

"I hope so. Mrs. Haxton went off in such a hurry that I forgot to mention it."

"Was it illness, or anxiety, that sent her to the yacht?"

"A little of both, I fancy. But why should she be anxious? She did not know that matters had
gone wrong at the fort."

"I think she made a shrewd guess, but was unwilling to alarm you. That is why she sent Mr.
Royson after us. By the way, what, did she tell him to do?"

"I have no idea," said Irene coldly.

"That is odd, distinctly odd. I meant to ask him, but forgot it in my excitement."

"He will be here in a few minutes," said she, with a livelier interest.

There was a knock at the door. A negro waiter had something to say, and she gathered from a
jumble of Italian and Arabic that a native wished to see the Signora Haxton. The man pronounced
the name plainly, so there could be no mistake as to his meaning, and Irene answered:

"The Signora is not here."

Mr. Fenshawe was immersed in his letters again, but he looked up.

"What is it?" he demanded.

"Some man is asking for Mrs. Haxton," she told him.

"Better go and interview him. If he can tell us anything, bring him here."

She went down-stairs with the attendant. He pointed to a muffled Arab near the door, who salaamed
deeply the instant she appeared.

"What do you want?" she said, in Italian, and the Arab silently indicated a closed vehicle
drawn up close to the curb in front of the hotel. Thinking there was some visitor inside who
did not wish to alight, she went forward without hesitation. The dim, smoke-laden street was
unusually crowded, she thought, but she gave no attention to the passers-by, as the Arab had
opened the door of the dingy-looking vehicle, and she expected to find an occupant peering
out at her.

The conveyance was empty!

"There is some mistake," she said, glancing from the dark interior to a Somali driver, and
then back to the silent messenger. Suddenly she had an unnerving consciousness that several
other white-sheeted figures had crept stealthily between her and the doorway. With a little
cry of alarm, she turned and strove to re-enter the hotel. Instantly she was swept off her
feet, a coarse hand closed on her mouth, and she was dragged with brutal force into the carriage.
She saw spring into existence what seemed to be a murderous fracas among a dozen men. The street
was filled with clamor, and the pavement was blocked with struggling forms. Knives flashed,
brawny-armed Arabs closed in deadly combat, and cursed each other with all the rich repertory
of Islam. Of course, people tried to rush from the vestibule of the hotel to ascertain what
was causing the tumult. But the fighters filled the doorway so that none could enter or leave
the building, and, in the midst of the alarm and confusion, the pair of Somali ponies attached
to the ramshackle vehicle were whipped into a fast gallop. Then the riot subsided as quickly
as it arose, and, were it not that Irene was gone, no one appeared to be much the worse.

CHAPTER IX

A GALLOP IN THE DARK

Several minor rills of events combined to produce this tempestuous torrent at the door of the
Hotel Grande del Universe, and any level- headed man acquainted with their meanderings might
come to the just conclusion that Irene had been kidnapped in mistake for Mrs. Haxton. He might
have deplored the blunder, but, leaving out of count any humane consideration for the girl's
feelings, he must have admired the stage- craft displayed by her abductors. If cool skill were
worthy of success they had earned it in full measure. In fact, the achievement would have ranked
high in the villainous annals of Massowah were it not for the blind chance that separated Mulai
Hamed from Royson two hours earlier.

The sun sank behind the highlands of Abyssinia while the Effendi awaited the Governor's return
in the guard-room of the fort. Thereupon his guide, being an orthodox Mahomedan, faced towards
Mecca, knelt by the roadside, and bowed his forehead in the dust. Another devout follower of
the Prophet joined him, and the two chanted their prayers in unison. It is said that hymns
are seldom sung with such gusto as in convict settlements, and, appraised by this standard,
Mulai Hamed and his casual companion were accomplished rascals, for they rattled off the Salat
and the Sunnah unctuously, and performed the genuflections and prostrations of the Reka with
military precision.

Then they exchanged news. Mulai Hamed, telling of the Giaours in the hotel, was vastly surprised
to hear from his brother Mussulman, a cook in the fort, that two of the Effendis were prisoners.
But the cook soon hastened away to decapitate certain skinny fowls which would form the basis
of a Risotto al pollastro for dinner at the officer's mess, leaving Mulai Hamed to wonder if,
perhaps, the tall Effendi had also been kept in durance vile, until he saw Mr. Fenshawe and
Royson being whirled off in the Governor's carriage along the sea front.

He cursed both of them in suitable terms, and started on the long walk to the hotel. Being
a born gossip, he chose the livelier route of the main street, which might yield a meeting
with another acquaintance. This divergence led him near the Elephant Mosque. Abdullah, wearied
of the rendezvous arranged by Mrs. Haxton for von Kerber, detected Mulai Hamed's badge, and
sought information.

"Brother," said he, "I would have speech of thee." "Say on," was the courteous reply, for Mulai
Hamed was flattered at being addressed thus by a man of distinction.

"There be certain Giaours at thy caravanserai, an old man, a fat man like a bull, a young man
who stands more than a cubit high, and a thin man, the Hakim Effendi, whom I await here. Hast
thou any knowledge of them?"

Mulai Hamed checked the list carefully.

"It must be," said he at last, "that the Hakim Effendi is in jail, for the others I have seen,
but not him."

Abdullah was annoyed. He, a pure-blooded Bedouin of the desert, had already made a great concession
In using the word "brother" to one of mixed race.

"I asked not for folly," he muttered. "That is the answer of a drunken Frank."

"Nay, friend, I speak truly. May I never drink at the White Pond of the Prophet if I have not
told thee even that which I have heard."

Abdullah swallowed his wrath, listened to Mulai Hamed's story, and was convinced. Notwithstanding
Mrs. Haxton's prohibition, it was now essential that he should see her without delay, so he
accompanied the deputy assistant hall-porter in the direction of the hotel. As they went, they
met a rickety closed carriage being driven at a furious rate down a side street, and both men
thought it was making for the mile- long causeway which connects the island of Massowah with
the mainland.

"Who travels in such a hurry?" asked Abdullah, looking after the swaying vehicle.

"Perchance a kafila starts for the interior to-night," said Mulai Hamed. But the turmoil in
the vicinity of the hotel now drew their attention, and they ran with others, for public blood-letting
is ever an attractive pastime to those who form the audience.

Dick was then leaving the telegraph-office, whence he had despatched a cablegram on his own
account. Bare civility demanded that he should acknowledge Mr. Forbes's various communications,
so he sent the brief message: "Writing, Royson," which, he thought, covered the ground sufficiently.
Before rejoining Mr. Fenshawe and Irene, he walked a little way towards the harbor, and, as
he half expected, met Stump returning from the yacht.

He proceeded to astonish that stout mariner with the evening's budget, but Stump had been thinking
things out in his own fashion, and he set forth a theory which apparently accounted for von
Kerber's discomfiture.

"You see, it's this way," said he. "These bloomin' I-talians have got the griffin about that
treasure. And who gev' it to 'em? Why, that chap who arranged the hold-up at Marseilles. You
said nothin' much about it, which was right an' proper, but Tagg is sharper'n he looks, an'
he tole me that a paper was nicked out of von Kerber's pocket. That paper put the sharks on
the scent. They got ahead of the Aphrodite by catchin' the Indian mail at Brindisi, an' had
everything cut an' dried for us when we dropped anchor here. Miss Irene an' me spotted one
of 'em watchin' the hotel this afternoon."

"I believe that man was Alfieri," said Dick, "Indeed, Mrs. Haxton admitted it to me, and it
was his unexpected appearance that caused her to beat a retreat."

"An' who's Mr. Alfie Wot's-his-name?" broke in Stump.

"I'm sorry. I forgot that you had not heard of him. He is the man who secured the papyrus,
or paper, at Marseilles. Both Mrs. Haxton and the Baron are afraid of him."

"You seem to know a dooce of a lot about this business," exclaimed the skipper testily.

"I cannot help that--I have been dragged into it in many ways, each peculiar, and hardly credible
when considered collectively. I promise you, captain, that I shall tell you the whole story
one of these days. Meanwhile, I think that the sooner we are at Aden the better it will be
for Mr. Fenshawe and the ladies, and I offer you the respectful advice that you should back
up Miss Fenshawe if she tries to persuade her grandfather to go there at once."

"Funny thing," growled Stump, "but them's Mrs. Haxton's very words as I helped her up the ship's
ladder. Hello! Where's the fire? Unless I'm much mistaken, young feller, there's a first-class
row goin' on outside our bloomin' cafe. No, no, don't you butt in among Arabs as though you
was strollin' down Edgware Road on a Saturday night, an' get mixed up in a coster rough-an'-tumble.
These long-legged swine would knife you just for the fun of it. Keep full an' by, an' let any
son of a gun who comes too near have it where it'll stop him."

Stump's sound precautions were unnecessary. None of the combatants approached them. Indeed,
the struggle ceased as quickly as it began, and they were in the hotel before the frightened
servants dared make known the thrilling fact that the young lady was missing. The negro who
accompanied her down-stairs was positive that she had gone off of her own accord in the carriage
that was standing outside, but Mr. Fenshawe's frantic protestations when the scared manager
told him what had happened convinced Royson that the servant's statement was wildly absurd.
Moreover, it became clearer each second that Mrs. Haxton, and not Irene, was the prize sought
by the marauders. Royson, though in a white heat of helpless rage, soon became alive to this
element in an otherwise inexplicable outrage, and endeavored to soothe Mr. Fenshawe's wild-eyed
alarm by telling him the girl would surely be sent back as soon as the error was discovered.

There was no time for explanations. All was panic and useless running to and fro. A messenger
was sent to summon the police, and matters were in a state of chaos when Royson was approached
by an Arab whose clearly-chiseled features, arched eyebrows and high cheek-bones showed that
he was of different lineage to the hybrids of the coast. His carriage, too, was that of a man
of consequence, and he wore his burnous rather in the Algerian style. This was Abdullah, who
had gathered from the negro's now almost incoherent words that Mrs. Haxton had been spirited
away In the carriage. He had his own reasons for believing that the lady would encounter difficulties
in Massowah, and the man spoke her name readily, whereas Miss Fenshawe's was unknown to either
of them.

"Monsieur," said he, addressing Dick quietly in excellent French, "can you ride?"

"Yes," said Dick, hoping against hope that this calm-eyed stranger might be able to give him
some sorely needed clue as to the manner, at least, of Irene's capture.

"Come with me, then," continued Abdullah, in the same guarded tone. "I think I may be able
to find out where Madame has been taken."

"You can demand your own reward if you speak truly," said Dick. "Let me bring you to Mr. Fenshawe.
He will tell you--"

"I seek the aid of none but you," whispered Abdullah, "I come to you only because you are a
European, and I must have some one to justify me lest trouble should arise. I am unknown here,
and my words would fall on deaf ears. You look like a man who can handle affairs. Come monsieur,
we are losing time."

"But I must tell my friends."

"No, that is not to be thought of, monsieur. If I am right, you and I alone must deal with
this affair. These others are excited. They will shout their news to the whole bazaar. And,
if we fail, we shall return in half an hour. Not a word to any one, but follow me."

Abdullah had the air of a man who knew his own mind. He strode away at once without looking
to right or left, and Royson yielded to the impulse which bade him not hesitate but accept
the proffered assistance in the search for Irene. Action of any sort was preferable to a maddening
wait for tardy officialdom, so he hastened after the Arab.

The latter turned into the first side street. The absence of lamps, and a thin stratum of smoke
clinging to the surface of the ground, made the gloom almost impenetrable, but Abdullah kept
on with unhesitating steps, and Royson walked behind him rather than risk the chance of colliding
with the strange shapes of men and animals which often loomed up abruptly out of the void.

In a few minutes the smoke-cloud cleared, and he found that they had reached the outskirts
of the native quarter. The houses were no longer huddled together; small hovels took the place
of cramped and lofty tenements. Soon he could see dark masses of hills silhouetted against
the sky, where its dense blue merged into the amber and green of the last flicker of daylight.
Not far distant, a sheet of water, still as a mirror, reflected sky and hills in even more
pronounced chiaroscuro, and he had just distinguished the straight black ridge of the landward
causeway when Abdullah dived into a wattle-built hut.

The Arab had not uttered a syllable during their rapid walk, and Royson determined not to question
him, since his offer of help was made voluntarily, and he seemed to prefer silence to speech.
The Englishman was undecided whether or not to enter the hut, which was apparently untenanted,
but the eager whinny of a horse quickly explained Abdullah's disappearance. There was some
stamping of unshod hoofs on the hard earth, some straining of girths and clink of steel, and
the Arab led forth a slenderly built animal which, at first sight, seemed to be far too light
for a rider of Dick's proportions.

The horse's owner, however, showed no misgivings on this point. He handed the bridle to Dick.

"Attendez ici un moment, s'il vous plait, monsieur" he said, and ran off towards another hut.
The horse tried to follow its master, and Royson found distraction for a jumble of incoherent
thoughts in the need there was to restrain its fretfulness. The animal was afraid of him; in
all probability it had never before been handled by a European, but Dick spoke to it in the
lingua franca of the stable, and he was soon allowed to stroke the arched neck and twine his
fingers in the thick yellow mane.

Abdullah did not return so speedily as was his intent. He had gone to borrow another mount,
and met with delay, because the owner was in the bazaar. But fortune helped him by sending
the man back earlier than usual for the evening meal, and when he cantered up after an absence
of ten minutes, he lost no more time.

"You are sure you can ride well, monsieur?" he demanded.

"Quite sure."

"Into the saddle, then, and let the reins hang loose. Moti will carry you safely, and it is
but a broken road over the bridge."

