Hence it came about, by a natural but somewhat rapid process, that the only dialect which remained
unaffected by the triumph of the Midland variety was that portion of the Northern dialect which
still held its own in Scotland, where it was spoken by subjects of another king. As far as
literature was concerned, only two dialects were available, the Northumbrian of Scotland and
the East Midland in England. It is obvious that the readiest way of distinguishing between
the two is to call the one "Scottish" and the other "English," ignoring accuracy for the sake
of practical convenience. This is precisely what happened in course of time, and the new nomenclature
would have done no harm if the study of Middle English had been at all general. But such was
not the case, and the history of our literature was so much neglected that even those who should
have been well informed knew no better than others. The chief modern example is the well-known
case of that most important and valuable book entitled An Etymological Dictionary of the Scottish
Language, by John Jamieson, D.D., first published in Edinburgh in 1808. There is no great harm
in the title, if for "Language" we read "Dialect"; but this great and monumental work was unluckily
preceded by a "Dissertation on the Origin of the Scottish Language," in which wholly mistaken
and wrongheaded views are supported with great ingenuity and much show of learning. In the
admirable new edition of "Jamieson" by Longmuir and Donaldson, published at Paisley in 1879,
this matter is set right. They quite rightly reprint this "Dissertation," which affords valuable
testimony as to the study of English in 1808, but accompany it with most judicious remarks,
which are well worthy of full repetition.

  "That once famous Dissertation can now be considered only a notable
  feat of literary card-building; more remarkable for the skill and
  ingenuity of its construction than for its architectural correctness,
  strength and durability, or practical usefulness. That the language
  of the Scottish Lowlands is in all important particulars the same
  as that of the northern counties of England, will be evident to
  any unbiassed reader who takes the trouble to compare the Scottish
  Dictionary with the Glossaries of Brockett, Atkinson, and Peacock.
  And the similarity is attested in another way by the simple but
  important fact, that regarding some of our Northern Metrical
  Romances it is still disputed whether they were composed to the
  north or the south of the Tweed.... And to this conclusion all
  competent scholars have given their consent."

For those who really understand the situation there is no harm in accepting the distinction
between "Scottish" and "English," as explained above. Hence it is that the name of "Middle
Scots" has been suggested for "the literary language of Scotland written between the latter
half of the fifteenth century and the early decades of the seventeenth." Most of this literature
is highly interesting, at any rate much more so than the "English" literature of the same period,
as has been repeatedly remarked. Indeed, this is so well known that special examples are needless;
I content myself with referring to the Specimens of Middle Scots, by G. Gregory Smith, Edinburgh
and London, 1902. These specimens include extracts from such famous authors as Henryson, Dunbar,
Gawain (or Gavin) Douglas, Sir David Lyndesay, John Knox, and George Buchanan. Perhaps it is
well to add that "Scottis" or "Scots" is the Northern form of "Scottish" or "Scotch"; just
as "Inglis" is the Northern form of "English."

"Middle Scots" implies both "Old Scots" and "Modern Scots." "Old Scots" is, of course, the
same thing as Northumbrian or Northern English of the Middle English Period, which may be roughly
dated as extant from 1300 to 1400 or 1450. "Modern Scots" is the dialect (when they employ
dialect) illustrated by Allan Ramsay, Alexander Ross, Robert Tannahill, John Galt, James Hogg
(the Ettrick Shepherd), Robert Burns, Sir Walter Scott, and very many others.

I conclude this chapter with a characteristic example of Middle Scots. The following well-known
passage is from the conclusion to Dunbar's Golden Targe.

  And as I did awake of my sweving{1},
  The ioyfull birdis merily did syng
    For myrth of Phebus tendir bemës schene{2};
  Swete war the vapouris, soft the morowing{3},
  Halesum the vale, depaynt wyth flouris ying{4};
    The air attemperit, sobir, and amene{5};
    In quhite and rede was all the feld besene{6}
  Throu Naturis nobil fresch anamalyng{7},
    In mirthfull May, of eviry moneth Quene.

  O reverend Chaucere, rose of rethoris{8} all,
  As in oure tong ane flour{9} imperiall,
    That raise{10} in Britane evir, quho redis rycht,
  Thou beris of makaris{11} the tryúmph riall;
  Thy fresch anamalit termës celicall{12}
    This mater coud illumynit have full brycht;
    Was thou noucht of oure Inglisch all the lycht,
  Surmounting eviry tong terrestriall
    Als fer as Mayis morow dois mydnycht?

  O morall Gower, and Ludgate laureate,
  Your sugurit lippis and tongis aureate{13}
    Bene to oure eris cause of grete delyte;
  Your angel mouthis most mellifluate{14}
  Oure rude langage has clere illumynate,
    And faire our-gilt{15} oure speche, that imperfýte
    Stude, or{16} your goldyn pennis schupe{17} to wryte;
  This ile before was bare, and desolate
    Of rethorike, or lusty{18} fresch endyte{19}.

  {Footnotes:
    1: dream
    2: bright
    3: morn
    4: young
    5: pleasant
    6: arrayed
    7: enamelling
    8: orators
    9: flower
   10: didst rise
   11: poets
   12: heavenly
   13: golden
   14: honeyed
   15: overgilt
   16: ere
   17: undertook
   18: pleasant
   19: composition}

CHAPTER VI

THE SOUTHERN DIALECT

We have seen that the earliest dialect to assume literary supremacy was the Northern, and that
at a very early date, namely, in the seventh, eighth, and ninth centuries; but its early documents
have nearly all perished. If, with the exception of one short fragment, any of Cædmon's poems
have survived, they only exist in Southern versions of a much later date.

The chief fosterer of our rather extensive Wessex (or Southern) literature, commonly called
Anglo-Saxon, was the great Alfred, born at Wantage in Berkshire, to the south of the Thames.
We may roughly define the limits of the Old Southern dialect by saying that it formerly included
all the counties to the south of the Thames and to the west and south-west of Berkshire, including
Wiltshire, Dorsetshire, Somersetshire, and Devonshire, but excluding Cornwall, in which the
Cornish dialect of Celtic prevailed. It was at Athelney in Somersetshire, near the junction
of the rivers Tone and Parrett, that Alfred, in the memorable year 878, when his dominions
were reduced to a precarious sway over two or three counties, established his famous stronghold;
from which he issued to inflict upon the foes of the future British empire a crushing and decisive
defeat. And it was near Athelney, in the year 1693, that the ornament of gold and enamel was
found, with its famous legend--ÆLFRED MEC HEHT GEWYRCAN--"Ælfred commanded (men) to make me."

From his date to the Norman Conquest, the MSS. in the Anglo-Saxon or Southern dialect are fairly
numerous, and it is mainly to them that we owe our knowledge of the grammar, the metre, and
the pronunciation of the older forms of English. Sweet's Anglo-Saxon Primer will enable any
one to begin the study of this dialect, and to learn something valuable about it in the course
of a month or two.

The famous Anglo-Saxon Chronicle, beginning with a note concerning the year 1, when Augustus
was emperor of Rome, not only continues our history down to the Conquest, but for nearly a
century beyond it, to the year 1154. The language of the latter part, as extant in the (Midland)
Laud MS., belongs to the twelfth century, and shows considerable changes in the spelling and
grammar as compared with the Parker MS., which (not counting in a few later entries) ends with
the year 1001.

After the Conquest, the Southern dialect continued to be the literary language, and we have
several examples of it. Extracts from some of the chief works are given in Part I of Morris's
Specimens of Early English. They are selected from the following: (1) Old English Homilies,
1150-1200, as printed for the Early English Text Society, and edited by Dr Morris, 1867-8.
(2) Old English Homilies, Second Series, before 1200, ed. Morris (E.E.T.S.), 1873. (3) The
Brut, being a versified chronicle of the legendary history of Britain, compiled by Layamon,
a Worcestershire priest, and extending to 32,240 (short) lines; in two versions, the date of
the earlier being about 1205. (4) A Life of St Juliana, in two versions, about 1210; ed. Cockayne
and Brock (E.E.T.S.), 1872. (5) The Ancren Riwle, or Rule of anchorite nuns (Camden Society),
ed. Morton, 1853; the date of composition is about 1210. (6) The Proverbs of Alfred, about
1250; printed in Dr Morris's Old English Miscellany (E.E.T.S.), 1872. A later edition, by myself,
was printed at Oxford in 1907. (7) A poem by Nicholas de Guildford, entitled The Owl and the
Nightingale, about 1250; ed. Rev. J. Stevenson, 1838; ed. T. Wright, 1843; ed. F.H. Stratmann,
of Krefeld, 1868. (8) A curious poem of nearly 400 long lines, usually known as A Moral Ode,
which seems to have been originally written at Christchurch, Hampshire, and frequently printed;
one version is in Morris's Old English Homilies, and another in the Second Series of the same.
(9) The Romance of King Horn; before 1300, here printed in full.

Just at the very end of the century we meet with two Southern poems of vast length. The Metrical
Chronicle of Robert of Gloucester, comprising the History of Britain from the Siege of Troy
to the year 1272, the date of the accession of Edward I, and written in the dialect of Gloucester,
was completed in 1298. It must seem strange to many to find that our history is thus connected
with the Siege of Troy; but it must be remembered that our old histories, including Layamon's
poem of The Brut mentioned above, usually included the fabulous history of very early Britain
as narrated by Geoffrey of Monmouth; and it is useful to remember that we owe to this circumstance
such important works as Shakespeare's King Lear and Cymbeline, as well as the old play of Locrine,
once attributed to Shakespeare. According to Robert's version of Geoffrey's story, Britain
was originally called Brutain, after Brut or Brutus, the son of Æneas. Locrin was the eldest
son of Brutus and his wife Innogen, and defeated Humber, king of Hungary, in a great battle;
after which Humber was drowned in the river which still bears his name. Locrin's daughter Averne
(or Sabre in Geoffrey) was drowned likewise, in the river which was consequently called Severn.
The British king Bathulf (or, in Geoffrey, Bladud) was the builder of Bath; and the son of
Bladud was Leir, who had three daughters, named Gornorille, Began, and Cordeille. Kymbel (in
Geoffrey, Kymbelinus), who had been brought up by Augustus Cæsar, was king of Britain at the
time of the birth of Christ; his sons were Guider and Arvirag (Guiderius and Arviragus). Another
king of Britain was King Cole, who gave name (says Geoffrey falsely) to Colchester. We come
into touch with authentic history with the reign of Vortigern, when Hengist and Horsa sailed
over to Britain. An extract from Robert of Gloucester is given in Specimens of Early English,
Part II.

The other great work of the same date is the vast collection edited for the Early English Text
Society by Dr Horstmann in 1887, entitled, The Early South-English Legendary, or Lives of Saints.
It is extant in several MSS., of which the oldest (MS. Laud 108) originally contained 67 Lives;
with an Appendix, in a later hand, containing two more. The eleventh Life is that of St Dunstan,
which is printed in Specimens of Early English, Part II, from another MS.

Soon after the year 1300 the use of the Southern dialect becomes much less frequent, with the
exception of such pieces as belong particularly to the county of Kent and will be considered
by themselves. There are two immense manuscript collections of various poems, originally in
various dialects, which are worth notice. One of these is the Harleian MS. No. 2253, in the
British Museum, the scribe of which has reduced everything into the South-Western dialect,
though it is plain that, in many cases, it is not the dialect in which the pieces were originally
composed; this famous manuscript belongs to the beginning of the fourteenth century. Many poems
were printed from it, with the title of Altenglische Dichtungen, by Dr K. Böddeker, in 1878.
Another similar collection is contained in the Vernon MS. at Oxford, and belongs to the very
end of the same century; the poems in it are all in a Southern dialect, which is that of the
scribe. It contains, e.g., a copy of the earliest version of Piers the Plowman, which would
have been far more valuable if the scribe had retained the spelling of his copy. This may help
us to realise one of the great difficulties which beset the study of dialects, namely, that
we usually find copies of old poems reduced to the scribe's own dialect; and it may easily
happen that such a copy varies considerably from the correct form.

