Knight's, in Sweeting's Alley; Fairburn's, in a court off Ludgate Hill; Hone's, in Fleet Street--bright,
enchanted palaces, which George Cruikshank used to people with grinning, fantastical imps,
and merry, harmless sprites,--where are they? Fairburn's shop knows him no more; not only has
Knight disappeared from Sweeting's Alley, but, as we are given to understand, Sweetings Alley
has disappeared from the face of the globe. Slop, the atrocious Castlereagh, the sainted Caroline
(in a tight pelisse, with feathers in her head), the "Dandy of sixty," who used to glance at
us from Hone's friendly windows--where are they? Mr. Cruikshank may have drawn a thousand better
things since the days when these were; but they are to us a thousand times more pleasing than
anything else he has done. How we used to believe in them! to stray miles out of the way on
holidays, in order to ponder for an hour before that delightful window in Sweeting's Alley!
in walks through Fleet Street, to vanish abruptly down Fairburn's passage, and there make one
at his "charming gratis" exhibition. There used to be a crowd round the window in those days,
of grinning, good-natured mechanics, who spelt the songs, and spoke them out for the benefit
of the company, and who received the points of humor with a general sympathizing roar. Where
are these people now?

There must be no smiling with Cruikshank. A man who does not laugh outright is a dullard, and
has no heart; even the old dandy of sixty must have laughed at his own wondrous grotesque image,
as they say Louis Philippe did, who saw all the caricatures that were made of himself. And
there are some of Cruikshank's designs which have the blessed faculty of creating laughter
as often as you see them. As Diggory says in the play, who is bidden by his master not to laugh
while waiting at table--"Don't tell the story of Grouse in the Gun-room, master, or I can't
help laughing." Repeat that history ever so often, and at the proper moment, honest Diggory
is sure to explode. Every man, no doubt, who loves Cruikshank has his "Grouse in the Gun-room."
There is a fellow in the "Points of Humor" who is offering to eat up a certain little general,
that has made us happy any time these sixteen years: his huge mouth is a perpetual well of
laughter--buckets full of fun can be drawn from it. We have formed no such friendships as that
boyish one of the man with the mouth. But though, in our eyes, Mr. Cruikshank reached his apogee
some eighteen years since, it must not be imagined that such is really the case. Eighteen sets
of children have since then learned to love and admire him, and may many more of their successors
be brought up in the same delightful faith. It is not the artist who fails, but the men who
grow cold--the men, from whom the illusions (why illusions? realities) of youth disappear one
by one; who have no leisure to be happy, no blessed holidays, but only fresh cares at Midsummer
and Christmas, being the inevitable seasons which bring us bills instead of pleasures.

     * This was written in 1840.

We know not if Mr. Cruikshank will be very well pleased at finding his name in such company
as that of Clown and Harlequin; but he, like them, is certainly the children's friend. His
drawings abound in feeling for these little ones, and hideous as in the course of his duty
he is from time to time compelled to design them, he never sketches one without a certain pity
for it, and imparting to the figure a certain grotesque grace. In happy schoolboys he revels;
plum-pudding and holidays his needle has engraved over and over again; there is a design in
one of the comic almanacs of some young gentlemen who are employed in administering to a schoolfellow
the correction of the pump, which is as graceful and elegant as a drawing of Stothard. Dull
books about children George Cruikshank makes bright with illustrations--there is one published
by the ingenious and opulent Mr. Tegg. It is entitled "Mirth and Morality," the mirth being,
for the most part, on the side of the designer--the morality, unexceptionable certainly, the
author's capital. Here are then, to these moralities, a smiling train of mirths supplied by
George Cruikshank. See yonder little fellows butterfly-hunting across a common! Such a light,
brisk, airy, gentleman-like drawing was never made upon such a theme. Who, cries the author--

         "Who has not chased the butterfly,
            And crushed its slender legs and wings,
          And heaved a moralizing sigh:
            Alas! how frail are human things!"

A very unexceptionable morality truly; but it would have puzzled another than George Cruikshank
to make mirth out of it as he has done. Away, surely not on the wings of these verses, Cruikshank's
imagination begins to soar; and he makes us three darling little men on a green common, backed
by old farmhouses, somewhere about May. A great mixture of blue and clouds in the air, a strong
fresh breeze stirring, Tom's jacket flapping in the same, in order to bring down the insect
queen or king of spring that is fluttering above him,--he renders all this with a few strokes
on a little block of wood not two inches square, upon which one may gaze for hours, so merry
and lifelike a scene does it present. What a charming creative power is this, what a privilege--to
be a god, and create little worlds upon paper, and whole generations of smiling, jovial men,
women, and children half inch high, whose portraits are carried abroad, and have the faculty
of making us monsters of six feet curious and happy in our turn. Now, who would imagine that
an artist could make anything of such a subject as this? The writer begins by stating,--

         "I love to go back to the days of my youth,
            And to reckon my joys to the letter,
          And to count o'er the friends that I have in the world,
            Ay, and those who are gone to a better."

This brings him to the consideration of his uncle. "Of all the men I have ever known," says
he, "my uncle united the greatest degree of cheerfulness with the sobriety of manhood. Though
a man when I was a boy, he was yet one of the most agreeable companions I ever possessed. .
. . He embarked for America, and nearly twenty years passed by before he came back again; .
. . but oh, how altered!--he was in every sense of the word an old man, his body and mind were
enfeebled, and second childishness had come upon him. How often have I bent over him, vainly
endeavoring to recall to his memory the scenes we had shared together: and how frequently,
with an aching heart, have I gazed on his vacant and lustreless eye, while he has amused himself
in clapping his hands and singing with a quavering voice a verse of a psalm." Alas! such are
the consequences of long residences in America, and of old age even in uncles! Well, the point
of this morality is, that the uncle one day in the morning of life vowed that he would catch
his two nephews and tie them together, ay, and actually did so, for all the efforts the rogues
made to run away from him; but he was so fatigued that he declared he never would make the
attempt again, whereupon the nephew remarks,--"Often since then, when engaged in enterprises
beyond my strength, have I called to mind the determination of my uncle."

Does it not seem impossible to make a picture out of this? And yet George Cruikshank has produced
a charming design, in which the uncles and nephews are so prettily portrayed that one is reconciled
to their existence, with all their moralities. Many more of the mirths in this little book
are excellent, especially a great figure of a parson entering church on horseback,--an enormous
parson truly, calm, unconscious, unwieldy. As Zeuxis had a bevy of virgins in order to make
his famous picture--his express virgin--a clerical host must have passed under Cruikshank's
eyes before he sketched this little, enormous parson of parsons.

Being on the subject of children's books, how shall we enough praise the delightful German
nursery-tales, and Cruikshank's illustrations of them? We coupled his name with pantomime awhile
since, and sure never pantomimes were more charming than these. Of all the artists that ever
drew, from Michael Angelo upwards and downwards, Cruikshank was the man to illustrate these
tales, and give them just the proper admixture of the grotesque, the wonderful, and the graceful.
May all Mother Bunch's collection be similarly indebted to him; may "Jack the Giant Killer,"
may "Tom Thumb," may "Puss in Boots," be one day revivified by his pencil. Is not Whittington
sitting yet on Highgate hill, and poor Cinderella (in that sweetest of all fairy stories) still
pining in her lonely chimney-nook? A man who has a true affection for these delightful companions
of his youth is bound to be grateful to them if he can, and we pray Mr. Cruikshank to remember
them.

It is folly to say that this or that kind of humor is too good for the public, that only a
chosen few can relish it. The best humor that we know of has been as eagerly received by the
public as by the most delicate connoisseur. There is hardly a man in England who can read but
will laugh at Falstaff and the humor of Joseph Andrews; and honest Mr. Pickwick's story can
be felt and loved by any person above the age of six. Some may have a keener enjoyment of it
than others, but all the world can be merry over it, and is always ready to welcome it. The
best criterion of good humor is success, and what a share of this has Mr. Cruikshank had! how
many millions of mortals has he made happy! We have heard very profound persons talk philosophically
of the marvellous and mysterious manner in which he has suited himself to the time--fait vibrer
la fibre populaire (as Napoleon boasted of himself), supplied a peculiar want felt at a peculiar
period, the simple secret of which is, as we take it, that he, living amongst the public, has
with them a general wide-hearted sympathy, that he laughs at what they laugh at, that he has
a kindly spirit of enjoyment, with not a morsel of mysticism in his composition; that he pities
and loves the poor, and jokes at the follies of the great, and that he addresses all in a perfectly
sincere and manly way. To be greatly successful as a professional humorist, as in any other
calling, a man must be quite honest, and show that his heart is in his work. A bad preacher
will get admiration and a hearing with this point in his favor, where a man of three times
his acquirements will only find indifference and coldness. Is any man more remarkable than
our artist for telling the truth after his own manner? Hogarth's honesty of purpose was as
conspicuous in an earlier time, and we fancy that Gilray would have been far more successful
and more powerful but for that unhappy bribe, which turned the whole course of his humor into
an unnatural channel. Cruikshank would not for any bribe say what he did not think, or lend
his aid to sneer down anything meritorious, or to praise any thing or person that deserved
censure. When he levelled his wit against the Regent, and did his very prettiest for the Princess,
he most certainly believed, along with the great body of the people whom he represents, that
the Princess was the most spotless, pure-mannered darling of a Princess that ever married a
heartless debauchee of a Prince Royal. Did not millions believe with him, and noble and learned
lords take their oaths to her Royal Highness's innocence? Cruikshank would not stand by and
see a woman ill-used, and so struck in for her rescue, he and the people belaboring with all
their might the party who were making the attack, and determining, from pure sympathy and indignation,
that the woman must be innocent because her husband treated her so foully.

To be sure we have never heard so much from Mr. Cruikshank's own lips, but any man who will
examine these odd drawings, which first made him famous, will see what an honest hearty hatred
the champion of woman has for all who abuse her, and will admire the energy with which he flings
his wood-blocks at all who side against her. Canning, Castlereagh, Bexley, Sidmouth, he is
at them, one and all; and as for the Prince, up to what a whipping-post of ridicule did he
tie that unfortunate old man! And do not let squeamish Tories cry out about disloyalty; if
the crown does wrong, the crown must be corrected by the nation, out of respect, of course,
for the crown. In those days, and by those people who so bitterly attacked the son, no word
was ever breathed against the father, simply because he was a good husband, and a sober, thrifty,
pious, orderly man.

This attack upon the Prince Regent we believe to have been Mr. Cruikshank's only effort as
a party politician. Some early manifestoes against Napoleon we find, it is true, done in the
regular John Bull style, with the Gilray model for the little upstart Corsican: but as soon
as the Emperor had yielded to stern fortune our artist's heart relented (as Beranger's did
on the other side of the water), and many of our readers will doubtless recollect a fine drawing
of "Louis XVIII. trying on Napoleon's boots," which did not certainly fit the gouty son of
Saint Louis. Such satirical hits as these, however, must not be considered as political, or
as anything more than the expression of the artist's national British idea of Frenchmen.

It must be confessed that for that great nation Mr. Cruikshank entertains a considerable contempt.
Let the reader examine the "Life in Paris," or the five hundred designs in which Frenchmen
are introduced, and he will find them almost invariably thin, with ludicrous spindle-shanks,
pigtails, outstretched hands, shrugging shoulders, and queer hair and mustachios. He has the
British idea of a Frenchman; and if he does not believe that the inhabitants of France are
for the most part dancing-masters and barbers, yet takes care to depict such in preference,
and would not speak too well of them. It is curious how these traditions endure. In France,
at the present moment, the Englishman on the stage is the caricatured Englishman at the time
of the war, with a shock red head, a long white coat, and invariable gaiters. Those who wish
to study this subject should peruse Monsieur Paul de Kock's histories of "Lord Boulingrog"
and "Lady Crockmilove." On the other hand, the old emigre has taken his station amongst us,
and we doubt if a good British gallery would understand that such and such a character WAS
a Frenchman unless he appeared in the ancient traditional costume.

A curious book, called "Life in Paris," published in 1822, contains a number of the artist's
plates in the aquatint style; and though we believe he had never been in that capital, the
designs have a great deal of life in them, and pass muster very well. A villanous race of shoulder-shrugging
mortals are his Frenchmen indeed. And the heroes of the tale, a certain Mr. Dick Wildfire,
Squire Jenkins, and Captain O'Shuffleton, are made to show the true British superiority on
every occasion when Britons and French are brought together. This book was one among the many
that the designer's genius has caused to be popular; the plates are not carefully executed,
but, being colored, have a pleasant, lively look. The same style was adopted in the once famous
book called "Tom and Jerry, or Life in London," which must have a word of notice here, for,
although by no means Mr. Cruikshank's best work, his reputation was extraordinarily raised
by it. Tom and Jerry were as popular twenty years since as Mr. Pickwick and Sam Weller now
are; and often have we wished, while reading the biographies of the latter celebrated personages,
that they had been described as well by Mr. Cruikshank's pencil as by Mr. Dickens's pen.

As for Tom and Jerry, to show the mutability of human affairs and the evanescent nature of
reputation, we have been to the British Museum and no less than five circulating libraries
in quest of the book, and "Life in London," alas, is not to be found at any one of them. We
can only, therefore, speak of the work from recollection, but have still a very clear remembrance
of the leather gaiters of Jerry Hawthorn, the green spectacles of Logic, and the hooked nose
of Corinthian Tom. They were the schoolboy's delight; and in the days when the work appeared
we firmly believed the three heroes above named to be types of the most elegant, fashionable
young fellows the town afforded, and thought their occupations and amusements were those of
all high-bred English gentlemen. Tom knocking down the watchman at Temple Bar; Tom and Jerry
dancing at Almack's; or flirting in the saloon at the theatre; at the night-houses, after the
play; at Tom Cribb's, examining the silver cup then in the possession of that champion; at
the chambers of Bob Logic, who, seated at a cabinet piano, plays a waltz to which Corinthian
Tom and Kate are dancing; ambling gallantly in Rotten Row; or examining the poor fellow at
Newgate who was having his chains knocked off before hanging: all these scenes remain indelibly
engraved upon the mind, and so far we are independent of all the circulating libraries in London.

As to the literary contents of the book, they have passed sheer away. It was, most likely,
not particularly refined; nay, the chances are that it was absolutely vulgar. But it must have
had some merit of its own, that is clear; it must have given striking descriptions of life
in some part or other of London, for all London read it, and went to see it in its dramatic
shape. The artist, it is said, wished to close the career of the three heroes by bringing them
all to ruin, but the writer, or publishers, would not allow any such melancholy subjects to
dash the merriment of the public, and we believe Tom, Jerry, and Logic, were married off at
the end of the tale, as if they had been the most moral personages in the world. There is some
goodness in this pity, which authors and the public are disposed to show towards certain agreeable,
disreputable characters of romance. Who would mar the prospects of honest Roderick Random,
or Charles Surface, or Tom Jones? only a very stern moralist indeed. And in regard of Jerry
Hawthorn and that hero without a surname, Corinthian Tom, Mr. Cruikshank, we make little doubt,
was glad in his heart that he was not allowed to have his own way.

Soon after the "Tom and Jerry" and the "Life in Paris," Mr. Cruikshank produced a much more
elaborate set of prints, in a work which was called "Points of Humor." These "Points" were
selected from various comic works, and did not, we believe, extend beyond a couple of numbers,
containing about a score of copper-plates. The collector of humorous designs cannot fail to
have them in his portfolio, for they contain some of the very best efforts of Mr. Cruikshank's
genius, and though not quite so highly labored as some of his later productions, are none the
worse, in our opinion, for their comparative want of finish. All the effects are perfectly
given, and the expression is as good as it could be in the most delicate engraving upon steel.
The artist's style, too, was then completely formed; and, for our parts, we should say that
we preferred his manner of 1825 to any other which he has adopted since. The first picture,
which is called "The Point of Honor," illustrates the old story of the officer who, on being
accused of cowardice for refusing to fight a duel, came among his brother officers and flung
a lighted grenade down upon the floor, before which his comrades fled ignominiously. This design
is capital, and the outward rush of heroes, walking, trampling, twisting, scuffling at the
door, is in the best style of the grotesque. You see but the back of most of these gentlemen;
into which, nevertheless, the artist has managed to throw an expression of ludicrous agony
that one could scarcely have expected to find in such a part of the human figure. The next
plate is not less good. It represents a couple who, having been found one night tipsy, and
lying in the same gutter, were, by a charitable though misguided gentleman, supposed to be
man and wife, and put comfortably to bed together. The morning came; fancy the surprise of
this interesting pair when they awoke and discovered their situation. Fancy the manner, too,
in which Cruikshank has depicted them, to which words cannot do justice. It is needless to
state that this fortuitous and temporary union was followed by one more lasting and sentimental,
and that these two worthy persons were married, and lived happily ever after.

We should like to go through every one of these prints. There is the jolly miller, who, returning
home at night, calls upon his wife to get him a supper, and falls to upon rashers of bacon
and ale. How he gormandizes, that jolly miller! rasher after rasher, how they pass away frizzling
and, smoking from the gridiron down that immense grinning gulf of a mouth. Poor wife! how she
pines and frets, at that untimely hour of midnight to be obliged to fry, fry, fry perpetually,
and minister to the monster's appetite. And yonder in the clock: what agonized face is that
we see? By heavens, it is the squire of the parish. What business has he there? Let us not
ask. Suffice it to say, that he has, in the hurry of the moment, left up stairs his br----;
his--psha! a part of his dress, in short, with a number of bank-notes in the pockets. Look
in the next page, and you will see the ferocious, bacon-devouring ruffian of a miller is actually
causing this garment to be carried through the village and cried by the town-crier. And we
blush to be obliged to say that the demoralized miller never offered to return the banknotes,
although he was so mighty scrupulous in endeavoring to find an owner for the corduroy portfolio
in which he had found them.

Passing from this painful subject, we come, we regret to state, to a series of prints representing
personages not a whit more moral. Burns's famous "Jolly Beggars" have all had their portraits
drawn by Cruikshank. There is the lovely "hempen widow," quite as interesting and romantic
as the famous Mrs. Sheppard, who has at the lamented demise of her husband adopted the very
same consolation.

     "My curse upon them every one,
     They've hanged my braw John Highlandman;

     .      .     .      .

     And now a widow I must mourn
     Departed joys that ne'er return;
     No comfort but a hearty can
     When I think on John Highlandman."

Sweet "raucle carlin," she has none of the sentimentality of the English highwayman's lady;
but being wooed by a tinker and

     "A pigmy scraper wi' his fiddle
     Wha us'd to trystes and fairs to driddle,"

prefers the practical to the merely musical man. The tinker sings with a noble candor, worthy
of a fellow of his strength of body and station in life--

         "My bonnie lass, I work in brass,
            A tinker is my station;
          I've travell'd round all Christian ground
            In this my occupation.
          I've ta'en the gold, I've been enroll'd
            In many a noble squadron;
          But vain they search'd when off I march'd
            To go an' clout the caudron."

It was his ruling passion. What was military glory to him, forsooth? He had the greatest contempt
for it, and loved freedom and his copper kettle a thousand times better--a kind of hardware
Diogenes. Of fiddling he has no better opinion. The picture represents the "sturdy caird" taking
"poor gut-scraper" by the beard,--drawing his "roosty rapier," and swearing to "speet him like
a pliver" unless he would relinquish the bonnie lassie for ever--

         "Wi' ghastly ee, poor tweedle-dee
            Upon his hunkers bended,
          An' pray'd for grace wi' ruefu' face,
            An' so the quarrel ended."

Hark how the tinker apostrophizes the violinist, stating to the widow at the same time the
advantages which she might expect from an alliance with himself:--

         "Despise that shrimp, that withered imp,
            Wi' a' his noise and caperin';
          And take a share with those that bear
            The budget and the apron!

         "And by that stowp, my faith an' houpe,
            An' by that dear Kilbaigie!
          If e'er ye want, or meet wi' scant,
            May I ne'er weet my craigie."

Cruikshank's caird is a noble creature; his face and figure show him to be fully capable of
doing and saying all that is above written of him.

In the second part, the old tale of "The Three Hunchbacked Fiddlers" is illustrated with equal
felicity. The famous classical dinners and duel in "Peregrine Pickle" are also excellent in
their way; and the connoisseur of prints and etchings may see in the latter plate, and in another
in this volume, how great the artist's mechanical skill is as an etcher. The distant view of
the city in the duel, and of a market-place in "The Quack Doctor," are delightful specimens
of the artist's skill in depicting buildings and backgrounds. They are touched with a grace,
truth, and dexterity of workmanship that leave nothing to desire. We have before mentioned
the man with the mouth, which appears in this number emblematical of gout and indigestion,
in which the artist has shown all the fancy of Callot. Little demons, with long saws for noses,
are making dreadful incisions into the toes of the unhappy sufferer; some are bringing pans
of hot coals to keep the wounded member warm; a huge, solemn nightmare sits on the invalid's
chest, staring solemnly into his eyes; a monster, with a pair of drumsticks, is banging a devil's
tattoo on his forehead; and a pair of imps are nailing great tenpenny nails into his hands
to make his happiness complete.

The late Mr. Clark's excellent work, "Three Courses and a Dessert," was published at a time
when the rage for comic stories was not so great as it since has been, and Messrs. Clark and
Cruikshank only sold their hundreds where Messrs. Dickens and Phiz dispose of their thousands.
But if our recommendation can in any way influence the reader, we would enjoin him to have
a copy of the "Three Courses," that contains some of the best designs of our artist, and some
of the most amusing tales in our language. The invention of the pictures, for which Mr. Clark
takes credit to himself, says a great deal for his wit and fancy. Can we, for instance, praise
too highly the man who invented that wonderful oyster?

Examine him well; his beard, his pearl, his little round stomach, and his sweet smile. Only
oysters know how to smile in this way; cool, gentle, waggish, and yet inexpressibly innocent
and winning. Dando himself must have allowed such an artless native to go free, and consigned
him to the glassy, cool, translucent wave again.

In writing upon such subjects as these with which we have been furnished, it can hardly be
expected that we should follow any fixed plan and order--we must therefore take such advantage
as we may, and seize upon our subject when and wherever we can lay hold of him.

For Jews, sailors, Irishmen, Hessian boots, little boys, beadles, policemen, tall life-guardsmen,
charity children, pumps, dustmen, very short pantaloons, dandies in spectacles, and ladies
with aquiline noses, remarkably taper waists, and wonderfully long ringlets, Mr. Cruikshank
has a special predilection. The tribe of Israelites he has studied with amazing gusto; witness
the Jew in Mr. Ainsworth's "Jack Sheppard," and the immortal Fagin of "Oliver Twist." Whereabouts
lies the comic vis in these persons and things? Why should a beadle be comic, and his opposite
a charity boy? Why should a tall life-guardsman have something in him essentially absurd? Why
are short breeches more ridiculous than long? What is there particularly jocose about a pump,
and wherefore does a long nose always provoke the beholder to laughter? These points may be
metaphysically elucidated by those who list. It is probable that Mr. Cruikshank could not give
an accurate definition of that which is ridiculous in these objects, but his instinct has told
him that fun lurks in them, and cold must be the heart that can pass by the pantaloons of his
charity boys, the Hessian boots of his dandies, and the fan-tail hats of his dustmen, without
respectful wonder.

He has made a complete little gallery of dustmen. There is, in the first place, the professional
dustman, who, having in the enthusiastic exercise of his delightful trade, laid hands upon
property not strictly his own, is pursued, we presume, by the right owner, from whom he flies
as fast as his crooked shanks will carry him.

What a curious picture it is--the horrid rickety houses in some dingy suburb of London, the
grinning cobbler, the smothered butcher, the very trees which are covered with dust--it is
fine to look at the different expressions of the two interesting fugitives. The fiery charioteer
who belabors the poor donkey has still a glance for his brother on foot, on whom punishment
is about to descend. And not a little curious is it to think of the creative power of the man
who has arranged this little tale of low life. How logically it is conducted, how cleverly
each one of the accessories is made to contribute to the effect of the whole. What a deal of
thought and humor has the artist expended on this little block of wood; a large picture might
have been painted out of the very same materials, which Mr. Cruikshank, out of his wondrous
fund of merriment and observation, can afford to throw away upon a drawing not two inches long.
From the practical dustmen we pass to those purely poetical. There are three of them who rise
on clouds of their own raising, the very genii of the sack and shovel.

Is there no one to write a sonnet to these?--and yet a whole poem was written about Peter Bell
the wagoner, a character by no means so poetic.

And lastly, we have the dustman in love: the honest fellow having seen a young beauty stepping
out of a gin-shop on a Sunday morning, is pressing eagerly his suit.

Gin has furnished many subjects to Mr. Cruikshank, who labors in his own sound and hearty way
to teach his countrymen the dangers of that drink. In the "Sketch-Book" is a plate upon the
subject, remarkable for fancy and beauty of design; it is called the "Gin Juggernaut," and
represents a hideous moving palace, with a reeking still at the roof and vast gin-barrels for
wheels, under which unhappy millions are crushed to death. An immense black cloud of desolation
covers over the country through which the gin monster has passed, dimly looming through the
darkness whereof you see an agreeable prospect of gibbets with men dangling, burnt houses,
&c. The vast cloud comes sweeping on in the wake of this horrible body-crusher; and you see,
by way of contrast, a distant, smiling, sunshiny tract of old English country, where gin as
yet is not known. The allegory is as good, as earnest, and as fanciful as one of John Bunyan's,
and we have often fancied there was a similarity between the men.

The render will examine the work called "My Sketch-Book" with not a little amusement, and may
gather from it, as we fancy, a good deal of information regarding the character of the individual
man, George Cruikshank: what points strike his eye as a painter; what move his anger or admiration
as a moralist; what classes he seems most especially disposed to observe, and what to ridicule.
There are quacks of all kinds, to whom he has a mortal hatred; quack dandies, who assume under
his pencil, perhaps in his eye, the most grotesque appearance possible--their hats grow larger,
their legs infinitely more crooked and lean; the tassels of their canes swell out to a most
preposterous size; the tails of their coats dwindle away, and finish where coat-tails generally
begin. Let us lay a wager that Cruikshank, a man of the people if ever there was one, heartily
hates and despises these supercilious, swaggering young gentlemen; and his contempt is not
a whit the less laudable because there may be tant soit peu of prejudice in it. It is right
and wholesome to scorn dandies, as Nelson said it was to hate Frenchmen; in which sentiment
(as we have before said) George Cruikshank undoubtedly shares. In the "Sunday in London,"*
Monsieur the Chef is instructing a kitchen-maid how to compound some rascally French kickshaw
or the other--a pretty scoundrel truly! with what an air he wears that nightcap of his, and
shrugs his lank shoulders, and chatters, and ogles, and grins: they are all the same, these
mounseers; there are other two fellows--morbleu! one is putting his dirty fingers into the
saucepan; there are frogs cooking in it, no doubt; and just over some other dish of abomination,
another dirty rascal is taking snuff! Never mind, the sauce won't be hurt by a few ingredients
more or less. Three such fellows as these are not worth one Englishman, that's clear. There
is one in the very midst of them, the great burly fellow with the beef: he could beat all three
in five minutes. We cannot be certain that such was the process going on in Mr. Cruikshank's
mind when he made the design; but some feelings of the sort were no doubt entertained by him.

     * The following lines--ever fresh--by the author of
     "Headlong Hall," published years ago in the Globe and
     Traveller, are an excellent comment on several of the cuts
     from the "Sunday in London:"--

                        I.

         "The poor man's sins are glaring;
          In the face of ghostly warning
            He is caught in the fact
            Of an overt act,
          Buying greens on Sunday morning.

                       II.

         "The rich man's sins are hidden
          In the pomp of wealth and station,
            And escape the sight
            Of the children of light,
          Who are wise in their generation.

                      III.

         "The rich man has a kitchen,
          And cooks to dress his dinner;
            The poor who would roast,
            To the baker's must post,
          And thus becomes a sinner.

                       IV.

         "The rich man's painted windows
          Hide the concerts of the quality;
            The poor can but share
            A crack'd fiddle in the air,
          Which offends all sound morality.

                        V.

         "The rich man has a cellar,
          And a ready butler by him;
            The poor must steer
            For his pint of beer
          Where the saint can't choose but spy him.

                       VI.

         "This rich man is invisible
          In the crowd of his gay society;
            But the poor man's delight
            Is a sore in the sight
          And a stench in the nose of piety."

Against dandy footmen he is particularly severe. He hates idlers, pretenders, boasters, and
punishes these fellows as best he may. Who does not recollect the famous picture, "What IS
taxes, Thomas?" What is taxes indeed; well may that vast, over-fed, lounging flunky ask the
question of his associate Thomas: and yet not well, for all that Thomas says in reply is, "I
DON'T KNOW." "O beati PLUSHICOLAE," what a charming state of ignorance is yours! In the "Sketch-Book"
many footmen make their appearance: one is a huge fat Hercules of a Portman Square porter,
who calmly surveys another poor fellow, a porter likewise, but out of livery, who comes staggering
forward with a box that Hercules might lift with his little finger. Will Hercules do so? not
he. The giant can carry nothing heavier than a cocked-hat note on a silver tray, and his labors
are to walk from his sentry-box to the door, and from the door back to his sentry-box, and
to read the Sunday paper, and to poke the hall fire twice or thrice, and to make five meals
a day. Such a fellow does Cruikshank hate and scorn worse even than a Frenchman.

The man's master, too, comes in for no small share of our artist's wrath. There is a company
of them at church, who humbly designate themselves "miserable sinners!" Miserable sinners indeed!
Oh, what floods of turtle-soup, what tons of turbot and lobster-sauce must have been sacrificed
to make those sinners properly miserable. My lady with the ermine tippet and draggling feather,
can we not see that she lives in Portland Place, and is the wife of an East India Director?
She has been to the Opera over-night (indeed her husband, on her right, with his fat hand dangling
over the pew-door, is at this minute thinking of Mademoiselle Leocadie, whom he saw behind
the scenes)--she has been at the Opera over-night, which with a trifle of supper afterwards--a
white-and-brown soup, a lobster-salad, some woodcocks, and a little champagne--sent her to
bed quite comfortable. At half-past eight her maid brings her chocolate in bed, at ten she
has fresh eggs and muffins, with, perhaps, a half-hundred of prawns for breakfast, and so can
get over the day and the sermon till lunch-time pretty well. What an odor of musk and bergamot
exhales from the pew!--how it is wadded, and stuffed, and spangled over with brass nails! what
hassocks are there for those who are not too fat to kneel! what a flustering and flapping of
gilt prayer-books; and what a pious whirring of bible leaves one hears all over the church,
as the doctor blandly gives out the text! To be miserable at this rate you must, at the very
least, have four thousand a year: and many persons are there so enamored of grief and sin,
that they would willingly take the risk of the misery to have a life-interest in the consols
that accompany it, quite careless about consequences, and sceptical as to the notion that a
day is at hand when you must fulfil YOUR SHARE OF THE BARGAIN.

