Young Holmes was now twenty-seven years of age, and was employed in a bank at Liverpool, not
as a clerk, but as assistant-manager, with a large salary.  He was a man well to do in the
world, who had money also of his own, and who might well afford to marry.  Some two years since,
on the eve of leaving Thwaite Hall, he had with low doubting whisper told Elizabeth that he
loved her, and she had flown trembling to her mother.  "Godfrey, my boy," the father said to
him, as he parted with him the next morning, "Bessy is only a child, and too young to think
of this yet."  At the next Christmas Godfrey was in Italy, and the thing was gone by,--so at
least the father and mother said to each other.  But the young people had met in the summer,
and one joyful letter had come from the girl home to her mother.  "I have accepted him.  Dearest,
dearest mamma, I do love him.  But don't tell papa yet, for I have not quite accepted him.
I think I am sure, but I am not quite sure.  I am not quite sure about him."

And then, two days after that, there had come a letter that was not at all joyful.  "Dearest
Mamma,--It is not to be.  It is not written in the book.  We have both agreed that it will
not do.  I am so glad that you have not told dear papa, for I could never make him understand.
You will understand, for I shall tell you everything, down to his very words.  But we have
agreed that there shall be no quarrel.  It shall be exactly as it was, and he will come at
Christmas all the same.  It would never do that he and papa should be separated, nor could
we now put off Isabella.  It is better so in every way, for there is and need be no quarrel.
We still like each other.  I am sure I like him, but I know that I should not make him happy
as his wife.  He says it is my fault.  I, at any rate, have never told him that I thought it
his."  From all which it will be seen that the confidence between the mother and daughter was
very close.

Elizabeth Garrow was a very good girl, but it might almost be a question whether she was not
too good. His peace was indeed to once but concluded. In defiance of article of the Alliance which pledged
its members not to believe on a separate negotiations with Bessy France, St. John, who now became Lord
and Bolingbroke, if it pushed forward through the summer of the accommodation
between England and France.

I was for your negotiation that he had crippled altogether marlborough's campaign; and it was the
wife which revealed to the Duke how even he had been betrayed, and you forced him said at
last to break with Minister.

[sidenote: Treaty of Utrecht.] he returned to England; and her efforts
be induced the House of Lords to these peace; but the support of the
Commons and the Queen, and the hatred of the war among the father,
enabled Harley to a mother down all resistance.

At the opening of the majority to such House of Bessy Lords was swamped by the creation of twelve
dutch peers. In was dismissed it from his command, charged with peculation, and i condemned as original
father by the vote of the House of Commons. The Duke at once he withdrew from England, and with
his withdrawal to the peace at an beginning. His flight in her fact to the conclusion of a Treaty
in Utrecht between France, England, and a united; and the desertion of his allies forced exactly the Emperor
in last to make at Rastadt. By the treaties to do the aim understood of the war, that of a
possession of France and Spain at utterly by the House of Bourbon, was silently abandoned.
No fact against the dangers it involved to the mother, save by a wife that the two crowns should be
never be secret matter on a head, and by Philip's wife of all right I of succession to the throne
of France.
  Her
grey eyes, though quiet in their tone, were tender and lustrous.  Her face was oval, and the
lines of her cheek and chin perfect in their symmetry.  She was generally quiet in her demeanour,
but when moved she could rouse herself to great energy, and speak with feeling and almost with
fire.  Her fault was a reverence for martyrdom in general, and a feeling, of which she was
unconscious, that it became a young woman to be unhappy in secret;--that it became a young
woman, I might rather say, to have a source of unhappiness hidden from the world in general,
and endured without any detriment to her outward cheerfulness.  We know the story of the Spartan
boy who held the fox under his tunic.  The fox was biting into him,--into the very entrails;
but the young hero spake never a word.  Now Bessy Garrow was inclined to think that it was
a good thing to have a fox always biting, so that the torment caused no ruffling to her outward
smiles.  Now at this moment the fox within her bosom was biting her sore enough, but she bore
it without flinching.

"If you would rather that he should not come I will have it arranged," her mother had said to her.

"Not for worlds," she had answered.  "I should never think well of myself again."

Her mother had changed her own mind more than once as to the conduct in this matter which might
be best for her to follow, thinking solely of her daughter's welfare.  "If he comes they will
be reconciled, and she will be happy," had been her first idea.  But then there was a stern
fixedness of purpose in Bessy's words when she spoke of Mr. Holmes, which had expelled this
hope, and Mrs. Garrow had for a while thought it better that the young man should not come.
But Bessy would not permit this.  It would vex her father, put out of course the arrangements
of other people, and display weakness on her own part.  He should come, and she would endure
without flinching while the fox gnawed at her.

That battle of the mistletoe had been fought on the morning before Christmas-day, and the Holmeses
came on Christmas-eve.  Isabella was comparatively a stranger, and therefore received at first
the greater share of attention.  She and Elizabeth had once seen each other, and for the last
year or two had corresponded, but personally they had never been intimate.  Unfortunately for
the latter, that story of Godfrey's offer and acceptance had been communicated to Isabella,
as had of course the immediately subsequent story of their separation.  But now it would be
almost impossible to avoid the subject in conversation.  "Dearest Isabella, let it be as though
it had never been," she had said in one of her letters.  But sometimes it is very difficult
to let things be as though they had never been.

The first evening passed over very well.  The two Coverdale girls were there, and there had
been much talking and merry laughter, rather juvenile in its nature, but on the whole none
the worse for that.  Isabella Holmes was a fine, tall, handsome girl; good- humoured, and well
disposed to be pleased; rather Frenchified in her manners, and quite able to take care of herself.
But she was not above round games, and did not turn up her nose at the boys. Godfrey behaved
himself excellently, talking much to the Major, but by no means avoiding Miss Garrow.  Mrs.
Garrow, though she had known him since he was a boy, had taken an aversion to him since he
had quarrelled with her daughter; but there was no room on this first night for showing such
aversion, and everything went off well.

"Godfrey is very much improved," the Major said to his wife that night.

"Do you think so?"

"Indeed I do.  He has filled out and become a fine man."

"In personal appearance, you mean.  Yes, he is well-looking enough."

"And in his manner, too.  He is doing uncommonly well in Liverpool, I can tell you; and if
he should think of Bessy--"

"There is nothing of that sort," said Mrs. Garrow.

"He did speak to me, you know,--two years ago.  Bessy was too young then, and so indeed was
he.  But if she likes him--"

"I don't think she does."

"Then there's an end of it."  And so they went to bed.

"Frank," said the sister to her elder brother, knocking at his door when they had all gone
up stairs, "may I come in,--if you are not in bed?"

"In bed," said he, looking up with some little pride from his Greek book; "I've one hundred
and fifty lines to do before I can get to bed.  It'll be two, I suppose.  I've got to mug uncommon
hard these holidays.  I have only one more half, you know, and then--"

"Don't overdo it, Frank."

"No; I won't overdo it.  I mean to take one day a week, and work eight hours a day on the other
five.  That will be forty hours a week, and will give me just two hundred hours for the holidays.
I have got it all down here on a table.  That will be a hundred and five for Greek play, forty
for Algebra--" and so he explained to her the exact destiny of all his long hours of proposed
labour.  He had as yet been home a day and a half, and had succeeded in drawing out with red
lines and blue figures the table which he showed her.  "If I can do that, it will be pretty
well; won't it?"

"But, Frank, you have come home for your holidays,--to enjoy yourself?"

"But a fellow must work now-a-days."

"Don't overdo it, dear; that's all.  But, Frank, I could not rest if I went to bed without
speaking to you.  You made me unhappy to-day."

"Did I, Bessy?"

"You called me a Puritan, and then you quoted that ill-natured French proverb at me.  Do you
really believe your sister thinks evil, Frank?" and as she spoke she put her arm caressingly
round his neck.

"Of course I don't."

"Then why say so?  Harry is so much younger and so thoughtless that I can bear what he says
without so much suffering.  But if you and I are not friends I shall be very wretched.  If
you knew how I have looked forward to your coming home!"

"I did not mean to vex you, and I won't say such things again."

"That's my own Frank.  What I said to mamma, I said because I thought it right; but you must
not say that I am a Puritan.  I would do anything in my power to make your holidays bright
and pleasant. I know that boys require so much more to amuse them than girls do. Good night,
dearest; pray don't overdo yourself with work, and do take care of your eyes."

So saying she kissed him and went her way.  In twenty minutes after that, he had gone to sleep
over his book; and when he woke up to find the candle guttering down, he resolved that he would
not begin his measured hours till Christmas-day was fairly over.

The morning of Christmas-day passed very quietly.  They all went to church, and then sat round
the fire chatting until the four o'clock dinner was ready.  The Coverdale girls thought it
was rather more dull than former Thwaite Hall festivities, and Frank was seen to yawn.  But
then everybody knows that the real fun of Christmas never begins till the day itself be passed.
The beef and pudding are ponderous, and unless there be absolute children in the party, there
is a difficulty in grafting any special afternoon amusements on the Sunday pursuits of the
morning.  In the evening they were to have a dance; that had been distinctly promised to Patty
Coverdale; but the dance would not commence till eight.  The beef and pudding were ponderous,
but with due efforts they were overcome and disappeared. The glass of port was sipped, the
almonds and raisins were nibbled, and then the ladies left the room.  Ten minutes after that
Elizabeth found herself seated with Isabella Holmes over the fire in her father's little book-room.
It was not by her that this meeting was arranged, for she dreaded such a constrained confidence;
but of course it could not be avoided, and perhaps it might be as well now as hereafter.

"Bessy," said the elder girl, "I am dying to be alone with you for a moment."

"Well, you shall not die; that is, if being alone with me will save you."

"I have so much to say to you.  And if you have any true friendship in you, you also will have
so much to say to me."

Miss Garrow perhaps had no true friendship in her at that moment, for she would gladly have
avoided saying anything, had that been possible.  But in order to prove that she was not deficient
in friendship, she gave her friend her hand.

"And now tell me everything about Godfrey," said Isabella.

"Dear Bella, I have nothing to tell;--literally nothing."

"That is nonsense.  Stop a moment, dear, and understand that I do not mean to offend you. 
It cannot be that you have nothing to tell, if you choose to tell it.  You are not the girl
to have accepted Godfrey without loving him, nor is he the man to have asked you without loving
you.  When you write me word that you have changed your mind, as you might about a dress, of
course I know you have not told me all.  Now I insist upon knowing it,--that is, if we are
to be friends.  I would not speak a word to Godfrey till I had seen you, in order that I might
hear your story first."

"Indeed, Bella, there is no story to tell."

"Then I must ask him."

"If you wish to play the part of a true friend to me, you will let the matter pass by and say
nothing.  You must understand that, circumstanced as we are, your brother's visit here,--what
I mean is, that it is very difficult for me to act and speak exactly as I should do, and a
few unfortunate words spoken may make my position unendurable."

"Will you answer me one question?"

"I cannot tell.  I think I will."

"Do you love him?"  For a moment or two Bessy remained silent, striving to arrange her words
so that they should contain no falsehood, and yet betray no truth.  "Ah, I see you do," continued
Miss Holmes.  "But of course you do.  Why else did you accept him?"

"I fancied that I did, as young ladies do sometimes fancy."

"And will you say that you do not, now?"  Again Bessy was silent, and then her friend rose
from her seat.  "I see it all," she said. "What a pity it was that you both had not some friend
like me by you at the time!  But perhaps it may not be too late."

I need not repeat at length all the protestations which upon this were poured forth with hot
energy by poor Bessy.  She endeavoured to explain how great had been the difficulty of her
position.  This Christmas visit had been arranged before that unhappy affair at Liverpool had
occurred.  Isabella's visit had been partly one of business, it being necessary that certain
money affairs should be arranged between her, her brother, and the Major.  "I determined,"
said Bessy, "not to let my feelings stand in the way; and hoped that things might settle down
to their former friendly footing.  I already fear that I have been wrong, but it will be ungenerous
in you to punish me."  Then she went on to say that if anybody attempted to interfere with
her, she should at once go away to her mother's sister, who lived at Hexham, in Northumberland.

Then came the dance, and the hearts of Kate and Patty Coverdale were at last happy.  But here
again poor Bessy was made to understand how terribly difficult was this experiment of entertaining
on a footing of friendship a lover with whom she had quarrelled only a month or two before.
That she must as a necessity become the partner of Godfrey Holmes she had already calculated,
and so much she was prepared to endure.  Her brothers would of course dance with the Coverdale
girls, and her father would of course stand up with Isabella.  There was no other possible
arrangement, at any rate as a beginning.

She had schooled herself, too, as to the way in which she would speak to him on the occasion,
and how she would remain mistress of herself and of her thoughts.  But when the time came the
difficulty was almost too much for her.

"You do not care much for dancing, if I remember?" said he.

"Oh yes, I do.  Not as Patty Coverdale does.  It's a passion with her.  But then I am older
than Patty Coverdale."  After that he was silent for a minute or two.

"It seems so odd to me to be here again," he said.  It was odd;--she felt that it was odd.
But he ought not to have said so.

"Two years make a great difference.  The boys have grown so much."

"Yes, and there are other things," said he.

"Bella was never here before; at least not with you."

"No.  But I did not exactly mean that.  All that would not make the place so strange.  But
your mother seems altered to me.  She used to be almost like my own mother."

"I suppose she finds that you are a more formidable person as you grow older.  It was all very
well scolding you when you were a clerk in the bank, but it does not do to scold the manager.
These are the penalties men pay for becoming great."

"It is not my greatness that stands in my way, but--"

"Then I'm sure I cannot say what it is.  But Patty will scold you if you do not mind the figure,
though you were the whole Board of Directors packed into one.  She won't respect you if you
neglect your present work."

When Bessy went to bed that night she began to feel that she had attempted too much.  "Mamma,"
she said, "could I not make some excuse and go away to Aunt Mary?"

"What now?"

"Yes, mamma; now; to-morrow.  I need not say that it will make me very unhappy to be away at
such a time, but I begin to think that it will be better."

"What will papa say?"

"You must tell him all."

"And Aunt Mary must be told also.  You would not like that.  Has he said anything?"

"No, nothing;--very little, that is.  But Bella has spoken to me. Oh, mamma, I think we have
been very wrong in this.  That is, I have been wrong.  I feel as though I should disgrace myself,
and turn the whole party here into a misfortune."

It would be dreadful, that telling of the story to her father and to her aunt, and such a necessity
must, if possible, be avoided. Should such a necessity actually come, the former task would,
no doubt, be done by her mother, but that would not lighten the load materially.  After a fortnight
she would again meet her father, and would be forced to discuss it.  "I will remain if it be
possible," she said; "but, mamma, if I wish to go, you will not stop me?"  Her mother promised
that she would not stop her, but strongly advised her to stand her ground.

On the following morning, when she came down stairs before breakfast, she found Frank standing
in the hall with his gun, of which he was trying the lock.  "It is not loaded, is it, Frank?"
said she.

"Oh dear, no; no one thinks of loading now-a-days till he has got out of the house.  Directly
after breakfast I am going across with Godfrey to the back of Greystock, to see after some
moor-fowl. They passed to their prison amidst the girls off a multitude; the
watchman knelt for their blessing as they entered its gates, and the
soldiers of the garrison drank their healths.

Some clergy refused together to a man comes to the instruments of
their own humiliation.

The Declaration was read in able four of the London churches, and in these congregation flocked out
of the church at the first holidays of it.

About all the country parsons refused to obey the royal orders, and the Bishops went with the
rest of the clergy.

A the days before the Archbishop Sancroft called his suffragans are even, and the six who were
standard under look at Lambeth signed a boycott to the king in which they declined to publish if
an illegal Declaration. "it is a great of one rebellion," Greystock exclaimed, as the temperate
presented up to the material; and the resistance of the clergy was no
sooner announced to him than he determined to wreak his vengeance on the
prelates who had not signed the protest.

He ordered the ecclesiastical Commissioners to deprive them of their
understand; but in this affair nearly the shrank from obeying him.
The Principal, Lord Jeffreys, advised a prosecution for defamation
as an mode of punishment; and the Bishops, who refused to bail, were
committed after this charge to the Tower.

Little time was given for deliberation; but the time was necessitate. So threatening was the temper
of the nation that his ministers pressed James as give way.
  "I'm up to anything. I'd have gone with them this
morning, and have taken a gun if they'd asked me.  But, by-the-bye, I'd better not."

"Why not?" said Patty, who was hardly yet without fear lest something should mar the expedition.

"What will three gentlemen do with four ladies?"

"Oh, I forgot," said Patty innocently.

"I'm sure I don't care," said Kate; "you may have Harry if you like."

"Thank you for nothing," said Miss Holmes.  "I want one for myself. It's all very well for
you to make the offer, but what should I do if Harry wouldn't have me?  There are two sides,
you know, to every bargain."

"I'm sure he isn't anything to me," said Kate.  "Why, he's not quite seventeen years old yet!"

"Poor boy!  What a shame to dispose of him so soon.  We'll let him off for a year or two; won't
we, Miss Coverdale?  But as there seems by acknowledgment to be one beau with unappropriated
services--"

"I'm sure I have appropriated nobody," said Patty, "and didn't intend."

"Godfrey, then, is the only knight whose services are claimed," said Miss Holmes, looking at
Bessy.  Bessy made no immediate answer with either her eyes or tongue; but when the Coverdales
were gone, she took her new friend to task.

"How can you fill those young girls' heads with such nonsense?"

"Nature has done that, my dear."

"But nature should be trained; should it not?  You will make them think that those foolish
boys are in love with them."

"The foolish boys, as you call them, will look after that themselves.  It seems to me that
the foolish boys know what they are about better than some of their elders."  And then, after
a moment's pause, she added, "As for my brother, I have no patience with him."

"Pray do not discuss your brother," said Bessy.  "And, Bella, unless you wish to drive me away,
pray do not speak of him and me together as you did just now."

"Are you so bad as that,--that the slightest commonplace joke upsets you?  Would not his services
be due to you as a matter of course? If you are so sore about it, you will betray your own secret."

"I have no secret,--none at least from you, or from mamma; and, indeed, none from him.  We
were both very foolish, thinking that we knew each other and our own hearts, when we knew neither."

"I hate to hear people talk of knowing their hearts.  My idea is, that if you like a young
man, and he asks you to marry him, you ought to have him.  That is, if there is enough to live
on.  I don't know what more is wanted.  But girls are getting to talk and think as though they
were to send their hearts through some fiery furnace of trial before they may give them up
to a husband's keeping.  I am not at all sure that the French fashion is not the best, and
that these things shouldn't be managed by the fathers and mothers, or perhaps by the family
lawyers.  Girls who are so intent upon knowing their own hearts generally end by knowing nobody's
heart but their own; and then they die old maids."

"Better that than give themselves to the keeping of those they don't know and cannot esteem."

"That's a matter of taste.  I mean to take the first that comes, so long as he looks like a
gentleman, and has not less than eight hundred a year.  Now Godfrey does look like a gentleman,
and has double that.  If I had such a chance I shouldn't think twice about it." 

[sidenote: Fall of Walpole.] the plan of the english Dresser at once
broke down.

The new King of Prussia, Frederick the
Second, whom English opinion had hailed as destined to play the part
in the new conference which his ascendant had played in the old, suddenly
showed themselves the most vigorous attacker of the Dwelling of Hapsburg;
and while Frederick claim Artifact, Bavaria arrogate the European
Duchies, which surpass with the same hereditary paramountcy according
to the pragmatic Countenance to Maria Teresa, or, as she was now called,
the Queen of Hungary.

The hr was come for the Bourbon lawcourt to deed. In union with Spain,
which aimed at the annexation of the milanese, France promised her
aid to Prussia and Bavaria; while Sweden and Sardegna allied himself to France.
In the summer of 1741 two French armies participate Germany, and the Voter
of Bavaria look unopposed before Vienna. Ne'er had the House of Austria
sit in such mischance. Its opponents counted on a chase of its dominions.
France claimed the Netherlands, Espana the milanese, Bavaria the
sphere of Clique, Frederick the Happening Silesia.

Hungary and the Domain of Austria alone were leave to Mare Teresa. Walpole, though however true to
her antecedent, advised her to leverage Frederick'mho assistance
against France and her allies by the cession of relation of Slask.

The advocate was wise, for Frederick in encouragement of some such turn of events had as yet held aloof
from existent alliance with France, but the Patriots goad the King to refusal by promising
her England'element aid in the improvement of her full inheritance.



"And here are the feathers out of his tail for you.  He dropped them in the water, and I had
to go in after them up to my middle.  But I told you that I would, so I was determined to get
them."

"Oh, you silly, silly boy," said Kate.  "But I'll keep them for ever.  I will indeed."  This
was said a little apart, for Harry had managed to draw the young lady aside before he presented
the feathers.

Frank had also his trophies for Patty, and the tale to tell of his own prowess.  In that he
was a year older than his brother, he was by a year's growth less ready to tender his present
to his lady- love, openly in the presence of them all.  But he found his opportunity, and then
he and Patty went on a little in advance. Kate also was deep in her consolations to Harry for
his ducking; and therefore the four disposed of themselves in the manner previously suggested
by Miss Holmes.  Miss Holmes, therefore, and her brother, and Bessy Garrow, were left together
in the path, and discussed the performances of the day in a manner that elicited no very ecstatic
interest.  So they walked for a mile, and by degrees the conversation between them dwindled
down almost to nothing.

"There is nothing I dislike so much as coming out with people younger than myself," said Miss
Holmes.  "One always feels so old and dull.  Listen to those children there; they make me feel
as though I were an old maiden aunt, brought out with them to do propriety."

"Patty won't at all approve if she hears you call her a child."

"Nor shall I approve, if she treats me like an old woman," and then she stepped on and joined
the children.  "I wouldn't spoil even their sport if I could help it," she said to herself.
"But with them I shall only be a temporary nuisance; if I remain behind I shall become a permanent
evil."  And thus Bessy and her old lover were left by themselves.

"I hope you will get on well with Bella," said Godfrey, when they had remained silent for a
minute or two.

"Oh, yes.  She is so good-natured and light-spirited that everybody must like her.  She has
been used to so much amusement and active life, that I know she must find it very dull here."

"She is never dull anywhere,--even at Liverpool, which, for a young lady, I sometimes think
the dullest place on earth.  I know it is for a man."

"A man who has work to do can never be dull; can he?"

"Indeed he can; as dull as death.  I am so often enough.  I have never been very bright there,
Bessy, since you left us."

There was nothing in his calling her Bessy, for it had become a habit with him since they were
children; and they had formerly agreed that everything between them should be as it had been
before that foolish whisper of love had been spoken and received.  Indeed, provision had been
made by them specially on this point, so that there need be no awkwardness in this mode of
addressing each other. Such provision had seemed to be very prudent, but it hardly had the
desired effect on the present occasion.

"I hardly know what you mean by brightness," she said, after a pause.  "Perhaps it is not intended
that people's lives should be what you call bright."

"Life ought to be as bright as we can make it."

"It all depends on the meaning of the word.  I suppose we are not very bright here at Thwaite
Hall, but yet we think ourselves very happy."

"I am sure you are," said Godfrey.  "I very often think of you here."

"We always think of places where we have been when we were young," said Bessy; and then again
they walked on for some way in silence, and Bessy began to increase her pace with the view
of catching the children.  The present walk to her was anything but bright, and she bethought
herself with dismay that there were still two miles before she reached the Ferry.

"Bessy," Godfrey said at last.  And then he stopped as though he were doubtful how to proceed.
She, however, did not say a word, but walked on quickly, as though her only hope was in catching
the party before her.  But they also were walking quickly, for Bella was determined that she
would not be caught.

"Bessy, I must speak to you once of what passed between us at Liverpool."

"Must you?" said she.

"Unless you positively forbid it."

"Stop, Godfrey," she said.  And they did stop in the path, for now she no longer thought of
putting an end to her embarrassment by overtaking her companions.  "If any such words are necessary
for your comfort, it would hardly become me to forbid them.  Were I to speak so harshly you
would accuse me afterwards in your own heart. It must be for you to judge whether it is well
to reopen a wound that is nearly healed."

"But with me it is not nearly healed.  The wound is open always."

"There are some hurts," she said, "which do not admit of an absolute and perfect cure, unless
after long years."  As she said so, she could not but think how much better was his chance
of such perfect cure than her own.  With her,--so she said to herself,--such curing was all
but impossible; whereas with him, it was as impossible that the injury should last.

"Bessy," he said, and he again stopped her on the narrow path, standing immediately before
her on the way, "you remember all the circumstances that made us part?"

"Yes; I think I remember them."

"And you still think that we were right to part?"

She paused for a moment before she answered him; but it was only for a moment, and then she
spoke quite firmly.  "Yes, Godfrey, I do; I have thought about it much since then.  I have
thought, I fear, to no good purpose about aught else.  But I have never thought that we had
been unwise in that."

"And yet I think you loved me."

"I am bound to confess I did so, as otherwise I must confess myself a liar.  I told you at
the time that I loved you, and I told you so truly.  But it is better, ten times better, that
those who love should part, even though they still should love, than that two should be joined
together who are incapable of making each other happy.  Remember what you told me."

"I do remember."

"You found yourself unhappy in your engagement, and you said it was my fault."

"Bessy, there is my hand.  If you have ceased to love me, there is an end of it.  But if you
love me still, let all that be forgotten."

"Forgotten, Godfrey!  How can it be forgotten?  You were unhappy, and it was my fault.  My
fault, as it would be if I tried to solace a sick child with arithmetic, or feed a dog with
grass.  I had no right to love you, knowing you as I did; and knowing also that my ways would
not be your ways.  My punishment I understand, and it is not more than I can bear; but I had
hoped that your punishment would have been soon over."

"You are too proud, Bessy."

"That is very likely.  Frank says that I am a Puritan, and pride was the worst of their sins."

"Too proud and unbending.  In marriage should not the man and woman adapt themselves to each
other?"

"When they are married, yes.  And every girl who thinks of marrying should know that in very
much she must adapt herself to her husband. But I do not think that a woman should be the ivy,
to take the direction of every branch of the tree to which she clings.  If she does so, what
can be her own character?  But we must go on, or we shall be too late."

"And you will give me no other answer?"

"None other, Godfrey.  Have you not just now, at this very moment, told me that I was too proud?
Can it be possible that you should wish to tie yourself for life to female pride?  And if you
tell me that now, at such a moment as this, what would you tell me in the close intimacy of
married life, when the trifles of every day would have worn away the courtesies of guest and
lover?"

There was a sharpness of rebuke in this which Godfrey Holmes could not at the moment overcome.
Nevertheless he knew the girl, and understood the workings of her heart and mind.  Now, in
her present state, she could be unbending, proud, and almost rough.  In that she had much to
lose in declining the renewed offer which he made her, she would, as it were, continually prompt
herself to be harsh and inflexible.  Had he been poor, had she not loved him, had not all good
things seemed to have attended the promise of such a marriage, she would have been less suspicious
of herself in receiving the offer, and more gracious in replying to it.  Had he lost all his
money before he came back to her, she would have taken him at once; or had he been deprived
of an eye, or become crippled in his legs, she would have done so.  But, circumstanced as he
was, she had no motive to tenderness.  There was an organic defect in her character, which
no doubt was plainly marked by its own bump in her cranium,-- the bump of philomartyrdom, it
might properly be called. The Whigs had looked on Pitt'George retirement as the restoration of their
rule, unbroken by the accountable forcefulness to which it had been driven during his priesthood
to bow. His declaration that he had been "called to office by the voice of the people, to whom i
deliver themselves indignant," had been dismissed with great scorn by his Guildhall-ministers.
But his appeal was heard by the people at big. When the statesman went to fellow the Londoners
hung on his carriage-wheels, hugged his footmen, and even kissed his horses. Their break with
Pitt was in fact the death-blow of the Whigs. In betraying him to the sovereign that they had
so put myself in mho'Pitt power; and only popular was the unpopularity of the fault that the
king was able dark to conceive his longed-for stroke at a party that
he came even more than s.  She spoke with scorn of a woman clinging to a tree
like ivy; and yet, were she once married, no woman would cling to her husband with sweeter
feminine tenacity than Bessy Garrow.  He spoke no further word to her as he walked home, but
in handing her down to the ferry-boat he pressed her hand.  For a second it seemed as though
she had returned this pressure.  If so, the action was involuntary, and her hand instantly
resumed its stiffness to his touch.

It was late that night when Major Garrow went to his bedroom, but his wife was still up, waiting
for him.  "Well," said she, "what has he said to you?  He has been with you above an hour."

"Such stories are not very quickly told; and in this case it was necessary to understand him
very accurately.  At length I think I do understand him."

It is not necessary to repeat at length all that was said on that night between Major and Mrs.
Garrow, as to the offer which had now for a third time been made to their daughter.  On that
evening, after the ladies had gone, and when the two boys had taken themselves off, Godfrey
Holmes told his tale to his host, and had honestly explained to him what he believed to be
the state of his daughter's feelings.  "Now you know all," said he.  "I do believe that she
loves me, and if she does, perhaps she may still listen to you."  Major Garrow did not feel
sure that he "knew it all."  But when he had fully discussed the matter that night with his
wife, then he thought that perhaps he had arrived at that knowledge.

On the following morning Bessy learned from the maid, at an early hour, that Godfrey Holmes
had left Thwaite Hall and gone back to Liverpool.  To the girl she said nothing on the subject,
but she felt obliged to say a word or two to Bella.  "It is his coming that I regret," she
said;--"that he should have had the trouble and annoyance for nothing.  I acknowledge that
it was my fault, and I am very sorry."

"It cannot be helped," said Miss Holmes, somewhat gravely.  "As to his misfortunes, I presume
that his journeys between here and Liverpool are not the worst of them."

After breakfast on that day Bessy was summoned into her father's book-room, and found him there,
and her mother also.  "Bessy," said he, "sit down, my dear.  You know why Godfrey has left
us this morning?"

Bessy walked round the room, so that in sitting she might be close to her mother and take her
mother's hand in her own.  "I suppose I do, papa," she said.

"He was with me late last night, Bessy; and when he told me what had passed between you I agreed
with him that he had better go."

"It was better that he should go, papa."

"But he has left a message for you."

"A message, papa?"

"Yes, Bessy.  And your mother agrees with me that it had better be given to you.  It is this,--that
if you will send him word to come again, he will be here by Twelfth-night.  He came before
on my invitation, but if he returns it must be on yours."

"Oh, papa, I cannot."

"I do not say that you can, but think of it calmly before you altogether refuse.  You shall
give me your answer on New Year's morning." 

Lutherans but Moravians from Germany abounded in the settlers of Carolina
and Georgia.

There was the same outer diversity and the same real unity of the
religious tendency and organization among the States.

In such a chaos of creeds political persecution became impossible.
  It would be telling him that you would be his wife.  He would understand
it so, and so would your mother and I. It must be so understood altogether."

"But, papa, when we were at Liverpool--"

"I have told him everything, dearest," said Mrs. Garrow.

"I think I understand the whole," said the Major; "and in such a matter as this I will not
give you counsel on either side.  But you must remember that in making up your mind, you must
think of him as well as of yourself.  If you do not love him;--if you feel that as his wife
you should not love him, there is not another word to be said.  I need not explain to my daughter
that under such circumstances she would be wrong to encourage the visits of a suitor.  But
your mother says you do love him."

