"It is all so splendid!" she cried. "How could you do it so quickly? And in the rain, too!
This is exactly what we need. I've done most of the things I mentioned, I think, and made a
draught of some plans for hereafter. And about that man's coming out for Congress, I must tell
you it is my greatest hope that he will. We can let it go until he does, and then----But doesn't
it seem to you that it would be a good notion for the 'Herald' to have a woman's page--'For
Feminine Readers,' or, 'Of Interest to Women'--once a week?"

"A woman's page!" exclaimed Fisbee. "I could never have thought of that, could you, Mr. Parker?"

"And now," she continued, "I think that when I've gone over what I've written and beat it into
better shape I shall be ready for something to eat. Isn't it almost time for luncheon?"

This simple, and surely natural, inquiry had a singular, devastating effect upon her hearers.
They looked upon each other with fallen jaws and complete stupefaction. The old man began to
grow pale, and Parker glared about him with a wild eye. Fortunately, the editor was too busy
at her work to notice their agitation; she applied herself to making alterations here and there,
sometimes frowningly crossing out whole lines and even paragraphs, sometimes smiling and beaming
at the writing; and, as she bent earnestly over the paper, against the darkness of the rainy
day, the glamour about her fair hair was like a light in the room. To the minds of her two
companions, this lustre was a gentle but unbearable accusation; and each dreaded the moment
when her Work should be finished, with a great dread. There was a small "store-room" adjoining
the office, and presently Mr. Parker, sweating at the brow, walked in there. The old man gave
him a look of despairing reproach, but in a moment the foreman's voice was heard: "Oh, Mr.
Fisbee, can you step here a second?"

"Yes, indeed!" was Fisbee's reply; and he fled guiltily into the "store-room," and Parker closed
the door. They stood knee-deep in the clutter and lumber, facing each other abjectly.

"Well, we're both done, anyway, Mr. Fisbee," remarked the foreman.

"Indubitably, Mr. Parker," the old man answered; "it is too true."

"Never to think a blame thing about dinner for her!" Parker continued, remorsefully. "And her
a lady that can turn off copy like a rotary snowplough in a Dakota blizzard! Did you see the
sheets she's piled up on that desk?"

"There is no cafe--nothing--in Plattville, that could prepare food worthy of her," groaned
Fisbee. "Nothing!"

"And we never thought of it. Never made a single arrangement. Never struck us she didn't live
on keeping us dry and being good, I guess."

"How can I go there and tell her that?"

"Lord!"

"She cannot go to the hotel----"

"Well, I guess not! It ain't fit for her. Lum's table is hard enough on a strong man. Landis
doesn't know a good cake from a Fiji missionary pudding. I don't expect pie is much her style,
and, besides, the Palace Hotel pies--well!--the boss was a mighty uncomplaining man, but I
used to notice his articles on field drainage got kind of sour and low-spirited when they'd
been having more than the regular allowance of pie for dinner. She can't go there anyway; it's
no use; it's after two o'clock, and the dining-room shuts off at one. I wonder what kind of
cake she likes best."

"I don't know," said the perplexed Fisbee. "If we ask her--"

"If we could sort of get it out of her diplomatically, we could telegraph to Rouen for a good one."

"Ha!" said the other, brightening up. "You try it, Mr. Parker. I fear I have not much skill
in diplomacy, but if you----"

The compositor's mouth drooped at the corners, and he interrupted gloomily: "But it wouldn't
get here till to-morrow."

"True; it would not."

They fell into a despondent reverie, with their chins in their bosoms. There came a cheerful
voice from the next room, but to them it brought no cheer; in their ears it sounded weak from
the need of food and faint with piteous reproach.

"Father, aren't you coming to have luncheon with me?"

"Mr. Parker, what are we to do?" whispered the old man, hoarsely.

"Is it too far to take her to Briscoes'?"

"In the rain?"

"Take her with you to Tibbs's."

"Their noon meal is long since over; and their larder is not--is not--extensive."

"Father!" called the girl. She was stirring; they could hear her moving about the room.

"You've got to go in and tell her," said the foreman, desperately, and together they stumbled
into the room. A small table at one end of it was laid with a snowy cloth and there was a fragrance
of tea, and, amidst various dainties, one caught a glimpse of cold chicken and lettuce leaves.
Fisbee stopped, dumfounded, but the foreman, after stammeringly declining an invitation to
partake, alleging that his own meal awaited, sped down to the printing-room, and seized upon
Bud Tipworthy with a heavy hand.

"Where did all that come from, up there?"

"Leave go me! What 'all that'?"

"All that tea and chicken and salad and wafers--all kinds of things; sardines, for all I know!"

"They come in Briscoes' buckboard while you was gone. Briscoes sent 'em in a basket; I took
'em up and she set the basket under the table. You'd seen it if you'd 'a' looked. Quit that!"
And it was unjust to cuff the perfectly innocent and mystified Bud, and worse not to tell him
what the punishment was for.

Before the day was over, system had been introduced, and the "Herald" was running on it: and
all that warm, rainy afternoon, the editor and Fisbee worked in the editorial rooms, Parker
and Bud and Mr. Schofield (after his return with the items and a courteous message from Ephraim
Watts) bent over the forms downstairs, and Uncle Xenophon was cleaning the store-room and scrubbing
the floor.

An extraordinary number of errands took the various members of the printing force up to see
the editor-in-chief, literally to see the editor-in-chief; it was hard to believe that the
presence had not flown--hard to keep believing, without the repeated testimony of sight, that
the dingy room upstairs was actually the setting for their jewel; and a jewel they swore she
was. The printers came down chuckling and gurgling after each interview; it was partly the
thought that she belonged to the "Herald," their paper. Once Ross, as he cut down one of the
temporarily distended advertisements, looked up and caught the foreman giggling to himself.

"What in the name of common-sense you laughin' at, Cale?" he asked.

"What are you laughing at?" rejoined the other.

"I dunno!"

The day wore on, wet and dreary outside, but all within the "Herald's" bosom was snug and busy
and murmurous with the healthy thrum of life and prosperity renewed. Toward six o'clock, system
accomplished, the new guiding-spirit was deliberating on a policy as Harkless would conceive
a policy, were he there, when Minnie Briscoe ran joyously up the stairs, plunged into the room,
waterproofed and radiant, and caught her friend in her eager arms, and put an end to policy
for that day.

But policy and labor did not end at twilight every day; there were evenings, as in the time
of Harkless, when lamps shone from the upper windows of the "Herald" building. For the little
editor worked hard, and sometimes she worked late; she always worked early. She made some mistakes
at first, and one or two blunders which she took more seriously than any one else did. But
she found a remedy for all such results of her inexperience, and she developed experience.
She set at her task with the energy of her youthfulness and no limit to her ambition, and she
felt that Harkless had prepared the way for a wide expansion of the paper's interests; wider
than he knew. She had a belief that there were possibilities for a country newspaper, and she
brought a fresh point of view to operate in a situation where Harkless had fallen, perhaps,
too much in the rut; and she watched every chance with a keen eye and looked ahead of her with
clear foresight. What she waited and yearned for and dreaded, was the time when a copy of the
new "Herald" should be placed in the trembling hands of the man who lay in the Rouen hospital.
Then, she felt, if he, unaware of her identity, should place everything in her hands unreservedly,
that would be a tribute to her work--and how hard she would labor to deserve it! After a time,
she began to realize that, as his representative and the editor of the "Herald," she had become
a factor in district politics. It took her breath--but with a gasp of delight, for there was
something she wanted to do.

Above all, she brought a light heart to her work. One evening in the latter part of that first
week of the new regime, Parker perceived Bud Tipworthy standing in the doorway of the printing-room,
beckoning him silently to come without.

"What's the matter, Buddie?"

"Listen. She's singin' over her work."

Parker stepped outside. On the pavement, people had stopped to listen; they stood in the shadow,
looking up with parted lips at the open, lighted Windows, whence came a clear, soft, reaching
voice, lifted in song; now it swelled louder, unconsciously; now its volume was more slender
and it melted liquidly into the night; again, it trembled and rose and dwelt in the ear, strong
and pure; and, hearing it, you sighed with unknown longings. It was the "Angels' Serenade."

Bud Tipworthy's sister, Cynthia, was with him, and Parker saw that she turned from the window
and that she was crying, quietly; she put her hand on the boy's shoulder and patted it with
a forlorn gesture which, to the foreman's eye, was as graceful as it was sad. He moved closer
to Bud and his big hand fell on Cynthia's brother's other shoulder, as he realized that red
hair could look pretty sometimes; and he wondered why the editor's singing made Cynthy cry;
and at the same time he decided to be mighty good to Bud henceforth. The spell of night and
song was on him; that and something more; for it is a strange, inexplicable fact that the most
practical chief ever known to the "Herald" had a singularly sentimental influence over her
subordinates, from the moment of her arrival. Under Harkless's domination there had been no
more steadfast bachelors in Carlow than Ross Schofield and Caleb Parker, and, like timorous
youths in a graveyard, daring and mocking the ghosts in order to assuage their own fears, they
had so jibed and jeered at the married state that there was talk of urging the minister to
preach at them; but now let it be recorded that at the moment Caleb laid his hand on Bud's
other shoulder, his associate, Mr. Schofield, was enjoying a walk in the far end of town with
a widow, and it is not to be doubted that Mr. Tipworthy's heart, also, was no longer in his
possession, though, as it was after eight o'clock, the damsel of his desire had probably long
since retired to her couch.

For some faint light on the cause of these spells, we must turn to a comment made by the invaluable
Mr. Martin some time afterward. Referring to the lady to whose voice he was now listening in
silence (which shows how great the enthralling of her voice was), he said: "When you saw her,
or heard her, or managed to be around, any, where she was, why, if you couldn't git up no hope
of marryin' her, you wanted to marry somebody."

Mr. Lige Willetts, riding idly by, drew rein in front of the lighted windows, and listened
with the others. Presently he leaned from his horse and whispered to a man near him:

"I know that song."

"Do you?" whispered the other.

"Yes; he and I heard her sing it, the night he was shot."

"So!"

"Yes, sir. It's by Beethoven.