By the time the worthies had finished the bottle, they had got a certain way into each other's
confidence. The hint Lord Scamperdale had given about buying Sponge's horses still occupied
Jack's mind; and the more he considered the subject, and the worth of a corner in his lordship's
will, the more sensible he became of the truth of the old adage, that 'a bird in the hand is
worth two in the bush.' 'My lord,' thought Jack, 'promises fair, but it is but a chance, and
a remote one. He may live many years--as long, perhaps longer, than me. Indeed, he puts me
on horses that are anything but calculated to promote longevity. Then he may marry a wife who
may eject me, as some wives do eject their husbands' agreeable friends; or he may change his
mind, and leave me nothing after all.'

All things considered, Jack came to the conclusion that he should not be doing himself justice
if he did not take advantage of such fair opportunities as chance placed in his way, and therefore
he thought he might as well be picking up a penny during his lordship's life, as be waiting
for a contingency that might never occur. Mr. Jawleyford's indisposition preventing Jack making
the announcement he was sent to do, made it incumbent on him, as he argued, to see what could
be done with the alternative his lordship had proposed--namely, buying Sponge's horses. At
least. Jack salved his conscience over with the old plea of duty; and had come to that conclusion
as he again helped himself to the last glass in the bottle.

'Would you like a little claret?' asked Sponge, with all the hospitality of a host.

'No, hang your claret!' replied Jack.

'A little brandy, perhaps?' suggested Sponge.

'I shouldn't mind a glass of brandy,' replied Jack, 'by way of a nightcap.'

Spigot, at this moment entering to announce tea and coffee, was interrupted in his oration
by Sponge demanding some brandy.

'Sorry,' replied Spigot, pretending to be quite taken by surprise, 'very sorry, sir--but, sir--master,
sir--bed, sir--disturb him, sir.'

'Oh, dash it, never mind that!' exclaimed Jack; 'tell him Mr. Sprag--Sprag--Spraggon' (the
bottle of port beginning to make Jack rather inarticulate)--'tell him Mr. Spraggon wants a little.'

'Dursn't disturb him, sir,' responded Spigot, with a shake of his head; 'much as my place,
sir, is worth, sir.'

'Haven't you a little drop in your pantry, think you?' asked Sponge.

'The cook perhaps has,' replied Mr. Spigot, as if it was quite out of his line.

'Well, go and ask her,' said Sponge; 'and bring some hot water and things, the same as we had
last night, you know.'

Mr. Spigot retired, and presently returned, bearing a tray with three-quarters of a bottle
of brandy, which he impressed upon their minds was the 'cook's own.'

'I dare say,' hiccuped Jack, holding the bottle up to the light.

'Hope she wasn't using it herself,' observed Sponge.

'Tell her we'll (hiccup) her health,' hiccuped Jack, pouring a liberal potation into his tumbler.

'That'll be all you'll do, I dare say,' muttered Spigot to himself, as he sauntered back to
his pantry.

'Does Jaw stand smoking?' asked Jack, as Spigot disappeared.

'Oh, I should think so,' replied Sponge; 'a friend like you, I'm sure, would be welcome'--Sponge
thinking to indulge in a cigar, and lay the blame on Jack.

'Well, if you think so,' said Jack, pulling out his cigar-case, or rather his lordship's, and
staggering to the chimney-piece for a match, though there was a candle at his elbow, 'I'll
have a pipe.'

'So'll I,' said Sponge, 'if you'll give me a cigar.' 'Much yours as mine,' replied Jack, handing
him his lordship's richly embroidered case with coronets and ciphers on either side, the gift
of one of the many would-be Lady Scamperdales.

'Want a light!' hiccuped Jack, who had now got a glow-worm end to his.

'Thanks,' said Sponge, availing himself of the friendly overture.

Our friends now whiffed and puffed away together--whiffing and puffing where whiffing and puffing
had never been known before. The brandy began to disappear pretty quickly; it was better than
the wine.

'That's a n--n--nice--ish horse of yours,' stammered Jack, as he mixed himself a second tumbler.

'Which?' asked Sponge.

'The bur--bur--brown,' spluttered Jack.

'He is that,' replied Sponge; 'best horse in this country by far.'

'The che--che--chest--nut's not a ba--ba--bad un. I dare say,' observed Jack.

'No, he's not,' replied Sponge; 'a deuced good un.'

'I know a man who's rayther s--s--s--sweet on the b--b--br--brown,' observed Jack, squinting
frightfully.

Sponge sat silent for a few seconds, pretending to be wrapt up in his 'sublime tobacco.'

'Is he a buyer, or just a jawer?' he asked at last.

'Oh, a buyer,' replied Jack.

'I'll sell,' said Sponge, with a strong emphasis on the sell.

'How much?' asked Jack, sobering with the excitement.

'Which?' asked Sponge.

'The brown,' rejoined Jack.

'Three hundred,' said Sponge; adding, 'I gave two for him.'

'Indeed!' said Jack.

A long pause then ensued. Jack thinking whether he should put the question boldly as to what
Sponge would give him for effecting a sale, or should beat about the bush a little. At last
he thought it would be most prudent to beat about the bush, and see if Sponge would make an offer.

'Well,' said Jack, 'I'll s--s--s--see what I can do.'

'That's a good fellow,' said Sponge; adding, 'I'll remember you if you do.'

'I dare say I can s--s--s--sell them both, for that matter,' observed Jack, encouraged by the
promise.

'Well,' replied Sponge, 'I'll take the same for the chestnut; there isn't the toss-up of a
halfpenny for choice between them.'

'Well,' said Jack,' we'll s--s--s--see them next week.'

'Just so,' said Sponge.

'You r--r--ride well up to the h--h--hounds,' continued Jack; 'and let his lordship s--s--see
w--w--what they can do.'

'I will,' said Sponge, wishing he was at work.

'Never mind his rowing,' observed Jack; 'he c--c--can't help it.'

'Not I,' replied Sponge, puffing away at his cigar.

When men once begin to drink brandy-and-water (after wine) there's an end of all note of time.
Our friends--for we 'may now call them so,' sat sip, sip, sipping--mix, mix, mixing; now strengthening,
now weakening, now warming, now flavouring, till they had not only finished the hot water but
a large jug of cold, that graced the centre of the table between two frosted tumblers, and
had nearly got through the brandy too.

'May as well fi--fi--fin--nish the bottle,' observed Jack, holding it up to the candle. 'Just
a thi--thi--thim--bleful apiece,' added he, helping himself to about three-quarters of what
there was.

'You've taken your share,' observed Sponge, as the bottle suspended payment before he got half
the quantity that Jack had.

'Sque--ee--eze it,' replied Jack, suiting the action to the word, and working away at an exhausted
lemon.

At length they finished.

'Well, I s'pose we may as well go and have some tea,' observed Jack.

'It's not announced yet,' said Sponge, 'but I make no doubt it will be ready.'

So saying, the worthies rose, and, after sundry bumps and certain irregularities of course,
they each succeeded in reaching the door. The passage lamp had died out and filled the corridor
with its fragrance. Sponge, however, knew the way, and the darkness favored the adjustment
of cravats and the fingering of hair. Having got up a sort of drunken simper, Sponge opened
the drawing-room door, expecting to find smiling ladies in a blaze of light. All, however,
was darkness, save the expiring embers in the grate. The tick, tick, tick, ticking of the clocks
sounded wonderfully clear.

'Gone to bed!' exclaimed Sponge.

'WHO-HOOP!' shrieked Jack, at the top of his voice.

'What's smatter, gentlemen?--What's smatter?' exclaimed Spigot rushing in, rubbing his eyes
with one hand, and holding a block tin candlestick in the other.

'Nothin',' replied Jack, squinting his eyes inside out; adding, 'get me a devilled--' (hiccup).

'Don't know how to do them here, sir,' snapped Spigot.

'Devilled turkey's leg though you do, you rascal!' rejoined Jack, doubling his fists and putting
himself in posture.

'Beg pardon, sir,' replied Spigot, 'but the cook, sir, is gone to bed, sir. Do you know, sir,
what o'clock it is, sir?'

'No,' replied Jack.

'What time is it?' asked Sponge.

'Twenty minutes to two,' replied Spigot, holding up a sort of pocket warming-pan, which he
called a watch.

'The deuce!' exclaimed Sponge.

'Who'd ha' thought it?' muttered Jack.

'Well, then, I suppose we may as well go to bed,' observed Sponge.

'S'pose so,' replied Jack; 'nothin' more to get.'

'Do you know your room?' asked Sponge.

'To be sure I do,' replied Jack; 'don't think I'm d--d--dr--drunk, do you?'

'Not likely,' rejoined Sponge.

Jack then commenced a very crab-like ascent of the stairs, which fortunately were easy, or
he would never have got up. Mr. Sponge, who still occupied the state apartments, took leave
of Jack at his own door, and Jack went bumping and blundering on in search of the branch passage
leading to his piggery. He found the green baize door that usually distinguishes the entrance
to these secondary suites, and was presently lurching along its contracted passage. As luck
would have it, however, he got into his host's dressing-room, where that worthy slept; and
when Jawleyford jumped up in the morning, as was his wont, to see what sort of a day it was,
he trod on Jack's face, who had fallen down in his clothes alongside of the bed, and Jawleyford
broke Jack's spectacles across the bridge of his nose.

'Rot it!' roared Jack, jumping up, 'don't ride over a fellow that way!' When, shaking himself
to try whether any limbs were broken, he found he was in his dress clothes instead of in the
roomy garments of the Flat Hat Hunt. 'Who are you? where am I? what the deuce do you mean by
breaking my specs?' he exclaimed, squinting frightfully at his host.

'My dear sir,' exclaimed Mr. Jawleyford, from the top of his night-shirt, 'I'm very sorry, but--'

'Hang your buts! you shouldn't ride so near a man!' exclaimed Jack, gathering up the fragments
of his spectacles; when, recollecting himself, he finished by saying, 'Perhaps I'd better go
to my own room.'

'Perhaps you had,' replied Mr. Jawleyford, advancing towards the door to show him the way.

'Let me have a candle,' said Jack, preparing to follow.

'Candle, my dear fellow! why, it's broad daylight,' replied his host.

'Is it?' said Jack, apparently unconscious of the fact. 'What's the hour?'

'Five minutes to eight,' replied Jawleyford, looking at a timepiece.

When Jack got into his own den he threw himself into an old invalid chair, and sat rubbing
the fractured spectacles together as if he thought they would unite by friction, though in
reality he was endeavouring to run the overnight's proceedings through his mind. The more he
thought of Amelia's winning ways, the more satisfied he was that he had made an impression,
and then the more vexed he was at having his spectacles broken: for though he considered himself
very presentable without them, still he could not but feel that they were a desirable addition.
Then, too, he had a splitting headache; and finding that breakfast was not till ten and might
be a good deal later, all things considered, he determined to be off and follow up his success
under more favourable auspices. Considering that all the clothes he had with him were his lordship's,
he thought it immaterial which he went home in, so to save trouble he just wrapped himself
up in his mackintosh and travelled in the dress ones he had on.

It was fortunate for Mr. Sponge that he went, for, when Jawleyford smelt the indignity that
had been offered to his dining-room, he broke out in such a torrent of indignation as would
have been extremely unpleasant if there had not been some one to lay the blame on. Indeed,
he was not particularly gracious to Mr. Sponge as it was; but that arose as much from certain
dark hints that had worked their way from the servants' hall into 'my lady's chamber' as to
our friend's pecuniary resources and prospects. Jawleyford began to suspect that Sponge might
not be quite the great 'catch' he was represented.

Beyond, however, putting a few searching questions--which Mr. Sponge skilfully parried--advising
his daughters to be cautious, lessening the number of lights, and lowering the scale of his
entertainments generally, Mr. Jawleyford did not take any decided step in the matter. Mr. Spraggon
comforted Lord Scamperdale with the assurance that Amelia had no idea of Sponge, who he made
no doubt would very soon be out of the country--and his lordship went to church and prayed
most devoutly for him to go.

CHAPTER XXVI

MR. AND MRS. SPRINGWHEAT

    'Lord Scamperdale's foxhounds meet on Monday at Larkhall Hill,'
    &c. &c.--County Paper.

The Flat Hat Hunt had relapsed into its wonted quiet, and 'Larkhall Hill' saw none but the
regular attendants, men without the slightest particle of curve in their hats--hats, indeed,
that looked as if the owners sat upon them when they hadn't them on their heads. There was
Fyle, and Fossick, and Blossomnose, and Sparks, and Joyce, and Capon, and Dribble, and a few
others, but neither Washball nor Puffington, nor any of the holiday birds.

Precisely at ten, my lord, and his hounds, and his huntsman, and his whips, and his Jack, trotted
round Farmer Springwheat's spacious back premises, and appeared in due form before the green
rails in front. 'Pride attends us all,' as the poet says; and if his lordship had ridden into
the yard, and halloaed out for a glass of home-brewed, Springwheat would have trapped every
fox on his farm, and the blooming Mrs. Springwheat would have had an interminable poultry-bill
against the hunt; whereas, simply by 'making things pleasant'--that is to say, coming to breakfast--Springwheat
saw his corn trampled on, nay, led the way over it himself, and Mrs. Springwheat saw her Dorkings
disappear without a murmur--unless, indeed, an inquiry when his lordship would be coming could
be considered in that light.

Larkhall Hill stood in the centre of a circle, on a gentle eminence, commanding a view over
a farm whose fertile fields and well-trimmed fences sufficiently indicated its boundaries,
and looked indeed as if all the good of the country had come up to it. It was green and luxuriant
even in winter, while the strong cane-coloured stubbles showed what a crop there had been.
Turnips as big as cheeses swelled above the ground. In a little narrow dell, whose existence
was more plainly indicated from the house by several healthy spindling larches shooting up
from among the green gorse, was the cover--an almost certain find, with the almost equal certainty
of a run from it. It occupied both sides of the sandy, rabbit-frequented dell, through which
ran a sparkling stream, and it possessed the great advantage to foot-people of letting them
see the fox found. Larkhall Hill was, therefore, a favourite both with horse and foot. So much
good--at all events, so much well-farmed land would seem to justify a better or more imposing-looking
house, the present one consisting, exclusive of the projecting garret ones in the Dutch tile
roof, of the usual four windows and a door, that so well tell their own tale; passage in the
middle, staircase in front, parlour on the right, best ditto on the left, with rooms to correspond
above. To be sure, there was a great depth of house to the back; but this in no way contributed
to the importance of the front, from which point alone the Springwheats chose to have it contemplated.
If the back arrangements could have been divided, and added to the sides, they would have made
two very good wings to the old red brick rose-entwined mansion. Having mentioned that its colour
was red, it is almost superfluous to add that the door and rails were green.

This was a busy morning at Larkhall Hill. It was the first day of the season of my lord's hounds
meeting there, and the handsome Mrs. Springwheat had had as much trouble in overhauling the
china and linen, and in dressing the children, preparatory to breakfast, as Springwheat had
had in collecting knives and forks, and wine-glasses and tumblers for his department of the
entertainment, to say nothing of looking after his new tops and cords. 'The Hill,' as the country
people call it, was 'full fig'; and a bright, balmy winter's day softened the atmosphere, and
felt as though a summer's day had been shaken out of its place into winter. It is not often
that the English climate is accommodating enough to lend its aid to set off a place to advantage.

Be that, however, as it may, things looked smiling both without and within. Mrs. Springwheat,
by dint of early rising and superintendence, had got things into such a state of forwardness
as to be able to adorn herself with a little jaunty cap--curious in microscopic punctures and
cherry-coloured ribbon interlardments--placed so far back on her finely-shaped head as to proclaim
beyond all possibility of cavil that it was there for ornament, and not for the purpose of
concealing the liberties of time with her well-kept, clearly parted, raven-black hair. Liberties
of time, forsooth! Mrs. Springwheat was in the heighday of womanhood; and though she had presented
Springwheat with twins three times in succession, besides an eldest son, she was as young,
fresh-looking, and finely figured as she was the day she was married. She was now dressed in
a very fine French grey merino, with a very small crochet-work collar, and, of course, capacious
muslin sleeves. The high flounces to her dress set off her smart waist to great advantage.

Mrs. Springwheat had got everything ready, and herself too, by the time Lord Scamperdale's
second horseman rode into the yard and demanded a stall for his horse. Knowing how soon the
balloon follows the pilot, she immediately ranged the Stunner-tartan-clad children in the breakfast-room;
and as the first whip's rate sounded as he rode round the corner, she sank into an easy-chair
by the fire, with a lace-fringed kerchief in the one hand and the Mark Lane Express in the other.

'Halloa! Springey!' followed by the heavy crack of a whip, announced the arrival of his lordship
before the green palings; and a loud view halloa burst from Jack, as the object of inquiry
was seen dancing about the open-windowed room above, with his face all flushed with the exertion
of pulling on a very tight boot.

'Come in, my lord! pray, come in! The missis is below!' exclaimed Springwheat, from the window;
and just at the moment the pad-groom emerged from the house, and ran to his lordship's horse's
head.

His lordship and Jack then dismounted, and gave their hacks in charge of the servant; while
Wake, and Fyle, and Archer, who were also of the party, scanned the countenances of the surrounding
idlers, to see in whose hands they had best confide their nags.

In Lord Scamperdale stamped, followed by his train-band bold, and Maria, the maid, being duly
stationed in the passage, threw open the parlour door on the left, and discovered Mrs. Springwheat
sitting in attitude.

'Well, my lady, and how are you?' exclaimed his lordship, advancing gaily, and seizing both
her pretty hands as she rose to receive him. 'I declare, you look younger and prettier every
time I see you.'

'Oh! my lord,' simpered Mrs. Springwheat, 'you gentlemen are always so complimentary.'

'Not a bit of it!' exclaimed his lordship, eyeing her intently through his silver spectacles,
for he had been obliged to let Jack have the other pair of tortoiseshell-rimmed ones. 'Not
a bit of it,' repeated his lordship. 'I always tell Jack you are the handsomest woman in Christendom;
don't I, Jack?' inquired his lordship, appealing to his factotum.

'Yes, my lord,' replied Jack, who always swore to whatever his lordship said.

'By Jove!' continued his lordship, with a stamp of his foot, 'if I could find such a woman
I'd marry her to-morrow. Not such women as you to pick up every day. And what a lot of pretty
pups!' exclaimed his lordship, starting back, pretending to be struck with the row of staring,
black-haired, black-eyed, half-frightened children. 'Now, that's what I call a good entry,'
continued his lordship, scrutinizing them attentively, and pointing them out to Jack; 'all
dogs--all boys I mean!' added he.

'No, my lord,' replied Mrs. Springwheat, laughing, 'these are girls,' laying her hand on the
heads of two of them, who were now full giggle at the idea of being taken for boys.

'Well, they're devilish handsome, anyhow,' replied his lordship, thinking he might as well
be done with the inspection.

Springwheat himself now made his appearance, as fine a sample of a man as his wife was of a
woman. His face was flushed with the exertion of pulling on his tight boots, and his lordship
felt the creases the hooks had left as he shook him by the hand.

'Well, Springey,' said he, 'I was just asking your wife after the new babby.'

'Oh, thank you, my lord,' replied Springey, with a shake of his curly head; 'thank you, my
lord; no new babbies, my lord, with wheat below forty, my lord.'

'Well, but you've got a pair of new boots, at all events,' observed his lordship, eyeing Springwheat's
refractory calves bagging over the tops of them.

''Deed have I!' replied Springwheat; 'and a pair of uncommon awkward tight customers they are,'
added he, trying to move his feet about in them.

'Ah! you should always have a chap to wear your boots a few times before you put them on yourself,'
observed his lordship. 'I never have a pair of tight uns,' added he; 'Jack here always does
the needful by mine.'

'That's all very well for lords,' replied Mr. Springwheat; 'but us farmers wear out our boots
fast enough ourselves, without anybody to help us.'

'Well, but I s'pose we may as well fall to,' observed his lordship, casting his eye upon the
well-garnished table. 'All these good things are meant to eat, I s'pose,' added he: 'cakes,
and sweets, and jellies without end: and as to your sideboard,' said he, turning round and
looking at it, 'it's a match for any Lord Mayor's. A round of beef, a ham, a tongue, and is
that a goose or a turkey?'

'A turkey, my lord,' replied Springwheat; 'home-fed, my lord.'

'Ah, home-fed, indeed!' ejaculated his lordship, with a shake of the head: 'home-fed: wish
I could feed at home. The man who said that

    E'en from the peasant to the lord,
    The turkey smokes on every board,

told a big un, for I'm sure none ever smokes on mine.'

'Take a little here to-day, then,' observed Mr. Springwheat, cutting deep into the white breast.

'I will,' replied his lordship, 'I will: and a slice of tongue, too,' added he.

'There are some hot sausingers comin',' observed Mr. Springwheat.

'You don't say so,' replied his lordship, apparently thunderstruck at the announcement. 'Well,
I must have all three. By Jove, Jack!' said he, appealing to his friend, 'but you've lit on
your legs coming here. Here's a breakfast fit to set before the Queen--muffins, and crumpets,
and cakes. Let me advise you to make the best use of your time, for you have but twenty minutes,'
continued his lordship, looking at his watch, 'and muffins and crumpets don't come in your
way every day.'

''Deed they don't,' replied Jack, with a grin.

'Will your lordship take tea or coffee?' asked Mrs. Springwheat, who had now taken her seat
at the top of the table, behind a richly chased equipage for the distribution of those beverages.

''Pon my word,' replied his lordship, apparently bewildered--''pon my word, I don't know what
to say. Tea or coffee? To tell you the truth, I was going to take something out of my black
friend yonder,' nodding to where a French bottle like a tall bully was lifting its head above
an encircling stand of liqueur-glasses.

'Suppose you have a little of what we call laced tea, my lord--tea with a dash of brandy in
it?' suggested Mr. Springwheat.

'Laced tea,' repeated his lordship; 'laced tea: so I will,' said he. 'Deuced good idea--deuced
good idea,' continued he, bringing the bottle and seating himself on Mrs. Springwheat's right,
while his host helped him to a most plentiful plate of turkey and tongue. The table was now
about full, as was the room; the guests just rolling in as they would to a public-house, and
helping themselves to whatever they liked. Great was the noise of eating.

As his lordship was in the full enjoyment of his plateful of meat, he happened to look up,
and, the space between him and the window being clear, he saw something that caused him to
drop his knife and fork and fall back in his chair as if he was shot.

'My lord's ill!' exclaimed Mr. Springwheat, who, being the only man with his nose up, was the
first to perceive it.

'Clap him on the back!' shrieked Mrs. Springwheat, who considered that an infallible recipe
for the ailments of children.

'Oh, Mr. Spraggon!' exclaimed both, as they rushed to his assistance, 'what is the matter with
my lord?'

'Oh, that Mister something!' gasped his lordship, bending forward in his chair, and venturing
another glance through the window.

Sure enough, there was Sponge, in the act of dismounting from the piebald, and resigning it
with becoming dignity to his trusty groom, Mr. Leather, who stood most respectfully--Parvo
in hand--waiting to receive it.

Mr. Sponge, being of opinion that a red coat is a passport everywhere, having stamped the mud
sparks off his boots at the door, swaggered in with the greatest coolness, exclaiming as he
bobbed his head to the lady, and looked round at the company:

'What, grubbing away! grubbing away, eh?'

'Won't you take a little refreshment?' asked Mr. Springwheat, in the hearty way these hospitable
fellows welcome everybody.

'Yes, I will,' replied Sponge, turning to the sideboard as though it were an inn.' That's a
monstrous fine ham,' observed he; 'why doesn't somebody cut it?'

'Let me help you to some, sir,' replied Mr. Springwheat, seizing the buck-handled knife and
fork, and diving deep into the rich red meat with the knife.

Mr. Sponge having got two bountiful slices, with a knotch of home-made brown bread, and some
mustard on his plate, now made for the table, and elbowed himself into a place between Mr.
Fossick and Sparks, immediately opposite Mr. Spraggon.

'Good morning,' said he to that worthy, as he saw the whites of his eyes showing through his
spectacles.

'Mornin',' muttered Jack, as if his mouth was either too full to articulate, or he didn't want
to have anything to say to Mr. Sponge.

'Here's a fine hunting morning, my lord,' observed Sponge, addressing himself to his lordship,
who sat on Jack's left.

'Here's a very fine hunting morning, my lord,' repeated Sponge, not getting an answer to his
first assertion.

'Is it?' blurted his lordship, pretending to be desperately busy with the contents of his plate,
though in reality his appetite was gone.

A dead pause now ensued, interrupted only by the clattering of knives and forks, and the occasional
exclamations of parties in want of some particular article of food. A chill had come over the
scene--a chill whose cause was apparent to every one, except the worthy host and hostess, who
had not heard of Mr. Sponge's descent upon the country. They attributed it to his lordship's
indisposition, and Mr. Springwheat endeavoured to cheer him up with the prospect of sport.

'There's a brace, if not a leash, of foxes in cover, my lord,' observed he, seeing his lordship
was only playing with the contents of his plate.

'Is there?' exclaimed his lordship, brightening up: 'let's be at 'em!' added he, jumping up
and diving under the side-table for his flat hat and heavy iron hammer-headed whip. 'Good morning,
my dear Mrs. Springwheat,' exclaimed he, putting on his hat and seizing both her soft fat-fingered
hands and squeezing them ardently. 'Good morning, my dear Mrs. Springwheat,' repeated he, adding,
'By Jove! if ever there was an angel in petticoats, you're her; I'd give a hundred pounds for
such a wife as you! I'd give a thousand pounds for such a wife as you! By the powers! I'd give
five thousand pounds for such a wife as you!' With which asseverations his lordship stamped
away in his great clumsy boots, amidst the ill-suppressed laughter of the party.

'No hurry, gentlemen--no hurry,' observed Mr. Springwheat, as some of the keen ones were preparing
to follow, and began sorting their hats, and making the mistakes incident to their being all
the same shape. 'No hurry, sir--no hurry, sir,' repeated Springwheat, addressing Mr. Sponge
specifically; 'his lordship will have a talk to his hounds yet, and his horse is still in the
stable.'

With this assurance Mr. Sponge resumed his seat at the table, where several of the hungry ones
were plying their knives and forks as if they were indeed breaking their fasts.

'Well, old boy, and how are you?' asked Sponge, as the whites of Jack's eyes again settled
upon him, on the latter's looking up from his plateful of sausages.

'Nicely. How are you?' asked Jack.

'Nicely too,' replied Sponge, in the laconic way men speak who have been engaged in some common
enterprise--getting drunk, pelting people with rotten eggs, or anything of that sort.

'Jaw and the ladies well?' asked Jack, in the same strain.

'Oh, nicely,' said Sponge.

'Take a glass of cherry-brandy,' exclaimed the hospitable Mr. Springwheat: 'nothing like a
drop of something for steadying the nerves.'

'Presently,' replied Sponge, 'presently; meanwhile I'll trouble the missis for a cup of coffee.
Coffee without sugar,' said Sponge, addressing the lady.

'With pleasure,' replied Mrs. Springwheat, glad to get a little custom for her goods. Most
of the gentlemen had been at the bottles and sideboard.

Springwheat, seeing Mr. Sponge, the only person who, as a stranger, there was any occasion
for him to attend to, in the care of his wife, now slipped out of the room, and mounting his
five-year-old horse, whose tail stuck out like the long horn of a coach, as his ploughman groom
said, rode off to join the hunt.

'By the powers, but those are capital sarsingers!' observed Jack, smacking his lips and eating
away for hard life. 'Just look if my lord's on his horse yet,' added he to one of the children,
who had begun to hover round the table and dive their fingers into the sweets.

'No,' replied the child; 'he's still on foot, playing with the dogs.'

'Here goes, then,' said Jack, 'for another plate,' suiting the action to the word, and running
with his plate to the sausage-dish.

'Have a hot one,' exclaimed Mrs. Springwheat, adding, 'it will be done in a minute.'

'No, thank ye,' replied Jack, with a shake of the head, adding, 'I might be done in a minute too.'

'He'll wait for you, I suppose?' observed Sponge, addressing Jack.

'Not so clear about that,' replied Jack, gobbling away; 'time and my lord wait for no man.
But it's hardly the half-hour yet,' added he, looking at his watch.

He then fell to with the voracity of a hound after hunting. Sponge, too, made the most of his
time, as did two or three others who still remained.

'Now for the jumping-powder!' at length exclaimed Sponge, looking round for the bottle. 'What
shall it be, cherry or neat?' continued he, pointing to the two. 'Cherry for me,' replied Jack,
squinting and eating away without looking up.

'I say neat,' rejoined Sponge, helping himself out of the French bottle.

'You'll be hard to hold after that,' observed Jack, as he eyed Sponge tossing it off.

'I hope my horse won't,' replied Sponge, remembering he was going to ride the resolute chestnut.

'You'll show us the way, I dare say,' observed Jack.

'Shouldn't wonder,' replied Sponge, helping himself to a second glass.

'What! at it again!' exclaimed Jack, adding, 'Take care you don't ride over my lord.'

'I'll take care of the old file,' said Sponge; 'it wouldn't do to kill the goose that lays
the golden what-do-ye-call-'ems, you know--he, he, he!'

'No,' chuckled Jack;' 'deed it wouldn't--must make the most of him.'

'What sort of a humour is he in to-day?' asked Sponge.

'Middlin',' replied Jack, 'middlin'; he'll abuse you most likely, but that you mustn't mind.'

'Not I,' replied Sponge, who was used to that sort of thing.

'You mustn't mind me either,' observed Jack, sweeping the last piece of sausage into his mouth
with his knife, and jumping up from the table. 'When his lordship rows I row,' added he, diving
under the side-table for his flat hat.

'Hark! there's the horn!' exclaimed Sponge, rushing to the window.

'So there is,' responded Jack, standing transfixed on one leg to the spot.

'By the powers, they're away!' exclaimed Sponge, as his lordship was seen hat in hand careering
over the meadow, beyond the cover, with the tail hounds straining to overtake their flying
comrades. Twang--twang--twang went Frostyface's horn; crack--crack--crack went the ponderous
thongs of the whips; shouts, and yells, and yelps, and whoops, and halloas, proclaimed the
usual wild excitement of this privileged period of the chase. All was joy save among the gourmands
assembled at the door--they looked blank indeed.

'What a sell!' exclaimed Sponge, in disgust, who, with Jack, saw the hopelessness of the case.

'Yonder he goes!' exclaimed a lad, who had run up from the cover to see the hunt from the rising
ground.

'Where?' exclaimed Sponge, straining his eyeballs.

'There!' said the lad, pointing due south. 'D'ye see Tommy Claychop's pasture? Now he's through
the hedge and into Mrs. Starveland's turnip field, making right for Bramblebrake Wood on the hill.'

'So he is,' said Sponge, who now caught sight of the fox emerging from the turnips on to a
grass field beyond.

Jack stood staring through his great spectacles, without deigning a word.

'What shall we do?' asked Sponge.

'Do?' replied Jack, with his chin still up; 'go home, I should think.'

'There's a man down!' exclaimed a groom, who formed one of the group, as a dark-coated rider
and horse measured their length on a pasture.

'It's Mr. Sparks,' said another, adding, 'he's always rolling about.'

'Lor', look at the parson!' exclaimed a third, as Blossomnose was seen gathering his horse
and setting up his shoulders preparatory to riding at a gate.

'Well done, old 'un!' roared a fourth, as the horse flew over it, apparently without an effort.

'Now for Tom!' cried several, as the second whip went galloping up on the line of the gate.

'Ah! he won't have it!' was the cry, as the horse suddenly stopped short, nearly shooting Tom
over his head. 'Try him again--try him again--take a good run--that's him--there, he's over!'
was the cry, as Tom flourished his arm in the air on landing.

'Look! there's old Tommy Baker, the rat-ketcher!' cried another, as a man went working his
arms and legs on an old white pony across a fallow.

'Ah, Tommy! Tommy! you'd better shut up,' observed another: 'a pig could go as fast as that.'

And so they criticized the laggers.

'How did my lord get his horse?' asked Spraggon of the groom who had brought them on, who now
joined the eye-straining group at the door.

'It was taken down to him at the cover,' replied the man. 'My lord went in on foot, and the
horse went round the back way. The horse wasn't there half a minute before he was wanted; for
no sooner were the hounds in at one end than out popped the fox at t'other. Sich a whopper!--biggest
fox that ever was seen.'

'They are all the biggest foxes that ever were seen,' snapped Mr. Sponge.' I'll be bound he
was not a bit bigger than common.'

'I'll be bound not, either,' growled Mr. Spraggon, squinting frightfully at the man, adding,
'go, get me my hack, and don't be talking nonsense there.'

Our friends then remounted their hacks and parted company in very moderate humours, feeling
fully satisfied that his lordship had done it on purpose.

CHAPTER XXVII

THE FINEST RUN THAT EVER WAS SEEN

'Hoo-ray, Jack! Hoo-ray!' exclaimed Lord Scamperdale, bursting into his sanctum where Mr. Spraggon
sat in his hunting coat and slippers, spelling away at a second-hand copy of Bell's Life by
the light of a melancholy mould candle. 'Hooray, Jack! hooray!' repeated he, waving that proud
trophy, a splendid fox's brush, over his grizzly head.

His lordship was the picture of delight. He had had a tremendous run--the finest run that ever
was seen! His hounds had behaved to perfection; his horse--though he had downed him three times--had
carried him well, and his lordship stood with his crownless flat hat in his hand, and one coat
lap in the pocket of the other--a grinning, exulting, self-satisfied specimen of a happy Englishman.

'Lor! what a sight you are!' observed Jack, turning the light of the candle upon his lordship's
dirty person. 'Why, I declare you're an inch thick with mud,' he added, 'mud from head to foot,'
he continued, working the light up and down.

'Never mind the mud, you old badger!' roared his lordship, still waving the brush over his
head: 'never mind the mud, you old badger; the mud'll come off, or may stay on; but such a
run as we've had does not come off every day.'

'Well, I'm glad you have had a run,' replied Jack. 'I'm glad you have had a run,' adding, 'I
was afraid at one time that your day's sport was spoiled.'

'Well, do you know,' replied his lordship, 'when I saw that unrighteous snob, I was near sick.
If it were possible for a man to faint, I should have thought I was going to do so. At first
I thought of going home, taking the hounds away too; then I thought of going myself and leaving
the hounds; then I thought if I left the hounds it would only make the sinful scaramouch more
outrageous, and I should be sitting on pins and needles till they came home, thinking how he
was crashing among them. Next I thought of drawing all the unlikely places in the country,
and making a blank day of it. Then I thought that would only be like cutting off my nose to
spite my face. Then I didn't know what on earth to do. At last, when I saw the critter's great
pecker steadily down in his plate, I thought I would try and steal a march upon him, and get
away with my fox while he was feeding; and, oh! how thankful I was when I looked back from
Bramblebrake Hill, and saw no signs of him in the distance.'

'It wasn't likely you'd see him,' interrupted Jack, 'for he never got away from the front door.
I twigged what you were after, and kept him up in talk about his horses and his ridin' till
I saw you were fairly away.'

'You did well,' exclaimed Lord Scamperdale, patting Jack on the back; 'you did well, my old
buck-o'-wax; and, by Jove! we'll have a bottle of port--a bottle of port, as I live,' repeated
his lordship, as if he had made up his mind to do a most magnificent act.

'But what's happened you behind?--what's happened you behind?' asked Jack, as his lordship
turned to the fire, and exhibited his docked tail.

'Oh, hang the coat!--it's neither here nor there,' replied his lordship; 'hat neither,' he
added, exhibiting its crushed proportions. 'Old Blossomnose did the coat; and as to the hat,
I did it myself--at least, old Daddy Longlegs and I did it between us. We got into a grass-field,
of which they had cut a few roods of fence, just enough to tempt a man out of a very deep lane,
and away we sailed, in the enjoyment of fine sound sward, with the rest of the field plunging
and floundering, and holding and grinning, and thinking what fools they were for not following
my example--when, lo and behold! I got to the bottom of the field, and found there was no way
out--no chance of a bore through the great thick, high hedge, except at a branchy willow, where
there was just enough room to squeeze a horse through, provided he didn't rise at the ditch
on the far side. At first I was for getting off; indeed, had my right foot out of the stirrup,
when the hounds dashed forrard with such energy--looking like running--and remembering the
tremendous climb I should have to get on to old Daddy's back again, and seeing some of the
nasty jealous chaps in the lane eyeing me through the fence, thinking how I was floored, I
determined to stay where I was; and gathering the horse together, tried to squeeze through
the hole. Well, he went shuffling and sliding down to it, as though he were conscious of the
difficulty, and poked his head quietly past the tree, when, getting a sight of the ditch on
the far side, he rose, and banged my head against the branch above, crushing my hat right over
my eyes, and in that position he carried me through blindfold.'

'Indeed!' exclaimed Jack, turning his spectacles full upon his lordship, and adding, 'it's
lucky he didn't crack your crown.'

'It is,' assented his lordship, feeling his head to satisfy himself that he had not done so.

'And how did you lose your tail?' asked Jack, having got the information about the hat.

'The tail! ah, the tail!' replied his lordship, feeling behind, where it wasn't;' I'll tell
you how that was: you see we went away like blazes from Springwheat's gorse--nice gorse it
is, and nice woman he has for a wife--but, however, that's neither here nor there; what I was
going to tell you about was the run, and how I lost my tail. Well, we got away like winking;
no sooner were the hounds in on one side than away went the fox on the other. Not a soul shouted
till he was clean gone; hats in the air was all that told his departure. The fox thus had time
to run matters through his mind--think whether he should go to Ravenscar Craigs, or make for
the main earths at Painscastle Grove. He chose the latter, doubtless feeling himself strong
and full of running; and if we had chosen his ground for him he could not have taken us a finer
line. He went as straight as an arrow through Bramblebrake Wood, and then away down the hill
over those great enormous pastures to Haselbury Park, which he skirted, leaving Evercreech
Green on the left, pointing as if for Dormston Dean. Here he was chased by a cur, and the hounds
were brought to a momentary check. Frosty, however, was well up, and a hat being held up on
Hothersell Hill, he clapped forrard and laid the hounds on beyond. We then viewed the fox sailing
away over Eddlethorp Downs, still pointing for Painscastle Grove, with the Hamerton Brook lighting
up here and there in the distance.

'The field, I should tell you, were fairly taken by surprise. There wasn't a man ready for
a start; my horse had only just come down. Fossick was on foot, drawing his girths; Fyle was
striking a light to smoke a cigar on his hack; Blossomnose and Capon's grooms were fistling
and wisping their horses; Dribble, as usual, was all behind; and altogether there was such
a scene of hurry and confusion as never was seen.

'As they came to the brook they got somewhat into line, and one saw who was there. Five or
six of us charged it together, and two went under. One was Springwheat on his bay, who was
somewhat pumped out; the other was said to be Hook. Old Daddy Longlegs skimmed it like a swallow,
and, getting his hind-legs well under him, shot over the pastures beyond, as if he was going
upon turf. The hounds all this time had been running, or rather racing, nearly mute. They now,
however, began to feel for the scent; and, as they got upon the cold, bleak grounds above Somerton
Quarries, they were fairly brought to their noses. Uncommon glad I was to see them; for ten
minutes more, at the pace they had been going, would have shaken off every man Jack of us.
As it was, it was bellows to mend; and Calcott's roarer roared as surely roarer never roared
before. You could hear him half a mile off. We had barely time, however, to turn our horses
to the wind, and ease them for a few moments, before the pace began to mend, and from a catching
to a holding scent they again poured across Wallingburn pastures, and away to Roughacres Court.
It was between these places that I got my head duntled into my hat,' continued his lordship,
knocking the crownless hat against his mud-stained knee. 'However, I didn't care a button,
though I'd not worn it above two years, and it might have lasted me a long time about home;
but misfortunes seldom come singly, and I was soon to have another. The few of us that were
left were all for the lanes, and very accommodating the one between Newton Bushell and the
Forty-foot Bank was, the hounds running parallel within a hundred yards on the left for nearly
a mile. When, however, we got to the old water-mill in the fields below, the fox made a bend
to the left, as if changing his mind, and making for Newtonbroome Woods, and we were obliged
to try the fortunes of war in the fields. The first fence we came to looked like nothing, and
there was a weak place right in my line that I rode at, expecting the horse would easily bore
through a few twigs that crossed the upper part of it. These, however, happened to be twisted,
to stop the gap, and not having put on enough steam, they checked him as he rose, and brought
him right down on his head in the broad ditch, on the far side. Old Blossomnose, who was following
close behind, not making any allowance for falls, was in the air before I was well down, and
his horse came with a forefoot, into my pocket, and tore the lap clean off by the skirt'; his
lordship exhibiting the lap as he spoke.

'It's your new coat, too,' observed Jack, examining it with concern as he spoke.

''Deed, is it!' replied his lordship, with a shake of the head. ''Deed, is it! That's the consequence
of having gone out to breakfast. If it had been to-morrow, for instance, I should have had
number two on, or maybe number three,' his lordship having coats of every shade and grade,
from stainless scarlet down to tattered mulberry colour.

'It'll mend, however,' observed his lordship, taking it back from Jack; 'it'll mend, however,'
he said, fitting it round to the skirt as he spoke.

'Oh, nicely!' replied Jack; 'it's come off clean by the skirt. But what said Old Blossom?'
inquired Jack.

'Oh, he was full of apologies and couldn't helps it as usual,' replied his lordship; 'he was
down, too, I should tell you, with his horse on his left leg; but there wasn't much time for
apologies or explanation, for the hounds were running pretty sharp, considering how long they
had been at work, and there was the chance of others jumping upon us if we didn't get out of
the way, so we both scrambled up as quick as we could and got into our places again.'

'Which way did you go, then?' asked Jack, who had listened with the attention of a man who
knows every yard of the country.

'Well,' continued his lordship, casting back to where he got his fall, 'the fox crossed the
Coatenburn township, picking all the plough and bad-scenting ground as he went, but it was
of no use, his fate was sealed; and though he began to run short, and dodge and thread the
hedge-rows, they hunted him yard by yard till he again made an effort for his life, and took
over Mossingburn Moor, pointing for Penrose Tower on the hill. Here Frosty's horse, Little
Jumper, declined, and we left him standing in the middle of the moor with a stiff neck, kicking
and staring and looking mournfully at his flanks. Daddy Longlegs, too, had begun to sob, and
in vain I looked back in hopes of seeing Jack-a-Dandy coming up. "Well," said I to myself,
"I've got a pair of good strong boots on, and I'll finish the run on foot but I'll see it";
when, just at the moment, the pack broke from scent to view and rolled the fox up like a hedgehog
amongst them.'

'Well done!' exclaimed Jack, adding, 'that was a run with a vengeance!' 'Wasn't it?' replied
his lordship, rubbing his hands and stamping; 'the finest run that ever was seen--the finest
run that ever was seen!'

'Why, it couldn't be less than twelve miles from point to point,' observed Jack, thinking it over.

'Not a yard,' replied his lordship, 'not a yard, and from fourteen to fifteen as the hounds ran.'

'It would be all that,' assented Jack. 'How long were you in doing it?' he asked.

'An hour and forty minutes,' replied his lordship; 'an hour and forty minutes from the find
to the finish'; adding, 'I'll stick the brush and present it to Mrs. Springwheat.'

'It's to be hoped Springy's out of the brook,' observed Jack.

'To be hoped so,' replied his lordship, thinking, if he wasn't whether he should marry Mrs.
Springwheat or not.

Well now, after all that, we fancy we hear our fair friends exclaim, 'Thank goodness, there's
an end of Lord Scamperdale and his hunting; he has had a good run, and will rest quiet for
a time; we shall now hear something of Amelia and Emily, and the doings at Jawleyford Court.'
Mistaken lady! If you are lucky enough to marry an out-and-out fox-hunter, you will find that
a good run is only adding fuel to the fire, only making him anxious for more. Lord Scamperdale's
sporting fire was in full blaze. His bumps and his thumps, his rolls, and his scrambles, only
brought out the beauties and perfections of the thing. He cared nothing for his hat-crown,
no; nor for his coat-lap either. Nay, he wouldn't have cared if it had been made into a spencer.

'What's to-day? Monday,' said his lordship, answering himself. 'Monday,' he repeated; 'Monday--bubble-and-squeak,
I guess--sooner it's ready the better, for I'm half-famished--didn't do half-justice to that
nice breakfast at Springy's. That nasty brown-booted buffer completely threw me off my feed.
By the way, what became of the chestnut-booted animal?'

'Went home,' replied Jack; 'fittest place for him.'

'Hope he'll stay there,' rejoined his lordship. 'No fear of his being at the roads to-morrow,
is there?' 'None,' replied Jack. 'I told him it was quite an impossible distance from him,
twenty miles at least.'

'That's grand!' exclaimed his lordship; 'that's grand! Then we'll have a rare, ding-dong hey--away
pop. There'll be no end of those nasty, jealous. Puffington dogs out; and if we have half such
a scent as we had to-day, we'll sew some of them up, we'll show 'em what hunting is. Now,'
he added, 'if you'll go and get the bottle of port, I'll clean myself, and then we'll have
dinner as quick as we can.'

CHAPTER XXVIII

THE FAITHFUL GROOM

We left our friend Mr. Sponge wending his way home moodily, after having lost his day at Larkhall
Hill. Some of our readers will, perhaps, say, why didn't he clap on, and try to catch up the
hounds at a check, or at all events rejoin them for an afternoon fox? Gentle reader! Mr. Sponge
did not hunt on those terms; he was a front-rank or a 'nowhere' man, and independently of catching
hounds up being always a fatiguing and hazardous speculation, especially on a fine-scenting
day, the exertion would have taken more out of his horse than would have been desirable for
successful display in a second run. Mr. Sponge, therefore, determined to go home.

As he sauntered along, musing on the mishaps of the chase, wondering how Miss Jawleyford would
look, and playing himself an occasional tune with his spur against his stirrup, who should
come trotting behind him but Mr. Leather on the redoubtable chestnut? Mr. Sponge beckoned him
alongside. The horse looked blooming and bright; his eye was clear and cheerful, and there
was a sort of springy graceful action that looked like easy going.

One always fancies a horse most with another man on him. We see all his good points without
feeling his imperfections--his trippings, or startings, or snatchings, or borings, or roughness
of action, and Mr. Sponge proceeded to make a silent estimate of Multum in Parvo's qualities
as he trotted gently along on the grassy side of the somewhat wide road.

'By Jove! it's a pity but his lordship had seen him,' thought Sponge, as the emulation of companionship
made the horse gradually increase his pace, and steal forward with the lightest, freest action
imaginable.' If he was but all right,' continued Sponge, with a shake of the head, 'he would
be worth any money, for he has the strength of a dray-horse, with the symmetry and action of
a racer.'

Then Sponge thought he shouldn't have an opportunity of showing the horse till Thursday, for
Jack had satisfied him that the next day's meet was quite beyond distance from Jawleyford Court.

'It's a bore,' said he, rising in his stirrups, and tickling the piebald with his spurs, as
if he were going to set-to for a race. He thought of having a trial of speed with the chestnut,
up a slip of turf they were now approaching; but a sudden thought struck him, and he desisted.
'These horses have done nothing to-day,' he said; 'why shouldn't I send the chestnut on for
to-morrow?'

'Do you know where the cross-roads are?' he asked his groom.

'Cross-roads, cross-roads--what cross-roads?' replied Leather.

'Where the hounds meet to-morrow.'

'Oh, the cross-roads at Somethin' Burn,' rejoined Leather thoughtfully--'no, 'deed, I don't,'
he added. 'From all 'counts, they seem to be somewhere on the far side of the world.'

That was not a very encouraging answer; and feeling it would require a good deal of persuasion
to induce Mr. Leather to go in search of them without clothing and the necessary requirements
for his horses, Mr. Sponge went trotting on, in hopes of seeing some place where he might get
a sight of the map of the county. So they proceeded in silence, till a sudden turn of the road
brought them to the spire and housetops of the little agricultural town of Barleyboll. It differed
nothing from the ordinary run of small towns. It had a pond at one end, an inn in the middle,
a church at one side, a fashionable milliner from London, a merchant tailor from the same place,
and a hardware shop or two where they also sold treacle, Dartford gunpowder, pocket-handkerchiefs,
sheep-nets, patent medicines, cheese, blacking, marbles, mole-traps, men's hats, and other
miscellaneous articles. It was quite enough of a town, however, to raise a presumption that
there would be a map of the county at the inn.

'We'll just put the horses up for a few minutes, I think,' said Sponge, turning into the stable-yard
at the end of the Red Lion Hotel and Posting House, adding, 'I want to write a letter, and
perhaps,' said he, looking at his watch, 'you may be wanting your dinner.'

Having resigned his horse to his servant, Mr. Sponge walked in, receiving the marked attention
usually paid to a red coat. Mine host left his bar, where he was engaged in the usual occupation
of drinking with customers for the 'good of the house.' A map of the county, of such liberal
dimensions, was speedily produced, as would have terrified any one unaccustomed to distances
and scales on which maps are laid down. For instance, Jawleyford Court, as the crow flies,
was the same distance from the cross-roads at Dallington Burn as York was from London, in a
map of England hanging beside it.

'It's a goodish way,' said Sponge, getting a lighter off the chimney-piece, and measuring the
distances. 'From Jawleyford Court to Billingsborough Rise, say seven miles; from Billingsborough
Rise to Downington Wharf, other seven; from Downington Wharf to Shapcot, which seems the nearest
point, will be--say five or six, perhaps--nineteen or twenty in all. Well, that's my work,'
he observed, scratching his head, 'at least, my hack's; and from here, home,' he continued,
measuring away as he spoke, 'will be twelve or thirteen. Well, that's nothing,' he said. 'Now
for the horse,' he continued, again applying the lighter in a different direction. 'From here
to Hardington will be, say, eight miles; from Hardington to Bewley, other five; eight and five
are thirteen; and there, I should say, he might sleep. That would leave ten or twelve miles
for the morning; nothing for a hack hunter; 'specially such a horse as that, and one that's
done nothing for I don't know how long.'

Altogether, Mr. Sponge determined to try it, especially considering that if he didn't get Tuesday,
there would be nothing till Thursday; and he was not the man to keep a hack hunter standing idle.

Accordingly he sought Mr. Leather, whom he found busily engaged in the servants' apartment,
with a cold round of beef and a foaming flagon of ale before him.

'Leather,' he said, in a tone of authority, 'I'll hunt to-morrow--ride the horse I should have
ridden to-day.'

'Where at?' asked Leather, diving his fork into a bottle of pickles, and fishing out an onion.

'The cross-roads,' replied Sponge.

'The cross-roads be fifty miles from here!' cried Leather.

'Nonsense!' rejoined Sponge; 'I've just measured the distance. It's nothing of the sort.'

'How far do you make it, then?' asked Leather, tucking in the beef.

'Why, from here to Hardington is about six, and from Hardington to Bewley, four--ten in all,'
replied Sponge. 'You can stay at Bewley all night, and then it is but a few miles on in the
morning.'

'And whativer am I to do for clothin'?' asked Leather, adding, 'I've nothin' with me--nothin'
nouther for oss nor man.'

'Oh, the ostler'll lend you what you want,' replied Sponge, in a tone of determination, adding,
'you can make shift for one night surely?'

'One night surely!' retorted Leather. 'D'ye think an oss can't be ruined in one night?--humph!'

'I'll risk it,' said Sponge.

'But I won't,' replied Leather, blowing the foam from the tankard, and taking a long swig at
the ale. 'I thinks I knows my duty to my gov'nor better nor that,' continued he, setting it
down. 'I'll not see his waluable 'unters stowed away in pigsties--not I, indeed.'

The fact was. Leather had an invitation to sup with the servants at Jawleyford Court that night,
and he was not going to be done out of his engagement, especially as Mr. Sponge only allowed
him two shillings a day for expenses wherever he was.

'Well, you're a cool hand, anyhow,' observed Mr. Sponge, quite taken by surprise.

'Cool 'and, or not cool 'and,' replied Leather, munching away, 'I'll do my duty to my master.
I'm not one o' your coatless, characterless scamps wot 'ang about livery-stables ready to do
anything they're bid. No sir, no,' he continued, pronging another onion; 'I have some regard
for the hinterest o' my master. I'll do my duty in the station o' life in which I'm placed,
and won't be 'fraid to face no man.' So saying, Mr. Leather cut himself a grand circumference
of beef.

Mr. Sponge was taken aback, for he had never seen a conscientious livery-stable helper before,
and did not believe in the existence of such articles. However, here was Mr. Leather assuming
a virtue, whether he had it or not; and Mr. Sponge being in the man's power, of course durst
not quarrel with him. It was clear that Leather would not go; and the question was, what should
Mr. Sponge do? 'Why shouldn't I go myself?' he thought, shutting his eyes, as if to keep his
faculties free from outward distraction. He ran the thing quickly over in his mind. 'What Leather
can do, I can do,' he said, remembering that a groom never demeaned himself by working where
there was an ostler. 'These things I have on will do quite well for to-morrow, at least among
such rough-and-ready dogs as the Flat Hat men, who seem as if they had their clothes pitched
on with a fork.'

His mind was quickly made up, and calling for pen, ink, and paper, he wrote a hasty note to
Jawleyford, explaining why he would not cast up till the morrow; he then got the chestnut out
of the stable, and desiring the ostler to give the note to Leather, and tell him to go home
with his hack, he just rode out of the yard without giving Leather the chance of saying 'nay.'
He then jogged on at a pace suitable to the accurate measurement of the distance.

The horse seemed to like having Sponge's red coat on better than Leather's brown, and champed
his bit, and stepped away quite gaily.

'Confound it!' exclaimed Sponge, laying the rein on its neck, and leaning forward to pat him;
'it's a pity but you were always in this humour--you'd be worth a mint of money if you were.'
He then resumed his seat in the saddle, and bethought him how he would show them the way on
the morrow. 'If he doesn't beat every horse in the field, it shan't be my fault,' thought he;
and thereupon he gave him the slightest possible touch with the spur, and the horse shot away
up a strip of grass like an arrow.

'By Jove, but you can go!' said he, pulling up as the grass ran out upon the hard road.

Thus he reached the village of Hardington, which he quickly cleared, and took the well-defined
road to Bewley--a road adorned with milestones and set out with a liberal horse-track at either
side.

Day had closed ere our friend reached Bewley, but the children returning from school, and the
country folks leaving their work, kept assuring him that he was on the right line, till the
lights of the town, bursting upon him as he rounded the hill above, showed him the end of his
journey.

The best stalls at the head inn--the Bull's Head--were all full, several trusty grooms having
arrived with the usual head-stalls and rolls of clothing on their horses, denoting the object
of their mission. Most of the horses had been in some hours, and were now standing well littered
up with straw, while the grooms were in the tap talking over their masters, discussing the
merits of their horses, or arguing whether Lord Scamperdale was mad or not. They had just come
to the conclusion that his lordship was mad, but not incapable of taking care of his affairs,
when the trampling of Sponge's horse's feet drew them out to see who was coming next. Sponge's
red coat at once told his tale, and procured him the usual attention.

Mr. Leather's fear of the want of clothing for the valuable hunter proved wholly groundless,
for each groom having come with a plentiful supply for his own horse, all the inn stock was
at the service of the stranger. The stable, to be sure, was not quite so good as might be desired,
but it was warm and water-tight, and the corn was far from bad. Altogether, Mr. Sponge thought
he would do very well, and, having seen to his horse, proceeded to choose between beef-steaks
and mutton chops for his own entertainment, and with the aid of the old country paper and some
very questionable port, he passed the evening in anticipation of the sports of the morrow.

CHAPTER XXIX

THE CROSS-ROADS AT DALLINGTON BURN

When his lordship and Jack mounted their hacks in the morning to go to the cross-roads at Dallington
Burn, it was so dark that they could not see whether they were on bays or browns. It was a
dull, murky day, with heavy spongy clouds overhead.

There had been a great deal of rain in the night, and the horses poached and squashed as they
went. Our sportsmen, however, were prepared as well for what had fallen as for what might come;
for they were encased in enormously thick boots, with baggy overalls, and coats and waistcoats
of the stoutest and most abundant order. They had each a sack of a mackintosh strapped on to
their saddle fronts. Thus they went blobbing and groping their way along, varying the monotony
of the journey by an occasional spurt of muddy water up into their faces, or the more nerve-trying
noise of a floundering stumble over a heap of stones by the roadside. The country people stared
with astonishment as they passed, and the muggers and tinkers, who were withdrawing their horses
from the farmers' fields, stood trembling, lest they might be the 'pollis' coming after them.

'I think it'll be a fine day,' observed his lordship, after they had bumped for some time in
silence without its getting much lighter. 'I think it will be a fine day,' he said, taking
his chin out of his great puddingy-spotted neckcloth, and turning his spectacled face up to
the clouds.

'The want of light is its chief fault,' observed Jack, adding, 'it's deuced dark!'

'Ah, it'll get better of that,' observed his lordship. 'It's not much after eight yet,' he
added, staring at his watch, and with difficulty making out that it was half-past. 'Days take
off terribly about this time of year,' he observed; 'I've seen about Christmas when it has
never been rightly light all day long.'

They then floundered on again for some time further as before.

'Shouldn't wonder if we have a large field,' at length observed Jack, bringing his hack alongside
his lordship's.

'Shouldn't wonder if Puff himself was to come--all over brooches and rings as usual,' replied
his lordship.

'And Charley Slapp, I'll be bund to say,' observed Jack. 'He a regular hanger-on of Puff's.'

'Ass, that Slapp,' said his lordship; 'hate the sight of him!'

'So do I,' replied Jack, adding, 'hate a hanger-on!'

'There are the hounds,' said his lordship, as they now approached Culverton Dean, and a line
of something white was discernible travelling the zig-zagging road on the opposite side.

'Are they, think you?' replied Jack, staring through his great spectacles; 'are they, think
you? It looks to me more like a flock of sheep.'

'I believe you're right,' said his lordship, staring too; 'indeed, I hear the dog. The hounds,
however, can't be far ahead.'

They then drew into single file to take the broken horse-track through the steep woody dean.

'This is the longest sixteen miles I know,' observed Jack, as they emerged from it, and overtook
the sheep.

'It is,' replied his lordship, spurring his hack, who was now beginning to lag: 'the fact is,
it's eighteen,' he continued; 'only if I was to tell Frosty it was eighteen, he would want
to lay overnight, and that wouldn't do. Besides the trouble and inconvenience, it would spoil
the best part of a five-pund note; and five-pund notes don't grow upon gooseberry-bushes--at
least, not in my garden.'

'Rather scarce in all gardens just now, I think,' observed Jack; 'at least, I never hear of
anybody with one to spare.'

'Money's like snow,' said his lordship, 'a very meltable article; and talking of snow,' he
said, looking up at the heavy clouds, 'I wish we mayn't be going to have some--I don't like
the look of things overhead.'

'Heavy,' replied Jack; 'heavy: however, it's due about now.'

'Due or not due,' said his lordship, 'it's a thing one never wishes to come; anybody may have
my share of snow that likes--frost too.'

The road, or rather track, now passed over Blobbington Moor, and our friends had enough to
do to keep their horses out of peat-holes and bogs, without indulging in conversation. At length
they cleared the moor, and, pulling out a gap at the corner of the inclosures, cut across a
few fields, and got on to the Stumpington turnpike.

'The hounds are here,' said Jack, after studying the muddy road for some time.

'They'll not be there long,' replied his lordship, 'for Grabtintoll Gate isn't far ahead, and
we don't waste our substance on pikes.'

His lordship was right. The imprints soon diverged up a muddy lane on the right, and our sportsmen
now got into a road so deep and bottomless as to put the idea of stones quite out of the question.

'Hang the road!' exclaimed his lordship, as his hack nearly came on his nose, 'hang the road!'
repeated he, adding, 'if Puff wasn't such an ass, I really think I'd give him up the cross-road
country.'

'It's bad to get at from us,' observed Jack, who didn't like such trashing distances.

'Ah! but it's a rare good country when you get to it,' replied his lordship, shortening his
rein and spurring his steed.

The lane being at length cleared, the road became more practicable, passing over large pastures
where a horseman could choose his own ground, instead of being bound by the narrow limits of
the law. But though the road improved, the day did not; a thick fog coming drifting up from
the south-east in aid of the general obscurity of the scene.

'The day's gettin' wuss,' observed Jack, snuffling and staring about.

'It'll blow over,' replied his lordship, who was not easily disheartened. 'It'll blow over,'
repeated he, adding, 'often rare scents such days as these. But we must put on,' continued
he, looking at his watch, 'for it's half-past, and we are a mile or more off yet.' So saying,
he clapped spurs to his hack and shot away at a canter, followed by Jack at a long-drawn 'hammer
and pincers' trot.

A hunt is something like an Assize circuit, where certain great guns show everywhere, and smaller
men drop in here and there, snatching a day or a brief, as the case may be. Sergeant Bluff
and Sergeant Huff rustle and wrangle in every court, while Mr. Meeke and Mr. Sneeke enjoy their
frights on the forensic arenas of their respective towns, on behalf of simple neighbours, who
look upon them as thorough Solomons. So with hunts. Certain men who seem to have been sent
into the world for the express purpose of hunting, arrive at every meet, far and near, with
a punctuality that is truly surprising, and rarely associated with pleasure.

If you listen to their conversation, it is generally a dissertation on the previous day's sport,
with inquiries as to the nearest way to cover the next. Sometimes it is seasoned with censure
of some other pack they have been seeing. These men are mounted and appointed in a manner that
shows what a perfect profession hunting is with them. Of course, they come cantering to cover,
lest any one should suppose they ride their horses on.

The 'Cross-roads' was like two hunts or two circuits joining, for it generally drew the picked
men from each, to say nothing of outriggers and chance customers. The regular attendants of
either hunt were sufficiently distinguishable as well by the flat hats and baggy garments of
the one, as by the dandified, Jemmy Jessamy air of the other. If a lord had not been at the
head of the Flat Hats, the Puffington men would have considered them insufferable snobs. But
to our day.

As usual, where hounds have to travel a long distance, the field were assembled before they
arrived. Almost all the cantering gentlemen had cast up.

One cross-road meet being so much like another, it will not be worth while describing the one
at Dallington Burn. The reader will have the kindness to imagine a couple of roads crossing
an open common, with an armless sign-post on one side, and a rubble-stone bridge, with several
of the coping-stones lying in the shallow stream below, on the other.

The country round about, if any country could have been seen, would have shown wild, open,
and cheerless. Here a patch of wood, there a patch of heath, but its general aspect bare and
unfruitful. The commanding outline of Beechwood Forest was not visible for the weather. Time
now, let us suppose, half-past ten, with a full muster of horsemen and a fog making unwonted
dulness of the scene--the old sign-pole being the most conspicuous object of the whole.

Hark! what a clamour there is about it. It's like a betting-post at Newmarket. How loud the
people talk! What's the news? Queen Anne dead, or is there another French Revolution, or a
fixed duty on corn? Reader, Mr. Puffington's hounds have had a run, and the Flat Hat men are
disputing it.

'Nothing of the sort! nothing of the sort!' exclaims Fossick, 'I know every yard of the country,
and you can't make more nor eight of it anyhow, if eight.'

'Well, but I've measured it on the map,' replied the speaker (Charley Slapp himself), 'and
it's thirteen, if it's a yard.'

'Then the country's grown bigger since my day,' rejoins Fossick, 'for I was dropped at Stubgrove,
which is within a mile of where you found, and I've walked, and I've ridden, and I've driven
every yard of the distance, and you can't make it more than eight, if it's as much. Can you,
Capon?' exclaimed Fossick, appealing to another of the 'flat brims,' whose luminous face now
shone through the fog.

'No,' replied Capon, adding, 'not so much, I should say.'

Just then up trotted Frostyface with the hounds.

'Good morning, Frosty! good morning!' exclaim half-a-dozen voices, that it would be difficult
to appropriate from the denseness of the fog. Frosty and the whips make a general salute with
their caps.

'Well, Frosty, I suppose you've heard what a run we had yesterday?' exclaims Charley Slapp,
as soon as Frosty and the hounds are settled.

'Had they, sir--had they?' replies Frosty, with a slight touch of his cap and a sneer. 'Glad
to hear it, sir--glad to hear it. Hope they killed, sir--hope they killed!' with a still slighter
touch of the cap.

'Killed, aye!--killed in the open just below Crabstone Green, in your country,' adding, 'It
was one of your foxes, I believe.'

'Glad of it, sir--glad of it, sir,' replies Frosty. 'They wanted blood sadly--they wanted blood
sadly. Quite welcome to one of our foxes, sir--quite welcome. That's a brace and a 'alf they've
killed.'

'Brace and a ha-r-r-f!' drawls Slapp, in well-feigned disgust; 'brace and a ha-r-r-f!--why,
it makes them ten brace, and six run to ground.'

'Oh, don't tell me,' retorts Frosty, with a shake of disgust; 'don't tell me. I knows better--I
knows better. They'd only killed a brace since they began hunting up to yesterday. The rest
were all cubs, poor things!--all cubs, poor things! Mr. Puffington's hounds are not the sort
of animals to kill foxes: nasty, skirtin', flashy, jealous divils; always starin' about for
holloas and assistance. I'll be d----d if I'd give eighteenpence for the 'ole lot on 'em.'

A loud guffaw from the Flat Hat men greeted this wholesale condemnation. The Puffington men
looked unutterable things, and there is no saying what disagreeable comparisons might have
been instituted (for the Puffingtonians mustered strong) had not his lordship and Jack cast
up at the moment. Hats off and politeness was then the order of the day.

'Mornin',' said his lordship, with a snatch of his hat in return, as he pulled up and stared
into the cloud-enveloped crowd; 'Mornin', Fyle; mornin', Fossick,' he continued, as he distinguished
those worthies, as much by their hats as anything else. 'Where are the horses?' he said to
Frostyface.

'Just beyond there, my lord,' replied the huntsman, pointing with his whip to where a cockaded
servant was 'to-and-froing' a couple of hunters--a brown and a chestnut.

'Let's be doing,' said his lordship, trotting up to them and throwing himself off his hack
like a sack. Having divested himself of his muddy overalls, he mounted the brown, a splendid
sixteen-hands horse in tip-top condition, and again made for the field in all the pride of
masterly equestrianism. A momentary gleam of sunshine shot o'er the scene; a jerk of the head
acted as a signal to throw off, and away they all moved from the meet.

Thorneybush Gorse was a large eight-acre cover, formed partly of gorse and partly of stunted
blackthorn, with here and there a sprinkling of Scotch firs. His lordship paid two pounds a
year for it, having vainly tried to get it for thirty shillings, which was about the actual
value of the land, but the proprietor claimed a little compensation for the trampling of horses
about it; moreover, the Puffington men would have taken it at two pounds. It was a sure find,
and the hounds dashed into it with a scent.

The field ranged themselves at the accustomed corner, both hunts full of their previous day's
run. Frostyface's 'Yoicks, wind him!' 'Yoicks, push him up!' was drowned in a medley of voices.

A loud, clear, shrill 'TALLY-HO, AWAY!' from the far side of the cover caused all tongues to
stop, and all hands to drop on the reins. Great was the excitement! Each hunt was determined
to take the shine out of the other.

'Twang, twang, twang!' 'Tweet, tweet, tweet!' went his lordship's and Frostyface's horns, as
they came bounding over the gorse to the spot, with the eager pack rushing at their horses'
heels. Then as the hounds crossed the line of scent, there was such an outburst of melody in
cover, and such gathering of reins and thrusting on of hats outside! The hounds dashed out
of cover as if somebody was kicking them. A man in scarlet was seen flying through the fog,
producing the usual hold-hardings. 'Hold hard, sir!' 'God bless you, hold hard, sir!' with
inquiries as to 'who the chap was that was going to catch the fox.'

'It's Lumpleg!' exclaimed one of the Flat Hat men.

'No, it's not!' roared a Puffingtonite; 'Lumpleg's here.'

'Then it's Charley Slapp; he's always doing it,' rejoined the first speaker. 'Most jealous
man in the world.'

'Is he!' exclaimed Slapp, cantering past at his ease on a thoroughbred grey, as if he could
well afford to dispense with a start.

Reader! it was neither Lumpleg nor Slapp, nor any of the Puffington snobs, or Flat Hat swells,
or Puffington swells, or Flat Hat snobs. It was our old friend Sponge; Monsieur Tonson again!
Having arrived late, he had posted himself, unseen, by the cover side, and the fox had broke
close to him. Unfortunately, he had headed him back, and a pretty kettle of fish was the result.
Not only had he headed him back, but the resolute chestnut, having taken it into his head to
run away, had snatched the bit between his teeth; and carried him to the far side of a field
ere Sponge managed to manoere him round on a very liberal semi-circle, and face the now flying
sportsmen, who came hurrying on through the mist like a charge of yeomanry after a salute.
All was excitement, hurry-scurry, and horse-hugging, with the usual spurring, elbowing, and
exertion to get into places, Mr. Fossick considering he had as much right to be before Mr.
Fyle as Mr. Fyle had to be before old Capon.

It apparently being all the same to the chestnut which way he went so long as he had his run,
he now bore Sponge back as quickly as he had carried him away, and with yawning mouth, and
head in the air, he dashed right at the coming horsemen, charging Lord Scamperdale full tilt
as he was in the act of returning his horn to its case. Great was the collision! His lordship
flew one way, his horse another, his hat a third, his whip a fourth, his spectacles a fifth;
in fact, he was scattered all over. In an instant he lay the centre of a circle, kicking on
his back like a lively turtle.

'Oh! I'm kilt!' he roared, striking out as if he was swimming, or rather floating. 'I'm kilt!'
he repeated. 'He's broken my back--he's broken my legs--he's broken my ribs--he's broken my
collar-bone--he's knocked my right eye into the heel of my left boot. Oh! will nobody catch
him and kill him? Will nobody do for him? Will you see an English nobleman knocked about like
a ninepin?' added his lordship, scrambling up to go in pursuit of Mr. Sponge himself, exclaiming,
as he stood shaking his fist at him, 'Rot ye, sir! hangin's too good for ye! you should be
condemned to hunt in Berwickshire the rest of your life!'

CHAPTER XXX

BOLTING THE BADGER

When a man and his horse differ seriously in public, and the man feels the horse has the best
of it, it is wise for the man to appear to accommodate his views to those of the horse, rather
than risk a defeat. It is best to let the horse go his way, and pretend it is yours. There
is no secret so close as that between a rider and his horse.

Mr. Sponge, having scattered Lord Scamperdale in the summary way described in our last chapter,
let the chestnut gallop away, consoling himself with the idea that even if the hounds did hunt,
it would be impossible for him to show his horse to advantage on so dark and unfavourable a
day. He, therefore, just let the beast gallop till he began to flag, and then he spurred him
and made him gallop on his account. He thus took his change out of him, and arrived at Jawleyford
Court a little after luncheon time.

Brief as had been his absence, things had undergone a great change. Certain dark hints respecting
his ways and means had worked their way from the servants' hall to my lady's chamber, and into
the upper regions generally. These had been augmented by Leather's, the trusty groom's, overnight
visit, in fulfilment of his engagement to sup with the servants. Nor was Mr. Leather's anger
abated by the unceremonious way Mr. Sponge rode off with the horse, leaving him to hear of
his departure from the ostler. Having broken faith with him, he considered it his duty to be
'upsides' with him, and tell the servants all he knew about him. Accordingly he let out, in
strict confidence of course, to Spigot, that so far from Mr. Sponge being a gentleman of 'fortin,'
as he called it, with a dozen or two hunters planted here and there, he was nothing but the
hirer of a couple of hacks, with himself as a job-groom, by the week. Spigot, who was on the
best of terms with the 'cook-housekeeper,' and had his clothes washed on the sly in the laundry,
could not do less than communicate the intelligence to her, from whom it went to the lady's-maid,
and thence circulated in the upper regions.

Juliana, the maid, finding Miss Amelia less indisposed to hear Mr. Sponge run down than she
expected, proceeded to add her own observations to the information derived from Leather, the
groom. 'Indeed, she couldn't say that she thought much of Mr. Sponge herself; his shirts were
coarse, so were his pocket-handkerchiefs; and she never yet saw a real gent without a valet.'

Amelia, without any positive intention of giving up Mr. Sponge, at least not until she saw
further, had nevertheless got an idea that she was destined for a much higher sphere. Having
duly considered all the circumstances of Mr. Spraggon's visit to Jawleyford Court, conned over
several mysterious coughs and half-finished sentences he had indulged in, she had about come
to the conclusion that the real object of his mission was to negotiate a matrimonial alliance
on behalf of Lord Scamperdale. His lordship's constantly expressed intention of getting married
was well calculated to mislead one whose experience of the world was not sufficiently great
to know that those men who are always talking about it are the least likely to get married,
just as men who are always talking about buying horses are the men who never do buy them. Be
that, however, as it may, Amelia was tolerably easy about Mr. Sponge. If he had money she could
take him; if he hadn't, she could let him alone.

Jawleyford, too, who was more hospitable at a distance, and in imagination than in reality,
had had about enough of our friend. Indeed, a man whose talk was of hunting, and his reading
Mogg was not likely to have much in common with a gentleman of taste and elegance, as our friend
set up to be. The delicate inquiry that Mrs. Jawleyford now made, as to 'whether he knew Mr.
Sponge to be a man of fortune,' set him off at a tangent.

'ME know he's a man of fortune! I know nothing of his fortune. You asked him here, not ME,'
exclaimed Jawleyford, stamping furiously.

'No, my dear,' replied Mrs. Jawleyford mildly; 'he asked himself, you know; but I thought,
perhaps, you might have said something that--'

'ME say anything!' interrupted Jawleyford. 'I never said anything--at least, nothing that any
man with a particle of sense would think anything of,' continued he, remembering the scene
in the billiard-room. 'It's one thing to tell a man, if he comes your way, you'll be glad to
see him, and another to ask him to come bag and baggage, as this impudent Mr. Sponge has done,'
added he.

'Certainly,' replied Mrs. Jawleyford, who saw where the shoe was pinching her bear.

'I wish he was off,' observed Jawleyford, after a pause. 'He bothers me excessively--I'll try
and get rid of him by saying we are going from home.'

'Where can you say we are going to?' asked Mrs. Jawleyford.

'Oh, anywhere,' replied Jawleyford; 'he doesn't know the people about here: the Tewkesbury's,
the Woolerton's, the Brown's--anybody.'

Before they had got any definite plan of proceeding arranged, Mr. Sponge returned from the
chase. 'Ah, my dear sir!' exclaimed Jawleyford, half-gaily, half-moodily, extending a couple
of fingers as Sponge entered his study: 'we thought you had taken French leave of us, and were
off.'

Mr. Sponge asked if his groom had not delivered his note.

'No,' replied Jawleyford boldly, though he had it in his pocket; 'at least, not that I've seen.
Mrs. Jawleyford, perhaps, may have got it,' added he.

'Indeed!' exclaimed Sponge; 'it was very idle of him.' He then proceeded to detail to Jawleyford
what the reader already knows, how he had lost his day at Larkhall Hill, and had tried to make
up for it by going to the cross-roads. 'Ah!' exclaimed Jawleyford, when he was done; 'that's
a pity--great pity--monstrous pity--never knew anything so unlucky in my life.'

'Misfortunes will happen,' replied Sponge, in a tone of unconcern.

'Ah, it wasn't so much the loss of the hunt I was thinking of,' replied Jawleyford, 'as the
arrangements we have made in consequence of thinking you were gone.'

'What are they?' asked Sponge.

'Why, my Lord Barker, a great friend of ours--known him from a boy--just like brothers, in
short--sent over this morning to ask us all there--shooting party, charades, that sort of thing--and
we accepted.'

'But that need make no difference,' replied Sponge; 'I'll go too.'

Jawleyford was taken aback. He had not calculated upon so much coolness.

'Well,' stammered he, 'that might do, to be sure; but--if--I'm not quite sure that I could
take any one--'

'But if you're as thick as you say, you can have no difficulty,' replied our friend.

'True,' replied Jawleyford; 'but then we go a large party ourselves--two and two's four,' said
he, 'to say nothing of servants; besides, his lordship mayn't have room--house will most likely
be full.'

'Oh, a single man can always be put up; shake-down--anything does for him,' replied Sponge.
'But you would lose your hunting,' replied Jawleyford. 'Barkington Tower is quite out of Lord
Scamperdale's country.'

'That doesn't matter,' replied Sponge, adding, 'I don't think I'll trouble his lordship much
more. These Flat Hat gentlemen are not over and above civil, in my opinion.'

'Well,' replied Jawleyford, nettled at this thwarting of his attempt, 'that's for your consideration.
However, as you've come, I'll talk to Mrs. Jawleyford, and see if we can get off the Barkington
expedition.'

'But don't get off on my account,' replied Sponge. 'I can stay here quite well. I dare say
you'll not be away long.'

This was worse still; it held out no hope of getting rid of him. Jawleyford therefore resolved
to try and smoke and starve him out. When our friend went to dress, he found his old apartment,
the state-room, put away, the heavy brocade curtains brown-hollanded, the jugs turned upside
down, the bed stripped of its clothes and the looking-glass laid a-top of it.

The smirking housemaid, who was just rolling the fire-irons up in the hearth-rug, greeted him
with a 'Please, sir, we've shifted you into the brown room, east,' leading the way to the condemned
cell that 'Jack' had occupied, where a newly lit fire was puffing out dense clouds of brown
smoke, obscuring even the gilt letters on the back of Mogg's Cab Fares, as the little volume
lay on the toilet-table.

'What's happened now?' asked our friend of the maid, putting his arm round her waist, and giving
her a hearty squeeze. 'What's happened now, that you've put me into this dog-hole?' asked he.

'Oh! I don't know,' replied she, laughing; 'I s'pose they're afraid you'll bring the old rotten
curtains down in the other room with smokin'. Master's a sad old wife,' added she.

A great change had come over everything. The fare, the lights, the footmen, the everything,
underwent grievous diminution. The lamps were extinguished, and the transparent wax gave way
to Palmer's composites, under the mild influence of whose unsearching light the young ladies
sported their dashed dresses with impunity. Competition between them, indeed, was about an
end. Amelia claimed Mr. Sponge, should he be worth having, and should the Scamperdale scheme
fail; while Emily, having her mamma's assurance that he would not do for either of them, resigned
herself complacently to what she could not help.

Mr. Sponge, on his part, saw that all things portended a close. He cared nothing about the
old willow-pattern set usurping the place of the Jawleyford-armed china; but the contents of
the dishes were bad, and the wine, if possible, worse. Most palpable Marsala did duty for sherry,
and the corked port was again in requisition. Jawleyford was no longer the brisk, cheery-hearted
Jawleyford of Laverick Wells, but a crusty, fidgety, fire-stirring sort of fellow, desperately
given to his Morning Post.

Worst of all, when Mr. Sponge retired to his den to smoke a cigar and study his dear cab fares,
he was so suffocated with smoke that he was obliged to put out the fire, notwithstanding the
weather was cold, indeed inclining to frost. He lit his cigar notwithstanding; and, as he indulged
in it, he ran all the circumstances of his situation through his mind. His pressing invitation--his
magnificent reception--the attention of the ladies--and now the sudden change everything had
taken. He couldn't make it out, somehow; but the consequences were plain enough. 'The fellow's
a humbug,' at length said he, throwing the cigar-end away, and turning into bed, when the information
Watson the keeper gave him on arriving recurred to his mind, and he was satisfied that Jawleyford
was a humbug. It was clear Mr. Sponge had made a mistake in coming; the best thing he could
do now was to back out, and see if the fair Amelia would take it to heart. In the midst of
his cogitations Mr. Puffington's pressing invitation occurred to his mind, and it appeared
to be the very thing for him, affording him an immediate asylum within reach of the fair lady,
should she be likely to die.

Next day he wrote to volunteer a visit.

Mr. Puffington, who was still in ignorance of our friend's real character, and still believed
him to be a second 'Nimrod' out on a 'tour,' was overjoyed at his letter; and, strange to relate,
the same post that brought his answer jumping at the proposal, brought a letter from Lord Scamperdale
to Jawleyford, saying that, 'as soon as Jawleyford was quite alone (scored under) he would
like to pay him a visit.' His lordship, we should inform the reader, notwithstanding his recent
mishap, still held out against Jack Spraggon's recommendation to get rid of Mr. Sponge by buying
his horses, and he determined to try this experiment first. His lordship thought at one time
of entering into an explanation, telling Mr. Jawleyford the damage Sponge had done him, and
the nuisance he was entailing upon him by harbouring him; but not being a great scholar, and
several hard words turning up that his lordship could not well clear in the spelling, he just
confined himself to a laconic, which, as it turned out, was a most fortunate course. Indeed,
he had another difficulty besides the spelling, for the hounds having as usual had a great
run after Mr. Sponge had floored him--knocked his right eye into the heel of his left boot,
as he said--in the course of which run his lordship's horse had rolled over him on a road,
he was like the railway people--unable to distinguish between capital and income--unable to
say which were Sponge's bangs and which his own; so, like a hard cricket-ball sort of a man
as he was, he just pocketed all, and wrote as we have described.

His lordship's and Mr. Puffington's letters diffused joy into a house that seemed likely to
be distracted with trouble.

So then endeth our thirtieth chapter, and a very pleasant ending it is, for we leave everyone
in perfect good humour and spirits, Sponge pleased at having got a fresh billet, Jawleyford
delighted at the coming of the lord, and each fair lady practising in private how to sign her
Christian name in conjunction with 'Scamperdale.'

CHAPTER XXXI

MR. PUFFINGTON; OR THE YOUNG MAN ABOUT TOWN

Mr. Puffington took the Mangeysterne, now the Hanby hounds, because he thought they would give
him consequence. Not that he was particularly deficient in that article; but being a new man
in the county, he thought that taking them would make him popular, and give him standing. He
had no natural inclination for hunting, but seeing friends who had no taste for the turf take
upon themselves the responsibility of stewardships, he saw no reason why he should not make
a similar sacrifice at the shrine of Diana. Indeed, Puff was not bred for a sportsman. His
father, a most estimable man, and one with whom we have spent many a convivial evening, was
a great starch-maker at Stepney; and his mother was the daughter of an eminent Worcestershire
stone-china maker. Save such ludicrous hunts as they might have seen on their brown jugs, we
do not believe either of them had any acquaintance whatever with the chase. Old Puffington
was, however, what a wise heir esteems a great deal more--an excellent man of business, and
amassed mountains of money. To see his establishment at Stepney, one would think the whole
world was going to be starched. Enormous dock-tailed dray-horses emerged with ponderous waggons
heaped up to the very skies, while others would come rumbling in, laden with wheat, potatoes,
and other starch-making ingredients. Puffington's blue roans were well known about town, and
were considered the handsomest horses of the day; quite equal to Barclay and Perkin's piebalds.

Old Puffington was not like a sportsman. He was a little, soft, rosy, roundabout man, with
stiff resolute legs that did not look as if they could be bent to a saddle. He was great, however,
in a gig, and slouched like a sack.

Mrs. Puffington, née Smith, was a tall handsome woman, who thought a good deal of herself.
When she and her spouse married, they lived close to the manufactory, in a sweet little villa
replete with every elegance and convenience--a pond, which they called a lake--laburnums without
end; a yew, clipped into a dock-tailed waggon-horse; standing for three horses and gigs, with
an acre and half of land for a cow.

Old Puffington, however, being unable to keep those dearest documents of the British merchant,
his balance-sheets, to himself, and Mrs. Puffington finding a considerable sum going to the
'good' every year, insisted, on the birth of their only child, our friend, upon migrating to
the 'west,' as she called it, and at one bold stroke they established themselves in Heathcote
Street, Mecklenburgh Square. Novelists had not then written this part down as 'Mesopotamia,'
and it was quite as genteel as Harley or Wimpole Street are now. Their chief object then was
to increase their wealth and make their only son 'a gentleman.' They sent him to Eton, and
in due time to Christ Church, where, of course, he established a red coat to persecute Sir
Thomas Mostyn's and the Duke of Beaufort's hounds, much to the annoyance of their respective
huntsmen, Stephen Goodall and Philip Payne, and the aggravation of poor old Griff. Lloyd.

What between the field and college, young Puffington made the acquaintance of several very
dashing young sparks--Lord Firebrand, Lord Mudlark, Lord Deuceace, Sir Harry Blueun, and others,
whom he always spoke of as 'Deuceace,' 'Blueun,' etc., in the easy style that marks the perfect
gentleman.[1] How proud the old people were of him! How they would sit listening to him, flashing,
and telling how Deuceace and he floored a Charley, or Blueun and he pitched a snob out of the
boxes into the pit. This was in the old Tom-and-Jerry days, when fisticuffs were the fashion.
One evening, after he had indulged us with a more than usual dose, and was leaving the room
to dress for an eight o'clock dinner at Long's, 'Buzzer!' exclaimed the old man, clutching
our arm, as the tears started to his eyes, 'Buzzer! that's an amaazin' instance of a pop'lar
man!' And certainly, if a large acquaintance is a criterion of popularity, young Puffington,
as he was then called, had his fair share. He once did us the honour--an honour we shall never
forget--of walking down Bond Street with us, in the spring-tide of fashion, of a glorious summer's
day, when you could not cross Conduit Street under a lapse of a quarter of an hour, and carriages
seemed to have come to an interminable lock at the Piccadilly end of the street. In those days
great people went about like great people, in handsome hammer-clothed, arms-emblazoned coaches,
with plethoric three-corner-hatted coachmen, and gigantic, lace-bedizened, quivering-calved
Johnnies, instead of rumbling along like apothecaries in pill-boxes, with a handle inside to
let themselves out. Young men, too, dressed as if they were dressed--as if they were got up
with some care and attention--instead of wearing the loose, careless, flowing, sack-like garments
they do now.

We remember the day as if it were but yesterday; Puffington overtook us in Oxford Street, where
we were taking our usual sauntering stare into the shop windows, and instead of shirking or
slipping behind our back, he actually ran his arm up to the hilt in ours, and turned us into
the middle of the flags, with an 'Ah, Buzzer, old boy, what are you doing in this debauched
part of the town? Come along with me, and I'll show you Life!'

So saying he linked arms, and pursuing our course at a proper kill-time sort of pace, we were
at length brought up at the end of Vere Street, along which there was a regular rush of carriages,
cutting away as if they were going to a fire instead of to a finery shop.

Many were the smiles, and bows, and nods, and finger kisses, and bright eyes, and sweet glances,
that the fair flyers shot at our friend as they darted past. We were lost in astonishment at
the sight. 'Verily,' said we, 'but the old man was right. This is an amaazin' instance of a
pop'lar man.'

Young Puffington was then in the heyday of youth, about one-and-twenty or so, fair-haired,
fresh-complexioned, slim, and standing, with the aid of high-heeled boots, little under six
feet high. He had taken after his mother, not after old Tom Trodgers, as they called his papa.
At length we crossed over Oxford Street, and taking the shady side of Bond Street, were quickly
among the real swells of the world--men who crawled along as if life was a perfect burden to
them--men with eye-glasses fixed and tasselled canes in their hands, scarcely less ponderous
than those borne by the footmen. Great Heavens! but they were tight, and smart, and shiny;
and Puffington was just as tight, and smart, and shiny as any of them. He was as much in his
element here as he appeared to be out of it in Oxford Street. It might be prejudice, or want
of penetration on our part, but we thought he looked as high-bred as any of them. They all
seemed to know each other, and the nodding, and winking, and jerking, began as soon as we got
across. Puff kindly acted as cicerone, or we should not have been aware of the consequence
we were encountering.

'Well, Jemmy!' exclaimed a debauched-looking youth to our friend, 'how are you?--breakfasted yet?'

'Going to,' replied Puffington, whom they called Jemmy because his name was Tommy.

'That,' said he, in an undertone, 'is a capital fellow--Lord Legbail, eldest son of the Marquis
of Loosefish--will be Lord Loosefish. We were at the Finish together till six this morning--such
fun!--bonneted a Charley, stole his rattle, and broke an early breakfast-man's stall all to
shivers.' Just then up came a broad-brimmed hat, above a confused mass of greatcoats and coloured
shawls.

'Holloa, Jack!' exclaimed Mr. Puffington, laying hold of a mother-of-pearl button nearly as
large as a tart-plate, 'not off yet?'

'Just going,' replied Jack, with a touch of his hat, as he rolled on, adding, 'want aught down
the road?'

'What coachman is that?' asked we.

'Coachman!' replied Puff, with a snort. 'That's Jack Linchpin--Honourable Jack Linchpin--son
of Lord Splinterbars--best gentleman coachman in England.'

So Puffington sauntered along, good morninging 'Sir Harrys' and 'Sir Jameses,' and 'Lord Johns'
and 'Lord Toms,' till, seeing a batch of irreproachable dandies flattening their noses against
the windows of the Sailors' Old Club, in whose eyes, he perhaps thought, our city coat and
country gaiters would not find much favour, he gave us a hasty parting squeeze of the arm and
bolted into Long's just as a mountainous hackney-coach was rumbling between us and them.

But to the old man. Time rolled on, and at length old Puffington paid the debt of nature--the
only debt, by the way, that he was slow in discharging--and our friend found himself in possession,
not only of the starch manufactory, but of a very great accumulation of consols--so great that,
though starch is as inoffensive a thing as a man can well deal in, a thing that never obtrudes
itself, or, indeed appears in a shop unless it is asked for--notwithstanding all this, and
though it was bringing him in lots of money, our friend determined to 'cut the shop' and be
done with trade altogether.

Accordingly, he sold the premises and good-will, with all the stock of potatoes and wheat,
to the foreman, old Soapsuds, at something below what they were really worth, rather than make
any row in the way of advertising; and the name of 'Soapsuds, Brothers & Co.' reigns on the
blue-and-whitey-brown parcel-ends, where formerly that of Puffington stood supreme.

It is a melancholy fact, which those best acquainted with London society can vouch for, that
her 'swells' are a very ephemeral race. Take the last five-and-twenty years--say from the days
of the Golden Ball and Pea-green Hayne down to those of Molly C----l and Mr. D-l-f-ld--and
see what a succession of joyous--no, not joyous, but rattling, careless, dashing, sixty-percenting
youths we have had.

And where are they all now? Some dead, some at Boulogne-sur-Mer, some in Denman Lodge, some
perhaps undergoing the polite attentions of Mr. Commissioner Phillips, or figuring in Mr. Hemp's
periodical publication of gentlemen 'who are wanted.'

In speaking of 'swells,' of course we are not alluding to men with reference to their clothes
alone, but to men whose dashing, and perhaps eccentric, exteriors are but indicative of their
general system of extravagance. The man who rests his claims to distinction solely on his clothes
will very soon find himself in want of society. Many things contribute to thin the ranks of
our swells. Many, as we said before, outrun the constable. Some get fat, some get married,
some get tired, and a few get wiser. There is, however, always a fine pushing crop coming on.
A man like Puffington, who starts a dandy (in contradistinction to a swell), and adheres steadily
to clothes--talking eternally of the cuts of coats or the ties of cravats--up to the sober
age of forty, must be always falling back on the rising generation for society.

Puffington was not what the old ladies call a profligate young man. On the contrary, he was
naturally a nice, steady young man; and only indulged in the vagaries we have described because
they were indulged in by the high-born and gay.

Tom and Jerry had a great deal to answer for in the way of leading soft-headed young men astray;
and old Puffington having had the misfortune to christen our friend 'Thomas,' of course his
companions dubbed him 'Corinthian Tom'; by which name he has been known ever since.

A man of such undoubted wealth could not be otherwise than a great favourite with the fair,
and innumerable were the invitations that poured into his chambers in the Albany--dinner parties,
evening parties, balls, concerts, boxes for the opera; and as each succeeding season drew to
a close, invitations to those last efforts of the desperate, boating and whitebait parties.

Corinthian Tom went to them all--at least, to as many as he could manage--always dressing in
the most exemplary way, as though he had been asked to show his fine clothes instead of to
make love to the ladies. Manifold were the hopes and expectations that he raised. Puff could
not understand that, though it is all very well to be 'an amaazin' instance of a pop'lar man'
with the men, that the same sort of thing does not do with the ladies.

We have heard that there were six mammas, bowling about in their barouches, at the close of
his second season, innuendoing, nodding, and hinting to their friends, 'that, &c.,' when there
wasn't one of their daughters who had penetrated the rhinoceros-like hide of his own conceit.
The consequence was that all these ladies, all their daughters, all the relations and connexions
of this life, thought it incumbent upon them to 'blow' our friend Puff--proclaim how infamously
he had behaved--all because he had danced three supper dances with one girl, brought another
a fine bouquet from Covent Garden, walked a third away from her party at a picnic at Erith,
begged the mamma of a fourth to take her to a Woolwich ball, sent a fifth a ticket for a Toxophilite
meeting, and dangled about the carriage of the sixth at a review at the Scrubbs. Poor Puff
never thought of being more than an amaazin' instance of a pop'lar man!

Not that the ladies' denunciations did the Corinthian any harm at first--old ladies know each
other better than that; and each new mamma had no doubt but Mrs. Depecarde or Mrs. Mainchance,
as the case might be, had been deceiving herself--'was always doing so, indeed; her ugly girls
were not likely to attract any one--certainly not such an elegant man as Corinthian Tom.'

But as season after season passed away, and the Corinthian still played the old game--still
went the old rounds--the dinner and ball invitations gradually dwindled away, till he became
a mere stop-gap at the one, and a landing-place appendage at the other.

CHAPTER XXXII

THE MAN OF P-R-O-R-PERTY

And now behold Mr. Puffington, fat, fair, and rather more than forty--Puffington, no longer
the light limber lad who patronized us in Bond Street, but Puffington a plump, portly sort
of personage, filling his smart clothes uncommonly full. Men no longer hailing him heartily
from bay windows, or greeting him cheerily in short but familiar terms, but bowing ceremoniously
as they passed with their wives, or perhaps turning down streets or into shops to avoid him.
What is the last rose of summer to do under such circumstances? What, indeed, but retire into
the country? A man may shine there long after he is voted a bore in town, provided none of
his old friends are there to proclaim him. Country people are tolerant of twaddle, and slow
of finding things out for themselves. Puff now turned his attention to the country, or rather
to the advertisements of estates for sale, and immortal George Robins soon fitted him with
one of his earthly paradises; a mansion replete with every modern elegance, luxury, and convenience,
situated in the heart of the most lovely scenery in the world, with eight hundred acres of
land of the finest quality, capable of growing forty bushels of wheat after turnips. In addition
to the estate there was a lordship or reputed lordship to shoot over, a river to fish in, a
pack of fox-hounds to hunt with, and the advertisements gave a sly hint as to the possibility
of the property influencing the representation of the neighbouring borough of Swillingford,
if not of returning the member itself.

This was Hanby House, and though the description undoubtedly partook of George's usual high-flown
couleur-de-rose style, the manor being only a manor provided the owner sacrificed his interest
in Swillingford by driving off its poachers, and the river being only a river when the tiny
Swill was swollen into one, still Hanby House was a very nice attractive sort of place, and
seen in the rich foliage of its summer dress, with all its roses and flowering shrubs in full
blow, the description was not so wide of the mark as Robins's descriptions usually were. Puff
bought it, and became what he called 'a man of p-r-o-r-perty.' To be sure, after he got possession
he found that it was only an acre here and there that would grow forty bushels of wheat after
turnips, and that there was a good deal more to do at the house than he expected, the furniture
of the late occupants having hidden many defects, added to which they had walked off with almost
everything they could wrench down, under the name of fixtures; indeed, there was not a peg
to hang up his hat when he entered. This, however, was nothing, and Puff very soon made it
into one of the most perfect bachelor residences that ever was seen. Not but that it was a
family house, with good nurseries and offices of every description; but Puff used to take a
sort of wicked pleasure in telling the ladies who came trooping over with their daughters,
pretending they thought he was from home, and wishing to see the elegant furniture, that there
was nothing in the nurseries, which he was going to convert into billiard and smoking-rooms.
This, and a few similar sallies, earned our friend the reputation of a wit in the country.

There was great rush of gentlemen to call upon him; many of the mammas seemed to think that
first come would be first served, and sent their husbands over before he was fairly squatted.
Various and contradictory were the accounts they brought home. Men are so stupid at seeing
and remembering things. Old Mr. Muddle came back bemused with sherry, declaring that he thought
Mr. Puffington was as old as he was (sixty-two), while Mrs. Mousetrap thought he wasn't more
than thirty at the outside. She described him as 'painfully handsome.' Mr. Slowan couldn't
tell whether the drawing-room furniture was chintz, or damask, or what it was; indeed, he wasn't
sure that he was in the drawing-room at all; while Mr. Gapes insisted that the carpet was a
Turkey carpet, whereas it was a royal cut pile. It might be that the smartness and freshness
of everything confused the bucolic minds, little accustomed to wholesale grandeur.

Mr. Puffington quite eclipsed all the old country families with their 'company rooms' and put-away
furniture. Then, when he began to grind about the country in his lofty mail-phaeton, with a
pair of spanking, high-stepping bays, and a couple of arm-folded, lolling grooms, shedding
his cards in return for their calls, there was such a talk, such a commotion, as had never
been known before. Then, indeed, he was appreciated at his true worth.

'Mr. Puffington was here the other day,' said Mrs. Smirk to Mrs. Smooth, in the well-known
'great-deal-more-meant-than-said' style. 'Oh such a charming man! Such ease! such manners!
such knowledge of high life!' Puff had been at his old tricks. He had resuscitated Lord Legbail,
now Earl of Loosefish; imported Sir Harry Blueun from somewhere near Geneva, whither he had
retired on marrying his mistress; and resuscitated Lord Mudlark, who had broken his neck many
years before from his tandem in Piccadilly. Whatever was said, Puff always had a duplicate
or illustration involving a nobleman. The great names might be rather far-fetched at times,
to be sure, but when people are inclined to be pleased they don't keep putting that and that
together to see how they fit, and whether they come naturally or are lugged in neck and heels.
Puff's talk was very telling.

One great man to a house is the usual country allowance, and many are not very long in letting
out who theirs are; but Puffington seemed to have the whole peerage, baronetage, and knightage
at command. Old Mrs. Slyboots, indeed, thought that he must be connected with the peerage some
way; his mother, perhaps, had been the daughter of a peer, and she gave herself an infinity
of trouble in hunting through the 'matches'--with what success it is not necessary to say.
The old ladies unanimously agreed that he was a most agreeable, interesting young man; and
though the young ones did pretend to run him down among themselves, calling him ugly, and so
on, it was only in the vain hope of dissuading each other from thinking of him.

Mr. Puffington still stuck to the 'amaazin' pop'lar man' character; a character that is not
so convenient to support in the country as it is in town. The borough of Swillingford, as we
have already intimated, was not the best conducted borough in the world; indeed, when we say
that the principal trade of the place was poaching, our country readers will be able to form
a very accurate opinion on that head. When Puff took possession of Hanby there was a fair show
of pheasants about the house, and a good sprinkling of hares and partridges over the estate
and manor generally; but refusing to prosecute the first poachers that were caught, the rest
took the hint, and cleared everything off in a week, dividing the plunder among them. They
also burnt his river and bagged his fine Dorking fowls, and all these feats being accomplished
with impunity, they turned their attention to his fat sheep.

'Poacher' is only a mild term for 'thief.'

Puff was a perfect milch-cow in the way of generosity. He gave to everything and everybody,
and did not seem to be acquainted with any smaller sum than a five-pound note; a five-pound
note to replace Giles Jolter's cart-horse (that used to carry his own game for the poachers
to the poulterers at Plunderstone)--five pounds to buy Dame Doubletongue another pig, though
she had only just given three pounds for the one that died--five pounds towards the fire at
farmer Scratchley's, though it had taken place two years before Puff came into the country,
and Scratchley had been living upon it ever since--and sundry other five pounds to other equally
deserving and amiable people. He put his name down for fifty to the Mangeysterne hounds without
ever being asked; which reminds us that we ought to be directing our attention to that noble
establishment.

It is hard to have to go behind the scenes of an ill-supported hunt, and we will be as brief
and tender with the cripples as we can. The Mangeysterne hounds wanted that great ingredient
of prosperity, a large nest-egg subscriber, to whom all others could be tributary--paying or
not as might be convenient. The consequence was they were always up the spout. They were neither
a scratch pack nor a regular pack, but something betwixt and between. They were hunted by a
saddler, who found his own horses, and sometimes he had a whip and sometimes he hadn't. The
establishment died as often as old Mantalini himself. Every season that came to a close was
proclaimed to be their last, but somehow or other they always managed to scramble into existence
on the approach of another. It is a way, indeed, that delicate packs have of recruiting their
finances. Nevertheless, the Mangeysternes did look very like coming to an end about the time
that Mr. Puffington bought Hanby House. The saddler huntsman had failed; John Doe had taken
one of his screws, and Richard Roe the other, and anybody might have the hounds that liked:
Puffington then turned up.

Great was the joy diffused throughout the Mangeysterne country when it transpired, through
the medium of his valet, Louis Bergamotte, that 'his lor' had beaucoup habit rouge' in his
wardrobe. Not only habit rouge, but habit blue and buff, that he used to sport with 'Old Beaufort'
and the Badminton Hunt--coats that he certainly had no chance of ever getting into again, but
still which he kept as memorials of the past--souvenirs of the days when he was young and slim.
The bottle-conjurer could just as soon have got into his quart bottle as Puff could into the
Beaufort coat at the time of which we are writing. The intelligence of their existence was
quickly followed by the aforesaid fifty-pound cheque. A meeting of the Mangeysterne hunt was
called at the sign of the Thirsty Freeman in Swillingford--Sir Charles Figgs, Knight--a large-promising
but badly paying subscriber--in the chair, when it was proposed and carried unanimously that
Mr. Puffington was eminently qualified for the mastership of the hunt, and that it be offered
to him accordingly. Puff 'bit.' He recalled his early exploits with 'Mostyn and old Beaufort,'
and resolved that the hunt had taken a right view of his abilities. In coming to this decision
he, perhaps, was not altogether uninfluenced by a plausible subscription list, which seemed
about equal to the ordinary expenses, supposing that any reliance could be placed on the figures
and calculations of Sir Charles. All those, however, who have had anything to do with subscription
lists--and in these days of universal testimonializing who has not?--well know that pounds
upon paper and pounds in the pocket are very different things. Above all Puff felt that he
was a new man in the country, and that taking the hounds would give him weight.

The 'Mangeysterne dogs' then began to 'look up'; Mr. Puffington took to them in earnest; bought
a 'Beckford,' and shortened his military stirrups to a hunting seat.

CHAPTER XXXIII

A SWELL HUNTSMAN

One evening the rattle of Puff's pole-chains brought, in addition to the usual rush of shirt-sleeved
helpers, an extremely smart, dapper little man, who might be either a jockey or a gentleman,
or both, or neither. He was a clean-shaved, close-trimmed, spruce little fellow; remarkably
natty about the legs--indeed, all over. His close-napped hat was carefully brushed, and what
little hair appeared below its slightly curved brim was of the pepper-and-salt mixture of--say,
fifty years. His face, though somewhat wrinkled and weather-beaten, was bright and healthy;
and there was a twinkle about his little grey eyes that spoke of quickness and watchful observation.
Altogether, he was a very quick-looking little man--a sort of man that would know what you
were going to say before you had well broke ground. He wore no gills; and his neatly tied starcher
had a white ground with small black spots, about the size of currants. The slight interregnum
between it and his step-collared striped vest (blue stripe on a canary-coloured ground) showed
three golden foxes' heads, acting as studs to his well-washed, neatly plaited shirt; while
a sort of careless turn back of the right cuff showed similar ornaments at his wrists. His
single-breasted, cutaway coat was Oxford mixture, with a thin cord binding, and very natty
light kerseymere mother-o'-pearl buttoned breeches, met a pair of bright, beautifully fitting,
rose-tinted tops, that wrinkled most elegantly down to the Jersey-patterned spur. He was a
remarkably well got up little man, and looked the horseman all over.

As he emerged from the stable, where he had been mastering the ins and outs of the establishment,
learning what was allowed and what was not, what had not been found fault with and, therefore,
might be presumed upon, and so on, he carried the smart dogskin leather glove of one hand in
the other, while the fox's head of a massive silver-mounted jockey-whip peered from under his
arm. On a ring round the fox's neck was the following inscription: 'FROM JACK BRAGG TO HIS
COUSIN DICK.'

Mr. Puffington having drawn up his mail-phaeton, and thrown the ribbons to the active grooms
at the horses' heads in the true coaching style, proceeded to descend from his throne, and
had reached the ground ere he was aware of the presence of a stranger. Seeing him then, he
made the sort of half-obeisance of a man that does not know whether he is addressing a gentleman
or a servant, or, maybe, a scamp, going about with a prospectus. Puff had been bit in the matter
of some maps in London, and was wary, as all people ought to be, of these birds.

The stranger came sidling up with a half-bow, half-touch of the hat, drawling out:

''Sceuuse me, sir--'sceuuse me, sir,' with another half-bow and another half-touch of the hat.
'I'm Mister Bragg, sir--Mister Richard Bragg, sir; of whom you have most likely heard.'

'Bragg--Richard Bragg,' repeated our friend, thoughtfully, while he scanned the man's features,
and ran his sporting acquaintance through his mind's eye.

'Bragg, Bragg,' repeated he, without hitting him off.

'I was huntsman, sir, to my Lord Reynard, sir,' observed the stranger, with a touch of the
hat to each 'sir.' 'Thought p'r'aps you might have known his ludship, sir. Before him, sir,
I held office, sir, under the Duke of Downeybird, sir, of Downeybird Castle, sir, in Downeybirdshire,
sir.'

'Indeed!' replied Mr. Puffington, with a half-bow and a smile of politeness.

'Hearing, sir, you had taken these Mangeysterne dogs, sir,' continued the stranger, with rather
a significant emphasis on the word 'dogs'--'hearing, sir, you had taken these Mangeysterne
dogs, sir, it occurred to me that possibly I might be useful to you, sir, in your new calling,
sir; and if you were of the same opinion, sir, why, sir, I should be glad to negotiate a connexion,
sir.'

'Hem!--hem!--hem!' coughed Mr. Puffington. 'In the way of a huntsman do you mean?' afraid to
talk of servitude to so fine a gentleman.

'Just so,' said Mr. Bragg, with a chuck of his head, 'just so. The fact is, though I'm used
to the grass countries, sir, and could go to the Marquis of Maneylies, sir, to-morrow, sir,
I should prefer a quiet place in a somewhat inferior country, sir, to a five-days-a-week one
in the best. Five and six days a week, sir, is a terrible tax, sir, on the constitution, sir;
and though, sir, I'm thankful to say, sir, I've pretty good 'ealth, sir, yet, sir, you know,
sir, it don't do, sir, to take too great liberties with oneself, sir'; Mr. Bragg sawing away
at his hat as he spoke, measuring off a touch, as it were, to each 'sir,' the action becoming
quick towards the end.

'Why, to tell you the truth,' said Puff, looking rather sheepish, 'to tell you the truth--I
intended--I thought at least of--of--of--hunting them myself.'

'Ah! that's another pair of shoes altogether, as we say in France,' replied Bragg, with a low
bow and a copious round of the hand to the hat. 'That's another pair of shoes altogether,'
repeated he, tapping his boot with his whip.

'Why, I thought of it,' rejoined Puff, not feeling quite sure whether he could or not.

'Well,' said Mr. Bragg, drawing on his dogskin glove as if to be off.

'My friend Swellcove does it,' observed Puff.

'True,' replied Bragg, 'true; but my Lord Swellcove is one of a thousand. See how many have
failed for one that has succeeded. Why, even my Lord Scamperdale was 'bliged to give it up,
and no man rides harder than my Lord Scamperdale--always goes as if he had a spare neck in
his pocket. But he couldn't 'unt a pack of 'ounds. Your gen'l'men 'untsmen are all very well
on fine scentin' days when everything goes smoothly and well, and the 'ounds are tied to their
fox, as it were; but see them in difficulties--a failing scent, 'ounds pressed upon by the
field, fox chased by a dog, storm in the air, big brook to get over to make a cast. Oh, sir,
sir, it makes even me, with all my acknowledged science and experience, shudder to think of
the ordeal one undergoes!'

'Indeed,' exclaimed Mr. Puffington, staring, and beginning to think it mightn't be quite so
easy as it looked.

'I don't wish, sir, to dissuade you, sir, from the attempt, sir,' continued Mr. Bragg; 'far
from it, sir--for he, sir, who never makes an effort, sir, never risks a failure, sir, and
in great attempts, sir, 'tis glorious to fail, sir'; Mr. Bragg sawing away at his hat as he
spoke, and then sticking the fox-head handle of his whip under his chin.

Puff stood mute for some seconds.

'My Lord Scamperdale,' continued Mr. Bragg, scrutinizing our friend attentively, 'was as likely
a man, sir, as ever I see'd, sir, to make an 'untsman, for he had a deal of ret (rat) ketchin'
cunnin' about him, and, as I said before, didn't care one dim for his neck, but a more signal
disastrous failure was never recognized. It was quite lamentable to witness his proceeding.'

'How?' asked Mr. Puffington.

'How, sir?' repeated Mr. Bragg; 'why, sir, in all wayses. He had no dog language, to begin
with--he had little idea of making a cast--no science, no judgement, no manner--no nothin'--I'm
dim'd if ever I see'd sich a mess as he made.'

Puff looked unutterable things.

'He never did no good, in fact, till I fit him with Frostyface. I taught Frosty,' continued
Mr. Bragg. 'He whipped in to me when I 'unted the Duke of Downeybird's 'ounds--nice, 'cute,
civil chap he was--of all my pupils--and I've made some first-rate 'untsmen, I'm dim'd if I
don't think Frostyface does me about as much credit as any on 'em. Ah, sir,' continued Mr.
Bragg, with a shake of his head, 'take my word for it, sir, there's nothin' like a professional.
S-c-e-u-s-e me, sir,' added he, with a low bow and a sort of military salute of his hat; 'but
dim all gen'l'men 'untsmen, say I.'

Mr. Bragg had talked himself into several good places. Lord Reynard's and the Duke of Downeybird's
among others. He had never been able to keep any beyond his third season, his sauce or his
science being always greater than the sport he showed. Still he kept up appearances, and was
nothing daunted, it being a maxim of his that 'as one door closed another opened.'

Mr. Puffington's was the door that now opened for him.

What greater humiliation can a free-born Briton be subjected to than paying a man eighty or
a hundred pounds a year, and finding him house, coals, and candles, and perhaps a cow, to be
his master?

Such was the case with poor Mr. Puffington, and such, we grieve to say, is the case with nine-tenths
of the men who keep hounds; with all, indeed, save those who can hunt themselves, or who are
blest with an aspiring whip, ready to step into the huntsman's boots if he seems inclined to
put them off in the field. How many portly butlers are kept in subjection by having a footman
ready to supplant them. Of all cards in the servitude pack, however, the huntsman's is the
most difficult one to play. A man may say, 'I'm dim'd if I won't clean my own boots or my own
horse, before I'll put up with such a fellow's impudence'; but when it comes to hunting his
own hounds, it is quite another pair of shoes, as Mr. Bragg would say.

Mr. Bragg regularly took possession of poor Puff; as regularly as a policeman takes possession
of a prisoner. The reader knows the sort of feeling one has when a lawyer, a doctor, an architect,
or any one whom we have called in to assist, takes the initiative, and treats one as a nonentity,
pooh-poohing all one's pet ideas, and upsetting all one's well-considered arrangements.

Bragg soon saw he had a greenhorn to deal with, and treated Puff accordingly. If a 'perfect
servant' is only to begot out of the establishments of the great, Mr. Bragg might be looked
upon as a paragon of perfection, and now combined in his own person all the bad practices of
all the places he had been in. Having 'accepted Mr. Puffington's situation,' as the elegant
phraseology of servitude goes, he considered that Mr. Puffington had nothing more to do with
the hounds, and that any interference in 'his department' was a piece of impertinence. Puffington
felt like a man who has bought a good horse, but which he finds on riding is rather more of
a horse than he likes. He had no doubt that Bragg was a good man, but he thought he was rather
more of a gentleman than he required. On the other hand, Mr. Bragg's opinion of his master
may be gleaned from the following letter which he wrote to his successor, Mr. Brick, at Lord
Reynard's:

    'HANBY HOUSE, SWILLINGFORD.

    'DEAR BRICK,

'If your old man is done daffling with your draft, I should like to have the pick of it. I'm
with one Mr. Puffington, a city gent. His father was a great confectioner in the Poultry, just
by the Mansion House, and made his money out of Lord Mares. I shall only stay with him till
I can get myself suited in the rank of life in which I have been accustomed to move; but in
the meantime I consider it necessary for my own credit to do things as they should be. You
know my sort of hound; good shoulders, deep chests, strong loins, straight legs, round feet,
with plenty of bone all over. I hate a weedy animal; a small hound, light of bone, is only
fit to hunt a kat in a kitchen.

'I shall also want a couple of whips--not fellows like waiters from Crawley's hotel, but light,
active men, not boys. I'll have nothin' to do with boys; every boy requires a man to look arter
him. No; a couple of short, light, active men--say from five-and-twenty to thirty, with bow-legs
and good cheery voices, as nearly of the same make as you can find them. I shall not give them
large wage, you know; but they will have opportunities of improving themselves under me, and
qualifying themselves for high places. But mind, they must be steady--I'll keep no unsteady
servants; the first act of drunkenness, with me, is the last.

'I shall also want a second horseman; and here I wouldn't mind a mute boy who could keep his
elbows down and never touch the curb; but he must be bred in the line; a huntsman's second
horseman is a critical article, and the sporting world must not be put in mourning for Dick
Bragg. The lad will have to clean my boots, and wait at table when I have company--yourself,
for instance.

'This is only a poor, rough, ungentlemanly sort of shire, as far as I have seen it; and however
they got on with the things I found that they called hounds I can't for the life of me imagine.
I understand they went stringing over the country like a flock of wild geese. However, I have
rectified that in a manner by knocking all the fast 'uns and slow 'uns on the head; and I shall
require at least twenty couple before I can take the field. In your official report of what
your old file puts back, you'll have the kindness to cobble us up good long pedigrees, and
carry half of them at least back to the Beaufort Justice. My man has got a crochet into his
head about that hound, and I'm dimmed if he doesn't think half the hounds in England are descended
from the Beaufort Justice. These hounds are at present called the Mangeysternes, a very proper
title, I should say, from all I've seen and heard. That, however, must be changed; and we must
have a button struck, instead of the plain pewter plates the men have been in the habit of
hunting in.

'As to horses, I'm sure I don't know what we are to do in that line. Our pastrycook seems to
think that a hunter, like one of his pa's pies, can be made and baked in a day. He talks of
going over to Rowdedow Fair, and picking some up himself; but I should say a gentleman demeans
himself sadly who interferes with the just prerogative of the groom. It has never been allowed
I know in any place I have lived; nor do I think servants do justice to themselves or their
order who submit to it. Howsomever the crittur has what Mr. Cobden would call the "raw material"
for sport--that is to say, plenty of money--and I must see and apply it in such a way as will
produce it. I'll do the thing as it should be, or not at all.

'I hope your good lady is well--also all the little Bricks. I purpose making a little tower
of some of the best kennels as soon as the drafts are arranged, and will spend a day or two
with you, and see how you get on without me. Dear Brick,

    'Yours to the far end,

    'RICHARD BRAGG.

    'To BENJAMIN BRICK, Esq.,

    'Huntsman to the Right Hon. the Earl of Reynard,

    'Turkeypout Park.

    'P.S.--I hope your old man keeps a cleaner tongue in
    his head than he did when I was premier. I always say
    there was a good bargeman spoiled when they made him
    a lord.

    'R.B.'

CHAPTER XXXIV

THE BEAUFORT JUSTICE

There is nothing more indicative of real fine people than the easy indifferent sort of way
they take leave of their friends. They never seem to care a farthing for parting.

Our friend Jawleyford was quite a man of fashion in this respect. He saw Sponge's preparations
for departure with an unconcerned air, and a--'sorry you're going,' was all that accompanied
an imitation shake, or rather touch of the hand, on leaving. There was no 'I hope we shall
see you again soon,' or 'Pray look in if you are passing our way,' or 'Now that you've found
your way here we hope you'll not be long in being back,' or any of those blarneyments that
fools take for earnest and wise men for nothing. Jawleyford had been bit once, and he was not
going to give Mr. Sponge a second chance. Amelia too, we are sorry to say, did not seem particularly
distressed, though she gave him just as much of a sweet look as he squeezed her hand, as said,
'Now, if you should be a man of money, and my Lord Scamperdale does not make me my lady, you
may,' &c.

There is an old saying, that it is well to be 'off with the old love before one is on with
the new,' and Amelia thought it was well to be on with the new love before she was off with
the old. Sponge, therefore, was to be in abeyance.

We mentioned the delight infused into Jawleyford Court by the receipt of Lord Scamperdale's
letter, volunteering a visit, nor was his lordship less gratified at hearing in reply that
Mr. Sponge was on the eve of departure, leaving the coast clear for his reception. His lordship
was not only delighted at getting rid of his horror, but at proving the superiority of his
judgement over that of Jack, who had always stoutly maintained that the only way to get rid
of Mr. Sponge was by buying his horses.

'Well, that's good,' said his lordship, as he read the letter; 'that's good,' repeated he,
with a hearty slap of his thigh. 'Jaw's not such a bad chap after all; worse chaps in the world
than Jaw.' And his lordship worked away at the point till he very nearly got him up to be a
good chap.

They say it never rains but it pours, and letters seldom come singly; at least, if they do
they are quickly followed by others.

As Jack and his lordship were discussing their gin, after a repast of cow-heel and batter-pudding,
Baggs entered with the old brown weather-bleached letter-bag, containing a county paper, the
second-hand copy of Bell's Life, that his lordship and Frostyface took in between them, and
a very natty 'thick cream-laid' paper note.

'That must be from a woman,' observed Jack, squinting ardently at the writing, as his lordship
inspected the fine seal.

'Not far wrong,' replied his lordship. 'From a bitch of a fellow, at all events,' said he,
reading the words 'Hanby House' in the wax.

'What can old Puffey be wanting now?' inquired Jack.

'Some bother about hounds, most likely,' replied his lordship, breaking the seal, adding, 'the
thing's always amusing itself with playing at sportsman. Hang his impudence!' exclaimed his
lordship, as he opened the note.

'What's happened now?' asked Jack.

'How d'ye think he begins?' asked his lordship, looking at his friend.

'Can't tell, I'm sure,' said Jack, squinting his eyes inside out.

'Dear Scamp!' exclaimed his lordship, throwing out his arms.

'Dear Scamp!' repeated Jack in astonishment. 'It must be a mistake. It must be dear Frost,
not dear Scamp.'

'Dear Scamp is the word,' replied his lordship, again applying himself to the letter. 'Dear
Scamp,' repeated he, with a snort, adding, 'the impudent button-maker! I'll dear Scamp him!
"Dear Scamp, our friend Sponge!" Bo-o-y the powers, just fancy that! 'exclaimed his lordship,
throwing himself back in his chair, as if thoroughly overcome with disgust. 'Our friend Sponge!
the man who nearly knocked me into the middle of the week after next--the man who, first and
last, has broken every bone in my skin--the man who I hate the sight of, and detest afresh
every time I see--the 'bomination of all 'bominations; and then to call him our friend Sponge!
"Our friend Sponge,"' continued his lordship, reading, '"is coming on a visit of inspection
to my hounds, and I should be glad if you would meet him."'

'Shouldn't wonder!' exclaimed Jack.

'Meet him!' snapped his lordship; 'I'd go ten miles to avoid him.'

'"Glad if you would meet him,"' repeated his lordship, returning to the letter, and reading
as follows: '"If you bring a couple of nags or so we can put them up, and you may get a wrinkle
or two from Bragg." A wrinkle or two from Bragg! 'exclaimed his lordship, dropping the letter
and rolling in his chair with laughter. 'A wrinkle or two from Bragg!--he--he--he--he! The
idea of a wrinkle or two from Bragg!--haw--haw--haw--haw!

'That beats cockfightin',' observed Jack, squinting frightfully.

'Doesn't it?' replied his lordship. 'The man who's so brimful of science that he doesn't kill
above three brace of foxes in a season.'

'Which Puff calls thirty,' observed Jack.

'Th-i-r-ty!' exclaimed his lordship, adding, 'I'll lay he'll not kill thirty in ten years.'

His lordship then picked the letter from the floor, and resumed where he had left off.

'"I expect you will meet Tom Washball, Lumpleg, and Charley Slapp."'

'A very pretty party,' observed Jack, adding, 'Wouldn't be seen goin' to a bull-bait with any
on 'em.'

'Nor I,' replied his lordship.

'Birds of a feather,' observed Jack.

'Just so,' said his lordship, resuming his reading.

'"I think I have a hound that may be useful to you--" The devil you have!' exclaimed his lordship,
grinding his teeth with disgust. 'Useful to me, you confounded haberdasher!--you hav'n't a
hound in your pack that I'd take. "I think I have a hound that may be useful to you--"' repeated
his lordship.

'A Beaufort Justice one, for a guinea!' interrupted Jack, adding, 'He got the name into his
head at Oxford, and has been harping upon it ever since.'

'"I think I have a hound that may be useful to you--"' resumed his lordship, for the third
time. '"It is Old Merriman, a remarkably stout, true line hunting hound; but who is getting
slow for me--" Slow for you, you beggar!' exclaimed his lordship; 'I should have thought nothin'
short of a wooden 'un would have been too slow for you. "He's a six-season hunter, and is by
Fitzwilliam's Singwell out of his Darling. Singwell was by the Rutland Rallywood out of Tavistock's
Rhapsody. Rallywood was by Old Lonsdale's--" Old Lonsdale's!--the snob!' sneered Lord Scamperdale--'"Old
Lonsdale's Palafox, out of Anson's--" Anson's!--curse the fellow,' again muttered his lordship--'"out
of Anson's Madrigal. Darling was by old Grafton's Bolivar, out of Blowzy. Bolivar was by the
Brocklesby; that's Yarborough's--" That's Yarborough's!' sneered his lordship, 'as if one didn't
know that as well as him--"by the Brocklesby; that's Yarborough's Marmion out of Petre's Matchless;
and Marmion was by that undeniable hound, the--" the--what?' asked his lordship.

'Beaufort Justice, to be sure!' replied Jack.

'"The Beaufort Justice!"' read his lordship, with due emphasis.

'Hurrah!' exclaimed Jack, waving the dirty, egg-stained, mustardy copy of Bell's Life over
his head. 'Hurrah! I told you so.'

'But hark to Justice!' exclaimed his lordship, resuming his reading. '"I've always been a great
admirer of the Beaufort Justice blood--"'

'No doubt,' said Jack; 'it's the only blood you know.'

'"It was in great repute in the Badminton country in old Beaufort's time, with whom I hunted
a great deal many years ago, I'm sorry to say. The late Mr. Warde, who, of course, was very
justly partial to his own sort, had never any objection to breeding from this Beaufort Justice.
He was of Lord Egremont's blood, by the New Forest Justice; Justice by Mr. Gilbert's Jasper;
and Jasper bred by Egremont--" Oh, the hosier!' exclaimed his lordship; 'he'll be the death of me.'

'Is that all?' asked Jack, as his lordship seemed lost in meditation.

'All?--no!' replied he, starting up, adding, 'here's something about you.'

'Me!' exclaimed Jack.

'"If Mr. Spraggon is with you, and you like to bring him, I can manage to put him up too,"'
read his lordship. 'What think you of that?' asked his lordship, turning to our friend, who
was now squinting his eyes inside out with anger.

'Think of it!' retorted Jack, kicking out his legs--'think of it!--why, I think he's a dim'd
impittant feller, as Bragg would say.'

'So he is,' replied his lordship; 'treating my friend Jack so.'

'I've a good mind to go,' observed Jack, after a pause, thinking he might punish Puff, and
try to do a little business with Sponge. 'I've a good mind to go,' repeated he; 'just by way
of paying Master Puff off. He's a consequential jackass, and wants taking down a peg or two.'

'I think you may as well go and do it,' replied his lordship, after thinking the matter over;
'I think you may as well go and do it. Not that he'll be good to take the conceit out of, but
you may vex him a bit; and also learn something of the movements of his friend Sponge. If he
sarves Puff out as he's sarved me,' continued his lordship, rubbing his ribs with his elbows,
'he'll very soon have enough of him.'

'Well,' said Jack, 'I really think it will be worth doing. I've never been at the beggar's
shop, and they say he lives well.'

'Well, aye!' exclaimed his lordship; 'fat o' the land--dare say that man has fish and soup
every day.'

'And wax-candles to read by, most likely,' observed Jack, squinting at the dim mutton-fats
that Baggs now brought in.

'Not so grand as that,' observed his lordship, doubting whether any man could be guilty of
such extravagance; 'composites, p'raps.'

It being decided that Jack should answer Mr. Puffington's invitation as well and saucily as
he could, and a sheet of very inferior paper being at length discovered in the sideboard drawer,
our friends forthwith proceeded to concoct it. Jack having at length got all square, and the
black-ink lines introduced below, dipped his pen in the little stone ink-bottle, and, squinting
up at his lordship, said:

'How shall I begin?'

'Begin?' replied he. 'Begin--oh, let's see--begin--begin, "Dear Puff," to be sure.'

'That'll do,' said Jack, writing away.

('Dear Puff!' sneered our friend, when he read it; 'the idea of a fellow like that writing
to a man of my p-r-o-r-perty that way.')

'Say "Scamp,"' continued his lordship, dictating again, '"is engaged, but I'll be with you
at feeding-time."'

('Scamp's engaged,' read Puffington, with a contemptuous curl of the lip,' Scamp's engaged:
I like the impudence of a fellow like that calling noblemen nicknames.')

The letter concluded by advising Puffington to stick to the Beaufort Justice blood, for there
was nothing in the world like it. And now, having got both our friends booked for visits, we
must yield precedence to the nobleman, and accompany him to Jawleyford Court.

CHAPTER XXXV

LORD SCAMPERDALE AT JAWLEYFORD COURT

Although we have hitherto depicted Lord Scamperdale either in his great uncouth hunting-clothes
or in the flare-up red and yellow Stunner tartan, it must not be supposed that he had not fine
clothes when he chose to wear them, only he wanted to save them, as he said, to be married
in. That he had fine ones, indeed, was evident from the rig-out he lent Jack when that worthy
went to Jawleyford Court, and, in addition to those which were of the evening order, he had
an uncommonly smart Stultz frock-coat, with a velvet collar, facings, and cuffs, and a silk
lining. Though so rough and ready among the men, he was quite the dandy among the ladies, and
was as anxious about his appearance as a girl of sixteen. He got himself clipped and trimmed,
and shaved with the greatest care, curving his whiskers high on to the cheekbones, leaving
a great breadth of bare fallow below.

Baggs the butler was despatched betimes to Jawleyford Court with the dog-cart freighted with
clothes, driven by a groom to attend to the horses, while his lordship mounted his galloping
grey hack towards noon, and dashed through the country like a comet. The people, who were only
accustomed to see him in his short, country-cut hunting-coats, baggy breeches, and shapeless
boots, could hardly recognize the frock-coated, fancy-vested, military-trousered swell, as
Lord Scamperdale. Even Titus Grabbington, the superintendent of police, declared that he wouldn't
have known him but for his hat and specs. The latter, we need hardly say, were the silver ones--the
pair that he would not let Jack have when he went to Jawleyford Court. So his lordship went
capering and careering along, avoiding, of course, all the turnpike-gates, of which he had
a mortal aversion.

Jawleyford Court was in full dress to receive him--everything was full fig. Spigot appeared
in buckled shorts and black silk stockings; while vases of evergreens and winter flowers mounted
sentry on passage tables and landing-places. Everything bespoke the elegant presence of the fair.

To the credit of Dame Fortune let us record that everything went smoothly and well. Even the
kitchen fire behaved as it ought. Neither did Lord Scamperdale arrive before he was wanted,
a very common custom with people unused to public visiting. He cast up just when he was wanted.
His ring of the door-bell acted like the little tinkling bell at a theatre, sending all parties
to their places, for the curtain to rise.

Spigot and his two footmen answered the summons, while his lordship's groom rushed out of a
side-door, with his mouth full of cold meat, to take his hack.

Having given his flat hat to Spigot, his whip-stick to one footman, and his gloves to the other,
he proceeded to the family tableau in the drawing-room.

Though his lordship lived so much by himself he was neither gauche nor stupid when he went
into society. Unlike Mr. Spraggon, he had a tremendous determination of words to the mouth,
and went best pace with his tongue instead of coughing and hemming, and stammering and stuttering--wishing
himself 'well out of it,' as the saying is. His seclusion only seemed to sharpen his faculties
and make him enjoy society more. He gushed forth like a pent-up fountain. He was not a bit
afraid of the ladies--rather the contrary; indeed, he would make love to them all--all that
were good-looking, at least, for he always candidly said that he 'wouldn't have anything to
do with the ugly 'uns.' If anything, he was rather too vehement, and talked to the ladies in
such an earnest, interested sort of way, as made even bystanders think there was 'something
in it,' whereas, in point of fact, it was mere manner.

He began as soon as ever he got to Jawleyford Court--at least, as soon as he had paid his respects
all round and got himself partially thawed at the fire; for the cold had struck through his
person, his fine clothes being a poor substitute for his thick double-milled red coat, blankety
waistcoat, and Jersey shirt.

There are some good-natured, well-meaning people in this world who think that fox-hunters can
talk of nothing but hunting, and who put themselves to very serious inconvenience in endeavouring
to get up a little conversation for them. We knew a bulky old boy of this sort, who invariably,
after the cloth was drawn, and he had given each leg a kick out to see if they were on, commenced
with, 'Well, I suppose, Mr. Harkington has a fine set of dogs this season?' 'A fine set of
dogs this season! 'What an observation! How on earth could any one hope to drive a conversation
on the subject with such a commencement?

Some ladies are equally obliging in this respect. They can stoop to almost any subject that
they think will procure them husbands. Music!--if a man is fond of music, they will sing themselves
into his good graces in no time. Painting!--oh, they adore painting--though in general they
don't profess to be great hands at it themselves. Balls, boating, archery, racing--all these
they can take a lively interest in; or, if occasion requires, can go on the serious tack and
hunt a parson with penny subscriptions for a clothing-club or soup-kitchen.

Fox-hunting!--we do not know that fox-hunting is so safe a speculation for young ladies as
any of the foregoing. There are many pros and cons in the matter of the chase. A man may think--especially
in these hard times, with 'wheat below forty,' as Mr. Springwheat would say--that it will be
as much as he can do to mount himself. Again, he may not think a lady looks any better for
running down with perspiration, and being daubed with mud. Above all, if he belongs to the
worshipful company of Craners, he may not like for his wife to be seen beating him across country.

Still, there are many ways that young ladies may insinuate themselves into the good graces
of sportsmen without following them into the hunting-field. Talking about their horses, above
all admiring them, taking an interest in their sport, seeing that they have nice papers of
sandwiches to take out with them, or recommending them to be bled when they come home with
dirty faces after falls.

Miss Amelia Jawleyford, who was most elegantly attired in a sea-green silk dress with large
imitation pearl buttons, claiming the usual privilege of seniority of birth, very soon led
the charge against Lord Scamperdale.

'Oh, what a lovely horse that is you were riding,' observed she, as his lordship kept stooping
with both his little red fists close into the bars of the grate.

'Isn't it!' exclaimed he, rubbing his hands heartily together. 'Isn't it!' repeated he, adding,
'that's what I call a clipper.'

'Why do you call it so?' asked she.

'Oh, I don't mean that clipper is its name,' replied he; 'indeed, we call her Cherry Bounce
in the stable--but she's what they call a clipper--a good 'un to go, you know,' continued he,
staring at the fair speaker through his great, formidable spectacles.

We believe there is nothing frightens a woman so much as staring at her through spectacles.
A barrister in barnacles is a far more formidable cross-examiner than one without. But, to
his lordship's back.

'Will he eat bread out of your hand?' asked Amelia, adding, 'I should so like a horse that
would eat bread out of my hand.'

'Oh yes; or cheese either,' replied his lordship, who was a bit of a wag, and as likely to
try a horse with one as the other.

'Oh, how delightful! what a charming horse!' exclaimed Amelia, turning her fine eyes up to
the ceiling.

'Are you fond of horses?' asked his lordship, smacking one hand against the other, making a
noise like the report of a pistol.

'Oh, so fond!' exclaimed Amelia, with a start; for she hadn't got through her favourite, and,
as she thought, most attractive attitude.

'Well, now, that's nice,' said his lordship, giving his other hand a similar bang, adding,
'I like a woman that's fond of horses.'

'Then 'Melia and you'll 'gree nicely,' observed Mrs. Jawleyford, who was always ready to give
a helping hand to her own daughters, at least.

'I don't doubt it!' replied his lordship, with emphasis, and a third bang of his hand, louder
if possible than before. 'And do you like horses?' asked his lordship, darting sharply round
on Emily, who had been yielding, or rather submitting, to the precedence of her sister.

'Oh yes; and hounds, too!' replied she eagerly.

'And hounds, too!' exclaimed his lordship, with a start, and another hearty bang of the fist,
adding, 'well, now, I like a woman that likes hounds.'

Amelia frowned at the unhandsome march her sister had stolen upon her. Just then in came Jawleyford,
much to the annoyance of all parties. A host should never show before the dressing-bell rings.

When that glad sound was at length heard, the ladies, as usual, immediately withdrew; and of
course the first thing Amelia did when she got to her room was to run to the glass to see how
she had been looking: when, grievous to relate, she found an angry hot spot in the act of breaking
out on her nose.

What a distressing situation for a young lady, especially one with a spectacled suitor. 'Oh,
dear!' she thought, as she eyed it in the glass, 'it will look like Vesuvius itself through
his formidable inquisitors.' Worst of all, it was on the side she would have next him at dinner,
should he choose to sit with his back to the fire. However, there was no help for it, and the
maid kindly assuring her, as she worked away at her hair, that it 'would never be seen,' she
ceased to watch it, and turned her attention to her toilette. The fine, new broad-lace flounced,
light-blue satin dress--a dress so much like a ball dress as to be only appreciable as a dinner
one by female eyes--was again in requisition; while her fine arms were encircled with chains
and armlets of various brilliance and devices. Thus attired, with a parting inspection of the
spot, she swept downstairs, with as smart a bouquet as the season would afford. As luck would
have it, she encountered his lordship himself wandering about the passage in search of the
drawing-room, of whose door he had not made a sufficient observation on leaving. He too, was
uncommonly smart, with the identical dress-coat Mr. Spraggon wore, a white waistcoat with turquoise
buttons, a lace-frilled shirt, and a most extensive once-round Joinville. He had been eminently
successful in accomplishing a tie that would almost rival the sticks farmers put upon truant
geese to prevent their getting through gaps or under gates.

Well, Miss Amelia having come to his lordship's assistance, and eased him of his candle, now
showed him into the drawing-room; and his hands being disengaged, like a true Englishman, he
must be doing, and accordingly he commenced an attack on her bouquet.

'That's a fine nosegay!' exclaimed he, staring and rubbing his snub nose into the midst of it.

'Let me give you a piece,' replied Amelia, proceeding to detach some of the best.

'Do,' replied his lordship, banging one hand against the other, adding, 'I'll wear it next
my heart of hearts.'

In sidled Miss Emily just as his lordship was adjusting it in his button-hole, and the inconstant
man immediately chopped over to her.

'Well, now, that is a beautiful nosegay!' exclaimed he, turning upon her in precisely the same
way, with a bang of the hand and a dive of his nose into Emily's.

She did not offer him any, and his lordship continued his attentions to her until Mrs. Jawleyford
entered.

Dinner was presently announced; but his lordship, instead of choosing to sit with his back
to the fire, took the single chair opposite, which gave him a commanding view of the young
ladies. He did not, however, take any advantage of his position during the repast, neither
did he talk much, his maxim being to let his meat stop his mouth. The preponderance of his
observations, perhaps, were addressed to Amelia, though a watchful observer might have seen
that the spectacles were oftener turned upon Emily. Up to the withdrawal of the cloth, however,
there was no perceptible advantage on either side.

As his lordship settled to the sweets, at which he was a great hand at dessert, Amelia essayed
to try her influence with the popular subject of a ball. 'I wish the members of your hunt would
give us a ball, my lord,' observed she.

'Ah, hay, hum--ball,' replied he, ladling up the syrup of some preserved peaches that he had
been eating; 'ball, ball, ball. No place to give it--no place to give it,' repeated he.

'Oh, give it in the town-hall, or the long room at the Angel,' replied she.

'Town-hall--long room at the Angel--Angel at the long room of the town-hall--oh, certainly,
certainly, certainly,' muttered he, scraping away at the contents of his plate.

'Then that's a bargain, mind,' observed Amelia significantly.

'Bargain, bargain, bargain--certainly,' replied he; 'and I'll lead off with you, or you'll
lead off with me--whichever way it is--meanwhile, I'll trouble you for a piece of that gingerbread.'

Having supplied him with a most liberal slice, she resumed the subject of the ball.

'Then we'll fix it so,' observed she.

'Oh, fix it so, certainly--certainly fix it so,' replied his lordship, filling his mouth full
of gingerbread.

'Suppose we have it on the day of the races?' continued Amelia.

'Couldn't be better,' replied his lordship; 'couldn't be better,' repeated he, eyeing her intently
through his formidable specs.

His lordship was quite in the assenting humour, and would have agreed to anything--anything
short of lending one a five-pound note.

Amelia was charmed with her success. Despite the spot on her nose, she felt she was winning.

His lordship sat like a target, shot at by all, but making the most of his time, both in the
way of eating and staring between questions.

At length the ladies withdrew, and his lordship having waddled to the door to assist their
egress, now availed himself of Jawleyford's invitation to occupy an arm-chair during the enjoyment
of his 'Wintle.'

Whether it was the excellence of the beverage, or that his lordship was unaccustomed to wine-drinking,
or that Jawleyford's conversation was unusually agreeable, we know not, but the summons to
tea and coffee was disregarded, and when at length they did make their appearance, his lordship
was what the ladies call rather elevated, and talked thicker than there was any occasion for.
He was very voluble at first--told all how Sponge had knocked him about, how he detested him,
and wouldn't allow him to come to the hunt ball, &c.; but he gradually died out, and at last
fell asleep beside Mrs. Jawleyford on the sofa, with his little legs crossed, and a half-emptied
coffee-cup in his hand, which Mr. Jawleyford and she kept anxiously watching, expecting the
contents to be over the fine satin furniture every moment.

In this pleasant position they remained till he awoke himself with a hearty snore, and turned
the coffee over on to the carpet. Fortunately there was little damage done, and, it being nearly
twelve o'clock, his lordship waddled off to bed.

Amelia, when she came to think matters over in the retirement of her own room, was well satisfied
with the progress she had made. She thought she only wanted opportunity to capture him. Though
she was most anxious for a good night in order that she might appear to advantage in the morning,
sleep forsook her eyelids, and she lay awake long thinking what she would do when she was my
lady--how she would warm Woodmansterne, and what a dashing equipage she would keep. At length
she dropped off, just as she thought she was getting into her well-appointed chariot, showing
a becoming portion of her elegantly turned ankles.

In the morning she attired herself in her new light blue satin robe, corsage Albanaise, with
a sort of three-quarter sleeves, and muslin under ones--something, we believe, out of the last
book of fashion. She also had her hair uncommonly well arranged, and sported a pair of clean
primrose-coloured gloves. 'Now for victory,' said she, as she took a parting glance at herself
in general, and the hot spot in particular.

Judge of her disgust on meeting her mamma on the staircase at learning that his lordship had
got up at six o'clock, and had gone to meet his hounds on the other side of the county. That
Baggs had boiled his oatmeal porridge in his bedroom, and his lordship had eaten it as he was
dressing.

It may be asked, what was the maid about not to tell her.

The fact is, that ladies'-maids are only numb hands in all that relates to hunting, and though
Juliana knew that his lordship was up, she thought he had gone to have his hunt before breakfast,
just as the young gentlemen in the last place she lived in used to go and have a bathe.

Baggs, we may add, was a married man, and Juliana and he had not had much conversation.

CHAPTER XXXVI

MR. BRAGG'S KENNEL MANAGEMENT

The reader will now have the kindness to consider that Mr. Puffington has undergone his swell
huntsman, Dick Bragg, for three whole years, during which time it was difficult to say whether
his winter's service or his summer's impudence was most oppressive. Either way, Mr. Puffington
had had enough both of him and the honours of hound-keeping. Mr. Bragg was not a judicious
tyrant. He lorded it too much over Mr. Puffington; was too fond of showing himself off, and
exposing his master's ignorance before the servants, and field. A stranger would have thought
that Mr. Bragg, and not 'Mr. Puff,' as Bragg called him, kept the hounds. Mr. Puffington took
it pretty quietly at first, Bragg inundating him with what they did at the Duke of Downeybird's,
Lord Reynard's, and the other great places in which he had lived, till he almost made Puff
believe that such treatment was a necessary consequence of hound-keeping. Moreover, the cost
was heavy, and the promised subscriptions were almost wholly imaginary; even if they had been
paid, they would not have covered a quarter of the expense Mr. Bragg ran him to; and worst
of all, there was an increasing instead of a diminishing expenditure. Trust a servant for keeping
things up to the mark.

All things, however, have an end, and Mr. Bragg began to get to the end of Mr. Puff's patience.
As Puff got older he got fonder of his five-pound notes, and began to scrutinize bills and
ask questions; to be, as Mr. Bragg said, 'very little of the gentleman'; Bragg, however, being
quite one of your 'make-hay-while-the-sun-shines' sort, and knowing too well the style of man
to calculate on a lengthened duration of office, just put on the steam of extravagance, and
seemed inclined to try how much he could spend for his master. His bills for draft hounds were
enormous; he was continually chopping and changing his horses, often almost without consulting
his master; he had a perfect museum of saddles and bridles, in which every invention and variety
of bit was exhibited; and he had paid as much as twenty pounds to different 'valets' and grooms
for invaluable recipes for cleaning leather breeches and gloves. Altogether, Bragg overdid
the thing; and when Mr. Puffington, in the solitude of a winter's day, took pen, ink, and paper,
and drew out a 'balance sheet,' he found that on the average of six brace of foxes to the season,
they had cost him about three hundred pounds a head killing. It was true that Bragg always
returned five or six and twenty brace; but that was as between Bragg and the public, as between
Bragg and his master the smaller figure was the amount.

Mr. Puffington had had enough of it, and he now thought if he could get Mr. Sponge (who he
still believed to be a sporting author on his travels) to immortalize him, he might retire
into privacy, and talk of 'when I kept hounds,' 'when I hunted the country,' 'when I was master
of hounds I did this, and I did that,' and fuss, and be important as we often see ex-masters
of hounds when they go out with other packs. It was this erroneous impression with regard to
Mr. Sponge that took our friend to the meet of Lord Scamperdale's hounds at Scrambleford Green,
when he gave Mr. Sponge a general invitation to visit him before he left the country, an invitation
that was as acceptable to Mr. Sponge on his expulsion from Jawleyford Court, as it was agreeable
to Mr. Puffington--by opening a route by which he might escape from the penalty of hound-keeping,
and the persecution of his huntsman.

The reader will therefore now have the kindness to consider Mr. Puffington in receipt of Mr.
Sponge's note, volunteering a visit.

With gay and cheerful steps our friend hurried off to the kennel, to communicate the intelligence
to Mr. Bragg of an intended honour that he inwardly hoped would have the effect of extinguishing
that great sporting luminary.

Arriving at the kennel, he learned from the old feeder, Jack Horsehide, who, as usual, was
sluicing the flags with water, though the weather was wet, that Mr. Bragg was in the house
(a house that had been the steward's in the days of the former owner of Hanby House). Thither
Mr. Puffington proceeded; and the front door being open he entered, and made for the little
parlour on the right. Opening the door without knocking, what should he find but the swell
huntsman, Mr. Bragg, full fig, in his cap, best scarlet and leathers, astride a saddle-stand,
sitting for his portrait!

'O, dim it!' exclaimed Bragg, clasping the front of the stand as if it was a horse, and throwing
himself off, an operation that had the effect of bringing the new saddle on which he was seated
bang on the floor. 'O, sc-e-e-use me, sir,' seeing it was his master, 'I thought it was my
servant; this, sir,' continued he, blushing and looking as foolish as men do when caught getting
their hair curled or sitting for their portraits, 'this, sir, is my friend, Mr. Ruddle, the
painter, sir--yes, sir--very talented young man, sir--asked me to sit for my portrait, sir--is
going to publish a series of portraits of all the best huntsmen in England, sir.'

'And masters of hounds,' interposed Mr. Ruddle, casting a sheep's eye at Mr. Puffington.

'And masters of hounds, sir,' repeated Mr. Bragg; 'yes, sir, and masters of hounds, sir'; Mr.
Bragg being still somewhat flurried at the unexpected intrusion.

'Ah, well,' interrupted Mr. Puffington, who was still eager about his mission, 'we'll talk
about that after. At present I'm come to tell you,' continued he, holding up Mr. Sponge's note,
'that we must brush up a little--going to have a visit of inspection from the great Mr. Sponge.'

'Indeed, sir!' replied Mr. Bragg, with the slightest possible touch of his cap, which he still
kept on. 'Mr. Sponge, sir!--indeed, sir--Mr. Sponge, sir--pray who may he be, sir?'

'Oh--why--hay--hum--haw--he's Mr. Sponge, you know--been hunting with Lord Scamperdale, you
know--great sportsman, in fact--great authority, you know.' 'Indeed--great authority is he--indeed--oh--yes--thinks
so p'raps--sc-e-e-use me, sir, but des-say, sir, I've forgot more, sir, than Mr. Sponge ever
knew, sir.'

'Well, but you mustn't tell him so,' observed Mr. Puffington, fearful that Bragg might spoil sport.

'Oh, tell him--no,' sneered Bragg, with a jerk of the head; 'tell him--no; I'm not exactly
such a donkey as that; on the contrary, I'll make things pleasant, sir--sugar his milk for
him, sir, in short, sir.'

'Sugar his milk!' exclaimed Mr. Puffington, who was only a matter-of-fact man; 'sugar his milk!
I dare say he takes tea.'

'Well, then, sugar his tea,' replied Bragg, with a smile, adding, 'can 'commodate myself, sir,
to circumstances, sir,' at the same time taking off his cap and setting a chair for his master.

'Thank you, but I'm not going to stay,' replied Mr. Puffington; 'I only came up to let you
know who you had to expect, so that you might prepare, you know--have all on the square, you
know--best horses--best hounds--best appearance in general, you know.'

'That I'll attend to,' replied Mr. Bragg, with a toss of the head--'that I'll attend to,' repeated
he, with an emphasis on the I'll, as much as to say, 'Don't you meddle with what doesn't concern
you.'

Mr. Puffington would fain have rebuked him for his impertinence, as indeed he often would fain
have rebuked him; but Mr. Bragg had so overpowered him with science, and impressed him with
the necessity of keeping him--albeit Mr. Puffington was sensible that he killed very few foxes--that,
having put up with him so long, he thought it would never do to risk a quarrel, which might
lose him the chance of getting rid of him and hounds altogether; therefore, Mr. Puffington,
instead of saying, 'You conceited humbug, get out of this,' or indulging in any observations
that might lead to controversy, said, with a satisfied, confidential nod of the head:

'I'm sure you will--I'm sure you will,' and took his departure, leaving Mr. Bragg, to remount
the saddle-stand and take the remainder of his sitting.

CHAPTER XXXVII

MR. PUFFINGTON'S DOMESTIC ARRANGEMENTS

Perhaps it was fortunate that Mr. Bragg did take the kennel management upon himself, or there
is no saying but what with that and the house department, coupled with the usual fussiness
of a bachelor, the Sponge visit might have proved too much for our master. The notice of the
intended visit was short; and there were invitations to send out, and answers to get, bedrooms
to prepare, and culinary arrangements to make--arrangements that people in town, with all their
tradespeople at their elbows, can have no idea of the difficulty of effecting in the country.
Mr. Puffington was fully employed.

In addition to the parties mentioned as asked in his note to Lord Scamperdale, viz. Washball,
Charley Slapp, and Lumpleg, were Parson Blossomnose; Mr. Fossick of the Flat Hat Hunt, who
declined--Mr. Crane of Crane Hall; Captain Guano, late of that noble corps the Spotted Horse
Marines; and others who accepted. Mr. Spraggon was a sort of volunteer, at all events an undesired
guest, unless his lordship accompanied him. It so happened that the least wanted guest was
the first to arrive on the all-important day.

Lord Scamperdale, knowing our friend Jack was not over affluent, had no idea of spoiling him
by too much luxury, and as the railway would serve a certain distance in the line of Hanby
House, he despatched Jack to the Over-shoes-over-boots station with the dog-cart, and told
him he would be sure to find a 'bus, or to get some sort of conveyance at the Squandercash
station to take him up to Puffington's; at all events, his lordship added to himself, 'If he
doesn't, it'll do him no harm to walk, and he can easily get a boy to carry his bag.'

The latter was the case; for though the station-master assured Jack, on his arrival at Squandercash,
that there was a 'bus, or a mail gig, or a something to every other train, there was nothing
in connexion with the one that brought him, nor would he undertake to leave his carpet-bag
at Hanby House before breakfast-time the next morning.

Jack was highly enraged, and proceeded to squint his eyes inside out, and abuse all railways,
and chairmen, and directors, and secretaries, and clerks, and porters, vowing that railways
were the greatest nuisances under the sun--that they were a perfect impediment instead of a
facility to travelling--and declared that formerly a gentleman had nothing to do but order
his four horses, and have them turned out at every stage as he came up, instead of being stopped
in the ridicklous manner he then was; and he strutted and stamped about the station as if he
would put a stop to the whole line. His vehemence and big talk operated favourably on the Cockney
station-master, who, thinking he must be a duke, or some great man, began to consider how to
get him forwarded. It being only a thinly populated district--though there was a station equal
to any mercantile emergency, indeed to the requirements of the whole county--he ran the resources
of the immediate neighbourhood through his mind, and at length was obliged to admit--humbly
and respectfully--that he really was afraid Martha Muggins's donkey was the only available article.

Jack fumed and bounced at the very mention of such a thing, vowing that it was a downright
insult to propose it; and he was so bumptious that the station-master, who had nothing to gain
by the transaction, sought the privacy of the electric telegraph office, and left him to vent
the balance of his wrath upon the porters.

Of course they could do nothing more than the king of their little colony had suggested; and
finding there was no help for it, Mr. Spraggon at last submitted to the humiliation, and set
off to follow young Muggins with his bag on the donkey, in his best top-boots, worn under his
trousers--an unpleasant operation to any one, but especially to a man like Jack, who preferred
wearing his tops out against the flaps of his friends' saddles, rather than his soles by walking
upon them. However, necessity said yes; and cocking his flat hat jauntily on his head, he stuck
a cheroot in his mouth, and went smoking and swaggering on, looking--or rather squinting--bumptiously
at everybody he met, as much as to say, 'Don't suppose I'm walking from necessity! I've plenty
of tin.'

The third cheroot brought Jack and his suite within sight of Hanby House.

Mr. Puffington had about got through all the fuss of his preparations, arranged the billets
of the guests and of those scarcely less important personages--their servants, allotted the
stables, and rehearsed the wines, when a chance glance through the gaily furnished drawing-room
window discovered Jack trudging up the trimly kept avenue.

'Here's that nasty Spraggon,' exclaimed he, eyeing Jack dragging his legs along, adding, 'I'll
be bound to say he'll never think of wiping his filthy feet if I don't go to meet him.'

So saying, Puffington rushed to the entrance, and crowning himself with a white wide-awake,
advanced cheerily to do so.

Jack, who was more used to 'cold shoulder' than cordial reception, squinted and stared with
surprise at the unwonted warmth, so different to their last interview, when Jack was fresh
out of his clay-hole in the Brick Fields; but not being easily put out of his way, he just
took Puff as Puff took him. They talked of Scamperdale, and they talked of Frostyface, and
the number of foxes he had killed, the price of corn, and the difference its price made in
the keep of hounds and horses. Altogether they were very 'thick.'

'And how's our friend Sponge?' asked Puffington, as the conversation at length began to flag.

'Oh, he's nicely,' replied Jack, adding, 'hasn't he come yet?'

'Not that I've seen,' answered Puffington, adding, 'I thought, perhaps, you might come together.'

'No,' grunted Jack; 'he comes from Jawleyford's, you know; I'm from Woodmansterne.'

'We'll go and see if he's come,' observed Puffington, opening a door in the garden-wall, into
which he had manoeuvred Jack, communicating with the courtyard of the stable.

'Here are his horses,' observed Puffington, as Mr. Leather rode through the great gates on
the opposite side, with the renowned hunters in full marching order.

'Monstrous fine animals they are,' said Jack, squinting intently at them.

'They are that,' replied Puffington.

'Mr. Sponge seems a very pleasant, gentlemanly man,' observed Mr. Puffington.

'Oh, he is,' replied Jack.

'Can you tell me--can you inform me--that's to say, can you give me any idea,' hesitated Puffington,
'what is the usual practice--the usual course--the usual understanding as to the treatment
of those sort of gentlemen?'

'Oh, the best of everything's good enough for them,' replied Jack, adding, 'just as it is with me.'

'Ah, I don't mean in the way of eating and drinking, but in the way of encouragement--in the
way of a present, you know?' adding--'What did my lord do?' seeing Jack was slow at comprehension.

'Oh, my lord bad-worded him well,' replied Jack, adding, 'he didn't get much encouragement
from him.'

'Ah, that's the worst of my lord,' observed Puffington; 'he's rather coarse--rather too indifferent
to public opinion. In a case of this sort, you know, that doesn't happen every day, or, perhaps,
more than once in a man's life, it's just as well to be favourably spoken of as not, you know';
adding, as he looked intently at Jack--'Do you understand me?'

Jack, who was tolerably quick at a chance, now began to see how things were, and to fathom
Mr. Puffington's mistake. His ready imagination immediately saw there might be something made
of it, so he prepared to keep up the delusion.

'Wh-o-o-y!' said he, straddling out his legs, clasping his hands together, and squinting steadily
through his spectacles, to try and see, by Puffington's countenance, how much he would stand.
'W-h-o-o-y!' repeated he, 'I shouldn't think--though, mind, it's mere conjectur' on my part--that
you couldn't offer him less than--twenty or five-and-twenty punds; or, say, from that to thirty,'
continued Jack, seeing that Puff's countenance remained complacent under the rise.

'And that you think would be sufficient?' asked Puff, adding--'If one does the thing at all,
you know, it's as well to do it handsomely.'

'True,' replied Jack, sticking out his great thick lips, 'true. I'm a great advocate for doing
things handsomely. Many a row I have with my lord for thanking fellows, and saying he'll remember
them instead of giving them sixpence or a shilling; but really I should say, if you were to
give him forty or fifty pund--say a fifty--pund note, he'd be--'

The rest of the sentence was lost by the appearance of Mr. Sponge, cantering up the avenue
on the conspicuous piebald. Mr. Puffington and Mr. Spraggon greeted him as he alighted at the door.

Sponge was quickly followed by Tom Washball; then came Charley Slapp and Lumpleg, and Captain
Guano came in a gig. Mutual bows and bobs and shakes of the hand being exchanged, amid offers
of 'anything before dinner' from the host, the guests were at length shown to their respective
apartments, from which in due time they emerged, looking like so many bridegrooms.

First came the worthy master of the hounds himself, in his scarlet dress-coat, lined with white
satin; Tom Washball, and Charley Slapp also sported Puff's uniform; while Captain Guano, who
was proud of his leg, sported the uniform of the Muffington Hunt--a pea-green coat lined with
yellow, and a yellow collar, white shorts with gold garters, and black silk stockings.

Spraggon had been obliged to put up with Lord Scamperdale's second best coat, his lordship
having taken the best one himself; but it was passable enough by candle light, and the seediness
of the blue cloth was relieved by a velvet collar and a new set of the Flat Hat Hunt buttons.
Mr. Sponge wore a plain scarlet with a crimson velvet collar, and a bright fox on the frosted
ground of a gilt button, with tights as before; and when Mr. Crane arrived he was found to
be attired in a dress composed partly of Mr. Puffington's and partly of the Muggeridge Hunt
uniform--the red coat of the former surmounting the white shorts and black stockings of the
other. Altogether, however, they were uncommonly smart, and it is to be hoped that they appreciated
each other.

The dinner was sumptuous. Puff, of course, was in the chair; and Captain Guano coming last
into the room, and being very fond of office, was vice. When men run to the 'noble science'
of gastronomy, they generally outstrip the ladies in the art of dinner-giving, for they admit
of no makeweight, or merely ornamental dishes, but concentrate the cook's energies on sterling
and approved dishes. Everything men set on is meant to be eaten. Above all, men are not too
fine to have the plate-warmer in the room, the deficiency of hot plates proving fatal to many
a fine feast. It was evident that Puff prided himself on his table. His linen was the finest
and whitest, his glass the most elegant and transparent, his plate the brightest, and his wines
the most costly and recherché. Like many people, however, who are not much in the habit of
dinner-giving, he was anxious and fussy, too intent upon making people comfortable to allow
of their being so, and too anxious to get victuals and drink down their throats to allow of
their enjoying either.

He not only produced a tremendous assortment of wines--Hock, Sauterne, Champagne, Barsack,
Burgundy, but descended into endless varieties of sherries and Madeiras. These he pressed upon
people, always insisting that the last sample was the best.

In these hospitable exertions Puffington was ably assisted by Captain Guano, who, being fond
of wine, came in for a good quantity; first of all by asking everyone to take wine with him,
and then in return every one asking him to do the same with them. The present absurd non-asking
system was not then in vogue. The great captain, noisy and talkative at all times, began to
be boisterous almost before the cloth was drawn.

Puffington was equally promiscuous with his after-dinner wines. He had all sorts of clarets,
and 'curious old ports.' The party did not seem to have any objection to spoil their digestions
for the next day, and took whatever he produced with great alacrity. Lengthened were the candle
examinations, solemn the sips, and sounding the smacks that preceded the delivery of their
Campbell-like judgements.

The conversation, which at first was altogether upon wine, gradually diverged upon sporting,
and they presently brewed up a very considerable cry. Foremost among the noisy ones was Captain
Guano. He seemed inclined to take the shine out of everybody.

'Oh! if they could but find a good fox that would give them a run of ten miles--say, ten miles--just
ten miles would satisfy him--say, from Barnesley Wold to Chingforde Wood, or from Carleburg
Clump to Wetherden Head. He was going to ride his famous horse Jack-a-Dandy--the finest horse
that ever was foaled! No day too long for him--no pace too great for him--no fence too stiff
for him--no brook too broad for him.'

Tom Washball, too, talked as if wearing a red coat was not the only purpose for which he hunted;
and altogether they seemed to be an amazing, sporting, hard-riding set.

When at length they rose to go to bed, it struck each man as he followed his neighbour upstairs
that the one before him walked very crookedly.

CHAPTER XXXVIII

A DAY WITH PUFFINGTON'S HOUNDS

Day dawned cheerfully. If there was rather more sun than the strict rules of Beckford prescribe,
still sunshine is not a thing to quarrel with under any circumstances--certainly not for a
gentleman to quarrel with who wants his place seen to advantage on the occasion of a meet of
hounds. Everything at Hanby House was in apple-pie order. All the stray leaves that the capricious
wintry winds still kept raising from unknown quarters, and whisking about the trim lawns, were
hunted and caught, while a heavy roller passed over the Kensington gravel, pressing out the
hoof and wheelmarks of the previous day. The servants were up betimes, preparing the house
for those that were in it, and a déjeûner à la fourchette for chance customers, from without.

They were equally busy at the stable. Although Mr. Bragg did profess such indifference for
Mr. Sponge's opinion, he nevertheless thought it might perhaps be as well to be condescending
to the stranger. Accordingly, he ordered his whips to be on the alert, to tie their ties and
put on their boots as they ought to be, and to hoist their caps becomingly on the appearance
of our friend. Bragg, like a good many huntsmen, had a sort of tariff of politeness, that he
indicated by the manner in which he saluted the field. To a lord, he made a sweep of his cap
like the dome of St. Paul's; a baronet came in for about half as much; a knight, to a quarter.
Bragg had also a sort of City or monetary tariff of politeness--a tariff that was oftener called
in requisition than the 'Debrett' one, in Mr. Puffington's country. To a good 'tip' he vouchsafed
as much cap as he gave to a lord; to a middling 'tip' he gave a sort of move that might either
pass for a touch of the cap or a more comfortable adjustment of it to his head; a very small
'tip' had a forefinger to the peak; while he who gave nothing at all got a good stare or a
good morning! or something of that sort. A man watching the arrival of the field could see
who gave the fives, who the fours, who the threes, who the twos, who the ones, and who were
the great o's.

But to our day with Mr. Puffington's hounds.

Our over-night friends were not quite so brisk in the morning as the servants and parties outside.
Puffington's 'mixture' told upon a good many of them. Washball had a headache, so had Lumpleg;
Crane was seedy; and Captain Guano, sea-green. Soda-water was in great request.

There was a splendid breakfast, table and sideboard looking as if Fortnum and Mason or Morel
had opened a branch establishment at Hanby House. Though the staying guests could not do much
for the good things set out, they were not wasted, for the place was fairly taken by storm
shortly before the advertised hour of meeting; and what at one time looked like a most extravagant
supply, at another seemed likely to prove a deficiency. Each man helped himself to whatever
he fancied, without waiting for the ceremony of an invitation, in the usual style of fox-hunting
hospitality.

A few minutes before eleven, a 'gently, Rantaway,' accompanied by a slight crack of a whip,
drew the seedy and satisfied parties to the oriel window, to see Mr. Bragg pass along with
his hounds. They were just gliding noiselessly over the green sward, Mr. Bragg rising in his
stirrups, as spruce as a game-cock, with his thoroughbred bay gambolling and pawing with delight
at the frolic of the hounds, some clustering around him, others shooting forward a little,
as if to show how obediently they would return at his whistle. Mr. Bragg was known as the whistling
huntsman, and was a great man for telegraphing and signalizing with his arms, boasting that
he could make hounds so handy that they could do everything, except pay the turnpike-gates.
At his appearance the men all began to shuffle to the passage and entrance-hall, to look for
their hats and whips; and presently there was a great outpouring of red coats upon the lawn,
all straddling and waddling of course. Then Mr. Bragg, seeing an audience, with a slight whistle
and wave of his right arm, wheeled his forces round, and trotted gaily towards where our guests
had grouped themselves, within the light iron railing that separated the smooth slope from
the field. As he reined in his horse, he gave his cap an aerial sweep, taking off perpendicularly,
and finishing at his horse's ears--an example that was immediately followed by the whips, and
also by Mr. Bragg's second horseman, Tom Stot.

'Good morning, Mister Bragg!

'Here's a fine morning, Mr. Bragg,' observed Tom Washball, who thought it knowing to talk to
servants.

'Yas, sir,' replied Bragg, 'yas,' with a slight inclination to cap; 'r-a-y-ther more san, p'raps,
than desirable,' continued he, raising his face towards the heavens; 'but still by no means
a bad day, sir--no, sir--by no means a bad day, sir.'

'Hounds looking well,' observed Charley Slapp between the whiffs of a cigar.

'Yas, sir,' said Bragg, 'yas,' looking around them with a self-satisfied smile; adding, 'so
they ought, sir--so they ought; if I can't bring a pack out as they should be, don't know who can.'

'Why, here's our old Rummager, I declare!' exclaimed Spraggon, who, having vaulted the iron
hurdles, was now among the pack. 'Why, here's our old Rummager, I declare!' repeated he, laying
his whip on the head of a solemn-looking black and white hound, somewhat down in the toes,
and looking as if he was about done.

'Sc-e-e-use me, sir,' replied Bragg, leaning over his horse's shoulder, and whispering into
Jack's ear; 'sc-e-e-use me, sir, but drop that, sir, if you please, sir.'

'Drop what?' asked Jack, squinting through his great tortoiseshell-rimmed spectacles up into
Bragg's face.

''Bout knowing of that 'ound, sir,' whispered Bragg; 'the fact is, sir--we call him Merryman,
sir; master don't know I got him from you, sir.'

'O-o-o,' replied Jack, squinting, if possible, more frightfully than before.

'Ah, that's the hound I offered to Scamperdale,' observed Puffington, seeing the movement,
and coming up to where Jack stood; 'that's the hound I offered to Scamperdale,' repeated he,
taking the old dog's head between his hands. 'There's no better hound in the world than this,'
continued he, patting and smoothing him; 'and no better bred hound either,' added he, rubbing
the dog's sides with his whip.

'How is he bred?' asked Jack, who knew the hound's pedigree better than he did his own. 'I'm
glad to hear you say so, for you understand these things--no man better; and I confess I've
a warm side to that Beaufort Justice blood.'

'Don't wonder at it,' replied Jack, laughing his waistcoat strings off.

'The great Mr. Warde,' continued Mr. Puffington, 'who was justly partial to his own sort, had
never any objection to breeding from the Beaufort Justice.'

'No, nor nobody else that knew what he was about,' replied Jack, turning away to conceal his
laughter.

'We should be moving, I think, sir,' observed Bragg, anxious to put an end to the conversation;
'we should be moving, I think, sir,' repeated he, with a rap of his forefinger against his
cap peak. 'It's past eleven,' added he, looking at his gold watch, and shutting it against
his cheek.

'What do you draw first?' asked Jack.

'Draw--draw--draw,' replied Puffington. 'Oh, we'll draw Rabbitborough Gorse--that's a new cover
I've inclosed on my pro-o-r-perty.'

'Sc-e-e-use me, sir,' replied Bragg, with a smile, and another rap of the cap: 'sc-e-e-use
me, sir, but I'm going to Hollyburn Hanger first.'

'Ah, well, Hollyburn Hanger,' replied Puffington, complacently; 'either will do very well.'

If Puff had proposed Hollyburn Hanger, Bragg would have said Rabbitborough Gorse.

The move of the hounds caused a rush of gentlemen to their horses, and there was the usual
scramblings up, and fidgetings, and funkings, and who-o-hayings and drawing of girths, and
taking up of curbs, and lengthening and shortening of stirrups.

Captain Guano couldn't get his stirrups to his liking anyhow. ''Ord hang these leathers,' roared
he, clutching up a stirrup-iron; 'who the devil would ever have sent one out a-huntin' with
a pair of new stirrup-leathers?'

'Hang you and the stirrup leathers,' growled the groom, as his master rode away; 'you're always
wantin' sumfin to find fault with. I'm blowed if it arn't a disgrace to an oss to carry such
a man,' added he, eyeing the chestnut fidgeting and wincing as the captain worked away at the
stirrups.

Mr. Bragg trotted briskly on with the hounds, preceded by Joe Banks the first whip, and having
Jack Swipes the second, and Tom Stot, riding together behind him, to keep off the crowd.

Thus the cavalcade swept down the avenue, crossed the Swillingford turnpike, and took through
a well-kept field road, which speedily brought them to the cover--rough, broomy, brushwood-covered
banks, of about three acres in extent, lying on either side of the little Hollyburn Brook,
one of the tiny streams that in angry times helped to swell the Swill into a river.

'Dim all these foot people!' exclaimed Mr. Bragg, in well-feigned disgust, as he came in view,
and found all the Swillingford snobs, all the tinkers and tailors, and cobblers and poachers,
and sheep-stealers, all the scowling, rotten-fustianed, baggy-pocketed scamps of the country
ranged round the cover, some with dogs, some with guns, some with snares, and all with sticks
or staffs. 'Well, I'm dimmed if ever I seed sich a--' The rest of the speech being lost amidst
the exclamations of: 'Ah! the hunds! the hunds! hoop! tally-o the hunds!' and a general rush
of the ruffians to meet them.

Captain Guano, who had now come up, joined in the denunciation, inwardly congratulating himself
on the probability that the first cover, at least, would be drawn blank. Tom Washball, who
was riding a very troublesome tail-foremost grey, also censured the proceeding.

And Mr. Puffington, still an 'amaaizin' instance of a pop'lar man,' exclaimed, as he rode among
them, 'Ah! my good fellows, I'd rather you'd come up and had some ale than disturbed the cover';
a hint that the wily ones immediately took, rushing up to the house, and availing themselves
of the absence of the butler, who had followed the hounds, to take a couple of dozen of his
best fiddle-handled forks while the footman was drawing them the ale.

The whips being duly signalled by Bragg to their points--Brick to the north corner, Swipes
to the south--and the field being at length drawn up to his liking, Mr. Bragg looked at Mr.
Puffington for his signal (the only piece of interference he allowed him); at a nod Mr. Bragg
gave a wave of his cap, and the pack dashed into cover with a cry.

'Yo-o-icks--wind him! Yo-o-icks--pash him up!' cheered Bragg, standing erect in his stirrups,
eyeing the hounds spreading and sniffing about, now this way, now that--now pushing through
a thicket, now threading and smelling along a meuse. 'Yo-o-icks--wind him! Yo-o-icks--pash
him up!' repeated he, cracking his whip, and moving slowly on. He then varied the entertainment
by whistling, in a sharp, shrill key, something like the chirp of a sparrow-hawk.

Thus the hounds rummaged and scrimmaged for some minutes.

'No fox here,' observed Captain Guano, bringing his horse alongside of Mr. Bragg's.

'Not so sure o' that,' replied Mr. Bragg, with a sneer, for he had a great contempt for the
captain. 'Not so sure o' that,' replied he, eyeing Thunderer and Galloper feathering up the brook.

'Hang these stirrups!' exclaimed the captain, again attempting to adjust them; adding, 'I declare
I have no seat whatever in this saddle.'

'Nor in any other,' muttered Bragg. 'Yo-icks, Galloper! Yo-icks, Thunderer! Ge-e-ntly, Warrior!'
continued he, cracking his whip, as Warrior pounced at a bunny.

The hounds were evidently on a scent, hardly strong enough to own, but sufficiently indicated
by their feathering, and the rush of their comrades to the spot.

'A fox for a thousand!' exclaimed Mr. Bragg, eyeing them, and looking at his watch.

'Oh, d--mn me! I've got one stirrup longer than another now!' roared Captain Guano, trying
the fresh adjustment. 'I've got one stirrup longer than another!' added he in a terrible pucker.

A low snatch of a whimper now proceeded from Galloper, and Bragg cheered him to the echo. In
another second a great banging brown fox burst from among the broom, and dashed down the little
dean. What noises, what exclamations rent the air! 'Talli-ho! talliho! talliho!' screamed a
host of voices, in every variety of intonation, from the half-frantic yell of a party seeing
him, down to the shout of a mere partaker of the epidemic. Shouting is very contagious. The
horsemen gathered up their reins, pressed down their hats, and threw away their cigar-ends.

''Ord hang it!' roared Captain Guano, still fumbling at the leathers, 'I shall never be able
to ride with stirrups in this state.'

'Hang your stirrups!' exclaimed Charley Slapp, shooting past him; adding, 'It was your saddle
last time.'

Bragg's queer tootle of his horn, for he was full of strange blows, now sounded at the low
end of the cover; and, having a pet line of gaps and other conveniences that he knew how to
turn to on the minute, he soon shot so far ahead as to give him the appearance (to the slow
'uns) of having flown. Brick and Swipes quickly had all the hounds after him, and Stot, dropping
his elbows, made for the road, to ride the second horse gently on the line. The field, as usual,
divided into two parts, the soft riders and the hard ones--the soft riders going by the fields,
the hard riders by the road. Messrs. Spraggon, Sponge, Slapp, Quilter, Rasper, Crasher, Smasher,
and some half-dozen more, bustled after Bragg; while the worthy master Mr. Puffington, Lumpleg,
Washball, Crane, Guano, Shirker, and very many others, came pounding along the lane. There
was a good scent, and the hounds shot across the Fleecyhaughwater Meadows, over the hill, to
the village of Berrington Roothings, where, the fox having been chased by a cur, the hounds
were brought to a check on some very bad scenting-ground, on the common, a little to the left
of the village, at the end of a quarter of an hour or so. The road having been handy, the hard
riders were there almost as soon as the soft ones; and there being no impediments on the common,
they all pushed boldly on among the now stooping hounds.

'Hold hard, gentlemen!' exclaimed Mr. Bragg, rising in his stirrups and telegraphing with his
right arm. 'Hold hard!--pray do!' added he, with little better success. 'Dim it, gen'lemen,
hold hard!' added he, as they still pressed upon the pack. 'Have a little regard for a huntsman's
raputation,' continued he. 'Remember that it rises and falls with the sport he shows'--exhortations
that seemed to be pretty well lost upon the field, who began comparing notes as to their respective
achievements, enlarging the leaps and magnifying the distance into double what they had been.
Puffington and some of the fat ones sat gasping and mopping their brows.

Seeing there was not much chance of the hounds hitting off the scent by themselves, Mr. Bragg
began telegraphing with his arm to the whippers-in, much in the manner of the captain of a
Thames steamer to the lad at the engine, and forthwith they drove the pack on for our swell
huntsman to make his cast. As good luck would have it, Bragg crossed the line of the fox before
he had got half-through his circle, and away the hounds dashed, at a pace and with a cry that
looked very like killing. Mr. Bragg was in ecstasies, and rode in a manner very contrary to
his wont. All again was life, energy, and action; and even some who hoped there was an end
of the thing, and that they might go home and say, as usual, 'that they had had a very good
run, but not killed,' were induced to proceed.

Away they all went as before.

At the end of eighteen minutes more the hounds ran into their fox in the little green valley
below Mountnessing Wood, and Mr. Bragg had him stretched on the green with the pack baying
about him, and the horses of the field-riders getting led about by the country people, while
the riders stood glorying in the splendour of the thing. All had a direct interest in making
it out as good as possible, and Mr. Bragg was quite ready to appropriate as much praise as
ever they liked to give.

''Ord dim him,' said he, turning up the fox's grim head with his foot, 'but Mr. Bragg's an
awkward customer for gen'lemen of your description.'

'You hunted him well!' exclaimed Charley Slapp, who was trumpeter general of the establishment.

'Oh, sir,' replied Bragg, with a smirk and a condescending bow, 'if Richard Bragg can't kill
foxes, I don't know who can.'

Just then 'Puffington and Co.' hove in sight up the valley, their faces beaming with delight
as the tableau before them told the tale. They hastened to the spot.

'How many brace is that?' asked Puffington, with the most matter-of-course air, as he trotted
up, and reined in his horse outside the circle.

'Seventeen brace, your grace, I mean to say my lord, that's to say sur,' replied Bragg, with
a strong emphasis on the sur, as if to say, 'I'm not used to you snobs of commoners.'

'Seventeen brace!' sneered Jack Spraggon to Sponge, adding, in a whisper, 'More like seven foxes.'

'And how many run to ground?' asked Puffington, alighting.

'Four brace,' replied Bragg, stooping to cut off the brush.

We were wrong in saying that Bragg only allowed Puff the privilege of nodding his head to say
when he might throw off. He let him lead the 'lie gallop' in the kill department.

Mr. Puffington then presented Mr. Sponge with the brush, and the usual solemnities being observed,
the sherry flasks were produced and drained, the biscuits munched, and, amidst the smoke of
cigars, the ring broke up in great good-will.

CHAPTER XXXIX

Writing A Run

The first fumes of excitement over, after a run with a kill, the field begin to take things
more coolly and veraciously, and ere long some of them begin to pick holes in the affair. The
men of the hunt run it up, while those of the next hunt run it down. Added to this there are
generally some cavilling, captious fellows in every field who extol a run to the master's face,
and abuse it behind his back. So it was on the present occasion. The men of the hunt--Charley
Slapp, Lumpleg, Guano, Crane, Washball, and others--lauded and magnified it into something
magnificent; while Fossick, Fyle, Wake, Blossomnose, and others of the 'Flat Hat Hunt,' pronounced
it a niceish thing--a pretty burst; and Mr. Vosper, who had hunted for five-and-twenty seasons
without ever subscribing one farthing to hounds, always declaring that each season was 'his
last,' or that he was going to confine himself entirely to some other pack, said it was nothing
to make a row about, that he had seen fifty better things with the Tinglebury harriers, and
never a word said.

'Well,' said Sponge to Spraggon, between the whiffs of a cigar, as they rode together; 'it
wasn't so bad, was it?'

'Bad!--no,' squinted Jack, 'devilish good--for Puff, at least,' adding, 'I question he's had
a better this season.'

'Well, we are in luck,' observed Tom Washball, riding up and joining them;' we are in luck
to have a satisfactory thing with you great connoisseurs out.'

'A pretty thing enough,' replied Jack, 'pretty thing enough.'

'Oh, I don't mean to say it's equal to many we've had this season,' replied Washball; 'nothing
like the Boughton Hill day, nor yet the Hembury Forest one; but still, considering the meet
and the state of the country--'

'Hout! the country's good enough,' growled Jack, who hated Washball; adding, 'a good fox makes
any country good'; with which observation he sidled up to Sponge, leaving Washball in the middle
of the road.

'That reminds me,' said Jack, sotto voce to Sponge, 'that the crittur wants his run puffed,
and he thinks you can do it.'

'Me!' exclaimed Sponge, 'what's put that in his head?'

'Why, you see,' exclaimed Jack, 'the first time you came out with our hounds at Dundleton Tower,
you'll remember--or rather, the first time we saw you, when your horse ran away with you--somebody,
Fyle, I think it was, said you were a literary cove; and Puff, catchin' at the idea, has never
been able to get rid of it since: and the fact is, he'd like to be flattered--he'd be uncommonly
pleased if you were to "soft sawder" him handsomely.'

'Me!' exclaimed Sponge; 'bless your heart, man, I can't write anything--nothing fit to print,
at least.'

'Hout, fiddle!' retorted Spraggon, 'you can write as well as any other man; see what lots of
fellows write, and nobody ever finds fault.'

'But the spellin' bothers one,' replied Sponge, with a shake of his elbow and body, as if the
idea was quite out of the question.

'Hang the spellin',' muttered Jack, 'one can always borrow a dictionary; or let the man of
the paper--the editor, as they call him--smooth out the spellin'. You say at the end of your
letter, that your hands are cold, or your hand aches with holdin' a pullin' horse, and you'll
thank him to correct any inadvertencies--you needn't call them errors, you know.'

'But where's the use of it?' exclaimed Sponge; 'it'll do us no good, you know, praisin' Puff's
pack, or himself, or anything about him.'

'That's just the point,' said Jack, 'that's just the point. I can make it answer both our purposes,'
said he, with a nudge of the elbow, and an inside-out squint of his eyes.

'Oh, that's another matter,' replied our friend; 'if we can turn the thing to account, well
and good--I'm your man for a shy.'

'We can turn it to account,' rejoined Jack; 'we can turn it to account--at least I can; but
then you must do it. He wouldn't take it as any compliment from me. It's the stranger that
sees all things in their true lights. D'ye understand?' asked he eagerly.

'I twig,' replied Sponge.

'You write the account,' continued Jack, 'and I'll manage the rest.'

'You must help me,' observed Sponge.

'Certainly,' replied Jack; 'we'll do it together, and go halves in the plunder.'

'Humph,' mused Sponge: 'halves,' said he to himself. 'And what will you give me for my half?'
asked he.

'Give you!' exclaimed Jack, brightening up. 'Give you! Let me see,' continued he, pretending
to consider--'Puff's rich--Puff's a liberal fellow--Puff's a conceited beggar--mix it strong,'
said Jack, 'and I'll give you ten pounds.'

'Make it twelve,' replied Sponge, after a pause.

If Jack had said twelve. Sponge would have asked fourteen.

'Couldn't,' said Jack, with a shake of the head; 'it really isn't with (worth) the money.'

The two then rode on in silence for some little distance.

'I'll tell you what I'll do,' said Jack, spurring his horse, and trotting up the space that
the other had now shot ahead. 'I'll split the difference with you!'

'Well, give me the sov.,' said Sponge, holding out his hand for earnest.

'Why, I haven't a sov. upon me,' replied Jack; 'but, honour bright, I'll do what I say.'

'Give me eleven golden sovereigns for my chance,' repeated Sponge slowly, in order that there
might be no mistake.

'Eleven golden sovereigns for your chance,' repeated Jack.

'Done!' replied Sponge.

'Done!' repeated Jack.

'Let's jog on and do it at once while the thing's fresh in our minds,' said Jack, working his
horse into a trot.

Sponge did the same; and the grass-siding of Orlantire Parkwall favouring their design, they
increased the trot to a canter. They soon passed the park's bounds, and entering upon one of
those rarities--an unenclosed common, angled its limits so as to escape the side-bar, and turning
up Farningham Green lane, came out upon the Kingsworth and Swillingford turnpike within sight
of Hanby House.

'We'd better pull up and walk the horses gently in, p'raps,' observed Sponge, reining his in.

'Ah! I was only wantin' to get home before the rest,' observed Jack, pulling up too.

They then proceeded more leisurely together.

'We'd better get into one of our bedrooms to do it,' observed Jack, as they passed the lodge.
'Just so,' replied Sponge, adding, 'I dare say we shall want all the quiet we can get.'

'Oh no!' said Jack; 'the thing's simple enough--met at such a place--found at such another--killed
at so and so.'

'Well, I hope it will,' said Sponge, riding into the stable-yard, and resigning his steed to
the care of his groom.

Jack did the same by Sponge's other horse, which he had been riding, and in reply to Leather's
inquiry (who stood with his right hand ready, as if to shake hands with him), 'how the horse
had carried him?' replied:

'Cursed ill,' and stamped away without giving him anything.

'Ah, you're a gen'leman, you are,' muttered Leather, as he led the horse away. 'Now, come!'
exclaimed Jack to Sponge, 'come! let's get in before any of those bothersome fellows come';
adding, as he dived into a passage, 'I'll show you the back way.'

After passing a scullery, a root-house, and a spacious entrance-hall, upon a table in which
stood the perpetual beer-jug and bread-basket, a green baize door let them into the regions
of upper service, and passing the dashed carpets of the housekeeper's room and butler's pantry,
a red baize door let them into the far-side of the front entrance. Having deposited their hats
and whips, they bounded up the richly carpeted staircase to their rooms.

Hanby House, as we have already said, was splendidly furnished. All the grandeur did not run
to the entertaining rooms; but each particular apartment, from the state bedroom down to the
smallest bachelor snuggery, was replete with elegance and comfort.

Like many houses, however, the bedrooms possessed every imaginable luxury except boot-jacks
and pens that would write. In Sponge's room for instance, there were hip-baths, and foot-baths,
a shower-bath, and hot and cold baths adjoining, and mirrors innumerable; an eight-day mantel-clock,
by Moline of Geneva, that struck the hours, half-hours, and quarters: cut-glass toilet candlesticks,
with silver sconces; an elegant zebra-wood cabinet; also a beautiful davenport of zebra-wood,
with a plate-glass back, containing a pen rug worked on silver ground, an ebony match box,
a blue crystal, containing a sponge pen-wiper, a beautiful envelope-case, a white-cornelian
seal, with 'Hanby House' upon it, wax of all colours, papers of all textures, envelopes without
end--every imaginable requirement of correspondence except a pen that would write. There were
pens, indeed--there almost always are--but they were miserable apologies of things; some were
mere crow-quills--sort of cover-hacks of pens, while others were great, clumsy, heavy-heeled,
cart-horse sort of things, clotted up to the hocks with ink, or split all the way through--vexatious
apologies, that throw a person over just at the critical moment, when he has got his sheet
prepared and his ideas all ready to pour upon paper; then splut--splut--splutter goes the pen,
and away goes the train of thought. Bold is the man who undertakes to write his letters in
his bedroom with country-house pens. But, to our friends. Jack and Sponge slept next door to
each other; Sponge, as we have already said, occupying the state-room, with its canopy-topped
bedstead, carved and panelled sides, and elegant chintz curtains lined with pink, and massive
silk-and-bullion tassels; while Jack occupied the dressing-room, which was the state bedroom
in miniature, only a good deal more comfortable. The rooms communicated with double doors,
and our friends very soon effected a passage.

'Have you any 'baccy?' asked Jack, waddling in in his slippers, after having sucked off his
tops without the aid of a boot-jack.

'There's some in my jacket pocket,' replied Sponge, nodding to where it hung in the wardrobe;
'but it won't do to smoke here, will it?' asked he.

'Why not?' inquired Jack.

'Such a fine room,' replied Sponge, looking around.

'Oh, fine be hanged!' replied Jack, adding, as he made for the jacket, 'no place too fine for
smokin' in.'

Having helped himself to one of the best cigars, and lighted it, Jack composed himself cross-legged
in an easy, spring, stuffed chair, while Sponge fussed about among the writing implements,
watering and stirring up the clotted ink, and denouncing each pen in succession, as he gave
it the initiatory trial in writing the word 'Sponge.'

'Curse the pens!' exclaimed he, throwing the last bright crisp yellow thing from him in disgust.
'There's not one among 'em that can go!--all reg'larly stumped up.'

'Haven't you a penknife?' asked Jack, taking the cigar out of his mouth.

'Not I,' replied Sponge.

'Take a razor, then,' said Jack, who was good at an expedient.

'I'll take one of yours,' said Sponge, going into the dressing-room for one. 'Hang it, but
you're rather too sharp,' exclaimed Jack, with a shake of his head.

'It's more than your razor 'll be when I'm done with it,' replied Sponge.

Having at length, with the aid of Jack's razor, succeeded in getting a pen that would write,
Mr. Sponge selected a sheet of best cream-laid satin paper, and, taking a cane-bottomed chair,
placed himself at the table in an attitude for writing. Dipping the fine yellow pen in the
ink, he looked in Jack's face for an idea. Jack, who had now got well advanced in the cigar,
sat squinting through his spectacles at our scribe, though apparently looking at the top of
the bed.

'Well?' said Sponge, with a look of inquiry.

'Well,' replied Jack, in a tone of indifference.

'How shall I begin?' asked Sponge, twirling the pen between his fingers, and spluttering the
ink over the paper.

'Begin!' replied Jack, 'begin, oh, begin, just as you usually begin.'

'As a letter?' asked Sponge.

'I 'spose so,' replied Jack; 'how would you think?'

'Oh, I don't know,' replied Sponge. 'Will you try your hand?' added he, holding out the pen.

'Why, I'm busy just now, you see,' said he, pointing to his cigar, 'and that horse of yours'
(Jack had ridden the redoubtable chestnut, Multum-in-Parvo, who had gone very well in the company
of Hercules) pulled so confoundedly that I've almost lost the use of my fingers,' continued
he, working away as if he had got the cramp in both hands; 'but I'll prompt you,' added he,
'I'll prompt you.'

'Why don't you begin then?' asked Sponge.

'Begin!' exclaimed Jack, taking the cigar from his lips; 'begin!' repeated he, 'oh, I'll begin
directly--didn't know you were ready.'

Jack then threw himself back in his chair, and sticking out his little bandy legs, turned the
whites of his eyes up to the ceiling, as if lost in meditation.

'Begin,' said he, after a pause, 'begin, "This splendid pack had a stunning run."'

'But we must put what pack first,' observed Sponge, writing the words 'Mr. Puffington's hounds'
at the top of the paper. 'Well,' said he, writing on, 'this stunning pack had a splendid run.'

'No, not stunning pack,' growled Jack, 'splendid pack--"this splendid pack had a stunning run."'

'Stop!' exclaimed Sponge, writing it down; 'well,' said he looking up, 'I've got it.'

'This stunning pack had a splendid run,' repeated Jack, squinting away at the ceiling.

'I thought you said splendid pack,' observed Sponge.

'So I did,' replied Jack.

'You said stunning just now,' rejoined he.

'Ah, that was a slip of the tongue,' said Jack. 'This splendid pack had a stunning run,' repeated
Jack, appealing again to his cigar for inspiration; 'well, then,' said he, after a pause, 'you
just go on as usual, you know,' continued he, with a flourish of his great red hand.

'As usual!' exclaimed Sponge, 'you don't s'pose one's pen goes of itself.'

'Why, no,' replied Jack, knocking the ashes off his cigar on to the arabesque-patterned tapestry
carpet--'why, no, not exactly; but these things, you know, are a good deal matter of course;
just describe what you saw, you know, and butter Puff well, that's the main point.'

'But you forget,' replied Sponge, 'I don't know the country, I don't know the people, I don't
know anything at all about the run--I never once looked at the hounds.'

'That's nothin',' replied Jack, 'there'd be plenty like you in that respect. However,' continued
he, gathering himself up in his chair as if for an effort, 'you can say--let me see what you
can say--you can say, "this splendid pack had a stunning run from Hollyburn Hanger, the property
of its truly popular master, Mr. Puffington," or--stop,' said Jack, checking himself, 'say,
"the property of its truly popular and sporting master, Mr. Puffington." The cover's just as
much mine as it's his,' observed Jack; 'it belongs to old Sir Timothy Tensthemain, who's vegetating
at Boulogne-sur-Mer, but Puff says he'll buy it when it comes to the hammer, so we'll flatter
him by considering it his already, just as we flatter him by calling him a sportsman--sportsman!'
added Jack, with a sneer, 'he's just as much taste for the thing as a cow.'

'Well,' said Sponge, looking up, 'I've got "truly popular and sporting master, Mr. Puffington,"'
adding, 'hadn't we better say something about the meet and the grand spread here before we
begin with the run?'

'True,' replied Jack, after a long-drawn whiff and another adjustment of the end of his cigar;
'say that "a splendid field of well-appointed sportsmen"--'

'A splendid field of well-appointed sportsmen,' wrote Sponge.

'"Among whom we recognized several distinguished strangers and members of Lord Scamperdale's
hunt." That means you and I,' observed Jack.

'"Of Lord Scamperdale's hunt--that means you and I"'--read Sponge, as he wrote it.

'But you're not to put in that; you're not to write "that means you and I," my man,' observed Jack.

'Oh, I thought that was part of the sentence,' replied Sponge.

'No, no,' said Jack; 'I meant to say that you and I were the distinguished strangers and members
of Lord Scamperdale's hunt; but that's between ourselves, you know.'

'Good,' said Sponge; 'then I'll strike that out,' running his pen through the words 'that means
you and I.' 'Now get on,' said he, appealing to Jack, adding, 'we've a deal to do yet.'

'Say,' said Jack, '"after partaking of the well-known profuse and splendid hospitality of Hanby
House, they proceeded at once to Hollyburn Hanger, where a fine seasoned fox--though some said
he was a bag one--"'

'Did they?' exclaimed Sponge, adding, 'well, I thought he went away rather queerly.'

'Oh, it was only old Bung the brewer, who runs down every run he doesn't ride.'

'Well, never mind,' replied Sponge, 'we'll make the best of it, whatever it was'; writing away
as he spoke, and repeating the words 'bag one' as he penned them.

'"Broke away,"' continued Jack:

'"In view of the whole field,"' added Sponge. 'Just so,' assented Jack.

'"Every hound scoring to cry, and making the "--the--the--what d'ye call the thing?' asked Jack.

'Country,' suggested Sponge.

'No,' replied Jack, with a shake of the head.

'Hill and dale?' tried Sponge again.

'Welkin!' exclaimed Jack, hitting it off himself--'"makin' the welkin ring with their melody!"
makin' the welkin ring with their melody,' repeated he, with exultation.

'Capital!' observed Sponge, as he wrote it.

'Equal to Littlelegs,'[2] said Jack, squinting his eyes inside out.

'We'll make a grand thing of it,' observed Sponge.

'So we will,' replied Jack, adding, 'if we had but a book of po'try we'd weave in some lines
here. You haven't a book o' no sort with you that we could prig a little po'try from?' asked he.

'No,' replied Sponge thoughtfully. 'I'm afraid not; indeed, I'm sure not. I've got nothin'
but Mogg's Cab Fares.'

'Ah, that won't do,' observed Jack, with a shake of the head. 'But stay,' said he, 'there are
some books over yonder,' pointing to the top of an Indian cabinet, and squinting in a totally
different direction. 'Let's see what they are,' added he, rising, and stumping away to where
they stood. I Promessi Sposi, read he off the back of one. 'What can that mean! Ah, it's Latin,'
said he, opening the volume. Contes à ma Fille, read he off the back of another. 'That sounds
like racin',' observed he, opening the volume, 'it's Latin too,' said he, returning it. 'However,
never mind, we'll "sugar Puff's milk," as Mr. Bragg would say, without po'try.' So saying,
Mr. Spraggon stumped back to his easy-chair. 'Well, now,' said he, seating himself comfortably
in it, 'let's see where did we go first? "He broke at the lower end of the cover, and, crossing
the brook, made straight for Fleecyhaugh Water Meadows, over which," you may say, "there's
always a ravishing scent."' 'Have you got that?' asked Jack, after what he thought a sufficient
lapse of time for writing it.

'"Ravishing scent,"' repeated Sponge as he wrote the words.

'Very good,' said Jack, smoking and considering. '"From there,"' continued he, '"he made a
bit of a bend, as if inclining for the plantations at Winstead, but, changing his mind, he
faced the rising ground, and crossing over nearly the highest part of Shillington Hill, made
direct for the little village of Berrington Roothings below."'

'Stop!' exclaimed Sponge, 'I haven't got half that; I've only got to "the plantations at Winstead."'
Sponge made play with his pen, and presently held it up in token of being done.

'Well,' pondered Jack, 'there was a check there. Say,' continued he, addressing himself to
Sponge, '"Here the hounds came to a check."'

'Here the hounds came to a check,' wrote Sponge. 'Shall we say anything about distance?' asked he.

'P'raps we may as well,' replied Jack. 'We shall have to stretch it though a bit.'

'Let's see,' continued he; 'from the cover to Berrington Roothings over by Shillington Hill
and Fleecyhaugh Water Meadows will be--say, two miles and a half or three miles at the most--call
it four, well, four miles--say four miles in twelve minutes, twenty miles an hour,--too quick--four
miles in fifteen minutes, sixteen miles an hour; no--I think p'raps it'll be safer to lump
the distance at the end, and put in a place or two that nobody knows the name of, for the convenience
of those who were not out.'

'But those who were out will blab, won't they?' asked Sponge.

'Only to each other,' replied Jack. 'They'll all stand up for the truth of it as against strangers.
You need never be afraid of over-eggin' the puddin' for those that were out.'

'Well, then,' observed Sponge, looking at his paper to report progress, 'we've got the hounds
to a check. "Here the hounds came to a check,"' read he. 'Ah! now, then,' said Jack, in a tone
of disgust, 'we must say summut handsome of Bragg; and of all conceited animals under the sun,
he certainly is the most conceited. I never saw such a man! How that unfortunate, infatuated
master of his keeps him, I can't for the life of me imagine. Master! faith, Bragg's the master,'
continued Jack, who now began to foam at the mouth. 'He laughs at old Puff to his face; yet
it's wonderful the influence Bragg has over him. I really believe he has talked Puff into believing
that there's not such another huntsman under the sun, and really he's as great a muff as ever
walked. He can just dress the character, and that's all.' So saying Jack wiped his mouth on
the sleeve of his red coat preparatory to displaying Mr. Bragg upon paper.

'Well, now we are at fault,' said Jack, motioning Sponge to resume; 'we are at fault; now say,
"but Mr. Bragg, who had ridden gallantly on his favourite bay, as fine an animal as ever went,
though somewhat past mark of mouth--" Justly celebrated!' repeated Jack, spitting on the carpet
with a hawk of disgust; 'the conceited self-sufficient bantam-cock never made a cast worth
a copper, or rode a yard but when he thought somebody was looking at him.'

'I've got it,' said Sponge, who had plied his pen to good purpose.

'Justly celebrated,' repeated Jack, with a snort. 'Well, then, say, "Hitting off the scent
like a workman"--big H, you know, for a fresh sentence--"they went away again at score, and
passing by Moorlinch farm buildings, and threading the strip of plantation by Bexley Burn,
he crossed Silverbury Green, leaving Longford Hutch to the right, and passing straight on by
the gibbet at Harpen." Those are all bits of places, observed Jack, 'that none but the country
folks know' indeed, I shouldn't have known them but for shootin' over them when old Bloss lived
at the Green. Well, now, have you got all that?' asked he.

'"Gibbet at Harpen,"' read Sponge, as he wrote it.

'"Here, then, the gallant pack, breaking from scent to view,"' continued Jack, speaking slowly,
'"ran into their fox in the open close upon Mountnessing Wood, evidently his point from the
first, and into which a few more strides would have carried him. It was as fine a run as ever
was seen, and the hunting of the hounds was the admiration of all who saw it. The distance
couldn't have been less than"--than--what shall we say?' asked Jack.

'Ten, twelve miles, as the crow flies,' suggested Sponge.

'No,' said Jack,' that would be too much. Say ten'; adding, 'that will be four miles more than
it was.'

'Never mind,' said Sponge, as he wrote it; 'folks like good measure with runs as well as ribbons.'

'Now we must butter old Puff,' observed Spraggon.

'What can we say for him?' asked Sponge; 'that he never went off the road?'

'No, by Jove!' said Jack; 'you'll spoil all if you do that: better leave it alone altogether
than do that. Say, "the justly popular owner of this most celebrated pack, though riding good
fourteen stone" (he rides far more,' observed Jack; 'at least sixteen; but it'll please him
to make out that he can ride fourteen), "led the welters, on his famous chestnut horse, Tappey
Lappey."'

'What shall we say about the rest?' asked Sponge; 'Lumpleg, Slapp, Guano, and all those?'

'Oh, say nothin',' replied Jack; 'we've nothin' to do with nobody but Puff, and we couldn't
mention them without bringin' in our Flat Hat men too--Blossomnose, Fyle, Fossick, and so on.
Besides, it would spoil all to say that Guano was up--people would say directly it couldn't
have been much of a run if Guano was there. You might finish off,' observed Jack, after a pause,
'by saying that "after this truly brilliant affair, Mr. Puffington, like a thorough sportsman,
and one who never trashes his hounds unnecessarily--unlike some masters," you may say, "who
never know when to leave off" (that will be a hit at Old Scamp,' observed Jack, with a frightful
squint), '"returned to Hanby House, where a distinguished party of sportsmen--" or, say, "a
distinguished party of noblemen and gentlemen"--that'll please the ass more--"a large party
of noblemen and gentlemen were partaking of his"--his--what shall we call it?'

'Grub!' said Sponge.

'No, no--summut genteel--his--his--his--"splendid hospitality!"' concluded Jack, waving his
arm triumphantly over his head.

'Hard work, authorship!' exclaimed Sponge, as he finished writing, and threw down the pen.

'Oh, I don't know,' replied Jack, adding, 'I could go on for an hour.'

'Ah, you!--that's all very well,' replied Sponge, 'for you, squatting comfortably in your arm-chair:
but consider me, toiling with my pen, bothered with the writing, and craning at the spelling.'

'Never mind, we've done it,' replied Jack, adding, 'Puff'll be as pleased as Punch. We've polished
him off uncommon. That's just the sort of account to tickle the beggar. He'll go riding about
the country, showing it to everybody, and wondering who wrote it.'

'And what shall we send it to?--the Sporting Magazine, or what?' asked Sponge.

'Sporting Magazine!--no,' replied Jack; 'wouldn't be out till next year--quick's the word in
these railway times. Send it to a newspaper--Bell's Life, or one of the Swillingford papers.
Either of them would be glad to put it in.'

'I hope they'll be able to read it,' observed Sponge, looking at the blotched and scrawled
manuscript.

'Trust them for that,' replied Jack, adding, 'If there's any word that bothers them, they've
nothing to do but look in the dictionary--these folks all have dictionaries, wonderful fellows
for spellin'.'

Just then a little buttony page, in green and gold, came in to ask if there were any letters
for the post; and our friends hastily made up their packet, directing it to the editor of the
Swillingford 'GUIDE TO GLORY AND FREEMAN'S FRIEND'; words that in the hurried style of Mr.
Sponge's penmanship looked very like 'GUIDE TO GROG, AND FREEMAN'S FRIEND.'

CHAPTER XL

A LITERARY BLOOMER

Time was when the independent borough of Swillingford supported two newspapers, or rather two
editors, the editor of the Swillingford Patriot, and the editor of the Swillingford Guide to
Glory; but those were stirring days, when politics ran high and votes and corn commanded good
prices. The papers were never very prosperous concerns, as may be supposed when we say that
the circulation of the former at its best time was barely seven hundred, while that of the
latter never exceeded a thousand.

They were both started at the reform times, when the reduction of the stamp-duty brought so
many aspiring candidates for literary fame into the field, and for a time they were conducted
with all the bitter hostility that a contracted neighbourhood, and a constant crossing by the
editors of each other's path, could engender. The competition, too, for advertisements, was
keen, and the editors were continually taunting each other with taking them for the duty alone.
Æneas M'Quirter was the editor of the Patriot, and Felix Grimes that of the Guide to Glory.

M'Quirter, we need hardly say, was a Scotsman--a big, broad-shouldered Sawney--formidable in
'slacks,' as he called his trousers, and terrific in kilts; while Grimes was a native of Swillingford,
an ex-schoolmaster and parish clerk, and now an auctioneer, a hatter, a dyer and bleacher,
a paper-hanger, to which the wits said when he set up his paper, he added the trade of 'stainer.'

At first the rival editors carried on a 'war to the knife' sort of contest with one another,
each denouncing his adversary in terms of the most unmeasured severity. In this they were warmly
supported by a select knot of admirers, to whom they read their weekly effusions at their respective
'houses of call' the evening before publication. Gradually the fire of bitterness began to
pale, and the excitement of friends to die out; M'Quirter presently put forth a signal of distress.
To accommodate 'a large and influential number of its subscribers and patrons,' he determined
to publish on a Tuesday instead of on a Saturday as heretofore, whereupon Mr. Grimes, who had
never been able to fill a single sheet properly, now doubled his paper, lowered his charge
for advertisements, and hinted at his intention of publishing an occasional supplement.

However exciting it may be for a time, parties soon tire of carrying on a losing game for the
mere sake of abusing each other, and Æneas M'Quirter not being behind the generality of his
countrymen in 'canniness' and shrewdness of intellect, came to the conclusion that it was no
use doing so in this case, especially as the few remaining friends who still applauded would
be very sorry to subscribe anything towards his losses. He therefore very quietly negotiated
the sale of his paper to the rival editor, and having concluded a satisfactory bargain, he
placed the bulk of his property in the poke of his plaid, and walked out of Swillingford just
as if bent on taking the air, leaving Mr. Grimes in undisputed possession of both papers, who
forthwith commenced leading both Whig and Tory mind, the one on the Tuesday, the other on the
Saturday.

The pot and pipe companions of course saw how things were, but the majority of the readers
living in the country just continued to pin their faith to the printed declarations of their
oracles, while Grimes kept up the delusion of sincerity by every now and then fulminating a
tremendous denunciation against his trimming, vacillating, inconsistent opponent on the Tuesday,
and then retaliating with equal vigour upon himself on the Saturday. He wrote his own 'leaders,'
both Whig and Tory, the arguments of one side pointing out answers for the other. Sometimes
he led the way for a triumphant refutal, while the general tone of the articles was quite of
the 'upset a ministry' style. Indeed, Grimes strutted and swaggered as if the fate of the nation
rested with him.

The papers themselves were not very flourishing-looking concerns, the wide-spread paragraphs,
the staring type, the catching advertisements, forming a curious contrast to the close packing
of The Times. The 'Gutta Percha Company,' 'Locock's Female Pills,' 'Keating's Cough Lozenges,'
and the 'Triumphs of Medicine,' all with staring woodcuts and royal arms, occupied conspicuous
places in every paper. A new advertisement was a novelty. However, the two papers answered
a great deal better than either did singly, and any lack of matter was easily supplied from
the magazines and new books. In this department, indeed, in the department of elegant light
literature generally, Mr. Grimes was ably assisted by his eldest daughter, Lucy, a young lady
of a certain age--say liberal thirty--an ardent Bloomer--with a considerable taste for sentimental
poetry, with which she generally filled the poet's corner. This assistance enabled Grimes to
look after his auctioneering, bleaching, and paper-hanging concerns, and it so happened that
when the foregoing run arrived at the office he, having seen the next paper ready for press,
had gone to Mr. Vosper's, some ten miles off, to paper his drawing-room, consequently the duties
of deciding upon its publication devolved on the Bloomer. Now, she was a most refined, puritanical
young woman, full of sentiment and elegance, with a strong objection to what she considered
the inhumanities of the chase. At first she was for rejecting the article altogether, and had
it been a run with the Tinglebury Harriers, or even, we believe, with Lord Scamperdale's hounds,
she would have consigned it to the 'Balaam box,' but seeing it was with Mr. Puffington's hounds,
whose house they had papered, and who advertised with them, she condescended to read it; and
though her delicacy was shocked at encountering the word 'stunning' at the outset, and also
at the term 'ravishing scent' farther on, she nevertheless sent the manuscript to the compositors,
after making such alterations and corrections as she thought would fit it for eyes polite.
The consequence was that the article appeared in the following form, though whether all the
absurdities were owing to Miss Lucy's corrections, or the carelessness of the writer, or the
printers, had anything to do with it, we are not able to say. The errors, some of them arising
from the mere alteration or substitution of a letter, will strike a sporting more than a general
reader. Thus it appeared in the middle of the third sheet of the Swillingford Patriot:

    SPLENDID RUN WITH MR. PUFFINGTON'S HOUNDS.

    This splendid pack had a superb run from Hollyburn Hanger, the
    property of its truly popular and sporting owner, Mr. Puffington.
    A splendid field of well-appointed sportsmen, among whom we
    recognized several distinguished strangers, and members of Lord
    Scamperdale's hunt, were present. The distance
    could not have been less than ten miles as a cow goes. After this truly brilliant affair, Mr. Puffington,
    like a thorough sportsman, and one who never thrashes his hounds
    unnecessarily--unlike some masters who never know when to leave
    off--returned to Hanby House, where a distinguished party of
    noblemen and gentlemen partook of his splendid hospitality.

And the considerate Bloomer added of her own accord, 'We hope we shall have to record many
such runs in the imperishable columns of our paper.'

CHAPTER XLI

A DINNER AND A DEAL

Another grand dinner, on a more extensive scale than its predecessor, marked the day of this
glorious run.

'There's goin' to be a great blow-out,' observed Mr. Spraggon to Mr. Sponge, as, crossing his
hands and resting them on the crown of his head, he threw himself back in his easy-chair, to
recruit after the exertion of concocting the description of the run.

'How d'ye know?' asked Sponge.

'Saw by the dinner table as we passed,' replied Jack, adding, 'it reaches nearly to the door.'

'Indeed,' said Sponge, 'I wonder who's coming?'

'Most likely Guano again; indeed, I know he is, for I asked his groom if he was going home,
and he said no; and Lumpleg, you may be sure, and possibly old Blossomnose, Slapp, and, very
likely, young Pacey.'

'Are they chaps with any "go" in them?--shake their elbows, or anything of that sort?' asked
Sponge, working away as if he had the dice-box in his hand.

'I hardly know,' replied Jack thoughtfully. 'I hardly know. Young Pacey, I think, might be
made summut on; but his uncle, Major Screw, looks uncommon sharp after him, and he's a minor.'

'Would he pay?' asked Sponge, who, keeping as he said, 'no books,' was not inclined to do business
on 'tick.'

'Don't know,' replied Jack, squinting at half-cock; 'don't know--would depend a good deal,
I should say, upon how it was done. It's a deuced unhandsome world this. If one wins a trifle
of a youngster at cards, let it be ever so openly done, it's sure to say one's cheated him,
just because one happens to be a little older, as if age had anything to do with making the
cards come right.'

'It's an ungenerous world,' observed Sponge, 'and it's no use being abused for nothing. What
sort of a genius is Pacey? Is he inclined to go the pace?'

'Oh, quite,' replied Jack; 'his great desire is to be thought a sportsman.'

'A sportsman or a sporting man?' asked Sponge.

'W-h-o-y! I should say p'raps a sportin' man more than the sportsman,' replied Jack. 'He's
a great lumberin' lad, buttons his great stomach into a Newmarket cutaway, and carries a betting-book
in his breast pocket.'

'Oh, he's a bettor, is he!' exclaimed Sponge, brightening up.

'He's a raw poult of a chap,' replied Jack; 'just ready for anything--in a small way, at least--a
chap that's always offering two to one in half-crowns. He'll have money, though, and can't
be far off age. His father was a great spectacle-maker. You have heard of Pacey's spectacles?'

'Can't say as how I have,' replied Sponge, adding, 'they are more in your line than mine.'

The further consideration of the youth was interrupted by the entrance of a footman with hot
water, who announced that dinner would be ready in half an hour.

'Who's there coming?' asked Jack.

'Don't know 'xactly, sir,' replied the man; 'believe much the same party as yesterday, with
the addition of Mr. Pacey; Mr. Miller, of Newton; Mr. Fogo, of Bellevue; Mr. Brown, of the
Hill; and some others whose names I forget.'

'Is Major Screw coming?' asked Sponge.

'I rayther think not, sir. I think I heard Mr. Plummey, the butler, say he declined.'

'So much the better,' growled Jack, throwing off his purple-lapped coat in commencement of
his toilette. As the two dressed they discussed the point how Pacey might be done.

When our friends got downstairs it was evident there was a great spread. Two red-plushed footmen
stood on guard in the entrance, helping the arrivers out of their wraps, while a buzz of conversation
sounded through the partially opened drawing-room door, as Mr. Plummey stood, handle in hand,
to announce the names of the guests. Our friends, having the entrée, of course passed in as
at home, and mingled with the comers and stayers. Guest after guest quickly followed, almost
all making the same observation, namely, that it was a fine day for the time of year, and then
each sidled off, rubbing his hands, to the fire. Captain Guano monopolized about one-half of
it, like a Colossus of Rhodes, with a coat-lap under each arm. He seemed to think that, being
a stayer, he had more right to the fire than the mere diners.

Mr. Puffington moved briskly among the motley throng, now expatiating on the splendour of the
run, now hoping a friend was hungry, asking a third after his wife, and apologizing to a fourth
for not having called on his sister. Still his real thoughts were in the kitchen, and he kept
counting noses and looking anxiously at the timepiece. After the door had had a longer rest
than usual, Blossomnose at last cast up: 'Now we're all here surely!' thought he, counting
about; 'one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, eleven, twelve, thirteen,
thirteen, fourteen, myself fifteen--fifteen, fifteen, must be another--sixteen, eight couple
asked. Oh, that Pacey's wanting; always comes late, won't wait'--so saying, or rather thinking,
Mr. Puffington rang the bell and ordered dinner. Pacey then cast up.

He was just the sort of swaggering youth that Jack had described; a youth who thought money
would do everything in the world--make him a gentleman, in short. He came rolling into the
room, grinning as if he had done something fine in being late. He had both his great red hands
in his tight trouser pockets, and drew the right one out to favour his friends with it 'all hot.'

'I'm late, I guess,' said he, grinning round at the assembled guests, now dispersed in the
various attitudes of expectant eaters, some standing ready for a start, some half-sitting on
tables and sofa ends, others resigning themselves complacently to their chairs, abusing Mr.
Pacey and all dinner delayers.

'I'm late, I guess,' repeated he, as he now got navigated up to his host and held out his hand.

'Oh, never mind,' replied Puffington, accepting as little of the proffered paw as he could;
'never mind,' repeated he, adding, as he looked at the French clock on the mantelpiece now
chiming a quarter past six, 'I dare say I told you we dined at half-past five.'

'Dare say you did, old boy,' replied Pacey, kicking out his legs, and giving Puffington what
he meant for a friendly poke in the stomach, but which in reality nearly knocked his wind out;
'dare say you did, old boy, but so you did last time, if you remember, and deuce a bite did
I get before six; so I thought I'd be quits with you this--he--he--he--haw--haw--haw,' grinning
and staring about as if he had done something very clever.

Pacey was one of those deplorable beings--a country swell. Tomkins and Hopkins, the haberdashers
of Swillingford, never exhibited an ugly out-of-the-way neckcloth or waistcoat with the words
'patronized by the Prince,' 'very fashionable,' or 'quite the go,' upon them, but he immediately
adorned himself in one. On the present occasion he was attired in a wide-stretching, lace-tipped,
black Joinville, with recumbent gills, showing the heavy amplitude of his enormous jaws, while
the extreme scooping out of a collarless, flashy-buttoned, chain-daubed, black silk waistcoat,
with broad blue stripes, afforded an uninterrupted view of a costly embroidered shirt, the
view extending, indeed, up to a portion of his white satin 'forget-me-not' embroidered braces.
His coat was a broad-sterned, brass-buttoned blue, with pockets outside, and of course he wore
a pair of creaking highly varnished boots. He was apparently, about twenty; just about the
age when a youth thinks it fine to associate with men, and an age at which some men are not
above taking advantage of a youth. Perhaps he looked rather older than he was, for he was stiff
built and strong, with an ample crop of whiskers extending from his great red docken ears round
his harvest moon of a face. He was lumpy, and clumsy, and heavy all over. Having now got inducted,
he began to stare round the party, and first addressed our worthy friend Mr. Spraggon.

'Well, Sprag, how are you?' asked he.

'Well, Specs' (alluding to his father's trade), 'how are you?' replied Jack, with a growl,
to the evident satisfaction of the party, who seemed to regard Pacey as the common enemy.

Fortunately just at the moment Mr. Plummey restored harmony by announcing dinner; and after
the usual backing and retiring of mock modesty, Mr. Puffington said he would 'show them the
way,' when there was as great a rush to get in, to avoid the bugbear of sitting with their
backs to the fire, as there had been apparent disposition not to go at all. Notwithstanding
the unfavourable aspect of affairs, Mr. Spraggon placed himself next Mr. Pacey, who sat a good
way down the table, while Mr. Sponge occupied the post of honour by our host.

In accordance with the usual tactics of these sort of gentlemen, Spraggon and Sponge essayed
to be two--if not exactly strangers, at all events gentlemen with very little acquaintance.
Spraggon took advantage of a dead silence to call up the table to Mister Sponge to take wine;
a compliment that Sponge acknowledged the accordance of by a very low bow into his plate, and
by-and-by Mister Sponge 'Mistered' Mr. Spraggon to return the compliment.

'Do you know much of that--that--that--chap?' (he would have said snob if he'd thought it would
be safe) asked Pacey, as Sponge returned to still life after the first wine ceremony.

'No,' replied Spraggon, 'nor do I wish.'

'Great snob,' observed Pacey.

'Shocking,' assented Spraggon.

'He's got a good horse or two, though,' observed Pacey; 'I saw them on the road coming here
the other day.' Pacey, like many youngsters, professed to be a judge of horses, and thought
himself rather sharp at a deal.

'They are good horses,' replied Jack, with an emphasis on the good, adding, 'I'd be very glad
to have one of them.'

Mr. Spraggon then asked Mr. Pacey to take champagne, as the commencement of a better understanding.

The wine flowed freely, and the guests, particularly the fresh infusion, did ample justice
to it. The guests of the day before, having indulged somewhat freely, were more moderate at
first, though they seemed well inclined to do their best after they got their stomachs a little
restored. Spraggon could drink any given quantity at any time.

The conversation got brisker and brisker: and before the cloth was drawn there was a very general
clamour, in which all sorts of subjects seemed to be mixed--each man addressing himself to
his immediate neighbour; one talking of taxes--another of tares--a third, of hunting and the
system of kennel--a fourth, of the corn-laws--old Blossomnose, about tithes--Slapp, about timber
and water-jumping--Miller, about Collison's pills; and Guano, about anything that he could
get a word edged in about. Great, indeed, was the hubbub. Gradually, however, as the evening
advanced Pacey and Guano out-talked the rest, and at length Pacey got the noise pretty well
to himself. When anything definite could be extracted from the mass of confusion, he was expatiating
on steeple-chasing, hurdle-racing, weights for age, ons and offs clever--a sort of mixture
of hunting, racing, and 'Alken.'

Sponge cocked his ear, and sat on the watch, occasionally hazarding an observation, while Jack,
who was next Pacey, on the left, pretended to decry Sponge's judgement, asking sotto voce,
with a whiff through his nose, what such a Cockney as that could know about horses? What between
Jack's encouragement, and the inspiring influence of the bottle, aided by his own self-sufficiency,
Pacey began to look upon Sponge with anything but admiration; and at last it occurred to him
that he would be a very proper subject to, what he called, 'take the shine out of.'

'That isn't a bad-like nag, that chestnut of yours, for the wheeler of a coach, Mr. Sponge,'
exclaimed he, at the instigation of Spraggon, to our friend, producing, of course, a loud guffaw
from the party.

'No, he isn't,' replied Sponge coolly, adding, 'very like one, I should say.'

'Devilish good horse,' growled Jack in Pacey's ear.

'Oh, I dare say,' whispered Pacey, pretending to be scraping up the orange syrup in his plate,
adding, 'I'm only chaffing the beggar.'

'He looks solitary without the coach at his tail,' continued Pacey, looking up, and again addressing
Sponge up the table.

'He does,' affirmed Sponge, amidst the laughter of the party.

Pacey didn't know how to take this; whether as a 'sell' or a compliment to his own wit. He
sat for a few seconds grinning and staring like a fool; at last after gulping down a bumper
of claret, he again fixed his unmeaning green eyes upon Sponge, and exclaimed:

'I'll challenge your horse, Mr. Sponge.'

A burst of applause followed the announcement; for it was evident that amusement was in store.

'You'll w-h-a-w-t?' replied Sponge, staring, and pretending ignorance.

'I'll challenge your horse,' repeated Pacey with confidence, and in a tone that stopped the
lingering murmur of conversation, and fixed the attention of the company on himself.

'I don't understand you,' replied Sponge, pretending astonishment.

'Lor bless us! why, where have you lived all your life?' asked Pacey.

'Oh, partly in one place, and partly in another,' was the answer.

'I should think so,' replied Pacey, with a look of compassion, adding, in an undertone, 'a
good deal with your mother, I should think.'

'If you could get that horse at a moderate figure,' whispered Jack to his neighbour, and squinting
his eyes inside out as he spoke, 'he's well worth having.'

'The beggar won't sell him,' muttered Pacey, who was fonder of talking about buying horses
than of buying them.

'Oh yes, he will,' replied Jack; 'he didn't understand what you meant. Mr. Sponge,' said he,
addressing himself slowly and distinctly up the table to our hero--'Mr. Sponge, my friend Mr.
Pacey here challenges your chestnut.'

Sponge still stared in well-feigned astonishment.

'It's a custom we have in this country,' continued Jack, looking, as he thought, at Sponge,
but, in reality, squinting most frightfully at the sideboard.

'Do you mean he wants to buy him?' asked Sponge.

'Yes,' replied Jack confidently.

'No, I don't,' whispered Pacey, giving Jack a kick under the table. Pacey had not yet drunk
sufficient wine to be rash.

'Yes, yes,' replied Jack tartly, 'you do,' adding, in an undertone, 'leave it to me, man, and
I'll let you in for a good thing. Yes, Mr. Sponge,' continued he, addressing himself to our
hero, 'Mr. Pacey fancies the chestnut and challenges him.'

'Why doesn't he ask the price?' replied Sponge, who was always ready for a deal.

'Ah, the price must be left to a third party,' said Jack.' The principle of the thing is this,'
continued he, enlisting the aid of his fingers to illustrate his position: 'Mr. Pacey, here,'
said he, applying the forefinger of his right hand to the thumb of the left, looking earnestly
at Sponge, but in reality squinting up at the chandelier--'Mr. Pacey here challenges your horse
Multum-in-somethin'--I forget what you said you call him--but the nag I rode to-day. Well,
then,' continued Jack, 'you' (demonstrating Sponge by pressing his two forefingers together,
and holding them erect) 'accept the challenge, but can challenge anything Mr. Pacey has--a
horse, dog, gun--anything; and, having fixed on somethin' then a third party' (who Jack represented
by cocking up his thumb), 'any one you like to name, makes the award. Well, having agreed upon
that party' (Jack still cocking up the thumb to represent the arbitrator), 'he says, "Give
me money." The two then put, say half a crown or five shillin's each, into his hand, to which
the arbitrator adds the same sum for himself. That being done, the arbitrator says, "Hands
in pockets, gen'lemen."' (Jack diving his right hand up to the hilt in his own.) 'If this be
an award, Mr. Pacey's horse gives Mr. Sponge's horse so much--draw.' (Jack suiting the action
to the word, and laying his fist on the table.) 'If each person's hand contains money, it is
an award--it is a deal; and the arbitrator gets the half-crowns, or whatever it is, for his
trouble; so that, in course, he has a direct interest in makin' such an award as will lead
to a deal. Now do you understand?' continued Jack, addressing himself earnestly to Sponge.

'I think I do,' replied Sponge who had been at the game pretty often.

'Well, then,' continued Jack, reverting to his original position, 'my friend, Mr. Pacey here,
challenges your chestnut.'

'No, never mind,' muttered Pacey peevishly, in an undertone, with a frown on his face, giving
Jack a dig in the ribs with his elbow. 'Never mind,' repeated he; 'I don't care about it--I
don't want the horse.'

'But I do,' growled Jack, adding, in an undertone also, as he stooped for his napkin, 'don't
spoil sport, man; he's as good a horse as ever stepped; and if you'll challenge him, I'll stand
between you and danger.'

'But he may challenge something I don't want to part with,' observed Pacey.

'Then you've nothin' to do,' replied Jack, 'but bring up your hand without any money in it.'

'Ah! I forgot,' replied Pacey, who did not like not to appear what he called 'fly.' 'Well,
then, I challenge your chestnut!' exclaimed he, perking up, and shouting up the table to Sponge.

'Good!' replied our friend. 'I challenge your watch and chain, then,' looking at Pacey's chain-daubed
vest.

'Name me arbitrator,' muttered Jack, as he again stooped for his napkin.

'Who shall handicap us? Captain Guano, Mr. Lumpleg, or who?' asked Sponge.

'Suppose we say Spraggon?--he says he rode the horse to-day,' replied Pacey.

'Quite agreeable,' said Sponge.

'Now, Jack!' 'Now, Spraggon!' 'Now, old Solomon!' 'Now, Doctor Wiseman,' resounded from different
parts of the table.

Jack looked solemn; and diving both hands into his breeches' pockets, stuck out his legs extensively
before him.

'Give me money,' said he pompously. They each handed him half a crown; and Jack added a third
for himself. 'Mr. Pacey challenges Mr. Sponge's chestnut horse, and Mr. Sponge challenges Mr.
Pacey's gold watch,' observed Jack sententiously.

'Come, old Slowman, go on!' exclaimed Guano, adding, 'have you got no further than that?'

'Hurry no man's cattle,' replied Jack tartly, adding, 'you may keep a donkey yourself some day.'

'Mr. Pacey challenges Mr. Sponge's chestnut horse,' repeated Jack. 'How old is the chestnut,
Mr. Sponge?' added he, addressing himself to our friend.

'Upon my word I hardly know,' replied Sponge, 'he's past mark of mouth; but I think a hunter's
age has very little to do with his worth.'

'Who-y, that depends,' rejoined Jack, blowing out his cheeks, and looking as pompous as possible--'that
depends a good deal upon how he's been used in his youth.'

'He's about nine, I should say,' observed Sponge, pretending to have been calculating, though,
in reality, he knew nothing whatever about the horse's age. 'Say nine, or rising ten, and never
did a day's work till he was six.'

'Indeed!' said Jack, with an important bow, adding, 'being easy with them at the beginnin'
puts on a deal to the end. Perfect hunter, I s'pose?'

'Why, you can judge of that yourself,' replied Sponge.

'Perfect hunter, I should say,' rejoined Jack, 'and steady at his fences--don't know that I
ever rode a better fencer. Well,' continued he, having apparently pondered all that over in
his mind, 'I must trouble you to let me look at your ticker,' said he, turning short round
on his neighbour.

'There,' said Mr. Pacey, producing a fine flash watch from his waistcoat-pocket, and holding
it to Jack.

'The chain's included in the challenge, mind,' observed Sponge.

'In course,' said Jack; 'it's what the pawnbrokers call a watch with its appurts.' (Jack had
his watch at his uncle's and knew the terms exactly.)

'It's a repeater, mind,' observed Pacey, taking off the chain.

'The chain's heavy,' said Jack, running it up in his hand; 'and here's a pistol-key and a beautiful
pencil-case, with the Pacey crest and motto,' observed Jack, trying to decipher the latter.
'If it had been without the words, whatever they are,' said he, giving up the attempt, 'it
would have been worth more, but the gold's fine, and a new stone can easily be put in.'

He then pulled an old hunting-card out of his pocket, and proceeded to make sundry calculations
and estimates in pencil on the back.

'Well, now,' said he, at length, looking up, 'I should say, such a watch as that and appurts,'
holding them up, 'couldn't be bought in a shop under eight-and-twenty pund.'

'It cost five-and-thirty,' observed Mr. Pacey.

'Did it!' rejoined Jack, adding, 'then you were done.'

Jack then proceeded to do a little more arithmetic, during which process Mr. Puffington passed
the wine and gave as a toast--'Success to the handicap.'

'Well,' at length said Jack, having apparently struck a balance, 'hands in pocket, gen'lemen.
If this is an award, Mr. Pacey's gold watch and appurts gives Mr. Sponge's chestnut horse seventy
golden sovereigns. Show money,' whispered Jack to Pacey, adding, 'I'll stand the shot.'

'Stop!' roared Guano, 'do either of you sport your hand?'

'Yes, I do,' replied Mr. Pacey coolly.

'And I,' said Mr. Sponge.

'Hold hard, then, gen'lemen!' roared Jack, getting excited, and beginning to foam. 'Hold hard,
gen'lemen!' repeated he, just as he was in the habit of roaring at the troublesome customers
in Lord Scamperdale's field; 'Mr. Pacey and Mr. Sponge both sport their hands.'

'I'll lay a guinea Pacey doesn't hold money,' exclaimed Guano.

'Done!' exclaimed Parson Blossomnose.

'I'll bet it does,' observed Charley Slapp.

'I'll take you,' replied Mr. Miller.

Then the hubbub of betting commenced, and raged with fury for a short time; some betting sovereigns,
some half-sovereigns, other half-crowns and shillings, as to whether the hands of one or both
held money.

Givers and takers being at length accommodated, perfect silence at length reigned, and all
eyes turned upon the double fists of the respective champions.

Jack having adjusted his great tortoiseshell-rimmed spectacles, and put on a most consequential
air, inquired, like a gambling-house keeper, if they were 'All done'--had all 'made their game?'
And 'Yes! yes! yes!' resounded from all quarters.

'Then, gen'lemen,' said Jack, addressing Pacey and Sponge, who still kept their closed hands
on the table, 'show!'

At the word, their hands opened, and each held money.

'A deal! a deal! a deal!' resounded through the room, accompanied with clapping of hands, thumping
of the table, and dancing of glasses. 'You owe me a guinea,' exclaimed one. 'I want half a
sovereign of you,' roared another. 'Here's my half-crown,' said a third, handing one across
the table to the fortunate winner. A general settlement took place, in the midst of which the
'watch and appurts' were handed to Mr. Sponge.

'We'll drink Mr. Pacey's health,' said Mr. Puffington, helping himself to a bumper, and passing
the lately replenished decanters. 'He's done the thing like a sportsman, and deserves to have
luck with his deal.

The excitement seemed to have given fresh zest to the wine, and those who had been shirking,
or filling on heel-taps, now began filling bumpers, while those who always filled bumpers now
took back hands.

There is something about horse-dealing that seems to interest every one. Conversation took
a brisk turn, and nothing but the darkness of the night prevented their having the horse out
and trying him. Pacey wanted him brought into the dining-room, à la Briggs, but Puff wouldn't
stand that. The transfer seemed to have invested the animal with supernatural charms, and those
who in general cared nothing about horses wanted to have a sight of him.

