On the train, fair women, with tottering babies on each arm, stopped their haste and scrutinized
the children of absent mothers. Large men, with heavy bundles in their hands, halted near by,
and riveted their glassy blue eyes upon us.

I sank deep into the corner of my seat, for I resented being watched. Directly in front of
me, children who were no larger than I hung themselves upon the backs of their seats, with
their bold white faces toward me. Sometimes they took their forefingers out of their mouths
and pointed at my moccasined feet. Their mothers, instead of reproving such rude curiosity,
looked closely at me, and attracted their children's further notice to my blanket. This embarrassed
me, and kept me constantly on the verge of tears.

I sat perfectly still, with my eyes downcast, daring only now and then to shoot long glances
around me. Chancing to turn to the window at my side, I was quite breathless upon seeing one
familiar object. It was the telegraph pole which strode by at short paces. Very near my mother's
dwelling, along the edge of a road thickly bordered with wild sunflowers, some poles like these
had been planted by white men. Often I had stopped, on my way down the road, to hold my ear
against the pole, and, hearing its low moaning, I used to wonder what the paleface had done
to hurt it. Now I sat watching for each pole that glided by to be the last one.

In this way I had forgotten my uncomfortable surroundings, when I heard one of my comrades
call out my name. I saw the missionary standing very near, tossing candies and gums into our
midst. This amused us all, and we tried to see who could catch the most of the sweetmeats.

Though we rode several days inside of the iron horse, I do not recall a single thing about
our luncheons.

It was night when we reached the school grounds. The lights from the windows of the large buildings
fell upon some of the icicled trees that stood beneath them. We were led toward an open door,
where the brightness of the lights within flooded out over the heads of the excited palefaces
who blocked our way. My body trembled more from fear than from the snow I trod upon.

Entering the house, I stood close against the wall. The strong glaring light in the large whitewashed
room dazzled my eyes. The noisy hurrying of hard shoes upon a bare wooden floor increased the
whirring in my ears. My only safety seemed to be in keeping next to the wall. As I was wondering
in which direction to escape from all this confusion, two warm hands grasped me firmly, and
in the same moment I was tossed high in midair. A rosy-cheeked paleface woman caught me in
her arms. I was both frightened and insulted by such trifling. I stared into her eyes, wishing
her to let me stand on my own feet, but she jumped me up and down with increasing enthusiasm.
My mother had never made a plaything of her wee daughter. Remembering this I began to cry aloud.

They misunderstood the cause of my tears, and placed me at a white table loaded with food.
There our party were united again. As I did not hush my crying, one of the older ones whispered
to me, "Wait until you are alone in the night."

It was very little I could swallow besides my sobs, that evening.

"Oh, I want my mother and my brother Dawée! I want to go to my aunt!" I pleaded; but the ears
of the palefaces could not hear me.

From the table we were taken along an upward incline of wooden boxes, which I learned afterward
to call a stairway. At the top was a quiet hall, dimly lighted. Many narrow beds were in one
straight line down the entire length of the wall. In them lay sleeping brown faces, which peeped
just out of the coverings. I was tucked into bed with one of the tall girls, because she talked
to me in my mother tongue and seemed to soothe me.

I had arrived in the wonderful land of rosy skies, but I was not happy, as I had thought I
should be. My long travel and the bewildering sights had exhausted me. I fell asleep, heaving
deep, tired sobs. My tears were left to dry themselves in streaks, because neither my aunt
nor my mother was near to wipe them away.

II.

THE CUTTING OF MY LONG HAIR.

The first day in the land of apples was a bitter-cold one; for the snow still covered the ground,
and the trees were bare. A large bell rang for breakfast, its loud metallic voice crashing
through the belfry overhead and into our sensitive ears. The annoying clatter of shoes on bare
floors gave us no peace. The constant clash of harsh noises, with an undercurrent of many voices
murmuring an unknown tongue, made a bedlam within which I was securely tied. And though my
spirit tore itself in struggling for its lost freedom, all was useless.

A paleface woman, with white hair, came up after us. We were placed in a line of girls who
were marching into the dining room. These were Indian girls, in stiff shoes and closely clinging
dresses. The small girls wore sleeved aprons and shingled hair. As I walked noiselessly in
my soft moccasins, I felt like sinking to the floor, for my blanket had been stripped from
my shoulders. I looked hard at the Indian girls, who seemed not to care that they were even
more immodestly dressed than I, in their tightly fitting clothes. While we marched in, the
boys entered at an opposite door. I watched for the three young braves who came in our party.
I spied them in the rear ranks, looking as uncomfortable as I felt. A small bell was tapped,
and each of the pupils drew a chair from under the table. Supposing this act meant they were
to be seated, I pulled out mine and at once slipped into it from one side. But when I turned
my head, I saw that I was the only one seated, and all the rest at our table remained standing.
Just as I began to rise, looking shyly around to see how chairs were to be used, a second bell
was sounded. All were seated at last, and I had to crawl back into my chair again. I heard
a man's voice at one end of the hall, and I looked around to see him. But all the others hung
their heads over their plates. As I glanced at the long chain of tables, I caught the eyes
of a paleface woman upon me. Immediately I dropped my eyes, wondering why I was so keenly watched
by the strange woman. The man ceased his mutterings, and then a third bell was tapped. Every
one picked up his knife and fork and began eating. I began crying instead, for by this time
I was afraid to venture anything more.

But this eating by formula was not the hardest trial in that first day. Late in the morning,
my friend Judéwin gave me a terrible warning. Judéwin knew a few words of English; and she
had overheard the paleface woman talk about cutting our long, heavy hair. Our mothers had taught
us that only unskilled warriors who were captured had their hair shingled by the enemy. Among
our people, short hair was worn by mourners, and shingled hair by cowards!

We discussed our fate some moments, and when Judéwin said, "We have to submit, because they
are strong," I rebelled.

"No, I will not submit! I will struggle first!" I answered.

I watched my chance, and when no one noticed, I disappeared. I crept up the stairs as quietly
as I could in my squeaking shoes,--my moccasins had been exchanged for shoes. Along the hall
I passed, without knowing whither I was going. Turning aside to an open door, I found a large
room with three white beds in it. The windows were covered with dark green curtains, which
made the room very dim. Thankful that no one was there, I directed my steps toward the corner
farthest from the door. On my hands and knees I crawled under the bed, and cuddled myself in
the dark corner.

From my hiding place I peered out, shuddering with fear whenever I heard footsteps near by.
Though in the hall loud voices were calling my name, and I knew that even Judéwin was searching
for me, I did not open my mouth to answer. 

The wisest persons have experienced painful tragedies but have faced them bravely. It is for this reason
that they value life more because they have overcome many oppositions. to the intellectuals,
nothing seems rarer today than hypocrisy.

I suspect that our culture is not conducive for this.

Hypocrisy belongs to an age where faith was strong, and it was necessary not to display a different
belief, so he has to let go of his own. Today, it is more important to be honest about our faith.
 People had stared at me. I had
been tossed about in the air like a wooden puppet. And now my long hair was shingled like a
coward's! In my anguish I moaned for my mother, but no one came to comfort me. Not a soul reasoned
quietly with me, as my own mother used to do; for now I was only one of many little animals
driven by a herder.

III.

THE SNOW EPISODE.

A short time after our arrival we three Dakotas were playing in the snowdrift. We were all
still deaf to the English language, excepting Judéwin, who always heard such puzzling things.
One morning we learned through her ears that we were forbidden to fall lengthwise in the snow,
as we had been doing, to see our own impressions. However, before many hours we had forgotten
the order, and were having great sport in the snow, when a shrill voice called us. Looking
up, we saw an imperative hand beckoning us into the house. We shook the snow off ourselves,
and started toward the woman as slowly as we dared.

Judéwin said: "Now the paleface is angry with us. She is going to punish us for falling into
the snow. If she looks straight into your eyes and talks loudly, you must wait until she stops.
Then, after a tiny pause, say, 'No.'" The rest of the way we practiced upon the little word "no."

As it happened, Thowin was summoned to judgment first. The door shut behind her with a click.

Judéwin and I stood silently listening at the keyhole. The paleface woman talked in very severe
tones. Her words fell from her lips like crackling embers, and her inflection ran up like the
small end of a switch. I understood her voice better than the things she was saying. I was
certain we had made her very impatient with us. Judéwin heard enough of the words to realize
all too late that she had taught us the wrong reply.

"Oh, poor Thowin!" she gasped, as she put both hands over her ears.

Just then I heard Thowin's tremulous answer, "No."

With an angry exclamation, the woman gave her a hard spanking. Then she stopped to say something.
Judéwin said it was this: "Are you going to obey my word the next time?"

Thowin answered again with the only word at her command, "No."

This time the woman meant her blows to smart, for the poor frightened girl shrieked at the
top of her voice. In the midst of the whipping the blows ceased abruptly, and the woman asked
another question: "Are you going to fall in the snow again?"

Thowin gave her bad passwood another trial. We heard her say feebly, "No! No!"

With this the woman hid away her half-worn slipper, and led the child out, stroking her black
shorn head. Perhaps it occurred to her that brute force is not the solution for such a problem.
She did nothing to Judéwin nor to me. She only returned to us our unhappy comrade, and left
us alone in the room.

During the first two or three seasons misunderstandings as ridiculous as this one of the snow
episode frequently took place, bringing unjustifiable frights and punishments into our little
lives.

Within a year I was able to express myself somewhat in broken English. As soon as I comprehended
a part of what was said and done, a mischievous spirit of revenge possessed me. One day I was
called in from my play for some misconduct. I had disregarded a rule which seemed to me very
needlessly binding. I was sent into the kitchen to mash the turnips for dinner. It was noon,
and steaming dishes were hastily carried into the dining-room. I hated turnips, and their odor
which came from the brown jar was offensive to me. With fire in my heart, I took the wooden
tool that the paleface woman held out to me. I stood upon a step, and, grasping the handle
with both hands, I bent in hot rage over the turnips. I worked my vengeance upon them. All
were so busily occupied that no one noticed me. I saw that the turnips were in a pulp, and
that further beating could not improve them; but the order was, "Mash these turnips," and mash
them I would! I renewed my energy; and as I sent the masher into the bottom of the jar, I felt
a satisfying sensation that the weight of my body had gone into it.

Just here a paleface woman came up to my table. As she looked into the jar, she shoved my hands
roughly aside. I stood fearless and angry. She placed her red hands upon the rim of the jar.
Then she gave one lift and stride away from the table. But lo! the pulpy contents fell through
the crumbled bottom to the floor I She spared me no scolding phrases that I had earned. I did
not heed them. I felt triumphant in my revenge, though deep within me I was a wee bit sorry
to have broken the jar.

As I sat eating my dinner, and saw that no turnips were served, I whooped in my heart for having
once asserted the rebellion within me.

IV.

THE DEVIL.

Among the legends the old warriors used to tell me were many stories of evil spirits. But I
was taught to fear them no more than those who stalked about in material guise. I never knew
there was an insolent chieftain among the bad spirits, who dared to array his forces against
the Great Spirit, until I heard this white man's legend from a paleface woman.

Out of a large book she showed me a picture of the white man's devil. I looked in horror upon
the strong claws that grew out of his fur-covered fingers. His feet were like his hands. Trailing
at his heels was a scaly tail tipped with a serpent's open jaws. His face was a patchwork:
he had bearded cheeks, like some I had seen palefaces wear; his nose was an eagle's bill, and
his sharp-pointed ears were pricked up like those of a sly fox. Above them a pair of cow's
horns curved upward. I trembled with awe, and my heart throbbed in my throat, as I looked at
the king of evil spirits. Then I heard the paleface woman say that this terrible creature roamed
loose in the world, and that little girls who disobeyed school regulations were to be tortured
by him.

That night I dreamt about this evil divinity. Once again I seemed to be in my mother's cottage.
An Indian woman had come to visit my mother. On opposite sides of the kitchen stove, which
stood in the center of the small house, my mother and her guest were seated in straight-backed
chairs. I played with a train of empty spools hitched together on a string. It was night, and
the wick burned feebly. Suddenly I heard some one turn our door-knob from without.

My mother and the woman hushed their talk, and both looked toward the door. It opened gradually.
I waited behind the stove. The hinges squeaked as the door was slowly, very slowly pushed inward.

Then in rushed the devil! He was tall! He looked exactly like the picture I had seen of him
in the white man's papers. He did not speak to my mother, because he did not know the Indian
language, but his glittering yellow eyes were fastened upon me. He took long strides around
the stove, passing behind the woman's chair. I threw down my spools, and ran to my mother.
He did not fear her, but followed closely after me. Then I ran round and round the stove, crying
aloud for help. But my mother and the woman seemed not to know my danger. They sat still, looking
quietly upon the devil's chase after me. At last I grew dizzy. My head revolved as on a hidden
pivot. My knees became numb, and doubled under my weight like a pair of knife blades without
a spring. Beside my mother's chair I fell in a heap. Just as the devil stooped over me with
outstretched claws my mother awoke from her quiet indifference, and lifted me on her lap. Whereupon
the devil vanished, and I was awake.

On the following morning I took my revenge upon the devil. Stealing into the room where a wall
of shelves was filled with books, I drew forth The Stories of the Bible. With a broken slate
pencil I carried in my apron pocket, I began by scratching out his wicked eyes. A few moments
later, when I was ready to leave the room, there was a ragged hole in the page where the picture
of the devil had once been.

V.

IRON ROUTINE

A loud-clamoring bell awakened us at half-past six in the cold winter mornings. From happy
dreams of Western rolling lands and unlassoed freedom we tumbled out upon chilly bare floors
back again into a paleface day. We had short time to jump into our shoes and clothes, and wet
our eyes with icy water, before a small hand bell was vigorously rung for roll call.

There were too many drowsy children and too numerous orders for the day to waste a moment in
any apology to nature for giving her children such a shock in the early morning. We rushed
downstairs, bounding over two high steps at a time, to land in the assembly room.

A paleface woman, with a yellow-covered roll book open on her arm and a gnawed pencil in her
hand, appeared at the door. Her small, tired face was coldly lighted with a pair of large gray
eyes.

She stood still in a halo of authority, while over the rim of her spectacles her eyes pried
nervously about the room. Having glanced at her long list of names and called out the first
one, she tossed up her chin and peered through the crystals of her spectacles to make sure
of the answer "Here."

Relentlessly her pencil black-marked our daily records if we were not present to respond to
our names, and no chum of ours had done it successfully for us. No matter if a dull headache
or the painful cough of slow consumption had delayed the absentee, there was only time enough
to mark the tardiness. It was next to impossible to leave the iron routine after the civilizing
machine had once begun its day's buzzing; and as it was inbred in me to suffer in silence rather
than to appeal to the ears of one whose open eyes could not see my pain, I have many times
trudged in the day's harness heavy-footed, like a dumb sick brute.

Once I lost a dear classmate. I remember well how she used to mope along at my side, until
one morning she could not raise her head from her pillow. At her deathbed I stood weeping,
as the paleface woman sat near her moistening the dry lips. Among the folds of the bedclothes
I saw the open pages of the white man's Bible. The dying Indian girl talked disconnectedly
of Jesus the Christ and the paleface who was cooling her swollen hands and feet.

I grew bitter, and censured the woman for cruel neglect of our physical ills. I despised the
pencils that moved automatically, and the one teaspoon which dealt out, from a large bottle,
healing to a row of variously ailing Indian children. I blamed the hard-working, well-meaning,
ignorant woman who was inculcating in our hearts her superstitious ideas. Though I was sullen
in all my little troubles, as soon as I felt better I was ready again to smile upon the cruel
woman. Within a week I was again actively testing the chains which tightly bound my individuality
like a mummy for burial.

