He had not merely discovered a country, he had discovered a world.  He had not merely made
a profitable expedition; he had brought the promise of untold wealth to the kingdom of Spain.
He had not merely made himself the master of savage tribes; he had conquered the supernatural,
and overcome for ever those powers of darkness that had been thought to brood over the vast
Atlantic.  He had sailed away in obscurity, he had returned in fame; he had departed under
a cloud of scepticism and ridicule, he had come again in power and glory.  He had sailed from
Palos as a seeker after hidden wealth, hidden knowledge; he returned as teacher, discoverer,
benefactor.  The whole of Spain rang with his fame, and the echoes of it spread to Portugal,
France, England, Germany, and Italy; and it reached the ears of his own family, who had now
left the Vico Dritto di Ponticello in Genoa and were living at Savona.

His life ashore in the first weeks following his return was a succession of triumphs and ceremonials.
His first care on landing had been to go with the whole of his crew to the church of Saint
George, where a Te Deum was sung in honour of his return; and afterwards to perform those vows
that he had made at sea in the hour of danger.  There was a certain amount of business to transact
at Palos in connection with the paying of the ships' crews, writing of reports to the Sovereigns,
and so forth; and it is likely that he stayed with his friends at the monastery of La Rabida
while this was being done.  The Court was at Barcelona; and it was probably only a sense of
his own great dignity and importance that prevented Christopher from setting off on the long
journey immediately. But he who had made so many pilgrimages to Court as a suitor could revel
in a position that made it possible for him to hang back, and to be pressed and invited; and
so when his business at Palos was finished he sent a messenger with his letters and reports
to Barcelona, and himself, with his crew and his Indians and all his trophies, departed for
Seville, where he arrived on Palm Sunday.

His entrance into that city was only a foretaste of the glory in which he was to move across
the whole of Spain.  He was met at the gates of the city by a squadron of cavalry commanded
by an envoy sent by Queen Isabella; and a procession was formed of members of the crew carrying
parrots, alive and stuffed, fruits, vegetables, and various other products of the New World.

In a prominent place came the Indians, or rather four of them, for one had died on the day
they entered Palos and three were too ill to leave that town; but the ones that took part in
the procession got all the more attention and admiration.  The streets of Seville were crowded;
crowded also were the windows, balconies, and roofs.  The Admiral was entertained at the house
of the Count of Cifuentes, where his little museum of dead and live curiosities was also accommodated,
and where certain favoured visitors were admitted to view it.  His two sons, Diego and Ferdinand,
were sent from Cordova to join him; and perhaps he found time to visit Beatriz, although there
is no record of his having been to Cordova or of her having come to Seville.

Meanwhile his letters and messengers to the King and Queen had produced their due effect. 
The almost incredible had come to pass, and they saw themselves the monarchs not merely of
Spain, but of a new Empire that might be as vast as Europe and Africa together.  On the 30th
of March they despatched a special messenger with a letter to Columbus, whose eyes must have
sparkled and heart expanded when he read the superscription: "From the King and Queen to Don
Christoval Colon, their Admiral of the Ocean Seas and Viceroy and Governor of the Islands discovered
in the Indies."  No lack of titles and dignities now!  Their Majesties express a profound sense
of his ability and distinction, of the greatness of his services to them, to the Church, and
to God Himself.  They hope that he will lose no time, but repair to Barcelona immediately,
so that they can have the pleasure of hearing from his own lips an account of his wonderful
expedition, and of discussing with him the preparations that must immediately be set on foot
to fit out a new one.  On receiving this letter Christopher immediately drew up a list of what
he thought necessary for the new expedition and, collecting all his retinue and his museum
of specimens, started by road for Barcelona.

Every one in Spain had by this time heard more or less exaggerated accounts of the discoveries,
and the excitement in the towns and villages through which he passed was extreme.  Wherever
he went he was greeted and feasted like a king returning from victorious wars; the people lined
the streets of the towns and villages, and hung out banners, and gazed their fill at the Indians
and at the strange sun-burned faces of the crew.  At Barcelona, where they arrived towards
the end of April, the climax of these glittering dignities was reached.  When the King and
Queen heard that Columbus was approaching the town they had their throne prepared under a magnificent
pavilion, and in the hot sunshine of that April day they sat and waited the--coming of the
great man.  A glittering troop of cavalry had been sent out to meet him, and at the gates of
the town a procession was formed similar to that at Seville.  He had now six natives with him,
who occupied an important place in the procession; sailors also, who carried baskets of fruit
and vegetables from Espanola, with stuffed birds and animals, and a monstrous lizard held aloft
on a stick. The Indians were duly decked out in all their paint and feathers; but if they were
a wonder and marvel to the people of Spain, what must Spain have been to them with its great
buildings and cities, its carriages and horses, its glittering dresses and armours, its splendour
and luxury! We have no record of what the Indians thought, only of what the crowd thought who
gaped upon them and upon the gaudy parrots that screeched and fluttered also in the procession.
Columbus came riding on horseback, as befitted a great Admiral and Viceroy, surrounded by his
pilots and principal officers; and followed by men bearing golden belts, golden masks, nuggets
of gold and dust of gold, and preceded by heralds, pursuivants, and mace-bearers.

What a return for the man who three years before had been pointed at and laughed to scorn in
this same brilliant society!  The crowds pressed so closely that the procession could hardly
get through the streets; the whole population was there to witness it; and the windows and
balconies and roofs of the houses, as well as the streets themselves, were thronged with a
gaily dressed and wildly excited crowd.  At length the procession reaches the presence of the
King and Queen and, crowning and unprecedented honour!  as the Admiral comes before them Ferdinand
and Isabella rise to greet him.  Under their own royal canopy a seat is waiting for him; and
when he has made his ceremonial greeting he is invited to sit in their presence and give an
account of his voyage.

He is fully equal to the situation; settles down to do himself and his subject justice; begins,
we may be sure, with a preamble about the providence of God and its wisdom and consistency
in preserving the narrator and preparing his life for this great deed; putting in a deal of
scientific talk which had in truth nothing to do with the event, but was always applied to
it in Columbus's writings from this date onwards; and going on to describe the voyage, the
sea of weeds, the landfall, his intercourse with the natives, their aptitude for labour and
Christianity, and the hopes he has of their early conversion to the Catholic Church. And then
follows a long description of the wonderful climate, "like May in Andalusia," the noble rivers,
and gorgeous scenery, the trees and fruits and flowers and singing birds; the spices and the
cotton; and chief of all, the vast stores of gold and pearls of which the Admiral had brought
home specimens.  At various stages in his narrative he produces illustrations; now a root of
rhubarb or allspice; now a raw nugget of gold; now a piece of gold laboured into a mask or
belt; now a native decorated with the barbaric ornaments that were the fashion in Espanola.
These things, says Columbus, are mere first-fruits of the harvest that is to come; the things
which he, like the dove that had flown across the sea from the Ark and brought back an olive
leaf in its mouth, has brought back across the stormy seas to that Ark of civilisation from
which he had flown forth.

It was to Columbus an opportunity of stretching his visionary wings and creating with pompous
words and images a great halo round himself of dignity and wonder and divine distinction,--an
opportunity such as he loved, and such as he never failed to make use of.

The Sovereigns were delighted and profoundly impressed.  Columbus wound up his address with
an eloquent peroration concerning the glory to Christendom of these new discoveries; and there
followed an impressive silence, during which the Sovereigns sank on their knees and raised
hands and tearful eyes to heaven, an example in which they were followed by the whole of the
assembly; and an appropriate gesture enough, seeing what was to come of it all.  The choir
of the Chapel Royal sang a solemn Te Deum on the spot; and the Sovereigns and nobles, bishops,
archbishops, grandees, hidalgos, chamberlains, treasurers, chancellors and other courtiers,
being exhausted by these emotions, retired to dinner.

During his stay at Barcelona Columbus was the guest of the Cardinal-Archbishop of Toledo, and
moved thus in an atmosphere of combined temporal and spiritual dignity such as his soul loved.
Very agreeable indeed to him was the honour shown to him at this time.  Deep down in his heart
there was a secret nerve of pride and vanity which throughout his life hitherto had been continually
mortified and wounded; but he was able now to indulge his appetite for outward pomp and honour
as much as he pleased.  When King Ferdinand went out to ride Columbus would be seen riding
on one side of him, the young Prince John riding on the other side; and everywhere, when he
moved among the respectful and admiring throng, his grave face was seen to be wreathed in complacent
smiles.  His hair, which had turned white soon after he was thirty, gave him a dignified and
almost venerable appearance, although he was only in his forty-third year; and combined with
his handsome and commanding presence to excite immense enthusiasm among the Spaniards.  They
forgot for the moment what they had formerly remembered and were to remember again--that he
was a foreigner, an Italian, a man of no family and of poor origin. They saw in him the figure-head
of a new empire and a new glory, an emblem of power and riches, of the dominion which their
proud souls loved; and so there beamed upon him the brief fickle sunshine of their smiles and
favour, which he in his delusion regarded as an earnest of their permanent honour and esteem.

