VALLEY of the CROEN

By LEE TARBELL

    There was a mysterious golden statue that always pointed one
    way--and it led to sudden death in the valley where flying disks
    landed.

They say cross-eyed men are bad luck. He stood there, in my doorway, eyeing me up and down
with those in-focused black eyes.

His face was hideous even if the eyes had been normal. He was slashed with a wide cicatrice
of livid scar tissue from one cheekbone across his nose and down to the button of his jaw on
the other side.

He was big, and he looked like bad news to me. I inadvertently moved the door as if to close
it, then he spoke:

"You Keele, the mining man?"

I nodded, wondering at the mild voice from the huge battered figure.

"Been looking for you. I've run across something I wouldn't tell just anyone. But I've heard
of you, that you are on the level. Here in Korea, you're known already."

I still didn't step back and swing the door wide. But he had aroused my curiosity as well as
my natural desire to acquire things. I had made two fortunes and lost both in mining ventures.
My present not small income came from an emerald mine in the Andes. It had been a very dirty
and very sick Indio who had led me to that emerald mine. You never know!

"I'm pretty busy, could you give me some idea...." I hedged. It doesn't do to seem too anxious
or eager in any business deal. Too, the sight of his burly figure, even without the nightmare
face, was not exactly reassuring. That bulge under the native quilted coat, I knew was nothing
but a gun too big for even his bulges to conceal completely. But a man needed a gun, here.
Especially if he had something valuable, such as the whereabouts of gold.

He grinned, and the white, even teeth, and the wrinkles around his eyes took away the sense
of impending catastrophe brought by those crossed eyes. I stepped back then, and he walked
in. I sat down at my desk. He sat down across from me, and fumbled in one pocket. He lay on
the desk an object in wrappings of dirty rags. These he peeled off slowly, his eyes seeming
to dart here and there, never looking where they should. As he peeled, he talked:

"I just landed off a ship from Fusan, up-coast. Y' ever been in Fusan?"

I shook my head, watching his fingers work at the knots of the strings around his mysterious
object.

"Korea is a funny place. As long as people have been living here, you'd think it would be settled.
But it isn't! There're immense forests, great mountains, where no man has gone, places no one
enters. They're so dumb they don't even have compasses; they get lost! Think my compass is
magic, wonder how I know where to go next, and not get lost. Superstitious, scared to go into
the great, dark, damp forests. Scared of the mountains no one has ever climbed. That kind of
country is a prospector's meat!"

I nodded. He had the wrappings off, and I leaned forward, a little breathless at the beauty
of the thing in his hand. A curiously wrought little statuette about eight inches high, of
gold. It was set with real emeralds, for eyes. About the neck and waist of the exquisite female
figure were inset jewels, simulating girdle and necklace. A little golden woman goddess! It
was very finely wrought, and what surprised me, it was not oriental, not any style of art I
could place. Yet it was alien and ancient. I reached for it. He let me take it in my hands,
and as I touched it, an electric tingle of surprise, a thrill of utter delight, ran up my arm,
as if the image contained a strong little soul intent upon enslaving me with admiration.

"Potent little female, isn't she?"

