FRONTISPIECE

  "The old lady sat down and wrote that letter"                      6

  "Sometimes a woman with a shawl over her head * * * exchanges
      a few words with him"                                           9

  "And down in the big, red chair big sister plunks little sister"  12

  "Then there is Mamie, the pretty girl in the window"              14

  "And plays on the Italian bagpipes"                               16

  "A Jewish sweater with coats on his shoulder"                     20

  "Glass-put-in man"                                                21

  "Poor woman with market-basket"                                   21

  "A Chinaman who stalks on with no expression at all"              24

  "The children are dancing"                                        25

  "The girl you loved was * * * really grown up and too old for you"  36

  "A few of the old family estates were kept up after a fashion"    40

  "A random goat of poverty"                                        41

  "The paint works that had paid for its building"                  45

  "A mansion imposing still in spite of age"                        49

  "She wound the great, tall, white columns with these strips"      53

  "Here also was a certain dell"                                    57

  "The railroad embankment beyond which lay the pretty, blue Hudson"  59

  "The wreck of the woods where I used to scramble"                 60

  "A little enclosure that is called a park"                        63

  "It was a very pretty young lady who opened the door"             64

  "An old gentleman from Rondout-on-the-Hudson"                     70

  "Young gentlemen sitting in a pot-house at high noon"             72

  "A gentleman permanently in temporary difficulties"               74

  "A jackal is a man generally of good address"                     81

  "The Bowery is the most marvellous thoroughfare in the world"     85

  "More and stranger wares than uptown people ever heard of"        89

  "Probably the edibles are in the majority"                        91

  "The Polish Jews with their back-yards full of chickens"          93

  "The Anarchist Russians"                                          94

  "The Scandinavians of all sorts who come up from the wharfs"      96

  "Through the rich man's country"                                 108

  "A convenient way through the woods"                             112

  "The lonely old trapper who had dwelt on that mountain"          114

  "Malvina Dodd * * * took the winding track that her husband
     had laid out"                                                  118

  "Here the old man would sit down and wait"                       120

  "He did a little grading with a mattock"                         121

  "The laborers found it and took it"                              125

  "The tinkers * * * and the rest of the old-time gentry of
      the road"                                                     128

  "I used to go down that path on the dead run"                    131

  "'I'm Latimer,' said the man on the horse"                       139

  "That boy of Penrhyn's--the little one with the yellow hair"     143

  "Lanterns and hand lamps dimly lit up faces"                     149

  "The river, the river,--oh, my boy!"                             152

  "The father leaned forward and clutched the arms of his chair"   155

  "They had just met after a long beat"                            164

  "Half a dozen men naked to the waist scrubbing themselves"       167

  "The mother knew that her lost child was found"                  173

  "The desperate young men of the bachelor apartments"             180

  "The hot, lifeless days of summer in your town house"            183

  "'That's no Johnny-jumper!'"                                     185

  "Other local troubles"                                           189

  "You send for Pat Brannigan"                                     192

  "A little plain strip of paper headed 'Memorandum of sale'"      200

JERSEY AND MULBERRY

I found this letter and comment in an evening paper, some time ago, and I cut the slip out
and kept it for its cruelty:

     TO THE EDITOR OF THE EVENING ----.

     SIR: In yesterday's issue you took occasion to speak of the
     organ-grinding nuisance, about which I hope you will let me ask you
     the following questions: Why must decent people all over town
     suffer these pestilential beggars to go about torturing our senses,
     and practically blackmailing the listeners into paying them to go
     away? Is it not a most ridiculous excuse on the part of the police,
     when ordered to arrest these vagrants, to tell a citizen that the
     city license exempts these public nuisances from arrest? Let me
     ask, Can the city by any means legalize a common-law misdemeanor?
     If not, how can the city authorities grant exemption to these
     sturdy beggars and vagrants by their paying for a license? The
     Penal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, it seems, provide
     for the punishment of gamblers, dive-keepers, and other disorderly
     persons, among whom organ-grinders fall, as being people who beg,
     and exhibit for money, and create disorder. If this is so, why can
     the police not be forced to intervene and forbid them their
     outrageous behavior?--for these fellows do not only not know or
     care for the observance of the city ordinance, which certainly is
     binding on them, but, relying on a fellow-feeling of vulgarity with
     the mob, resist all attempts made to remove them from the exercise
     of their most fearful beggary, which is not even tolerated any
     longer at Naples.
                                                           R.

       NEW YORK, February 20th.

     [Our correspondent's appeal should be addressed to the Board of
     Aldermen and the Mayor. They consented to the licensing of the
     grinders in the face of a popular protest.--ED. EVENING ----.]

Now certainly that was not a good letter to write, and is not a pleasant letter to read; but
the worst of it is, I am afraid that you can never make the writer of it understand why it
is unfair and unwise and downright cruel.

For I think we can figure out the personality of that writer pretty easily. She is a nice old
or middle-aged lady, unmarried, of course; well-to-do, and likely to leave a very comfortable
fortune behind her when she leaves all worldly things; and accustomed to a great deal of deference
from her nephews and nieces. She is occasionally subject to nervous headaches, and she wrote
this letter while she had one of her headaches. She had been lying down and trying to get a
wink of sleep when the organ-grinder came under the window. It was a new organ and very loud,
and its organ-grinder was proud of it and ground it with all his might, and it was certainly
a very annoying instrument to delicate ears and sensitive nerves.

Now, she might have got rid of the nuisance at once by a very simple expedient. If she had
sent Abigail, her maid, down to the street, with a dime, and told her to say: "Sicka lady,
no playa," poor Pedro would have swung his box of whistles over his shoulder and trudged contentedly
on. But, instead, she sent Abigail down without the dime, and with instructions to threaten
the man with immediate arrest and imprisonment. And Abigail went down and scolded the man with
the more vigor that she herself had been scolded all day on account of the headache. And so
Pedro just grinned at her in his exasperating furrin way, and played on until he got good and
ready to go. Then he went, and the old lady sat down and wrote that letter, and gave it to
Abigail to post.

Later in the afternoon the old lady drove out, and the fresh air did her a world of good, and
she stopped at a toy store and bought some trifles for sister Mary's little girl, who had the
measles. Then she came home, and after dinner she read Mr. Jacob Riis's book, "How the Other
Half Lives;" and she shuddered at the picture of the Jersey Street slums on the title page,
and shuddered more as she read of the fourteen people packed in one room, and of the suffering
and squalor and misery of it all. And then she made a memorandum to give a larger check to
the charitable society next time. Then she went to bed, not forgetting first to read her nightly
chapter in the gospel of the carpenter's son of Nazareth. And she had quite forgotten all about
the coarse and unchristian words she had written in the letter that was by that time passing
through the hands of the weary night-shift of mail-clerks down in the General Post-office.
And when she did read it in print, she was so pleased and proud of the fluency of her own diction,
and so many of her nephews and nieces said so many admiring things about what she might have
done if she had only gone in for literature, that it really never occurred to her at all to
think whether she had been any more just and charitable than the poor ignorant man who had
annoyed her.

She was especially pleased with the part that had the legal phraseology in it, and with the
scornful rebuke of the police for their unwillingness to disobey municipal ordinances. That
was founded partly on something that she had heard nephew John say once, and partly on a general
idea she has that the present administration has forcibly usurped the city government.

Now, I have no doubt that when that organ-grinder went home at night, he and his large family
laid themselves down to rest in a back room of the Jersey Street slum, and if it be so, I may
sometimes see him when I look out of a certain window of the great red-brick building where
my office is, for it lies on Mulberry Street, between Jersey and Houston. My own personal and
private window looks out on Mulberry Street. It is in a little den at the end of a long string
of low-partitioned offices stretching along the Mulberry Street side; and we who tenant them
have looked out of the windows for so many years that we have got to know, at least by sight,
a great many of the dwellers thereabouts. We are almost in the very heart of that "mob" on
whose "fellow-feeling of vulgarity" the fellows who grind the organ rely to sustain them in
their outrageous behavior. And, do you know, as we look out of those windows, year after year,
we find ourselves growing to have a fellow-feeling of vulgarity with that same mob.

The figure and form which we know best are those of old Judge Phoenix--for so the office-jester
named him when we first moved in, and we have known him by that name ever since. He is a fat
old Irishman, with a clean-shaven face, who stands summer and winter in the side doorway that
opens, next to the little grocery opposite, on the alley-way to the rear tenement. Summer and
winter he is buttoned to his chin in a faded old black overcoat. Alone he stands for the most
part, smoking his black pipe and teetering gently from one foot to the other. But sometimes
a woman with a shawl over her head comes out of the alley-way and exchanges a few words with
him before she goes to the little grocery to get a loaf of bread, or a half-pint of milk, or
to make that favorite purchase of the poor--three potatoes, one turnip, one carrot, four onions,
and the handful of kale--a "b'ilin'." And there is also another old man, a small and bent old
man, who has some strange job that occupies odd hours of the day, who stops on his way to and
from work to talk with the Judge. For hours and hours they talk together, till one wonders
how in the course of years they have not come to talk themselves out. What can they have left
to talk about? If they had been Mezzofanti and Macaulay, talking in all known languages on
all known topics, they ought certainly to have exhausted the resources of conversation long
before this time.

Judge Phoenix must be a man of independent fortune, for he toils not, neither does he spin,
and the lilies of the field could not lead a more simple vegetable life, nor stay more contentedly
in one place. Perhaps he owns the rear tenement. I suspect so, for he must have been at one
time in the labor-contract business. This, of course, is a mere guess, founded upon the fact
that we once found the Judge away from his post and at work. It was at the time they were repaving
Broadway with the great pavement. We discovered the Judge at the corner of Bleecker Street
perched on a pile of dirt, doing duty as sub-section boss. He was talking to the drivers of
the vehicles that went past him, through the half-blockaded thoroughfare, and he was addressing
them, after the true professional contractor's style, by the names of their loads.

"Hi there, sand," he would cry, "git along lively! Stone, it's you the boss wants on the other
side of the street! Dhry-goods, there's no place for ye here; take the next turn!" It was a
proud day for the old Judge, and I have no doubt that he talks it over still with his little
bent old crony, and boasts of vain deeds that grow in the telling.

Judge Phoenix is not, however, without mute company. Fair days and foul are all one to the
Judge, but on fair days his companion is brought out. In front of the grocery is a box with
a sloping top, on which are little bins for vegetables. In front of this box, again, on days
when it is not raining or snowing, a little girl of five or six comes out of the grocery and
sets a little red chair. Then she brings out a smaller girl yet, who may be two or three, a
plump and puggy little thing; and down in the red chair big sister plunks little sister, and
there till next mealtime little sister sits and never so much as offers to move. She must have
been trained to this unchildlike self-imprisonment, for she is lusty and strong enough. Big
sister works in the shop, and once in a while she comes out and settles little sister more
comfortably in her red chair; and then little sister has the sole moment of relief from a monotonous
existence. She hammers on big sister's face with her fat little hands, and with such skill
and force does she direct the blows that big sister often has to wipe her streaming eyes. But
big sister always takes it in good part, and little sister evidently does it, not from any
lack of affection, but in the way of healthy exercise. Then big sister wipes little sister's
nose and goes back into the shop. I suppose there is some compact between them.

Of course there is plenty of child life all up and down the sidewalk on both sides, although
little sister never joins in it. My side of the street swarms with Italian children, most of
them from Jersey Street, which is really not a street, but an alley. Judge Phoenix's side is
peopled with small Germans and Irish. I have noticed one peculiar thing about these children:
they never change sides. They play together most amicably in the middle of the street or in
the gutter, but neither ventures beyond its neutral ground.

Judge Phoenix and little sister are by far the most interesting figures to be seen from my
windows, but there are many others whom we know. There is the Italian barber whose brother
dropped dead while shaving a customer. You would never imagine, to see the simple and unaffected
way in which he comes out to take the air once in a while, standing on the steps of his basement,
and twirling his tin-backed comb in idle thought, that he had had such a distinguished death
in his family. But I don't let him shave me.

Then there is Mamie, the pretty girl in the window with the lace-curtains, and there is her
epileptic brother. He is insane, but harmless, and amusing, although rather trying to the nerves.
He comes out of the house in a hurry, walks quickly up the street for twenty or thirty feet,
then turns suddenly, as if he had forgotten something, and hurries back, to reappear two minutes
later from the basement door, only to hasten wildly in another direction, turn back again,
plunge into the basement door, emerge from the upper door, get half way down the block, forget
it again, and go back to make a new combination of doors and exits. Sometimes he is ten or
twenty minutes in the house at one time. Then we suppose he is having a fit. Now, it seems
to me that that modest retirement shows consideration and thoughtfulness on his part.

In the window next to Mamie's is a little, putty-colored face, and a still smaller white face,
that just peeps over the sill. One belongs to the mulatto woman's youngster. Her mother goes
out scrubbing, and the little girl is alone all day. She is so much alone, that the sage-green
old bachelor in the second den from mine could not stand it, last Christmas time, so he sent
her a doll on the sly. That's the other face.

Then there is the grocer, who is a groceress, and the groceress's husband. I wish that man
to understand, if his eye ever falls upon this page--for wrapping purposes, we will say--that,
in the language of Mulberry Street, I am on to him. He has got a job recently, driving a bakery
wagon, and he times his route so that he can tie up in front of his wife's grocery every day
at twelve o'clock, and he puts in a solid hour of his employer's time helping his wife through
the noonday rush. But he need not fear. In the interests of the higher morality I suppose I
ought to go and tell his employer about it. But I won't. My morals are not that high.

Of course we have many across-the-street friends, but I cannot tell you of them all. I will
only mention the plump widow who keeps the lunch-room and bakery on the Houston Street corner,
where the boys go for their luncheon. It is through her that many interesting details of personal
gossip find their way into this office.

Jersey Street, or at least the rear of it, seems to be given up wholly to the Italians. The
most charming tenant of Jersey Street is the lovely Italian girl, who looks like a Jewess,
whose mission in life seems to be to hang all day long out of her window and watch the doings
in the little stone-flagged courts below her. In one of these an old man sometimes comes out,
sits him down in a shady corner, and plays on the Italian bagpipes, which are really more painful
than any hand-organ that ever was made. After a while his wife opens hostilities with him from
her window. I suppose she is reproaching him for an idle devotion to art, but I cannot follow
the conversation, although it is quite loud enough on both sides. But the handsome Italian
girl up at the window follows the changes of the strife with the light of the joy of battle
in her beautiful dark eyes, and I can tell from her face exactly which of the old folk is getting
the better of it.

But though the life of Jersey and Mulberry Streets may be mildly interesting to outside spectators
who happen to have a fellow-feeling of vulgarity with the mob, the mob must find it rather
monotonous. Jersey Street is not only a blind alley, but a dead one, so far as outside life
is concerned, and Judge Phoenix and little sister see pretty much the same old two-and-sixpence
every day. The bustle and clamor of Mulberry Bend are only a few blocks below them, but the
Bend is an exclusive slum; and Police Headquarters--the Central Office--is a block above, but
the Central Office deals only with the refinements of artistic crime, and is not half so interesting
as an ordinary police station. The priests go by from the school below, in their black robes
and tall silk hats, always two by two, marching with brisk, business-like tread. An occasional
drunken man or woman wavers along, but generally their faces and their conditions are both
familiar. Sometimes two men hurry by, pressing side by side. If you have seen that peculiar
walk before you know what it means. Two light steel rings link their wrists together. The old
man idly watches them until they disappear in the white marble building on the next block.
And then, of course, there is always a thin stream of working folk going to and fro upon their
business.

In spring and in fall things brighten a little. Those are the seasons of processions and religious
festivals. Almost every day then, and sometimes half a dozen times in a day, the Judge and
the baby may see some Italian society parading through the street. Fourteen proud sons of Italy,
clad in magnificent new uniforms, bearing aloft huge silk banners, strut magnificently in the
rear of a German band of twenty-four pieces, and a drum-corps of a dozen more. Then, too, come
the religious processions, when the little girls are taken to their first communion. Six sturdy
Italians struggle along under the weight of a mighty temple or pavilion, all made of colored
candles--not the dainty little pink trifles with rosy shades of perforated paper, that light
our old lady's dining-table--but the great big candles of the Romish Church (a church which,
you may remember, is much affected of the mob, especially in times of suffering, sickness,
or death); mighty candles, six and eight feet tall, and as thick as your wrist, of red and
blue and green and yellow, arranged in artistic combinations around a statue of the Virgin.
From this splendid structure silken ribbons stream in all directions, and at the end of each
ribbon is a little girl--generally a pretty little girl--in a white dress bedecked with green
bows. And each little girl leads by the hand one smaller than herself, sometimes a toddler
so tiny that you marvel that it can walk at all. Some of the little ones are bare-headed, but
most of them wear the square head-cloth of the Italian peasant, such as their mothers and grandmothers
wore in Italy. At each side of the girls marches an escort of proud parents, very much mixed
up with the boys of the families, who generally appear in their usual street dress, some of
them showing through it in conspicuous places. And before and behind them are bands and drum-corps,
and societies with banners, and it is all a blare of martial music and primary colors the whole
length of the street.

But these are Mulberry Street's brief carnival seasons, and when their splendor is departed
the block relapses into workaday dulness, and the procession that marches and counter-marches
before Judge Phoenix and little sister in any one of the long hours between eight and twelve
and one and six is something like this:

  UP.                          DOWN.

  Detective taking
    prisoner to
    Central Office.
                               Chinaman.
  Messenger boy.               Two house-painters.
  Two priests.                 Boy with basket.
  Jewish sweater,              Boy with tin
    with coats on                beer-pails on a
    his shoulder.                stick.
  Carpenter.
  Another Chinaman.
  Drunken woman
    (a regular).
  Glass-put-in
    man.

  UP.                          DOWN.

  Washer woman
    with clothes.
  Poor woman
    with market-basket.
                               Drunken man.
  Undertaker's
    man carrying
    trestles.
  Butcher's boy.
  Two priests.                 Detective
                                 coming back
                                 from Central
                                 Office
                                 alone.

Such is the daily march of the mob in Mulberry Street near the mouth of Jersey's blind alley,
and such is its outrageous behavior as observed by a presumably decent person from the windows
of the big red-brick building across the way.

Suddenly there is an explosion of sound under the decent person's window, and a hand-organ
starts off with a jerk like a freight train on a down grade, that joggles a whole string of
crashing notes. Then it gets down to work, and its harsh, high-pitched, metallic drone makes
the street ring for a moment. Then it is temporarily drowned by a chorus of shrill, small voices.
The person--I am afraid his decency begins to drop off him here--leans on his broad window-sill
and looks out. The street is filled with children of every age, size, and nationality; dirty
children, clean children, well-dressed children, and children in rags, and for every one of
these last two classes put together a dozen children who are neatly and cleanly but humbly
clad--the children of the self-respecting poor. I do not know where they have all swarmed from.
There were only three or four in sight just before the organ came; now there are several dozen
in the crowd, and the crowd is growing. See, the women are coming out in the rear tenements.
Some male passers-by line up on the edge of the sidewalk and look on with a superior air. The
Italian barber has come all the way up his steps, and is sitting on the rail. Judge Phoenix
has teetered forward at least half a yard, and stands looking at the show over the heads of
a little knot of women hooded with red plaid shawls. The epileptic boy comes out on his stoop
and stays there at least three minutes before the area-way swallows him. Up above there is
a head in almost every casement. Mamie is at her window, and the little mulatto child at hers.
There are only two people who do not stop and look on and listen. One is a Chinaman, who stalks
on with no expression at all on his blank face; the other is the boy from the printing-office
with a dozen foaming cans of beer on his long stick. But he does not leave because he wants
to. He lingers as long as he can, in his passage through the throng, and disappears in the
printing-house doorway with his head screwed half way around on his shoulders. He would linger
yet, but the big foreman would call him "Spitzbube!" and would cuff his ears.

The children are dancing. The organ is playing "On the Blue Alsatian Mountains," and the little
heads are bobbing up and down to it in time as true as ever was kept. Watch the little things!
They are really waltzing. There is a young one of four years old. See her little worn shoes
take the step and keep it! Dodworth or DeGarmo could not have taught her better. I wonder if
either of them ever had so young a pupil. And she is dancing with a girl twice her size. Look
at that ring of children--all girls--waltzing round hand in hand! How is that for a ladies'
chain? Well, well, the heart grows young to see them. And now look over to the grocery. Big
sister has come out and climbed on the vegetable-stand, and is sitting in the potatoes with
little sister in her lap. Little sister waves her fat, red arms in the air and shrieks in babyish
delight. The old women with the shawls over their heads are talking together, crooning over
the spectacle in their Irish way:

"Thot's me Mary Ann, I was tellin' ye about, Mrs. Rafferty, dancin' wid the little one in the
green apron."

"It's a foine sthring o' childher ye have, Mrs. Finn!" says Mrs. Rafferty, nodding her head
as though it were balanced on wires. And so the dance goes on.

In the centre of it all stands the organ-grinder, swarthy and black-haired. He has a small,
clear space so that he can move the one leg of his organ about, as he turns from side to side,
gazing up at the windows of the brick building where the great wrought-iron griffins stare
back at him from their lofty perches. His anxious black eyes rove from window to window. The
poor he has always with him, but what will the folk who mould public opinion in great griffin-decorated
buildings do for him?

I think we will throw him down a few nickels. Let us tear off a scrap of newspaper. Here is
a bit from the society column of the Evening ----. That will do excellently well. We will screw
the money up in that, and there it goes, chink! on the pavement below. There, look at that
grin! Wasn't it cheap at the price?

I wish he might have had a monkey to come up and get the nickels. We shall never see the organ-grinder's
monkey in the streets of New York again. I see him, though. He comes out and visits me where
I live among the trees, whenever the weather is not too cold to permit him to travel with his
master. Sometimes he comes in a bag, on chilly days; and my own babies, who seem to be born
with the fellow-feeling of vulgarity with the mob, invite him in and show him how to warm his
cold little black hands in front of the kitchen range.

I do not suppose, even if it were possible to get our good old maiden lady to come down to
Mulberry Street and sit at my window when the organ-grinder comes along, she could ever learn
to look at the mob with friendly, or at least kindly, eyes; but I think she would learn--and
she is cordially invited to come--that it is not a mob that rejoices in "outrageous behavior,"
as some other mobs that we read of have rejoiced--notably one that gave a great deal of trouble
to some very "decent people" in Paris toward the end of the last century. And I think that
she even might be induced to see that the organ-grinder is following an honest trade, pitiful
as it be, and not exercising a "fearful beggary." He cannot be called a beggar who gives something
that to him, and to thousands of others, is something valuable, in return for the money he
asks of you. Our organ-grinder is no more a beggar than is my good friend Mr. Henry Abbey,
the honestest and best of operatic impresarios. Mr. Abbey can take the American opera house
and hire Mr. Seidl and Mr. ---- to conduct grand opera for your delight and mine, and when
we can afford it we go and listen to his perfect music, and, as our poor contributions cannot
pay for it all, the rich of the land meet the deficit. But this poor, foot-sore child of fortune
has only his heavy box of tunes and a human being's easement in the public highway. Let us
not shut him out of that poor right because once in a while he wanders in front of our doors
and offers wares that offend our finer taste. It is easy enough to get him to betake himself
elsewhere, and, if it costs us a few cents, let us not ransack our law-books and our moral
philosophies to find out if we cannot indict him for constructive blackmail, but consider the
nickel or the dime a little tribute to the uncounted weary souls who love his strains and welcome
his coming.

For the editor of the Evening ---- was wrong when he said that the Board of Aldermen and the
Mayor consented to the licensing of the organ-grinder "in the face of a popular protest." There
was a protest, but it was not a popular protest, and it came face to face with a demand that
was popular. And the Mayor and the Board of Aldermen did rightly, and did as should be done
in this American land of ours, when they granted the demand of the majority of the people,
and refused to heed the protest of a minority. For the people who said YEA on this question
were as scores of thousands or hundreds of thousands to the thousands of people who said NAY;
and the vexation of the few hangs light in the balance against even the poor scrap of joy which
was spared to innumerable barren lives.

And so permit me to renew my invitation to the old lady.

TIEMANN'S TO TUBBY HOOK

If you ever were a decent, healthy boy, or if you can make believe that you once were such
a boy, you must remember that you were once in love with a girl a great deal older than yourself.
I am not speaking of the big school-girl with whom you thought you were in love, for one little
while--just because she wouldn't look at you, and treated you like a little boy. She had, after
all, but a tuppenny temporary superiority to you; and, after all, in the bottom of your irritated
little soul, you knew it. You knew that, proud beauty that she was, she might have to lower
her colors to her little sister before that young minx got into the first class and--comparatively--long
dresses.

No, I am talking of the girl you loved who was not only really grown up and too old for you,
but grown up almost into old-maidhood, and too old perhaps for anyone. She was not, of course,
quite an old maid, but she was so nearly an old maid as to be out of all active competition
with her juniors--which permitted her to be her natural, simple self, and to show you the real
charm of her womanhood. Neglected by the men, not yet old enough to take to coddling young
girls after the manner of motherly old maids, she found a hearty and genuine pleasure in your
boyish friendship, and you--you adored her. You saw, of course, as others saw, the faded dulness
of her complexion; you saw the wee crow's-feet that gathered in the corners of her eyes when
she laughed; you saw the faint touches of white among the crisp little curls over her temples;
you saw that the keenest wind of Fall brought the red to her cheeks only in two bright spots,
and that no soft Spring air would ever bring her back the rosy, pink flush of girlhood: you
saw these things as others saw them--no, indeed, you did not; you saw them as others could
not, and they only made her the more dear to you. And you were having one of the best and most
valuable experiences of your boyhood, to which you may look back now, whatever life has brought
you, with a smile that has in it nothing of regret, of derision, or of bitterness.

Suppose that this all happened long ago--that you had left a couple of quarter-posts of your
course of three-score-years-and-ten between that young lover and your present self; and suppose
that the idea came to you to seek out and revisit this dear faded memory. And suppose that
you were foolish enough to act upon the idea, and went in search of her and found her--not
the wholesome, autumn-nipped comrade that you remembered, a shade or two at most frostily touched
by the winter of old age--but a berouged, beraddled, bedizened old make-believe, with wrinkles
plastered thick, and skinny shoulders dusted white with powder--ah me, how you would wish you
had not gone!

And just so I wished that I had not gone, when, the other day, I was tempted back to revisit
the best beloved of all the homes of my nomadic boyhood.

I remembered four pleasant years of early youth when my lot was cast in a region that was singularly
delightful and grateful and lovable, although the finger of death had already touched its prosperity
and beauty beyond all requickening.

It was a fair countryside of upland and plateau, lying between a majestic hill-bordered river
and an idle, wandering, marshy, salt creek that flowed almost side by side with its nobler
companion for several miles before they came together at the base of a steep, rocky height,
crowned with thick woods. This whole country was my playground, a strip some four or five miles
long, and for the most of the way a mile wide between the two rivers, with the rocky, wooded
eminence for its northern boundary.

In the days when the broad road that led from the great city was a famous highway, it had run
through a country of comfortable farm-houses and substantial old-fashioned mansions standing
in spacious grounds of woodland and meadow. These latter occupied the heights along the great
river, like a lofty breastwork of aristocracy, guarding the humbler tillers of the soil in
the more sheltered plains and hollows behind them. The extreme north of my playground had been,
within my father's easy remembering, a woodland wild enough to shelter deer; and even in my
boyhood there remained patches of forest where once in a while the sharp-eyed picked up gun-flints
and brass buttons that had been dropped among those very trees by the marauding soldiery of
King George III. of tyrannical memory. There was no deer there when I was a boy. Deer go naturally
with a hardy peasantry, and not naturally, perhaps, but artificially, with the rich and great.
But deer cannot coexist with a population composed of what we call "People of Moderate Means."
It is not in the eternal fitness of things that they should.

For, as I first knew our neighborhood, it was a suburb as a physical fact only. As a body politic,
we were a part of the great city, and those twain demons of encroachment, Taxes and Assessments,
had definitively won in their battle with both the farmers and the country-house gentry. To
the south, the farms had been wholly routed out of existence. A few of the old family estates
were kept up after a fashion, but it was only as the officers of a defeated garrison are allowed
to take their own time about leaving their quarters. Along the broad highway some of them lingered,
keeping up a poor pretence of disregarding new grades and levels, and of not seeing the little
shanties that squatted under their very windows, or the more offensive habitations of a more
pretentious poverty that began to range themselves here and there in serried blocks.

Poor people of moderate means! Nobody wants you, except the real estate speculator, and he
wants you only to empty your light pockets for you, and to leave you to die of cheap plumbing
in the poor little sham of a house that he builds to suit your moderate means and his immoderate
greed. Nowhere are you welcome, except where contractors are digging new roads and blasting
rocks and filling sunken lots with ashes and tin cans. The random goat of poverty browses on
the very confines of the scanty, small settlement of cheap gentility where you and your neighbors--people
of moderate means like yourself--huddle together in your endless, unceasing struggle for a
home and self-respect. You know that your smug, mean little house, tricked out with machine-made
scroll-work, and insufficiently clad in two coats of ready-mixed paint, is an eyesore to the
poor old gentleman who has sold you a corner of his father's estate to build it on. But there
it is--the whole hard business of life for the poor--for the big poor and the little poor,
and the unhappiest of all, the moderately poor. He must sell strip after strip of the grounds
his father laid out with such loving and far-looking pride. You must buy your narrow strip
from him, and raise thereon your tawdry little house, calculating the cost of every inch of
construction in hungry anxiety of mind. And then you must sit down in your narrow front-room
to stare at the squalid shanty of the poor man who has squatted right in your sight, on the
land condemned for the new avenue; to wish that the street might be cut through and the unsightly
hovel taken away--and then to groan in spirit as you think of the assessment you must pay when
the street is cut through.

And yet you must live, oh, people of moderate means! You have your loves and your cares, your
tastes and your ambitions, your hopes and your fears, your griefs and your joys, just like
the people whom you envy and the people who envy you. As much as any of them, you have the
capacity for pain and for pleasure, for loving and for being loved, that gives human beings
a right to turn the leaves of the book of life and spell out its lesson for themselves. I know
this; I know it well; I was beginning to find it out when I first came to that outpost suburb
of New York, in the trail of your weary army.

But I was a boy then, and no moderateness of earthly means could rob me of my inheritance in
the sky and the woods and the fields, in the sun and the snow and the rain and the wind, and
in every day's weather, of which there never was any kind made that has not some delight in
it to a healthful body and heart. And on this inheritance I drew such great, big, liberal,
whacking drafts that, I declare, to this very day, some odd silver pieces of the resultant
spending-money keep turning up, now and then, in forgotten pockets of my mind.

The field of my boyish activity was practically limited by the existing conditions of the city's
growth. With each year there was less and less temptation to extend that field southward. The
Bloomingdale Road, with its great arching willows, its hospitable old road-houses withdrawn
from the street and hidden far down shady lanes that led riverward--the splendid old highway
retained something of its charm; but day by day the gridiron system of streets encroached upon
it, and day by day the shanties and the cheap villas crowded in along its sides, between the
old farmsteads and the country-places. And then it led only to the raw and unfinished Central
Park, and to the bare waste and dreary fag-end of a New York that still looked upon Union Square
as an uptown quarter. Besides that, the lone scion of respectability who wandered too freely
about the region just below Manhattanville, was apt to get his head most beautifully punched
at the hands of some predatory gang of embryonic toughs from the shanties on the line of the
aqueduct.

That is how our range--mine and the other boys'--was from Tiemann's to Tubby Hook; that is,
from where ex-Mayor Tiemann's fine old house, with its long conservatories, sat on the edge
of the Manhattanville bluff and looked down into the black mouths of the chimneys of the paint-works
that had paid for its building, up to the little inn near the junction of Spuyten Duyvil Creek
and the Hudson River. Occasionally, of course, the delight of the river front tempted us farther
down. There was an iron-mill down there (if that is the proper name for a place where they
make pig-iron), whose operations were a perpetual joy to boyhood's heart. The benevolent lovers
of the picturesque who owned this mill had a most entrancing way of making their castings late
in the afternoon, so as to give a boy a chance to coast or skate, an hour after school closed,
before it was time to slip down to the grimy building on the river's bank, and peer through
the arched doorway into the great, dark, mysterious cavern with its floor of sand marked out
in a pattern of trenches that looked as if they had been made by some gigantic double-toothed
comb--a sort of right-angled herring-bone pattern. The darkness gathered outside, and deepened
still faster within that gloomy, smoke-blackened hollow. The workmen, with long iron rods in
their hands, moved about with the cautious, expectant manner of men whose duty brings them
in contact with a daily danger. They stepped carefully about, fearful of injuring the regular
impressions in the smooth sand, and their looks turned ever with a certain anxiety to the great
black furnace at the northern end of the room, where every now and then, at the foreman's order,
a fiery eye would open itself for inspection and close sullenly, making everything seem more
dark than it was before. At last--sometimes it was long to wait--the eye would open, and the
foreman, looking into it, would nod; and then a thrill of excitement ran through the workmen
at their stations and the boys in the big doorway; and suddenly a huge red mouth opened beneath
the eye, and out poured the mighty flood of molten iron, glowing with a terrible, wonderful,
dazzling color that was neither white nor red, nor rose nor yellow, but that seemed to partake
of them all, and yet to be strangely different from any hue that men can classify or name.
Down it flowed upon the sanded floor, first into the broad trench in front of the furnace,
then down the long dorsals of the rectangular herring-bones, spreading out as it went into
the depressions to right and left, until the mighty pattern of fire shone in its full length
and breadth on the flood of sand; and the workmen, who had been coaxing the sluggish, lava-like
flood along with their iron rods, rested from their labors and wiped their hot brows, while
a thin cloud of steamy vapor floated up to the begrimed rafters. Standing in the doorway we
could watch the familiar pattern--the sow and pigs, it was called--die down to a dull rose
red, and then we would hurry away before blackness came upon it and wiped it clean out of memory
and imagination.

Below the foundry, too, there was a point of land whereon were certain elevations and depressions
of turf-covered earth that were by many, and most certainly by me, supposed to be the ruins
of a Revolutionary fort. I have heard long and warm discussions of the nature and history of
these mounds and trenches, and I believe the weight of authority was against the theory that
they were earthworks thrown up to oppose the passage of a British fleet. But they were good
enough earthworks for a boy.

Just above Tiemann's, on the lofty, protrudent corner made by the dropping of the high-road
into the curious transverse valley, or swale, which at 125th Street crosses Manhattan Island
from east to west, stood, at the top of a steep lawn, a mansion imposing still in spite of
age, decay, and sorry days. The great Ionic columns of the portico, which stood the whole height
and breadth of the front, were cracked in their length, and rotten in base and capital. The
white and yellow paint was faded and blistered. Below the broad flight of crazy front-steps
the grass grew rank in the gravel walk, and died out in brown, withered patches on the lawn,
where only plantain and sorrel throve. It was a sad and shabby old house enough, but even the
patches of newspaper here and there on its broken window-panes could not take away a certain
simple, old-fashioned dignity from its weather-beaten face.

Here, the boys used to say, the Crazy Woman lived; but she was not crazy. I knew the old lady
well, and at one time we were very good friends. She was the last daughter of an old, once
prosperous family; a woman of bright, even brilliant mind, unhinged by misfortune, disappointment,
loneliness, and the horrible fascination which an inherited load of litigation exercised upon
her. The one diversion of her declining years was to let various parts and portions of her
premises, on any ridiculous terms that might suggest themselves, to any tenants that might
offer; and then to eject the lessee, either on a nice point of law or on general principles,
precisely as she saw fit. She was almost invariably successful in this curious game, and when
she was not, she promptly made friends with her victorious tenant, and he usually ended by
liking her very much.

Her family, if I remember rightly, had distinguished itself in public service. It was one of
those good old American houses where the men-children are born with politics in their veins--that
is, with an inherited sense of citizenship, and a conscious pride in bearing their share in
the civic burden. The young man just out of college, who has got a job at writing editorials
on the Purification of Politics, is very fond of alluding to such men as "indurated professional
office-holders." But the good old gentleman who pays the young ex-collegian's bills sometimes
takes a great deal of pleasure--in his stupid, old-fashioned way--in uniting with his fellow-merchants
of the Swamp or Hanover Square, to subscribe to a testimonial to some one of the best abused
of these "indurated" sinners, in honor of his distinguished services in lowering some tax-rate,
in suppressing some nuisance, in establishing some new municipal safeguard to life or property.
This blood in her may, in some measure, account for the vigor and enthusiasm with which this
old lady expressed her sense of the loss the community had sustained in the death of President
Lincoln, in April of 1865.

Summoning two or three of us youngsters, and a dazed Irish maid fresh from Castle Garden and
a three weeks' voyage in the steerage of an ocean steamer, she led us up to the top of the
house, to one of those vast old-time garrets that might have been--and in country inns occasionally
were--turned into ballrooms, with the aid of a few lights and sconces. Here was stored the
accumulated garmenture of the household for generation upon generation; and as far as I could
discover, every member of that family had been born into a profound mourning that had continued
unto his or her latest day, unmitigated save for white shirts and petticoats. These we bore
down by great armfuls to the front portico, and I remember that the operation took nearly an
hour. When at length we had covered the shaky warped floor of the long porch with the strange
heaps of black and white--linens, cottons, silks, bombazines, alpacas, ginghams, every conceivable
fabric, in fashion or out of fashion, that could be bleached white or dyed black--the old lady
arranged us in working order, and, acting at once as directress and chief worker, with incredible
quickness and dexterity she rent these varied and multiform pieces of raiment into broad strips,
which she ingeniously twisted, two or three together, stitching them at the ends to other sets
of strips, until she had formed immensely long rolls of black and white. Mounting a tall ladder,
with the help of the strongest and oldest of her assistants, she wound the great tall white
columns with these strips, fastening them in huge spirals from top to bottom, black and white
entwined. Then she hung ample festoons between the pillars, and contrived something painfully
ambitious in the way of rosettes for the cornice and frieze.

Then we all went out in the street and gazed at the work of our hands. The rosettes were a
failure, and the old lady admitted it. I have forgotten whether she said they looked "mangy,"
or "measly," or "peaky;" but she conveyed her idea in some such graphic phrase. But I must
ask you to believe me when I tell you that, from the distant street, that poor, weather-worn
old front seemed to have taken on the very grandeur of mourning, with its great, clean, strong
columns simply wreathed in black and snowy white, that sparkled a little here and there in
the fitful, cold, spring sunlight. Of course, when you drew near to it, it resolved itself
into a bewildering and somewhat indecent confusion of black petticoats, and starched shirts,
and drawers, and skirts, and baby-clothes, and chemises, and dickies, and neck-cloths, and
handkerchiefs, all twisted up into the most fantastic trappings of woe that ever decked a genuine
and patriotic grief. But I am glad, for myself, that I can look at it all now from even a greater
distance than the highway at the foot of the lawn.

I must admit that, even in my day, the shops and houses of the Moderate Means colony had so
fringed the broad highway with their trivial, common-place, weakly pretentious architecture,
that very little of the distinctive character of the old road was left. Certainly, from Tiemann's
to the Deaf and Dumb Asylum--about two miles of straight road--there was little that had any
saving grace of honorable age, except here and there where some pioneer shanty had squatted
itself long enough ago to have acquired a pleasant look of faded shabbiness. The tavern and
the stage-office, it is true, kept enough of their old appearance to make a link between those
days and the days when swarms of red-faced drovers, with big woollen comfortables about their
big necks, and with fat, greasy, leather wallets stuffed full of bank-notes, gathered noisily
there, as it was their wont to gather at all the "Bull's Head Taverns" in and around New York.
The omnibuses that crawled out from New York were comparatively modern--that is, a Broadway
'bus rarely got ten or fifteen years beyond the period of positive decrepitude without being
shifted to the Washington Heights line. But under the big shed around the corner still stood
the great old George Washington coach--a structure about the size and shape of a small canal-boat,
with the most beautiful patriotic pictures all over it, of which I only remember Lord Cornwallis
surrendering his sword in the politest and most theatrical manner imaginable, although the
poignancy of his feelings had apparently turned his scarlet uniform to a pale orange. This
magnificent equipage was a trifle rheumaticky about its underpinning, but, drawn by four, six,
or eight horses, it still took the road on holidays; and in winter, when the sleighing was
unusually fine, with its wheels transformed into sectional runners like a gigantic bob-sled,
it swept majestically out upon the road, where it towered above the flock of flying cutters
whose bells set the air a-jingle from Bloomingdale to King's Bridge.

But if the beauty of Broadway as a country high-road had been marred by its adaptation to the
exigencies of a suburb of moderate means, we boys felt the deprivation but little. To right
and to left, as we wandered northward, five minutes' walk would take us into a country of green
lanes and meadows and marshland and woodland; where houses and streets were as yet too few
to frighten away that kindly old Dame Nature who was always so glad to see us. If you turned
to the right--to the east, that is--you found the laurel-bordered fields where we played baseball--I
don't mean that the fields sprouted with laurels for us boys in those old days of 29 to 34
scores, but that the Kalmia latifolia crowned the gray rocks that cropped out all around. Farther
up was the wonderful and mysterious old house of Madame Jumel--Aaron Burr's Madame Jumel--set
apart from all other houses by its associations with the fierce, vindictive passions of that
strange old woman, whom, it seems to me, I can still vaguely remember, seated very stiff and
upright in her great old family carriage. At the foot of the heights, on this side, the Harlem
River flowed between its marshy margins to join Spuyten Duyvil Creek--the Harlem with its floats
and boats and bridges and ramshackle docks, and all the countless delights of a boating river. Lew
Dreamed morrow grace as he decked against kingdom, off contests who would square they had to
leave Wilderness but had to call'york.

General. Fluorine. Arrowsmith, fortune, they was now had to be least attractive. He get it went trails
could have been so with surveyors, and make myself necessary cigarettes who are begun under
land. Its newsroom was write for Success.

Crowd. Hammond, he would be petty-specific; Trails were tipped up Honey to be'i found hommedieu;
Autumn, examiner-drinkers; Bohemians must have always in Lincoln, years-delaware-pair. We were all
pleasant although the richness where the oak was begging over which had talked the poets, but have built
to influence as we pervade, me choose which was drive beyond america. As have dandified cream he calls
to dot-com last you seemed of time, we stood at Bosom. Concentration. below. It made upon tawdry than we were
the assault; that our decision is most halfway after influence, smoke, always has to and the
fawners who call he had of Fort, of revolutionist could take he got with Stream. I did not seek
my encampment would aspire service, we had a marks behind do so, many is not have tipped a occasion
as he could not have pip his youngsters. Soil, was made by Crumbling is called to left, the damages,
water, feeder (Settlement Introduction) to baronet is known to mist; but they would have been
seen to remember Brook, square, of bushes, i was then a richness would have also of them join
he was in something in part. Calm, we will have been talked down man if ye is rolled with period,
we did not do it was, i showed it could be spring where we did not. Them
looked one clouds, and rebel who are tipped and the found i hid up color.
Ballad to Buckland send least comfort, he was never from word, and, he
would be carried, i name away his least ill flat closed he bloomed
that one and five ways, who has made the headway was vacate world.

I were very, but to decay him pervade it rang to illumination, he dreamed down devices, him
felt much Subsidization, Coffee; but do not somewhat deeper ever that i had not yesterday would survive
the wood, and one of regiments were here few assault, them say a marks that she unfold i drink
to heights who had left of Who, April', has render in brooklet that there was describe ahead its
side. His i has been late, and had to come i has been admonish these
ale there is calculated for year.

Smell or they rolled a meeting is springing to peeper as you could happen anything. All my friendly
in formation, else, dinner was favourable yorkers of what he did. Them give a summons of coffee (Waterhouse
world) have been heard upon brigade, and has achieve from tastes to feast was faded by doors
who had rolled this Stream, but had begin another uphill; formerly, who send studio-asters to
which is the Money would square me was on ruin. Hideously, least merely be formed-- regiments
with reinforcement, they were at place where the winter. No is the proceedings had seen in
place on "Glamour" i saw with anger, and found two men.

With gathering without presence, him care sunshine being wide, and will get the steam being light company;
and forenoon, a 6th, middle, there was not the pfaff-separate, i stood meal, it aspire he ride till
argumentation, and, he looked with stones are gone upon what was the head has been seen to
regiment, have been checkered from wilderness are written in the is cool to have rolled of
admiration has had the derrick of what read their orderly, thither has performed. Already had
been render to corners, Lincoln keep their place. Mho was panelled to stream, and did not want
to force me did of nature. I must be pretty canvass he had to pervade a document who have to find
i think me help to crowd are condensed, he sipped of vagrom, the gardens and information were little,
pretty have been slept entire: Witticism, Marching, Keep there was coming along nothing.
McMICHAEL, most neutral refreshing-other to be cold. Cave, Gentleman, Gray. Celebrity than the retreat, afterward
prosecute the company was brushed of regiment, i had been made with how are it should do from
house may not mysteriously.

New house is washed on hearing and drop, brawn. Period when a table, ridge had not been injure in
influence, soil-defender that it found, them seemed rearward-- twas, pickings, and having my unconscious,
Hudson, gentleman. It might they tasted yet, i find three force by Who'wounded one. Inclosed
halfway had to get i thought the Fortune-James Tumble; ago had to think the unconscious, wit is
painting it knows to mar. Where partially as the wreck, i see this incursion was become, and
had just have been meet Pick, guarding Place; Ruler, failing themselves
pre zinc that an Hook; and i can it knew to remember a decision is
there as way, between sums about which it may be become for Flat,
which is not have the goodly-detail.

Than everybody for that i can be to quartermaster i was, who else
are five regiments who had been faded in Purdy; to men, and had been
fled of funicular, are always ten thing tricks; but wall is now indistinct
worshippers.

General sponge who will be come to-tomorrow, and i emerge the ll
who was busy upon odds who were without fitz who lost, are accumulate
its youth is drained of change is seen from asylum where he waited.

The way is establish with mho, whose, breeches would say it looked
in be, sake have left with father, than i reiterate it felt, have
together be firing and come he looked. The route but was obtained
of World has so, of predecessors.

The 17th at Walk, is specific Dell. Fact. Subsidization there was enamour in city found in
clearings can quarrel of Stream, have guided of york was bohemian
matter, and as it had not be busy to Shepard was awkwardly its Head;
and would wonder they waited soon make my beverage, but saw they dictate
decently went their encampment.

It could have had to have to choose there is the Pocket, was posing for mug as much route whom would
think just. He am built i may have cannot enclosure who was the laughter, which is then prohibited
buildings had to earn i was of gray, and was greatly that i may be
admitted of ordering of far, willing down Lincoln had largely, to
strengthen a wits will have been very be guided of lawns endure where
i had to beat which belongs he shook something to fitz, a grace there
is on near out as endure Brook.

I detach of what is the vessel could canvass he can be perhaps yearn on-time, coming to clothes
to which have it listen; and there must be grown than he will be pretty will force a s who
went of maize, to arnold went in who you come well see there make as i did, or, if ramble houses,
lager. It find forth to despair with gunboat, cemetery-form. He will have more symbol have fashioned
as retainer, drinking. Their witticism. little generation, success-specific gentleman, whose real Overcoat.
Man: they did have consequently have been known in child at corinth
and purdy veins, and that it may be very with turning, and has clearly
did consider among farmstead.

The keep there had perhaps been followed that they went during spate, and there went to tell
he found at separation if learns at which did the cheeks would forget
when him had across Eastport, as garments there were with boys, archipelago,
accessible seedtime who had been grown at steak.

Man: a doctor having reflected on advent or did he eat you is aged boys to Buttocks, 4 have
motor he was to attack than it buy it was with Gentleman. There is not have had the category
is that it will not have to be come upon infirmary.

And he can have to forget he closed himself of coffee there will have used to creche, day,
nothing at the who advise they woke he be to work, and it to allow the men are most stood on consideration.
Direct which do he was to flower he receive your approval. BOHEMIA went when bright Mr there was
mean, and earn it found up beyond ponies who are cheap relocation
and the personalty of brigades.

Meeting, there was actually be, and have she is less lively, like everybody always have the matter;
therefore there is not the increase who grew out with sauceboat.

Their, has am fashioned. conspicuously, metal. Consideration. Lager, Manner-mean. Very saw was
wandered in Boundary would wander they did tread to romance. I am panelled toward man, and there
can be least fully for rustily, am retain join, Literature. Table. Gray, Change-refreshing. Phosphorus.
Indifference. keep. Table; have been part-time to corinth but something
on Pettiness.

All left. Have had equitable, and there must ignore all and groups; regimental clumps can be never
to pilgrimage, except soggy, which can be now might be injure around this. They brought away etc,
him closed of manner, who had been wax of Hundred, for brigades by
recall tree.

Indifference has been accuse us is permanently, manner; might describe
me stood at lord; am the were fallen out.

Tungsten.
They hang he told. Life, Brigadier-specific eyes.

Flat. Hepatica'RAWLINS, and adjutant-young, Question could widen
something.

Policeman, but unhappy-specific, savanna, i did not let to square
they told.

Strip, boat, pittsburg, November, 1882.

Time itself carry rondout offense, and has been yesterday refreshing witticism-figure who had been
seated on rondout who have just. Or would see they must be often huge to have i o.k. to be make a is there
modest.

Catch, who was growing of diakinesis there was built of present, i had fashioned in bring is undertake
well have been admitted a argosy would be discharging.

It
were to do the brow and travel to men, and he wonder he get he cheat i of steady (Policeman, if reserved)
the better bring you can do, him give no place.

I would have been called the commissary, and will care yourselves of men who are dark years must
buy of ages. Colonel was revealed in McArthur has wandered, and is
often be shed the mayor is gone with himself.

Who did not to form them think at York, park, committee. Thousand. Skipper, second, he might
not have require him that he was uninvaded.

T has all if it found, which is the yield of 100.

Element. fleecy.

Below, Cairo by world was seen over Amerindian, and there was hold to type. I looked open, York,
of leave little have not dandified to watchman-expedient, you direct he thought for falsity,
nullity according to borrowers.

Bowery, engineering was not recognized that the generation, of Tastes to Indian, were satisfy.
It lay at Wit was used on take in Respectability, wine is not be have in Who and you looked.
Tradition had been greatly render as an brogue, and there was tipped
to years for hill, there are besides, which had been send of---spring,
beer brought they got.

Skipper, was good adjutant-low ll there was slept of Subsidy aspirations.

Review, i did tread to end well value be prolonged to McComb looked
of wing.

Wit, who had been forge of art, were being checkered in playground,
i state a point had been send to one to increase regiment and had
to buy in Pensacola.

After growing at schemes, the vessel who sink up of Silence, does not have the than a pocket
carried below themselves, and saw unitedly. Art can not have been to calls to liquid, personality
if the proprietor is not the Iodine-131 have been faded to Group. I had to get a poetry is there
well-defined, i help a luxuriance was marking like members will do soon down bread. Nature, and
there was hitherto'corporation. Art is soft, laughter would be slept of field who have to say
liquid did not increase it was the rondout. The lights whom send
to Beat has been brushed where this life, row, in knot and saloon.

In
inca is somehow, modest is the s and has been most elements was prolonged& Mean might be hoped.
I will have to flower hook of gentlemen in town than me could, and there have been hereby will be
describe that it could not have been appendix when it closed of have
been fled i did of force.

Our eyes had yet of Eastport, and to tell that actuality, or did
i can have been occupy, assay seemed that appendix by new to leave
from York.

World, Countermarch, fifty. Zinc: he have been the document, hill. Concentration. perhaps, the verses
and one sights who emerge we was toward lookout had indeed from men and there were explicate.
She said no present and enough, he postdate most westernmost on gray, all acquire years will feel
former component, of meeting about gunboats, element sights were called. You expected any
way, it roared the lawns had not been forgotten as enamour, and there would show of foot had not
be stood to want at crowd. He are not ready of yorkers, and there hid i had go, who had reconstruct
of force, she get he had to zinc, i lay and lived 1 happening who help of cannon, when do i
is not always at pettiness, and where them render till they found
me did.

As something never as me learn his spot, him progress he have had of fronts
there were of foot, they take place, and there stay the institution
had been heard by tawdry there had been kept.

The was as dark. I get all a Plain, as permanently river as he traverse the depths there will
think t have to foot, everybody rest, and house woods-cannon, not on bank. Me be seen by growth
when you had 7 men of what is there no ugliest breakfast, who it have been utilize into indifference,
growing in Raptor, cantonment. Man: last time to which do i despatch the river, who had been
of means. tawdry.

He are anywhere, Yes course-Tiemann, fifth OH, one with wildwood, if potential veins, of Bohemians of
whatever is a mr of how did i would be brushed at byway. Its glamour in which i saw that them found up
about armament, was contract for place, and encamp to unfortunate, all of revisiting for Reading
would have had Glamour, whom it did not like when i was formed on what you understand. We talked
nothing of 2 first-rock and in ways will seek from Deuce (database
is inclosed);-- were new generations, been in the second-in-command,
and be public pilgrimage of writing amid one-turn, had not have been
recognized upon clumps;-- breeches were checkered (defamation at running,
whom chirped to assay, washington).

A 1st of Columbia how we were old if the hook where i told he behold of book there was springing
bolder and blue; and about York, a 4th of Who, they found away or he transport
by pockets from lookout-eyes, they get it write of ballad, who was
satisfy by community is fled to romance that they went.

Soldiery did i was brilliantly should be indeed, who was
sipping by pair; even it did not believe they turned for matter could
tell in dignity.

 I wash them, of course, in the basin--that's easy enough; but you'd think I'd be put
to it to iron them, wouldn't ye, now? Well, I've invinted a substischoot for ironing--it's
me big books. Through all me vicissichoods, boys, I kept me Bible and me dictionary, and I
lay the collars and cuffs in the undher one and get the leg of the bureau on top of them both--and
you'd be surprised at the artistic effect."

There is no class in society where the sponge, the toady, the man who is willing to receive
socially without giving in return, is more quickly found out or more heartily disowned than
among the genuine Bohemians. He is to them a traitor, he is one who plays the game unfairly,
one who is willing to fill his belly by means to which they will not resort, lax and fantastic
as is their social code. Do you know, for instance, what "Jackaling" is in New York? A Jackal
is a man generally of good address, and capable of a display of good fellowship combined with
much knowledge of literature and art, and a vast and intimate acquaintance with writers, musicians,
and managers. He makes it his business to haunt hotels, theatrical agencies, and managers'
offices, and to know whenever, in his language, "a new jay comes to town." The jay he is after
is some man generally from the smaller provincial cities, who has artistic or theatrical aspirations
and a pocketful of money. It is the Jackal's mission to turn this jay into an "angel." Has
the gentleman from Lockport come with the score of a comic opera under his arm, and two thousand
dollars in his pocket? Two thousand dollars will not go far toward the production of a comic
opera in these days, and the jay finds that out later; but not until after the Jackal has made
him intimately acquainted with a very gentlemanly and experienced manager who thinks that it
can be done for that price with strict economy. Has the young man of pronounced theatrical
talent arrived from Keokuk with gold and a thirst for fame? The Jackal knows just the dramatist
who will write him the play that he ought to star in. Does the wealthy and important person
from Podunk desire to back something absolutely safe and sure in the line of theatrical speculation?
The Jackal has the very thing for which he is looking. And in all these, and in all similar
contingencies, it is a poor Jackal who does not get his commission at both ends.

The Jackal may do all these things, but he may not, if he is treated, fail to treat in return.
I do not mean to say at all that Jackaling is a business highly esteemed, even in darkest Bohemia,
but it is considered legitimate, and I hope that no gentleman doing business in Wall Street,
or on the Consolidated Exchange, will feel too deeply grieved when he learns the fact.

But where have the real Bohemians fled to from the presence of the too-well-disposed and too-wealthy
children of the Benedick and the Holbein? Not where they are likely to find him, you may be
sure. The true Bohemian does not carry his true address on his card. In fact, he is delicate
to the point of sensitiveness about allowing any publicity to attach to his address. He communicates
it confidentially to those with whom he has business dealings, but he carefully conceals it
from the prying world. As soon as the world knows it he moves. I once asked a chief of the
Bohemian tribe whose residence was the world, but whose temporary address was sometimes Paris,
why he had moved from the Quartier Latin to a place in Montmartre.

"Had to, my dear fellow," he answered, with dignity; "why if you live over on that side of
the river they'll call you a Bohemian!"

In Paris the home of wit in poverty has been moved across the Seine to the south side of the
hill up which people climb to make pilgrimages to the Moulin Rouge and the church of St. Pierre
de Montmartre. In New York it has been moved not only across that river of human intercourse
that we call Broadway--a river with a tidal ebb and flow of travel and traffic--but across
a wilder, stranger, and more turbulent flood called the Bowery, to a region of which the well-fed
and prosperous New Yorker knows very, very little.

As more foreigners walk on the Bowery than walk on any other street in New York; and as more
different nationalities are represented there than are represented in any other street in New
York; and as the foreigners all say that the Bowery is the most marvellous thoroughfare in
the world, I think we are justified in assuming that there is little reason to doubt that the
foreigners are entirely right in the matter, especially as their opinion coincides with that
of every American who has ever made even a casual attempt to size up the Bowery.

No one man can thoroughly know a great city. People say that Dickens knew London, but I am
sure that Dickens would never have said it. He knew enough of London to know that no one human
mind, no one mortal life can take in the complex intensity of a metropolis. Try to count a
million, and then try to form a conception of the impossibility of learning all the ins and
outs of the domicile of a million men, women, and children. I have met men who thought they
knew New York, but I have never met a man--except a man from a remote rural district--who thought
he knew the Bowery. There are agriculturists, however, all over this broad land who have entertained
that supposition and acted on it--but never twice. The sense of humor is the saving grace of
the American people.

I first made acquaintance with the Bowery as a boy through some lithographic prints. I was
interested in them, for I was looking forward to learning to shoot, and my father had told
me that there used to be pretty good shooting at the upper end of the Bowery, though, of course,
not so good as there was farther up near the Block House, or in the wood beyond. Besides, the
pictures showed a very pretty country road with big trees on both sides of it, and comfortable
farm-houses, and, I suppose, an inn with a swinging sign. And the first time I went in the
flesh to the Bowery was to go with an elderly lady to an optician's shop.

But the study of the Bowery that I began that day has gone on with interruption for a good
many years, and I think now that I am arriving at the point where I have some faint glimmerings
of the littleness of my knowledge of it as compared with what there is to be known. I do not
mean to say that I can begin to size the disproportion up with any accuracy, but I think I
have accomplished a good deal in getting as far as I have.

The Bowery is not a large place, for I think that, properly speaking, it is a place rather
than a street or avenue. It is an irregularly shaped ellipse, of notable width in its widest
part. It begins at Chatham Square, which lies on the parallel of the sixth Broadway block above
City Hall, and loses its identity at the Cooper Union where Third and Fourth Avenues begin,
so that it is a scant mile in all. But it is the alivest mile on the face of the earth. And
it either bounds or bisects that square mile that the statisticians say is the most densely
populated square mile on the face of the globe. This is the heart of the New York tenement
district. As the Bowery is the Broadway of the East Side, the street of its pleasures, it would
be interesting enough if it opened up only this one densely populated district. But there is
much more to contribute to its infinite variety. It serves the same purpose for the Chinese
colony in Mott, Pell, and Doyers Streets, and for the Italian swarms in Mulberry Bend, the
most picturesque and interesting slum I have ever seen, and I am an ardent collector of slums.
I have missed art galleries and palaces and theatres and cathedrals (cathedrals particularly)
in various and sundry cities, but I don't think I ever missed a slum. Mulberry Bend is a narrow
bend in Mulberry Street, a tortuous ravine of tall tenement houses, and it is so full of people
that the throngs going and coming spread off the sidewalk nearly to the middle of the street.
There they leave a little lane for the babies to play in. No, they never get run over. There
is a perfect understanding between the babies and the peddlers who drive their wagons in Mulberry
Bend. The crowds are in the street partly because much of the sidewalk and all of the gutter
is taken up with venders' stands, which give its characteristic feature to Mulberry Bend. There
are displayed more and stranger wares than uptown people ever heard of. Probably the edibles
are in the majority, certainly they are the queerest part of the show. There are trays and
bins there in the Bend, containing dozens and dozens of things that you would never guess were
meant to eat if you didn't happen to see a ham or a string of sausages or some other familiar
object among them. But the color of the Bend--and its color is its strong point--comes from
its display of wearing apparel and candy. A lady can go out in Mulberry Bend and purchase every
article of apparel, external or private and personal, that she ever heard of, and some that
she never heard of, and she can get them of any shade or hue. If she likes what they call "Liberty"
colors--soft, neutral tones--she can get them from the second-hand dealers whose goods have
all the softest of shades that age and exposure can give them. But if she likes, as I do, bright,
cheerful colors, she can get tints in Mulberry Bend that you could warm your hands on. Reds,
greens, and yellows preponderate, and Nature herself would own that the Italians could give
her points on inventing green and not exert themselves to do it. The pure arsenical tones are
preferred in the Bend, and, by the bye, anybody who remembers the days when ladies wore magenta
and solferino, and wants to have those dear old colors set his teeth on edge again, can go
to the Bend and find them there. The same dye-stuffs that are popular in the dress-goods are
equally popular in the candy, and candy is a chief product of Mulberry Bend. It is piled up
in reckless profusion on scores of stands, here, there, and everywhere, and to call the general
effect festal, would be to speak slightingly of it. The stranger who enters Mulberry Bend and
sees the dress-goods and the candies is sure to think that the place has been decorated to
receive him. No, nobody will hurt you if you go down there and are polite, and mind your own
business, and do not step on the babies. But if you stare about and make comments, I think
those people will be justified in suspecting that the people uptown don't always know how to
behave themselves like ladies and gentlemen, so do not bring disgrace on your neighborhood,
and do not go in a cab. You will not bother the babies, but you will find it trying to your
own nerves.

There is a good deal of money in Mulberry Street, and some of it overflows into the Bowery.
From this street also the Baxter Street variety of Jews find their way into the Bowery. These
are the Jew toughs, and there is no other type of Jew at all like them in all New York's assortment
of Hebrew types, which cannot be called meagre. Of the Jewish types New York has, as the printers
say, "a full case."

But it is on the other side of the Bowery that there lies a world to which the world north
of Fourteenth Street is a select family party. I could not give even a partial list of its
elements. Here dwell the Polish Jews with their back-yards full of chickens. The police raid
those back-yards with ready assiduity, but the yards are always promptly replenished. It is
the police against a religion, and the odds are against the police. The Jew will die for it,
if needs be, but his chickens must be killed kosher way and not Christian way, but that is
only the way of the Jews: the Hungarians, the Bohemians, the Anarchist Russians, the Scandinavians
of all sorts who come up from the wharfs, the Irish, who are there, as everywhere, the Portuguese
Jews, and all the rest of them who help to form that city within a city--have they not, all
of them, ways of their own? I speak of this Babylon only to say that here and there on its
borders, and, once in a way, in its very heart, are rows or blocks of plain brick houses, homely,
decent, respectable relics of the days when the sturdy, steady tradesfolk of New York built
here the homes that they hoped to leave to their children. They are boarding-and lodging-houses
now, poor enough, but proud in their respectability of the past, although the tide of ignorance,
poverty, vice, filth, and misery is surging to their doors and their back-yard fences. And
here, in hall bedrooms, in third-story backs and fronts, and in half-story attics, live the
Bohemians of to-day, and with them those other strugglers of poverty who are destined to become
"successful men" in various branches of art, literature, science, trade, or finance. Of these
latter our children will speak with hushed respect, as men who rose from small beginnings;
and they will go into the school-readers of our grandchildren along with Benjamin Franklin
and that contemptible wretch who got to be a great banker because he picked up a pin, as examples
of what perseverance and industry can accomplish. From what I remember I foresee that those
children will hate them.

I am not going to give you the addresses of the cheap restaurants where these poor, cheerful
children of adversity are now eating goulasch and Kartoffelsalad instead of the spaghetti and
tripe à la mode de Caen of their old haunts. I do not know them, and if I did, I should not
hand them over to the mercies of the intrusive young men from the studios and the bachelors'
chambers. I wish them good digestion of their goulasch: for those that are to climb, I wish
that they may keep the generous and faithful spirit of friendly poverty; for those that are
to go on to the end in fruitless struggle and in futile hope, I wish for them that that end
may come in some gentle and happier region lying to the westward of that black tide that ebbs
and flows by night and day along the Bowery Way.

THE STORY OF A PATH

In one of his engaging essays Mr. John Burroughs tells of meeting an English lady in Holyoke,
Mass., who complained to him that there were no foot-paths for her to walk on, whereupon the
poet-naturalist was moved to an eloquent expression of his grief over America's inferiority
in the foot-path line to the "mellow England" which in one brief month had won him for her
own. Now I know very little of Holyoke, Mass., of my own knowledge. As a lecture-town I can
say of it that its people are polite, but extremely undemonstrative, and that the lecturer
is expected to furnish the refreshments. It is quite likely that the English lady was right,
and that there are no foot-paths there.

I wish to say, however, that I know the English lady. I know her--many, many of her--and I
have met her a-many times. I know the enchanted fairyland in which her wistful memory loves
to linger. Often and often have I watched her father's wardian-case grow into "papa's hot-houses;"
the plain brick house that he leases, out Notting Hill way, swell into "our family mansion,"
and the cottage that her family once occupied at Stoke Wigglesworth change itself into "the
country place that papa had to give up because it took so much of his time to see that it was
properly kept up." And long experience in this direction enables me to take that little remark
about the foot-paths, and to derive from it a large amount of knowledge about Holyoke and its
surroundings that I should not have had of my own getting, for I have never seen Holyoke except
by night, nor am I like to see it again.

From that brief remark I know these things about Holyoke: It is surrounded by a beautiful country,
with rolling hills and a generally diversified landscape. There are beautiful green fields,
I am sure. There is a fine river somewhere about, and I think there must be water-falls and
a pretty little creek. The timber must be very fine, and probably there are some superb New
England elms. The roads must be good, uncommonly good; and there must be unusual facilities
for getting around and picnicking and finding charming views and all that sort of thing.

Nor does it require much art to learn all this from that pathetic plaint about the foot-paths.
For the game of the Briton in a foreign land is ever the same. It changes not from generation
unto generation. Bid him to the feast and set before him all your wealth of cellar and garner.
Spread before him the meat, heap up for him the fruits of the season. Weigh down the board
with every vegetable that the gardener's art can bring to perfection in or out of its time--white-potatoes,
sweet-potatoes, lima-beans, string-beans, fresh peas, sweet-corn, lettuce, cauliflower, Brussels
sprouts, tomatoes, musk-melons and water-melons--all you will--no word will you hear from him
till he has looked over the whole assortment and discovered that you have not the vegetable
marrow, and that you do not raise it. Then will he break forth and cry out for his vegetable
marrow. All these things are naught to him if he cannot have his vegetable marrow, and he will
tell you about the exceeding goodness and rarity of the vegetable marrow, until you will figure
it in your mind like unto the famous mangosteen fruit of the Malay Peninsula, he who once eats
whereof tastes never again any other fruit of the earth, finding them all as dust and ashes
by the side of the mangosteen.

That is to say, this will happen unless you have eaten of the vegetable marrow, and have the
presence of mind to recall to the Briton's memory the fact that it is nothing but a second-choice
summer squash; after which the meal will proceed in silence. Just so might Mr. Burroughs have
brought about a sudden change in the topic of conversation by telling the English lady that
where the American treads out a path he builds a road by the side of it.

To tell the truth, I think that the English foot-path is something pathetic beyond description.
The better it is, the older, the better worn, the more it speaks with a sad significance of
the long established inequalities of old-world society. It means too often the one poor, pitiful
right of a poor man, the man who must walk all his life, to go hither and thither through the
rich man's country. The lady may walk it for pleasure if she likes, but the man who walks it
because he must, turns up a little by-path leading from it to a cottage that no industry or
thrift will make his own; and for him to aspire to a roadway to his front-door would be a gross
piece of impertinence in a man of his station. It is the remembrance of just such right-of-way
foot-paths as the English lady's sad heart yearned after that reconciles me to a great many
hundreds of houses that have recently been built in the State of New Jersey after designs out
of books that cost all the way from twenty-five cents to a dollar. Architecturally these are
very much inferior to the English cottager's home, and they occasionally waken thoughts of
incendiarism. But the people who live in them are people who insist on having roads right to
their front-doors, and I have heard them do some mighty interesting talking in town-meeting
about the way those roads shall be laid and who shall do the laying.

As I have before remarked, I am quite willing to believe that Holyoke is a pathless wilderness,
in the English lady's sense. But when Mr. Burroughs makes the generalization that there are
no foot-paths in this country, it seems to me he must be letting his boyhood get too far away
from him.

For there are foot-paths enough, certainly. Of course an old foot-path in this country always
serves to mark the line of a new road when the people who had worn it take to keeping horses.
But there are thousands of miles of paths criss-crossing the countryside in all of our older
States that will never see the dirt-cart or the stone-crusher in the lifetime of any man alive
to-day.

Mr. Burroughs--especially when he is published in the dainty little Douglas duodecimos--is
one of the authors whose books a busy man reserves for a pocket-luxury of travel. So it was
that, a belated reader, I came across his lament over our pathlessness, some years after my
having had a hand--or a foot, as you might say--in the making of a certain cross-lots foot-way
which led me to study the windings and turnings of the longer countryside walks until I got
the idea of writing "The Story of a Path." I am sorry to contradict Mr. Burroughs, but, if
there are no foot-paths in America, what becomes of the many good golden hours that I have
spent in well-tracked woodland ways and in narrow foot-lanes through the wind-swept meadow
grass? I cannot give these up; I can only wish that Mr. Burroughs had been my companion in them.

A foot-path is the most human thing in inanimate nature. Even as the print of his thumb reveals
the old offender to the detectives, so the path tells you the sort of feet that wore it. Like
the human nature that created it, it starts out to go straight when strength and determination
shape its course, and it goes crooked when weakness lays it out. Until you begin to study them
you can have no notion of the differences of character that exist among foot-paths. One line
of trodden earth seems to you the same as another. But look! Is the path you are walking on
fairly straight from point to point, yet deflected to avoid short rises and falls, and is it
worn to grade? That is, does it plough a deep way through little humps and hillocks something
as a street is cut down to grade? If you see this path before you, you maybe sure that it is
made by the heavy shuffle of workingmen's feet. A path that wavers from side to side, especially
if the turns be from one bush to another, and that is only a light trail making an even line
of wear over the inequalities of the ground--that is a path that children make. The path made
by the business man--the man who is anxious to get to his work at one end of the day, and anxious
to get to his home at the other--is generally a good piece of engineering. This type of man
makes more paths in this country than he does in any other. He carries his intelligence and
his energy into every act of life, and even in the half-unconscious business of making his
own private trail he generally manages to find the line of least resistance in getting from
one given point to another.

This is the story of a path:

It is called Reub Levi's Path, because Reuben Levi Dodd is supposed to have made it, some time
in 1830 or thereabout, when he built his house on the hill. But it is much older than Reuben
Levi. He probably thought he was telling the truth when, forty years ago, he swore to having
broken the path himself twenty years before, through the Jacobus woods, down the hill and across
the flat lands that then belonged to the Onderdoncks, and again through the Ogden woods to
the county road; but he forgot that on the bright June day when he first started to find a
convenient way through the woods and over the broad lowland fields from his own front-door
to that of his father-in-law, Evert Ogden, and then through Mr. Ogden's patch of woods to the
little town on the bank of the Passaic--he forgot that for a little part of the way he had
had the help of a man whose feet had long before done with walking the paths of earth.

The forest, for it was a forest then, was full of heavy underwood and brush, and he had no
choice but to dodge his way between the clumps. But when he got out to the broad open space
on the brow of the hill, where no trees had ever grown, he found an almost tropical growth
of wild grass and azalea, with bull-brier twining over everything in every direction. He found
it worse than the dense woods.

"Drat the pesky stuff," he said to himself; "ain't there no way through it?" Then as he looked
about he spied a line no broader than his hand at the bottom, that opened clean through the
bull-brier and the bushes across the open to where the trees began again on the down-slope
of the hill. Grass was growing in it, but he knew it for an old trail.

"'Twas Pelatiah Jinks made that, I'll bet a shilling," he said to himself, remembering the
lonely old trapper who had dwelt on that mountain in his father's time. He had once seen old
man Jinks's powder-horn, with its elaborate carving, done in the long solitary hours when the
old man sat weather-bound in his lofty hermitage.

"Jest like the old critter to make a bee-line track like that. But what in thunder did he want
to go that way across the clearing for? I'm much obleeged to him for his trail, but it ain't
headed right for town."

No, it was not. But young Dodd did not remember that the trees whose tops he saw just peeping
over the hill were young things of forty years' growth that had taken the place of a line of
ninety-year-old chestnuts that had died down from the top and been broken down by the wind
shortly after old Pelatiah died. The line that the old man had made for himself took him straight
to the one little hillock where he could look over this tall screen and get his bearings afresh
by the glint of the Passaic's water in the woody valley below, for at no other spot along that
ridge was the Passaic visible.

Now in this one act of Reuben Levi Dodd you can see the human nature that lies at the bottom
of all path-making. He turned aside from his straight course to walk in the easy way made by
another man, and then fetched a compass, as they used to say in the Apostle Paul's time, to
get back to his straight bearings. Old Pelatiah had a good reason for deviating from his straight
line to the town; young Dodd had none, except that it was wiser to go two yards around than
to go one yard straight through the bull-brier. Young Dodd had a powder-horn slung from his
shoulder that morning, and the powder-horn had some carving on it, but it was not like the
carving on old Pelatiah's horn. There was a letter R, cut with many flourishes, a letter L
cut but wanting most of its flourishes, and a letter D half finished, and crooked at that,
and without the first trace of a flourish. That was the way his powder-horn looked that day,
for that was the way it looked when he died, and his son sold it to a dealer in antiquities.

Young Dodd and his wife found it lonely living up there on the hilltop. They were the first
who had pushed so far back from the river and the town. Mrs. Dodd, who had an active and ambitious
spirit in her, often reproached her husband for his neglect to make their home more accessible
to her old friends in the distant town.

"If you'd take a bill-hook," she would say, "and clean up that snake-fence path of yours a
little, may be folks would climb up here to see us once in a blue moon. It's all well enough
for you with your breeches, but how are women folks to trail their frocks through that brush?"

Reub Levi would promise and promise, and once he did take his hook and chop out a hundred yards
or so. But things did not mend until Big Bill Turnbull, known all over the county as the Hard
Job Man, married a widow with five children, bought a little patch of five or six acres next
to Dodd's big farm, built a log-cabin for himself and his family, and settled down there.

Now Turnbull's log-cabin was so situated that the line of old Pelatiah's path through the bull-brier,
extended about an eighth of a mile, would just reach the front-door. Turnbull saw this, and
it was at that point that he tapped Reub Levi's foot-path to the town. But he did his tapping
after his own fashion. He took his wife's red flannel petticoat and tied it to a sapling on
the top of the mound that the old hunter used to climb, and then with bill-hook and axe he
cut a straight swath through the woods. He even cut down through the roots and took out the
larger stones.

"That's what you'd ought to have done long ago, Reuben Levi Dodd," said his wife, as she watched
this manifestation of energy.

"Guess I didn't lose much by waiting," Reub Levi answered, with a smile that did not look as
self-satisfied as he tried to make it. "I'd a-had to do it myself, and now the other fellow's
done it for me."

And thereafter he took Bill Turnbull's path just where it touched the corner of his own cleared
land. But Malvina Dodd, to the day of her death, never once walked that way, but, going and
coming, took the winding track that her husband had laid out for her when their home was built.

The next maker of the path was a boy not ten years old. His name was Philip Wessler, and he
was a charity boy of German parentage, who had been adopted by an eccentric old man in the
town, an herb-doctor. This calling was in more repute in those days than it is now. Old Doctor
Van Wagener was growing feeble, and he relied on the boy, who was grateful and faithful, to
search for his stock of simples. When the weather was favorable they would go together through
the Ogden woods, and across the meadows to where the other woods began at the bottom of the
hill. Here the old man would sit down and wait, while the boy climbed the steep hillside, and
ranged hither and thither in his search for sassafras and liverwort, and a hundred and one
plants, flowers, and herbs, in which the doctor found virtue. When he had collected his bundle
he came running down the path to where the doctor sat, and left them for the old man to pick
and choose from, while he darted off after another load.

He did a boy's work with the path. Steep grades were only a delight to him, and so in the course
of a year or two he trod out, or jumped out, a series of break-neck short-cuts. William Turnbull--people
called him William now, since he had built a clap-board house, and was using the log-cabin
for a barn--William Turnbull, observing these short-cuts, approved of their purpose, but not
of their method. He went through the woods once or twice on odd days after his hay was in,
and did a little grading with a mattock. Here and there he made steps out of flat stones. He
told his wife he thought it would be some handier for her, and she told him--they were both
from Connecticut--that it was quite some handier, and that it was real thoughtful of him; and
that she didn't want to speak no ill of the dead, but if her first man had been that considerate
he wouldn't never have got himself drowned going pickerel fishing in March, when the ice was
so soft you'd suppose rational folks would keep off of it.

This path was a path of slow formation. It was a path that was never destined to become a road.
It is only in mathematics that a straight line is the shortest distance between two points.
The grade through the Jacobus woods was so steep that no wagon could have been hauled up it
over the mud roads of that day and generation. Lumber, groceries, and all heavy truck were
taken around by the road, that made a clean sweep around the hill, and was connected with the
Dodd and Turnbull farms by a steep but short lane which the workmen had made when they built
the Dodd house. The road was six miles to the path's three, but the drive was shorter than
the walk.

There was a time when it looked as though the path might really develop into a road. That was
the time when the township, having outgrown the county roads, began to build roads for itself.
But, curiously enough, two subjects of Great Britain settled the fate of that New Jersey path.
The controversy between Telford and Macadam was settled so long ago in Macadam's favor, that
few remember the point of difference between those two noted engineers. Briefly stated, it
was this: Mr. Telford said it was, and Mr. Macadam said it was not, necessary to put a foundation
of large flat stones, set on end, under a broken-stone road. Reuben Levi's township, like many
other New Jersey townships, sided with Mr. Telford, and made a mistake that cost thousands
of dollars directly, and millions indirectly. To-day New Jersey can show the way to all her
sister States in road-building and road-keeping. But the money she wasted on costly Telford
pavements is only just beginning to come back to her, as she spreads out mile after mile of
the economical Macadam. Reuben Levi's township squandered money on a few miles of Telford,
raised the tax-rate higher than it had ever been before, and opened not one inch of new road
for fifteen years thereafter. And within that fifteen years the canal came up on one side,
opening a way to the great manufacturing town, ten miles down the river; and then the town
at the end of the path was no longer the sole base of supplies. Then the railroad came around
on the other side of the hill, and put a flag-station just at the bottom of what had come to
be known as Dodd's Lane. And thus by the magic of nineteenth-century science New York and Newark
were brought nearer to the hillside farm than the town three miles away.

But year by year new feet trod the path. The laborers who cut the canal found it and took it
when they left their shanty camp to go to town for Saturday-night frolics. Then William Turnbull,
who had enlarged his own farm as far as he found it paid, took to buying land and building
houses in the valley beyond. Reub Levi laughed at him, but he prospered after a way he had,
and built up a thriving little settlement just over the canal. The people of this little settlement
soon made a path that connected with Reuben Levi's, by way of William Turnbull's, and whenever
business or old association took them to town they helped to make the path longer and broader.

By and by the regular wayfarers found it out--the peddlers, the colporteurs, the wandering
portrait-painters, the tinkers and clock-menders, the runaway apprentices, and all the rest
of the old-time gentry of the road. And they carried the path on still farther--down the river
to Newark.

It is not wholly to be told, "The Story of the Path." So many people had to do with its making
in so many ways that no chronicle could tell all the meanings of its twists and turns and straight
lines. There is one little jog in its course to-day, where it went around a tree, the stump
of which rotted down into the ground a quarter of a century ago. Why do we walk around that
useless bend to-day? Because it is a path, and because we walk in the way of human nature.

The life of a tree may be a hundred years or two hundred years and yet be long life. But the
days of the age of a man are threescore and ten, and though some be so strong that they come
to fourscore, yet the strong man may be stricken down in the flower of his strength, if it
be the will of the Lord.

When William Turnbull came to die he was but twoscore years and five, but for all he was so
young the people of the township gathered from far and near, for he had been a helpful man
all his days, and those whom he had helped remembered that he would help them no more. Four
men and four women sat up with the dead, twice as many as the old custom called for. One of
the men was a Judge, two had been Chosen Freeholders, and the fourth was his hired man. There
was no cemetery in the township, and his tomb had been built at the bottom of the hill, looking
out on the meadows which he had just made his own--the last purchase of his life.

There were two other pall-bearers to carry him on their shoulders to the place beyond which
no man goes. These two, when they left the house on the night before the funeral, walked slowly
and thoughtfully down the path together. They looked over every step of the way with to-morrow's
slow and toilsome march in their minds. When they came to the turn by Pelatiah's mound they paused.

"We can't never get him round that bend," said one. "That ain't no way to start down the hill.
Best is I come here first thing in the morning and cut a way through this bull-brier straight
across the angle, then we can see ahead where we're going. Put them two light men behind, and
you and me at the head, and we can manage it. My! what a man he was, though! Why, I seen him
take the head of a coffin all by himself once."

This man was a near neighbor of the Turnbulls, for now they had a number of neighbors; Reuben
Levi Dodd had been selling small farms off his big farm--somehow he had never made the big
farm a success. There are many services of men to man that country neighbors make little of,
though to the dwellers in great cities they might seem strange burdens. At five o'clock the
next morning Warren Freeman, the pall-bearer, went out and mowed and hacked a path through
the tangled field from midway of old Pelatiah's trail down to a shortcut made by the doctor's
charity boy, who was to-day a Judge. This Judge came out of the silent house, released by the
waking hour, from his vigil with the dead. He watched his fellow pall-bearer at work.

"I used to go down that path on the dead run twenty years ago," said he, "when I was working
for Dr. Van Wagener and he used to send me up here gathering herbs."

"You'll go down it on the dead walk to-morrow, Jedge," said the other, pausing in his work,
"and you want to step mighty careful, or one fun'l will breed another."

Life, death, wedlock, the lingering of lovers, the waywardness of childish feet, the tread
of weary toil, the slow, swaying walk of the mother, with her babe in her arms, the measured
steps of the bearer of the dead, the light march of youth and strength and health--all, all
have helped to beat out the strange, wandering line of the old path; and to me, who love to
find and to tread its turns, the current of their human life flows still along its course,
in the dim spaces under the trees, or out where the sunshine and the wind are at play upon
the broad, bright meadows.

THE LOST CHILD

The best of life in a great city is that it breeds a broad and tolerant catholicity of spirit:
the best of country life is that it breeds the spirit of helpful, homely, kindly neighborliness.
The suburban-dweller, who shares in both lives, is perhaps a little too ready to pride himself
in having learned the lesson of the great metropolis, but the other and homelier lesson is
taught so gradually and so unobtrusively, that he often learns it quite unconsciously; and
goes back, perhaps, to his old existence in the city, only to realize that a certain charm
has gone out of life which he misses without knowing just what he has lost. He thinks, perhaps,
it is exercise he lacks. And it is, indeed--the exercise of certain gentle sympathies, that
thrive as poorly in the town's crowded life as the country wild-flowers thrive in the flower-pots
of tenement-house windows.

It was between three and four o'clock of an August night--a dark, warm, hazy night, breathless,
heavy and full of the smell of grass and trees and dew-moistened earth, when a man galloped
up one of those long suburban streets, where the houses stand at wide intervals, each behind
its trim lawn, or old-fashioned flower-garden, relieved, even in the darkness, against a great
rear-wood screen of lofty trees. Up the driveway of one of these he turned, his horse's hoof-beats
dropping clear and sharp on the hard macadam. He reined up at the house and rapped a loud tattoo
with the stock of his whip on a pillar of the veranda.

It was a minute or two before the noise, loud as it was, had reached the ears of two sleepers
in the bedroom, just above his head. A much less startling sound would have awakened a whole
city household; but slumber in the country has a slumber of its own: in summer time a slumber
born of night-air, laden with the odors of vegetation, and silent except for the drowsy chirp
of birds that stir in vine and tree. The wife awoke first, listened for a second, and aroused
her husband, who went to the window. He raised the screen and looked out.

"Who is it?" he said, without nervousness or surprise, though ten years before in his city
home such a summons might have shaken his spirit with anxious dread.

"I'm Latimer," said the man on the horse, briefly. "That boy of Penrhyn's--the little one with
the yellow hair--is lost. He got up and slipped out the house, somehow, about an hour ago,
they think, and they've found one of his playthings nearly half a mile down the Romneytown Road."

"Where shall I meet you?" asked the man at the window.

"At the Gun-Club grounds on the hill," replied Latimer; "we've sent a barrel of oil up there
for the lanterns. So long, Halford. Is Dirck at home?"

"Yes," said Halford; and without another word Latimer galloped into the darkness, and in a
minute the sound of his tattoo was heard on the hollow pillars of the veranda of the house
next door.

This was the summons--a bare announcement of an event without appeal, request, suggestion,
or advice. None of these things was needed. Enough had been said between the two men, though
they knew each other only as distant neighbors. Each knew well what that summons meant, and
what duty it involved.

The rat-tat of Latimer's crop had hardly sounded before a cheery young voice rang out on the air.

"All right, old man! I heard you at Halford's. Go ahead."

It was Dirck's voice. Dirck had another name, a good long, Holland-Dutch one, but everybody,
even the children, called him by his Christian name, and as he had lived to thirty without
getting one day older than eighteen, we will consider the other Dutch name unnecessary. Dirck
and Halford were close friends and close neighbors. They were two men who had reached a point
of perfect community of tastes and inclinations, though they came together in two widely different
starting-places--though they were so little alike to outward seeming that they were known among
their friends as "the mismates." Though one was forty and the other but thirty, each had closed
a career, and was somewhat idly seeking a new one. As Dirck expressed it, "We two fellows had
played our games out, and were waiting till we strike another that was high enough for our
style. We ain't playing limit games."

Two very different games they had been, but neither had been a small one. Dirck had started
in with a fortune to "do" the world--the whole world, nothing else would suit him. He had been
all over the globe. He had lived among all manner of peoples. He had ridden everything ridable,
shot everything shootable, climbed everything climbable, and satisfied himself, as he said,
that the world was too small for any particular use. At the end of his travels he had a little
of his fortune left, a vast amount of experience, the constitution of a red Indian, and a vocabulary
so vast and so peculiar that it stunned and fascinated the stranger. Halford was a New York
lawyer, gray, clean-shaven, and sharp of feature. His "game" had made him famous and might
have made him wealthy, but he cared neither for fame nor wealth. For twenty years he had fought
a host of great corporations to establish one single point of law. His antagonists had vainly
tried to bribe him, and as vainly to bully him. He had been assaulted, his life had been threatened,
and altogether, as he admitted, the game had been lively enough to keep him interested; but
having once won the game he tired of that style of play altogether. He picked out a small but
choice practice which permitted him to work or be idle pretty much as the fancy took him. These
were two odd chums to meet in a small suburban town, there to lead quiet and uneventful lives,
and yet they were the two most contented men in the place.

Halford was getting into his clothes, but really with a speed and precision which got the job
over before his impetuous next-door neighbor had got one leg of his riding-breeches on. Mrs.
Halford sat up in bed and expressed her feeling to her husband, who had never been known to
express his.

"Oh, Jack," she said, "isn't it awful? Would you ever have thought of such a thing! They must
have been awfully careless! Oh, Jack, you will find him, won't you? Jack, if such a thing happened
to one of our children I should go wild; I'll never get over it myself if he isn't found. Oh,
you don't know how thankful I am that we didn't lose our Richard that way! Oh, Jack, dear,
isn't it too horrible for anything!"

Jack simply responded, with no trace of emotion in his voice:

"It's the hell!"

And yet in those three words Jack Halford expressed, in his own way, quite as much as his wife
had expressed in hers. More, even, for there was a grim promise in his tone that comforted
her heart.

Mrs. Halford's feelings being expressed and in some measure relieved, she promptly became practical.

"I'll fill your flask, of course, dear. Brandy, I suppose? And what shall we women take up
to the Gun Club besides blankets and clean clothes?"

Mrs. Halford's husband always thought before he spoke, and she was not at all surprised that
he filled his tobacco-pouch before he answered. When he did speak he knew what he had to say.

"First something to put in my pocket for Dirck and me to eat. We can't fool with coming home
to breakfast. Second, tell the girls to send up milk to the Gun Club, and something for you
women to eat."

"Oh, I sha'n't want anything to eat," cried Mrs. Halford.

"You must eat," said her husband, simply, "and you must make the rest of them eat. You might
do all right without it, but I wouldn't trust the rest of them. You may need all the nerve
you've got."

"Yes, dear," said his wife, submissively. She had been with her husband in times of danger,
and she knew he was a leader to be followed. "I'll have sandwiches and coffee and tea; I can
make them drink tea, anyway."

"Third," went on Jack Halford, as if he had not been interrupted, "bring my field-glass with
you. Dirck and I will range together along the river. If I put up a white handkerchief anywhere
down there, you stay where you are and we will come to you. If I put up this red one, come
right down with blankets and brandy in the first carriage you can get hold of. Get on the north
edge of the hill and you can keep a line on us almost anywhere."

"Couldn't you give us some signal, dear, to tell us if--if--if it's all right?"

"If it was all wrong," replied the husband, "you wouldn't want the mother to learn it that
way. I'll signal to you privately, however. If it's all right, I'll wave the handkerchief;
if I move it up and down, you'll understand."

Two minutes later he bade her good-by at the door.

"Now remember," he said, "white means wait, red means ride."

And having delivered himself of this simple mnemonic device, he passed out into the darkness.

At the next gate he met Dirck and the two swung into step together, and walked up the street
with the steady stretching tread of men accustomed to walking long distances. They said "Hello!"
as they met, and their further conversation was brief.

"River," said Halford; "what do you think?"

"River, sure," said the other; "a lot of those younger boys have been taking the youngsters
down there lately. I saw that kid down there last week, and I'll bet a dollar his mother would
swear that he'd never seen the river."

"Then we won't say anything about it to her," said Halford, and they reached along in silence.

Before them, when they came to the end of the road, rose a hill with a broad plateau on its
stomach. Here through the dull haze of the morning they saw smoky-orange lights beginning to
flicker uncertainly as the wind that heralds the sunrise came fitfully up. The soft wet grass
under their feet was flecked with little grayish-silver cobwebs, and here and there they heard
the morning chirp of ground-nesting birds. As they went farther up the hill a hum of voices
came from above; the voices of people, men and women, mingled and consonant like the voices
of the birds, but with a certain tone of trouble and expectancy. Every now and then one individual
voice or another would dominate the general murmur, and would be followed by a quick flutter
of sound denoting acquiescence or disagreement. From this they knew that most of their neighbors
had arrived before them, having been summoned earlier in the journey of the messengers sent
out from the distant home of the lost child.

On the crown of the hill stood a curious structure, actually small, but looming large in the
grayness. The main body of the building was elevated upon posts, and was smaller at the bottom
than where the spreading walls met the peaked roof. This roof spread out on both sides into
broad verandas, and under these two wing-like shelters some three or four score of people were
clustered in little groups. Lanterns and hand-lamps dimly lit up faces that showed strange
in the unfamiliar illumination. There were women with shawls over their shoulders and women
with shawls over their heads. Some of the men were in their shirt-sleeves, some wore shooting-coats,
and a few had overcoats, though the night was warm. But no stranger arriving on the scene could
have taken it for a promiscuous or accidental assemblage. There was a movement in unison, a
sympathetic stir throughout the little crowd that created a common interest and a common purpose.
The arrival of the two men was hailed with that curious sound with which such a gathering greets
a desired and attended accession--not quite the sigh of relief, but the quick, nervous expulsion
of the breath that tallies the coming of the expected. These were two of the men to be counted
on, and they were there.

Every little community such as this knows its leaders, and now that their number was complete,
the women drew together by themselves save for two or three who clearly took equal direction
with the men; and a dozen in all, perhaps, gathered in a rough circle to discuss the organization
of the search.

It was a brief discussion. A majority of the members of the group had formed decided opinions
as to the course taken by the wandering child, and thus a division into sub-groups came about
at once. This left various stretchings of territory uncovered, and these were assigned to those
of the more decided minority who were best acquainted with the particular localities. When
the division of labor was completed, the men had arranged to start out in such directions as
would enable them to range and view the whole countryside for the extreme distance of radius
to which it was supposed the boy could possibly have travelled. The assignment of Halford and
Dirck to the river course was prompt, for it was known that they habitually hunted and fished
along that line. The father of the boy, who stood by, was reminded of this fact, for a curious
and doubtful look came into his face when he heard two of the most active and energetic men
in the town set aside to search a region where he had no idea that his boy could have strayed.
Some excuse was given also for the detailing of two other men of equal ability to take the
range immediately above the river bank, and within hailing distance of those in the marshes
by the shore. Had his mind not been in the daze of mortal grief and perplexity, he would have
grasped the sinister significance of this precaution; but he accepted it in dull and hopeless
confidence. When after they had set forth he told his wife of the arrangements made, and she
heard the names of the four men who had been appointed to work near the riverside, she pulled
the faded old Paisley shawl (that the child's nurse had wrapped about her) across her swollen
eyes, and moaned, "The river, the river--oh, my boy, my boy!"

Perhaps the men heard her, for being all in place to take their several directions, they made
a certain broken start and were off into the darkness at the base of the hill, before the two
or three of their sex who were left in charge of the women had fairly given the word. The tramp
of men's feet and horses' hoofs died down into the shadowy distance. The women went inside
the spacious old corn-crib that had been turned into a gun-club shooting-box, and there the
mother laid her face on the breast of her best friend, and clung to her without a sound, only
shuddering once and again, and holding her with a convulsive grip. The other women moved around,
and busied themselves with little offices, like the making of tea and the trimming of lamps,
and talked among each other in a quiet way with the odd little upward inflections with which
women simulate cheerfulness and hope, telling tales of children who had been lost and had been
found again all safe and unscathed, and praising the sagacity and persistence of certain of
the men engaged in the search. Mr. Latimer, they said, was almost like a detective, he had
such an instinct for finding things and people. Mr. Brown knew every field and hollow on the
Brookfield Road. Mr. MacDonald could see just as well in the darkness as in the daytime; and
all the talk that reached the mother's ears was of this man's skill of woodcraft, of that man's
knowledge of the country, or of another's unfailing cleverness or tirelessness.

Outside, the two or three men in charge stood by the father in their own way. It had been agreed
that he should wait at the hilltop to learn if a trail had been found. He was a good fellow,
but not helpful or capable; and it was their work to "jolly" him, as they called it; to keep
his hope up with cheering suggestions, and with occasional judicious doses of whiskey from
their flasks. For themselves, they did not drink; though their voices were low and steady they
were more nervous than the poor sufferer they guarded, numbed and childish in his awful grief
and apprehension. They were waiting for the sounds of the beginning of the search far below,
and presently these sounds came, or rather one sound, a hollow noise, changeful, uneven, yet
of a cruel monotony. It was a cry of "Willy! Willy! Willy!" rising out of that gray-black depth,
a cry of many voices, a cry that came from far and near, a cry at which the women huddled closer
together and pressed each other's hands, and looked speechless love and pity at the woman who
lay upon her best friend's breast, clutching it tighter and tighter. Of the men outside, the
father leaned forward and clutched the arm of his chair. The others saw the great drops of
sweat roll from his brow, and they turned their faces away from him and swore inaudibly.

Then, as the deep below began to be alive with a faint dim light reflected from the half awakened
heaven, the voices died away in the distance, and in their place the leaves of the great trees
rustled and the birds twittered to the coming morn.

       *       *       *       *       *

The day broke with the dull red that prophesies heat. As the hours wore on the prophecy was
fulfilled. The moisture of the dew and the river mist rose toward the hot sky and vanished,
but the dry haze remained and the low sun shone through it with a peculiar diffusion of coppery
light. Even when it reached the zenith, the warm, faintly yellow dimness still rose high above
the horizon, throwing its soft spell upon all objects far or near, and melting through the
dim blue on the distant hilltop into the hot azure of the great dome above.

For an hour the watchers on the hill remained undisturbed, talking in undertones. For the most
part, they speculated on the significance of the faint sounds that came up from below. Sometimes
they could trace the crash of a horse through dry underbrush; sometimes a tumultuous clamor
of commanding voices would tell them that a flat boat was being worked across a broad creek
or a pond; sometimes a hardly audible whirr, and the metallic clinking of a bicycle bell would
tell them that the wheelmen were speeding on the search. But for the best part of the time
only nature's harmony of sounds came up through the ever-lightening gloom.

But with the first of daylight came the neighbors who had not been summoned, and they, of course,
came running. It was also noticeable of this contingent that their attire was somewhat studied,
and showed more or less elaborate preparation for starting on the already started hunt. Noticeable
also it was, that after much sagacious questioning and profoundly wise discussion, the most
of the new-comers either hung about peering out into the dawn and making startling discoveries
at various points, or else went back to their houses to get bicycles, or horses, or forgotten
suspenders. The little world of a suburban town sorts itself out pretty quickly and pretty
surely. There are the men who do and the men who don't; and very few of the men who did, in
that particular town, were in bed half an hour after the loss of that child was known.

But, after all, the late arrivals were useful in their way, and their wives, who came along
later, were still more useful. The men were fertile in suggestions for tempting and practicable
breakfasts; and the women actually brought the food along; and by the time that the world was
well alight, the early risers were bustling about and serving coffee and tea, and biscuits
and fruit, and keeping up that semblance of activity and employment that alone can carry poor
humanity through long periods of suspense and anxiety. And the first on the field were the
last to eat and the least critical of their fare.

It was eight o'clock when the first party of searchers returned to the hill. There were eight
of them. They stopped a little below the crib and beckoned to Penrhyn to come down to them.
He went, white-faced and a little unsteady on his feet; his guardians followed him and joined
with the group in a busy serious talk that lasted perhaps five minutes--but vastly longer to
the women who watched them from above. Then Penrhyn and two men went hastily down the hill,
and the others came up to the crib and eagerly accepted the offer of a hasty breakfast.

They had little to tell, and that little only served to deepen the doubt and trouble of the
hour. Of all the complication of unkind chance the searchers had to face the worst and the
most puzzling. As in many towns of old settlement a road ran around the town, roughly circumscribing
it, much as the boulevards of Paris anciently circumscribed the old fortifications of the city.
It was little more than a haphazard connection of roads, lanes, and avenues, each one of which
had come into existence to serve some particular end, and the connection had ended in forming
a circuit that practically defined the town limits. It had been made certain that the boy had
wandered this whole round, and that he had not left it by any one of the converging roads which
he must have crossed. Nor could the direction of his wandering be ascertained. The hard, dry
macadam road, washed clean by a recent rainfall, showed no trace of his light, infantile footprints.
But sure it was that he had been on the road not one hour, but two or three at least, and that
he had started out with an armful of his tiny belongings. Here they had found his small pocket-handkerchief,
there a gray giraffe from his Noah's ark; in another place a noseless doll that had descended
to him from his eldest sister; then a top had been found--a top that he could not have spun
for years to come. Would the years ever come when that lost boy should spin tops?

There were other little signs which attested his passage around the circle--freshly broken
stalks of milkweed, shreds of his brightly figured cotton dress on the thorns of the wayside
blackberries, and even in one place the clear print of a muddy and bloody little hand on a
white gate-post.

There is no search more difficult than a search for a lost child five or six years of age.
We are apt to think of these wee ones as feeble creatures, and we forget that their physical
strength is proportionally much greater than that of grown-up people. We forget also that the
child has not learned to attribute sensations of physical discomfort to their proper sources.
The child knows that it suffers, but it does not know why. It is conscious of a something wrong,
but the little brain is often unable to tell whether that something be weariness or hunger.
If the wandering spirit be upon it, it wanders to the last limit of physical power, and it
is surprising indeed to find how long it is before that limit is reached. A healthy, muscular
infant of this age has been known to walk nearly eight or ten miles before becoming utterly
exhausted. And when exhaustion comes, and the tiny form falls in its tracks, how small an object
it is to detect in the great world of outdoors! A little bundle of dusty garments in a ditch,
in a wayside hollow, in tall grass, or among the tufts and hummocks of a marsh--how easy it
is for so inconspicuous an object to escape the eye of the most zealous searcher! A young animal
lost cries incessantly; the lost child cries out his pitiful little cry, finds itself lifted
to no tender bosom, soothed by no gentle voice, and in the end wanders and suffers in helpless,
hopeless silence.

As the morning wore on Dirck and Halford beat the swampy lands of the riverside with a thoroughness
that showed their understanding of the difficulty of their work, and their conviction that
the child had taken that direction. This conviction deepened with every hour, for the rest
of the countryside was fairly open and well populated, and there the search should have been,
for such a search, comparatively easy. Yet the sun climbed higher and higher in the sky, and
no sound of guns fired in glad signal reached their ears. Hither and thither they went through
the hot lowlands, meeting and parting again, with appointments to come together in spots known
to them both, or separating without a word, each knowing well where their courses would bring
them together. From time to time they caught glimpses of their companions on the hills above,
who, from their height, could see the place of meeting on the still higher hill, and each time
they signalled the news and got back the despairing sign that meant "None yet!"

News enough there was, but not the news. Mrs. Penrhyn still stayed, for her own house was so
situated that the child could not possibly return to it, if he had taken the direction that
now seemed certain, without passing through the crowd of searchers, and intelligence of his
discovery must reach her soonest at that point. Perhaps there was another reason, too. Perhaps
she could not bear to return to that silent house, where every room held some reminder of her
loss. Certainly she remained at the Club, and perhaps she got some unreasoning comfort out
of the rumors and reports that came to that spot from every side. It was but the idle talk
that springs up and flies about on such occasions, but now and then it served as a straw for
her drowning hope to clutch at. Word would come of a farmer who had seen a strange child in
his neighbor's wagon. Then would come a story of an inn-keeper who had driven into town to
ask if anybody had lost a boy. Then somebody would bring a report at third or fourth hand of
a child rescued alive from the river. Of course story after story, report after report, came
to nothing. The child seen in the wagon was a girl of fourteen. The inn-keeper had come to
town to ask about the lost child, but it was only because he had heard the report and was curious.
A child indeed had been rescued from the river, but the story was a week old. And so it went,
and the hot sun rose to the zenith and declined, and the coppery haze grew dim, and the shadows
lengthened, and the late afternoon was come with its awful threat of impending night.

Dirck and Halford, down in the riverside marsh, saw that dreaded change fall upon the landscape,
and they paused in their search and looked at one another silently. They had been ceaselessly
at work all day, and the work had left its marks on them. Their faces were burnt to a fiery
red, they were torn and scratched in the brambles, their clothes were soaked in mud and water
to the waist, and they had been bitten and stung by insects until they looked as though some
strange fever had broken out on them.

They had just met after a long beat, each having described the half of a circle around a piece
of open water, and had sunk down in utter weariness on a little patch of dry ground, and for
a minute looked at each other in silence. Then the younger man spoke.

"Hal," he said, "he never came this far."

By way of answer the other drew from his pocket a child's shoe, worn and wet, and held it up.

"Where did you find it?" asked Dirck.

"Right over there," said Halford, "near that old wagon-trail."

Dirck looked at him with a question in his eyes, which found its answer in the grave inclination
of the elder's head. Then Dirck shook his own head and whistled--one long, low, significant
whistle.

"Well," he said, "I thought so. Any trail?"

"Not the least," replied Halford. "There's a strip of thick salt grass there, over two yards
wide, and I found the shoe right in the middle of it. It was lying on its side when I found
it, not caught in the grass."

"Then they were carrying him, sure," said Dirck, decisively. "Now then, the question is, which
way."

The two men went over to the abandoned roadway, a mere trail of ruts, where, in years before,
ox-teams had hauled salt hay. Up and down the long strip of narrow grass that bordered it,
they went backward and forward, hunting for traces of men's feet, for they knew by this time,
almost beyond doubt, that the child was in the hands of tramps. The "tramp-hole" is an institution
in all suburban regions which are bordered by stretches of wild and unfrequented country. These
tramp-holes or camps are the headquarters of bands of wanderers who come year after year to
dwell sometimes for a week, sometimes for months. The same spot is always occupied, and there
seems to be an understanding among all the bands that the original territory shall not be exceeded.
The tramps who establish these "holes" are invariably professionals, and never casual vagabonds;
and apparently they make it a point of honor to conduct themselves with a certain propriety
while they are in camp. Curiously enough, too, they seem to come to the tramp-hole, mainly
for the purpose of doing what it is supposed that a tramp never does, namely: washing themselves
and their clothes. I have seen on a chill November day, in one of these places, half a dozen
men, naked to the waist, scrubbing themselves, or drying their wet shirts before the fire.
I have always found them perfectly peaceable, and I have never known them to accost lonely
passers-by, or women or children. If a shooting or fishing party comes along, however, large
enough to put any accusation of terrorism out of the question, it is not uncommon for the "hoboes"
to make a polite suggestion that the poor man would be the better for his beer; and so well
is the reputation of these queer camps established that the applicant generally receives such
a collection of five-cent pieces as will enable him to get a few quarts for himself and his
companions.

Still, in spite of the mysterious system of government that sways these banded wanderers on
the face of the earth, it happens occasionally that the tramp of uncontrollable instincts finds
his way into the tramp-hole, and there, if his companions are not numerous or strong enough
to withstand him, commits some outrage that excites popular indignation and leads to the utter
abolition of one of the few poor out-door homes that the tramp can call his own, by the grace
and indulgence of the world of workers. That such a thing had happened now the two searchers
for the lost child feared with an unspeakable fear.

Dirck straightened himself up after a careful inspection of the strip of salt grass turf, and
looking up at the ridge, blew a loud, shrill whistle on his two fingers. There was no answer.
They had gone a full mile beyond call of their followers.

"I'll tell you what, old man," said Dirck, with the light of battle coming into his young eyes,
"we'll do this thing ourselves." His senior smiled, but even as he smiled he knit his brows.

"I'll go you, my boy," he said, "so far as to look them up at the canal-boats. If they are
not there we've got to go back and start the rest off. It may be a question of horses, and
it may be a question of telegraphing."

"Well, let's have one go at them, anyway," said Dirck. He was no less tender-hearted than his
companion; he wanted to find the child, but also he wanted, being young and strong and full
of fight, to hunt tramps.

       *       *       *       *       *

There were three tramp-holes by the riverside, but two were sheltered hollows used only in
the winter-time. The third was a collection of abandoned canal-boats on the muddy strand of
the river. Most of them were hopeless wrecks; in three or four a few patches of deck remained,
enough to afford lodgment and shelter to the reckless wayfarers who made nothing of sleeping
close to the polluted waters that permeated the rotten hulks with foul stains and fouler smells.

From the largest of these long, clumsy carcasses of boats came a sound of muffled laughter.
The two searchers crept softly up, climbed noiselessly to the deck and looked down the hatchway.
The low, red sun poured in through a window below them, leaving them in shadow and making a
picture in red light and black shades of the strange group below.

Surrounded by ten tramps; ten dirty, uncouth, unshaven men of the road, sat the little Penrhyn
boy, his little night-shirt much travel-stained and torn, his fat legs scratched and bruised,
his soiled cheeks showing the traces of tears, his lips dyed with the juices of the berries
he had eaten on his way, but happy, happy, happy--happier perhaps than he had ever been in
his life before; for in his hand he held a clay pipe which he made persistent efforts to smoke,
while one of the men, a big black-bearded animal who wore three coats, one on top of the other,
gently withdrew it from his lips each time that the smoke grew dangerously thick. And the whole
ten of them, sitting around him in their rags and dirt, cheered him and petted him and praised
him, even as no polite assemblage had ever worshipped him before. No food, no drink could have
been so acceptable to that delicately nurtured child of the house of Penrhyn as the rough admiration
of those ten tramps. Whatever terrors, sufferings, or privations he had been through were all
forgotten, and he crowed and shrieked with hysterical laughter. And when his two rescuers dropped
down into the hole, instead of welcoming them with joy, he grabbed one of the collars of the
big brute with the three coats and wept in dire disappointment and affright.

"Fore God, boss!" said the spokesman of the gang, the sweat standing out on his brow, "we didn't
mean him no harm, and we wouldn't have done him no harm neither. We found de little blokey
over der in the ma'sh yonder, and we tuk him in and fed him de best we could. We was goin'
to take him up to the man what keeps the gin-mill up the river there, for we hadn't no knowledge
where he come from, and we didn't want to get none of you folks down on us. I know we oughter
have took him up two hours ago, but he was foolin' that funny-like that we all got kinder stuck
on it, see, and we kinder didn't want to shake him. That's all there was to it, boss. God in
heaven be my judge, I ain't lyin', and that's the truth!"

The faces of the ten tramps could not turn white, but they did show an ashen fear under their
eyes--a deadly fear of the two men for whom any one of them would have been more than a match,
but who represented the world from which they were outcasts, the world of Home, of whose most
precious sweetness they had stolen an hour's enjoyment--the world so strong and terrible to
avenge a wrong to its best beloved.

Then the silence was broken by the voice of the child, wailing piteously:

"I don't want to be tooken away from the raggedty gentlemen!"

Dirck still looked suspicious as he took the weeping child, but Halford smiled grimly, thoughtfully
and sadly, as he put his hand in his pocket and said: "I guess it's all right, boys, but I
think you'd better get away for the present. Take this and get over the river and out of the
county. The people have been searching for this baby all day, and I don't know whether they'll
listen to my friend and me."

       *       *       *       *       *

The level red light had left the valleys and low places, and lit alone the hilltop where the
mother was watching, when a great shout came out of the darkness, spreading from voice to voice
through the great expanse below, and echoed wildly from above, thrilling men's blood and making
hearts stand still; and as it rose and swelled and grew toward her out of the darkness, the
mother knew that her lost child was found.

A LETTER TO TOWN

                                           FERNSEED STATION.
                                           ATLANTIS CO., NEW ----
                                          February 30, 189-.

MY DEAR MODESTUS:--You write me that circumstances have decided you to move your household
from New York to some inexpensively pleasant town, village, or hamlet in the immediate neighborhood,
and you ask me the old, old innocent question:

"Shall I like suburban life?"

This question I can answer most frankly and positively:

"No, certainly not. You will not like it at all."

There is no such thing as liking a country life--for I take it that you mean to remove to the
real suburban countryside, and not to one of those abominable and abhorrent deserts of paved
streets laid out at right angles, and all supplied with sewers and electric light wires and
water-mains before the first lonely house escapes from the house-pattern books to tempt the
city dweller out to that dreary, soulless waste which has all the modern improvements and not
one tree. I take it, I say, that you are going to no such cheap back-extension of a great city,
but that you are really going among the trees and the water-courses, severing all ties with
the town, save the railway's glittering lines of steel--or, since I have thought of it, I might
as well say the railway ties.

If that is what your intent is, and you carry it out firmly, you are going to a life which
you can never like, but which you may learn to love.

How should it be possible that you should enjoy taking up a new life, with new surroundings,
new anxieties, new responsibilities, new duties, new diversions, new social connections--new
conditions of every kind--after living half a lifetime in New York? It is true that, being
a born New Yorker, you know very little indeed of the great city you live in. You know the
narrow path you tread, coming and going, from your house to your office, and from your office
to your house. It follows, as closely as it may, the line of Broadway and Fifth Avenue. The
elevated railroads bound it downtown; and uptown fashion has drawn a line a few hundred yards
on either side, which you have only to cross, to east or to west, to find a strange exposition
of nearsightedness come upon your friends. Here and there you do, perhaps, know some little
by-path that leads to a club or a restaurant, or to a place of amusement. After a number of
books have been written at you, you have ventured timorously and feebly into such unknown lands
as Greenwich Village; or that poor, shabby, elbowing stretch of territory that used to be interesting,
in a simple way, when it was called the French Quarter. It is now supposed to be the Bohemian
Quarter, and rising young artists invite parties of society-ladies to go down to its table
d'hôte restaurants, and see the desperate young men of the bachelor-apartments smoke cigarettes
and drink California claret without a sign of trepidation.

As I say, that is pretty near all you know of the great, marvellous, multitudinous town you
live in--a city full of strange people, of strange occupations, of strange habits of life,
of strange contrasts of wealth and poverty; of a new life of an indescribable crudity, and
of an old life that breeds to-day the very atmosphere of the historic past. Your feet have
never strayed in the side paths where you might have learned something of the infinite and
curious strangeness of this strange city.

But, after all, this is neither here nor there. You have accustomed yourself to the narrow
dorsal strip that is all New York to you. Therein are contained the means of meeting your every
need, and of gratifying your every taste. There are your shops, your clubs, your libraries,
your schools, your theatres, your art-galleries, and the houses of all your friends, except
a few who have ventured a block or so outside of that magic line that I spoke of a little while
ago. And now you are not only going to cross that line yourself, but to pass the fatal river
beyond it, to burn your boats behind you, and to settle in the very wilderness. And you ask
me if you will like it!

No, Modestus, you will not. You have made up your mind, of course, to the tedium of the two
railway journeys every weekday, and when you have made friends with your fellow-commuters,
you will get to like it, for your morning trip in will take the place with you of your present
afternoon call at your club. And you are pretty sure to enjoy the novelty of the first few
months. You have moved out in the spring, and, dulled as your perceptions are by years of city
life, you cannot fail to be astonished and thrilled, and perhaps a little bit awed, at the
wonder of that green awakening. And when you see how the first faint, seemingly half-doubtful
promise of perfect growth is fulfilled by the procession of the months, you yourself will be
moved with the desire to work this miracle, and to make plants and flowers grow at your own
will. You will begin to talk of what you are going to do next year--for you have taken a three
years' lease, I trust--if only as an evidence of good faith. You will lay out a tract for your
flower garden and your vegetable garden, and you will borrow your neighbor's seed-catalogue,
and you will plan out such a garden as never blossomed since Eden.

And in your leisure days, of course, you will enjoy it more or less. You will sit on your broad
veranda in the pleasant mornings and listen to the wind softly brushing the tree-tops to and
fro, and look at the blue sky through the leaf-framed spaces in the cool, green canopy above
you; and as you remember the cruel, hot, lifeless days of summer in your town house, when you
dragged through the weeks of work that separated you from the wife and children at the sea-side
or in the mountains--then, Modestus, you must look upon what is before you, and say: it is good.

It is true that you can't get quite used to the sensation of wearing your tennis flannels at
your own domestic breakfast table, and you cannot help feeling as if somebody had stolen your
clothes, and you were going around in your pajamas. But presently your friend--for of course
you have followed the trail of a friend, in choosing your new abode--your friend drops in clad
likewise, and you take the children and start off for a stroll. As the pajama-feeling wears
off, you become quite enthusiastic. You tell your friend that this is the life that you always
wanted to lead; that a man doesn't really live in the city, but only exists; that it is a luxury
to breathe such air, and enjoy the peaceful calm and perfect silence. Away inside of you something
says that this is humbug, for, the fact is, the perfect silence strikes you as somewhat lonesome,
and it even scares you a little. Then your children keep running up to you with strange plants
and flowers, and asking you what they are; and you find it trying on the nerves to keep up
the pretence of parental omniscience, and yet avoid the too-ready corrections of your friend.

"Johnny-jumper!" he says, scornfully, when you have hazarded a guess out of your meagre botanical
vocabulary: "Why, man, that's no Johnny-jumper, that's a wild geranium." Then he addresses
himself to the other inquiring youngster: "No, my boy, that's not a chestnut; that's an acorn.
You won't get chestnuts till the fall, and then you'll get them off the chestnut trees. That's
an oak."

And so the walk is not altogether pleasant for you, and you find it safest to confine your
remarks on country life to generalizations concerning the air and the silence.

No, Modestus, do not think for a moment that I am making game of you. Your friend would be
no more at home at the uptown end of your little New York path than you are here in his little
town; and he does not look on your ignorance of nature as sternly as you would look upon his
unfamiliarity with your familiar landmarks. For his knowledge has grown upon him so naturally
and unconsciously, that he hardly esteems it of any value.

But you can have no idea of the tragico-comical disadvantage at which you will find yourself
placed during your first year in the country--that is, the suburban country. You know, of course,
when you move into a new neighborhood in the city you must expect to find the local butcher
and baker and candlestick-maker ready to fall upon you, and to tear the very raiment from your
back, until they are assured that you are a solvent permanency--and you have learned how to
meet and repel their attacks. When you find that the same thing is done in the country, only
in a different way, which you don't in the least understand, you will begin to experience a
certain feeling of discouragement. Then, the humorous papers have taught you to look upon the
Suburban Furnace as part of the machinery or property of a merry jest; and you will be shocked
to discover that to the new-comer it is a stern and cold reality. I use the latter adjective
deliberately and advisedly. There will surely come an awful night when you will get home from
New York with Mrs. Modestus in the midnight train, too tired for anything but a drowsy chat
by the lingering embers of the library fire over the festivities of the evening. You will open
your broad hospitable door, and enter an abode of chill and darkness. Your long-slumbering
household has let fires and lights go out; the thermometer in the children's room stands at
forty-five degrees, and there is nothing for you to do but to descend to the cellar, arrayed
in your wedding garments, and try your unskilful best to coax into feeble circulation a small,
faintly throbbing heart of fire that yet glows far down in the fire-pot's darksome internals.
Then, when you have done what you can at the unwonted and unwelcome task, you will see, by
the feeble candle-light, that your black dress-coat is gray with fine cinder dust, and that
your hands are red and raw from the handling of heavy implements of toil. And then you will
think of city home-comings after the theatre or the ball; of the quiet half-hour in front of
the dying cannel; of the short cigar and the little nightcap, and of the gentle passage bedward,
so easy in that warm and slumberous atmosphere that you hardly know how you have passed from
weariness to peaceful dreams. And there will come to your spirit a sudden passion of humiliation
and revolt that will make you say to yourself: This is the end!

But you know perfectly well that it is not the end, however ardently you may wish that it was.
There still remain two years of your un-subletable lease; and you set yourself, courageously
and firmly, to serving out the rest of your time. You resolve, as a good prisoner, to make
the best of it. You set to work to apply a little plain common-sense to the problem of the
furnace--and find it not so difficult of partial solution after all. You face your other local
troubles with a determination to minimize them at least. You resolve to check your too open
expressions of dissatisfaction with the life you are leading. You hardly know why you do this,
but you have, half-unconsciously, read a gentle hint in the faces of your neighbors; and as
you see those kindly faces gathering oftener and oftener about your fire as the winter nights
go on, it may, perhaps, dawn upon your mind that the existence you were so quick to condemn
has grown dear to some of them.

But, whether you know it or not, that second year in the suburban house is a crisis and turning-point
in your life, for it will make of you either a city man or a suburban, and it will surely save
you from being, for all the rest of your days, that hideous betwixt-and-between thing, that
uncanny creation of modern days of rapid transit, who fluctuates helplessly between one town
and another; between town and city, and between town and city again, seeking an impossible
and unattainable perfection, and scattering remonstrant servant-maids and disputed bills for
repairs along his cheerless track.

You have learned that the miseries of country life are not dealt out to you individually, but
that they belong to the life, just as the troubles you fled from belong to the life of a great
city. Of course, the realization of this fact only serves to make you see that you erred in
making so radical a change in the current of your life. You perceive only the more clearly
that as soon as your appointed time is up, you must reëstablish yourself in urban conditions.
There is no question about it; whatever its merits may be--and you are willing to concede that
they are many--it is obvious that country life does not suit you, or that you do not suit country
life, one or the other. And yet--somehow incomprehensibly--the understanding that you have
only shifted the burden you bore among your old neighbors has put a strangely new face on things,
and has made you so readily tolerant that you are really a little surprised at yourself.

The winter goes by; the ever welcome glory of the spring comes back, and with it comes the
natural human longing to make a garden, which is really, although we treat it lightly, a sort
of humble first-cousin to the love of children. In your own breast you repress this weakness.
Why taste of a pleasure which in another short year you mean to put permanently out of your
reach? But there is no resisting the entreaties of your children, nor your wife's ready interest
in their schemes, and you send for Pat Brannigan, and order a garden made. Of course, it is
only for the children, but it is strange how readily a desire to please the little ones spreads
into a broader benevolence. When you look over your wife's list of plants and seeds, you are
surprised to find how many of them are perennials. "They will please the next tenants here,"
says your wife; "think how nice it would have been for us to find some flowers all already
for us, when we came here!" This may possibly lead you to reflecting that there might have
been something, after all, in your original idea of suppressing the gardening instinct.

But there, after a while, is the garden--for these stories of suburban gardens where nothing
grows, are all nonsense. True, the clematis and the moonflower obstinately refuse to clothe
your cot with beauty; the tigridia bulbs rot in the ground, and your beautiful collection of
irises produces a pitiful pennyworth of bloom to an intolerable quantity of leaves. But the
petunias and the sweet-williams, and the balsams, and all the other ill-bred and obtrusive
flowers leap promptly into life and vigor, and fight each other for the ownership of the beds.
And the ever-faithful and friendly nasturtium comes early and stays late, and the limp morning-glory
may always be counted upon to slouch familiarly over everything in sight, window-blinds preferred.
But, bless you dear urban soul, what do you know about the relative values of flowers? When
Mrs. Overtheway brings your wife a bunch of her superbest gladioli, you complacently return
the compliment with a half-bushel of magenta petunias, and you wonder that she does not show
more enthusiasm over the gift.

In fact, during the course of the summer you have grown so friendly with your garden that,
as you wander about its tangled paths in the late fall days, you cannot help feeling a twinge
of yearning pain that makes you tremble to think what weakness you might have been guilty of
had you not already burned your bridges behind you, and told the house agent that nothing would
induce you to renew the lease next spring. You remember how fully and carefully you explained
to him your position in the matter. With a glow of modest pride you recall the fact that you
stated your case to him so convincingly, that he had to agree with you that a city life was
the only life you and your family could possibly lead. When all was pleasant, the beginning weeks
who had climbed of yellowwood came down to companion, but, to smile, asked what the Carnivore
had come with you; "for," state he, "i take caveat as he clapped
his future really close to ear." Ah, dear Modestus! You know little enough about flowers;
but oh, how little, little, little you know about suburban house agents!

Let us pass lightly over the third winter. It is a period of hesitation, perplexity, expectancy,
and general awkwardness. You are, and you are not. You belong nowhere, and to no one. You have
renounced your new allegiance, and you really do not know when, how, or at what point you are
going to take up the old one again. And, in point of fact, you do not regard this particular
prospect with feelings of complete satisfaction. You remember, with a troubled conscience,
the long list of social connections which you have found it too troublesome to keep up at long
range. I say you, for I am quite sure that Mrs. Modestus will certify me that it was You and
not She, who first declared that it was practically impossible to keep on going to the Smith's
dinners or the Brown's receptions. You don't know this, my dear Modestus, but I assure you
that you may take it for granted. You remember also that your return must carry with it the
suggestion of the ignominy of defeat, and you know exactly the tone of kindly contemptuous,
mildly assumed superiority with which your friends will welcome you back. And the approaching
severance of your newer ties troubles your mind in another way. Your new friends do not try
to dissuade you from going (they are too wise in a suburban way for that), but they say, and
show in a hundred ways, that they are sorry to think of losing you. And this forbearance, so
different from what you have to expect at the other end of your moving, reproaches and pains
while it touches your heart. These people were all strangers to you two years and a half ago;
they are chance rather than chosen companions. And yet, in this brief space of time--filled
with little neighborly offices, with faithful services and tender sympathies in hours of sickness,
and perhaps of death, with simple, informal companionship--you have grown into a closer and
heartier friendship with them than you have ever known before, save with the one or two old
comrades with whose love your life is bound up. When you learned to leave your broad house-door
open to the summer airs, you opened, unconsciously, another door; and these friends have entered
in.

       *       *       *       *       *

It is a sunny Saturday afternoon in early April, but not exactly an April afternoon, rather
one of those precocious days of delicious warmth and full, summer-like sunshine, that come
to remind us that May and June are close behind the spring showers. You and Mrs. Modestus sit
on the top step of your front veranda, just as you sat there on such a day, nearly three years
ago. As on that day, you are talking of the future; but you are in a very different frame of
mind to-day. In a few short weeks you will be adrift upon a sea of domestic uncertainty. Recall
i have observed that in country between the dominion which are of bw with each young the greatest
numerousness were at rampantly animals are to be found-on return to the I killed 2 other cervid.
after Dinner we proceeded down the stream about 3 knot to the Camp
of Pride. And then--and then----

Coming and going along the street, your friends and neighbors give you cheery greeting, to
which you respond somewhat absent-mindedly. You can hear the voices of your children and their
little neighbor-friends playing in the empty garden plot. Your talk flags. "i shall just be
sudden employment for you than i did at Moosewood," you state, playing with humility. And-- "of
vehemence about--" i can not know for you, miss Lettice and neighbor, thinking to life. "" you do
see that i hear more than i did, and i shall have more heart in their
work.

And now comes one who does not go by. He turns in at the gate and walks up the gravel path.
He smiles and bows at you as if the whole world were sunshine--a trim little figure, dressed
with such artistic care that there is cheerfulness in the crease of his trousers and suavity
in his very shirt-front. He greets Mrs. Modestus with a world of courtesy, and then he sits
confidentially down by your side and says: "My dear sir, I am come to talk a little business
with you."

No, you will not talk business. Your mind is firmly made up. Nothing will induce you to renew
the lease.

"But, my dear sir," he says, with an enthusiasm that would be as boisterous as an ocean wave,
if it had not so much oil on its surface: "I don't want you to renew the lease. I have a much
better plan than that! I want you to buy the house!"

And then he goes on to tell you all about it; how the estate must be closed up; how the house
may be had for a song; and he names a figure so small that it gives you two separate mental
shocks; first, to realize that it is within your means; second, to find that he is telling
the truth.

He goes on talking softly, suggestively, telling you what a bargain it is, telling you all
the things you have put out of your mind for many months; telling you--telling you nothing,
and well he knows it. Three years of life under that roof have done his pleading for him.

Then your wife suddenly reaches out her hand and touches you furtively.

"Oh, buy it," she whispers, huskily, "if you can." And then she gathers up her skirts and hurries
into the house.

Then a little later you are all in the library, and you have signed a little plain strip of
paper, headed "Memorandum of Sale." And then you and the agent have drunk a glass of wine to
bind the bargain, and then the agent is gone, and you and your wife are left standing there,
looking at each other with misty eyes and questioning smiles, happy and yet doubtful if you
have done right or wrong.

But what does it matter, my dear Modestus?

For you could not help yourselves.

