Pipes in the garden, lutes in the palace, paganism, Revolution--the situation was becoming
mixed, and I should not have been surprised at a ghostly procession from the Place de la Concorde,
through the western gates, of the thousands of headless nobility, victims of the axe and the
basket; but, thank Heaven, nothing of that sort appeared to add to the wonders of the night;
yet, as I turned a moment from the dancers, I thought I saw something move in the shrubbery.
The Laocoon? It could not be. The arms moving? Yes. As I drew nearer the arms distinctly moved,
putting away at length the coiling serpent, and pushing from the pedestal the old-men boys,
his comrades in agony. Laocoon shut his mouth, which had been stretched open for about eighteen
centuries, untwisted the last coil of the snake, and stepped down, a free man. After this it
did not surprise me to see Spartacus also step down and approach him, and the two ancients
square off for fisticuffs, as if they had done it often before, enjoying at night the release
from the everlasting pillory of art. It was the hour of releases, and I found myself in a moment
in the midst of a "classic revival," whimsical beyond description. Aeneas hastened to deposit
his aged father in a heap on the gravel and ran after the Sylvan Nymphs; Theseus gave the Minotaur
a respite; Themistocles was bending over the dying Spartan, who was coming to life; Venus Pudica
was waltzing about the diagonal basin with Antinous; Ascanius was playing marbles with the
infant Hercules. In this unreal phantasmagoria it was a relief to me to see walking in the
area of the private garden two men: the one a stately person with a kingly air, a handsome
face, his head covered with a huge wig that fell upon his shoulders; the other a farmer-like
man, stout and ungracious, the counterpart of the pictures of the intendant Colbert. He was
pointing up to the palace, and seemed to be speaking of some alterations, to which talk the
other listened impatiently. I wondered what Napoleon, who by this time was probably dreaming
of Mexico, would have said if he had looked out and seen, not one man in the garden, but dozens
of men, and all the stir that I saw; if he had known, indeed, that the Great Monarch was walking
under his windows.

I said it was a relief to me to see two real men, but I had no reason to complain of solitude
thereafter till daybreak. That any one saw or noticed me I doubt, and I soon became so reassured
that I had more delight than fear in watching the coming and going of personages I had supposed
dead a hundred years and more; the appearance at windows of faces lovely, faces sad, faces
terror-stricken; the opening of casements and the dropping of billets into the garden; the
flutter of disappearing robes; the faint sounds of revels from the interior of the palace;
the hurrying of feet, the flashing of lights, the clink of steel, that told of partings and
sudden armings, and the presence of a king that will be denied at no doors. I saw through the
windows of the long Galerie de Diane the roues of the Regency at supper, and at table with
them a dark, semi-barbarian little man in a coat of Russian sable, the coolest head in Europe
at a drinking-bout. I saw enter the south pavilion a tall lady in black, with the air of a
royal procuress; and presently crossed the garden and disappeared in the pavilion a young Parisian
girl, and then another and another, a flock of innocents, and I thought instantly of the dreadful
Parc aux Cerfs at Versailles.

So wrought upon was I by the sight of this infamy that I scarcely noticed the incoming of a
royal train at the southern end of the palace, and notably in it a lady with light hair and
noble mien, and the look in her face of a hunted lioness at bay. I say scarcely, for hardly
had the royal cortege passed within, when there arose a great clamor in the inner court, like
the roar of an angry multitude, a scuffling of many feet, firing of guns, thrusting of pikes,
followed by yells of defiance in mingled French and German, the pitching of Swiss Guards from
doorways and windows, and the flashing of flambeaux that ran hither and thither. "Oh!" I said,
"Paris has come to call upon its sovereign; the pikemen of Paris, led by the bold Barbaroux."

The tumult subsided as suddenly as it had risen, hushed, I imagined, by the jarring of cannon
from the direction of St. Roch; and in the quiet I saw a little soldier alight at the Rue de
Rivoli gate--a little man whom you might mistake for a corporal of the guard--with a wild,
coarse-featured Corsican (say, rather, Basque) face, his disordered chestnut hair darkened
to black locks by the use of pomatum--a face selfish and false, but determined as fate. So
this was the beginning of the Napoleon "legend"; and by-and-by this coarse head will be idealized
into the Roman Emperor type, in which I myself might have believed but for the revelations
of the night of strange adventure.

What is history? What is this drama and spectacle, that has been put forth as history, but
a cover for petty intrigue, and deceit, and selfishness, and cruelty? A man shut into the Tuileries
Garden begins to think that it is all an illusion, the trick of a disordered fancy. Who was
Grand, who was Well-Beloved, who was Desired, who was the Idol of the French, who was worthy
to be called a King of the Citizens? Oh, for the light of day!

And it came, faint and tremulous, touching the terraces of the palace and the Column of Luxor.
But what procession was that moving along the southern terrace? A squad of the National Guard
on horseback, a score or so of King's officers, a King on foot, walking with uncertain step,
a Queen leaning on his arm, both habited in black, moved out of the western gate. The King
and the Queen paused a moment on the very spot where Louis XVI. was beheaded, and then got
into a carriage drawn by one horse and were driven rapidly along the quays in the direction
of St. Cloud. And again Revolution, on the heels of the fugitives, poured into the old palace
and filled it with its tatterdemalions.

Enough for me that daylight began to broaden. "Sleep on," I said, "O real President, real Emperor
(by the grace of coup d'etat) at last, in the midst of the most virtuous court in Europe, loved
of good Americans, eternally established in the hearts of your devoted Parisians! Peace to
the palace and peace to its lovely garden, of both of which I have had quite enough for one night!"

The sun came up, and, as I looked about, all the shades and concourse of the night had vanished.
Day had begun in the vast city, with all its roar and tumult; but the garden gates would not
open till seven, and I must not be seen before the early stragglers should enter and give me
a chance of escape. In my circumstances I would rather be the first to enter than the first
to go out in the morning, past those lynx-eyed gendarmes. From my covert I eagerly watched
for my coming deliverers. The first to appear was a 'chiffonnier,' who threw his sack and pick
down by the basin, bathed his face, and drank from his hand. It seemed to me almost like an
act of worship, and I would have embraced that rag-picker as a brother. But I knew that such
a proceeding, in the name even of egalite and fraternite would have been misinterpreted; and
I waited till two and three and a dozen entered by this gate and that, and I was at full liberty
to stretch my limbs and walk out upon the quay as nonchalant as if I had been taking a morning
stroll.

I have reason to believe that the police of Paris never knew where I spent the night of the
18th of June. It must have mystified them.

TRUTHFULNESS

Truthfulness is as essential in literature as it is in conduct, in fiction as it is in the
report of an actual occurrence. Falsehood vitiates a poem, a painting, exactly as it does a
life. Truthfulness is a quality like simplicity. Simplicity in literature is mainly a matter
of clear vision and lucid expression, however complex the subject-matter may be; exactly as
in life, simplicity does not so much depend upon external conditions as upon the spirit in
which one lives. It may be more difficult to maintain simplicity of living with a great fortune
than in poverty, but simplicity of spirit--that is, superiority of soul to circumstance--is
possible in any condition. Unfortunately the common expression that a certain person has wealth
is not so true as it would be to say that wealth has him. The life of one with great possessions
and corresponding responsibilities may be full of complexity; the subject of literary art may
be exceedingly complex; but we do not set complexity over against simplicity. For simplicity
is a quality essential to true life as it is to literature of the first class; it is opposed
to parade, to artificiality, to obscurity.

The quality of truthfulness is not so easily defined. It also is a matter of spirit and intuition.
We have no difficulty in applying the rules of common morality to certain functions of writers
for the public, for instance, the duties of the newspaper reporter, or the newspaper correspondent,
or the narrator of any event in life the relation of which owes its value to its being absolutely
true. The same may be said of hoaxes, literary or scientific, however clear they may be. The
person indulging in them not only discredits his office in the eyes of the public, but he injures
his own moral fibre, and he contracts such a habit of unveracity that he never can hope for
genuine literary success. For there never was yet any genuine success in letters without integrity.
The clever hoax is no better than the trick of imitation, that is, conscious imitation of another,
which has unveracity to one's self at the bottom of it. Burlesque is not the highest order
of intellectual performance, but it is legitimate, and if cleverly done it may be both useful
and amusing, but it is not to be confounded with forgery, that is, with a composition which
the author attempts to pass off as the production of somebody else. The forgery may be amazingly
smart, and be even popular, and get the author, when he is discovered, notoriety, but it is
pretty certain that with his ingrained lack of integrity he will never accomplish any original
work of value, and he will be always personally suspected. There is nothing so dangerous to
a young writer as to begin with hoaxing; or to begin with the invention, either as reporter
or correspondent, of statements put forward as facts, which are untrue. This sort of facility
and smartness may get a writer employment, unfortunately for him and the public, but there
is no satisfaction in it to one who desires an honorable career. It is easy to recall the names
of brilliant men whose fine talents have been eaten away by this habit of unveracity. This
habit is the greatest danger of the newspaper press of the United States.

It is easy to define this sort of untruthfulness, and to study the moral deterioration it works
in personal character, and in the quality of literary work. It was illustrated in the forgeries
of the marvelous boy Chatterton. The talent he expended in deception might have made him an
enviable reputation,--the deception vitiated whatever good there was in his work. Fraud in
literature is no better than fraud in archaeology, --Chatterton deserves no more credit than
Shapiro who forged the Moabite pottery with its inscriptions. The reporter who invents an incident,
or heightens the horror of a calamity by fictions is in the case of Shapiro. The habit of this
sort of invention is certain to destroy the writer's quality, and if he attempts a legitimate
work of the imagination, he will carry the same unveracity into that. The quality of truthfulness
cannot be juggled with. Akin to this is the trick which has put under proper suspicion some
very clever writers of our day, and cost them all public confidence in whatever they do,--the
trick of posing for what they are not. We do not mean only that the reader does not believe
their stories of personal adventure, and regards them personally as "frauds," but that this
quality of deception vitiates all their work, as seen from a literary point of view. We mean
that the writer who hoaxes the public, by inventions which he publishes as facts, or in regard
to his own personality, not only will lose the confidence of the public but he will lose the
power of doing genuine work, even in the field of fiction. Good work is always characterized
by integrity.

These illustrations help us to understand what is meant by literary integrity. For the deception
in the case of the correspondent who invents "news" is of the same quality as the lack of sincerity
in a poem or in a prose fiction; there is a moral and probably a mental defect in both. The
story of Robinson Crusoe is a very good illustration of veracity in fiction. It is effective
because it has the simple air of truth; it is an illusion that satisfies; it is possible; it
is good art: but it has no moral deception in it. In fact, looked at as literature, we can
see that it is sincere and wholesome.

What is this quality of truthfulness which we all recognize when it exists in fiction? There
is much fiction, and some of it, for various reasons, that we like and find interesting which
is nevertheless insincere if not artificial. We see that the writer has not been honest with
himself or with us in his views of human life. There may be just as much lying in novels as
anywhere else. The novelist who offers us what he declares to be a figment of his own brain
may be just as untrue as the reporter who sets forth a figment of his own brain which he declares
to be a real occurrence. That is, just as much faithfulness to life is required of the novelist
as of the reporter, and in a much higher degree. The novelist must not only tell the truth
about life as he sees it, material and spiritual, but he must be faithful to his own conceptions.
If fortunately he has genius enough to create a character that has reality to himself and to
others, he must be faithful to that character. He must have conscience about it, and not misrepresent
it, any more than he would misrepresent the sayings and doings of a person in real life. Of
course if his own conception is not clear, he will be as unjust as in writing about a person
in real life whose character he knew only by rumor. The novelist may be mistaken about his
own creations and in his views of life, but if he have truthfulness in himself, sincerity will
show in his work.

Truthfulness is a quality that needs to be as strongly insisted on in literature as simplicity.
But when we carry the matter a step further, we see that there cannot be truthfulness about
life without knowledge. The world is full of novels, and their number daily increases, written
without any sense of responsibility, and with very little experience, which are full of false
views of human nature and of society. We can almost always tell in a fiction when the writer
passes the boundary of his own experience and observation--he becomes unreal, which is another
name for untruthful. And there is an absence of sincerity in such work. There seems to be a
prevailing impression that any one can write a story. But it scarcely need be said that literature
is an art, like painting and music, and that one may have knowledge of life and perfect sincerity,
and yet be unable to produce a good, truthful piece of literature, or to compose a piece of
music, or to paint a picture.

Truthfulness is in no way opposed to invention or to the exercise of the imagination. When
we say that the writer needs experience, we do not mean to intimate that his invention of character
or plot should be literally limited to a person he has known, or to an incident that has occurred,
but that they should be true to his experience. The writer may create an ideally perfect character,
or an ideally bad character, and he may try him by a set of circumstances and events never
before combined, and this creation may be so romantic as to go beyond the experience of any
reader, that is to say, wholly imaginary (like a composed landscape which has no counterpart
in any one view of a natural landscape), and yet it may be so consistent in itself, so true
to an idea or an aspiration or a hope, that it will have the element of truthfulness and subserve
a very high purpose. It may actually be truer to our sense of verity to life than an array
of undeniable, naked facts set down without art and without imagination.

The difficulty of telling the truth in literature is about as great as it is in real life.
We know how nearly impossible it is for one person to convey to another a correct impression
of a third person. He may describe the features, the manner, mention certain traits and sayings,
all literally true, but absolutely misleading as to the total impression. And this is the reason
why extreme, unrelieved realism is apt to give a false impression of persons and scenes. One
can hardly help having a whimsical notion occasionally, seeing the miscarriages even in our
own attempts at truthfulness, that it absolutely exists only in the imagination.

In a piece of fiction, especially romantic fiction, an author is absolutely free to be truthful,
and he will be if he has personal and literary integrity. He moves freely amid his own creations
and conceptions, and is not subject to the peril of the writer who admittedly uses facts, but
uses them so clumsily or with so little conscience, so out of their real relations, as to convey
a false impression and an untrue view of life. This quality of truthfulness is equally evident
in "The Three Guardsmen" and in "Midsummer Night's Dream." Dumas is as conscientious about
his world of adventure as Shakespeare is in his semi-supernatural region. If Shakespeare did
not respect the laws of his imaginary country, and the creatures of his fancy, if Dumas were
not true to the characters he conceived, and the achievements possible to them, such works
would fall into confusion. A recent story called "The Refugees" set out with a certain promise
of veracity, although the reader understood of course that it was to be a purely romantic invention.
But very soon the author recklessly violated his own conception, and when he got his "real"
characters upon an iceberg, the fantastic position became ludicrous without being funny, and
the performances of the same characters in the wilderness of the New World showed such lack
of knowledge in the writer that the story became an insult to the intelligence of the reader.
Whereas such a romance as that of "The MS. Found in a Copper Cylinder," although it is humanly
impossible and visibly a figment of the imagination, is satisfactory to the reader because
the author is true to his conception, and it is interesting as a curious allegorical and humorous
illustration of the ruinous character in human affairs of extreme unselfishness. There is the
same sort of truthfulness in Hawthorne's allegory of "The Celestial Railway," in Froude's "On
a Siding at a Railway Station," and in Bunyan's "Pilgrim's Progress."

The habit of lying carried into fiction vitiates the best work, and perhaps it is easier to
avoid it in pure romance than in the so-called novels of "every-day life." And this is probably
the reason why so many of the novels of "real life" are so much more offensively untruthful
to us than the wildest romances. In the former the author could perhaps "prove" every incident
he narrates, and produce living every character he has attempted to describe. But the effect
is that of a lie, either because he is not a master of his art, or because he has no literary
conscience. He is like an artist who is more anxious to produce a meretricious effect than
he is to be true to himself or to nature. An author who creates a character assumes a great
responsibility, and if he has not integrity or knowledge enough to respect his own creation,
no one else will respect it, and, worse than this, he will tell a falsehood to hosts of undiscriminating
readers.

THE PURSUIT OF HAPPINESS

Perhaps the most curious and interesting phrase ever put into a public document is "the pursuit
of happiness." It is declared to be an inalienable right. It cannot be sold. It cannot be given
away. It is doubtful if it could be left by will.

The right of every man to be six feet high, and of every woman to be five feet four, was regarded
as self-evident until women asserted their undoubted right to be six feet high also, when some
confusion was introduced into the interpretation of this rhetorical fragment of the eighteenth
century.

But the inalienable right to the pursuit of happiness has never been questioned since it was
proclaimed as a new gospel for the New World. The American people accepted it with enthusiasm,
as if it had been the discovery of a gold-prospector, and started out in the pursuit as if
the devil were after them.

If the proclamation had been that happiness is a common right of the race, alienable or otherwise,
that all men are or may be happy, history and tradition might have interfered to raise a doubt
whether even the new form of government could so change the ethical condition. But the right
to make a pursuit of happiness, given in a fundamental bill of rights, had quite a different
aspect. Men had been engaged in many pursuits, most of them disastrous, some of them highly
commendable. A sect in Galilee had set up the pursuit of righteousness as the only or the highest
object of man's immortal powers. The rewards of it, however, were not always immediate. Here
was a political sanction of a pursuit that everybody acknowledged to be of a good thing.

Given a heart-aching longing in every human being for happiness, here was high warrant for
going in pursuit of it. And the curious effect of this 'mot d'ordre' was that the pursuit arrested
the attention as the most essential, and the happiness was postponed, almost invariably, to
some future season, when leisure or plethora, that is, relaxation or gorged desire, should
induce that physical and moral glow which is commonly accepted as happiness. This glow of well-being
is sometimes called contentment, but contentment was not in the programme. If it came at all,
it was only to come after strenuous pursuit, that being the inalienable right.

People, to be sure, have different conceptions of happiness, but whatever they are, it is the
custom, almost universal, to postpone the thing itself. This, of course, is specially true
in our American system, where we have a chartered right to the thing itself. Other nations
who have no such right may take it out in occasional driblets, odd moments that come, no doubt,
to men and races who have no privilege of voting, or to such favored places as New York city,
whose government is always the same, however they vote.

We are all authorized to pursue happiness, and we do as a general thing make a pursuit of it.
Instead of simply being happy in the condition where we are, getting the sweets of life in
human intercourse, hour by hour, as the bees take honey from every flower that opens in the
summer air, finding happiness in the well-filled and orderly mind, in the sane and enlightened
spirit, in the self that has become what the self should be, we say that tomorrow, next year,
in ten or twenty or thirty years, when we have arrived at certain coveted possessions or situation,
we will be happy. Some philosophers dignify this postponement with the name of hope.

Sometimes wandering in a primeval forest, in all the witchery of the woods, besought by the
kindliest solicitations of nature, wild flowers in the trail, the call of the squirrel, the
flutter of birds, the great world-music of the wind in the pine-tops, the flecks of sunlight
on the brown carpet and on the rough bark of immemorial trees, I find myself unconsciously
postponing my enjoyment until I shall reach a hoped-for open place of full sun and boundless
prospect.

The analogy cannot be pushed, for it is the common experience that these open spots in life,
where leisure and space and contentment await us, are usually grown up with thickets, fuller
of obstacles, to say nothing of labors and duties and difficulties, than any part of the weary
path we have trod.

Why add the pursuit of happiness to our other inalienable worries? Perhaps there is something
wrong in ourselves when we hear the complaint so often that men are pursued by disaster instead
of being pursued by happiness.

We all believe in happiness as something desirable and attainable, and I take it that this
is the underlying desire when we speak of the pursuit of wealth, the pursuit of learning, the
pursuit of power in office or in influence, that is, that we shall come into happiness when
the objects last named are attained. No amount of failure seems to lessen this belief. It is
matter of experience that wealth and learning and power are as likely to bring unhappiness
as happiness, and yet this constant lesson of experience makes not the least impression upon
human conduct. I suppose that the reason of this unheeding of experience is that every person
born into the world is the only one exactly of that kind that ever was or ever will be created,
so that he thinks he may be exempt from the general rules. At any rate, he goes at the pursuit
of happiness in exactly the old way, as if it were an original undertaking. Perhaps the most
melancholy spectacle offered to us in our short sojourn in this pilgrimage, where the roads
are so dusty and the caravansaries so ill provided, is the credulity of this pursuit. Mind,
I am not objecting to the pursuit of wealth, or of learning, or of power, they are all explainable,
if not justifiable,--but to the blindness that does not perceive their futility as a means
of attaining the end sought, which is happiness, an end that can only be compassed by the right
adjustment of each soul to this and to any coming state of existence. For whether the great
scholar who is stuffed with knowledge is happier than the great money-getter who is gorged
with riches, or the wily politician who is a Warwick in his realm, depends entirely upon what
sort of a man this pursuit has made him. There is a kind of fallacy current nowadays that a
very rich man, no matter by what unscrupulous means he has gathered an undue proportion of
the world into his possession, can be happy if he can turn round and make a generous and lavish
distribution of it for worthy purposes. If he has preserved a remnant of conscience, this distribution
may give him much satisfaction, and justly increase his good opinion of his own deserts; but
the fallacy is in leaving out of account the sort of man he has become in this sort of pursuit.
Has he escaped that hardening of the nature, that drying up of the sweet springs of sympathy,
which usually attend a long-continued selfish undertaking? Has either he or the great politician
or the great scholar cultivated the real sources of enjoyment?

The pursuit of happiness! It is not strange that men call it an illusion. But I am well satisfied
that it is not the thing itself, but the pursuit, that is an illusion. Instead of thinking
of the pursuit, why not fix our thoughts upon the moments, the hours, perhaps the days, of
this divine peace, this merriment of body and mind, that can be repeated and perhaps indefinitely
extended by the simplest of all means, namely, a disposition to make the best of whatever comes
to us? Perhaps the Latin poet was right in saying that no man can count himself happy while
in this life, that is, in a continuous state of happiness; but as there is for the soul no
time save the conscious moment called "now," it is quite possible to make that "now" a happy
state of existence. The point I make is that we should not habitually postpone that season
of happiness to the future.

No one, I trust, wishes to cloud the dreams of youth, or to dispel by excess of light what
are called the illusions of hope. But why should the boy be nurtured in the current notion
that he is to be really happy only when he has finished school, when he has got a business
or profession by which money can be made, when he has come to manhood? The girl also dreams
that for her happiness lies ahead, in that springtime when she is crossing the line of womanhood,--all
the poets make much of this,--when she is married and learns the supreme lesson how to rule
by obeying. It is only when the girl and the boy look back upon the years of adolescence that
they realize how happy they might have been then if they had only known they were happy, and
did not need to go in pursuit of happiness.

The pitiful part of this inalienable right to the pursuit of happiness is, however, that most
men interpret it to mean the pursuit of wealth, and strive for that always, postponing being
happy until they get a fortune, and if they are lucky in that, find at the end that the happiness
has somehow eluded them, that; in short, they have not cultivated that in themselves that alone
can bring happiness. More than that, they have lost the power of the enjoyment of the essential
pleasures of life. I think that the woman in the Scriptures who out of her poverty put her
mite into the contribution-box got more happiness out of that driblet of generosity and self-sacrifice
than some men in our day have experienced in founding a university.

And how fares it with the intellectual man? To be a selfish miner of learning, for self-gratification
only, is no nobler in reality than to be a miser of money. And even when the scholar is lavish
of his knowledge in helping an ignorant world, he may find that if he has made his studies
as a pursuit of happiness he has missed his object. Much knowledge increases the possibility
of enjoyment, but also the possibility of sorrow. If intellectual pursuits contribute to an
enlightened and altogether admirable character, then indeed has the student found the inner
springs of happiness. Otherwise one cannot say that the wise man is happier than the ignorant man.

In fine, and in spite of the political injunction, we need to consider that happiness is an
inner condition, not to be raced after. And what an advance in our situation it would be if
we could get it into our heads here in this land of inalienable rights that the world would
turn round just the same if we stood still and waited for the daily coming of our Lord!

LITERATURE AND THE STAGE

Is the divorce of Literature and the Stage complete, or is it still only partial? As the lawyers
say, is it a 'vinculo', or only a 'mensa et thoro?' And if this divorce is permanent, is it
a good thing for literature or the stage? Is the present condition of the stage a degeneration,
as some say, or is it a natural evolution of an art independent of literature?

How long is it since a play has been written and accepted and played which has in it any so-called
literary quality or is an addition to literature? And what is dramatic art as at present understood
and practiced by the purveyors of plays for the public? If any one can answer these questions,
he will contribute something to the discussion about the tendency of the modern stage.

Every one recognizes in the "good old plays" which are occasionally "revived" both a quality
and an intention different from anything in most contemporary productions. They are real dramas,
the interest of which depends upon sentiment, upon an exhibition of human nature, upon the
interaction of varied character, and upon plot, and we recognize in them a certain literary
art. They can be read with pleasure. Scenery and mechanical contrivance may heighten the effects,
but they are not absolute essentials.

In the contemporary play instead of character we have "characters," usually exaggerations of
some trait, so pushed forward as to become caricatures. Consistency to human nature is not
insisted on in plot, but there must be startling and unexpected incidents, mechanical devices,
and a great deal of what is called "business," which clearly has as much relation to literature
as have the steps of a farceur in a clog-dance. The composition of such plays demands literary
ability in the least degree, but ingenuity in inventing situations and surprises; the text
is nothing, the action is everything; but the text is considerably improved if it have brightness
of repartee and a lively apprehension of contemporary events, including the slang of the hour.
These plays appear to be made up by the writer, the manager, the carpenter, the costumer. If
they are successful with the modern audiences, their success is probably due to other things
than any literary quality they may have, or any truth to life or to human nature.

We see how this is in the great number of plays adapted from popular novels. In the "dramatization"
of these stories, pretty much everything is left out of the higher sort that the reader has
valued in the story. The romance of "Monte Cristo" is an illustration of this. The play is
vulgar melodrama, out of which has escaped altogether the refinement and the romantic idealism
of the stirring romance of Dumas. Now and then, to be sure, we get a different result, as in
"Olivia," where all the pathos and character of the "Vicar of Wakefield" are preserved, and
the effect of the play depends upon passion and sentiment. But as a rule, we get only the more
obvious saliencies, the bones of the novel, fitted in or clothed with stage "business."

Of course it is true that literary men, even dramatic authors, may write and always have written
dramas not suited to actors, that could not well be put upon the stage. But it remains true
that the greatest dramas, those that have endured from the Greek times down, have been (for
the audiences of their times) both good reading and good acting plays.

I am not competent to criticise the stage or its tendency. But I am interested in noticing
the increasing non-literary character of modern plays. It may be explained as a necessary and
justifiable evolution of the stage. The managers may know what the audience wants, just as
the editors of some of the most sensational newspapers say that they make a newspaper to suit
the public. The newspaper need not be well written, but it must startle with incident and surprise,
found or invented. An observer must notice that the usual theatre-audience in New York or Boston
today laughs at and applauds costumes, situations, innuendoes, doubtful suggestions, that it
would have blushed at a few years ago. Has the audience been creating a theatre to suit its
taste, or have the managers been educating an audience? Has the divorce of literary art from
the mimic art of the stage anything to do with this condition?

